

DEWAR’S
Distillers
to
By Appointment
M.M.THe Kino.
1 o*7 TTr>-r> t
•Mm * m JK-ShM. JL JL Ij
Mining:
and Contractors’
KXPLOSIVKrt, IUULI>EIIH_
Plant, Engineers
SNETtALIRONMONGKRY.
Street, SycXxi&y,
— POR—
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NK.W SECOND-HAND FI,A NTS ALWAYS AVAII,* I'I.K.
atom, Sxj&Jx i~ M-
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Haighs Wood-
Working Machinery
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
HOBART.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 Vori St., Sydney
Take it back.
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pint Apple Brand
HAMS i
BACON.
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
Heaving from the dark lagoon,
In smouldering bronxe, the pon-
derous moon
The murky shade dismisses.
The nightingale sings sweet:
« Jug ! Jug I EAT 1 EAT I
Honey Kisses
OF ALL CONFECTIONERS.
cU/ , & cUJ{&u) u
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES. ——
Wo make it a point of never being; out of anything;. We koop large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Colls and all accessories.
Accumulators repaired and re-charg;ed by Experts. Your Orders solicited.
the: silvertown rubber company,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
I
AL
CH
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOR*
Aim,Strei\gtfu'Purit)C
MALTHOIJ) offers more
advantages than any kind
of ready-made rooting.
It lasts for years, is inex-
pensive to lay, and never
gives annoyance.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY-
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
c. A. MacDONALD,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
The best Cure for . . *
Stomach and Digestive Complaints.
IF YOU SUFFER from
Chronic Indigestion
Acute Catarrh of the Bowels
Loss of Appetite
Diarrhoea
Heartburn
Biliousness
Catarrh of the Stomach
Dyspepsia
Rachitis
you should at once test the value of Langebek’s Pepsin-Extract.
Langebek’s Preparations have been awarded : Gold Medal, Paris, 1890 ; Ist Prize in Copenhagen, 1888 ; Gold Medal, Stockholm, 1897 ; Silver Medal, Maples, 189 h ; Silver Medal, Malmd, 1896 ; Mention Honorable, Paris, 1889,
mp«lfJ OU -D^ eBcr ’P^ enres > w 'th signed testimonials from doctors, are enclosed with each bottle. We may
StTii. ol ti medical authorities such as :—Adolfo Fasano, M.D., Professor at the University, Naples;
An! Frankfort o/O; Olaf Hammarsten, Professor, tJpsala University; R. B. Lehmann,
jV.i jOfessor, Wurzburg; O. Torstensson. M.D., Mossebergs Sanatorium, Sweden; M. Lange, M.D.,
Baden ; A. Hecquet, Physician, Copenhagen ; O. Melin, M.D., Professor. Stockholm.
These medical gentlemen's endorsed recommendations will show sufferers of any of the above-mentioned disorders that it is a remedy of highest value, and speedily cures the most obstinate cases.
LANGEBEK'S EXTRACT, with 10 per cent, peps: cone: Langebek, will be posted to any address on receipt of 3s. (stamps taken) from the Sole Australian Agents:—
3- GOMMESEN & CO., De Mestre J?/ace, off 310 George Street, SYDNEY . Telephone , City 417.
LANGEBEK’S EXTRACT
helidon spa water
Taken as a Table Water neither
oppression nor depression follows .
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
VoJ.3o—No. 1527.]
[Thursday, May 20, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission hy Post as a Newspaper.


AT GEORGE ROBERTSON & GO., PROP., LTD.,
71 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY.
We are overstocked, and to reduce our immense stock are offering a number of New Books
at clearing prices. We hold no regular “ sale ” ; the last was five years since, so that
the chance now offered seldom occurs.
Skeat and Blag-den : Pagan Races of the Malay Peninsula,
2 vols., SQs for 255, postage 2s 6d.
Davitt : Fall of Feudalism in Ireland, 12s 6d for 7s 6d,
postage 9d.
Haniiay : Short History of the Royal Navy, 1217 to 1688,
7s bd for Is, postage 9d.
Kino- : Story of the British Army, 7s 6d for Is, postage 9d.
Life'of Richard J. Seddon, by Drummond, 12s 6d for 7s 6d,
postage 9d.
J. Balfour Browne : Essays, Critical and Political, 2 vols.,
18s for 9s, postage Is 6d.
Stead : Japan by the Japanese, 24s for 12s, postage Is.
Stirling: The Colonials in South Africa, 12s for 6s,
postage Is,
Huxley : Scientific Memoirs, Volume IV., 700 pages, 36s
for 12s, postage 2s.
Andrew Lang : Secret of the Totem, 12s 6d for 6s, p. 9d.
Andrew Lang-: Magic and Religion, 12s 6d for 6s, p. 9d.
Guppy : Observations of a Naturalist in the Pacific, Plant
Dispersal, 25s for 12s fid, postage Is.
Grote : History of Greece, 10 vols., 50s for 255, postagess.
Bain : Education as a Science, 5s for 3s, postage Bd.
George Eliot’s Complete Works, Library Edition ; a fine,
well printed copy, 10 vols., cloth 125 s for 62s Od,
postage 7s 6d.
Gilbert Parker and Bryan, Old Quebec, 18s for 9s,
postage Is 6d.
Statesmen’s Year Book, 1907, 12s 6d for ss, postage Bd.
Fitchett: How England Saved Europe, 4 vols., in full
leather gilt edges, 32s 6d for 12s 6d, postage 2s.
Menpe’s Whistler as I Knew Him, fully illustrated, 60s
for 255, postage 2s 6d.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers;
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
Love and the Carlyles
THE genera] public are never tired of
reading about the private affairs of
the great, for in these are exhibited
the elements of common humanity and
the extent to which the gods are mortal
more clearly than anywhere else. Car-
lyle shared the average man’s interest in
history as enlarged biography ; his desire
always was to get at the man—nr woman
—behind the events ; and he displayed
masterly art in portraying them in his
own work. Without doubt he would
have rejoiced in the love-letters of Socrates
and Xanthippe, if any had been dug up
in his time, as they would have thrown
some light on one side of the philosopher’s
character about which Plato and Xenophon
are silent. It would be only fair, in the
case of a man whose name has become
synonymous with wisdom, that all the
facts should be given, even if they showed
that the sage occasionally threw the
dishes at his wife ; and they might prove
that the lady whose name is an equivalent
for shrew, was once tender and lovable.
Carlyle himself had no wish -to
go down to posterity under false
pretences, and instructed his literary
executor to paint him “ with all the
warts,” like his hero, Oliver. Unfor-
tunately, Froude put in a few warts
that were not there, and even robbed his
subject of a beauty spot -or two. By the
publication of The Love Letters of Thomas
(Jarlyle and Jane Welsh (per Sydney Book
Club), Alexander Carlyle renders a true
service to his illustrious relative. There
can be no such objection to the printing
of this intimate correspondence between
two intellectuels whose passion seldom ran
out at the finger tips, as there was to the
Browning letters, or those which came
from the passionate heart of Keats when
in the fell clutch of disease. Browning,
in his essay prefixed to the forged Shelley
letters, makes a distinction between the
interest of a subjective poet’s biography
and that of an objective poet; the former
being essential to a proper understanding
of the poems. Now, Carlyle was a phi-
losopher who appealed to the emotions—
the antithesis of Herbert Spencer ; and a
poet writing in prose. None but an
imaginative writer could have made the
dry bones of history live as he did, and
his tremendous influence is due to the
large amount of the personality of
Thomas Carlyle he mixed with his work.
Any true light on such a character is
therefore valuable, especially as that
character has been distorted in a con-
troversy more voluminous than all the
“ chatter about Harriet,” which has been
raging since the first biography appeared.
These letters will prove a severe blow
to the supporters of Froude, as they con-
vict him of omissions and perversions of
the text of letters used by him in his
work, and they present the lover of Jane
Welsh as a more patient, devoted and
sincere man than he has been made out
to be. They also add to Jane’s reputa-
tion as a brilliant letter-writer. Carlyle’s
appreciation of her epistolary art is
shown in this extract from an early
letter :
As it is, I give you thanks from the heart
for your letter. It is quite delightful, in its
way, for me to enjoy those little peeps you
afford me here and there into your domestic
ways. I see the “ feathers ” overshadowing
your hat; I tremble at the “ four angry
notes ” inflicted on your dressmaker ; . . .
and think what I would give to hear you
practising never so “badly’’the themas of
Mozart and Beethoven. It is when letters
are thrown off in that gay, cheerful, social
way that one has some pleasure in them.
There are many of these “ peeps ” in
her letters, but they ;could only be shown
here by lengthy quotations. Jane's native
shrewdness may be fairly gauged by the
following passage from a letter written
in 1822, before love came into the cor-
respondence :
I see you do not understand how to manage
us women :no wonder !■— You ought, above
all things, to beware of seeming grateful for
any favor we may please to confer on you ;
for you must know we value our favors just
in proportion to the gratitude they are paid
with. By thanking a lady, however humbly,
for any mark of her esteem, you at once
alarm her pride, her prudence too —if ishe
happen to have any ; whereas by receiving
it with indifference you pique her vanity :
and what miracles may not that work in your
favor? Would you continue to enjoy
the sunshine of my smiles, you must
also abstain from flattery (at least of
the common sort). I have been stuffed
with adulation ever since I left the boarding-
school—(at that time I was as ugly a little
bundle of a thing as ever you set your eyes
on) ; and adulation, like sweetmeats, palls the
appetite when presented at all hours of the
day. I value one compliment to my judg-
ment above twenty to ray person (for the
latter, my glass declares to me every morn-
ing, is totally unmerited, whereas I may be
tempted to believe the former has some
foundation) ; now what mere delicate com-
pliment can you pay to any one’s judgment
than to show you esteem it inaccessible to,
flattery ? Here is a lesson for you ! See
that you profit by it !
Their relations during the early part
of the correspondence were practically
those of teacher and pupil. Thomas set
her subjects for composition, sent her
German books for translation, corrected
her exercises, discoursed on literary ques-
tions, lectured, exhorted, admonished.
In one letter he bids her to “recommence
Hume when Sismondi is finished, and
write a sonnet on every exalted character
you fall in with, and an essay on every
striking national char ge ” —a policy of
“thorough” in education which few fine
ladies would be capable of carrying out.
Jane was a good pupil, but she liked well
to be a fine lady, too ; and felt that she
had it m her to attain social eminence
much more easily than literary distinction.
Ambition was strong in her, and she ex-
claims in one letter : “ Oh, if I had your
genius ? your, learning and my own ambi-
tion, "what a brilliant figure I should
make ! ” Yet it is not true that she mar-
ried for ambition, as Froude stated. She
deserves credit for discerning the genius
lying hidden beneath the sombre exterior
of the poor and unknown young man
whom Irving had introduced to her. He
fell short of her ideal in the matter of
elegance, but her belief in his greatness
never wavered.
W . .
Heir intellect was captured before lijpr
heart, and when Carlyle wrote (1822)
doubtingly about his career, but confi-
dently of his love for her, she re-
plied with a reproof for treating lightly
that most important subject—-his own
destiny, and a Warning that he must
not indulge in too ardent expressions of
friendship. He did refrain, and nearly half
the letters are of such a character as would
make them useless in a breach of pro-
mise case. He was poor and proud, and
until he felt reasonably certain of liis
future, he restrained his ardor. In the
following year he asked her to marry
him, and she answered that she loved
him as a sister—-“ as your wife, never,
never; not though you were as rich as
Croesus, as honored and renowned as you
yet shall be.”
But Carlyle knew better. He kept
pegging away in his evenings at the
translation of Wilhelm Meister, “ with the
ferocity of a hyena.” All the while he
was on the rack of dyspepsia—“ some
days I suffer as much pain as would drive
about three Lake poets down: to Tar-
tarus ” —and his financial outlook was
rather gloomy. For the translation,
however, Carlyle got cash on the
day of publication of the first 1000
copies, for the next 1000, and
after that the book was to be his dwn
property. These were not bad terms for
an unknown Scotchman who was intro-
ducing an almost equally unknown Ger-
man to British readers. He wrote to
Jane:—“Am I a genius still? I was
intended for a horse-dealer rather.” The
prospect became brighter, and he again
broke out in lover-like expressions, and
told her:.
The only thing I know is that you are the
most delightful, enthusiastic, contemptuous,
affectionate, sarcastic, capricious, warm-
hearted, lofty-minded, half-devil, half-angel
of a woman that ever ruled over the heart of
a man ; that I will love you, must love you,
whatever may betide, till the last moment of
my existence ; and that if we both act rightly
our lot may be the happiest of a thousand,
mortal lots.
Then he wrote the Life of Schiller ,
which was fairly well paid for, and did
much towards establishing his reputation.
Jane had been impatient at the delay in
the bursting forth of his genius, and
prodded him on with mingled sarcasm
and encouragement. He, meanwhile, was
breaking down her defences, and winning
over the mother, who had been in opposi-
tion. Her love rings out sincerely in the
later letters—especially after her con-
fession that she had once passionately
loved Edward Irving, which he received
in the right spirit. When it was agreed
that they should be married, there was
much discussion as to where they should
live. Their respective mothers had to be
considered; he left it to Jane to decide,
she left it to him-; but finally he settled
the matter in his own way :
This vigorous formal statement of our own
sovereign will and pleasure carries in it
something so like Selfish ness,, that we are apt
to become selfish in our fear of being sus-
pected of it. Would you believe it, I cannot
love you in a letter of that kind. No,
Leibchen, I do not love thee at all, when
talking of houses and poverty and so forth ;
and I long to give the Letter to the Devil
and take thee in my arms, and force thee by
the very look of my eyes to say in that
wicked heart of thine that thou wilt go with
me to live.in Greenland if I like.
\l/
These two volumes are a valuable
addition to the Carlyle biography, and
also an important contribution to litera-
ture. They contain some pen pictures of
contemporaries in the biting style of the
famous account of Coleridge in John
Sterling, and Jane’s letters are good all
through. They give us a better opinion
of Carlyle, and they do no injury to the
keen-witted, acid-tongued lady who had
to suffer the penalties of marrying a
genius with dyspepsia.
The editor does not obtrude himself to
any serious extent, but. errs by excess of
helpfulness in translating or locating
every tag in the correspondence. Vox
et pretereq nihil, for instance, is fol-
lowed by its equivalent English in
brackets, and a footnote refers the reader
to “ Plutarchi Opera Moralis,” in which
the Voice that was nothing more is to be
found in its pristine beauty. An appen-
dix includes evidence to prove that Jane
was the original of Blumine in Sartor
Resarius. It would be a nice question
for a debating society to discuss—
whether Sartor liesartus would have
gained or lost in influence if written in
the direct style of Carlyle’s letters to
Jane Welsh.
" The Father of Australia”
This title, which has been given to Sir
Joseph Banks by those who have appreci-
ated the great services he rendered to the
country, was fairly earned; Cook stands
first in the regard of A ustralians— ‘ ‘ the
Columbus of our shore,” as Wentworth
calls him in his Australasia. Banks comes
next:
And thou, the foremost in fair learning’s ranks,
Patron of every art, departed Banks !
Who, wealth disdaining and inglorious ease
The rocks arid quicksands dar’d of unknown seas.
The work done by him for Australia after
his return from the voyage with Cook was
really that of one in a paternal position with
regard to the young settlement. He was in
constant correspondence with every official
of importance down to the time of Bligh,
and he was generally consulted by the
British Government on any questions relat-
ing to Australia. As president of the Royal
Society and a friend of the King his words
had weight; he was the only man of import-*
ance who knew the country, and he
was disinterestedly anxious to promote its
welfare. The history of Australia would have
been very different if such a man had not
been at hand to direct and advise during the
critical period of early settlement.
J. H. Maiden deserves thanks for gather-
ing together a mass of valuable information
in his Sir Joseph Banks (Government Printer,
Sydney), and reminding Australians of their
debt of gratitude. One of the objects of the
publication is to obtain funds for the purpose
of establishing a memorial—such as a statue.
The book itself serves as a handy memorial
of Banks. It is not a continuous narrative ;
but rather a compilation of materials for a
biography ; and makes a most useful supple-
ment to Hooker’s edition of Banks’ “Jour-
nal. The book is close packed with facts
which must have taken an immense amount
of labor to collect. Its value is greatly
enhanced by the particulars given of other
men connected with Banks, such as Solander,
and by the numerous illustrations. Every
Australian who cares about his country
ought to know something about the men
who helped to make it, and Banks was one
of the best.
The Poet
“Anyone who has ever trusted himself
knows that knowledge is in the air ; and
that in brooding, in loafing, in living, know-
ledge is absorbed by, the pores of the body.
The eyes and the ears are the main thorough-
fares of knowledge, but there are many by-
ways intractable to sight and hearing, devious
and erratic in supposition, but as marked
and inevitable as the seemingly wanton paths
of fish in the river or of birds in the air.
The body, the whole body, is also the soul.
It is the nerves, the heart, the liver, the seed
that apprehend and think and feel. The
seat of memory is probably in the muscles.
The brain is only a register and sifter—at. the
highest, an alembic. Imagination gatliers
the flower of the whole anatomy. It is
in this that the poet differs from the
thinker, with whom it is the habit
sometimes to confound him. A thinker
is one who has permitted his brain, the chief
servant of his soul, to get the upper hand,
just as the epicui’e gives the reins of power
to his palate. In the poet, the whole
assembly of his being is harmonious ; no
organ is master ; a diapason extends through-
out the entire scale ; his whole body, his
whole soul is rapt into the making of his
poetry. Every poet is a new experiment;
all poetry is empirical. And this is simply
saying over again that there is such a thing
as poetry, and that poets are born into the
world. A poet is always a man of inordinate
ambition and of inordinate vanity. In his
heart he says, ‘ I want my poetry to be
remembered when Homer and Darite and
Shakespeare are forgotten.’ ”
(From “A Rosary ” by John Davidson.)
THE LAST JOURNEY.
I left the world a-spinnihg on its nave,
I felt it sheering blindly round the sun ;
I felt the time had come to find a grave :
1 knew it in tny heart my days were dune.
I took my staff in hand ; I took the road,
And wandered out to seek my last-abode.
Hearts of gold and hearts of lead
Sing it yet in sun and rain,
“ Heel and toe from dawn to dusk.
Round the world and home again.”
0 long before the here was steeped for malt,
And long before the grape was crushed for wine,
The glory of the march without a halt,
The triumph of a Stride like yours and mine
Was known to folk like us, who walked about,
To be the sprightliest cordial out and out !
Folk like us, with hearts that beat,
Sang it, too, in-sun and rain—
“ Heel and toe from dawn to dusk,
- Round the world and home again.”
Mv feet are tjeavy now, but on 1.g0,,
My head erect beneath the tragic years.
The way is steep, but I would have it so ;
And dusty, but I lay the dust with tears,
Though none can see me weep : alone I climb
The rugged path that leads me out of time—
Out of time and out of all,
Singing yet in sun and rain,
“ Heel and toe from dawn to dusk,
Round the world and home again.”
Farewell the hope that mocked, farewell despair
That went before me still and made the pace.
The earth is full of graves, and mine was there
Before my life began, my resting-place ;
And I shall find it out, and with the dead
Lie down for ever, all my sayings said—
Deeds all done and songs all sung,
While others ehant in sun and rain,
“ Heel and toe from dawn to dusk.
Round the world and home again.”
(From “ The Testament of John Davidson.”)
Cabled recently that John Davidson was missing from
his home, and it is presumed that he is dead.


JL
B
No. 772— 9 ct. Cold Fancy Oval Brooch,
“Best Wishes,” 7/6.
No. 426 — 9ct. Cold Brooch, “ Mizpah ” centre,
Chain and Bell attaclied, 7/6.
No. 377— 9 ct. Oval Shape Brooch, Ruby in
centre, Scroll set with Pearls, 8/-
No. 331— Onyx Brooch, mounted in Gold, 12/6
No. 255— 9 ct. Fancy Twist-Bar Brooch, Bird
centre, set Pearls, Chain and Amethyst
Heart attached, £l.
High-Grade JEWELLERY
... AT ...
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
Gentlemen’s Gold and Silver Alberts.
Our assortment is most extensive, the prices almost as various. The illustrations represent popular designs
of Alberts, which are available in both Gold and Silver, in the patterns shown, at the prices quoted in the
following list: —
Silver Alberts, Single Chain, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6. Silver Alberts, Double Chain, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/-
Cold Alberts, Double Chain, 9ct., 65/-, 70/-, 75/-, 80/-, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-
Gold Alberts, Double Chain, 15ct., 105/-, 125/-, 135/-, 147/-, 160/-, 185/-, 200/-, 250/-, 280/-
The difference in price indicates the difference in weight and workmanship.
No. 410— 9 ct. Double-Bar, Secret Motto
Brooch, Gem-set Heart in centre, 15/-
m
No. 40S— 9ct. Wishbone Brooch, Bar and Fly
in centre, set 9 Pearls and 1 Kuby, 12/6.
No. 220 — 9ct. Cold Brooch, serrated edge,
both ends tastefully engraved, with any
name. 6/- ; smaller size, 4/6.
No. 393 — 9ct. Cold Brooch, Gem set, Pearls
and Amethysts or Topaz, 27/6.
m
No. 395- 9ct. Cold Bar Brooch, set with
Pearls and Sapphires, Chain and Bell
attached, 9/6.
Our Illustrated Departmental Price
Lists place three-quarters of a
million pounds’ worth of the world’s
choicest commodities at the com-
mand of patrons all over Australia.
Write for copies, posted free on
application, and reap the full bene-
fit of our unique system of spot
cash trading.
%
Back of Open Case.
Novelties in Watches
Ladies’ Fancy Enamelled Fan-shape Watches,
as illustrated, Ruby, enamelled in colors, novel
and artistic designs. The movement is highly
finished, Gold Balance, fully jewelled. A reliable
timekeeper.
Hunting Case .... £3/7/6.
Open Face £3.
Oxidised Steel Buttonhole Watch.
The latest novelty in Ladies’ Watches. Gold
balance, extra jewelled, superior finish through-
out and a perfect timekeeper, 31/6.
Hunting' Case. Various designs.
The prevailing modes are artisti.-ally
presented in our Winter Fashion
Portfolio. The Illustrations embrace
the latest styles in Elegant Reception
Dresses, Smart Model Costumes,
Novelties in Blouses and Skirts, as
well as the newest productions in
Millinery, Dainty Footwear. Send
for a copy, posted free on request.
No. 394 — 9ct. Cold Bar Brooch, Harp in centre,
Chain and Shamrock attached ; motto. 8/6.
am
jam
<«>
©
No. 292 — Greenstone Brooch, mounted in 9ct. Gold,
Kiaora and N.Z. Fern across centre, 17/6.
Oct. Cold Double Bar Brooch, Pearl Crescent, Ruby
Centre, Chain and Bell attached, 15/6.
The Fenchurch Non-Magnetic Lever.
The Fenchurch Non-Magnetic Lever
is a High-Grade Open Face .Keyless
Watch for men, and one that will stand
hard wear and rough usage.
The Fenchurch is an accurate time-
keeper, has Compensation Balance, is
fully jewelled and well finished in Dust
and Waterproof Case, fitted either with
Screw Bezel and Back, or Hinge and
Snap Cases.
Nickel Silver Case - - 14/-
Cun Metal .... 15/-
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
Anthony Horderns’ Jewel-
lery Price List saves sovs.
Send for a copy, posted
free.
Cent’s Non-Magnetic Sirdar Lever,
fully jewelled, Compensating- Balance,
Engine-turned Sterling Silver Hunter,
a good, serviceable Watch, excellent
timekeeper 37/6
With Open Face - - - 30/-
Open Face, Gun Metal Case - 18/6
Open Face, Nickel Case - - 16/6
Nickel Hunter Case - - 22/6
The Mentor Nickel Lever Watch, a
serviceable timekeeper at a nominal
cost 5/6
Top Quality at Bottom
Price is the golden rule
at the New Palace Em-
porium.
No. 674—Partly Open.
No. 674— Silver Combination Match Box and Sovereign Purse, Hall-marked, to hold 5 Sovs., 21/
9ct. Cold Combination Match Box and Sovereign Purse, Hall-marked, Plain, to hold 5 Sovs., 80/-
Engraved, to hold 5 Sovs., 90/-
9ct. Cold Match Boxes, 46/-, 62/-, 70/-, 75/-
No. 674 —Closed.
No. 30— 9 ct. Gold Double Bar Brooch, oblonj
centre, set 1 stone, 11/-
No. 149— 9 ct. Fancy Twist Bar Brooch,
Heart in centre, 4/6
No. 249— 9 ct. Gold-mounted Tusk Brooch,
Gold Chain and Gre.-nstone Heart Drop
attached, 11/6
No. 392 9ct. Gold Crescent Brooch, imitation Rubies
or Sapphires and Rose Diamonds, 21/-
No. 768 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding Bracelet,
medium size, 70/-
No. 389— 9 ct. Gold-Mounted Tusk Brooch, Mizpah, Chain and Bell attached, 22/6
No. 391— 9 ct. Bar Brooch, Thistle in centre,
Chain and Thistle attached, 10/6
No. 769—9 ct. Cold Patent Expanding Bracelet,
large size, 80/-, 85/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON S Co. Ltd.
\
Sydney’s Leading Skin Salesmen .
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
S YDNB "ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES. TALLOW, and MAKSUFIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Ag-ents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asiurig :
(1) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books. .
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and C a 1 11 e—C aus e s,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. i>r.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 '6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter W riter, 1 /-.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
to
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced - from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing- some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free. Bd.
Thk Above Two. Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
cata F re™ es 201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £,900.000,
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO COMPETITIOKT.
WINES ne Bed onlv ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
W Ride only
BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free-
J. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham'
England.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘FRUIT salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
C AOTION. - Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘ FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sinccrcst form of flattery —IMITATION.
Prepared only by 3. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Underwear
Made in
England
TRADe
yv
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswoo) and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Draoers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only:
I. & R. MORLEY and UEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ ME. INO UNDERWEAR
WITH
ENHANCED
FIELD-GLASSES
STEREOSCOPIC
EFFECT.
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL
SPORT.
STALKING.
_ Distance between
? Oculars. 3L
Increased
distance between Objectives.
Features:—
Brilliant
Definition,
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity,
Mechanical
Precision,
I Stability,
[ Tropic Proof.
Obtainable
from all
pa Opticians.
NEW MODELS.
CARL ZEISS, JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH-29, Margaret St.,
Regent St., London, England.
New
Catalogue
T 78
Post Free.
DIGESTIVE ORGANS
DISARRANGED.
SLEEPLESSNESS.
Mr. James Bell, bootmaker, of 16 Parramatta-
road, Petersham, is not one of the fortunate ones
•who escaped the invasion of influenza, which was
experienced in this country afew years ago. Speak-
ing on the subject to our reporter, Mr. Bell said :
“Influenza is a complaint that has singled me
out for attention more than once, as I had an
attack when living in New Zealand, and again in
this country. If there is anything worse for com-
pletely making a wreck of a man, I would like to
know what it is. So far as I am concerned, it
made a thorough hash of my health, and a pretty
tough time I had before I made any headway
against it. The heavy burning pains in my head
were something terrible, for they had the effect of
making me so despondent that I could find no
pleasure in life at all. If a man’s head is not clear
and free from pain, all the money in the world
would not make him happy, and I was far from
it, believe me. As each day dawned, so were
those wretched aches in attendance, as if for the
purpose of casting a gloom over my life. IMy mouth
was dry and parched, and there waO a fever-
ishness right through my body, which was most
distressing. Not one of ray limbs was free from
aches of a very tiresome nature —aches that were
positively painful, and when I stood upon my feet
my legs felt as if they would collapse beneath me.
Together with these discomforts was a feeling of
restlessness which served to intensify my unhappi-
ness, for I could not rest contented anywhere for
any length of time, and completely exhausted my-
self in moving about from place to place.”
“It would not take much exertion to tire you,
and vou’d be glad to get to bed at night? ”
“Well, for all the sleep I got, I might just as
well have been up and about, for that was one of
the peculiarities of my sickness. Although I felt
so feeble and tired that I could have dropped any-
where, yet when I retired to rest I found much
difficulty in getting to sleep. And I had gone on
’u a very bad way for a considerable time when I
happened to be put on to a medicine that altered
the whole aspect of my affairs. An old employer
of mine from Melbourne saw me one day and
explained how ill he had been from the same com-
plaint as mine, and said that he had been quite
fixed up by Clements Tonic, at tne same time
strongly urging me to get some.”
“ And you put bis advice into effect?”
“ I am pleased to say 1 did, and I consider it
about the best step I ever took in my life, for the
unpleasantness I was laboringunder began to vanish
from that date. I don’t think I said anything
about the dizzy feelings I used to have when my
head seemed to spin round like a top, neither did
I mention the unsettled state of my nerves, which
hnd become quite unhinged, and my appetite had
left me long ago. And the longer my sufferings
existed the greater the feeling of depression became
The lowness of spirits was something terribly
and I hadn’t enough energy to try and Shake it
off. Sickness always fetches one down, and, my
word, it succeeded in doing so in my ease. My
digestive organs were altogether disarranged, too,
in consequence of which I endured no end of dis-
comfort after swallowing any nourishment. Pains
affected me about the shoulders and the loins, and
in the chest there was an unusual heaviness that
testified to the undigested condition of my food.
But I came to the turn in the road when I began
to employ Clements Tonic, which is easily the
best medicine I have ever had any experience
with. And I think that, as influenza and the
other ailments I suffered from are so frequently
encountered, it is only my duty to tell my fellow
citizens how they can be cured, as I was
Clements Tonic is the thing. It added strength
to my enfeebled system with each dose, it invigor-
ated my nerves in a way that astonished me; it
brought sleep to my hitherto restless nights; it
provided the appetite that enabled me to eat; and,
finally, it restored my internal organs to that state
of healthfulness which enabled me to digest what-
ever food I did take. Report these facts for
others’ good.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION. •
I, JAMES BELL, of 716 Parramatta Road, Petersham,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness arid cuif"
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my Rill permission
to publish in any way my I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at
day of March, one thousand
before me,
3]
Petersham, this eighteenth
nine hundred and eight,
ALEX. SMITH, J.P.


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor.' That’s
what every one does who uses
this splendid
preparation
for the hair.
If you don’t
want to
praise it, then
you must not
use it. You see,
you will be so pleased
with it that you will
just have to tell your
friends all about it.
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle houglu of us. Your
money in full refunded with ut qui stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cyeties,
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
model's &3afO to <£9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Kim brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee eafe delivery.
APTIMC Ape MVC wanted in each district.
HU I IVC fluCll I O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our miec'ol offer on sample machine.'
MEAD CYCLE CO Dept. 280 Liverpool.
r tnHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin'. The twp represent the
<• iinnlete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
lihokseflers tipd agents of the World. Office: 214
Oeurge Street, Sydney.
Mrs barber who tells the story.
The story told by sufferers
from chest trouble who turn
for relief to SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, is always a story of
striking- benefit. Mrs. Edith
A. Barber, 2 Pine Street,
Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W.,
writes (May 1908)-: “I have
'derived great benefit from
the use of SCOTT’S Emulsion.
•I was suffering from a severe
4Cold on my chest, and two
bottles of SCOTT’S cured me.”
A trial of SCOTT’S Emulsion
will convince you cf its power
to cure you just as quickly,
(which othec emulsions (which
never have the strength of
SCOTT’S) cannot do.
Of all chemists and dealers in medicines.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CURE!
m
pnQ"
?TH
LUNCS
THE.
CARfc
HRO«T
SEftSES
RESULT OF SCIENCE
Bonningtons is a special process
for compounding Carrageen or Irish Moss
(Chrondrus Crispus), obtained from the
West Coast of Ireland. The Irish Moss
in its crude state has many uses but it
was left to that skilful chemist —George
Bonnington—to so combine this product
with other ingredients to p oduce the
splendid chest medicine known as—
This remedy has a world wide reputation ior the cure of Coughs and Colds
and Affections of the Chest, Throat and Lungs. It has been in constant use
for upwards of 45 years. The most persistent cough will yield to its influence
and be permanently cured. It has proved its worth to other people—let it
do so for you.
PRICE 1/6 & 2/6 PER BOTTLE.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
JK CLASS Opr
Halted mil'K
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
; delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples- 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
DEVELOP
BUST!
A painfully thin
woman is placed at
a great disadvan-
tage nowadays. No
woman now need
stay thin and un-
developed.
[2
\ '
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD
is a natural tissue builder, a scientific bust
developer, that will add five pounds to your
weight weekly, and adds inches to your
measurements. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE “ FLESH-FOOD ” CO.,
Dspt. 5,
Linden Corin',
Castlereagh St. ,
SYDNEY
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL.
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bsurke St., Melbourne.
üblquitouS'
AND
./UNIFORM
....
•*
IF YOU
A CROESUS
with all the wealth of the world
behind you, you could not purchase
a whisky of a more delicate flavour
or greater purity than
the whisky which ha c been aptly
described as unique, übiquitous, and
uniform. The whole production of
the oldest, farthest north Distillery in
Scotland is reserved to maintain the
superior qualities of 0.0. (Old Orkney),
and as the proprietors of this distillery
always hold a io years’ supply in their
own bonded store you can always rely
on getting 0.0. with just the same
delightful flavour and exquisite aroma,
no matter in what part of the world
you may be.
If you have cr>y difficulty in
obtaining 0.0. please write
direct to the di tillery giving
name of your usual store.
j. & j. McConnell, Ltd.
Sirnmness ristillery,
ORKNEY, SCOTLAND
“Pi-BSMOM is tno
BEST part of Nature’s
BEST food — WIIL.K,
and iacreas-s food
value enormously.”
— Lancet .
DELICIOUS
COCOA
TENFOLD NUTRIMENT
PLASMON is USED
by the
ROYAL- FAMILY.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, Gd. The Bulletin Office.
rriE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
r
CAPTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
■ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Here's a Bargain I
This Nkw
FASHIONABLE MOUNT—
TW O TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Hunch /
Post Free, “
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
V TIPPED WITH WHITE,
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Illustrated Price List Free.
Pale Blue Bead Necklets, 1/- Each*
The very Newest Novelties. Worth more than
twice the money. Only a limited quantity in stock.
Write early if you wish to secure one.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP
Mention Tiif/Bulletix.
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourko and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nocturne.
In the silent night the towers
Chiming half-past two;
Only earth’s unspotted flowers
Now may speak with you !
I have put white roses now
By your cool white bed ;
Dead is passion’s burning vow,
Dead are roses red.
Memory’s dotted with the graves
Of friendships false as Hell,
Men you loved maybe were knaves,
Yet they loved you well.
What false phantom lured you through
Gates of misery? /y
I would lead you back unto
Hills of Arcady.
Lead you to the wells of life,
Bid you drink anew ;
Passion’s tyranny and strife
Crushed the heart of you.
Beautiful ideals are lost
Gaining womanhood,
Youth hath never reckoned cost,
Nay, nor understood.
Never known that gems are base,
Measured by her worth.
Giving all an l;our to grace
For the lords of earth.
Yielding for her dear love’s sake,
Trusting though he lie ;
Soon, too soon your heart must break,
Soon red roses die !
White dawn cometh ; do not weep
For sad ways you trod,
Glide in dreams and fall asleep
Halfway on to God.
You’ve no poverty to hide,
Good gods understand ;
Sleep ! . . . awaken glorified,
Touched by pitying hand.
No sound falleth save the towers
Chiming half-past two ;
Only these unspotted flowers
Now may watch o’er you !
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
Wanted—a Gun.
A'Tnoment, please, Mr. Senator—
Not interrupting your fun—
There’s something I’ve been waiting for;
I’d like to get hold of a gun !
We’re tired of hearing endless talk
While a patient people wait,
And menacing foemen strut and stalk
With armaments up-to-date.
A murmur across the seas I hear
That speaks of a brewing storm ;
And I want a gun and <i bandolier
Much more than a uniform.
We shall not our obligations shirk.
We’re ready to hold our lands,
If you’ll get some factories fit for work
With skilled Australian hands.
Wi.th shores exposed to the three great seas,
Not the fleets of the world avail;
In the old-world hives are restless bees, 1
Whose honey grows scant and stale.
Lest our coveted land should quake with fear
When bees of the old-world swarm.
Have ready our gun and bandolier—
Not toys and a uniform.
The cost’s a trifle, as such things go,
Not the half of a single ship ;
We are ready and apt, as all men know,
And true in the eye and grip.
And when comes a foeman to our gate,
We’ll meet him without a fear—
If we carry a rifle up-to-date
And a well-filled bandolier.
So hurry along, Mr. Senator,
The action is up to you ;
You know quite well what we’re waiting for,
And what are you going to do ?
You’ll likely go wild in a fussy fear,
Arid lose your head in a storm ;
So get us a rifle and bandolier,
And we’ll fake up a uniform.
We can’t go out, the protecting ones,
With the few little arms we’ve got.
We. want a stock of a million guns
And any amount of shot.
So hurry along, Mr. Senator,
Lest you leave it till quite too late ;
It is cartridge-belts we are waiting for,
And guns that are up-to-date.
I regret to have to persist in this.
And encroach on your simple fun,
But really, the point you seem to miss,
And really, I WANT A, GUN !
With ominous sounds unpleasantly near,
And signs of a brewing storm,
J want a (fan anda bandolier—
lib-Mowed to.the uniform ! - -
vrcro'iUA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


JsBS&
■4iu4
BW
THE CEILINGS
THAT SHOW-
GOOD TASTE
A MODERN
DEVELOPMENT OF
INTERIOR DECORATION.
When you use Wunderlich Metal Sheets for the Ceilings and Wall-linings
you ensure a perfectly artistic finish to a room, and the man in the
country has just as much opportunity of worhing out a pleasing scheme
as his city friend.
1 he sheets are easily fixed, fire-proof, permanent and will not crach
or discolor. The freight on them is light, too.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which explains
the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms;
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms)
243 COLLINS ST.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
.'ll- is
* * Vy *r V.-V if.
i - •»• v *• \» 5
*.-\S
CLOSED AS COUCH.
site-**
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
E
*5OOO 0-Q
\irs
<\_Sl-
U
>c
uV
o<?y
p L4T£
Vhtr
:7®
If we COULD MAKE YOU UNDERSTAND
that we WANT TO SEND YOU AN AB=
SOLUTE GIFT, you would READ EVERY
WORD OF THIS ADVERTISEMENT,
and answer it AT ONCE.
Send us your Name and Address and we will send
you, FREE, an exquisite Gold-finislied Merry Widow
Brooch. We do this to advertise our Aluminium Egg
Separators, 12 of which we send you with the Brooch
to sell for us at fid. each. Return us the money
collected, and we will send you, FREE, the premi-
ums you choose
big illustrated
sent with the
from our
U I’rize 11st,
Separators,
guaranteed or
Every prize
money refunded.
Never before
gat h e re d to-
array of beauti-
tive Premiums,
or is made of
all metals, Alu-
celient value for
After receiving
leave one with
has there been
gether such an
ful and distinc-
The Egg Separa-
that lightest of
minium, has ex-
Cd., sell son sight.
thel2Separators
each of your 12
neighbours—tell them to try it. You call next day,
if they find it satisfactory they buy one. if not, they
return it to you; in this way the Separator Sells
itself. Were our Separators not what we claim of
them, we would not ask you to leave them on trial in
this way. Minors must not apply unless with parents
consent. We send the Beautiful Merry Widow Brooch
FREE! with the 12 Separators. Write at once,
before others get ahead of you. This is at least worth
investigating, as there is no money required.
ALUMINIUM MANUFACTURING COY.,
346 George Street, SYDNEY.
Warehouse: Rear Bank of Australia.
USE
WELSBACH
MANTLES
Ruberoid
J
•m
CcH?i )
SSN>»-
m
u.
LT
SL*
1
as
r^v=
ss?
C3*iS.
Vi
gpjj
Wff
tE
«=>
FOR ALL BUILDINGS
The Roofing of which every foot is Guaranteed
E .Rich & C° l“ ° svdnev & Brisbs
To have
your roof
last use
RUBEROID
ROOFING
first.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1527.
THURSDAY, MAY 20, 1909.
Pkick Gn
AN OLD STORY REVIVED.
The ARGU S in an article re the decline of litigation deplores “the lack of that spirit which impelled John Hampden to fight the ship money
case without a compromise.”
The mention of John Hampden suggests an up-to-date historical picture of England’s sturdy patriot refusing to pay his ship money.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maoltcod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum . ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By vending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Howto Address Bettors.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
snpersaiption for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
insufficiently, stamped, letters are liable, to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, &r Neivspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
ai'e observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
■desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in rtlncle and. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Xeivs Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
XJ.S.A.—lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Neivspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Sjiecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6§in. x thin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
ffluT^xilZetz/Ti.
THURSDAY, MAY 20, 1909.
THE STRAIGHT ROAD.
Mr. Fisher, in reply, said he was happy to hear the
statements of the League, which was formed, he took it,
for a definite purpose. As regards Mr. Newland’s state-
ment, that no other route would be so good as the one advo-
cated by the League for the opening of the best country
between Oodnadatta and Pine Creek, he contended that
if that were so there would be no objection to leaving the
discovery of the best route to experts. He understood
that the main contention of the League was that where
the best land was it should be tapped by the suggested
railway. . . . They knew only too well the losses which
had been incurred over its administration ; and South
Australia was to be congratulated upon the way in which
she had met every increasing deficit in the management
of the country. For that reason the State deserved con-
sideration. At the same time ha thought one defect in
the agreement for taking over the Territory was the cast-
iron condition concerning the way in which the railway
must be constructed. In the interests, not only of South
Australia, but of all the other States, it would have been
'better if that had not been insisted upon. He had sun-
iported actively the survey of the transcontinental rail-
way tow’ards Westralia, and he w'ould equally support
ithe proposal for a thorough investigation of the routes to
,i he Territory, so that they could discover which was the
ibest one.— Daily paper.
The Australian Railways and Territory League—
ithat S.A.-Westralian institution which is trying
ito put life into the old deadness of the movement
to build the two transcontinental railways and to
■open up and settle the Northern Territory—called
jin recently upon Prime Minister Fisher and found
him the same old Fisher. Despite his outward
aspect of cast-iron firmness opportunism seems to
be one of Andrew Fisher's strong characteristics.
He gave the League smooth sayings and graceful
platitudes, but, all the same, he offered it very
little satisfaction. He fully recognised (in
platitudes) the immense service which South Aus-
tralia had done to the Commonwealth by shoulder-
ino' the burden of the Lost Province when New
South Wales abandoned it, and Queensland would
have none of it, and when it seemed in a fair way
to become an appanage of Calcutta or some such
place, and be run on purely nigger principles.
Rich as the Northern Territory is, S. A. couldn’t
raise the money on its own oredit to make its
riches accessible ; for want of railways, gold-mines
that go 2oz. to the ton are a dead loss ; and it is
no use putting in crops, for it would cost twice the
value of the wheat or cotton to cart or bullock-
dray it to market. Therefore the Territory has
been for 40 years a huge burden on the
shoulders of the little S. A. community, and it was
the action of S.A. in carrying that burden which
made White Australia possible, which made the
Commonwealth possible, and which made Fisher
possible as Prime Minister of the Commonw 7 ealth.
In a general way, Mr. Fisher recognised all these
things, and he considered that S.A. was entitled
to some reward. But he declined to say definitely
that the reward might not be the diversion of the
Territory railway into the Eastern States, and
the exclusion of S.A. from any share of the Terri-
tory’s commerce—in short, that the reward might
not be a huge and incredible act of ingratitude.
• * * *
Fisher’s hint that S.A. should transfer the
Northern Territory to the Commonwealth without
any stipulation as to the direction of the trans-
continental railway, and should leave the choice of
the best route to “experts” is plausible, but it
isn’t good enough. To quote one glaring reason
why it isn’t good enough, Fisher offers no guar-
antee, nor can he offer any, that the best route
would be adopted after the experts had decided
on it. The best site for the Federal capital was
selected by an expert —at least, an expert was
appointed, and he declared a certain site to be the
best. And that site was thrown overboard to
make way for one which the expert didn’t recom-
mend—which no expert recommended —simply
because the bad site was nearer to Sydney. Also
the name of the Prime Minister who hastened to
accept, without further question, the proposal to
throw over the best site and the decision of the
trusted expert, in order to placate the Congested
Population party, was Andrew Fisher. With
such a warning and example before it, the South
Australian Government would be a very casual
and affable Government indeed if it put any faith
in Fisher’s proposition.
•*•*•**
Furthermore, a great deal would depend upon
who the experts were, and on what rules were
laid down for their guidance. They might be
parish-minded experts who considered the best
route the one which would do the most good to
the largest number of the people who are here
now ; and that would simply mean that the first
consideration would be the finding of the best
possible excuse for bringing all the benefits of the
resurrection of the Territory to Sydney and Mel-
bourne, where most of the present people are.
That is the Congested Population policy—the
policy of greasing the fat hog—which tends to
make Sydney and Melbourne the two most
bloated cities on earth in proportion to the popu-
lation behind them, and to so hinder settle-
ment in the far-out places that most of
this continent remains a wilderness. As
already mentioned, it was on that Congested
Population policy that Yassberra was chosen
as a Federal capital site. The clamor was
to the effect that, because the county of Cum-
berland, in which Sydney is situated, is
already the most densely peopled part of the
country, therefore the population which the estab-
lishment of a Federal capital must bring together
should be planted as near as possible to this most
bloated spot in order to bloat it still more. When
the best place for a capital was held to be any
old, dry locality where its presence would
help to make the biggest city of the continent still
bigger, it is almost certain that, assuming the
decision to be left to the same people, the best
route for a transcontinental railway would be
held to be the one which helped most effect-
ively towards the same bloating process.
Then a great deal would depend on whether
the experts were good Australians or mere State
Frights. In one case they would regard it as
an advantage that the straight line would lie
Federal property from sea to sea, and in the
other case they would not. In short, before S.A.
entertains any idea of leaving the selection of a
route for the transcontinental line to “ experts ” it
ought to know : (1) Will the experts be loaded ?
(2) Will the Congested Population party simply
throw their recommendations aside if they don’t
suit the aims and ambitions of the Congested
Population party? In this matter it is well to
remember that Prime Minister Fisher is a
Queenslander. And it was from Queensland
that there came the first demand that the pro-
posed transcontinental railway southward from
Port Darwin should be dragged away from its
natural and original purpose, as a Federal line
built to open up a proposed Federal territory
and make it a profitable Federal speculation, and
that it should be converted into a Federal line
that would abandon the Federal Territory in
order to improve purely State property.
* * * *
There are many reasons in favor of the straight
line from Port Darwin, in the Northern Terri-
tory, to Port Augusta, in S.A., and these reasons
have been expounded many times. Still it may
be worth while to mention a few of them again :
(1) It is the route that was selected by “experts” as
being the best, and Prime Minister Fisher seems to have
a great regard for “ experts.” “Experts” have been at
work on this special job for about two generations.
(2) It is the shortest route, consequently the cheapest
to build and work. As the crow flies the distances are as
follows: —
Port Darwin to Melbourne .. 19S8 miles
~ ~ Sydney .. .. 1960 ~
~ ~ Newcastle .. 1954 „
~ ~ Brisbane .. -1784 ~
~ Albany .. .. 1679 ~
~ ~ Adelaide .. 1659 ~
~ ~ Fremantle .. 1568 ~
~ ~ It ckhampton .. 1505 ~
ff „ Port Augusta . . 1472 ~
(3) It is the only route by which the Commonwealth
can own the railway from sea to sea, and also own the
ports at each end of the line. The S.A. Government is
willing to sell to the Commonwealth the bit of trans-
continental railway which lies within S.A. territory, and
to transfer to it the harbor of Port Augusta. If the
straight line is adopted, the whole transcontinental rail-
way and the two terminal ports will be Federal property,
and the entire business will be under one management.
If the line is deviated into the Eastern States, the Com-
monwealth will own part of the railway and the port at
one end of the railway, while the other part of the rail-
way and the port at the other end will be under State
control. And divided control is calculated to impair
efficiency.
(4) By following the straightest possible line, the
Federal railway wijl go right through the middle of the
Federal territory, and thus do its best to open up and
make profitable'the Federal property. And it would
be a strange and loony proceeding for the Commonwealth
to take over the Northern Territory and then build a
railway that would take the shortest possible cut out of
the Territory, and leave the Federal property just about
as useless and undeveloped as it was before. -
(5) In the centre of Australia there is a great,oasis—the
only oasis in a big dry land. The Macdonnell Ranges rise
and stick their peaks into the sky right in the middle of
this continent. Out of these ranges flow the Finke and
other considerable rivers, which could be used for irriga-
tion purposes to fit the land for close settlement.. In the
country immediately around the Macdonnell Ranges
there is room for one or two million people to settle and
live in comfort. The railway line, as marked out along
the shortest possible track from Port Darwin to Port
Augusta, would pass through this region, and make it
available for settlement; and towns and cities would
grow up there; and J. C. Williamson would build
theatres there, and send his opera company along regu-
larly. To divert the line from this country in order to
carry it through the long, dry, flattened, plains of
Western Queensland and Western N.S. W, would set the
progress of Australia back a century.
In this matter The Bulletin holds a brief for the
Empty Spaces of Australia —for the planes where
people ought to be, rather than for those where
people are already. It believes in Decentralisation
rather than in Congestion. It advocated, first
of all, a Federal capital in the Macdonnell
Ranges, or on the Katherine River in the
Northern Territory, on the ground that the
Federal city would bring together a great
population, and that population ought to be
brought together where it was most wanted not
where it was least wanted. When the Congested
Population party carried its point, and it was
decided, on the principle of greasing the fat hog.
that the Federal capital must be in N.S. W.
because the largest population was already con-
centrated there, this paper took up the case for
Monaro —partly on account of its natural advantj
ages, partly because the “expert” who was
appointed to report on capital sites decided that it
was the best site, and partly because The Bulletin
holds a brief for the Empty Spaces, and de-
sires to see settlement pushed forward where
settlement is most needed. For very similar
reasons, it holds a brief for the straight transcon-
tinental line from Port Darwin to Port
Augusta. Even if it were proved (which
it lias not been) that the straight line would
go through rather worse country than the proposed
deviation into Queensland, N.S.W., and Victoria,
The Bulletin would hold that brief all the same.
It is better to make the best we can of the inferior
inland country than to stick to the policy of
bloating two big coastal cities, and crowding all
the possible population into the extreme south-
eastern corner of the continent.
* * * *
The Bulletin is perfectly well aware that the
voting power is against it in this matter. On the
simple theory that everything should be brought
to “ our city ” or “ our State,” there will be over
3,000,000 votes for dragging the transcontinental
railway round at great needless length a.nd cost to
Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, against about
400,000 votes for taking it by its natural course
straight across the continent. The fact that the
deviation would leave the Northern Territory
undeveloped and neglected isn’t likely to count in
such a case. And if the selection of the best
route is left to “experts,” there will be over
3,000,000 reasons why the experts appointed should
be the sort who will find that the best route is
through the Eastern States, against less than
400,000 reasons why they should find that it lies
where it really does lie. Further, if the “experts ”
should decide in favor of the straight line, Mr.
Fisher has the same reason for discovering that
they were wrong as. he had for discovering that the
expert was wrong who recommended Monaro as
the best Federal capital site, when the Congested
Population crowd demanded that his recom-
mendation should be disregarded in the Con-
gested Population interest. Looking back on
that Federal capital episode, it would be wise for
South Australia to look with great doubt on Mr.
Fisher’s “experts.”
THE CASE FOR POSTEEITY.
It [The Bulletin] never wearies telling Australians
that it is wrong of them to build railways, harbors, and
other public moneys out of borrowed money. They should
pay for those things out of their own pockets apparently,
and make posterity a present of them. But though this
would be a very good thing for posterity, would it not be
a trifle rough on our unfortunate selves. For, after all,
posterity will have the railways, harbors, and public
works, when ive have done with them. And what is more,
posterity will be a perfect giant compared with ourselves.
—Western Mail (Perth).
The above statement represents one of the easy
fictions with which a .shoddy and irresponsible
generation apologises to itself for its shiftlessness,
its thriftlessness, and its cowardice in leaving the
bill to the infant. The infant will be more
numerous than we are, and he will have
the works when we are done with him—the
works, that is, which are built with the loans
which the infant is to pay. Anyhow the infant
isn’t here in a voting sense and can’t protest. The
case is heard without the defendant—Posterity-
being present, and he is seldom even represented
by counsel, and the Court gives judgment against
him for the full amount with Costs. The position
is grossly unfair. Therefore The Bulletin puts
on its barristerial robe, and dons its horsehair,
and appears for Posterity.
* * * *
In the first place, it is absolute and premedi-
tated lying to represent that our borrowings are
all for reproductive public works, and that Pos-
terity will, as a fixed rule, thus get the assets
along with the invoice. In many cases there were
no assets even at the beginning. Among the
things for which these States have borrowed are,
in N.S.W., immigration ; in Queensland, rifles,
ammunition, old gunboats, etc., immigration, and
(to the extent of nearly £2,000,000) for something
simply described as “Miscellaneous”; in S.A.,
for defence, vermin-proof netting, and repurchase
of land (previously sold and the proceeds treated
as revenue) ; and in Victoria, for “mining enter-
prise” (ye gods!), defence, for an item baldly
described as “ Agriculture,” for the repurchase of
land (previously sold and the proceeds treated as
revenue), for small holdings (which are the
same thing over again), and for “Other
Purposes.” But Tasmania has beaten all
records by charging to posterity in its loan
bill, defence expenditure, immigration, State
aid to religion, and old revenue deficiencies
incurred prior to 1867—42 long muddled years
ago. When Posterity has “assets” like these
handed down to it along with the bill incurred by
its disreputable and intoxicated parent, it will
have a right to complain. And, in addition to
the above, an ever-increasing proportion of the
Australian Public Debt is represented by no more
tangible assets than discounts, exchange, stamp
duty and other expenses on the flotation and re-
newal of loans. About three-fourths of this
country’s loans represent cases in which a State
has given its 1.0.TJ. or draft on posterity for £lOO
in exchange for sums varying from £B7 18s. lid.
to £99 10s. These immense discounts were given
in order to get the loan at reduced interest. The
interest was to some extent the affair of the
present generation, so that particular matter was
watched with some care and anxiety ; the dis-
count is Posterity’s trouble when the bill
comes due, and Posterity doesn’t matter. So this
is probably how that £lOO bill will look when it
falls due
For antiquated narrow-gauge Railways (ren-
dered obsolete by the mono-rail, or the
airship) . .. .. .. ■■ •• £5O 0 0
~ Telegraphs (scrapped owing to wireless
telegraphy) .. .. .. .. .. 500
~ Schools and other public buildings (since
pulled down as obsolete) .. .. 10 0 0
~ Repurchase at a great advance of land
previously sold, and proceed- used as
revenue .. .. .. 500
~ Rifles and ammunition (long since
dead) .. .. .. .. • • • • 2 10 0
~ Sundries .. •• 15 8 11
~ Bead Loss on original transaction .. 12 1 1
Posterity—his Invoice .. .. .. £lOO 0 0
And this is quite apart from the fact that the pre-
sent generation is selling the land and eating up
the proceeds, so that the candle is burning at both
ends. And it is also quite apart from the fact
that after two or three renewals the Dead Loss
item may as easily be £3O as £l2.
+ •* ■*■
So even if Posterity does get a certain number
of partially worn-out works along with the bill
that makes the case very little better. The
reason why a country, if it will borrow for public
works, should attach to every loan a sinking fund
sufficient to completely wipe out the debt inside
50 years, is that there are no works which can be
left to Posterity with even a reasonable certainty
that they will be worth a copper in 50 years.
Everything becomes obsolete in time except debt.
Debt is in as good a state of preservation to-day
as it was in the days of Abraham the First.
But other things go, and other systems wear out.
The telegraph lines, which represent so much of
Posterity’s bill, are going now, for wireless tele-
graphy has arrived. The steam locomotive is
threatened by electricity ; the mono-rail threat-
ens to involve the complete reconstruction of our
unpaid-for railway system, and the airship is
looming. Also the narrow-gauge railway, which
represents so much of Australia’s loans, was
obsolete when it started. Then smaller things
are always happening. The G.P.0., which
stands for perhaps £500,000 of N.S.W.’s hard-
borrowed money, is already so out-of-date that a
ne\v one is spoken of. The old Sydney railway
terminus died unpaid for. The old, unpaid-for
Zigzag has proved impossible and has to go.
Fortifications, guns, and ships get out-of-date —
like the Tower of London. Docks and wharves
become useless, because the 12,000-ton ship has
replaced the 500-ton affair. The water supply
system fails ; Sydney is a young city, yet it has
already outgrown and abandoned two or three
water supply systems, and either one or two
sewerage systems. Melbourne’s famous loan-
money Coodk canal is quite new, yet it becomes
increasingly evident that it will soon have to be
abandoned and replaced by a straight cut. There
is nothing that we can leave to Posterity to-day,
with even a decent pretence of certainty that i t
will be worth a penny when 1959 comes round.
And Posterity will have the old generation’s
ghastly blunders to repair, as well as its bills to
pay and its old, worn-out, obsolete, flint-lock,
muzzle-loading public works to replace. Take the
single example presented by the city of Sydney.
It is already plain that Sydney will have to be
reconstructed because of the folly of some be-
nighted, hard-borrowing folk of olden times—
folk who didn’t know' any better than to make the
new city a spider’s w'eb of alleys and lanes and
dog-leg devices. The place has already outgrown
its possibilities, yet the population is under
600,000. Before that population reaches 1,600,000
posterity will probably have to find forty or sixty
■millions to repair the follies of its incapable loan-
parents. Even w'ith the city at its present size, it
would cost more to reconstruct it in a very mode-
rate w’ay than the whole place was worth in 1850
or 1860.
* * * *
The advocates of borrowing are given to talking
as if we were justified in handing down the bill
to Posterity because w'e have completed the job,
so to speak, and passed on the finished work along
with the invoice. Yet it is only necessary to look
round to realise the folly of this attitude. Of the
making of public w'orks there is no end. Old
countries like France, Britain and Germany
started the construction of public works some
2000 years ago, and they have been building public
works more or less ever since, and to-day they are
building public works harder than ever, and even
the beginning of the end isn’t in sight. Posterity
in our case will strike the same trouble. But if
the present generation absorbs all the available
loan money and exhausts the available credit,
Posterity will have to pay interest on the old debts
with one hand and to build the new works out of
revenue with the other. Under these circum-
stances it will have a hard row to hoe. Yet that
row must be hoed some day, for it is impossible
for everybody to pass on the bill for all time. If
that had been done in the past the Hebrew's
would still be paying interest on the cost of Solo-
mon’s Temple, and the Italians would still be
paying interest on the Colisseum, and the Greeks
on the Pantheon.
* » * *
And there are other things to be considered.
When Posterity has replaced the things that are
obsolete and worn-out, and has paid the bills that
were never represented by any assets at all, the
situation will be bad enough, for these two items
will practically mean that, for every £100,000,000
of debt that we hand down, there will be
about £1,000,000 worth of permanent assets
to show. Yet the trouble will be only, beginning.
When Posterity has paid for the undoing of the
old blunders, things will be even worse ; by that
time the position will probably be that every
£100,000,000 of debt that was handed down meant
£99,000,000 of dead weight with no remunerative
assets to show for it, and a new liability of
£20,000,000 or so to make straight the places which
the old generation spent so much good loan money
in making crooked. And then also the trouble
will be only beginning. When Posterity has
bought back at many hundred per cent, advance
many of the lands which its silly forefathers sold
for a song, and the proceeds of which they spent
in current eating and drinking, things will again
be worse. Yet even then the trouble will be
only beginning. For there are other things
ahead. Posterity will have the war to pay for
—the war which comes to every country soon
or late, but which, with its accompanying
bill the older generation has so wonderfully
missed; and in war time money is a dreadfully
dear commodity to purchase, especially when a
herd or terrace of loony ancestors has used up all
the available credit in time of peace. Posterity
will have the broken property to replace after the
war, and it is wonderful how many millions’
worth of good loan property get wrecked in war
time. Posterity will have the great defence bill
to shoulder, for it is after a nation learns what
war really is that it lifts the white man’s burden
in earnest. And Posterity will have the widows
and orphans and the sick and maimed and all the
derelicts of the war to look after. And it will
have the stupendous bill for the loan drunk of its
forefathers on top of all. Posterity is in for a
great time.
In fact, the great time is arriving before our
eyes. In every State the bill for loans that were
used as mere revenue, and the bill for loans that
were spent on works which are already obsolete, is
coming home to roost, and taxation grows heavier
and heavier to fill the gap. The case of Maori-
land points the moral best, for Maoriland has had
the loan disease in an even worse form than its
neighbors, and there the splendid time that Pos-
terity is to have is coming to hand even a little
more suddenly than elsewhere. In Maoriland,
taxation in 1899 was £3 13s. 3d. per inhabitant per
annum. It 1908 it was £5 os. 4d. It will pro-
bably amount to £7 for every inhabitant, includ-
ing the baby, in another 10 years, if the borrowing
craze continues. And the bill for the two


Dreadnoughts hasn’t come in yet, and a de-
fence policy hasn’t been even fairly started
yet, and the war hasn’t happened yet. It is
a comforting delusion that Posterity can easily
carry its fathers’ bills because it will be so much
more numerous than the old man was. But things
don’t work out that way. Maoriland has had a
vast increase of population in the last 10 years,
but though there are more people to carry the
bill, each individual totters more and more wearily
under his share of it. Plainly the process can’t
go on for ever, and the end will probably come
when Posterity curses its father’s name and
memory, and offers the old person’s creditors 2s.
in the £. ,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Aspects of the Dreadnought Jest.
As the meeting of Parliament approaches, the
lamentable Dreadnought joke becomes more and
more a subject for ridicule. The subscriptions
still shamble in after a feeble fashion, but they
become fewer and farther between, and there are
disquieting rumors that some of them are not
really subscriptions, but only promises, and that
the promises are very slow to materialise. It is
quite evident now that the fund is never likely to
get far beyond the price of a pair of ferry-boats.
But the lie about the insistent demand of the
people that the Dreadnought should be given is in
as good working order as ever, and it is still
among the possibilities of the case that the
Fisher Government will go down over its refusal
to misappropriate the people’s cash. For the busi-
ness would be misappropriation pure and simple,
as well as high-handed insolence. In this matter
the position of almost every man of, the Dread-
nought gang is amazingly inconsistent. About
half of them (including an earlier edition of
Alfred Deakin) are opposed to any prompt
action in the way of imposing a Federal progres-
sive land-tax, on the ground that the people
should first he consulted at a general election.
Yet they clamor vociferously for the giving away
of about £2,000,000 worth of Australian property
without giving the people a chance to express any
opinion at all. This makes the excuse that is used
in the case of the land-tax look like very thin and
childish hypocrisy, and it looks especially thin
and childish and hypocritical when these two
points are considered : (1) The people have been
so far consulted over a Federal progressive land-
tax that the matter has been talked about at every
election since the Commonwealth began, and
the country hag returned a steadily in-
creasing force of land-taxers; while the idea
of giving a Dreadnought to Britain wasn’t men-
tioned by a single candidate at a single elec-
tion, and not even a dog, let alone a man, was
returned on that issue. And (2) it doesn’t matter
a straw if the progressive land-tax is enacted by
this Parliament without any further reference to
the people, for if the people don't like it they can
undo the deed by returning a majority of anti-
land-taxers at the election now only nine or ten
months away, and get the measure repealed before
there is time to collect a single penny of tax ;
while it does matter if Parliament commits the
outrage of giving away £2,000,000 of the people’s
money without authority, for 20 general elections
wouldn’t fetch the 'money back. Then another
half of the Dreadnought party (including a later
edition of Alfred Deakin) opposes the pro-
gressive land-tax on the amazingly cheeky
assertion that no such Federal impost was
“contemplated” by the persons who drafted
the Constitution about 10 years ago. It would
be highly interesting to know if these drafters of
the Constitution “contemplated,” 10 years ago,
the giving of a Dreadnought to Britain, especially
without any direc't authority from the people. If
so, they were an'amazingly contemplative crowd.
Almost, all the Dreadnought people are Anti-
Socialists of the deepest dye, who hold that
Private Enterprise can always “do the thing
better,” and'yet because Private Enterprise took
up this matter and failed horribly, they want to
pass the job on to the State on the ground that
the State can do it a lot better. And because the
people hawe signified their strong disapproval of
thfe Dreadnought, business by the simple process
of putting.up a. mere scrap of the required money,
these Anti-Socialists declare there is proof positive
that they are just craving to put up the whole darned
lot. Yet they know so well that the people
are not craving worth a cent that they dare
nob even propose to consult them, by General
Election or Referendum, or in any way what-
ever. A few weeks ago it certainly looked as if the
Dreadnought crowd in Parliament had a majority
sufficient to carry the proposed misappropriation.
To-day the situation looks doubtful. If the Aus-
tralian Parliament rejects the Dreadnought joke
then the onus of it falls upon State Premiers
Wade and Murray, who have promised to fill the
gap. Neither of them has got the assent of people
or Parliament any more than Deakin and Cook
have. Each of them, has a heavily, declining
revenue, and Wade has already a deficit of over
£1,000,000 with only ten months of the financial
year gone. Also Wade has already blewed (in
ten months) nearly £2.500,000 of loan money, and
Murray has just borrowed £1,500,000, so their
joint cash outlook is very blue indeed, and doesn’t
at all justify them in rushing into wild Dread-
nought expenditure.
4
“ Der Tear Oldt Mudder Coontry.”
Just at present, the person who is audacious
enough to remark that he approves of Fisher’s
naval policy is likely to be rushed and bitten and
called a pro-Boer by 14 infuriated Tories waving
Union Jacks. On all hands are serried masses of
Stomach assuring people that the Australian who
thinks Australianly is a rebel and an ingrate and a
creature to be classed with the hangman and the
informer, and the corpse-eater ; and when Willy
Kelly, M.H.R., strides down Pitt-street,
Sydney, Tory editors get respectfully out of
his way as did the Tuscans when Astur
got busy playing Bridge. Everywhere we
hear of Australia’s obligations to the Dear Old
Mother Country, and the arguments put for-
ward sound pretty convincing. The trouble is
that they don’t go far enough. Australia isn’t
the only place that has a Mother Country. Even
England itself happens to be nothing more than an
island occupied bythe descendants of sundry enter-
prising people who were born—awful to think of—
in Germany ! It is a horrible fact to face, bu t it is
a fact all thes&me, that, as England is Australia’s
Dear Old Mother Country, so Germany—the hated
Germany—is England’s Tear Old tModder Coon try.
The stout gentlemen who are for ever rebuking
Australians for acting as Australians should be
logical, and denounce the traitorous ingrates in
England now abusing their own flesh and blood in
Potsdam. They should talk about hands across
the Channel and the old race and the boys of the
blutwurst breed, until England is thoroughly
ashamed of itself and prances down Fleet-street
singing “ Gott Save der Kaiser,” to throw in its
thousands at the Mansion House for the purpose
of presenting a Dreadnought to the German
navy. It is not necessary to delve into
pages of ethnology to satisfy yourself that
the most rabid Englishman of the day
is a Teutonic person who , has basely for-
gotten his ancestors. A glance at the names
of the people who have subscribed to the Sydney
Dreadnought fund shows a strangely large number
of patriots whose names contain the eloquent
letters “Sch,” while others are only variants of
the Saxon. How many generations back did the
ancestor of Bruce Smith spell his name Schmidt?
Hordern, Dangar and Hall are even closer to
the originals, while Smithurst, the flag exchange
enthusiast, was obviously Schmidthorst (Smith’s
roost or Smith’s home) before his forebears had
forgotten the old land whence they sprung.
Out of His Own Mouth .
In the “ Parliamentary Debates” (7/10/’08) may
be found a speech on the Defence question by
G. H. Reid. It is a good speech in its way. It
contains in a compass of 22 pages every single
argument, valid and invalid, that has since been
employed by J. Cook, W. E. Johnson,
Willy Kelly, and the rest of the lesser
intellectual lights of the Anti-Sosh party,
in favor of the Commonwealth hiring its
defence from abroad. So highly did Reid’s
followers think of it, six months ago, that they
had it reprinted in pamphlet form and distributed
broadcast about Sydney. The leit-motiv which
throbs through this effort is the deplorableness of
“ militarism ” (which, when you come to think of
it, is just as bad as “ navalism ”). There is a sub-
sidiary melody, as it were, and that harps on the
invincibleness of Britain, tlie madness of Australia
spending money—which is badly needed for other
purposes—on mere defence, and the impossibility
in any case of the Commonwealth Government
finding the sum required (estimated at about
£1,800,000) by honest means. Said G. Reid, at
an early stage of this address :
I suppose there is no man in this community so
affected by military glamor as to wish to indulge in any
unnecessary provision for chimerical possibilities. This
Commonwealth is not rich enough to throw money away
upon shadowy conjectures. It has to meet too many solid
pressing claims connected with the development of this
continent and the advancement and prosperity of the
people. The one thing which I think will not distinguish
the members of this Parliament is love of military dis-
play, or a feeling in favor of warlike adventure.
And then he went on to demonstrate two things :
(1) The idiocy of suggesting that Australia would
need any vessels for coast defence for years and
years to come; (2) the further idiocy and malig-
nant disloyalty of representing that the British
fleet stood in danger from any possible combina-
tion of Rowers. The arguments used by him in
support of ibe first contention were the same
worn old arguments that Admirals Poore, Bosan-
QGET and a dozen other high authorities have
since burst utterly. They are too exploded to be
worth traversing here. This is what the speaker
had to say under the second head :
Built and building', Great Britain has 60 battleships to
Germany’s 28—or more than twice as many. Of first-
class cruisers—honorable members know what magnifi-
cent ships such cruisers of modern type are—Great
Britain has 48, while Germany has only 10. In first-class
cruisers Great Britain has three more than those of Ger-
many, France, Italy, and Japan put together, and in
addition possesses a large fleet of second- and third-class
cruisers. Admiral Fisher has cast on the scrap-heap
great hulking vessels that had ceased to represent the
highest type of fighting efficiency. There we have a
Power, etc.
These statements were cheered wildly by Joe
Cook, Wiley Kelly, B. Smith, and the rest of
the Anti-Socialist Imperialists who are bound by
their party rules to represent Australia’s self-
respecting aspiration to do something other than
visit the pawnshop by way of defending itself as
unworthy folly. Furthermore these short-sighted
folks adopted as their own the Reid arguments in
regard to the matchless strength of the British
navy, and hurled them at gatherings in their con-
stituencies and elsewhere for many moons after-
wards. Keeping these facts in mind, the reader
is hereby asked to cast his mind back a few weeks
to the time the Dreadnought agitation, or scare,
or paralytic stroke, or whatever it was,
first struck the community. It will be re-
membered that a Reuter’s message stated
that Germany was building big ships as well
as Britain. The defence proposals of the
Commonwealth Labor Government were just
about due. It was the psychological moment for
some sort of counter-blast. And so the editors of
two anti-Labor dailies stepped briskly forward
and offered on behalf of Australia a two-million
pound Dreadnought to the Cold Land, and then
stepped back and leaned easily against their
waste-paper baskets, leaving to the Labor
Prime Minister the job of paying for
the enormously expensive craft or enduring
the charge of being a disloyalist, a dingo
a pro-Teuton and a contemptible hound generally.
G. Reid,, the statesman who says he is “against
any unnecessary provision for chimerical possi-
bilities,” the economist who holds that “the
Commonwealth has too many solid pressing
claims connected with its development to be able
to'throw money away on shadowy conjectures,”
the peace advocate who is opposed to “mili-
tary display” and “warlike adventure” was
the first ' in the fifeld with a wild, whirl-
ing flood of words in favor of Dreadnought-
giving at any price. His Anti-Sosh colleagues
followed his lead with hound-like fidelity, and the
whole pack — from Joe COOK, who opined at
Marrickville recently that “scores of Dread-
noughts” were required to meet the situation, to
Willy Kelly, who, at a given word, is ready to
opine anything—has been howling for Dread-
noughts ever since. The British Government
has said as plainly as such a body may that it
doesn’t want a Dreadnought. An immense section
of the British press has damned the Dreadnought
movement in England as a flagrant party move
on the part of the Tories to oust the present
Liberal administration. The current London
files represent the British Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer as writing to this theme last month as
follows:
I should be the last man to impute unworthy motives
to those who have attacked us, but I cannot view without
regret and misgiving the “ jumpy ” patriotism which is
now so much in fashion, and which, however excellent
the intentions of its exponents, cannot fail in my opinion
to detract from our national dignity and prestige.
And the Secretary to the Admiralty thus delivered
himself at the City Liberal Club about the same
time :
He insisted that ample time and opportunity were at
our disposal to meet carefully and scientifically the needs
of that day—by no means so imminent as some thought—
when nothing but the newer type of battleship would
count. Those who said that the Navy was not easily
ahead of its own standard for very many years past
either did not know or would not face the facts. (Loud
Cheers.)
As for Australia, it has no millions to scatter
round on unwanted warships. The money which
it is proposed by the anti-Laborites shall be
ble'wed on a Dreadnought would suffice to pay the
whole of the Commonwealth old-age pensions for
the year and leave a couple of hundred thousand
Surplus , to be applied in other directions. It
would serve to make the post and telegraph Ser-
vices the finest in the world. It would suffice to
settle the Northern Territory, or to build most of
a transcontinental railway. It is £200,000 more
than G- Reid and his allies said six months ago
was an insanely extravagant provision for Aus-
tralian defence purposes. On the subject of the
National party’s proposals for an Australian
citizen army and an Australian fleet, G. Reid
perorated (7/10/’08) as follows :
I - sum up my attitude by stating that I regard these
projects as being not founded in necessity or even in
prudence, but as arising either from hysterical fear or
from a craze for militarism that is foreign to the history
and,the spirit of the British race.
If he hud tried, he could hardly have evolved a
juster, terser condemnation of the Dreadnought
foolery that he is advocating now.
The Nice Fresh Globe-Trotter.
A VERY, very superior English person—most
English persons are superior—called in at Sydney
the other day, and proceeded out of the vastness
of his ignorance and his importance to give this
country good advice. His name is Collins; he
is a kind of alderman from Hammersmith
(London); and his qualifications for teiling Aus-
tralia exactly what to do arose out of the fact that
he had paid flying visits to Brisbane, Perth and
Melbourne before he reached Sydney. This
placed him in the position of the man who has
looked in at London, Hamburg, Archangel and
Lisbon, and is consequently in a position to advise
Europe on all important questions. Said Collins,
as reported with all due respect by a Sydney
morning paper :
What I want to impress upon the Labor party is that
the action of the Labor majority in the Parliaments is
creating a feeling amongst capitalists that there is no
stability which would warrant them in investing their
money in Australia. . . . The capitalist takes that into
consideration, and the result was that when New South
Wales wanted a loan she could not get it subscribed,
while Russia’s was subscribed five times over. . . . The
capitalist is afraid of investing his money, and I think lie
is justly afraid. You cannot regulate the prices of labor
by any possible means. At home the conditions of labor
regulate themselves. You here try to lay down a mini-
mum wage. What is the consequence? At the corner
of Pitt-street to-day I saw a number of men loafing. I
counted 23 of them. They could not find work, simply
because the wages which employers could afford to give
them employers are not allowed to pay. My impression
is that these men cannot get ivork. They could get work
if they were not bound to accept only a certain wage.
Mr. Collins held that Australia’s great need was immi-
gration. If there w T as n<J Crown land a land-tax might be
justified, but he saw no reason why land should not be
resumed on a large scale, and improved by driving a road
through it—say, from Brisbane to Carpentaria. It would
cost millions, but the money paid to the landholders
would, after all, be kept in the country.
The Sydney Foreign-trade morning papers are
so anxious to be polite to bounding visitors
from Hammersmith that they never seem
to make any attempt to correct their silly
blunders. So, apparently, Collins wasn’t re-
That there is no “Labor majority”
in any Australian Parliament, and anyone save a
complete ass would have ascertained that fact
before speaking. (2) That it is only a very
ignorant person who would say ‘‘you cannot
regulate the price of labor by any possible means ”
when it has been done successfully in Victoria for
13 years and in most other Australian States for
varying periods, and under the new system the
demand for labor has immensely increased. (3)
That a time when the British Government pro-
poses in sheer despair to adopt the Australian
Wages Boards system as a remedy for sweating is
a very poor one for boasting of how successfully
“these things regulate themselves ” in England.
(4) That it is a silly proceeding for any fellow
from Hammersmith to say that our Labor laws
are all wrong because he saw 23 men and was
“under the impression that they couldn’t get
work.” Probably it was only their dinner hour. (5)
That the man who urges this country to spend
“ millions ” on resuming land, and thinks that
the first essential is to build a coastal railway
from Brisbane to the Gulf, in order to compete
against sea-carriage, when he hasn’t even seen the
country, is a very off-hand sort of ass. (6) That
if N.S. W. offered the same reckless rate of interest
which Russia does it could probably—heavy as its
debt is—get its loans also subscribed five times
over. (7) That the gibe about outsiders not
caring to risk their capital here is rather out-of-
date. Our trouble is that the British person
wants such an awful lot in return for his capital.
For instance, on the capital which he sent out to
found the Union Bank we are paying him about
17 per cent, per annum ; Bank of Australasia,
nearly 20 per cent.; National Bank of Maoriland,
fully 24 per cent.- —reckoning dividends and
surplus profits carried to reserves. And there are
many similar cases. In return for ouri liberality
in giving J. Bull these splendid profits on his.
capital we have the offensive patronage of bound-
ing aldermen from Hammersmith, and it seems-
really better to do without the capital; the price'
is too high and the bounding aldermen are too-
much like kangaroos. (8) That one reason why
the English globe-trotter is, with the mass of
people, the most-hated and the most-despisedi
person on earth is this habit he has of coming
fresh from Hammersmith and giving great masses,
of high-toned advice to a strange country the day
after his arrival, without any real knowledge of
that country’s conditions. Hammersmith isn’t,
exactly the sort of place where one learns the big:
things that help to solve the social problems of a-
continent.
4>
The Victorian Employers’ Federation Goes
on its Lonesome.
“ The Listener ” writes
That bouncing body of mixed Freetraders, Tories, andl
low-wage advocates, the Victorian Employers’ Federa-
tion, some of whom employ as much as a whole
office boy, called a meeting in Melbourne the other
evening to protest against the Chamber of Manufac-
tures’ acceptance of the New Protection principle.
The Fed. boasts some 5000 members. There were at
least 40 of these present, and they were practically unani-
mous that they would have nothing to do with any party
that “ made the so-called New Protection a plank in its
platform.” After the unseemly Walpolf. had discoursed
vaguely until everyone else was tired the usual Tories got
off the usual platitudes. Importer Keep assured the
world at large that “ their sole idea was to do their best
in the interests of labor—of course from the point of view
of the employer ” ; and the dreadful McKetciiup and other
remaiiets from the days of Noaii got off similar generous
but unconvincing remarks. Fairbairn wasn’t there, but
T. Hogg was. Hogg is the newly-elected president of the
Chamber of Manufactures —having succeeded that good
Australian, distiller Joshua—and, speaking officially, he
plainly told the 39 that “if the New Protection meant
that alongside reasonable Protection there should go-
reasonable wages to employees, then his Chamber had
no objection to it.” Furthermore he stated that, though,
the Wages Board system protected many wage-earners,,
it didn’t protect all ; and where it did protect the employer'
was feeling the effect of the competition of those States;
where there vvere no such Boards. In a word, the Vic-
torian employer and employee were being pushed to the.
>vall by the States where no Minimum Wage law ob-
tained just as much as if there was no Protective tariff at:
all. The 39 members present, many of whom are im-
porters solely, sat aghast—till they gathered enough wits:
to reject Hogg’s amendment and postpone the main ques-
tion for a fuller attendance. But before that fuller meeting"
finally decides to “ have nothing to do with any party
that advocates the New Protection,” it had better con-
sider the advisability of forming a party and drawing up
a platform on its little own. Such a negative policy has
no hope from Labor or from the DEARiN-ites ; and last
session G. Reid, then leader of the Opposition, declared
that, if the country must have Protection, he was
in favor of giving it the new article in place of
the old. The Federation could doubtless count
on Fairbairn and possibly on Irvine, but a
party composed of one Iceberg and one nonentity
can hardly be called a party. Now, if the combined
employers—the whole 39 of them—would put up Walpole
and McKetciiup, and could get them in, there would be a
beginning, a sort of nucleus, and presently we might be
treated to a term of sound Government, with encourage-
ment of capital, lack of industrial strife, protection of the
’ome, tightening of the marriage tie and so forth. But
what is the use of Fairbairn and Irvine as a party V
They are only a joke.
A Bad Judicial Example.
There is a disastrous amount of reason in the cry
of execration that has gone up from the red-flag
section of the Broken Hill Laborites in connec-
tion with Justice Pring’S handling of the cases of
Holland and others at Albury. Many of the
grievances of these folk have probably no basis in
reason; but the complaint in regard to Justice
Piung’s conduct at Albury seems justifiable. It.
is a principle of decency and equity, which,
none of N.S.W.’s Judges, with the solitary-
exception of the awful Windeyer, has hitherto,
departed from in any wholesale fashion, that,
the man on the Bench, whatever his personal,
views regarding an accused person’s guilt or inno-
cence may be, shall not betray them till the jury-
lias arrived at a verdict. It would be monstrous
if things were otherwise. The Australian Judge,
unlike his Yankee and certain of his European
brothers, is a citizen that is highly respected in
the land. The community trusts implicitly both
his intellect and his ethics. With a fair propor-
tion of any average jury his opinion on a matter of
fact or law carries immense weight. Those
things make it especially advisable that he should
guard against disclosing the least bias in court
during a criminal or other trial. At Albury,
when Holland was presented before him, Jus-
tice Pring took the mask of impartiality right
off, and stowed it away in a remote spot.
He did not trouble to hide for a moment his view
that the accused was a seditious and dangerous
blackguard. Holland was defending himself.
He was doing it in a hopelessly incompetent
fashion. The “eloquence” which the Bench
charged him with possessing was indiscernible to
the naked public ear. He is just the same frothy
spouter of wild words as Tom Mann and a score
of other fool-speakers who lash cheers and thrip-
pences out of Domain audiences. And that pitiful
little gift was his only asset at Albury, the only
weapon he had wherewith to contend against the
brain and experience of one of the brainiest.
Promises!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Murray, at the Mayor of Melbourne’s luncheon on
Monday, dropped some significant hints in this direction.
He promises Victoria a “ liberal land-tax ” and “ a more
satisfactory way of resuming possession of land by the
State.” The Victorian Premier is, of course, pledged to
land reform, but he has to take the responsibility for the
method he adopts.—S. M. Herald.
Some thirty-and-four
(Or, perhaps, rather more)
Years ago,
Someone rose
On his toes,
Blew his nose,
And remarked that “ the landlord must go”—
That “ the 'land must be held by the people ! ”
(Loud cheers.)
That was some time ago.
In the year eighty-three
An M.P.
Said ‘ ‘ I see
There will be no increase
In the land under crop.
Why this stop ?
Is our progress to cease?”
And the Minister said,
With a shake of his head,
“ Oh, dear, no !
The big landlord must go ”
(Great applause)
That was some years ago !
In the year ’ninety-eight,
I may state,
There were great
Expectations ! The late
Member for Sludge
Hatched a bill with a clause
That caused mighty applause.
For it dealt with the laws
Touching Land !
(I pause
To remark it was meant
To allay discontent),
But a party named Bent
Called it fudge.
Bluffed the member for Sludge.
Said, “ Of course we all know
That the landlord must go !
But such clauses are tripe,
For the time isn’t ripe ! ”
(Sensation and cheers)
So the evil continued to grow.
Here we are now, to-day ;
Bent has faded away,
And the others have left Here Below;
But there’s no need to hurry
(According to Murray)
Reform’s necessarily slow—
, Doesn’t Grandmamma ’Erald say so?
Shall we cause worthy landlords this woe ?
: Qh, dear no !
“ The land must be held by the people ,”
Yes— must !
But, surely, the people can trust
The good, just
Landlords a few years or so ?
We all know
They must go !
Murray, Wade, Moore and co.
Have said so
(Especially Murray).
Then why worry ?
As they say, “ We can’t ask him to-day,
We must borrow the money to pay
We’ll do that to-morrow ,
Perhaps he will go the next day !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
• Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT :
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
V FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Be3t Pictures and Machines at your
Door. We are Ayeiits for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
The present strength of the Federal
Government is in the disunion of the Opposition.
But the party of wise progress is bound to keep
adding strength to its strength. That is if it
continues to acid wisdom to its wisdom by judicious
appeals to D.C.L. Whisky. Lucid intervals
with D.C.L., the scholarly brand, are wisdom's
golden moments.*
and most experienced counsel in the State.
It was unworthy, in the circumstances, for
Justice Pring to direct the jury solemnly
and at length that ' Holland had no right
to employ the term “Judge-made law,”
that there was no such thing as “Judge-made
law,” and so forth. The expression is hallowed
by age ; it has a widely-recognised meaning ; and,
though technically incorrect, serves well to describe
portions of certain laws which have been inter-
preted out of their original meanings by
Judges. At another stage, Holland asked for
a point to be noted. The point was absurd ; but
still more absurd was Justice Pring’s testy refusal
to note it. Apart from the highly-debatable
question of whether a Judge has the right to
refuse to note points taken by an accused person,
there is the undoubted fact that such a refusal, in
the case of an indifferently-educated man like Hol-
land, who, ignorant of law and procedure, was de-
fending himself without the help of an advocate,
was, to put it mildly, ill-advised. If ever an accused
person, patently guilty or otherwise, called for
every consideration and latitude from a Judge,
Holland did. And he never got a vestige of
either. The extremists whose sentiments he
voices don t want peace or reason. They approxi-
mate closely to the kind of half-witted trouble-
makers that G. Reid and the Sydney dailies
accused J. C. Watson and his colleagues of being
at last Federal elections. In a mostly law-abiding
and fair-minded community like this they are
afforded little real ground for their ridiculous
chain-clanking antics. Justice Pring’s plainly-
indicated hostility to Holland, from the begin-
ning to the end of the latter’s trial, has given
the “ Revolutionaries ” the chance of a lifetirhe.
They are able, with a good show of reason, to
elevate their jugged comrade into the position of
a martyr, and to wail about the law’s habit of
“stamping” his sort into the dust beneath its
“iron heel.” All of which was wholly unneces-
sary. In a doubtless well-meant attempt to see
Law and Order vindicated, the high official who
presided at the court at Albury has given both as
severe a blow as it was possible for one in his
position to deal.
♦
Why the Country Trader Who is an Anti-
Socialist is also a Fool.
The Sydney Telegraph printed this item
(11/5/’O9) from its Muswellbrook correspondent:—
Muswellbrook, though one of the soundest (commer-
cially) and most up-to-date towns in New South Wales,
lias not made much headway in recent years.
The bland remark that Muswellbrook “has not
made much headway in recent years ” appeals
greatly to the writer. He first met Muswellbrook
2i) years ago. The population was about 1500 at
the time, and the town, according to those in it,
was just about to boom. The other day he made
its acquaintance again. The population was still
about 1500. Things were alleged to be still on the
vergeof booming. Hereand thereanimproved post
office, or an enlarged pub.—-more or less modern
decorative effects—were to be seen, but in the sum
it was to all intents and purposes the same old
Muswellbrook. The place palpably had not ad-
vanced a yard ; and that in a space of time wherein
U.S.A. and Canadian towns no more fortunately
placed than it is, from the point of view of natural
resources, have become cities of importance. The
traveller out of Muswellbrook may take the main
Merriwa road and walk till he drops, or drive till
his horse drops, between miles and miles of rich
and well-fenced downs that contain nothing but
sheep, cattle and horses, and not too many of
them. It is the open secret of Musvvellbrook’s
stagnation. One estate-owner alone, whose huge
homestead lies half a dozen miles from the deplor-
able Muswellbrook railway station, possesses the
fee simple of sufficient arable land to support, as
farmers, the entire population of the town to which
his letters are addressed. He is cited here because
he happens to be the nearest example to hand, so to
speak. Any one of half a dozen other adjacent
land-monopolists might as justifiably,be indicated.
Muswellbrook is quite dead commercially and
otherwise, owing to the existence of these folk.
So long as they hold huge tracts of country for
the depasturing of dumb animals, which don’t buy
things in shops, or build factories, or keep bank-
ing accounts, or rent houses, or otherwise cause
business to hum, Muswellbrook is going, demon-
strably, to stay as dead as it has been these two
decades past. And yet here, as in so many other
up-country towns whose plight approximates to
its own, it is the local traders who are, in nine
eases out of ten, the most rabid Anti-Socialists,
and hence the most rabid anti-land taxers in the
district. The land-monopolist benefits this class
to the extent that he buys from it those articles
wltich it isn’t convenient for him to get
from the big Sydney houses. It isn’t much
of a boon, and yet the country trader has arrived
somehow at the conviction that his prosperity is
bound up with the goodwill of this infrequent
customer of his. He is impressed by the spectacle
of an immense amount of money in his immediate
vicinity, and he seemingly never quite gives up
hope that some day the incredible may happen,
and a fair proportion of it come his way instead
of going the way of his commercial rivals in the
Big Smoke 170 miles distant. Of course it
never does, and it never will come his wav ; and
in his heart the wretched man knows it. In prac-
tice he would far rather have the many thousands
of small and regular customers whom the break-
ing up of the monopolist’s unwieldy holding
would send him than the one small and strictly
irregular customer who is the monopolist. Butin
theory he is an Anti-Socialist, and forbidden by the
laws of the game to take the step that is essential
to bring about the desired state of affairs. If the
shopkeepers, agents, lawyers, and other business
people of the Muswellbrooks, Camdens and
Bathursts of Australia stood solid for a graduated
land-tax, regardless of the vaporings of interested
parties, they would solve Australia’s immigration
problem out of hand. The countless fertile spaces
in their neighborhood would fill up as quickly as
the wheat lands of Alberta and Saskatchewan did
when they were opened for settlement. Business
would boom in these Australian towns as in-
evitably as it had to boom in the towns of Canada
and the U.S. A., which have risen to greatness of
late years on the fortunes of the agriculturists
surrounding them. So we get the spectacle of
these witless traders voting indigence for them-
selves and their children at each succeeding elec-
tion, without a single valid excuse for doing so.
They have fortunes to lose by supporting the
joint causes of the local land monopolist and the
great Sydney emporiums ; and at the most about
Is. 3d. a-piece per week to gain. If the unreason
of the convinced Anti-Socialist hadn’t prepared
us for anything, their attitude would constitute
one of the absorbing mysteries of the age.
Thk N.S.W. law has got itself into a tangle over
the South Head lighthouse, and the tangle is eat-
ing up money. The lighthouse is inside a small
enclosure on the desolate line of cliffs at Watson’s
Bay. The local aldermen value the desolation at
£lO,OOO, and as' the lighthouse is the only asset on
the horizon, they piled the whole of the rates on
to that luckless edifice. The State appealed on
the ground that the cliffs are unoccupied State
land, and said that even if a lighthouse is stuck in
the middle of a hefty stretch of cliffs that doesn’t
make the whole cliff line occupied. The District
Court Judge decided against'the State, which
appealed to the Full Court. When the appeal
first came on the aldermen had gone out to Rand-
wick races or somewhere; anyhow, they weren’t
at the Full Court, so a unanimous decision was
given against them. A fresh appeal was then
started. The Full Court said it couldn’t under-
stand what in thunder the appeal was based
on. It therefore dropped a line to the
District Court Judge, and adjourned. Next
week, the D. C. Judge wrote to say he had
decided that the land was occupied. Certainly,
most of it wasn’t occupied, but, all the same, he
held that, though it wasn’t occupied, you couldn’t
say it was unoccupied. Unoccupied lands meant
unalienated lands, such as exist at Booligal or
somewhere. The Full Court then declared that it
thought this decision rotten, and counsel for the
State was about to depart in triumph when the
Acting-Chief Justice added that the Court
dismissed the appeal. It appears that the Full
Court can’t decide questions of fact, and it either
is or isn’t a fact that the land is occupied or not
occupied. The Full Court can only decide legal
principles. Further, the Acting-Chief Justice
remarked that it was quite possible that he him-
self was talking nonsense, and he recommended
more appeals. It seems uncertain whether
the South Head cliffs are occupied or not at
present.
“Ricardo”: Irish manufacturers have adopted
a scheme to push their wares which offers a broad
hint to patriotic Australians. This is nothing
less than a national trade-mark on all goods of
purely Irish manufacture. The mark is regis-
tered, and only firms which comply with all the
conditions of the association are permitted to use
it. As the device is backed up by a vigorous pro-
paganda in furtherance of the “Ireland for the
Irish ” (or Sinn Fein) movement, its success has
been tremendous. Why not have something of
the same sort in Australia? Australian manu-
facturers and Australian buyers find it almost
impossible to know whether certain goods are
Australian-made or not. Dishonest shopkeepers
frequently substitute cheap imported shoddy for
good Australian' woollens, and so on with other
lines. With an Australian trade-mark this would
not be possible, save by plain, blank forgery. The
use of the trade-mark cuuld be controlled by an
association, and only granted to manufacturers
who work under fair labor conditions. This
would not only shut out the imported stuff made'
under sweating Conditions, but also ensure better
conditions for Australian workmen. When cer-
tain important citizens are done whooping for the
presentation of a Deadhorse to Britain, will they
kindly consider this suggestion ?
♦
“ .ZEdile ” writes :
When I hear anyone denouncing the Turks who
burned the ruins of the Parthenon for lime, or the
French ruffians who stabled their horses up against
the “Last Supper” of da Vinci, I mention to them
that we have vandals in Sydney who destroy nature
as the aforementioned Goths did art. The latest
instance is at Cremorne Point, one of the loveliest spurs
—uniquely beautiful —on the shores of Sydney Harbor.
The private owner subdivided this spur for sale purposes,
and Wade—our chief vandal—was asked by some persons
with a sense of civic righteousness to intervene and buy
the land beyond 100 ft. above high water mark (up to that
point it belongs to the people), and make this unique
promontory a public reserve for future generations. He
refused, of course —we didn’t expect anything else from
Wade—on the Philistine ground that there was plenty of
reserved land in the vicinity. On that principle, he
would destroy St. Peter’s because there are 300 other
churches in the vicinity ; he would fill in Sydney
Harbor because there is lots of water in the
ocean ; he would burn Raphael’s Madonna and
Child, in Florence, because there are acres of
Madonnas and children in Italian galleries. He would
destroy anything unique because there was a quantitive
plethora of something the same sort of thing. The land
was sold, Now comes the difficult proposition which
may cause the matter to be reopened. By the Width of
Streets and Lanes Act (George Reid’s Act, selfishly but
usefully inspired, no doubt, by his own increasing girth),
where land is built on (unless the land is a water-frontage)
adjoining a 20ft. lane, the houses and appurtenances must
be 23ft. back from the lane. All these cut up allotments
on Cremorne Point are off the central 20ft. lane, and
some of them are not very deep. The owners will thus
have to build close to the “100 ft. above high water
mark ” reserve on the Mosman side and on the Harbor
side. This will cause them to make use of the re-
serve as part of their garden. There will be no
road, only the lane. The “appurtenances” to their
houses (there is no sewerage down there yet)
will practically abut on the people’s reserve. The
whole thing - is scandalous, for this reason—that it
indicates the absence of public taste in Sydney and of a
civic conscience. Future generations will cry shame on
the apathy which allowed one harbor beauty spot to
perish while we are continually boasting- of that rapidly
fading beauty. We shall, out of pure habit, go on Roast-
ing even when terrace houses run down to the water, and
bath slops and suds pour over every silvery beach around
the shores and strands.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
m ' < “ Diana of Dobsons.”
Theatre Royal -j .. Sunday> >.
Criterion “ Lucky Durham.”
Palace West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hint Mint sty’s ■! “ An Englishman’s Home,” and
Her majesty s j .< After the Opera.”
Theatre Royal “Struck Oil.”
King’s “The Man from Outback.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Walter Bentley, he who used to play
Cardinal Donaid Richelieu in a powerful Scotch
accent, and who made a name for himself by his
rendering of Mac Hamlet and many other famous
characters, is bad: in Sydney. He suddenly
wearied of London, where the legitimate drama
is in very little demand these days, and where the
cold had got into his bones; so he skied his en-
gagement, packed up his kilt and his pibroch, and
fled for the scene of his old successes and for a
more genial sky. A very capable actor is Walter
Bentley, especially when he gets a chance to play
a swashbuckling character with brose and whisky
in it, and has a chance to wear a tartan
cap with a feather—such a character as
Dougal MacParritch of Auchtermuchty, he
who slew Sir Andrew Haggis of Haggis
Castle in single combat at Usquebaugh,
near Caller Herrin, and afterwards held
Cockieleekie Pass with only his slogan in
His hand against the whole force of the
Mac Claymores of Kail. If Williamson would only
revive that old drama, with Bentley in the part
of Dougal, he would bring back pleasant memories
to many ancient Scots belonging to the United
Presbyterian Church of Skye and Mull, and to
other estimable persons who don’t whustle on the
Sawbath.
** * *
There is an air of sniffling ill-repressed
over all the Sydney Theatre Royal just now. The
warm, sticky tear of the lone gallery-maiden drips
and drips insistently on to the bald skull of the
male stallite beneath ; and the latter is not ren-
dered the more philosophical over the outrage by
the fact that on either side of him his daughters
hiccup weepfully, and decline to be either com-
forted or gagged. The cause of all this trouble
and dampness and discomfort is to be found in the
fact that Miss Tittell Brune, adored of the im-
mature female heart, has begun a series of fare-
well performances. On Saturday her com-
pany staged “The Girl of the Golden West.”
Miss Brune, as the Girl, differed not in any
important particular from the same Girl
whom Bulletin readers have met several
times before. The Ramerrez of Thomas King-
ston is the same incredibly neat, tidy, civil-
ised-looking fancv-dress-ball desperado that he
was when he first embarked on a life of crime at the
big Castlereagh-street playhouse. The most true-
to-life feature of Belasco’s drama, as staged in this
country, is the passionate love the Girl accords her
Ramerrez. The bar-lady that could look on Ramer-
rez and not adore him has not yet been evolved.
George Bryant is an effective sheriff. Harry
Sweeney plays Borins' Fernie’s old part of Sonora,
and does well. “Diana of Dobson’s” will be
revived on Saturday for four nights, and the
season will finish with “Sunday”—to which
entertainment theatre-goers who book anywhere
within tear-radius of the upper circles are coun-
selled to bring their gamps, rain cloaks and
goloshes. For it is going to be a very lachrymose
show indeed.
■s{£ ■>&
Jack and Jill pursue the even tenor of
their song and dance at Her Majesty’s (Sydney).
The twain have been drawing full houses for so
long that they and their colleagues in and about
the old boot, which the Baron lets unfurnished to
Jack’s mother, have forgotten the color of the
Orchestra stalls, and have taken to wagering
purses of gold among themselves on the subject.
There is a new gamecock which attacks
its immense and bogus relative with rather less
spirit than its predecessor did. Furthermore, the
cranium of the baby owned by the Baron’s tea-
maniacal sister is taking on a more frayed appear-
ance than of yore, owing to the repeated insertion
into it of outsize safety-pins. Otherwise, the
status quo is maintained.
** * *
“ Lucky Durham ” is doing well financially
and otherwise at Sydney Criterion. Undoubtedly
it is a play that goes straight to the great heart of
the man in the tram, and swells the same with
vague uplifting emotions; and incidentally with
questionings as to why wrong-doing isn’t publicly
castigated and scored off (as here) in his suburb,
now and then. The undying truth that unscrupu-
lous artistoerats who say “ damn,” and desert
helpless females, shall always have their castles
taken from them by splendid honest young fellows,
and then handed back under humiliating circum-
stances, is rammed home by excellent acting.
“ Lucky Durham ” is emphatically a millionaire
worth calling on.
*# * *
Musician Slapoffski, as watchful as a
desert cat, and seeming to conduct with an iron
hammer, put the Italian-made Egyptian opera
“Aida” on the platform of Sydney Town Hall
last Saturday night. The grand old man Verdi
wrote his melodious nightmare of battle, murder,
and slow death (by burying alive) at Cairo,
and in his score the melomaniacs see all
that is meant by the overworked phrase
“ local color.’’ “ Aida ” was staged in Sydney by
an imported Italian opera co. that was here in
1901, and in the interval the Ethiopian royal
maiden has not walked out of the self-sought
tomb into which she intruded to join her Egyptian
lover. A capital audience acknowledged the
prowess of Messrs. Slapoffski, Staell, and
Asprey in their second experiment of doing
grand opera in concert-platform guise. Mrs.
Slapoffski, in the rqje of the loving and
dying A'ida, sang with spirit and tragic passion-
ateness. Ranged in seated line, across the fore-
front of the stage, were the Egyptians and
Ethiopians represented by Mrs. Slapoffski, Miss
Muriel Barton, Miss Elsie Fischer, Messrs.
Andrew Black, Orme Darvell, Beauman, Mario
Eoldis and Harry Neil. Most of them seemed to
come out of a trance when their turn came to arise
and proclaim things in song. Backed by th e
most luscious and luxurious arrangements in
orchestra and chorus, the problem of “ Aida” was
solved.
** * *
Miss Florence Menkmeyer will give a
vocal recital, including scenes from grand opera,
in Sydney on June 15.
*# * *
“ Out on the Castlereagh,” Mr. J. C. Lee’s
comedy drama, will shortly start a run of five
nights, beginning May 31, and continuing on
June 1,2, 3 and 4. The Standard Theatre
(Sydney) will house the experiment.
** * *
The Crossley co. departs for foreign parts
on Friday from Adelaide. Instead of GO concerts,
the number for which the combination was
originally engaged, the tour was protracted by
the giving of 67 more. The contralto herself will
probably be again heard in the Commonwealth
within five years.
** * *
Chung Ling Soo will work his Chow
miracles for the last time at Sydney Tivoli on
Friday night, and the price of admission will bear
up bravely until he folds up his attractive posters
and fades from the scene. A stockwhip and
lassoo artist, for whom the programme claims kin-
ship with Australia’s most eminent bushrangers,
is now cutting the necks off bottles and flicking
the ash off a cigarette with a 24ft. lash ; but,
otherwise, the bill bears a brotherly resemblance
to several of its predecessors.
** * *
Adelaide’s amusements have been more
varied than important since the Shackleton cele-
brity gave his second lecture and departed. At
the Royal “My Partner ” has now made way for
“His Natural Life.” The new Empire variety-
theatre —which is a well-appointed house, and
seems to fill a popular want at popular prices—
has had the unusual honor of a “ command ” night
from the city mayor and council. All last week
the Kilties worked hard, day and night, at the
Exhibition, catering cannily for different national
tastes in turn; and once they good-naturedly
gathered at the new rink to fall about on wheels,
in full Highland costume.
** * *
“Sweet Nell of Old Drury,” revived at
Melbourne Princess’s, belongs to the order of
dramas that never get wrinkled with age. It may
exhaust its popularity with one generation of play-
goers, and be robbed by a mob of imitators of its
right to bloom again as a novelty in the distant
future, but it cannot become old-fashioned and N
out-of-date like any play of a period when clothes
and manners are equally unornamental. Thus far
“Sweet Nell” has net exhausted its popularity,
not by a.whole jugful. Some years have, passed
since Nellie Stewart first shouted “ Oranges ,!” in
Drury Lane, but Melbourne came in its thousands
to hear the old refrain on Saturday night. Her
mimicry of Judge Jeffries for the entertainment
of the swarthy “toff” who turns out to be
Charles the Twoth, was more applauded than
ever, and her costumery, after she had fallen from
her low estate into royal company, was admired
with renewed vehemence. A mighty fine part is
Mistress Gwvnne for a clever woman who looks
the character and knows every trick of her art.
There is everything to do, but the versatile actress
leaves nothing undone, save the song to King
Charles as she sits at the harpsichord. And the
only thing she overdoes is her boisterous laughter
in the first act. Those excessive bursts of hilarity
indicate the orange girl; but then this was an
exceptional young woman, distinguished by an
adjective in front of her Nell. Though Miss
Stewart’s voice is very husky of late, she might
tone it down without being any the less audible
to the boy at the back of the amphitheatre.
The importance of clothes, wigs and de-
portment in this gaudy comedy-drama is
shown in the fact that the present co. is
very like the first co. that played “Sweet Nell.”
The giddy monarch (Claude King) is older and
more staid than his predecessor, but he would
pass for the other King’s brother. Lord Rochester
(Templer Powell), Lord Lovelace (Wingfield),
Lady Castlemaine (Miss Meredith), the Duchess
of Portsmouth (Miss Chard), and Lady Olivia
Vernon (Miss Vayne) remind one that different
people formerly walked and talked and grouped
themselves in similar array. The performance is
not less pleasingly spectacular than it was. If
the King looks older. Judge Jeffries balances the
account by looking younger than of yore. Frederick
Moyes plays the part of the gory Judge
moderately well, and sniffs imaginary snuff in an
easy manner, as though he were executing trills
on a flute with his nose. Sir Roger Fairfax
(A. J. Patrick) is distinctly weak, notwithstanding
his efficient wardrobe ; but Tapping, as the old
act-or, is the original Tapping, and he stage-
manages the play as of yore. It was remarked,
however, that the King doesn’t follow the de-
parting Nell to.the top of the staircase,, as he.did
when he was younger and more emotional.
* -:!c- it *
Judging from the first-night reception of
“An Englishman’s Home,” at Her Majesty’s, this
unique play, with its moral protruding from the
centre, is likely to be pretty generally witnessed
and understood in Melbourne. The atmosphere
of the story will be foreign to the large majority
of the audiences (the acting, for the most part,
makes it more foreign than it should be), and the
rapid development of plot from the latter part of
the first act to the suddenly-falsified finale, requires
a quicker intelligence in appreciation than is
ordinarily required of the public. Yet the Effect
is so directly traceable to Cause, and the moral
so stirringly appealing, that the dullest persons
should be interested. If they are not interested,
the blame rests with the performance rather
than with the dramatist. “An Englishman’s
Home” is a better constructed farcical-tragedy
than the present writer had expected. There
are two notable faults in the story. An in-
vasion of England as far as Mr. Brown’s
villa, in Essex, to the utter amazement of
Brown’s family when the invaders arrive, is
made possible by a strike of telegraph operators
and, presumably, postmen also. The conveyance of
news by Government channels has ceased for days.
Moreover, the district is wrapped in a fog.which
paralyses the natives, but is no obstacle to the inva-
ders. These points are presented at the outset only
to be ignored afterwards. The second obvious
defect in the drama is the “Rule Britannia’
climax—or anti-climax—illogical, trumpery, pre-
posterous. The management might at least cut


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
Jag INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining: its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
this tail off, and throw it to the cat. Before the
volunteers have abandoned Myrtle v ilia
adjutant has hinted that the British Regular
troops are on a fair way to euchre the invaders,
so why not leave “Rule Britannia to be im-
agined. Anyway, the war shouldn tbe supposed
to terminate at Brown’s busted domicile, And
again, how completely is the military moral nulli-
fied by this sudden discomfiture of Prince Yoland.
What kind of a general is he, and where are his
troops, that a motley crowd of the enemy can
come and take him by surprise at his temporary
head-quarters ?
The great success of ‘ ‘ An Englishman s
Home ” in London argues that it was supplied
with the true atmosphere of local suburban life.
Under the necessary surface of satirical exaggera-
tion-necessary because an exact suggestion of
a typical Mr. Brown’s, or anybody else’s, domestic
environment would be insufferably slow the
effect must have been convincing. At Her
Majesty’s, it isn’t convincing. The two young
sons of Brown pater are obviously not so young
as they pretend to be, and the speech and actions
of Reggie Brown in particular are the merest
mummerism until the ceiling begins to fall on
him and terror moves him to flight. He flies
naturally enough. The objections to Geof.
Wmith, the violently cockney friend of the family,
are his awful vociferousness and his transparent
make-up—as he was seen and heard by this
writer on Saturday. Cyril Mackay’s manner
of acting the unwholesome giddy goat who sups on
music-hall jokelets and dreams of football matches
may be technically correct, but one notices all the
time that his natural voice and face are disguised.
Eardley Turner’s picture of Brown is quietly
natural, though a trifle lacking in pomposity, and
one of the girls—Miss Gleeson—is very accept-
able, both in the time of peace and on the day of
judgment when her nerves have been shattered.
Mis Ola Humphrey, too, as the comparatively
thoughtful girl of the party, overcomes many of
her American disadvantages; but she is enveloped
in foreign atmosphere when she drops into senti-
mental converse with Henry Kolker. Kolker is
supposed to be Paul Robinson —the cockney anti-
thesis of Geof. Smith. He is practically patriotic
in his ideas—-the steady-going young Englishman
in the minority who has a contempt for his fellows
in the majority. At last he blazes with a
verbal fire which is unmistakably American, and
rather Germ an-’Murkan at that. Kolker is the
nearest approach to a hero that “ An Englishman’s
Home ” contains. And his is the most un-English
personality in the piece. Plimmer, Greenaway
and others present the dignified invaders in a
forcible style; also Stephenson, as the British
adjutant, is well placed. Except that Captain
Cainbourne seems insufficiently flurried, the cock-
ney volunteer incapable* are a humorous contin-
gent of simple facts. Dion Titheradge, as Lieut.
Jackson, is just lovely in his truthfulness. He
embodies all the helplessness of the “ men ” under
his charge, and in his soft-spoken statements of
his dilemmas he is just It. There are 100.000
young Jacksons among the well-to-do middle
classes of London.
■* ■** *
The gunpowder and mechanical effects in
the bombardment of Myrtle Villa should help to
advertise the novelty of “An Englishman’s
Home.” And it starts in Melbourne with the
added attraction of the curtain-raiser, “After the
Opera,” which was, produced in Sydney only a
fortnight ago. The success of this, brief and thril-
ling dramatic episode was chronicled in The
Bulletin pf the 6th.
$ 4* * *
The reproduction of “ Struck Oil ” at Mel-
bourne Royal last Saturday night was a senti-
mental furore—the furore of people of old memories
extolling people with old parts. In that sense it
was the pardonable applause of age for age.
There was little in the show that did not leave a
sensation of antiquity flinging a leg in a gouty
d ance. Miss Maggie, Moore is no longer applicable
,to the sorrows of the Stofel family. She cannot
part with her “fader” without being uncon-
sciously droll. The lady has committed a sin, audit
is the uproarioussin of size. Theyearshave brought
her a generous embonpoint, a genial double chin,
and the frantic suspicion of a waddle. Hence she
may look happy, trivial, and ponderously frivol-
ous ; but she can never look thoroughly sad. Of
course, she is not the Lizzie Stofel that she was
—which seems rather a superfluous remark, con-
sidering that she was not half the Maggie that she
is. Her singing, too, is just tolerable as a sweet
and venerable relic.
* « * *
H. R. Roberts, as John Stofel, displays
the ease born of long practice in Stofel
language. He plays the part mostly with the
utter negligence of utter confidence, but even in
the scene of the cranky Stofel’s return to his
“Leezie,”he is not entirely convincing. He is
always interesting, but somehow his Stofel looks
more like a stencil than a revelation. As for the
support, it is various variations of ordinary. Cer-
tainly John F. Forde gives a passable and highly
unctuous picture of Deacon Skinner, but the
others —especially Miss Beatrice Esmond as Susan
Stofel—have an almost overwhelming common-
placeness.
* * -M.- *■
At the King’s, where the wattle bough
trembles when balmy winds blow, and each dew-
laden damper resembles a poultice of dough,
“The Man from Outback” continues to make
mad the guilty and appal the free. No flies have
settled on Dave or his dawg during the past week.
He still dares Duggan, the cattle-duffer, to do his
worst, with the result that Duggan meets his
doom, and leaves his raucous widow, Wild Kate,
to wed David’s lame and long-lost brother. Kate
seems a terribly wild sort of female to take into
the family ; but, on the other hand, Dave’s in-
tended is rather too tame, and when the two
ladies are sisters-in-law they will be able to form
a mutual imprdvement society, with power to add
to their number.
** * *
“ L’Assommoir,” the new art film at Mel-
bourne Olympic, is a sermon on the results of con-
tinuous imperial jags. It shows various incidents
in the rather repulsive degeneration of Coupeau
from a respectable citizen to a dipsomaniac, and
serves up at the end that individual’s last terrible
struggle with the blue tigers of his imagination.
The scene where he attempts to strangle the
menagerie of his mind, and then perishes over a
table, either from sheer terror or from sheer drink,
is enough to drive a person to limejuice or sarsapa-
rilla.
** * *
At the Glaciarium, J. and N. Tait are
revealing an obscure and intricate picture
yarn called “ Kidnapped,” which commences
conventionally with the kidnapping of an adored
child, and ends up conventionally with its restora-
tion to its pa and ma. Alsd shown : “Industrial
India,” depicting the laborious ingenuity with
which our black brudder does his work, and also
the cleverness with which he escapes pure nudity
with such an atom of shirt. J. and N. Tait
retreat from the Glaciariuin after next Monday,
as that spacious place of rendezvous is required
for ice skating. They, however, have arranged
to show their pictures on every night in the week,
bar Sundays, in Melbourne city and various
suburbs. That is to say, their show will have
possibly six different addresses each week.
** * *
The Rickards’ programme at Melbourne
Opera House was brightened on Saturday by the
arrival of R. H. Douglass, who strikes one as
being the Mel. B. Spurr of vaudeville. Douglass
is a keen, brisk monologuer with an accomplished
pair of dancing legs—a humorist at all points of
him. His patter and imitations are good, and his
sketch of a stage rehearsal, wherein he puts the
girl phantoms of his brain through their imaginary
DALE AND O'MALLEY , “ England's
greatest comedy and cross-patter artists ,”
Melbourne Opera House.
paces, and shows them what they have failed to
do, is a bit—and a long, meaty bit—of first-class
comedy. Tom Woottwell returned to Melbourne
light on the same occasion with some songs not
quite as catchy as his best of the long ago, but with
the same old grotesque method of rendering them.
For the rest, there are the Laurels, G. W. Hunter
and others as before.
-iff its iff
“ 0.K.” : The prospectus of the Repertory
Theatre promoters includes one bit of very uncon-
vincing hifalutin :
In connection with the theatre it is proposed to estab-
lish gradually a Dramatic School. The pupils would have
the benefit of attending all reh arsais and watching
the methods of careful and artistic stage management.
It would soon be found that the young native talent
would be capable of supplying the place of imported
artists, and in a few years Australia would have just
cause to be proud of a theatre where the finest works of
authors, both past and present, were being interpreted by
Australians for Australians.
Any uninformed person would suppose from this
that the existing theatres of Australia are not
schools for “native talent,” whereas the
fact is that the imported “star,” with,
perhaps, four or five other imported principals
in attendance, is being more and more asso-
ciated with local performers. Every large
Australian co. is a school of acting, in which the
number of scholars increases as time goes on.
The only Ibsen plays that have been produced in
this country were peopled considerably, if not
mainly, by Australian actors and actresses. It is
the exception for a Shakspeare play to be pro-
duced with imported people in minor parts —and
minor parts in Sbakspeare are essentially schol-
astic. Twenty years ago Essie Jenyns headed an
all Australian co. in a round of Shakspearian pro-
ductions. -The public gave that co. a more
generous support than it gave to Musgrove’s
co. of some seven years back, which was mainly an
imported crowd. It isn’t the encouragement of
“ native talent” that is so hard to obtain as the
patronage for plays of the type that a Repertory
Theatre co. would produce.
Albani is now reduced to the necessity of singing at
third-rate music halls in London and suburbs—such as
the Metropolitan (the “Met”) in the Edgware-road and
the Chelsea Palace. Her engagements are for a week
only, and even an English music-hall audience, with its
reverence for names, doesn’t always want a return visit
from the voice of poor Albani.
An ancient statute of George 11, raised
its untidy head in a Sydney police court last
week and smote one of the lieges of Edward VII.
just where he least expected. The defendant
owed his landlord 495. Instead of paying he
removed at daylight one morning by the back
door. The aggrieved landlord sued him under the
senile statute mentioned, and got a verdict for
£lO, being twice the value of the goods which
went out at the back door and Costs. The Act is
an instance of the British law’s veneration for the
blessed landlord. Had the person who fled owed
his butcher, milkman or vegetable John 495., the
creditor would have been lucky to get a verdict
for the bare amount, let alone one for four times
the stun due.
A paragraph in “Political Points” last
week mentioned that it would probably be another
year before the resumed portions of the Peel River
Estate, Tainworth, N.S.W., would be available
for distribution. It proves, however, that the
estate has already been subdivided into 232 farms,
of which 213 will be available for application on
June 7, 1909, and the remaining 19 on June 14 the
same year. The farms available on June 7 range
from 1331 to 1280 acres, worth from £l3OO to
£3370. The other 19 are smaller farms, within
miles of the town of Tamworth, and worth
from £3O to £7B. The whole of the land is
eminently suitable for grazing and mixed farm-
ing, in a well-watered district, with a good healthy
climate, and within reasonable distance of
markets and port. The terms are liberal : 5 per
cent, deposit, and the balance, including principal
and interest at 4 per cent., in annual payments
spread over a period of 38 years. Full particulars
are. obtainable from any Crown land agent in
N.S.W., or direct from the Information Bureau,
Department of Lands, Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“M.”: The use of the word “Damn” as a laugh-
briuger is becoming: increasingly common on the stage,
and the curt, sudden swear is often put in the mouths of
female characters. More’s the pity, for it’s as cheap as
the lingerie jokes and the painted nose of the funny man.
But there are times—as, for instance, in “Lucky Dur-
ham,” when the middle-aged Lady Mountfailon bewails
the financial crash of the family, and bitterly inquires
why she married a poor lord when she might have had a
rich duke. Just as bitterly Lord Mountfailon replies:
“ I thought you married me for love.” The lady’s eyes
snap viciously as she exclaims: “ Love 1 What damn rot
at your time of life 1 ” Somehow, it seems to be the only
thing she can say.
The amazingly popular, though quite over-rated,
“ Merry Widow ” has been played in 13 languages, and
well on for 2U,U00 times. And yet—French as it is in set-
ting and in spirit—Paris had not until this Easter seen it
at ail.
“Harrison O.”: I rise with my plumed helmet in my
hand to apologise to The Bulletin’s Adelaide critic for-
having, as he says, “caught him bending.” He is quite
right when he says it is the third, and not, as I stated,
the fourth act of “ The Girl of the Golden West,” which
contains the awful mutual improvement class foolery.
The unnecessary fourth act (which lasts about 4J
minutes) I regarded merely as a sort of epilogue, but I find
upon referring to my programme that J.G. VV. prefers to
designate it “ Act IV.” Therefore, if I should ever meet
your Adelaide critic anywhere, I will make it my business
to shout. But, nevertneless, I venture to disagree with
him when he says that the third act of the show is neces-
sary, and that the play could not exist without it. in
my humble opinion, it is supremely unnecessary, and
appears to have been tacked on to allow of a conven-
tional and most absurd “happy ending.” It detracts
from any slight merit the play may possess in the same
manner "as does the ridiculous entry of the motley British
soldiery and sailory in the final convulsion of “An
Englishman’s Home.” If, in an evil moment, Ibsen had
written “The Girl of the Golden West,” he would have
begun w'here Belasco starts bis second act, and finished
without either the third or the fourth act. The play
would gain in dramatic force if condensed into a single
shriek. The first spasm in Belaseo’s sin is merely a
curtain-raiser, and the two last howls are anti-climaxes.
S. Snell: I think “Diana of Dobson’s” the most
sedentary play ever staged. Nobody is on his legs for
five minutes throughout the four acts, and never is a
character called upon to rise to the occasion, all the
effects being secured in recumbent attitudes. In Act I.
the girls say their little pieces squatting on beds. In
Act 11. everybody is sitting on settees explaining. In
Act 111. the same people are sitting on the same settees,
offering further explanations. In Act IV. the characters
■necessary to the ending of the uneventful history are
roosting on one of the benches in the park. The hero
only rises once to borrow a bob off a policeman in order
that he may buy two breakfasts at a coffee stall, and the
heroine doesn’t rise at all. In fact, it is a mistake to say
“Diana of Dobson’s ” has four acts. It has four sittings,
like an Anglican synod or a Presbyterian general assembly.
“ Harrison O.”: A chimpanzee, by name “ Consul,”
whose owner claims for it —with apparent justice—the
title of the Cleverest Ape in the World, has been perform-
ing in London. The naturalness with which the beast goes
through his scene is reported as amazing. Consul walks
on to the stage (“set ” as a restaurant) fully takes
off his hat and overcoat and hangs them upon adjacent
pegs, then, with what one paper describes as an “ air of
polite boredom,” looks round for the waiter. Waiter (a
mere human) enters and presents menu. Consul signifies
his penchant for carrots. When these are brought he
falls to using a knife and fork ; he likewise pours himself
out a glass of claret and water, which he sips at intervals.
In fact, lie goes through a whole blamed dinner, pouring-
out his tea and adding milk and sugar thereto, and
tasting it two or three times from hisspoon before imbibing
it. Having disposed of all available grub and moisture, he
presses a bell-button and dumbly demands a cigarette,
which when brought he lights (with a match) and smokes
(with apparent enjoyment). The ape also goes through
a bedroom pantomime; undresses (he wears coat, un-
mentionables and shirt), goes over to a wash-basin
and slushes his face and neck, and brushes his
teeth before finally inserting himself between the
sheets. He later gets up, goes through a few exercises,
dresses and rides off the stage on a bike. Consul’s owner
claims that the beast has not been trained in the ortho-
dox sense of the word, but has for over six years lived
with his (the boss’s) family, to the collective bosom of
which he was taken at the age of nine months. Consul
has his own bed in the house, eats whatever is going
(eggs, bacon, etc.), drinks claret, tea, cocoa, coffee and
ale, smokes 24 cigarettes a day, and has his own banking
account. His signature (which he takes over a minute to
write) upon cheques is accepted by the banking people.
He can manipulate a typewriter, though, of course, only
covering his paper with a meaningless jumble of letters,
but never forgetting to type his name in capitals in the
bottom right-hand corner of the sheet. There can be no
doubt that these things are being carried top far. It was
not thus in the good old days before Federation.
Amy Castles, whose voice is subject to’natural fits of
depression during the British winter, was said-to be sing-
ing brilliantly at a concert in Dublin lately. She gave a
recitative and air from Balfe’s old opera, “ The Rose of
Castile,” and it is in such floridly melodious numbers that
the sweetness of the Castles warble is best displayed.
But seemingly Amy is no nearer than she was 10 years ago
to her predicted triumphs in grand opera. She was 19 in
the year of her first Australian boom when she de-
parted for Paris to be trained for “ another Melba "career,
and she will be 29 this year of her second return to Aus-
tralia. Her voice should be at its prime,. Any further
talk of i ts operatic triumphs in the future would be absurd.
A trial production at “ An Englishman’s Home ” in
Atlantic City (New Jersey) indicated that the U.S. in
general, outside its big centres of cosmopolitan popula-
tion, takes no sort of interest in Britain’s burning topical
question. The play was staged by Charles Frohman,
with Australia’s old friend Bill Hawtrey .in the part of
Mr. Brown. Atlantic citizens didn’t rush in the first
place to sample the foreign story, and the uncrowded
audience that did sample it “seemed utterly unable to
grip the meaning or to realise the least inward signifi-
cance,” wired the New York correspondent of London
Daily Telegraph. Scornful citizens even shouted to the
box office after the performance—“ Give us back our
dough ! ” In cabling the failure of the too-English drama
in Atlantic City, the D.T. correspondent cast an interest-
ing reflection on American dramatic criticism. He said :
“ I note that the verdict of the audience last night is not
shared by the newspapers published this morning, hut
these were; doubtless written from advance notices of
the play, and not from actual bitter experience.”
“S.S.”: “ A feature of “The Man from Outback” (at
Melbourne King’s) is Roy Redgrave’s emotional appreci-
ation of the damper. The actor waves on high a plausible
imitation of the camp crumpet, and the comic man makes
derogatory remarks. He is sternly rebuked, and then
the hero, in the stock attitude which melodramatic
heroes always assume when about to say intense things con-
cerning the British flag, speaks a eulogy of the bushman’s
bread, in a voice choked with sentiment. The house
recognises the symptoms, and is hushed while Dave Goul-
burn explains that the damper is the secret source of Aus-
tralia’s greatness, and points out that it must never be
despised, because, as the grateful edible that was gnawed
by the explorer and the pioneer, it helped to make our
country what it is. That heart cry gives “ The Man from
Outback ” fair claim to consideration as a patriotic drama.
Never shall I have the conscience to backbite a damper
again.
“ Adelaide ”: Who is the literary expert of Spencer’s
Theatrescope co.? He is quite too timid for a showman.
For instance, he says: “ By the excellent scenes we are
enabled, so to speak, to hold the mirror, as it were, up to
Nature.” It sounds like a bit from a Henry James novel.
Or consider this literary gem : “ Our hero is waited for at
the stage door by a crowd of women and g rls, which
illustrates series that often occur here, whereby the full-
some adulation shown to certain star actors is realistic.”
Half the time his stuff reads as if it were translated
literally from the French or the Jap. Perhaps it is.
“Thesp”: The public testified to its “ overwhelming
enthusiasm” on behalf of the Dreadnought project in
contradictory fashion in connection with the recent
Sydney Tivoli matinbe show —instituted with the sole
object of propping up the Empire by raising cash for the
Allen Taylor fund. The house has a cash-holding capacity
of well-nigh £2OO. Since that astute showman, Chung
Ling Soo, has arrived from Asia or the Bowery or
Lambeth, or wherever it is he calls home, there
had, until the Dreadnought matinee came along, hardly
been standing room at any performance whether evening
or afternoon. Chung has drawn the populace to him
like any blister. He made the one failure of his season
here on Dreadnought matinee day. The published figures
show that the entire takings—in which, by the way, the
proceeds from the sale of sweets, etc., is included —
amounted to £57 4s. fid. We thus arrive at the baffling-
conclusion that the public, which, allegedly, is fairly
rampant to give Old Mother a Dreadnought, no matter
how much she may protest that she doesn’t want it, stays
away in large numbers from a theatrical show designed
to further the end it is said to be mad for, and goes in
preference to the same show when the proceeds are des-
tined, not for the Empire at large, but for the privy
pouch of Harry Rickards. It is an unusual method of
demonstrating enthusiasm—in fact, it looks rather like
angry protest ; but presumably the chronic Dread-
noughter would have a satisfactory explanation of it.
“Mole” (from the West): Apropos Harry Rickards’
intention to shun Westralia for the future (B. 15/4/’O9).
Jack Johnson is the fount and origin of it. The West is
the California of Australia. It abhors niggers with an
immense abhorrence. There were no bands playing
the “Conquering Hero” here when the flattener of
Burns eventuated. The ’Gropers failed absolutely to
reward Rickards for the gold he had strewn in the dusky
puncher’s path. They’d have far sooner filled Johnson
with blue-metal ! Rickards advertised that Bill Lang
would appear, and Bill didn’t; wherefore there was dis-
appointment, for nobody wanted to pay to hear and see
the coon on his own.
“ Marroo ” : Wilson Barrett evidently got his idea of
the character of John Durham from “ The Charity Ball,”
a little known (in these parts) play by David Belasco. It
was produced by Tyrone Power during a brief and ill-
starred season in this country eight years ago.
The leading juvenile in Belasco’s comedy-drama is
a pushful, Yankee, of some culture and education, who
makes determined love to a girl on the first occasion
of meeting. The part was played by William F. Grant,
who had got his first leg-up from the ranks of the supers,
twelve months before, when he was the Laird to Edith
Crane’s Trilby. “ The Charity Ball ” only ran fora week,
but Wilson Barrett, then in this country, saw Grant in
the piece, and was so pleased with the young actor’s
work that he offered to take him to England. Grant
accepted, went to the Bull Country, and played with
Barrett in many productions. Finally he was sent out as
leading man of a touring company, which performed
“East Lynne” and other horrors, and when “Lucky
Durham” was ready he produced it in the provinces.
Grant was Durham, and made a hit in the part. He is
one of the Australians who may return to his native land
years hence as “the talented English star.”
Another ’Murkan actress of the “ vaudeville come-
diem e” order has met with dismal failure in London,
Marie Dressier, to wit. Marie flew across the herring
pond, bringing tidings of great joy. She was going to
introduce something excitingly novel in frivolous enter-
tainment, and the London press took the Yankee lady
very seriously. There were any number of interviews
with Marie Dressier, and announcements of her deep-laid
plans. She was to do everything save what had ever
been done before in light entertainment. London was
practically exhorted to see Marie Dressier and die. She
took the Aldwych Theatre, and after a brief struggle
with an inane show Marie disappeared from London,
deeply lamented by her creditors. When somebody sued
her for breach of contract and unpaid salary, at West-
minster County Court, a legal gentleman stated that Miss
Dressier had gone abroad for the benefit of her health.
This was the" only surprise that the preliminary inter-
viewers had not been led to expect of Marie Dressier.
One of the most dreary features of London’s alleged
comic journals of the present day is the endless flow of
suffragette jokes. All the old yarns and arguments and
tomfoolishness that the Tory journals of Australia handed
out 20 years back in opposing the women’s vote are being
resurrected for the delectation of the British fatman.
But even more tiresome to the Australian is the idiocy of
the imported comic singer who inflicts on local audiences
songs setting forth, in bad rhyme, what the Aiigus used
to say when we were at school. Hasn’t Harry Rickards
anybody who can tell England’s greatest Character
comedians that women have had votes here for almost .a
lifetime, and that witticisms about their desire for votes
are just about as up-to-date as the saga the cave man
used to chant about the death of the pterodactyl?
“ Stargazer ” : I wonder J. C. Williamson does not give
Walter Baker a chance to coruscate in parts such as
plump, elderly Ju Knight has been handling in Australia
for so long. Tn the hands of an acute stage manager,
Baker is capable of being rounded off into a fine swash-
buckler of the “ Three Musketeers ” type. He should just
about do the “ Prisoner of Zenda” hero to a turn ; and he
would probably surprise Australian theatregoers, who
have only seen him as the victim of villainy and
the pillar' of virtue in flagrant melodrama, if he had
a, chance, to play even quieter and more rational
types, such as Kingston has had the handling of.
l am sure there are many who would be delighted to see
•Walter swaggering in elegant costumes, and putting the
enemy to the sword in semi-intellectual plays, and untjil
he has had a square chance it seems to me that the im-
portation of third-raters from abroad is wasteful and
ridiculous excess.
The Fisher Government, if it has to go
out, would probably prefer to be ejected bv a
Forrest-Irvine combination. It feels confident
that the spectacle of Bigjohn going to the country
in company with Irvine would just about wreck
the last chance of the Tory party. Bigjohn has in
his time humped heavy swags through strange
country ; but the humping of Irvine through the
wilderness of Australian Democratic opinion
would almost certainly he beyond his strength,
even though he is in the Clydesdale division as a
weight-carrier.
FORTY YEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Be yours the blonde, the champagne-cup,
O Youth, be wit your gage,
Red wine, brunette, for forty-year,
Chartreuse for mellow age.
Since youth is brief, enjoy, drink deep
Of golden nectar, lest
So fair a guest be starved to death ;
Take all, and give your best.
A butterfly, be flattered, dazed
With high-lights, gleam and sheen
Of scarlet lips and amber hair,
And rare blue eyes between.
Be mad and drink from Folly’s lips,
Be sane and plight your troth ;
At forty-year, O Butterfly,
You’ll be a wise brown moth !
A moth, and weave a sober dream
Of half-tones, umber, grey ;
Within the blaze of rose and gold
You’ll burn your youth away.
Remembered daydreams, feast and valse,
May not perplex the night;
The shadow holds more mystery
And rhythm than the light.
Far-off the miracle of youth,
The dream of wine and tears ;
Tue rhythm of one soul and yours
Be guerdon for your years.
For youth, the blonde, the champagne-cup,
With laughter, tears, for gage ;
Red wine, brunette, for forty-year,
Chartreuse for mellow age.
N.s.w.
W. M. WHITNEY.


SHAVING COMFORT
A Good Shave requires a Good Razor.
Tshe AUTO-STROP SAFETY
is the razor for those who must have a quick, clean, safe shave. It automatically
strops itself, and is to be had in a case with 12 extra Blades, Strop, and book of
simple directions complete.
Price - 255.
Tshe GILLETTE SAFETY
is a good, strong razor constructed on much the same lines as the Auto-Strop. It
is sold in a handy case, 3£in. x 2in., with 10 extra Blades and book of directions.
Price - - - -21 s.
We send these goods carriage paid throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONE.S LTD., SYDNEY.
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
98 KING STREET, —SYDNEY.
Watch and Jewellery Repairs by Post or otherwise
receive Expert and Prompt Attention.
£:3f' Noted for Watches of Finest Quality.
Here’s something Special in Watches :
H. 8 K. Solid Silver Keyless Lever,
fully jewelled, and replete with all the
latest brainy improvements.
This watch has compensation balance,
and is of perfect movement. It will keep
excellent time in any climate.
PRICE £2 lOs.
Also Silver Waltham Watch, reliable
timekeeper, 455., both guaranteed for five
years. There is nothing to touch these
watches for quality and value.
A splendid Solid Silver Hall-marked
Double Curb Albert Chain for only 7s. 6d.
We pay carriage to any address.
Illustrated Catalogue mailed free.
SOCIETY
EXTENSIVE PATRIOTISM.
ELDERLY TRAVELLER: “I suppose you have a
local Dreadnought fund here."
BARMAN : “ Yes , there were two subscribers—me
and the boss. He gave the Dread and I gave
the nought ."
There is one thing to be said for Amy
Bock, of Maoriland—when she put on the male
tail-coat and pot-hat and went a-marrying, she
did the thing properly, even as that great man
Jenkins said it should be done when he waved his
hand in Melbourne. Nugget Bay, where she
made her recent splash, is a quiet, unobtrusive
little place ; and Amy, in male clo’, shook it up.
The inhabitants think well of her. She made the
place famous, and gave it a real good time.
Arranging all the details of the ceremony, she
fixed the number of bridesmaids that her best girl
was to have at 10, an excess of lavishness which
knocked Nugget Bay quite silly. Having-decided
that the local carriages were not up to the stan-
dard of her (or his) wedding, special vehicles were
brought from Dunedin regardless of expense. The
master of ceremonies was handed a letter from
the bridegroom’s mother regretting that she could
not be present at her boy’s marriage, as his sister
had gone and done likewise on the self-same day.
Which caused the company to remark that the
.said sister was a selfish cat. When she signed the
roster, it was as “Leonard Percival Carol Red-
wood, third son of the late P. C. Redwood, Esq.,
of Hamilton, nephew of his Grace Archbishop
Redwood.” The bride may feel that she has been
badly fooled ; but at least she has the consolation
of knowing that her bogus wedding eclipsed all
the real ones that have ever taken place at Nugget
Bay.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant speaks:
The Sydney Female Refuge celebrated its diamond
jubilee on May 11. The Refuge was initiated at a
private gathering in the Castlereagh-street school-
house on August 21, 184 S. The meeting was presided
over by Alfred Stephen, and one of his sons, Mathew
Henry 7 , was a spokesman. Other speakers at the initial
meeting were Archdeacon Cowper, Rev. Thomas Boden-
ham, Rev. Joseph Beasley, Rev. W. B. Boyce, and Mr.
William Cape. On the committee were some historic
names—William Cowper, James B. Laughton, George
Thorne, George Allen, Robert Porter, Ambrose Foss,
Michael Metcalf, David Jones, John Neale, George Smythe,
G. A. Lloyd, W. A. Dobson, James Comrie, James Smith,
John Alexander, Thomas Cowlishaw and Thomas Hyndes.
About the same time the R.C.’s were starting similar
work. Both parties.applied to the Governor for building
sites. The easy-going Viceroy, Charles Fitzroy, sug-
gested that the forces should combine. The “forces”
strongly objected, and Fitzroy’s judgment was worthy of
Solomon. The old buildings known as Carter’s Barracks,
which stood on the corner of Pitt-street and Belmore-
road (it would be very difficult to point out the spot
now) represented the coveted position, and Fitzroy split
up the property between the two. For over half a cen-
tury the churches'worked side by side, but they might as
well have been at opposite Poles for all the help either
gave the other. The R.C.’s built largely, ereetihg exten-
sive schools and the Good Samaritan Refuges. The
people next door contented themselves with th.eir'primi-
tive surroundings. When O’Sullivan’s big railway station
came along both parties were compensated. The Romans
bought with their share George Allen’s old home at-Tox-
teth Park, Glebe ; while the “next door people” went
across the road, and with their money "bought the pro-
perty of George Allen’s son, George Wigram Allen, and
hung- out their shingle there. So the rival establishments
are still together.
Some figures that have been published
lately in England show what the undertaking
business is like in the town where good sanitary
conditions prevail compared with what it is in the
other towns where they don’t prevail/ Some
years ago, Cadbury, the cocoa man, established
the model manufacturing village of Bournville,
near Birmingham. After some years’ experience
it is found that the infant
mortality in the model town is
72'5 per 1000 births; in England
and Wales as a whole it is no
less than 134‘7 per 1000. The
general death rate in English
industrial centres is, 21 per
1000 ; in Bournville it is only
7’3. About 41 per cent, of the
population depends directly on
Cadbury’s works; but the
whole crowd the rest are
mostly Birmingham artisans—
have all the advantages of the
place. One idea insisted on at
the works for boys and girls is
two half-hours of Swedish drill;
even Cadbury, the Quaker, has
made up his mind that com-
pulsory training of some sort is
called for.
The eternal squabble over
the bill, which has .harassed so
many “ public ” men at differ-
ent times, broke out again at
Ballarat lately ; when the city
fathers had a wordy brawl as to
who should pay for entertain-
ing thatin offensive nonentity,
Sub - Excellency Carmichael.
The matter was finally com-
promised by the Mayor paying
for the chicken and champagne,
and the council, that is, the
ratepayers, for the chiffon and
bunting. The worst of these
squabbles is that the “repre-
sentative citizens” haven’t sense enough to
wrangle in private, or manners enough to
keep the guest’s name out of the proceedings.
The guest in most cases would rather bring his
own sandwich in his pocket than sit down to
turkey and < fizz with the knowledge that the
council fought six rounds over the bill, and that
one alderman is away with a black eye.
Something appropriate happened to Mel-
bourne’s ex-gaud Mayor, Enery Weedon, one day
.lately. His successor, gaud Mayor Burston,
handed him a rectangle of illuminated address in
humble token of his tremendous services to the
city and the cosmos. Which gift should be a God-
send to ’Enery. He can do with all the illumi-
nated address that he can get. His own address,
on divers occasions, has been very unilluminated,
not to say ungrammatical.
A NOBLER
QUALITY.
B ILL: “ There goes
your old woman, Jimmy!
Cripes, ain’t she fat!”
JIM MY (annoyed): “ That
ain’t fat, Bill, that's muscle.”
A cry from Fremantle (W.A.) :
Fremantle, which possesses an artificial harbor, and is
a mere casual incident in the logbook of ocean-going
steamers, claims to be the third port of the Commo-
nwealth in respect to tonnage. Occasionally half a mile of
wharf is lined with shipping for several hours, but that is
only when two. or three mail steamers. arrive simul-
taneously'. They lower a gangway, sling off a few tons of
cargo for the goldfields, and then breathlessly' scuttle on
their journey over the ocean wide. Twelve years ago the
railway workshops at Fremantle employed over 1000 men,
and something like 20,000 golden sovereigns were paid
out every month. Harbor works, smelters, and other wane-
distributing concerns were also helping. Everybody pros-
pered—the shopkeepers, the pub-keepers, the landlords
of vile, hug-infested shops and cottages most of all. One
old rum-dealer of the convict days, who owned streets of
shanties, reckoned that the Coolgardie gold rush added
£lOO,OOO to the value of his Fremantle properties, but he
steadfastly refused all communication with the blasted
tothersiders. He is still alive, and will leave anything up
to half a million. But things are not what they were.
Workshops, harbor works, smelters, and almost all the
other forms of industrial activity have vanished, and to-
day Fremantle is about as sick as the ex-Sultan of
Turkey. Boodlers worked the sale to the Government of
a dreary sand-patch at Midland Junction for railway
workshops, one reason assigned for the removal being
that the sea air of Fremantle was highly deleterious to
machinery. Of course there is no delicate machinery on
battleships or even mail steamers., Any'how the wage-
earners had to depart in a body. Then property owners
started to rebuild in a great hurry, for the tenant became
a scarce bird and had to be placated. Ten fine hotels
■were erected, but, with scarcely an exception, they
haven’t earned drinking expenses. Yet, ten years ago,
the man. who wanted a room wa! usually told there was
plenty of clean white sand on the beach, and the sea
air was highly invigorating. At the present moment
there are six banks in Fremantle, hut, as most of the
wholesale firms have shifted their headquarters to Perth,
one or two at most could do all the financial business of
the port and then only work half-time. High-street,
Fremantle, is dull and depressing- three and four shops
together beiqg to-let, whilst, the tenants of others are
obviously only saving burial expenses. Fremantle is full
of dead men walking about, and almost any corpse will
drink at your expense.
“ Dandalup’s ” wholly unconvincing narra-
tive :
Someone (B. 6/5/’O9) inquires about the strange-looking
Scandinavian gentleman who always lurks, both morning
and evening-, for about 12 hours under or near “the
clocks” at Flinders-street railway station, Melbourne. I
happen to be one of the very few- who: know his history.
This mysterious stranger (call him Peter) possessed a
charming helpmate. They: lived in amice, comfortable
little Queen Polly villa-r-.one of those with an ash-barrel
at the back—in Richmond, and were very affectionate—
especially Peter, who worshipped his wife. Then
the other man arrived and leaned his whiskers over
the fence, and the trouble commenced. Peter watched
her as a eat watches a mouse. He slung up his billet in
the local jam factory—slung, it so high that it hasn’t
come down even yet—and followed her about like a faith-
ful hound. Not for a moment did he leaVe her side,
until one fatal day about three weeks ago. They had
gone to town together, and were outside the Flinders-
street railway-station. “ Peter, dear,” she said softly,
“just wait. I’ll be back in a minute.” Peter hesitated,
and his suspicions flamed up again ; but, when he looked
down into her imploring eyes, he consented. ‘‘Two
minutes, dear! Mind you wait for me” —and she was
gone. Peter waited for sixteen hours-, and then the truth
dawned on him, and he went mad and barked at a letter-
box. When he was discharged from the hospital, six
months later, the first place he made for was the.railway-
station. There he waits, and has been waiting for many
years. It is a sad story.
Some details by this paper’s Oldest Inhabi-
tant :
The old homes of two Australian mothers, Mrs. E. P.
Marks, of Glenrook, Darling Point, and Mrs. Isabella
Martin, of Clairvaux, Rose Bay, have been broken up
under the auctioneer’s hammer. Mrs. Marks was one of
the three daughters of William Moffatt, who started busi-
ness as a bookbinder in King-street, in the mid-’twenties,
and removed into Pitt-street in the ’thirties. On Mr.
Moffatt’s death, his manager, Mr. Yeo, succeeded to the
business, and on his death the Penfolds came in. Mrs.
Martin, widow of Chief Justice Martin, was one of the
three daughters of William Long, who commenced life in
Sydney about the same time as Moffatt, as host of
the Saracen’s Head, in Gloueester-street. In IS3L
he came into George-street as landlord of the
Commercial Tavern, and soon after became a wine
and spirit merchant, and like Moffatt, the owner
of much city property’. He died at Tusculum,
Macleay-street, a house built in the mid ’thirties by A. B.
Sparke, the wine and spirit merchant who came down
in the commercial crash of the ’forties. Of the three
daughters of Moffatt but one remains—Mrs. Thorne,
of Macleay-street ; and of Long’s three, hut one, also
—Mrs. Cheeke, now resident in England. Apropos
William Long, an advertisement (June, 1832) will be of
interest :
YYTANTED, 40 stout laborers ; wages, six shillings
*' per week ; rations, 121 b. flour, 121 b. Iresh beef,
21b. sugar, Jib. tea, Jib. soap. Apply’, William Long,
Commercial Tavern, George-street. The undersigned
will employ 40 stout laborers at their wharf, Miller’s
Point, barling Harbor.
James Wright,
William Long,
Six bob a week and tucker ! The building upon which
Wright and Long were engaged was that known for yeais
afterwards as Moore’s Stores, at Moore’s Whaif, and now
known as Tyser’s. The idea in erecting the buildings
(they are as strong- as any gaol; the walls are 3ft. thick,
and the doors are iron) was to let or sell them to Govern-
ment as a receiving-house for newly-arrived prisoners.
But the Government did not catch on, and the affairs of
Wright and Long went into a sort of liquidation. So
Henry’ Moore became possessed of the wharf property,
and held it until the resumptions by' Government. James
Wright kept the Australian Brewery' at the corner of
George and Bathurst, streets. Long', like the phoenix,
arose from the ashes, but Wright merely plodded on until
his death in the early’fifties. He was succeeded in his
beer factory by Wm. Clarke, who, however, shortly ceased
to brew.
** * -
A comparatively godless old Wesleyan
pegged out in a hut near Wedderburn (Vic.)
t’other day. The lonely veteran left a will, in-
structing a trustee company to expend £350 in
annual treats to the poor children of the district.
Also he directed that the smallest possible portion
of his personal estate should be wasted in burying
him. He was a Wesleyan by birth, he said, but
he would like his body to be taken to the cemetery
in a dray, and planted just anywhere. If the
Baptists, Catholics or Anglicans would accept his
bones as food for their bit of consecrated ground,
they could have’em and welcome. He had no
prejudices. Nevertheless, the influence of his
up-bringing was unconsciously betrayed in his
reference to his unconcern about sectarian divisions
of cemetery. Had the old chap been born to
the Anglican Church persuasion, he never would
have troubled to mention the matter, or state his
indifference. He would have been too indiffereht
to think it worth while mentioning his foolish old
indifference.
HELL!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What a sensation when you awake in Hell!.. . There
will be no whisky there. . . . Hell has no bottom. Twenty
million years after you get there you will still be sinking-.
—Extract from an address on “ Hell ,” by a Yankee
revivalist.
This is a song of Hell!
Millions of devils, with scales and claws,
Yelling and wailing without a pause,
For full ten million years.
And all the while the lost souls sink,
With nothing to eat and less to drink,
For fifteen million years.
The beautiful song of Hell;
Devils of yellow, devils of blue,
Devils of every kind of hue !
Ho ! Twenty million years.
And there the poor lost souls awake,
And whisky beg their thirst to slake,
For thirty million years.
The cheerful song of Hell!
It doesn’t much matter what .you do ;
But you must think as the chosen few
Or, for forty 7 million years,
You’ll be dropping, a long and endless drop,
And howling to deyils to let you stop,
For seventy million years.
The orthodox song of Hell!
Men and women (and children too)
Will join the devils pink and blue,
For eighty million years.
And down through Hell they’ll whiz and burn,
With never a chance to stop or turn,
For ninety million years.
The song of the Endless Hell!
There is no end to the parson’s Hell;
And of its horrors he loves to tell,
For a hundred million y r ears.
And oft in his dreams he’s heard them yell,
As down to the devils his victims fell,
For a thousand billion years.
VICTORIA.
FRANK RAOCLIFFE.


Consider Your Health,
The hard labour of ordinary washing
with ordinary Soaps, the steam from the
constant boiling, and the mischief done by
the injurious materials of which some Soaps
are composed, bring on a variety of com-
plaints. Such troub'es can be avoided by
using Sunlight Soap which has the Guarantee
of Purity of Sir Charles A. Cameron, M.D.,
one of the most eminent analysts in the
world
By the use of Sunlight Soap the exhausting
strain on the muscles of the back and arms,
and friction to the skin of the hands are
reduced to a minimum, for Sunlight Soap
works if itself. It washes silently, secretly,
horoughly
The doctor said his lungs were gone,
And had no hope to offer, none.
His liver, too, was petrified.
And tougher than a lawyer's hide.
We saw him only yesterday
Quite well again at o"r,gee Bay !
«I’m a lung liver now,” said he,
* For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure cured me.”*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. , Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
Impressiveness m Dresswear.
DRESS and Dinner Suits are at a discount that are lading- behind
the correct vogue. Our illustration makes manifest this season’s
styles. Their whole atmosphere is one of exact dressing, com-
bined with comfort and good fit. Infinitely superior to the cheap
made-to-order suits, our Dress Suits for this season demonstrate the
splendid value that we are able of our extensive business to produce at
a moderate price.
With Centre Seam Back and Silk Lapel-
Dinner Coat, Plain Collar, and Vest
Trousers
With Plain Back Coat—
All-Silk Collar and Front Dinner Coat ..
Coat with Vest..' ..
Full Suit
Full Dress Coat only
With Vest
Suit
635.
18s. 6d.
425.
SOs.
68s. 6d.
635.
70s.
88s. 6d.
Peapes Co. Ltd.,
“ MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Melbourne police put in a good many
hours lately dredging the Yarra down Richmond
way for a presumed baby which two couples,
philandering along the river bank on a moonlight
night, saw another couple put in a bag and heave
overboard. The narratives of these four simply
bristled with details like those on the outside of a
porcupine—details about a man and woman of evil
countenance skulking in the shadow's, with some-
thing in a bag; of the whispers, the stealthy
approach to the water, the heave, and the pitiful
cries of the baby in the bag. While the
cops were still dragging, another impres-
sionist happened along with an affirmation that,
the following night, a couple had driven
down to the same spot in a buggy, and the man
held the woman’s umbrella while she wept bitterly
with one hand, and with the other gazed long and
earnestly at the spot where the baby had foun-
dered. After this performance, they solemnly
drove away. Also a clairvoyant, valorouslv risk-
ing a prosecution, wrote, offering to locate the
place where the poor innocent had gone down
with all on board. Then the Johns found, at the
exact spot to which they had been directed, an
ordinary, threepenny mongrel bagged along with
a brick. And the silence that ensued was only
broken by the language of the police. Query:
How many people are in gaol through the swear-
ing of imaginative characters like those who
“saw” that infant?
* * » *
Those saintly persons who allege that
marriages are made in Heaven may find some-
thing to ponder over in the case of Emily Dunn, a
desirable-looking girl of 20 or thereabouts. A
while back Emily bestowed her young affections
on Frederick Dunn, of Melbourne, and the two
were made one. But the Law presently separated
the young couple by handing Frederick five years’
tough employment. Whereupon he assured his
bride that for all he cared she could marry whom
she dashed well pleased, a wife being of no earthly
use to him where he was going ! Without
troubling about the formality of a divorce, Emily
espoused Sydney Dobell, whom the Law has also
since put under lock and key. Not satisfied with
“jugging” her two husbands, the insatiable Law
has since laid a detaining hand on Emily herself,
so that bright young creature seems born to hard
luck.
“Skeeter ” —his piece :
Since the par. (B. 6/5/’O9) on the passing of Eureka
veterans two more of the extensive tribe have gone aloft,
THE MERRY WIDOW HAT. ALSO ITS
ADVANTAGES.
leaving little behind save a lamentable heap of doubt. lam
told on reliable authority that if the files of the Common-
wealth press for the past 50 years were consulted, one
would find that the recorded deaths of “ veterans who
fought at Eureka ” total anything up to 2000 odd. And
yet there were not more than 200 patriots in the stockade.
What with one thing and another, the dead or moribund
Eurekaite is getting somewhat on the public’s nerves.
Things have come to such a pass of recent years that the
time looms when the veteran who passes will base his
chief claim to mundane glory on the fact that he did
not fight at Eureka. Already there are some oldsters here
now who, if you say “ Eureka,” regard you with a hostile
eye and mutter of the reprisals they would have per-
mitted themselves if you had thus leg-pulled them in
their lusty youth.
“J.Y.” (Maoriland) : I recently assisted
to conduct a License /;. No-License fight in Joseph
Ward’s Dominion, where the pubbery is rapidly
becoming a thing of the past. Election day
arrived and feeling was very strong.
Beer was holding up its end fairly well
till about 3 o’clock in the afternoon.
Then a glittering landau hove in sight.
It contained Mrs. Hotelkeeper in costly
silk and massive golden jewellery, also
Miss Pub and the Misses Hebe in
floral robes and Merry Widow hats.
The swish of the shimmery clothing
could be plainly heard as they stepped
across the footpath to the polling booth
to vote for “ continuation.” That
settled it. The average housewife in
her common gown, and the ordinary
young lady in last year’s spotted print
frock, marched for their ballot papers
with grim determination, and thereafter
could be heard the vicious score of the
fatal blue pencil scratching out the top
line. No-license was carried by 23
votes, and Mrs. Hotelkeeper and Miss
Pub and the Misses Hebe are among
the unemployed.
Melbourne is paying a trifle of
attiontion to a murder that threatens to
reach the same conclusion as did those
of diamond merchant Bauer and Madge
Graham. In a small cottage in a Rich-
mond back street dwelt an aged widow
named Gallagher. Alongside was a
detached cottage owned by her and
occupied by a butcher, one Arthur
O’Sullivan, whose wife and children are
on a visit to Sydney.' Next door again
dwelt, alone, Miss Murphy, also an
elderly lady of retiring habits. On
May ilth, about noon, Miss Murphy
called to see Mrs. Gallagher, and found
her lying dead, with severe wounds
about her head and an unpleasant gash
in her throat. The lady has since
been buried and a large proportion of
Melbourne has called and inspected
the premises ; but beyond gazingat the
house and advancing more or less absurd
theories, nobody has advanced the in-
quiry one inch. A butcher’s steel was
discovered under the deceased’s bed,
and O’Sullivan admitted that it was
his property, and had been lying
round for some time. He has been
arrested and charged with murder. So
far no weapon explaining the gash in
the throat has been discovered, nor
has any motive for the crime been
elucidated—unless the acquiring of a
little small change could be considered a
motive. Meanwhile O’Sullivan, who is
a pleasant-looking person, disadvan-
taged by being a butcher, maintains a
calm and peaceful demeanor and waits the course
of events with unusual patience.
* * * *
S. M. Herald published this queer out-
burst last week from one Wassiamull Assomull,
of India :
Some few years ago I joined the business of Wassiamull
Assomull and Co., in Melbourne, and was subsequently
selected by my partners to establish a branch in this
State.- We have been open for some time, and 1 find the
very greatest difficulty to contend with in allowing me
to successfully conduct my business. The Englishman,
not being acquainted with my native tongue, does not
understand our methods of doing business ; hence corres-
pondence with my own country, having no time to do it
myself, is of no good to me. Further, as my religion
necessitates my countrymen preparing my food for me,
and other domestic matters of detail, my not being able
to obtain the necessary domestic work here hampers me
considerably. For some time past I have been a great
sufferer through the above drawbacks, and have been
urged by my many friends to make this appeal through
your valuable columns.
Just what the “appeal” is remains an unresolved
mystery owing to the writer’s vagueness of diction.
But seemingly Wassiamull’s idea is that because
he has a curious religion and is imperfectly
acquainted with English, it is up to Australian
newspaper editors to boost him and his business
alone free of charge. It indicates considerable
insight into local conditions on Wassiamull’s part.
If the Australian proprietor of an Australian con-
THAT H.M.S.
" HYSTERIA” FUND.
The children attending the
N.S.W. State schools are to
be asked to hand their
pennies over to the Dread-
nought Fund.
TEACHER: “ Now , Tommy ,
Gladys lias given her
penny for a big ship to
blow up our enemies.
What will you do? ”
TOMMY: “ Til buy some
icecrec m to pizen 'em!”
cern made a like appeal, he would assuredly be
turned down with violence. It is long odds that
this alien, merely because he is an alien engaged
selling foreign-made goods, will get all the help
he is looking for. No nigger need look in vain for
help against the white trash when a true-blue
Cobdenite is around,
* • * * +
“D.” : S. M. Herald published this
somewhat involved advt. (12/5/’O9)
GENTLEMAN, distressfully circumstanced, after
considerable sketching in Author particular, be
it precisely comprehended, entering upon real work,
intended extend into volumes of extensiveness, aware
of difficulty in progress of Anonymous, desiring cor-
respondence with particularly refined Lady, philan-
thropic-ally disposed, possessing income moderate or
otherwise! thoroughly convincing, preliminary to
nuptial, that Anonymous, surpassing in Author par-
ticular, those of the present period. Anonymous,
Post Office, Alexandria.
One lays oneself open to no injurious accusation
of employing “subtle crafts” in diagnosing that
the fashioner of the above is a Babu. His hide
betrays him. He demands a wife a financial
stand-by and a literary expert in one ; and the sole
allurement he has to offer the lady is the fact that
he is “distressfully circumstanced.” A mere
Caucasian would be satisfied with the cash and let
the rest go.
N.S.W.’s Wade Ministry has struck un-
expected trouble at Wrightville (N.S. W.), which
is a hamlet near Cobar. Wrightville has a full-
blown municipal council, a mayor and a council
clerk, and the whole municipal income isn’t much
over £5OO per annum. Some time back Wade’s
Ministry ordered Wrightville to do something
drastic with its nocturnal vehicle arrangements.
Wrightville pointed out that Cobar had obeyed a
similar order and was now in the throes of a
typhoid outbreak, therefore it was plain that
cleaning up was a useless luxury. The Government
was firm. The municipality was obstinate. Ihe
Government was firmer. Finally Wrightville got
a mandamus or a habeas corpus or something,
whereupon the whole of the ratepayers, their
wives, children, and hired vassals signed a petition
praying that the Governor should be pleased not
to insist on interfering with the vehicle men-
tioned. The Governor, with the advice of the
Executive Council, still insisted on interfering.
So the Lord Mayor and the aldermen have re-
signed, and all the population has agreed not to
be nominated. At this juncture the Council
Clerk was informed that, as he didn’t have a certi-
ficate as’a council clerk, he was illegally on the pre-
mises. He hurriedly shut up shop, and the
Wrightville Municipal Council has vanished. It
seems that either Wrightville must bead minis-
tered by State officials for a while, or else Wade
must go up and drive the garbage cart himself.
Members of the Anglican Provincial Synod
are crying out for a revised prayer book, and it is
instanced as a rank absurdity that in a full service
the prayer for the King is given four times.
“That,” said Archdeacon Tucker, “is quite un-
necessary.” And no doubt it is nowadays.
There was a time when Edward seemed to
need praying for four times, but he now agrees
with Solomon to the extent that much of it is
vanity and vexation of spirit. Once in the
moderately long ago, Sydney E. News hired
what it called “The Daughter of a Duke” to
write society notes from London, and she told a
fearsome tale or lie to the effect that the lady who
was Ed.’s favorite or houri or odalisque of the
moment, could always be recognised in the gilded
halls of London by the golden key which she wore.
The key was presumably a sign that she had the
run of the royal side door at all hours of the day
and night.
A SECRET IN SOCIETY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has for some time been a well-kept secret in London
society circles that King Eduard’s health has not been as
good as his personal friends would wish. — Melbourne Aon.
Quick !—Quick !
His Majesty is sick !
Hurry with the camomile and fetch a heated brick.
He has got another spasm.
’Tisn’t often that he has ’em.
When he does he’s touchy, and inclined to raise Old Nick.
But, care ! O, care !
Should a duke or baron dare
Tell the news below his station he’ll be bowstringed then
and there.
Hist!—Hist!
The King has got a twist !
There’s a swelling of his fingers that have recently been
kissed
By some loyal princely nigger,
And they’re getting big and bigger,
And we fear some black infection has attacked the royal
fist.
But see, O see,
That ’tis whispered secretly ;
Or they’ll lynch the Lord Physician for allowing it to be.
Hush ! Hush !
Don’t stand around and crush !
The royal countenance is overspread with quite a flush.
He is feeling rather worried,
And his pulse is rather hurried,
But we have to save the nation from a universal blush.
Then mind, O mind !
Shut the door and draw the blind.
Let no lord or earl divulge it to the lesser human kind.
Ssh ! Ssh !
It is the royal wish
That the populace must never know the King has eaten
fish ;
Eaten largely of tinned salmon,
With results (but we must gammon)—
With results that make him sorry that he didn’t pass the
dish.
And O ! ’Tis O !
If the populace should know,
There would be an inundation when the tears began to
flow.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
SHORT-WEIGHT SAINTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The business man wants short sermons and short
prayers, and to get back to his business,” says a Holy
Howler at mid-day service for business men in Melbourne.
The business man, like others, feels
' His spiritual needs,
So for a moment down he kneels,
And breathlessly he pleads
For longer life and better health
To hustle in the fight for-wealth.
They go in haste to eat their cribs
Where Methodists expound,
To hit the Devil in the ribs
And out him in a round,
And then, hot foot, hie back to town
To damp the cheap tobacco down.
Long sermons cannot be endured
By active business men ;
Their souls’ salvation is assured
In thirty seconds, then
They’re off the wild cat mine to float,
Or sell the shoddy overcoat.
Ten-sentence sermons, two-line hymns,
And prayers in half a trice,
That’s how the business person trims
His sails for Paradise.
Impelled by competition’s rod,
He gives short weight when serving God !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
" NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Repreaonted fl r thur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold Gold Estates,
BODANGORA,
N.S.W.
ESir,r^
Machinery Merchants, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;..
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Maoriland’s surpluses are largely bogus, or
rather they are wholly bogus, for they are made up by
not charging to ordinary revenue an enormous inass of
repairs, odd jobs and unproductive works which no
honest Government could charge to anything except
ordinary revenue. By omitting to charge revenue with,
say, £1,000,000 of ordinary expenditure, it is often found
possible’ to show a paper surplus of £592,374, or some-
thing like that. Then £500,000 of this is proudly put into
the Public Works Fund, and by adding to it £500,000 of
borrowed money it becomes possible to pay for the
£1,000,000 worth of repairs, old jobs and unproductive
works which should be charged to revenue. It is a
beautiful device whereby a deficit of £407,626 is turned
into a proud and pompous surplus of £592,374. As re-
gards reproductive or partially reproductive or moder-
ately reproductive works, they are, of course, all charged
to loans. It is Maoriland’s way in these recent years.
Maoriland has a Democratic policy which is
calculated to create steady and solid prosperity. But on
top of that it has a boom such as no country can stand.
Through incredible borrowing there has arisen a con-
dition of diseased activity which rushed up the price of
town land till few could afford to buy it, and made city
house property so costly that it was a luxury to live in a
house. A wooden shanty in Wellington (M.L. cities are very
largely wooden) became worth an amount that would
make a Melbournite faint and a Sydneyite flee to drink.
Capital—the kind of capital that is available for loans on
mortgage—began to go into other lt couldn’t
find profitable employment. When the borrower wanted
£3OO on a town allotment nominally worth £5OO, and the
lender offered £lOO because he knew that, when the boom
burst he would be lucky if the property realised
more than £l5O, it was naturally difficult to do business.
Therefore the man with money to lend on free-
hold property stepped out affably on silent feet.
His stepping out made money scarce, and interest
consequently went up. It went up so high that
people scoffed at the idea of investing in their own
Government securities at 4 per cent!, and Maoriland had
to do almost all its borrowing abroad. The result was
that, instead of its loans being merely a transfer of money
within the country, they represented an importation of
money ; and the importation fed the boom still further.
Also this process meant that the interest on the public
debt, instead of being paid to people in the country and
spent in the country, had to be sent away, which will
make the slump far worse than it need otherwise
be. Meanwhile, through the continued influx of
money, rents and property values kept going
up. As a consequence, wages had to be rushed up,
for it required very high wages to enable a man to
struggle with (1) the problem of rent, and (2) the problem
of the taxation which the huge burden of unproductive
debt, rendered necessary. About this stage of the pro-
ceedings some of the manufacturing industries began to
totter. Maoriland has a tariff which is equal to any ordi-
nary emergency ; but the very high wages which w.ere
rendered necessary by the very high rents and the very
high taxation (caused" by the very large unproductive
debt), and also the very high rents and taxes which the
manufacturer has to pay by reason of booming and borrow-
ing, made production so costly that foreign goods were
able to climb in great quantities over the tariff wall. And
people who were in a state of wild, temporary, bogus boom
affluence because there was so much borrowed money
flying about rather liked the sham luxury of buying these
imported goods. This fact, also, didn’t help local in-
dustry much.
Everything in Maoriland became like the fine,
gaudy, picturesque avalanche which hangs on the side of
the mountain by a hair, and only wants to be breathed
upon to set the whole show sliding to perdition. And
apparently somebody has breathed upon it, though the
extent of the slide isn’t known yet. For the financial
year which ended March 31, 1909 (Maoriland ends its
financial year in March, so as to be like England), the
revenue showed a decline for the . first time in many
years ; the expenditure showed a large increase (it was
bound to do that owing to the growth of unproductive
debt) ; and the beautiful paper surplus fell away lament-
ably. Here are some figures:—
Maoriland Finances.
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
1898 .. £5,079,230 £4,602,372 £476,858
1899 .. 5,258,228 4,858,511 399,717
1900 .. 5,699,018 5,140,127 559,491
1901 .. 5,906,916 5,479,704 427,212
1902 .. 6,152,839 5,895,915 256,924
1903 .. 6,447,435 6,214,019 233,416
1904 .. 7,130,117 6,434,281 695,836
1905 .. 7,347,197 6,635,902 711,295
1906 .. 7,650,098 7,122,340 527,758
1907 .. 8,478,956 7,774,926 704,030
1908 .. 9,063,989 8,213,965 850,024
1909 .. ' 9,001,185 8,755,513 ' 215,672
It is alleged with bitterness that the bottom has
to a considerable extent fallen out of Maoriland’s pros-
perity, that lack of employment is rampant, and that
Maorilanders are pouring over to Sydney and Melbourne
in quest of jobs. And in England unkind things begin to
be said about Maoriland’s efforts to surreptitiously raise
the wind, as if it had reached a point at which it could
not raise the wind in the light of day. On this subject
the Investors’ Review lately remarked
“There has been too much bombast—more than usual,
although Maoriland is always given to make overmuch of
itself—and there is too much borrowing. Moreover, the
borrowing, so far as the Government is concerned, has
become secretive. Three weeks ago we mentioned that
£1,500,000 of three-year Maoriland Treasury notes had
been quietly sold in the London market at a price
described as satisfactory, but which was hidden. That,
however, does not appear to have been all the money
raised this year in London to feed the ‘ universal pro-
vider’ and land-values-inflation industry of the Govern-
ment, for we see that in the colony itself it was announced
at the beginning of February last that £600,000 seven-
year 4 per cent, notes had just been disposed of here on
behalf of the advances to settlers department; and as the
Government is shovelling out money to these settlers at
the rate of £lOO,OOO a month, this borrow would only pro-
vide enough credit for six months’ business
Besides the State debts, moreover, various muni-
cipalities have been busy raising money. Auckland
has got £90,000 ; Dunedin, £200,000 ; Wanganui Harbor,
£lOO,OOO ; and Westport, £200,000, all since the beginning
of this year.”
Premier Joseph Ward has been roused to speak
severely about this state of things, and to say that the
trouble arises through the banks not lending enough
money or not having - enough money to lend ; and he
reckons they must find and lend more money, or else
other banks must be encouraged to come in and compete
with them. But the world is already stiff with banks
that would gladly rush in and lend up to 50 or 60 per
cent, of what they regarded as the permanent value of
the property, though banks which will leap into the
breach and lend up to 60 per cent, of the nominal value
of a wooden villa in Wellington, which villa is alleged to
be worth almost as much as a solid stone mansion in the
suburbs of Sydney or Melbourne, are very rare. In fact,
it is difficult to imagine where Ward will find them. And,
meanwhile, the frantic Premier of Maoriland has cabled
to England, without the authority of either Parliament
or people, offering £2,000,000 for a Dreadnought or
£4,000,000 for two Dreadnoughts. Something may hap-
pen, both to Ward and to those Dreadnoughts, when
Parliament gets a chance to make a few remarks.
The Western Australian Bank (Perth,
W.A.)
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Sept., 1902.. 15,489 17£ p.c. = 8,750 6,739 248,536
Mar., 1903.. 18,780 17£ „ „ 8,750 10,030 258,566
Sept., 1903.. 20,974 17£ „ „ 8,750 12,224 270,790
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 31,250 302,040
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 17£ p.c. =10,938 11,340 313,380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 17£ ~,,10,938 13,908 327,288
Mar., 1905.. 21,233 17* „ ~10,938 10,295 337,583
Sept., 1905.. 21,369 20" ~,,12,500 8,869 346,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 25,000 371,452
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 p.c. =12,500 8,056 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 ~.,,15,000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907.. 24,758 20 „ ~15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 ~,,15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums paid on 2500 new shares 31,560 442,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,568 20 p.c. = 17,006 6,562 449,440
Premiums on new shares .. .. 11,372 460,812
Sept., 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c. =17,500' 3,957 464,769
Mar., 1909.. 25.23 S 20 „ ~17,500 7,738 472,507
The profit would have been £4OOO more only that the
Board opened its heart and allotted £4OOO as a bonus to
the staff. About every two years this bank increases its
capital. Three half-yearly balances have now gone by
since the last issue of new shares ; consequently, the
remarks made by the deputy-chairman at the last half-
yearly meeting do not come as much of a surprise : “ He
might say that, although they had been passing through
somewhat dull times, the applications for advances and
temporary accommodation were practically always in
excess of the facilities they were able to grant, and this
brought them to the position of considering whether it
would not be desirable in the not very distant future
to further increase the capital of the bank.” When the
gold boom rushed Westralia like a tidal wave, and
swept it to the forefront of things, the W.A. Bank
had only £BO,OOO of capital. In order to cope with
things, it proceeded to expand and to strengthen
the reserves at the same time by means of premiums on
the new share issues. (For the last issue of 2500 Shares
of £lO each the average tender was £27 2s. 3d. On
account of a large proportion of the shares having been
issued at tall premiums, the 20 per cent, dividend is
rather misleading.) So the paid capital has climbed
rapidly up from £BO,OOO to £175,000, and, in addition, a
substantial reserve has been built up. The bank’s past
experiences with regard to new capital have been so satis-
factory that another issue of shares will probably happen
along at the expiration of the usual two-year period. On
the basis of capital and reserves, the profits for the past
term show a decided advance over those for September,
1908: —
Net Profits in Proportion to Shareholders’ Funds
(Capital and Reserves).
5ept.,1905 ..£9 4 9 p.c. I Sept., 1907 ..£lO 4 2 p.c.
Mar., 1906 .. 8 14 5 ~ | Mar., 1908 .. 8 7 11 „
5ept.,1906 .. 9 1 9,, I Sept.,l9oB .. 6 17 5 „
Mar., 1907 .. 9 3 10 ~ | Mar., 1909 .. 7 17 8 „
That shows a very fair return indeed—distinctly better
than that of the previous half-year, thoug-h not up to the
level of the time when the capital was smaller, and the
boom bigger, and the interest rate higher. But if the
Board hadn’t (most commendably) opened its heart and
paid that £4OOO bonus to the staff, the profits would have
represented £9 2s. 9d. per cent, on capital and reserves,
which would have been an exceedingly good figure indeed.
The following comparison shovfs how various
balance-sheet items have moved in the six months -
Mar., 1908. Mar., 1909.
Notes in circulation.. £107,520 £L21,157 Inc. £13,667
Bills, etc 143,899 172,175 Inc. 28,276
Deposits at interest.. 780,060 919,167 Inc. 139,107
Deposits, free.. .. 1,143,355 994,566 Deo. 148,749
Liquidassets .. .. 964,004 968,590 Inc. 4,586
Advances .. .. 1,787,277 1,842,512 Inc. 55,235
Premises .. .. 65,000 65,000 —,
In connection with the decrease of £148,749 in free de-
posits, and the £55,235 increase in advances, it is worth
noting how the gap between these two has been
steadily widening for some time past. At March,
1907, advances amounted to £l,7o3,B2oMarch, 1909,
sees them at £1,842,512—an increase of £138,692.
On the other hand, free deposits have shrunk
from £1,225,882 in March, 1907, to £994,566 in March,
1909 —a decrease of £231,316. It is rather like two ex-
presses going in different directions, and the united speed
is £370,008 per two years. The bank holds a shade under
44 per cent, of its debts to the public in liquid assets ;
which is a large proportion,, but the big parcel of free
deposits require it. A gratifying point this half is the
large increase in fixed deposits (£139,107). For the pre-
vious two terms this item had been retiring into its shell
like a modest snail or bashful periwinkle. The W.A.
Bank has no branches outside its own State to draw, on ;
so the fixed depositor should be accorded the glad hand
and the easiest chair when he drops in to 'leave his
savings.
» * * *
Broken Hill Junction North Silver Mining
do.
Written
Loss. Dividend. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1905 .. £523 Nil £20,290
(£50,000 new capital issued : deficit written of.)
Profit.
Mar., 1906 .. 2,939 Nil £5OOO 2,061
Loss.
Sept., 1906 .. 3,065 Nil 5,126
Mar., 1907 .. 3,039 Nil 7208 15,378
Profit.
Sept., 1907 .. 17,726 . Nil 7891 5,538
Mar., 1908 .. 7,376 Nil 7629 5,791
Sept., 1908 ..12,418 Nil 7263 636
Mar., 1909 '.. 9,752 Nil 3618 6,770
At September 30,1908, a reserve of £lOOO was created to
provide against probable refunds on account of concen-
trates sold but not finally settled for. In the accounts
recently issued this £lOOO is written back to .profit and
loss, the effect being to improve the look of these last
accounts. In the foregoing the true position is shown,
so far as it can be ascertained. But mining Co’s. accounts
can always be given a much rosier look than they deserve.
In. this case, for instance, no less than £6986 was spent on
the mine and mill plant; but only £3618 of this expendi-
ture was written off. Six months ago the co’s. position
was as position :
Liquid assets.—Concentrates .. .. £2,208
Sundry debtors .. .. 4,698
Cash balances ~ 10,864
Total £17,770
Liabilities.-—Sundry creditors .. .. 7,886
Surplus liquid assets.. £9,884
The position on March 31, 1909, was :
Liquid assets. —Concentrates .. .. £7,604
Sundry debtors .. .. 5,113
Cash balances .. .. 2,763
Total £10,480
Liabilities.—Sundry creditors .. .. 8,247
Surplus liquid assets £7,233
So the surplus of liquid assets has been reduced by £2651
in the six months, in spite of the alleged profit. The ex-
planation is that the whole of the profit and a good deal
more has gone into plant, stocks of timber, etc. The
cash balances, it will be noted, have shrunk from £10,864
to £2763.
Of course, there are excuses and explanations.
There always have been for the past 20 years. The co,,
or rather the succession of cos,, has always been just
going to do something quite surprising, and when it
hasn’t done it it has always explained that it would have
done it all right, only the ore got hard, or some new
machinery was wanted, ora mine next door got on fire, or
something. This time the chairman explains that the
shareholders might have had two dividends if the costs
hadn’t gone up and recoveries come down. Buzzing in
part of the public’s mind has been the idea that the dis-
turbed state of affairs at Broken Hill has prejudiced the co.
It has and it hasn’t. Possibly had the B.H. Prop, kept its
furnaces going- the eo. might have got a better price for
its concentrates; but even that is very doubtful. The
chances, in fact, are that the stoppage of two such big
producers as the B. H. Prop, and Block 10 for so many
months has strengthened the lead market, and thus put a
few thousands of pounds into the pockets of those cos.
that have kept at work. Further, as the experience of
the South and t'he Sulphide Corporation shows, the
closing down of the big mines let loose an army of good
workmen, from whom the other cos. had their pick, to
the great advantage of working costs. So, after all,
though the Junction North is as full of excuses as ever,
most of them are wretchedly poor ones.
* * # *'
The Mount Lykll Mining and Railway Co. :
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. Deficit
Sept., 1903.. £2,048
Reserves
Mar., 1904.. £115,172 Nil 113,124
5ept.,1904.. 129,502- 12£p.c.= £78,780 163,540
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12 ~ ~ 78,750 £8,764 238,087
Sept., 1905.. 201,985 12J- ~ ~ 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20-,, ~126,000 8,713 455.383
Sept., 1906.. 251,095 25 ~ ~ 157,500 10,071 568,907
Mar., 1907.. 282,938 32k ~ „ 205,074 11,515 035,256
5ept.,1907.. 150,625 35 „ ~220,551 11,740 553,590
Mar., 1905.. 141,730 20 ~ „ 126,16 S 9,723 559,429
Sept., 1908.. 168,130 17£ „ ~110,364 12,006 605,189
Mar., 1909.. 141,683 1.7 J „ „ 110,372 10,153 626,347
The reserves are made up as follows: Formal re-
serve fund, £125,000 ; insurance fund, £28,100 ; profit
and loss balance £473,247. But these reserves are
nominal oidy. As with most mining cos., notwith-
standing that the mine is a wasting asset, “pro-
perties, leases, and other rights” are kept in the balance
sheet at cost (£848,188). Depreciation of plant is, how-
ever, provided for. The present co. is an amalgamation
of Mount Lyell and North Lyell, and the foregoing
table covers their joint history. When the union was
effected the new co. took over the North Lyell’s deben-
tures (£140,000). These have gradually been bought up,
and only £157 is now* owing on this account; and that
amount is represented by a suspense item on the assets
side. What may be called the cash position of the co. has
changed like this in the past three years :
Position as at March, 1906.
Liquid assets.—Sundry debtors .. £55,496
Products on hand .. 393,736
Reserve investments .. 56,700
Cash balances .. .. 144,891
Total assets .. .. .'. .. .. ..£650,823
Liabilities. —Debentures .. .. .. £76,720
Sundry creditors .. .. 21,528
Drafts, etc. .. .. .. 150,495
Total liabilities .. .. .. .. .. ..£248,743
Surplus of liquid assets .. .. .. ..£402,080
Position as at March, 1909.
Liquid assets.—Sundry debtors .. £141,596
Products on hand .. 330,091
Reserve investments .. 75.636
Cash balances .. .. 538
To,tal liquid assets ..£550,861
Liabilities. —Sundry creditors .. .. £46,079
Drafts, etc. .. .. .. 132,188
Overdrafts ... .. .. 9,097
Total liabilities .. .. .. .. -. ..£187,364
Surplus of liquid assets £363,497
On this showing, the surplus of liquid assets has shrunk
£38,553 in the three years, after. payment.of £930,029 in
dividends and taxes. (The dividend tax is not separated
from the income tax ; hence the slight variation shown
in the table above when the same div. is paid.) But these
two items have to be taken into account
March, March,
1906. 1909.
Chemical works .. .. .. £46,164 £118,022
Stock (including superphosphates) 45,324 96,853
Total .. £91,48S £214,875
This shows an increase of £123,387 in these two items;
and no doubt most of it is represented by the new fer-
! biliser works at Port Adelaide, the additions to similar
works near Melbourne, and the larger stocks of fertiliser
now held. The management is careful never to show by
figures how the superphosphate business is panning out.
lii the Working Account “ blister copper and superphos-
phates’’are lumped together. Apparently, however,
only the net revenue; from the superphosphates is included,
while the gross revenue from copper sales is thrown into
the lump. General-Manager Sticlit makes this reference
to this new and now very important industry : “Both
the Yarraville and Port Adelaide acid and fertiliser works
have been in full swing during the half-year, using pyrites
from the Mount Lyell mine. As the use of superphos-
phate and other artificial manures is yearly increasing,
this departure is more than justifying itself.”
Mount Lyell’s output has moved as follows
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Sept., 1905 .. 4235 tons 365,440 oz. 12,425 oz.
Mar., 1906 .. 4565 ~ 375,762 ~ 12,342 ~
Sept., 1906 .. 4444 ~ 329,153 ~ 10,746,,
Mar., 1907 .. 3796 ~ 355,372 ~ 10,115 „
Sept., 1907 .. 4090 ~ 344,715 ~ 9,334 ~
Mar., 1908 .. 4247 ~ 344,60 S ~ 10,489 „
Sept., 1908 .. 4394 ~ 366,654 ~ 9,043 ~
Mar., 1909 .. 4331 ~ 366,706 ~ 6,855 ~
The half-year’s gross profit Was £141,683. Therefore,
regarding copper as the staple product, and setting the
entire value of the other' products against costs, the co.
made a profit of £32 14s. 3d. per ton of the red metal.
The co. averaged £6l 17s. Sd. per ton for the 3243 tons of
the half-year’s output which had been sold when the
accounts were made up. Therefore, the cost of production
was the difference between those two figures, or £29 3s. sd.
per ton. These figures, of course, are only approximate,
because accounts of this sort are to some extent merely a
matter of estimate. Even the declared profit is only an
estimate. Thus six months ago the 852 tons of copper
then on hand was only valued at £5O per ton, whereas it
afterwards actually realised £6l 6s. Similarly, the stock
of 10S8 tons unsold at March 31 was only valued at £5O,
whereas the present price is about £6O. Seeing that a
greater quantity is’ on hand now' than was on hand six
months ago, it is clear that the actual profit for the past
half-year was rather greater than the published figures
show. In other words, while about £9500 was derived
from surpluses during the past half-year, the past half-
year’s output may reasonably be expected to bring at
least £ll,OOO more than the half-year’s accounts show.
This £ll,OOO will go into the next half-year’s totals. In
don;paring the profits for the various terms, it has also to
be noted that this is the first March balance at which
profits from the superphosphate department have been
taken into account. Hitherto the profits from that
mysteriously-worked department have always, it- seems,
been dropped into the accouuts made up at the end of
September.
Mount Lyell costs liavij moved this way
March, March, March, March,
1905. 1907. " 1908. 1909.
Mining, etc. .. ■ 4/11*91 5/10-12, 6/4"35 6/6*53
Smelting .. 0/5 *l3 7/5*32. 7/9*60 7/7*28
Converting ~ 1/7'35 1/1 "53 l/2'44 1/1-/9
Total .. 13/0:39 14/4*97 15/4*39 15/3 60
The smelting costs are remarkably low. In 1897 they
were 18s. 2d. per ton. Since then they have been gradu-
ally reduced, until now, through the blending of the Lyell
and North Lyell ores, the furnace- charge is almost seif-
smelting*. And the reduction of costs would appeal all
the more striking if it, were possible t.o give the oid costs
of the North Lyell. Unfortunately, it isn’t. Even the total
quantity of metal won by the oid North Lyell 00. is
nowadays unknown. This month or next, by the way,
the present co., which cook: over the concern on Aug. 11,
1903, will pass the old Mount Lyell’s copper output of
48,577 tons. Dividends paid by the present co. total
£1,230,000. Thus the shareholders have got back their
capital (£1,200,000), and in addition they have more ore
now devt loped than General Manager Sticht found avail-
able when the eo. started. Here are his two estimates :
Orb Reserves, 1903.
Ore, Copper Silver Gold
Tons. Value. Value. Value.
Mount Lyell -.4,495,310 059 p.c. 1'990z. o'o4ooz.
\ 170,494 6-25 p.c. 2'250z. o'oosoz.
Ore Reserves, 1909.
Mount Lyell .. 3,234,111 0'53 p.c. 1'960z. o'o2Soz.
North Lyell .. 713,936 6'oo p.c. 1'330z. o'oosoz.
But the costs will quite likely go up. Lyell low-grade
fluxing ore has been got out so cheaply because it has
been quarried. On account, however, of the good de-
velopments at Ssoft. and 1000 ft. in the North Lyell, more
fluxing ore will be needed than is available by quarrying.
That is to say, owing to the tremendous amount of over-
burden that would have to be removed to get a safe
batter, it will presently be cheaper to mine than to
quarry or open-cut. Last half-year’s output of ore was
134,837 tons from Lyell and 66,943 tons from the North.
There is thus exposed 5J years’ work in the North and 12
years’ work in the Lyell ; but the bulk of the Lyell ore
cannot be profitably treated by itself.
■a-***
Burns, Philp and Co., Limited, shipowners,
South Sea Island traders, merchants, etc. (paid-up
papital, £300,000) :
Added ,
Written to Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1900.. £191,346
1901.. £49,690 8 p.c. =£22,000 £27,690 219,036
1902.. 58,076 8 „ „ 22,000 36,076 255,112
1903.. 60,775 8 ~ ~ 22,000 38,775 293,887
1904.. 41,900 8 ~ „ 24,000 £12,372 5,528 299,415
1905.. 44,586 8 ~ ~ 24,000 20,586 320,001
1906.. 43,276 8 ~ ~ 24,000 19,276 339,277
1907.. 55,637 10 „ „ 30,000 20,000 5,.637 344,914
1908.. 69,787 10 ~ ~ 30,000 10,000 29,787 374,701
1909.. 54,915 10 „ „ 30,000 24,915 399,616
In the above table the profits, the sums carried to re-
serves, and the reserves themselves agree .in no single
instance with previous tables published in this paper,
though the discrepancies are not large. The figures ha\e,
therefore, all the charm of novelty. Until the year 1907
Burns, Philp and Co. showed the usual reserve fund and
undivided profit balance, and this paper regarded these
two as making up the reserves. A fluctuating item that
wandered up and down, varying from £14,676 to £32,849,
was described in the balance-sheet as “Sundry branch
and other reserves,” and on the theory that it was merely,
as reserve for depreciation which might have already
taken place, this was disregarded by The Bulletin. But
in 1908 the firm added an insurance fund of £6OOO to the
complications, and by March, 1909, this fund had unac-
countably grown to £16,739, apparently owing in part to
the transfer of money from the “ sundry reserves,” which
apparently had been, in part, insurance reserves all along.
The difficulty of sorting out one from the other became
too great, so now reserve, “sundry branch and other
reserves,” insurance reserve and undivided profit are
lumped together. Consequently this year’s figures, are
arrived at thus :
Visible profit .. .. .. .. •• £53,021
Unexplained addition to insurance reserve .. 10,739
£63,760
Less —
Bonus to staff .. .. .. £6OOO
Unexplained diminution of “ sundry
branch and other reserves ” .. 2845 8,845
Net profit .. .. .. •• £54,915
Burns, Philp and Co. write off every year a
large sum to cover depreciation, bad debts and “sundry
losses”—the amount this year was £49,566.. This is
charged direct to profit and loss ; the sums which appear
in the above table are extra writings down which are not
called depreciation. Details for the last six years are as
follows :
To Provide Special
Depre- To Provide for Appre-
ciation. for Losses. Bad Debts, priations.
1904 .. £14,634 £16,241 £11,954 £12,372
1905 .. 12,298 29,484 11,824
1906 .. 15,596 22,722 14,758
1907 .. 19,357 16,250 15,917 20,000
1903 .. 20,761 14,700 13,953 10,000
1909 .. 17,258 23,212 9,096
Ordinary trade debts amount to £123,260 ; the other side
of the financial shield shows book debts amounting to
£225,909. Merchandise stock represents £162,625; and
shares in shipping and other co.’s £77,923; while sundry
advances and island produce on hand and in transit
totals £102,154. The co. admits frankly that it is feel-
ing good, and owns up to the fact that it is going to
greatly improve its Java-Singapore service by putting on
larger steamers.
* * * *
Queensland Meat Export and Agency Co.:—
Added Nomi-
Dividends and to Re- rial Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
1898 .. £ll,Oll Nil £ll,Oll £52,860
1899 .. 47,340 10 p.c. = £11,474 35,866 88,726
1900 .. 75,050 10 ~ „ 11,474 63,576 152,302
1901 .. 39,480 10 ~ ~ 11,474 28,006 180,308
1902 .. 72,308 20 ~ ~ 22,949 49,359 229,667
Forfeited capital .. .. .. 240 229,907
1903 .. 52,793 10 ~ ~ 11,474' 41,319 271,226
Loss.
1904 .. 9,472 Nil 261,754
Profits.
1905 .. 20,330 Nil 20,330 282,084
1906 .. 22,206 Nil 22,206 304,2!i0
Depreciation written off .. £102,056 202,234
Loss.
IQ „ 7 / 1,647 Nil 200,587
IJO7 written off .. £19,799 180,788
Profits.
j 7,913 3Jp.c.= 6,885 • 1,028 181,816
1908 -j Depreciation written off .. £79,893 101,923
Chairman Robert Philp and the other directors of this
co. have got into the habit of telling far less than shari-
holders are entitled to know ; at any rate, they tell fur
less in the published accounts and report. This year
they tell even less than usual. From the Reserve Fund,
for instance, £4105 has disappeared without a word of
explanation ; and £75,788 has been transferred from profit
and loss, and has then also dropped out of notice. This
makes a total of £79,893, which is shown above as written
off to cover depreciation—presumably that is what has
been done with it. Twelve months ago attention was drawn
to the fact that the Singapore Cold Storage Go. shares
were evidently still in the balance-sheet at’ par, although
they were then, and had been for some time, quoted at a
heavy discount. These shares have now been lumped with
other assets into an item of £279,248, so that it is no
longer possible to trace this line, which previously told a
tale of the co.’s methods. Twelve months ago the three
items—factories, pastoral properties, and shares, totalled
£309,007. The lumped item now stands at £29,760. 1e55.
This does not therefore tell vyhat assets have been written
down to make the total of £79,893. The biggest drop in
the assets is in “ unsold, products.” They represented
£147,709 in 1907 and only £38,218 in 1908. Possibly
it was found necessary to write down this item
also. Anvwav, there is a tremendous amount of
uncertainty about the whole business; and if the
object of the published accounts is to give the
least possible information concerning the 12 months
history of the co. they succeed very well. As at Nov. 30,
1907,-the capital of the co. was shown as £109,279 ; but
there was also £79,789 of capital represented by “ special
shares,” apparently issued as collateral security for some
of the co.’s debts. ' The capital is now shown as£lB9,L3l;
but the debts have been reduced from £212,500 to £92,39-.
This is partly due to the reduction of stocks on band,
consignments, etc. ; but, apparently also a rearrange-
ment has been made with regard to the heavy bank over-
draft, which was obtained in order to purchase Caipen-
taria Downs and other northern cattle properties three
years or so ago. There can’t be much, if any, profit in
the meat-paqking business at present; but there ought
to have been good profit in the cattle-raising business,


MaKe
■
So thaiit
wtn be
Carried
out
w
o lf
aft*
m
%!f
m
Conveying Apparatus
for handling
COAL, ORE, WHEAT,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Robins Conveying Beit Co.
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALQOORLIE.
[5
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, ever}' small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in H.vatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. VVm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavv grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work ,in hand. These
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4ift. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.*
* * * *
James Hardie and Co. carry large and useful
stocks of Dick’s well-known belting; “ Fibio-Cement ”
Asbestos slates, sheets and silos ; “ Weston ” centrifugals ;
Fullis’ laundry machinery, gas engines, shafting, pulleys,
caustic soda,' soda ash, sodium—lowest prices, West
Circular Quay, Sydney.* I 4
« * * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, in its
October, ’OB, number, comments upon the last report of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited as
follows: —“To have completed £1,278,034 of new business
is a really splendid achievement for any office, but for
a comparatively young one (having been established in
1873) the figures are of intense interest, and indicate the
force of the power which the Colonial Mutual has attained
in the insurance world.”*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* m * *
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
save's 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal ;bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent- Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depdt for Best Yorkshire
“ Farnley ” Iron.*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Win. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* ★ ■* *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney,*
-*■■*■■**■
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn ttie many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria,*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.* * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
Sawmillers, joiners and others interested in the
wood-working industry who contemplate the increase or
renewal of their plant should apply to Gibson, Battle &
Co. Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street,
Melbourne, for catalogues of machinery by W. B. Haigti
& 00. They carry stocks of their Planing and Moulding
Machines, Hand Planing and Jointing Machines, Chain
Mortising Machines, etc. These last are excellently
planned on very simple lines. The chain sprocket is
driven by an Epic.vclie train of wheels which considerably
reduces the working parts and cuts perfectly true mor-
tises in soft, hard or knotty timber. The machine has a
very large output, producing a perfect quality of work,
and should form a part of the equipment in every up-to-
date workshop.*
LOHMANN <& COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS for gfRfIURS LOCOMOTIVES,
as purchased by the Govts, of N.0.W., Victoria
and Tasmania, and ail principal mining: com'
panics, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyeil M. &R. Cto
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [?
though it has always been understood that the 00. paid a
big price for its properties.
Permewan, Wright and 00., Ltd., carriers,
etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere :
Written To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. off. serves serves.
1898 ..£4514 10 p.c. = £3750 £764 £21,148
1899 .. 3769 10 „ „ 3750 19 21,167
1900 .. 4036 9 „ „ 4062 21,141
1901 .. 4552 8 ~ ~ 4479 £7500 13,714
1902 !. 5150 8,, ~ 5000 7500! . —' 6,364
1903 .. 6630 8 „ „ 5000 L 994
Loss.
1904 594 3 ~ ■„ 1875 9662 4,137
1905 .. 4225 Nil 136 - 8,493
1906 .. 1566 Nil 1022 11,086
Profit. „
1907 .. 5364 Nil 308 5056 6,030
/Plant apparently written ‘ '
I down .. .. .. 6371 12,401
I Reserves.
1908 1 £12,500 capital written off .. .. 99
I Profit.
I 6731 6 p.c. =£3ooo 3731 3,830
190 S ~. 1797 5 ~ ~ 2500 3,127
Apparently, reserves Dave been nibbled at to the extent
of £703 to pay the modest 5 per cent, dividend. The
shuffling of plant is rather confusing-. According to the
report, during the year just ended, two vessels were
bought, and 13 of the co.’s most ancient arks were dis-
posed of “at satisfactory prices.” Also “ the remaining
vessels have been written down in accordance with a care-
ful re-valuation, and appear in the balance-sheet at the
reduced value.” Plant at January, 1908, stood in the
books at £37,297; this time it represents £37,os3—which
is a decrease of £244. The 1908 fleet was made up of ‘2O
steamers and 22 barges ; the less-costly navy of 1909 con-
sists of only 15 steamers and 16 barges. However,
“horses, lorries, harness, etc., freehold land and build-
ings” are mixed up gaily with the Dreadnoughts ; conse-
quently it is difficult to see how much paint has
been rubbed off or on the ships because of the
quantity of winkers, hay, shafts and other sundries
that obstruct the view. In accordance with the usual
custom an amount for repairs has been charged against
revenue; this year.it totals £3446, of which sum the
river plant gets £2708. However, in addition, £1640 has
this term been written off for depreciation, though there
is nothing to show how it has been allotted.' The co.’s
“ outside liabilities” have been reduced by £B26s.since
last year, and anew item has appeared on that side of
the balance-sheet; it reads, “ Reserve—Accumulated
profits used in the business, £2000.” The past term’s
trading has been handicapped by the unsatisfactory state
of the rivers, the short river season, the smallness of the
wool-clip, and the high price of horse nourishment. Yet
the gross earnings were £46,753, as against £45,533 for
1908, and £44,209 for 1907. The smaller profits of this
year are due to the way expenditure has climbed up from
£45,632 in 1908 to £48,583 in 1909. Wages and repairs
are the two items with increased appetites that have
eaten up profits, and the £1640 depreciation item has
helped in the devastation.
The Equitable Permanent Benefit, Building,
Land and Savings Institution (Sydney) :
Written Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1899 .. £7,810 9 per cent. = £6363 £421 £28,339
1900 .. No information supplied 317 26,785
1901 .. 7,556 9 per cent. =£6373 1286 26,682
1902 .. 8,431 9 „ „ 6338 522 28,253
1903 .. 8,466 12 „ „ 8451 210 28,058
1904 .. 8,966 9 „ ~ 6338 1053 29,633
1905 .. 9,086 9 „ ~ 6338 30 32,351
1906 .. 9,545 12 „ „ 8451 677 32,768
1907 .. 9,875 9 „ ~ 633 S 36,305
1908 .. 10,102 9 „ „ 633 S 518 39,551
1909 .. 9,933 12 ~ ~ 8451 455 40,578
The municipal tax on unimproved land values has given
this co. a leg-up during the past term. Consider this
cheerful remark from the thirty-fifth annual report: “ A
very considerable impetus has been given to building
operations, caused, doubtless, by the municipal taxation
on unimproved land values, and as a result a, largely-
increased application for building loans has been experi-
enced. The advances made have totalled £64,000, being
an increase of nearly £13,000 on those of the previous
year.” However, the benefit of the increased business .is
not due to arrive until next year; meanwhile the slight,
frost of the previous term shows itself in a drop of £169
in profits as compared to 1908. This being the year for
the usual triennial bonus of 1 per cent, per annum paid
by this institution, the amount of £2113 has been dis-
tributed amongst shareholders, in addition to the usual 9
percent, dividend absorbing £6338. (The £445 handed to
borrowing shareholders is not included in the above table.)
The following comparison shows how deposits
have moved since 1902 :
1902 .. £94,338 1906 .. £152,350
1903 .. 108,277 1907 .. 153,540
1904 .. 127,476 1908 .. 149,868
1905 .. 138,211 1909 .. 151,853
As will be noticed, the last term shows the small advance
of £1985 over the preceding year. (The 1907-8 increase
was £3672.) Advances have moved up from £224,725 to
£232,259—an increase of £7534 ; and the bank balance has
climbed down from £6402 to £2l49—a descent of £4253.
In connection with the growth of this co., it is interest-
ing to compare the position at March, 1906, and now. In
1906, shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) amounted
to £106,655, while mortgages stood at £227,390 ; this
allowed for a shrinkage of 47 per cent, before the share-
holders’ funds would be extinct and a fond memory.
Since then, the reserves have been strengthened to the
extent of £7BlO, and funds represent £114,064, while
mortgages have risen to £232,259 ; the increase in funds
amounts to £7409 ; mortgages have only swollen £4869.
So the margin now available for a possible slump is some-
thing over 49 per cent.
The Sydney Permanent Freehold, Land and
Building Co.
Profit Loss Total Capital
on on Loss norni-
Busi- Proper- for Total nally
Dec., ness. ties. Year. Deficit. Intact.
1897 .. £lB7 £1,522 £1,335 £17,730 £85,025
Loss.
1898 .. 32 3,383 3,415 21,145 81,610
1899 .. 33 2,328 2,361 23,506 79,249
1900 .. 340 34,372 34,712 58,218 44,537
1901 .. 562 2,723 3,285 61,503 41,252
1902 .. 361 2,006 2,367 63,870 38,885
1903 .. 89 89 63,959 38,796
1904 .. 383 1,725 2,103 66,067 38,688
1905 .. 352 236 588 66,655 36,100
1906 ‘.. 472 120 592 67,247 35,508
1907 ..521 521 67,768 34,987
1908.. 365 11,626 11,991 79,759 22,996
If there were any losses on property sales in 1907, the
balance-sheet didn’t mention them. However, this time,
the accounts contain two gruesome items. They are:
“ Amounts written off* sundry estates, £10,666, ana
“Losses on realisation, £960.” To these two add £365
for the distance by which expenditure has beaten revenue
for the 12 months, and then deduct the total (£11,991)
from the alleged amount of the capital as at the end of
1908. The remaining slice of the cake is thus seen to be
£22 ; 996. At the end of the co.’s year 1897 the properties,
advances, etc., totalled £204,017. The net deficit was
then £17,730. Properties, advances, etc., in this year of
gloom 1908 amount to £54,370, and the total deficit is
£79.759. So, in 11 years, the assets have been
reduced by £149,647, and the deficit has grown £62,029.
Subtract one from the other, and it seems that in 11 years
£149,647 (book value) of assets have paid off £87,618 of
debt; and still there remains £31,714 of deposits to pay
off. The extension of the railway from Belmore to
Bankstown has encouraged the co. to breathe this faint
hope: “. . . .It is the intention of the Board to sub-
divide a block of 90 acres situated close to the Punch-
bowl railway station, Belmore, this year, when it is hoped
depositors will avail themselvek of the opportunity which
will be afforded them of exchanging their deposit receipts
for good building sites adjacent to the railway station.”
Hope is a hardy annual in the Sydney Permanent’s
bosom, for the co. has not yet despaired of securing the
necessary amendment in the Companies Act that would
enable it to reconstruct.
* * * »
Wide Bay Co-operative Dairy Co., Ltd.
Queensland),: —
Dividends Suppliers’ Written Re-
Profit. (6 p.c.). Bonus. Off. serves.
Dec., ’O6 .. £3Ol Nil £3Ol
June,’o7.. 502 £63 £l4B £283 309
Dec., ’07.. 314 65 140 139 279
June, ’OB.. 952 73 454 296 408
Dec., ’OB .. 432 82 291 158 309
This is the pioneer co-operative butter factory of the
Queensland North Coast line, and the foregoing covers
the whole of its working life. The first term shown above
consisted only of four months ; for the term to the end of
December, ’O7, copies of the accounts are not now avail-
able, and some of the figures in that line of the table
are therefore necessarily estimated. An unusually large
profit is shown for the half-year to the end of June : £526
of this was derived from surplus actually received over
the estimated value of the co.’s export butter in London
at the end of the previous half-year. This money might
well have been transferred to a special export reserve,
instead of being treated as ordinary profit. The foreign
butter market is a fidgety animal, and the price when the
fat arrives is liable to be some distance away from where
it was when the goods were sent out from the factory.
Moreover, it is just as liable to be down as it is to be up ;
so when the co. makes a “punch” through an upward
movement, it ought to provide for the inevitable down-
ward movement. Apart from that, which gives the re-
serves a starved appearance, there is nothing to complain
of in the accounts. The amount written off for deprecia-
tion appears to be ample.
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co.,
of Maoriland (Dunedin) ■•
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1902 ..£1370 9 per cent. =£9oo £470 £5,180
1903 .. 1365 10 „ „ 1000 365 5,545
1904 .. 2234 12 „ „ 1200 1034 6,579
1905 .. 4138 'l5 „ „ 1500 2638 9,217
1906 .. 2880 15 ~ „ 1500 1380 10,597
1907 .. 1697 15 „ „ 1500 197 10,794
190 S .. 1880 15 ~ „ 1500 380 11,174
1909 .. 1847 15 „ „ 1500 347 11,521
Maoriland figures, just now, have an especial interest.
Joe Ward’s heated remarks re the unpatriotic caution of
the M.L. banks, and the immense exodus of the M.L.
carpenter and so forth from the Land of Loans in search
of the hard but necessary crust, are two fairly plain
indications that something is about to happen to that
country. The 1.0. U. clouds have been banking up for a
long time past; and, when the storm arrives, the M.L.
institutions must get their share of Cohen’s wintry blast.
So, for the time being, the M.L. mortgage and the M.L.
bit of earth, as well as the co. that handles them, deserve
some extra limelight and a position near the centre of
the stage. The T. E. and A., this term, shows approxi-
mately the same profits as last, and the usual 15 per cent,
dividend has been paid. “ Trust balances in hand ” show
a fairly large reduction ; at Match, 1908, these totalled
£1,490,367 ; this year, the figures are £1,359,919—a de-
crease of £130,448. The co.’s capital (£10,000) is now
overshadowed by the reserves, which amount to £11,521
—mostly in deposits, debentures, mortgages and land.
And, in view' of the present situation —and want of situa-
tions—this is where the eye rests thoughtfully. The
gross revenue from commission this year is £3809 ; w’hich
works out at ss. 7d. p.c. on the value of trust estates in
hand. (Last year the cost was ss. Id.) Also, on the basis
of capital and reserves, this year’s profits do not show up
as well as last term’s, the record showing £9 os. lOd. per
cent., for 1908, as against £8 14s. sd. for 1909. Still, that
is a fairly handsome return.
* * * *
Last week the papers with one accord made one
of their favorite calculations, and reckoned that, because
shares had been sold at so much one Saturday and so
much more the next Saturday, therefore the market had
put three quarters of a million or so on to the value of
these properties—“ Barriers ” and copper concerns mostly.
Then the man who holds a few hundred of the affected
shares is expected to go out and shout for himself.
Really the shout has mighty little justification. Very
often it happens that a man who is loaded up to the chin
with stuff that he wants to get rid of takes 100 shares at
the close of the market at a price that he would very
gladly sell 1000 at ; and the papers gravely quote that as
the closing price, and make remarks about the rise, and
account for ic by reporting that the winze, or the poppet
head, or something is looking better. Because 500 shares
or so have found buyers at a higher price, it doesn’t follow
that 960,000 could—or even 5000.
On the strength of a resurrected rumor that the
foreign Tongkah tin dredging concession was to be passed
on to J. Bull for £750,000, shares sprang last week to 365.
As a matter of fact, a sale to Bull had been talked of for
weeks ; but absolutely nothing definite has been done.
However, if the forecasts are not grotesque.it doesn’t
need a probable sale to J. Bull to make the shares worth
365. (There are 150,000 £1 shares in the co.) By gradu-
ally increasing the number of dredges to ten, and paying
for them out of earnings, the general manager forecasted
that by 1912 they could pay 295. in divs., or 525. in the
four years 1909-12 inclusive. The estimates and forecasts
read like weird extravagance ; yet, undoubtedly, while
the dredges have been at work they have got better
results than the estimates were based on. What they
haven’t proved, of course, is the quantity of stuff avail-
able ; and that is a large factor in the case.
* * * *
If C. S. Herzig is any judge of a gold mine, the
Oroya-Brown Hill Co. seem to have got hold of a real good
show in La Leonesa, Nicaragua. In the course of a
voluminous report, Herzig says that the property is situ-
ated in a hilly district, principally devoted to the raising
of coffee and cattle ; but its chief value rests in having
£63,466 profit in sight and the prospect of having an
additional surplus of £53,560 for every 100 ft. extension in
depth—without counting subsidiary veins, shoots, and
other gold-bearing bodies said to exist in the mine. The
probability of the main run of ore dipping out of the
property at 500 ft. is mentioned ; but all apprehension on
this score is removed by the pleasinar announcement that
the' Nicaraguan Government—-which seems to be an
obliging sort of body—has granted the co. an additional
area three miles long by 1J miles wide, so as to make the
deep levels secure. The proposition certainly looks
attractive on paper ; but whether it will prove to be so
in reality is simply a matter for gamblers to hazard on.
On March 31, the Golden Ridge (W. A. ), stood
behind the following- array of wealth: Reserve fund
(fixed deposit), £5OOO ; bullion reserve, £4002 ; cash in
hand, £3575 ; and ore reserves, 55,000 tons, of a recover-
able value of 60s. per ton. Then there were 18,500 tons
of sands, 17,000 tons of slimes, and 40 tons of concen-
trates, from which the co. expects to get an extraction of
95., 145., and 2205. per ton respectively. Nothing much
is heard nowadays about the appearance of the main
shoots in the bottom workings ; hut the fact that the
reserves have shrunk 5000 tons, and dropped 2s. per ton
during the last six months, looks a bit significant.
Reckoning the net profit on the ore in sight at £71,500,
and that on the accumulated sands, sliijies and concen-
trates at £14,000, the above figures give the shares a
possible dividend value of £l.
* * * «
Tindals (W. A.) bad better explain itself and be
done with it. Last year’s mill returns were alleged in
the directors’ report to average 9dwt. sgr. per ton ; but
as the gold was only worth 70s. per oz.—about which
nothing was said—the extraction was really 7Jdwt. This
year it has dropped to a little over 6dwt. ; yet, in spite of
these revelations, the co. still harps about its good for-
tune in having 14ft. of 40s. ore exposed for a length of
600 ft. at the No. 2 level. Not a word is mentioned about
the overhead stopes showing a marked falling off in
values; nor are shareholders given the slightest inkling
about returns being propped up with a bit of rich stuff from
the winze below 200 ft. All the co. seems to be capable of is
to strike a sixpenny call every nowand then, and, just prior
to doing so, get assays into print which diverge widely from
mill results ; and, like the photo., the mill hardly ever lies.
When shareholders met in March, the co. owed the hank
and the machinery merchant £3005 ; also, a further ex-
penditure of £4OOO on additional plant had been sanc-
tioned by the Board. No doubt by the time this money
is spent the mine will have a good equipment: hut unless
the co. gets a move on with development in the interim,
when that time comes it may have some difficulty in find-
ing payable ore for the mill to crush. And it is quite on
the cards that the aforesaid bank and machinery man
will have more say in the control of the mine than the
Board of Directors. This, at any rate, is the menace that
now faces the co.
Bowie Wilson, one time of Mount Morgan, and
now (among other things) chairman of the Sandstone
(W. A.), hasn’t been able to tell the Sydney University men
who own most of the shares anything startlingly new about
the property. There isn’t anything surprising in that,
for Manager Whitfield and the other young engineers who
have tackled the Sandstone have put their whole hearts,
not to mention the contents of their pockets, into the
proposition ; and what they know they have let their
shareholder-chumsknow. Bowie Wilson’s peroration is the
stereotyped “ I was very pleased with the whole appearance
of our property, and satisfied with the prospects.” Still
in his detailed remarks he refers to “ the vagaries of the
reef ” ; also to its flatness and the habit it has of splitting
into hanging and footwall bodies, and to hard dolorite
dykes. Further, the gold is coarse, so that the only
sampling worth anything is by means of the battery. By
reason of these things, the Sandstone will probably never
be a mine with more than a year or two’s stone in sight,
so that shares will be speculative. That, however, isn’t
the worst thing that can be said about a mine. Many of
them are not speculative simply because they are hope-
less ; and the Sandstone is quite out of that class.
* * « »
Great Fingall (W. A.) has given another 20 head
of stamps the sack, and only 40 head are now running.
Twelve months ago, when 100 head were in operation
and the monthly output stood at £35,000, the manage-
ment gave a broad hint that something was going to
happen; and, in July, the revenue dwindled to £27,000.
This return was maintained until November, when the
mill had to be closed down on account of the wood-
cutters’ strike; hut, when crushing was resumed in
December, only 60 head were dropped. Since then, the
monthly output has averaged about £14,000 ; but now
that an'additional 20 head has been hung up, it looks as
if another £4500, or thereabouts, is to be chipped off this
amount; and, in view of the frequency of the past year’s
reductions, there is no telling how soon the next
diminution will come along.
* * * *
The public isn’t told too much in the West.
Recently New Baylev’s, Limited, cleaned up 111 loads at
a neighboring mill, and the local paper excitingly an-
nounced the return as £2OOO. The figures were all right;
hut, somehow, the fact wasn’t mentioned that the last
piece of the family plate, in the shape of some hags of
specimens, had to be commandeered from the bank to
turn a poor return into a good one.
* * * *
Up to the end of February, Westralia had ex-
ported £2,220,476 worth of minerals other than gold, the
total being made up as follows :—Copper, £774,166; tin,
£826,451 ; silver, £216,881 ; silver lead ore, £6293 ; other
minerals, £396,685. During 1908, the copper export
amounted to £57,187 ; tin, £83,295: silver, £18,877 ;
silver lead ore, £4427 ; other minerals, £3629.
* * * *
Dividends amounting to £543,510 were paid by
the Westralian gold companies for the four months ended
April. Contributors to the total were: Ivan hoe,
£140,000; Golden Horseshoe, £90,000; Kalgurli, £75,000 ;
Great Boulder, £65,625 ; Associated Northern, £52,500 ;
Boulder Perseverance. £35.000; Orova-Brown Hill,
£22,500 ; Sons of Gwalia, £12,188 ; Black Range, £10,875 ;
Golden Ridge, £6953; Gwalia South, £6000; Mararoa,
£5OOO.
* * * *
The Longreach (Queensland) district made the
find of its life the other day. While work was progressing
in the second sub-artesian bore, at Rosedale, a seam of
coal 3ft. thick was struck at a depth of about 150 ft. On
being tested the inky mass was found to be of excellent
quality. ,
“Melilla”: The Durham Consols Co., at
Georgetown (Etheridge goldfield, Queensland), has paid a
first dividend of 3d. And shares are still about Is. 6d. or
Is. 9d.! There are 100,000 shares of ss. (paid up to 2s. Bd.)
in this co. The attempt to rope in outsiders by a 3d.
div. is not likely to be successful. The co. once had (and
mav yet have) an option on an old-fashioned battery not
far away. When the mine can show good bodies of stone
blocked out, and has erected a modern mill, it will be
time enough to start paying dividends. The 3d. would
have been better invested in a rock drilling plant. The
Durham could also do some sinking to advantage, and
see if it can get any good stone below where the reefs
went “buck,” a nasty feature out that way. Considering
the price of shares, and the fact that they didn’t boom at
the mention of a dividend, the public evidently thinks so
too ’ * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers
(Queensland), has to continue shaft-sinking, and there is
also much cross-cutting and driving to do. No. 6, on the
hanging-wall reef, gets poorer as it is risen oh. Over a
short length of driving No. 6 hanging wall and No. 6
footwall reef (East Mexican) .proved exceptionally rich.
No. 7 on the main Day Dawn was the level that caused
the market to hound from 3s. 6d. to 275., for it was con-
sistently good for the first 400 ft. of driving. But the
level below (No. 8) was just as consistently poor for a long
distance, although in the rise things have a better
look. East Mexican has got nothing yet but an
improved formation carrying mineral. Both Clark's
Brilliant and Queen Cross are in better favor. The latter
has more than one formation to explore. Bonnie Dundee,
after paying four dividends (£12,000), has to do develop-
ment work. The reef has crushed remarkably well, hut
the pace has depleted ore reserves. The bottom level has
been driven 320 ft. on a barren formation carrying a good
deal of white quartz. Prospects are spoken of as slightly
more favorable lately. The three upper levels should
supply some payable crushings and pay for more
development.
* * * *
The decreased output of the Mungana (Queens-
land) mines has caused Chillagoe to suspend smelting
operations, but preparations for starting another copper
smelting campaign, with supplies of ore drawn from
Chillagoe mines, are in full swing. The Einasleigh mine
has also sent in a train-load of ore. Mungana mines will
probably increase their output of ore, as preparations are
bein<r made for stoping the Lady Jane 420 ft. level and
such portions of the 320 ft. level that cgn be worked with
safety. The Girofla is also turning out some good ore.
• * * »
Carrington United (Charters Towers, Queens-
land) reports a fortnightly crushing of 250 tons for £947
and 27 tons of concentrates. The value of copper and
gold contained in a ton of concentrates is approximately
£l4, and this mine has been stacking concentrates for
some time past. Debts are about wiped off, and the com-
pany is on a sound footing. This result has been partly
brought about by an improvement in the battery returns.
For last half-year 2400 tons of stone returned £6408, or
535. 4d. per ton.
Still another gold rush to North Queensland
(near Georgetown). As usual, there appears to be a con-
siderable amount of *‘ blow ” and drivel about the report,
arid the find will not absorb all the surplus labor in the
district. The warden wires that there is nothing to war-
rant a rush. The gold is confined to one small gully,
and prospectors outside that area are getting only colors.
It does not appear that the Oaks will be eclipsed this
time.


Lady Telephone Attendants. —Applica-
tions are being called by the Commonwealth
•Public Service Commissioner for candidates for
positions of lady telephone attendants in the
'Postmaster-General’s Department. The salaries
rise to £llO per annum by regular annual incre-
ments. Stott & Hoare’s Business College is
giving special individual coaching to intending
candidates at a moderate fee, and those intending
to sit are recommended to apply at once. All
particulars can be had on application to the
College office, Moore Street, opposite Govern-
ment Savings Bank, Sydney.*
“ I will introduce a measure,”
Said the Premier with,much pleasure ;
“One that all will deem a treasure,
One that’s certain to endure !
Every old-ag-e pension claimant •
Shall receive both food and raiment,
And all members double pavment,
Also. Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
APPENDICITIS.
You may pronounce it “ Appende-cye-tis ” or
! “ Appendee-ce-tis,” but doctors pronounce it
'“dangerous.’’ It’s cause—a bit of undigested
jfood, or a speck of hard matter which has found
jits way into the vermiform appendix and has set
lup an inflammation. The result—excruciating
pain, high fever, and sometimes death. Is it not
logical that a clean intestinal tract, a perfect
acting liver and stomach, a healthy diges-
tion will do much to prevent appendicitis?
[FRANZ JOSEF Natural Aperient Water will
[keep your bowels regular, your system normal,
jand will ward off not only appendicitis,, but a host
(of other troubles as well. A wineglassful before
[breakfast will do you a world of good all day.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention, to
the Cuisine. .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
Proprietor
ABORIG-
ALITIES
TROUBLE IN THE TREES.
The Westralian Government Entomologist has returned
from a tour in Europe, America, and China with a num-
ber of new parasites for destroying fruit and vegetable
pests. —News Item.
FIRST TREK PEST: “ Invaded , by Gad! Why
didn't we look to our defence before. It’s
disgraceful. We're slower than the Aus-
tralians.”
“Wang”: He this bush-fire controversy,
let me remark that, in a sense, both those
who say a bush-fire travels fast and those
who say the other thing are right. The
main fire, if I may be allowed to call
it so, is a comparative snail. It is the burning
pieces of bark and leaves and sparks carried along
high in the air, and dropped, perhaps, a
mile further on, that give the blaze the
appearance of being a hurried concern. I
have seen the bush burning in a casual
way two miles ahead of the main conflagra-
tion, with the intervening country as yet un-
touched. The phenomenon was caused by pieces
of burning bark, etc., being cast forward, while
the main element was laboring far in the rear:
The taller the timber the faster the fire.
In ti-tree scrub, no matter how hard the
wind is blowing, the fire’s rate of progression
is dead slow. Apropos , let me recommend you, if
you are a-weary and in search of speed and rush
and thrill generally, to get a grass fire going. I
once, in the long ago, started a grass fire. 1 did it
deliberately. Possibly in my small boy mind I had
some germ of an idea of the possibility of contro-
versies re the speed of fires cropping up in The
Bulletin in after years. It was a calm still day,
with not a breath of wind of any sort, about: I
selected the middle of a cleared paddock, stood
ready with my four sizes-too-large felt hat in my
hand to beat out the flame if it grew over-demon-
and dropped a lighted match into the
grass. Then I stood and watched developments.
The fire burnt a patch as big as a dinner-plate for
a start, and then suddenly made a dive westward.
So did I with my hat, and chancing to turn saw
another flame streaking eastward. I attacked
that; but before I knew where 1 was the fire had
spread out, and was racing along harder than I
could run, with a good breeze behind it. Where
the breeze came from I don’t know. It wasn’t
there five seconds before. In ten minutes a strip
of country a mile wide was blazing merrilv, and
I was fleeing the scene in disorder. It took two
days and all the men in the district to subdue
that outbreak, and the cause of it was put down
to spontaneous combustion or something. I pre-
served my secret, and a cold stony silence, and the
ruins of my hat.
* * * *
“ Silas Snell We wore putting up a bat-
tery at the Gold Key, and, as general assistant
and rouseabout, I had to make many excursions
to Toll bar township. On the occasion of my
second visit I was swept down into deep dust by a
rush of five men in Main- (and only) street. When
I picked myself out of the pulverised loam, I per-
ceived that four of the men were in pursuit of the
fifth, a small, shaggy, wild-looking character, who
was running like the dog ahead of the race at
Flemington. One man captured the small run-
away:. and towed him through the sifted dirt.
The victim struggled and kicked and bit, but the
three unsuccessful pursuers seemed to lose all
interest in the event at this point, and scattered
to their various affairs, leaving the captor
to do his best with his prize. On an-
other occasion I saw the same stunted,
hirsute person shoot out of a hotel door,
singing “Rule Britannia” furiously. Instantly
two men darted at him, and he uttered a yell and
broke for the tall timber. A man on' a cart
jumped almost on top of the fugitive, and
grabbed. “He’s mine!” cried the carter, and
summarily hoisted his prey into the cart, and
drove off, sitting on the victim. Fora third time
I witnessed the catching of the stunted individual.
He was leaning dreamily against a tree when I
saw him, and the Tollbar cobbler was stalking
him with great patience. The cobbler made
frantic dumb show in my direction, signalling me
back, and then crept up, inch by inch, until, with
a jump, he landed his man. The boot mechanist
was astride a frothing and vindictive elector when
I. drew nigh with pertinent inquiries. “Oh,
him?” said the cobbler, indicating the man
underneath, “ He’s all right.” The lucky hunter
was filling hispipe in the most casual way, “ He’s
Tommy Hannah. He’s got a grand farm out
under Eagle Head. He’s bin drinkin’, and his
missus offers a standin’ reward of five bob to any
one vvhat’ll catch him when he’s drinkin’, and
■tote'him home.- This is 35 bob I’ve made out of
Tommy.”
“T.A.W.”: the remarks of “XXX”
(B. 15/4/’O9) rc the value of the currajong as a
shade tree are interesting, but I am afraid he is
somewhat wide of the mark when he speaks of it
as a quick-growing tree. Presumably he refers to
the green currajong (Hibiscus heterophyllus),
which is naturally a very slow grower, and I am
afraid that if “XXX” remained out in the
Australian sun whilst one of these trees was
attaining to decent shade proportions he would be
possessed of a complexion that would lead Bruce
Smith to clasp him to
his manly bosom
and hail him
as a friend
and brother.
Neither is the
currajong by
any means an
easy tree to
grow, as I my-
self know by
reason of many
unsuccessful at-
tempts. Also,
“XXX’s” idea
of pulling it up
by the roots doesn’t cut any ice with me. Like
many other members of the order Malvaceae, to
which it belongs, the-currajong is possessed of a
large, tuberous, primary root, which renders the
transplantation of even the smallest specimen an
occasion for a very considerable amount of spade
exercise. Altogether, the currajong does not seem
to me to fill the bill as a shade tree.
t * * *
“Alec Zander” : I know a place in
Queensland where Nature will some day make
one of the finest overshot dams in the world. On
the vast tableland that stretches for many miles
north-west of the Flinders there is a mighty rent
in the basalt that looks as if some giant had torn
the mountain asunder. The rent or chasm is
many miles long, and in places 200 ft. or 300 ft.
deep. It is locally known as the “Devil's Tattoo”
(why Tattoo I don’t know). At one spot, where
it is at its deepest, the walls narrow so that you
could throw your hat across. At the base the
water has eaten its way in so deeply that millions
of tons of rock are only waiting' a good earth
tremor to go crashing down. The fall will fill up
the canon at least 150 ft. deep and form a dam
that will throw the stream back for many miles
and hold as much water as Sydney Harbor.
PRESERVING HIS
NAME.
JOHNNO: “ What yer goin’ ter
do with that sixpence, Billo!”
BILLO : "Give it to the Dreadnought Fund and get me name in the Sydney TELEGRAPHT.”
JOHNNO (persuasively): “ Better make a drought relief fund of it, an’ I’ll engrave yer name
on ther tablets of me mern’ry.”
“ Moorabinda ” : Apropos your par (B.
l/4/’O9) rc Captain W. li. Randell. There were
really two staunch advocates of the navigation of
the Murray—Mr. E. Morey and Mr. Samuel Mac-
gregor. There were likewise two obstacles in the
way. for Melbourne was exceedingly jealous of. the
brisk trade that was going to its neighbor on the
west, and it was very difficult to obtain the neces-
sary cash with which to give practical effect to
the venture. The idea, like most other out-of-
the-ordinary propositions, was laughed at by
business men. However, Morey saw Captain
Stuart, the explorer, who had, on his last journey,
pulled down the Murray, and had introduced him
to Governor Young. The Governor requested
Morey to furnish a fair estimate of the probable
trade, a request which Morey speedily complied
with, for he recognised that it was advisable to
pound the iron while it was warm. Then Captain
Cad ell pulled down the river, from Swan Hill to
Lake Alexandria, and the impressions made on
him are shown by the fact that shortly afterwards
he took up the first steamer that ever traversed
the great waterway. The craft was a rough-
decked boat, with improvised engines, fitted by
an enterprising miller from the Adelaide side. It
took a month to make Swan Hill, for the'vessel’s
maximum speed stemming the current yv^s'only
three or four miles per hour. After, the vice-
regal visit, Gov. Young travelled on the pioneer
vessel, which, out of compliment, 'was named
after his wife. Trade hounded forward' like a
kangaroo with an urgent appointment’in the next
parish. Steamers and their satellite barges were
multiplied, and the Murrumbidg,eeii and the Dar-
ling, as well as their, minor .branches, suffered
their fresh-water shallows to be invaded, con-
quered, and exploited by a fleet of mercantile
business-feeders of the flat-bottomed type.
• * * *
“Dandalup”: What.is man’s best com-
panion Outback ? Many will plump for the noble
horse, exceedingly many for' the faithful canine.
But, withal, I have known men (boundary riders,
fossickers, shepherds, a,nd such iikp) mould a life-
long friendship with snakes, gohannas, wild cats,
lizards, etc.; while• others, living right on the
Edge, have thrown' in their lot with rats (visible
and otherwise), spiders, centipedes, and even
fantods. I knew one old fellow (a fossicker up in
Nor’-Westralia) who had two constant com-
panions : an alligator and a black gin. He called
them both “ Mary,”; but, of the two, I think he
was more attached td the alligator. Another
friend of mine, down South, revelled in the com-
pany of one dog, ditto cat, ditto snake, and ditto
bob-tail gohanna. Whenever he .vent for a stroll he
would take the whole family with him. But the
best companion, according to my way of cogita-
ting, is a good accordion. It doesn’t smoke, drink,
eat, or sit heavily on your chest when you’re feel-
ing off color. I once went up. the track with a
mate who was a real Paderewski, on this class of
musical machine, and, besides cheering us up
when on the tramp and round the camp fire, his
implement was the means of acquiring us many
beers and much tucker, tobacco, and small change.
When my mate played he could squeeze anything
out of even the most hardened old Outbacker who
ever breathed—except work. You see, he never
played when there was anything resembling toil
floating around in the atmosphere. Often, when
night had spread her star-dusted mantle over all
the world, the snakes—drayloads of them —would
gather around the fire to drink in the melodies of
“ Dolly .Grey ” and “ Break the News to Mother.”
The writings of “ Mallarapoonie
“ Huffi'n-Guflin ” (B. 8/4/’O9) asks what is the favorite
occupation of Aboliars? Mine is prospecting.
Followed on up-to-date lines, it is a magnificent life,
even though most prospectors remain poor. With six or
eight flrat-class pack and saddle horses, and with full
equipment of tucker, tools, firearms and instruments, I
know of no finer occupation than that of an active pros-
pector amid the remote regions of Australia, far beyond
the usual haunts of men. Sometimes alone, but usuallv
accompanied by a mate in country where the natives aie
not yet civilised or subdued, the prospector’s occupation
has-fascinations in it that none other I know has to offer.
But those fascinations positively refuse to be destribtd
by any pen. The prospector’s land seems to be a
region sacred—sacred in so far that the real joys
UNAGCOUNTABLE.
“You seem quite impressed. Bill."
“ Yes. An’ I don’t know which it is. Y'r
fetchin’ smile or y’r Merry Widder ’at.”
of the work are those that lie inexpressible in
the depths of every true bushman’s heart. Pros-
pecting is not so much a trade as a sentiment, the
basis of which may be found in,the undying love of the
Ishmaelite for the land that is all in all to him.
And, apropos , the only Australian writer who has come
near the subject, who has skirted—-merely skirted, I say
’-the border of the Region of the Silent Wastes in that
language of truth and of simplicity which bushmen best
understand, is Randolph Bedford. Bedford at some time
in his life has looked across the border into the Silent
Wastes. He has seen them, perhaps, from the bald sum-
mit of some steep range at sundown, when,
As Orient temples flared to God
The western peaks in the sunset burned.
And the result has been a flash—just one short flash here
and there among his writings— to show that he has seen.
ERE THE MISSIONARY CAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Before the advent of the missionaries there was no such
thing- as morality from the Christian point of view. One
of the first things they did was to get regulations framed
to enforce Christian laws in the matter of marriage.
They organised a system of nocturnal surprise visits,
which made life irksome to those who preferred the old
customs. Now Funafuti is one of the most moral places
in the world. ... A man was fined Is. every time lie
absented himself from church, and was fined and im-
prisoned for washing himself or cooking food on a
Sunday. A Chinaman, who was put ashore on the island
for misbehaving on his ship, and who felt the Sabbaths
wearisome, by way of passing- the time went off in a canoe
to fish. He was compelled to come ashore and rest all
day, although he blasphemed horriblyat this interference
with his liberty.—“ Funafuti," by Mrs. Professor David.
They were guileless and were happy ere the missionary
chappie
liaised his gasworks on their island and expounded
prayer and hymn ;
They were innocent and cheerful till the preacher, sad
and tearful,
Came to tell them of Gehenna and its sulphur-bunkers
grim !
On their lone Pacific atoli there was neither strife nor
battle,
There were cocoanuts for eating—life was just a gladsome
game;
But alas ! these things have altered since the parson rose
and paltered—
There was bliss in Funafuti ere the missionary came !
Now the folk are very moral, and they likewise fi«-ht and
quarrel—
Yea, they wrangle o’er the Sabbath, o’er the dreadful
Day of Bust;
’Tis a sin to wash on Sundays—they must do such chores
on Mondays,
They must bow the knee in prayer—quoth the Holy One
“ You must! ”
I-Ie who skips the tabernacle, and unfurls his fishing-
tackle— ®
He is fined and rushed to prison under penalty of flame ;
Life indeed is very weary, it is dismal, damp and dreary—
Things were gay at Funafuti ere the missionary came !
Ere his Bethel-bell had jangled—ere his hitching laws
new-fangled
YVere established on those islands, bare existence was a
boon ;
Solonaima’s eyes a-flashing, then the Pagan swimmers
splashing,
Spent a cleanly heathen Sabbath in the coral-paved
lagoon !
Now beneath the palm-trees’ frondage they are tied in
Gospel-bondage—
Yea, no more they bathe together. Life is derelict and
tame ;
They are moaning, they are weeping, where they once
went gladly leaping—
There was joy in Funafuti ere the missionary came !
With his Gimlet, sharp and trusty, 10, the parson-person
dusty,
Spieth nightly on the people who prefer the olden ways ;
Creeping forth in hours nocturnal with his gimlet mind
eternal,
Hear him moaning through the keyhole on the distant
Ellice cays!
Prophet still of Tophets awful, hear him bleating: “’Tis
unlawful!
Ye are sinners, ye shall suffer when the Pit its own shall
claim ;
Pay ye fees and get ye married ’’—thus the simple folk
are harried—
Love was warm on Funafuti ere the missionary came !
But those islands now are numbered with the lands Com-
mandment-cumbered—
Yea, the cult of Gloom enwraps them, hear the deacons
loudly snore ;
For the missionary grabbeth at the Chow who wrecks the
Sabbath,
And the curse of Plate and Patter falleth sadly on the
shore !
Solonaima’s limbs no longer through the surf flash brown
and stronger—
They have taught the island-Naiad that her Legs are
cause for shame ;
And the Parson holds ’tis duty to expel all joy and
beauty—
Life was Life, in Funafuti ere the missionary c-ame !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


Mrs. Webber, Sharp Street, Geelong,
Vie., writes: —“Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is a
wonderful liniment for cuts and bruises or rhem,
matism. Every member of my family has used
some time or other and have always
relief after a few applications. One tiling I have
always noticed is that when Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm is used for a cut or burn, there is never any
scar left on the flesh.”*
That stabbinp
■ "lumbago.
pain in the small of the back, which
accompanies every movement of the body, has its cure in
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment. Obtainable every-
where, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Equals Them ?
NO!
No other Watjch the world over equals the “Fx&R”
Watch in value, in strength, in profound accuracy.
They are f-plate Levers.
They have Brequet Hair Springs.
They have Compensated and Adjusted Balances.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are specially made to stand hard riding and knock-
ing about, and vvilhgo with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for i-o years,, and kept in order for
two years (breakages excepted) without charge.
They are made in every style of case.
There are three-quarters of a century of experience and
reputation behind the above statements.
Write for Catalogue.
FAIRFAX &it-ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
P,ain casT es ] 23 Hunter Street
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.M.C. : Some promise, but the art of two kids aged
10 and 12 is not to be taken seriously R.F.R. : The
beer joke palls at times, and the tramp joke grows
weary : and the beer-tramp joke becomes even a dead
weight and an oppression A.W.H. : The British House
of Commons isn’t at all like your picture, and you try to
pass off two aged Quakers for modern politicians
H.S.C. : The Wesleyan Church joke is old, and the drink
joke isn’t much g00d.... Bert R. : Sketches inferior, and
both gags are old acquaintances Leila :It is good for
your age. How far you will go we can’t say . B. B. :
“ Ladies, Toe the Line,” has nothing to recommend it,
artistically or otherwise.. R.M.I. : What in thunder is
the picture about —apart, that is, from the fact that it is
about eight inches by four? .. Draco Rex: No promise
about drawing.... Shirley 0. : Tramway-cnr joke t
pan out enough mirth to the ton... .A.W.H. . After-
math” fell into the bottomless pit of rejection.
Smoker: Poor joke; ditto drawing. Fear the others
have perished.... Blot: 1 1 is—abloton the landscape....
P. Raynor : Drawing accepted as a suggestion ; send ad-
dress to accountant.... .Wombat: Horrible sketch ; and
we have expended four valuable minutes trying .ruit-
lessly to resolve'the joke appended thereto... C.A.P.:
Drawing quite impossible. The mall’s neck looks like the
leg of an elephant.. . .Cross Nibs: We have buried the
painful pictorial subject—buried it deep in the boundless
basket,.. ..Lex J.: Very bad drawing of two very dreary
men one of whom is supposed to be making very ordinary
remark Shaw: Your characters are even more in-
credible about the legs than the peer in the Young
Ladies’ Journal, and his legs represent two factory
chimneys with trouSers 0n.... Alec : When things so
bad coherent criticism becomes difficult A.VV.S. : Pic-
ture of impossible female with naked legs standing in 2ft.
of water. Declined.... H.W.S. (Gunnedah): Drawing
bad, and we weren’t convulsed at the joke... .Bodan-
gora • No. If you send any more drawings by 13-year-old
children, we will lay the office Thug on your trad
Gent.’s Open
Face Oxidised
Case, J-plate
movement,
15 jewels, 33/-
With 7 jewels,
28/-
I.ONOON
Letter received from Brown Brother by a ,
Maoriland dentist. The writer, by the why, is a
graduate of Te Aute Maori College :
' Hick’s Bay,- March', ’O9. ,
Mr. Pittar, Te Araroa.
Sir, —Will you kindly fixtthe girl new sets of teeth, and
write all the use of them. Also, to stuff up one of her
tooth, the one I sawed you. if you Please , kindly stuff it
if its ready to stuff it up. if you can do it-, and Charge,
to me I will pay you when you’ll be. back again. But if
you’ll do it will make the gold show out to the front, a
good size of it.
two of them girl wanted to stuff their teeth if you
find the elderst girl tooth good for stuff will stuff her.two
front teeth if only one of her teeth good to stuff.
And will; have the bad one out. next, time von .he up
again. Please let me know, before yon .pomes up again?.:
Gold will show out in front.
. Yours faithfully
Hknark Annual.
P.S. Let me know your address in Gisborne.
A LITTLE LATE :
“ And then he biffed me in the eye."
“ Couldn't yer git out of his reach?”
“ I did, twenty feet —after he hit. me.”
The typical Melbourne advt - is
nothing if not thoroughly, refined. This is from
the issue 7/f>/’O9 : -
TX/'ILL person who Found Black and White Lady
VV Pup, three-corner'medal, return- iiufSiivith-st..
Reward. '
It is through the ArgU|3 that the right-thinking-
cocky appeals, under certain cireumstahCes, for
the return of his Young Gentleman Cow that has
gone astray. * - C *' '
“ Liarbird ” : -On a' stiH-,. warm'Sabbath, .a,
hawker reached the front' gate of an aiycTent'
dwelling on the outskirts of a,thirsty bush'retnpte-
ness. The hawker’, was tired and hungry, f and
business wSs ■>bsd; ! * It. was a long way to the
HIS LOSS.
MOTORIST (after the accident , to angry deadbeat who has just been gallantly rescued): “ What
the deuce are you swearing about. If it hadn’t been for this gentleman youd have
been run over.”
DEADBRAT: "Blast ’im! If it ’adnt been for ’is bloomin ’ interference look at the damages
I-d ’ a 'ad outer yer.”
house—up-a rise, down a gully, across a foot-
bridge - and- up another rise. 1-he pedlar found
the- farmer at home. He turned out to be a
Scotchman, “Til be wantin’ naethin th day !
snarled the Scot, angrily''; d’y’no ken it’s the
Sawbath?” The pedlar made no reply, but
turned and tramped wearily back, down the rise,
across tbe footbridge, up the gully and down the
rise. When he reached the gate he looked back,
. and could * see the, Scotchman afar off, beckoning
him' to return. Up the rise he went, down the
gully, across’the footbridge and up the other rise,
with hope in bis heart. “AIIV said the fecotch-
nura, brusquely, “ye ueedna be callin’ to-morrow,
neither !” Then, again, did the pedlar turn away
arid walk down the rise, across the footbridge, up
the gully and down the 1 rise.
“ Marloo ” : Some.time back I approached
a neglected-looking^humpv on the N.S.W. North
Coast, and found dad puffing at his pipe while he.
perused some written matter. He informed me
that he had just completed his duties as secre-
tary •to the local ■ “ Progress Association.” I
then had to read . his speech on butter-
grading, \to be delivered at the Council of
'the P.A. on the? following day. He took
a day to-.manufacture his speech, he said ;
and as the to\yn: was 20 miles away the
meeting- would mop up two days of his
life.- He said that the Progress Ass. -
occupied much of his time, because he
pouldn’t see to do any of the writing at
night. When leaving I. had to pass
dad’s scrubicorn.' There I saw dad’s
wife and the girls struggling valiantly
through burnt logs and stumps to
reach -the' cobs, while dad's son
shouldered the bags to a brushed
track, where a slide waited for the
load: Dad has instilled into the
minds of . his wife and family
that they will never have abroad, to
the place if he neglects the Pro-
gress'Association, and they ad-
mire their clever dad. In a cer-
tain wayback cow district there are
bye Progress Associations within a
raifeos of four miles. The president
of each, is the big. dog of his small
iogii^iw' Efforts were made to amal-
fell through. If
■ Sjirbokfe of Misery Valley, were
rhadet.-president of the amalgamated
five, ■ th,e shock of falling from their
positions'as big dogs would be too great
■fof the rphiftining four ; so’the vvhole five
continue e °'be presidents, and five more
continue to be Secretaries, and mum and the girls
cbnti tine ( .tp pursue'the occasional corn-cob among
the.'burnt logs-.- ;
From m J.-Pannikin-•”
ilei'i’is;«],example of the wildly interesting'statistical
recbtds'.of bird -life that' sobfe' papers publish under the
headi tig ‘'torture Study Notes.” It came to me bearing
/a note Memo,' - to ‘ Jimmie Pannikin 1: It’s time that
you' and men.llke ypu,.:Who do knoWsomething about the
Bus'll gave up che.funjij' Jflimiy, flippant, style of The Bul-
letin’s' 1 Abo/isrini‘fiti'es.’ and ;gqt idowm to serious, solid,
'sbientifie studyt’*' I ehelbse, a pie,pafc'that will serve
as-a modeland the'signature; was. “ Wun Lung”:— / _
F0f ; ,4:?83-’years a-willie Wagtail has made a? point of
winterin'"-'at the Royal Hotel, Gundagai, a lively town on
the Mdddybidgee River.; : .Tl>e bicd's'fayorite room is the
room. S-watched'.' him one cold, wet morning'
recefttly.” He was catching' fliesf,: and his flying catches
were remarkable, for his aim was-unerring. Only-once
in 85, tries:did he fail to score. - Occasionally he would
capture three flies in bewilderingly swift succession while
oil the whig-. He caught the'B4 flies ip/20min. 17sec. ;
then a commercial traveller’s necktie frightened him out
of. the- room. '"-He perched 19 times on the “Grace
'Darling "picture, 17 times on ‘‘-The- Old-, Old Story,” 16
times on “The Haunt of the Seagulls,” nine times on
’ J “-Rohert Emmett,” and 46 times' on the gas globes.
After he bad swallowed 60. flies, his bow,window began,to
bfll«m ai bit; still’ he’dlirted-hither and thither with
almost incredible swiftness. The wagtail has black and
white plumage, two legs, two eyes, and only one tail.
He never sleeps at night, but flits about, singing
“Sweet, Pretty Creature.” This bird is bigger than a
tomtit, but is not quite as bulky as a bower bird.
Do you wish me and six others to adopt this style for
Bulletin pars ? _ • y
THE CURATE’S CURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The medical officer of Tonga has protested against the
treat post-hemiplegic athetosis, it is time to piotest.
News item. .
Down at Tonga’s palmy isle,
Where the men alone are vile,
And, the poet tells us, every pro,spept pleases..
There the missions take your-soul,
And, as soon as it is whole,
They turn their hand to bodily diseases.
They’re great .on treating bodily diseases.
They can set a fracturedlimb . Y
With a snatch of earnest hymn ;
Put plasters on the soul that scarlet sin decks , ~
And-when the coons regret
All the enemies they’ve ate.
They fit them with a new opsonic index.
There’s nothing like a high opsonic index.
For hidden marvels lurk s
In the missionaries’ work ;
A sermon for the ailing proselyte is
Sufficient to restore
Him to perfect health. And more
Than once it’s cured the worst appendicitis.
It’s just the thing for bad appendicitis.
To stop an aneurism
There’s the Shorter Catechism ;
A collect,kills all;typhoid in the diocese;
While earnest scraps of prayer,
Atomising in the air, '
Suffice to deal with ankylos tomiasis.
An easy one is ankylos tomiasis.
A tea-meeting will serve
To relieve th(j shattered nerve,
While tracts, dispensed in allopathic doses,
Checkmate the Devil’s game
As they travel through the frame
To reach post-hemiplegi.c athetosis. »
The Bible class is keen on.athetosis.
Thus they’ve built.the.sinners weak
Up with Johnsonesque physique, /
And sterilised their souls with antiseptics,;
Till each healthy Christian coon -
On a Sunday afternoon
Is a picture that-should paralyse the.,sceptics.,...
All they want's a prophylactic for the.sceptics.;
n.s. w.
A. B.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (excevt of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications in sufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Bacon : To put the matter shortly, Wade says
he gave Govern merit briefs to Wise, not because the latter
was a first-class lawyer, but because of personal sym-
pathy. And Wade says he afterwards took away Govern-
ment briefs, not because Wise was a bad lawyer, but
because he (Wade) was personally aggrieved. And it is
difficult to say which statement makes Wade look the
more disreputable. . . .M.P.K. : The worst of your brand
of poetry is that everybody knows how to do it, and
while some gracefully refrain, most do it.—L.F.Y.: If
the flea had risen in it's might and killed the spook, there
would have been something in your yarn. The other way
about, the adventure reads tame Plough-boy: May
use one item H.G. : Story of irate telephone sub-
scriber out of date, especially since Royal Commission has
been sitting. Staccato jingle about football booted out
Junius: Dorothea, who “ fondly fumbled with
her fairy hands,” is too much of an ass to in-
terest sane adults. Even the worm turned at
her. The shorter piece is mere word-stringing... .
Mole: Take it as an axiom that all jokes having their
basis in the effects of pills are fore-doomed... Brace:
“The Bracemau” is doggerel.... Louis H. T. : The story
was absolute drivel, and you were answered to that effect
—in moderation. ...Apex: On perusing “Asia,” the Re-
ligious Editor went on the drink, and there is a general
feeling in the office thst in'all the circumstances he was
perfectly justified in taking this step. Desist from such
blasphemies for the future . . . G.J.M. B. : Verses far too
rough B. Dale: Not a bad idea, but Donald-
son” isn’t' worth a whole illustration to himself
Bromide : Good stuff, but ■ it’s far too loosely
thrown together L.J.M. : Proposal for . altering
the name of The Bulletin, duly to hand.
Ormond Wright: “ His Marriage ” is horrible piffle.
A.J.B. : Ay, it is a palpable steal W.J.D. :
“lone” is sentimental Verse of a very ordinary
character.... M. O’S, : “ Tragedy of the Bush,” with its
haunting item re “ the smell that emanated from the dead
body,” is now numbered among the tragedies of the
W.P.B. Its ghastliness and its ultra-realism were the
main causes.. . .Arm : Courteously but very firmly refuse
to start an Allen Taylor fund! for an Australian navy.
Nations are not saved by passing round the hat.... J.P. :
Kennel up. We decline to have any argumentative
truck with people so immature as still to enjoy the glad
youthful rapture of signing B.A. after their names....
ifargie: Poem about corsets in Court leaves us unmoved.
Let the galled jade wince.... W.M.: You mustn’t resur-
rect “ Ouida’s ” nerves in this paper.. . .A.D.: Unneces-
sarily frank expression to apply to Phyllis.... A.U.S.: As
Australia is now awake, it wouldn’t be fair to publish
your harassing but well-intentioned verses....F.W.: (1)
Can’t make out what your epic means. Do you know ?
Anyway, the poet who makes “ Andromeda ” rhyme with
“bleed her” needs a course of Swinburne. (2) Hero
shiears his best girl’s eyelids with pungent acids, so that
she mayn’t see sin and sorrow lurking in dark ways. He
{flight have givep her the option.... Gallia : Try it on a
Woman’s Paper 1 not the slightest use or interest to us...
A.F.J.M.: Your story tells how a drunken youth made a
contemptible nuisance of himself—and you think it funny.
. .. Proxy :V“ Rather clever for a boy ”? Possibly ; but
you know the fly in the amber parable F.W.: Cheer-
fully decline Australasian rights in your suicide ab-
surdity.... ~W.J.C. : Eschatological machinery very
antiquated—wants oiling, or',the scrap heap S.M.W.N.:
We have what you call “a patition erected ” against such
stories E.V.A.: The murdered rooster disquisition of
no use.... Sawdust King: Poster screed about your
“ blanky Thomas cat ” and Barney and yourself declined
with pleasure.. ..C.E.N.: “ Great morality among: sheep
.—No, thank y0u.... H.M.0.: No points about pencil jest
on blue paper.... Quo Vadis : Thanks for song. Injus-
tice is hardly extensive enough for treatment in these
columns Boggabri: Pars are paid for. lour
letter has been handed the accountant......
Nix : Appropriate pen-name. Alleged jokes not to hand
—probably broke up transport system.... Marroo : tlasty
yarn about an irate landlord jumping on a drunken
larrikin not appreciated Le Vieux Marcheur . the
naughty old gentleman doesn’t march in this paper...
OAW : Tooth story evidently drawn from life ; otner-
wise'uninteresting. ...G.M. : Better treat such expressions
on shearers with silent contempt than rush into lame
iambics about them .. W. W. : Uninteresting story about
how a prudent lady preferred £25 and a new husband to
£lO and an old lover Dave Shaw : The moral of your
story is that a drover whose experience is limited to
taking pigs from Homebush to the slaughtering yards is
not to be trusted in the bush.... A.F.J.M. : Humor of
directing strangers wrong is a bit tired now. The story
too long and obvious ...Skeeter: Note that it wasn 6
Ballarat but the adjacent Linton which had a love-letter
competition. The question isn’t urgent enough, how-
ever; for prolonged comment. ..J.H.L.Z. : \\ar and
Peace” contains some truths, but you haven t the light
touch.... Comical: And so that awful old VViolets
yarn has only just reached you. It has been arriving at,
this office for years past, and has ever been greeted with
blasphemy.. .M. 8.: “ The Venus of Milo deals with too
hackneyed a subject.... Fitz-d: A novel but hopelessly
impracticable suggestion John Phcenix :W. Land s
resumption article was a thought too heavy.... L. \V iscot.
Post the verses to L in person. They are too sacred
for the profane eye of the public.... Hellas : Chestnuts
all'.'., Flying Lass: “Reflections of a Horse
aren’t novel enough, or skilfully enough rhymed.
A.W. 1 No violent demand in this paper for sweet little
stories about a serpent riding up on horseback to break
up a happy home, or about child-angels who fold their
wings and lay their curly heads on each other s shoulders,
whilst God presses a golden button and lets them hear
what earth-people are saying Turkey Quill: May use
“ Ballade.” The storv is a weak treatment of an age-olfl
theme....J.K.S.: Quite an everyday occurrence for a
lon«--lost scion of gentle birth, mad with d.ink and thirst,
to be recalled to temporary sanity when he casually
notices on the chest of the nobleman whom he is strangl-
ing a tattooing of his own coat of arms. Nearly every
bush man has his coat of arms concealed somewhere on
his person with a view to this contingency. So yours is—
was, we should say-a stale item of news, not a gifted
work of imagination.. ..II.O.: May use.. ..H.0.C.: Dust-
bin poetry removed with despatch Ij.R.M. . Incoher-
ence about,a squatter who shot himself 'y' candle-grease
gently gathered up and returned R.W.T.: Neither of
use, notwithstanding your merry letter and the weird
mystery of “ The lucky septemfluous weaks. ...... twig :
Schoolbovish jesting is not com eruent... .H.H.: May
use... ..E'.N.D.: Long poem about axeman declined . .
Mavis': Glad to hear you’re “not addicted to bad lan-
guage,” and that you were “ participated into the fire-
place. But doesn’t it strike you that £25 a year was an
extravagantly liberal salary for a teacher like you 1...
Lucifer: Slavish imitation of a bad m0de1,... A Vagrant.
The lover who feels hurt on discovering' that his dead
mistress has been false to him and to others, as well as to
her husband, is a trite and wearisome personage
Strutter : Don’t you see that self-advertisement is what
is aimed at by the silly person who proposes that Austra-
lian children should collect alms for England ? Also, that
vou give him a shove along by writing poetry about him .
Further, the poetry is below par .... A.H.T. : Glad to hear
that “ Jackeroo ”is ill in bed. Hope he’ll die... Ajar:
What with Mr. Joseph Ward giving England a Dread-
nought and with poets pouring in cacophonies about
him, life is not all beer and skittles just now Car ° s :
Foundation excellent, structure ridiculous G.M. :
Poem about .
“ How we rescued weeping maidens
From grim, captive cruel woes,”
unanimously declined. Your other poem, weirdly mixing
up Kailyard dialect and popular refrains, also sent to its
own place ... D.K. : Are Life and Death and Love
“ strangely simple things?” Yet, there is something in
vour verse. Get at what you really mean, and say it
i.G. : Story about imported Scotch nurse, Scotch super
intendent, and Scotch lover of nurse jointly sitting
upon an imported Scotch lunatic, of no use to u 5....
J.R. : The official in question being still dead, his mania
may safely be left in peace. . H.T. : Any authority for
your use of “ wanton ”? .. Job: Too long, too mono-
tonous, too “classy.” Sunflower: As you suggest,
your metre is “ wrong,” and your poem is “ bosh, and
your “ reference to Ally Sloper is extraneous. Other-
wise, you’re as good a poet as Alfred Austin... _Z. . Jerky
story in “ verse ” of two loafers dying per knife for the
love of scornful bush lady hereby derided Darkie : The
world is getting very tired of hearing how a man manages
to be off with the old love before he is on with the new.
Why add to this tired feeling? Nix: Distinctly not
worth while for you to go on. Study the best models,
learn the laws of prosody—but, above all, get something
to sa y f.B. : Will you swear to the originality of Hi


impute CAjureW
%}>out life use of -fermented v/i*jc
been Compromiysa by 'fcrmcn^a
wine 2*i" S OclocK. Service iv
44nf'e»'fwe»»te^
ttfe rest~
'Australia's England* s»y L o«
|| OClocfCet's 1 *y !y
ijll
c u
/AoUje^t/opgl
" I r is for Hie women
of "to iqculcKfe. i»t
•fffeiK itfacT^en^e
of* wljic'W will rn&Kc.
•ftjetrr 'fo «J» i>}eir
il »£le. £lc^., [c^ouer
s/\. •> 2
TV
' ir(e.m'be.*'s oj' tfie,
o|>fosit7orT vv'oulel be reluc'i'&nT'
'to wits"
At r P?a k tNi’n . ~lijey btofe. *Ytut.ly "to
Condone. : but" reruns
"be Se't' M
MsW?Lyne % irj *
Confcfctice wis
to
"V) «w> |lfom V*y wnion. V|
(j>&% P&jW
'' O Alf- youve. 'treated «rj€ Crool but" if you'll hnJKe if~a Ja
I |l yer 'foi'' of
Ifte c;u —"<2^l“y 0 u sh^ed
j°r fa* tin4.'round witt-fLcA.
«,o«4 ? '\cn%
A X\
%r Wrray rfa ir_Prejk4tTotAgt>t"to &*^W.
PARTLY IN MELBOURNE; PARTLY ANYWHERE.




GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
THERE’S no need to bribe
your boy to clean the
boots when you provide
him with CHERRY BLOSSOM
POLISH. It acts so quickly and
well that he takes a pride in the
work, and brings up a shine of
unusual brilliance. All leading
dealers sell CHERRY BLOSSOM
(Tan and Black) in 3d. and 6d.
tins—the largest at the price.
Write us if you cannot get
supplied.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Cures
Coughs
Angier’s Emulsion is unequalled for
coughs, bronchitis and all lung affec-
tions. By its? soothing and healing
effects it stops the cough, allays inflam-
mation, improves the
breathing and makes
expectoration easy. At
the same time it keeps
■the digestive organs
healthy and has a won-
derfully invigorating
influence upon the
general health. One
day’s trial will convince
you of its soothing,
cough - allaying, lung-
healing power. Forfree
sample send 4d. postage.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4 16.
ANGIERS
Emulsion,
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
JTho flngier Chemical Co., Id., 7 Barrack St.,Sydney^
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Methodist Parson Edgar, of Melbourne’s
Central Mission, is considering a trek to some
other sphere of
spiritual influ-
ence. For more
than 16 years
the tall, big-
bodied mission-
er has been
inishingin Mel-
bourne, and he
now feels that
he has about
arrived at the
tail-end of his
“message” in
the Yarra city.
Accordingly he
is looking for a
further cal 1
from the Lord.
It is a great
thing for the old parson to get a new call. Then
it is that he nails up the top of his keg of sermons,
upends the receptacle, takes out the bottom, and
starts afresh.
Someone took the trouble to have this
published in the 18. M. Herald (12/5/’O9): —
On May, 9, 1909, at Amritsar, India, Gopal Saran
Singh, Maharajah of Tikari, to Elsie,Caroline (Elsie
Forreste), only daughter of James Thompson, Esq.,
J.P., of Taunton, Fern-street, ltandwick. (By cable.)
The ordinary human being whose relative weds a
“ cullud pusson ” preserves an inscrutable silence
on the subject; but there seem to be exceptions
even in this largely white section of the earth’s
surface. ■ ’
Henry, the express bowler of Bananaland,
has lost his wicket to phthisis. When Warner’s
team was in Brisbane, in 1905, Henry was the
hope of the local men, for his bowling was just a
streak of lightning or a brown crack splitting
through the atmosphere. The public thought
beer was the proper expression of its joy at
Henry’s conduct, and it expressed so much joy
that in a year or two Brown Brother was a wreck.
He was sent north to Yarrabah Mission Station,
and there ended his days.
The S.A. Government proposes to erect a
memorial over the grave of John Charles Darke,
at Darke’s Peak, the centre of the country now
being opened up on Eyre Peninsula. Darke was
speared by natives on October 24, 1844. while ex-
ploring thereabouts. He went from N. S. Wales
with Lieutenant King to the new settlement of
Port Phillip, and was one of three surveyors who
assisted in laying out Melbourne, Geelong and
Willnimstown, the other two being Hoddle and
Russell. His remains have struggled along with-
out a memorial for 05 years.
“ Lawyer ” writes :
lie the statement ascribed to Crown Prosecutor Lamb
during the trial of Henry Holland,of Broken Hill, at Albur.v
(N.S.W.), that Chief Justice Fitzgerald had decided that it
was criminal to promote discontent. Who ttos Chief Justice
Fitzgerald, anyhow? There was certainly a Common
Pleas Judge, John David Fitzgerald, who became a Lord
of Appeal 'and a law lord in Parliament. He was once
plaintiff in an action in which he did not shine very
brightly. His son was at a school kept by an uncle of ex-
Governor-General Northcofe. At the school were two
sons of a Tasmanian resident who had gone to the island
as a guest of the Government—-in other words, he was a
somewhat unwilling emigrant. He amassed wealth,
and sent his descendants to England to be edu-
cated. Young, Fitzgerald knew the Origin of the
lads, and did all he could to annoy them.
Mr. Northcote protected (hem ; and as an outcome of Fitz-
gerald’s caddish proceedings that youth was expelled the
school. The Judge, who had married into the peerage,
took an action against Northcote, and on one, a minor
count, he obtained a verdict for £5. Sometimes his
opinions are quoted, but he w'as, as most Irish Judges
were and are, a second-rate man appointed on political
grounds.
Little Sammy Way handed Explorer
Shackleton butter on an ungodly dish on the
occasion of his Adelaide lecture, or rather he
poured the substance over him in great bucketfuls,
so that it was “like the precious ointment that
flowed down Aaron’s beard, even to the skirts of
his garment.” The subject of the vice-regal
eulogium looked desperately uncomfortable during
the process, and the audience extended to him a
heart-full of pity. Ultimately it ; came to his
rescue by drowning the Oily Way with applause.
There perished lately at Beechwortli
(Vic.) one Charles Phillips, said to have been the
heaviest man in Australia. When Charles was
in normal health he weighed about 30 stone ; hut
during a recent illness he shed much of his bulk,
and dropped into a mere shadow of about 20
stone. His plumpness was the reason why he
dropped his job as a blacksmith some years ago ;
it interfered with his movements,/and; probablyy
with other people’s movements. Y
The Earl of Ranfurly, an ex-Governor of
Maoriland, has received “the honorary freedom
of the Company of Patten-makers,” London, in
recognition of the services rendered by him as
Governor at Wellington. It seems a curious re-
ward—to be made an honorary patten-maker.
Concerns like the patten-makers used to be called
“guilds.” Now they are described as “ livery
companies’’—presumably owing to the dis-
ordered state of the members’ innards through
over-eating at the Guildhall. There are 12
great livery companies—the mercers, grocers,
drapers (fancy being made an honorary draper 1),
fishmongers (the joy of being an honorary fish-
monger!), goldsmiths, skinners, merchant “ tayl-
ors,” haberdashers, salters, ironmongers, vintners
(or publicans) and clothworkers. These are, all
rich (the mercers have an income of £lll,OOO a
year, and the poorest lot of the 12—the
vintners’ crowd—has £11,000), and they are
all heavy feeders. Then .there are 66 inferior
livery companies, including bowyers, broderers,
fletchers, borners, pew’terers, tylers, and all man-
ner of sundries. Some of them are rich ; some
are deadly poor. The feltmakers, for instance,
seem to have no income at all, and the timplate-
workers’ li very company has £l9 a year. Some of
the companies are quite homeless, not even pos-
sessing halls of their own. The patten-makers,
who have taken Banfurlv to their bosom, have no
hall, they have only £ll6 a year for feeding pur-
poses, and don’t seem much of a crpwd. Pattens,
by the way, are clogs, so Ranfurly is now a sort
of Unpaid Clog.
TWO MEN IN A BOAT.
Mr. Deakiri made the announcement that Circum-
stances are causing his party “to pull in the same boat
with the Opposition for the first time."
About a Good Cornstalk
11. I. Jensen, D. Sc., one of the most promising
graduates of Sydney University Science School, has,taken
the £lOO prize for scientific research awarded annually
out of the funds bequeathed for the purpose by David
Syme, of Melbourne Age. Dr. Jensen has also enjoyed
for the past few years a lucrative fellowship endowed by
William Macleay for students of science who engage in
original research work. He has given his attention to
roeTcs —mostly N.S.W. rocks and Queensland rocks —and
has written 18 papers on the geological, niineralogical,
chemical and petrological attitude of the alkaline, vol-
canic, and igneous rocks of this rocky country. Not only
have these 18 papers gained him the £lOO Syme prize,
but he has now been gazetted as Assistant Chemist to the
Department Of Agriculture. In politics Jensen is an
advanced democrat; His contributions in the press always
cause a pain to his alma mater.
WILL DYSON, the black-and-white artist, who is
about to exhibit a collection of his,drawing's in
Melbourne prior to his departurel for Atikefica.
“ Itan’s”' recollections ,of some be-women :
Maoriland has been as’tomshed-at the doings-oftrts Amy
Bock, bat Amy’s career as a .man was bfief.: Her record’
is nothing compared with that of a Bendigo masquerad,e'r
of the ’seventies. Ellen Treymaye (alias Edward de Lacy
Evans) for years worked, as a miner, wood-carter and axe-..
hand. Legeiid has it that she was married three times
and none of her “ wives”gjtve her away*.! Her'sex was
discovered after she became insane.. She was committed
in male clo’to Kew Asylum,- the authorities, of which
were commanded “jto keep.the'body of Edward Evans in
safe custody.” When the truth-burst- fo'rth like the sun
from behind a cloud, the point.wasraised that the Ki w
medicoes had no, power to detain a woman on a man's
warrant, so she wasisent. to Bendigo Hospital for’.treat-
ment. Later on showmen engaged Wjr, and she did; well
for a time, but it is generally supposed that .Ellen' ended
her days at the Melbourne Immigrants’. Home., Twenty,
years, later Jack Jorgbnsen, farm hand, 1 bullock-driver,
mill-worker, and a member of the'Mounted Rifles,lived
about Bendigo in a harmless sort of wav, At hfs death
he was. found to be a she, She was reckoned a good,
hard-working volunteer,, and.'a daring, rider. Once some
navvies tried to rush the canteen,’ and the lady fought in
the front rank of the defenders and >saved the Govern-
ment's good liquor from being laid waiste. In'.her case
there was reason for the disguise-.--At;,the age of 16 she •
ha'd .been kicked' in the face by. a horse and greatly dis-
figured. . Disfigurement,is an accident—hr an incident —
in the case ofa.man, but it isa.-tragedy for a woman, and
“ Jack, Jorgensen ” oia’de the best of a bad case by turning
man. And then there was the case of Bill-Marion Edwards,
but’ nothing very:interesting is known about Bilarion.
The Bulletin’s “ Oldest Inhabitant ”- -
thrft contributor who has so much curious inform-
ation about dead and gone pubs'nr.d people and
churches and graves and ecclesias-
tics, and who writes about the gaol-
floggers of the convict days, 'and*
knows the quaint, upside-down
doings of the ’4o's and ’so’s of last
century.;, a.nd can tell about the old
residents’ marriages and their.land-
jobs and their ghosts, and the
drunks that took place at their
burials, and about the women they
wedded, and the women they
should havewedded .but did-n’t, and
about their lies,' swindles, gold-
steals, bushrangings, terms in'gaol,
piracies', wild; cats v horrors, fan tods,
jim-jams, brass. money, explora-
tions, hogsi dogs, devils, and sun-
dries—grows-father ancient these
times. He turned into the seventies
at his last,. birthday, which - hap-
pened early in the month, but he is
still vigorous. He has been con-
tributing to The Bulletin for 20
years, and hopes to keep on doing
it for 20 more. The Bulletin
hopes so also, for in the matter of
supplying information about the father of all old
pubs there is no other man in Australia like him.
A time-defiant old cleric is .'Re,v. Dr. Hay,
who is Moderator at the Scotchbyterian Assembly
sitting now at Rockhampton (Q.). He will shortly
complete his 80th year on earth and his 50th as
spiritmil shepherd. He is one of the few mem-
bers of his profession who are liable to meet at the
baptismal font, any day of the week, babies whose
grandparents they doused in earlier years.
From an old Maorilander :
A good bit of stuff, physically and mentally sound
almost to the last., was I). M. Luckie, who died at Welling-
ton on May 0, aged five months short of 82 years. He
was. a native of Montrose in Scotland, where they grow'
people of his sort. He began life as a mercantile clerk
(his father was a merchant), then became law clerk and
assistant-assessor under the Property Tax Acts. While
writing for the Scotch country press he acquired aspirai-
tions, and after reporting and sub-editing on some
Scottish provincial papers he went to Maoriland in' j'B63
to take a share in and edit the Nelson Colonist. Editors
were big guns in those days, and Luckie found his way
to Parliament as member for Nelson City. Then the late
Vogel (“ wizard of finance,” and incidentally a most in-
veterate borrower) made Luckie editor of the Auckland
Southern Cross (now the Maoriland Herald). In 1878
he left the Herald to edit the Wellington Post, anji next
year he/threw up; journalism to take the Commissioner-
ship of that eminently successful monument of State
Socialism, the State Life Insurance . Department. Ten
years later he . gave up the- chief place and
became Deputy Commissioner,, a .position he held
till last July.- He must have been pretty well
the most ,■ancient party in the t/ivil Service. ,It is
alleged that on very busy days lie used to be Com-
pelled to sign his name as many as’four times, but when
lie kicked at the strenuous life and' refused to work over-
time without pay, the authorities made things easier by
getting his signature lithographed; Anyhow, he was.a
fine specimen and a most interesting man. For 3Lyears
he was a member of the Royal Statistical Society of.
London. Apropos of • present-day. discussions, Luckie
worked off a good thing while editing the Southern
Cross. Then, as now, the local defences were grossly in-
efficient and inadequate, while the cheering for the good,
old Motherland was just as loud as it is to-day. Luckie
wrote an elaborate account of the descent upon Auckland
of a' Russian frigate, which promptly seized the banks
and tobk the Mayor and other leading citizens as
hostages. The article attracted attention mainly because
it suggested risk to the Mayor and the leading citizens.
As the result, some spasmodic attempt was made to oil
the guns, or something like that. But Maoriland re-
covered from that scare, and will probably never really
wake up until it sees a swarm of armed enemies leaping
ashore at Whangarei or Akaroa or Island Bay. These and
other parts of the coast are altogether undefended, and
are likely to be while Joe Ward is Premier and is allowed
to fool about with Dreadnought “ gifts,” and to delude
an inquiring public with the assurance that the destinies
of these lands will he decided in the English Channel.
Which, to get back to the point, suggests that the Maori-
land press to-day could do with one or two editors who
would raise a scare and cease, if only for five minutes,
shouting “ Hooray ! ”
Montagu Scott, the well-known animal
painter —he took to that branch of art in his
middle age—died at Randwick (N.S.W.) last
Saturday, aged 74 years. Though he made horses
a study he had some portraits to his credit,
notably one of the eminently uninteresting Duke
of Edinburgh, which hangs in the vestibule of
Sydney Town Hall. Also he toiled for The Bul-
letin in earlier days, and did much good work.
'He was (twice married, and leaves a son and two
married daughters. In his time he was a fairly
good amateur act’dr.
About fche dreariest-job 'extant would ap-
pear to be that: pf ex- or levanting President of a
South Americjifh State. Castro, the reject of
Venezuela,.- sea“;-aihd there he has to stay
.owing to'the refusal of AtAky civilised Power to
allow him to land. The only plate that hankers
for him. is Venezuela. But there are disadvan-
tages about Venezuela from his viewpoint. Thus
a current issue of London Daily Mail prints
•this: —. . ■;
If Senor Castro should proceed to Carupano (Vene-
zuela); he will find in: charge of the port General Acosta,
(who spent eight /ye,ark in chains in the Maracaibo dun-
geons at his orders. General Acosta is thirsting- for
"•revenge. ’ e;
And Castro’s? trouble is that be stands to .find
an Acosta at pretty well every port of his Home-
•fand. V ; ; / ;
PRIOR TO THE BALLOT, B.C.
Last night the Prime Minister (Mr. Fisher) addressed
an enormous gathering in St. Stephen’s Church, at the
invitation of the Presbyterian General Assembly, upon
the subject of “ The Church and Labor.” As Mr. Fisher
walked up the aisle of the church he was greeted with
loud applause. The applause was renewed when he
mounted the dais, and it was again renewed and pro-
longed when he sat down. —Daily Paper.
liev. Ronald Maclntyre moved that the Assembly ex-
press its cordial thanks to Mr. Fisher and to Mr. Cuth-
bert Brown for their very interesting and helpful
addresses ; and record its deep interest in the speedy and
rightful and just settlement of the social problem.—
Daily Paper.
And Joab said : “ If the Syrians are too strong for me,
then thou shalt help me ; but if the children of Ammon
are too strong for thee, then I will help thee.”— Scripture.
THE MAN WHO BUILT THE STATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Central Railway Station.— Brief extract from long
and excited letter written by E. W. Owe'Sullivan.
“ Who is this loud and frenzied man
Whose voice disturbs far Turkestan,
And scares the Kirghiz nation ?
Is he some leader Heaven-sent,
Who raised a splendid monument
Of useful legislation ?”
Thus speaks the startled citizen,
But lo ! the Builder grabs his pen
And writes, with indignation :
“ Be silent all, ’neath pain of ban
I am the vast Owe’Sullivan,
The Man who built the Station !
“ Behold the pillars of mine Owe —
I am the Architect of Woe —
’Twas my glad occupation
To float the fatal 1.0. U.
Which binds unto the distant Jew
This young, ungrateful nation !
I who have raised these pyramids
Of Public Debt with borrowed quids,
Am hailed with execration !
Alas for works of mortal man—
They curse the great Owe’Sullivan
The Man who built the Station.
“ I spent vast heaps of borrowed pelf,
’Tis true —but, lo ! here’s Mister Selfe,
Who states with animation
That I a Benefactor am, ,
Deserving cataracts of jam
Instead of castigation !
How dare the low Contributor
Arise with disrespectful roar
Of vain tergiversation ?
All silent let the critics be—■
His name shall live in historee—
The Man who built the Station !
“ Who glibly prates of Wvnyard Square—
Of distant Quay, or otherwhere
To suit the population ?
What! pull my splendid station down,
To save the folk of Sydney town
Odd miles of ambulation ?
I who have raised this edifice
- Of I. O.U.’s arise and hiss
In tones of condemnation ;
Yea, Heaven’s wrath shall surely fall
On him who has the dreadful gall
To touch my sacred Station !
When smaller men have passed away,
And lie forgotten’neath the clay,
The theme of conversation
These works of mine shall surely be- -
With bated breath, Posterity
Shall kneel in adoration !
’Tis yours to pay the interest
On these, my works of genius blest —
Have done with agitation !
Pet no man dare to shift a brick —
On Redfern’s edge there let it stick—
My ‘ Central ’ Railway Station ! ”
Herewith a gentle prophecy—
When the great Owe hath ceased to be,
Then, moist with perspiration,
His soul from this ungrateful shore
Will flap unto St. Peter’s door
, To claim his approbation !
And when St. Pete descants on sin,
He’ll yell: “ Why, hang it, let me in !
Just cease your blatheration !
Think you that I’m a Common Man?—
1 am the huge Owe’Sullivan —
The Man who built tub STATION ! ”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
THE BALLAD OF MIL COOK!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Deakin had arr.oga.ted to himself the title of Liberal.
So far as tlie speaker knew,the party with which be was
'associated had.called itself the Liberal-party for 20 years
qr more, ,and' he Had no intention of surrendering claim to
that good', old progressive title. (Hear, hear.) His
’enemies hkd no right to lahel'him in any other way ! ! !
Daily paper.
I’m very wil'd indeed—
Just see how black I look !
I'm not'slow, fa! G. Reid,
! I’m fife; important Cook, v
I do not iipitate
Or take leaves from Reid’s Book ;
“ Yes-No! ”he Used to state
“ No-Yes ! ” says Joseph Cook;,.
Our enemies are thieves !
Our dear,, old name .they shook —
A thing’that sorely grieves
Your humble Joseph’ Cook. ...
We’re fighting for it now —-
We’ll win by hook or crook—
r.f 'Of course, I can’t sav how
1 i JustHejive that unto Cook.
/ Though Alfred Deakin crows,
Like some wild barndoor ebook
About his “Lib'erAl ” pose,
His doom is fiked Gbok
- Jokook will,save each State —
Jpkook Will bring to book
TheTjabofites who’prate—
A, The Liberals who- shook
His'-pteqtige(; just,you wait!
Houp-la ! • Sef me gyrate
i Now ! Have another look—
' TbereJ-.ainJel simply great f
. >lnst watcH’.your Joseph Cook.
n.s.w.
ALPHONSE PARBLEP.


m
t=
r\
3
i
\
La
sn
o o
0 o
Fa
□
EE
mz
B
BQ
6
Hi
D
B
1=
1=
a
3
3
3
a
3i
e
'Ban— JonjAO-—.


PRIOR TO REMOVAL TO
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margarct Struct.
Walter Bradley & 80.
are now disposing of their
Magfn ficent Stock Furniture,
Well-Made Upholstered Goods,
Water Colors, Bronzes, China,
Statuary and Art Treasures.
BARGAIN PRICES TO CLEAR.
CAREFULLY PACKED FOR COUNTRY.
‘ Our politicians have their fling,
Of course,” said Dismal Dan,
‘But can’t agree on anything,
Beshrew me if they can ! ”
Said Cheerful Charles, “You’ve got the blues,
But needn’t make things bluer!
Th“y all agree to take their screws
And Woods’ Peppermint Cure.”*
A succession of colds or a protracted cold
is almost certain to end in chronic catarrh, from
which few persons ever wholly recover. Give
every cold the attention it deserves and you may
avoid this disagreeable disease. How can you
cure a cold ? Why not try Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy ? It is highly recommended.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “ peaceful ” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “ The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Not Strong
Like other Girls.
The health, beauty and
welfare of every growing girl
depends upon the richness and
regularity of her blood. The
difference between a state of
bloodlessness and healthy
activity in developing girls
means all the difference in later
life between healthy woman-
hood and a chronic state of
misery. To growing girls Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are a
positive blessing. Everything
is right and natural when they
are taken. Here is a case of
a weak, delicate Australian
girl that they made strong
and healthy.
/" , 'Vrj\ i-
-4 A %
*~r > »
r*\
\v
m g
4% i
'*l'
f '’’
“My daughter
ITellie got very run
down at thirteen,”
said Mrs. Paul R.
Bartsch, 150
Clancy St., Boul-
der City.“ She
was ailing for
more than six
months and seem-
ed to be out grow-
ing her strength.
She didn’t fancy
her food. All her
blood seemed to
be draining away,
and her lips and
gums were quite
white. She had no
strength and no
energy. She was
generally low
spirited and mopy.
She was very ner-
vous and excitable
over practically
nothing. A neigh-
bour told me how
much good Dr.
Williams’ Pink
Pills had done her.
We got some and
soon noticed that
Nellie was looking
better The sal-
low look went out
of her face and her
appetite was much
better. After a
few boxes she
was brisk and
well.”
box, 6 boxes 1 ss. 3d. and if
you are pestered by the shop-
man who wants to sell some
substitute of his own they will
be sent post free by the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of
Australasia Ltd. Sydney.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne. SY.PIVEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THEIR RETICENCE.
COOK: “ Good day! ”
DEAKIN: “Good day!”
COOK: “Good-bye!”
DEAKIN: “ Good-bye! ”
PRESS: “ Well, I’m! I’ve waited six months
and that's all I can yet out of them.”
Probably N.S. W. Premier Wade, going
about things in his usual large-footed way, won’t
know enough to let Holland out of gaol before the
State elections. Yet any wise Premier would
turn him loose at once. Holland belongs to the
little crowd of fighting Radicals who regard the
Labor party in Parliament as so slow as to be
almost dead, and so antiquated as to be almost
Tory. Holland would just as soon fight a Labor
candidate as a Tory one—perhaps sooner. He
got 74G votes at Darling Harbor last election, and
the advertisement he has received would very
probably bring him more next time. If Wade
doesn’t let Holland and his mates out so that they
may split the Labor vote next year, he isn’t the
brilliant tactician his friends consider him.
Following Sydney’s example,
Melbourne University talks of found-
ing a chair of Military Science, at a
first cost of £25,000, and the Federal
and State Governments are to be
asked to assist. Doubtless this country
could do with a lot more military
knowledge than it possesses, but the
idea is a horrible example of the art of
beginning at the wrong end. When
Australia has its big guns ready, a
rifle available for every man who can
use one, an adequate supply of am-
munition for each rifle and gun, and
every capable citizen trained to the
use of arms; when it has got its
trans-continental railways built, its
railway gauges assimilated, and its
transport arrangements made effective,
it may have money and time to spend
on the discussion of the more abstruse
points of military science. But what
is the use of hiring a costly expert to
lecture on the great art of forming a
hollow square when we have only the
hollow—not the square ?
Said the man who fought through
the Boer war, now tea-tasting in For-
mosa :
Here’s one episode :
The Japanese taxed the Formosans till they couldn’t
stand. Then they clapped 49 into gaol.
Gaol expenses went up ; and the authorities in Tokio
talked.
So the gentle kindly Jap rose up one glowing dawn and
beheaded 49 poor over-taxed heathen.
And that wasn’t 20 or 50 years ago. It happened in
September, 1908.
The most refreshing language which The
Bulletin has met with this year is that in which
Federal Minister Mahon has addressed the State
Premiers re their cheeky and unauthorised interfer-
ence in Commonwealth affairs. Mahon first spoke
to them gently with a brick. Finding that didn’t
effect a cure, he spoke firmly with an axe. What
he will speak with next the Lord only knows.
“ Yass ” writes :
You are wrong in saying that the N.S.W. Government
never attempted to make its amazing Federal capital site
a show place. Tourists were conveyed over the Yassberra
territory soon after it was selected as the Federal capital
site. The first excursion was well advertised and patron-
ised. But the tourists returned home and said mean
things about the Yassberra district; and theircomplaints
were spread far and wide, so that the second trip was a
failure. A couple more attempts were made to gain
popularity for Yassberra by the excursion racket, and
then the N.S.W. Tourist Bureau gave it up as a bad job.
Latterly no one has visited Yassberra for pleasure, and
under normal conditions no one is likely to.
The yarn about the capital-scaring results
of a “predatory Labor Ministry” grows
very wan and pale and thin these days. On Prime
Minister Fisher’s platform at Orange last week
were Colonel Lassetter and Messrs. Arthur and
Fred Lassetter, proprietors of the great
George-street (Sydney) _ shop. Near them
sat M. F. Dalton, station-owner and senior
partner in the biggest general store business in
Orange. In this connection it may be noted that
Meagher and Co., importers, and owners of
extensive general stores in every town of import-
ance in the west of N.S.W., received a request
from one of the Anti-Socialist bodies recently to
allow their names to be enrolled as members.
Meagher and Co. replied tha't this was impractic-
able, as they belonged to the P.L.L.
The craving for a vestige of earth on which
to grow something is seemingly as deplorable and
unsated in South Australia as it is in Vic-
toria. La.tely the South Australian Govern-
ment threw open for selection under per-
petual lease an area of 1927 acres near Murray
Bridge. This mere back-yard of an allot-
ment was divided, possibly with the assist-
ance of a microscope, into 37 blocks, and
there were over 1000 applications for them.
One continent, which would comfortably ac-
commodate at least two caterpillars, was
desired by 76 applicants; another had 66
hungry for it; and the least popular of the
collection was beloved of about 14 or 15.
Here, as usual, there were too many candi-
dates for too few allotments; whereas it
ought to be too many allotments for too
few candidates; so that, instead of finding
land for the people, the Government might
go about finding people for the land.
Another avenue for “ Federal inter-
ference” has been found. Since Victoria
passed its Gold Buyers Act, most of the
stolen metal has been sold in the adjacent
States. One Bendigo man is said to have
disposed of £lB,OOO worth of dubious gold
in Sydney alone during the past year. At
Sydney Mint the person who sends in gold,
for coinage may say where he got it from, or
he may not, and mostly he keeps stony silence.
As N.S.W. won’t move in the matter, Victoria
wants a Federal law, and is clamoring for further
encroachment upon State Frights.
Alfred Deakin did one of his strange
picturesque wobbles last week. He drifted a
certain length towards a coalition with Cook, and
then intimated that if the coalition came off he
wouldn’t take office, but would be a mere private
member. Next he went away to the seaside,
while Senator Best, Bigjohn Forrest and Joseph
Cook, collected together in a room at the Australia
Hotel, struggled with the details of the pro-
posed combination. Right above them was the
apartment of William Lyne, who repudiates the
proposed combine and all its works, and how Corn
Bill restrained himself from boring a hole in his
floor and emptyingtlie water jug on the conspiracy
below is a vast mystery.
The pro-nigger, cheap-labor crowd was
strongly in evidence at the Mel bourne gaud Mayor’s
quarterly luncheon a few days ago. Prime
Minister Fisher was present ; and, in replying to
a toast, dwelt upon the conditions of life in the
northern portion of Australia. At once there
was, according to the press reports, “ironical
laughter,” “interruption,” “dissent,” and so on.
Yet, all the while, Fisher was only quoting
Statistician Kriibbs, so that the rowdy hoodlums
who heckled him were bumping their addled heads
against the brick wall of facts. Once Fisher
offered to sit down, but some of the fairer-minded
portion of the audience urged him to keep going.
Andrew would be well advised to leave gaud
Mayor’s luncheons severely alone in future.
The importing people who attend them are past
all hope ; and if left alone there is at least a chance
that they may drink themselves to death, or get
choked with a turkey bone.
NEVER SAID A TRUER WORD!
The borrowed money spent by the States of Australia
has proved to be one of the most magnificent investments
the world has known.— Melbourne Argus.
COHEN ( enthusiastically): “ O it HAS! It HAS!”
The Cumberland (N.S.W.) orchardists,
who triumphantly return an Anti-Socialist mem-
ber to the State Legislature, waited on Sydney’s
Mayor last week to propose :
(1) That the State should sell all fruit.
(2) That the State should standardise the fruit cases.
(3) That the State should charge next to nothing.
(4) That the State should start a jam factory.
(5) That the State should catch the fruit flies.
And the Mayor, who is also Anti-Socialist,
approved of all these ideas, and agreed to lend a
hand.
Speaking in Sydney under the auspices of
that female organisation which exists chiefly to pro-
mulgate lies about the Democratic party, Joe Cook
revealed himself in a curiously heathen aspect.
Reviewing the position, he stated that the present
system of party government is workable only as
long as Parliament's divided into two parties—no
more, no less. Immediately more than two
parties appear, said Cook, the machine of State
becomes inefficient and practically useless. And
here it was that Cook revealed himself. He did
not propose that the method should be altered to
suit the needs of the Australian people, or that
the machine should be made efficient by the
election of the Ministry fora fixed period. Cook’s
idea of a remedy is coalition, which means that 6
about one-third of the members of the House of
Representatives should turn liars and hypocrites,
vote against their consciences and tfyeir election
pledges, and thereby destroy all faith in election
pledges and bring themselves into contempt—all
to preserve the antiquated and discredited party
system. For an alleged Christian and gentleman,
Joe Cook has some weird ideas of reform.
A man from Adelong (N.S.W.) is making
a big noise over a very ordinary matter. In 1905
the Adelong Progress Association asked the Lands
Department to throw open a reserve of 2000 acres
of land. The Lands Department agreed with
commendable alacrity. Immediately the reserve
was revoked an adjacent squatting firm applied
for a lease of the area. The Progress people
argued the matter for three days before the local
Land Board in 1906, and blew the squatters out.
The squatting firm then applied to exchange this
2000 acres for some land of its own. Again the
Progress Association took up the matter, and
wrangled with the Land Board for four days in
1907. Again it won, and the Board refused the
exchange, and recommended the Government to
value the land at 325. 6d. an acre, and put it up
for gamble at the ballot-box. Since then nothing
has been heard of the matter. The Progress
Association has apparently died of old age, and
the surrounding squatters haven’t thought of any
new' dodge. The local cookies, who value the land
at £2 an acre, are still waiting to put their marbles
in. Therefore the Adelong man is growling.
There are some very dissatisfied people in this
world.
Joseph Cook is a most non-committal man.
For instance, this is Cook’s latest on the Northern
Territory question :
The vast Australian solitudes represent a sphinx whose
riddle we must read. We must people the country, or
let others do so, as undoubtedly they will. The Northern
Territory should be taken over on terms fair to the Com-
monwealth, to South Australia, and to the new State
which will have to be created.
It is all very beautiful and clap-trappy and vague.
To come to business —what are fair terms accord-
ing to Cook’s idea ? What terms will he offer if
he is made Prime Minister ? Does he approve of
the Deakin-Price agreement or doesn’t he ? That
is business; the other is only a dog howling
beautifully in the middle of the night.
* “ Billy T.” writes :
Though aware of the Tory’s views in favor of a Black
North, I was poorly prepared for the ebullition of feeling
on the part of Property and Vested Interests at the Mel-
bourne Mayor’s lunch party the other day, when Prime
Minister Fisher spoke of the success achieved by the
whites in the sub-tropics. If Fisher had deliberately
insulted the memory of the sainted mother of Fat, jthe
Tory brigade could not have displayed more heat and
bitterness. The bare idea of a white man’s white children
surviving in the Far North provoked an outburst of spleen
that threatened to lay waste the mayoral feed, and the
indignant brigade of corpulent capitalists barked at the
speaker for a minute or two, like hungry dogs round a
sick sheep. If Fisher had stated that every white
child in North Queensland and the Territory had died a
miserable and, lingering death, the assembled Private
Enterprisers would probably have breathed a thanksgiving
to Heaven over the corporation oj'sters.
ADMIRALS ALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For purposes of Australian defence, the projected
flotilla of destroyers is an excellent, idea.— Admiral Poore.
I heartily support the proposal to establish a flotilla of
destroyers, which is one of the best means of Australian
defence which could be devised. — Admiral Bosanquet.
. . . And to provide for Australia adequate coastal de-
fence by means of forts and torpedo boats.— British
Admiralty.
If yoq want to know whether I favor the establishment
of an Australian navy, I may say, without hesitation, that
I do.— Governor-General Dudley.
Say, why haven’t you guys got a fleet of your own ?
Sundry American Officers in August last.
Mr. Reid observed that the battle for naval supremacy
would be fought in the English Channel or the North Sea.
If it were going to be fought somewhere about YVoolloo-
mooloo Bay a torpedo flotilla would be of some use.
The proposal of the Federal Government to build
destroyers was reviewed with great disfavor by the
speakers. Alderman Ross declared it was ridiculous.
Mr. Oakes said a more silly statement or a more unsound
judgment had never been made than that we could de-
fend Australia ourselves. Mr. Kelly, M.H.R., put it
thus:—“Whatever else Mr. Fisher’s proposals may do,
they cannot guarantee to Australia that right of export
upon which the prosperity of Australia is based.”—Pad-
dington Deadhorse Meeting.
Revealed is Nelson as a fraud ;
The Frobishers and Hawltes and Drakes,
Whom once we hastened to applaud,
To-day we find were simply fakes ;
We’ve naval experts ten degrees
Anead of any form they showed,
Who braved the battle and the breeze
Down Paddington, in Glenmore-Toad.
What right has Poore his views to air
On naval matters, when we’ve got
A bunch of experts deep and rare,
And ever willing on the spot?
If e’er the growing Gorman fleet
Should get the Empire in a fix,
We’ve Mister Oakes, of Oxford-street,
Who cleans your watch for three-and-six.
That other chap Bosanquet, too,
Chips in on things he doesn’t know ;
He thought he’d knock us all askew,..
But Paddington is not too slow.
If foemen our undoing plan,
Thank God, another expert’s there
In Mister Ross, the alderman,
Who p’raps some day will be a mayor.
So if the Kaiser Bill afar
Should level threats at life and limb,
We’ve Willy Kelly, M.H.R.,
Who’s just the boy to deal with him.
But if, through all, the foe beset,
A final expert we can try
In Reid, who, now his dog is wet,
Intends to keep his powder dry.
X.S.W.
JASON.
RISE, UTTER ANTI-SOSH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Even if the policy which Mr. Deakin announces were a
special possession of his own—which it is not—it would
have no prospect of adoption so long as it rertiains the
possession of 15 members, only in a House of 75. . . .
With respect to much of the policy which Mr. Deakin
outlines in very general terms, there is no reason why it
should not secure the adhesion of all opponents of the
Labor policy.— Argus, S/Sfo9.
There is a policy, good in parts—you know those parts,
of course ?
Which speaks to some Australian hearts, and makes some
speakers hoarse ;
And—here the hot tear starts !
That platform’s ours— in parts !
And though some planks are dashed dog-poor, and some
not worth a curse,
Though it is not the best—why, sure, there is one plat-
form worse !
There is a patriot—yes, or two ; or maybe more than
that,
Who knows exactly what to do, and what’s the proper
bat .
To drive Australia’s’bus—
For instance, there is Us !
Ours is the crowd that understands the way we should
progress.
Observe this bunch of willing hands, grown fat in idle-
ness !
Australia calls once more for men, in this her hour of
need,
To see her through the day? Well, then— we know, of
course, the speed
To make her chariot go.
So, what price Us and Co.?
We do not flinch at jeer or gibe, nor mind who foots the
bill
If there's a smash. Our faithful tribe waits on Australia
still !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


SUITS
To Measure
CUT, FIT fr FINISH
GUARANTEED
largest flange ofJuitings
at 3 Guineas toseiectjrom
in Australasia.
BUCKLEY & NUUK L TD
BOURKE ST, MELBOURNE.
BOOMERANG
.AWaUBEB
If GRAND PRIX
ATT TJHLE
FRANCO -BRITISH EXHIBITION
- EDUCATION -
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence CsUss
Gan Train You —By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA T/ONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS .
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams. :
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 Collins Street, Melbourne ; Union Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney ; 172 Queen Street, Brisbane ;
BrooKman’s Chambers, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
All Athletes
Use
BOSISTO’S
..aNV’ap
XOMHVd m
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
.
„
m
X
'
I®
H
dR£3
'•... .
msm
:XMXy
|§Slj |
'
•282
'&•& Si
"
I
l • •,, .v. -'
L
SH' ,\.’ *,•"* "■'l < l w’ ‘
*xm
I*. ’■•S : - J
•V*
;
ts
K«i
J
|L
■ ■ ■■■■',
m
■ ■
m
■c
_ ,::
* x
%
.
mssmm
£l)?W
M'-xJMfm
yyy. ' . ;
8! f I
V'fegMgKl
;.X S;-\.; : , ; SS .
8
ay
,**>■-*
IBosisto's “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil, I
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains, I
L Bruises,Wounds, Goughs, Colds, Bronchitis I


0
O
D
D
xr
u
Wc chemists like good tea
as much as we dislike taking
physic—tea’s a mild harmless
drink, that livens one up as
nothing else will —but, mind you,
there are teas and teas, with as
much difference between them
as in chalk and cheese. Of
course pure tea is the best,
and as Robur is the purest
tea V know, 1 always go for it.
Many of my friends use the
No. 2 Grade they say it is
good enough for anybody
but 1 must say 1 like the No. 1
Grade myself—l’m a man that
believes in the best of every-
thing for inside.
The Chemist
Charles HeidsiecU
REIMS
fS IU >
☆ %
FINEST EXTRA Q
EXTRA DRV
"SILVASHEEN" Satin
“ SHvasheen,” of glorious lustre arid sheen, silky to the
touch, and fascinating to the eye. Finish is guaranteed
permanent. In place of genuine satin for all linings, as
well as fancyvvork, “ Silvasheen ” is beyond compare.
LOOK FOR THE NAME.
No matter what you are told, and no matter who tells
it, there is no genuine “ SHvasheen” unless it bears the
“Silvasheen” name printed on the selvedge. If your
draper hasn’t “Silvasheen” with the name on the
selvedge, don’t be talked into buying a substitute, or you
will be sorry. For your own safety and satisfaction,
insist on the genuine “Silvasheen,” with the name
“ Silvasheen ” stamped along the edge.
Try it in Your New Gown.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 18, 1909.
My Drat? A hint,—
Lady Dudley and her offspring have been
making resolute efforts to catch sharks in Sydney
Harbor. The Government steam yacht Premier
never takes a vice-regal party out nowadays with-
out sufficient shark-snaring tackle to render five
or six score of submarine homes miserable. So
far the luck has been indifferent. Her Ex. is
alleged to be a practised salmon-fisherwoman ;
but between the playing of a 16lb. salmon and the
doing to death of a 16ft. shark there are points of
difference. A salmon expires gracefully, and in
death it is as beautiful as it was in life. The final
struggles of a shark are ungentlemanly in their
violence.
Small boy Dudley—l think his name is
Roderick—was initiated into the Mosman boy
scouts on Saturday afternoon. The Mosman corps,
or devastating horde, or battalion, or whatever it is
called, is the troop de luxe , and it marched to
Government House to pick up the honorable
infant. It is headed by one Charlie Hope, who
started Baden Powell’s idea in Australia. The
Hopeful scout holds the Union Jack presented by
Mrs. Dreadnought Dixson. I don’t know exactly
what a scout is, but I should think he must be
something like the famous Chevy Slyme, who
was always just round the corner; consequently
the enemy won’t know he is there till it falls over
him, and then it will be too late, for the scout will
slay that enemy in cold blood.
“No day without a deed to crown it.” as some
one (I forget which one) has it. Last week
Countess Dudley crowned Tuesday with a kindly
deed. She put in two hours or so at the Hospice
for the Dying at Dariinghurst. In the language
of diplomacy the Lady “signified her intention”
not many hours previous to paying the visit, so
the Main Nun had only time to sufnmon by
’phone a few interested workers for the Hospice
to hurry along and help receive the visitor. It
was only fair that a group o'f the absolutely quick
should leaven the company of the certainly dying.
Main Nun Mother Cecilia was reinforced by Mrs.
J. C. Williamson, Mrs. Deery, Mrs. John Barlow,
Mrs. Alfred McElhone, Mrs. Beck and the Rev.
Mr. Beck, Mrs. (Dr.) Kearney, and Dr. O’Haran,
representing Cardinal Moran. Her Ex., carry-
ing an armful of flowers, and followed
by some of the reinforcements looking like
I’iorodoraites with more flowers, went from
cot to cot, speaking to each doomed but cheerful
patient and giving flowers as she spoke. She
learned that the hospice is unsectarian and un-
subsidised by Government, and as she consumed
a small afternoon tea the visitor spoke words of
sympathy for the lonely charity.
Sydney is a small place, and just now it is very
dull. The inhabitants of a small, dull place are
easily interested, and at present long-haired
Sydney casts a kindly eye on the brown-clad
Norland nurse whom Lady Dudley brought with
her as guardian to the Honorable infant, her
youngest daughter, Patricia Ward. The brown-
clad nurse is confessedly young and pretty, the
bantling is a beauty, with a pale face and dark
eyes, and a brown-coated bull terrier—really,
I am not sure of his breed. Perhaps he’s only
just plain dog. Anyhow, he is brown all over,
like the nurse’s uniform, and solemn-faced, and
he accompanies nurse and child in the brougham
when they take their daily drive abroad.
Concerning beautiful children : Never before
did I see so many gathered on one green lawn
under one pateh of blue sky as I saw last week at
Riviere College (Woollahra) “Midsummer Night’s
Dream” garden party. There were girls of 15 or 16
years and there were kindergarteners who doddered
under the burden of years. Someone must
have shaken a peach tree, as the late George
Lauri used to say when he gazed upon a group of
extra good-lookers. Peaches are out, but a fully-
laden tree of ripe pomegranates grew close to the
lawn, and verses from the Song of Solomon
would come to mind, and quite aptly. The
College’s five visiting masters played the charac-
ters in the Interlude, the “rude mechanicals,”
Snug, Bottom, Snout, Starveling, and Flute, in a
fashion that made the scores of fond parents,
gathered to watch the pastoral, assert that “it
was never better done on the stage.” If they
didn’t assert so much, they looked it. The
pretty pupils aforementioned were the horde of
fairies. Mr. Norton Russell, doubled up behind a
screen of green, growing plants, acted as stage
(or lawn) manager and prompter. Miss Meares,
the Principal of the College, frocked in the latest,
stood within her gates, and shook the hand of the
numerous parent and visitor.
In Sybil, the, school organ of Riviere, it is
interesting to note the “ congratulations ” of the
editress to certain old girls. The ex-Riviere
pupils would seem to marry- very soon after they
are ex. Quite a lot of them have orange-blossom
congratulations fired at them by Sybil. Another
bunch are rejoiced with at the acnievement of
infants. Then three have started for a world’s
tour, another group has passed this or that exam,
—one as a nurse and another as the winner of the
George Allen scholarship for mathematics, while
a third carried off the Swimming Championship
at the All Schools’ Swimming Carnival.
Rumor of Miss Rawson’s engagement is on the
wing. When she was here rumor was often en-
gaged in engaging her, generally to gentlemen in
holy orders. If the latest report be correct, and
if the man is a really good sort, Sydney will give
its consent.
The officers of the Powerful gave a dance to
their Sydney friends on Friday last. A propor-
tion of social “kuowns” materialised; also a
considerably larger proportion of “ unknowns.”
It takes an expert to tell the one class from
the other, as in no single feature—whether
of dress, looks or deportment—do they differ.
But the distinction is there all the same, and it is
mighty, and prevails to the extent that the
“knowns” from Rose Bay way refuse absolutely,
not to say arrogantly, to fraternise with the “ un-
knowns ” from Drummoyne or the Glebe. For
the mere female there is not much catch in going
to a warship hop. There are always many more
girls than men. It seems to be the etiquette in
the King’s Navy never to introduce a donah to a
fellow-officer. The consequence is that lone women
are to be seen leaning hopelessly against cannons
and sitting on boxes of explosives and things the
weary evening through, with never a masculine
shoulder to butt a way for them to where the food
and drink abide. The officers do those whom
they delight to honor well, but somewhat incon-
siderately.
The annual report of the Benevolent Society of
N.S.W. is before me, and I have been making a
desperate effort to untangle some of the figures.
(I now reside in the office where the “Wild Cat”
used to squall, so I try to be mathematical occa-
sionally.) On the back cover one large fact is
plainly stated without any confusing figure?
grouped round it. Here it is—and, if you-don’t
make up your mind to be extra charitable after
reading it, you must be more than economical: —
“In Humanity’s Cause! The Benevolent
Society of New South Wales has. 1500 Sick and
Helpless Poor dependent upon it every day.”
And these are prosperous days too ! The “Wild
Cat” meows to me that lots of companies are
making so much money that they have to work
overtime hiding the profits; and even then they
have to struggle hard not to pay more than 10 per
cpnt.—whatever that is. (Evidently, to pay more
than 10 per whatsitsname isn’t respectable, or
good form.) You have probably got your winter
furs by now, and are nicely fixed for the cold
weather that is coming along by-and-bye ; but the
poor, sick ones whom this society looks after will
need extra help when the wind races, down from
the mountains ; and you can help if you will.
Last year, 2041 women and 1225 children were
looked after. Just think of it ! An army.of 3266
helpless ones sheltering under one great institu-
tion in these times of peace and plenty. And yet
nurse women can find nothing better to do than
some teddy bears !
Mrs. Gilchrist, housekeeper at the Metrbpole,
and one of the most popular women in
Sydney, was killed in dreadful fashion last
week. For years she has bicycled every morning,
winter and summer, to Cavill’s Woolloomooloo
baths. On Friday, by some unexplainable acci-
dent, she toppled with her bicycle over the sea-
wall near the baths, and was killed instantly.
She was the most cheery and good-natured person
in the world, well known, and surpassingly well
liked by all. Cavill’s floating pontoon has been
surrounded by an atmosphere of tragedy of late.
The dreadful Dunmore fatality occurred within
easy hail of the spot where Mrs. Gilchrist met
her death.
Captain Arthur Dorrien Smith, D. 5.0.. is
going to marry a daughter of the novelist Phillips
Oppenheim. This quite uncalled-for piece of
information is handed you solely because such a
number of Australians met the man in S’Africa,
where our boys did a-warring go some years back,
and committed murder most fowl (I mean hen).
They may be glad to know that so worthy a mem-
ber of the house of Smith is about to quit single
wickedness. The warrior’s pa holds a lease of the
Scillv Islands—the old kingdom of Lyonesse—
where most of the narcissi supplied to the London
markets are grown.
Miss Lamotte, the legatee of the late Mr. Tom
Lawrv, is announced as having married, on April
17, a Mr. William Donald McCrae, of Glasgow.
Mr. Julius Caro, once of the well-known
auctioneering firm of Lawson and Caro, died at
his house. Pomeroy, Potts Point, last week. Mrs.
-Garo-and the three girls, a bunch of very
lookers, have been much in the bright public eye
of Sydney’s amusements and charitable works.
The eldest girl, who married Barrister Maclntyre,
is now a young widow.
The motor car as a means of getting fashionably
damaged has made appendicitis a back number.
Everyone who owns a motor has been at one time
or other emptied with more or less fury out of
it. To have a spill and to be fined for spurious
driving (I mean furious driving) gives you the
M.D., which means Mark of Distinction. The
latest well-known victim is Mrs. Allen Taylor,
who, with her consort, was thrown out of her
tooter whilst autoing in the Richmond River
district. A tyre blew out, the devil waggon skidded
and turned turtle, and the mayoral pair parted
company from the many-horse-power invention.
The mayoral luck was in, and no damage resulted
barring shock. Hence the Taylors are getting
the congratulatory telegram in large, quantity.
The rich and kindly Mrs. Hugh Dixson, of
Stratbfield, Sydney, has, it is printed, bred Lang-
shan capons which, at five months old, weigh
eighteen pounds each. No wonder Mrs. Dixson
joined the just-formed Optimist Club. An
optimist is a man or woman who can eat an
eighteen-pound chicken and still feel sanguine
that all will be well.
Talking of the Optimist Club, its founder. Mrs.
Curnow, widow of a one-time Rev. editor of
the S. M. Pl erat.d. has just lost (by sudden
death) her eldest son, who was manager for
Gollin and Co. Events of this weight test one’s
optimism.
The twenty-third annual ball of the Australian
Artillery will occur at Paddington Town Hall on
Friday evening. May 28. Messrs. G. H. Edmond-
son arid C. E. Campbell are lion, secretaries, and
Sergeant-Major A. J. Ballantine is hon. treasurer.
An exodus of prominent Sydney men occurs
this week. Dr. Herbert Marks, husband of the
fair dame who was Miss Pilcher, goes to London
via Japan on the Yawatu Maru. His health has
given way, and he has been imperatively ordered
to desist from, the serious job of throat-specialising
for six months at least. Dr. “ Willie ” McKay,
big surgeon and shining light or beacon of Lewi-
sham Hospital, accompanies him. The latter is
not ill ; in fact, he was never better in his life.
But he is about due for a holiday, and having torn
an incredible sum from the Melbourne “ books ”
at the last big race-meeting there, he feels he is in
all respects well justified in taking a month or six
off. A third voyager is Mr. Manson, architect
and keen motorist.
The Hugh Ward Comedy Co. appears to have
struck an advertising-idea that lays-out-the old-
fashioned, leading-lady’s lost diamonds stunt
utterly. Miss Grace Palotta mislaid a whole live
ayah in India recently. Mr. Ward “investi-
gated,” and, in the words of one of our daily news
sheets, <
arrived afc the conclusion that the ayah was the daughter
of a royal Indian house, who had fled from home, dis-
guised as an ayah, on account of some political intrigue
in which her family was concerned.
A feverish search for the strayed royalty; was
instituted, and Mr. Ward was enabled ultimately
to cable to Mr. Goldie, the co.’s agent at Singa-
pore, the glad news “ The has been 'kid-
napped, but recovered.” Despite Mr. Goldie s
efforts to keep the indiscretion of the co.’s
exalted employee dark, details leaked out, and
the South China Post “ published a two-column
report of the affair.” Frenzied at the thought of
what may happen to the Princess in Australia,
Mr. Ward has already dashed down the glaive of
defiance at the feet of our Customs officers, with
the intimation that should his royal charge be
regarded as a prohibited immigrant, he will
“give a £lOO bond for her.” The mime’s £lOO
will undoubtedly be required of him. On the
other hand, he won’t have to disburse a red cent
in kidnapping-investigation money. Nobody
would want to kidnap an avah in this country.
The men playing in “ Lucky Durham ” are, on
the whole, the most correctly attired set of
mummers I have yet seen banded together on any
stage in this village. A knowledgable friend
assures me that it is impossible to pick even a
semblance of a sartorial hole in the garb of Mr.
Lindsay. His morning coat is a work of art, and
the things which one does not mention appertain-
ing to him are “creations!” Well-nigh as im-
peccable, in this regard, is Mr. Deverell. Har-
court Beatty’s style is rather more flamboyant
than that of his colleagues. He has, by the way,
two curious habits that have always puzzled me :
(1) He displays a positive aversion to taking his
gloves off ; (2) he refuses to be separated from his
crush hat when he goes to a stage reception.
This actor has afternoon tea with his gloves on,
he writes cheques with >, his gloves on, and I
make no doubt consumes liis breakfast in the
same state. As to his affection for his hat at
evening parties, it is, so far as British parties are
concerned, an anachronism. Men of the bull-dog
breed have been yielding up their headgear and
coats to a minion in the hall of their enter-
tainer’s home for the past 30 years at least. I
tremble to think what would happen to a modern
man of fashion who attempted to dodge past the
servitor rightly entitled to take his (the man of
fashion’s) hat, without giving the latter into tem-
porary custody. What is certain is that he would
never reach the reception-room unassailed. In all
likelihood an action at common law would lie
against him. The custom of transporting the gibus
to the reception-room still obtains in French and
German bourgeois homes, but elsewhere it is like
Freetrade, the moa, the fashion of wearing a red
silk handkerchief in the evening vest, and the
Dreadnought movement—very, very dead.
, Melba arrives by the Mokoia on the and
lifts her voice (with full orchestra) at the Town
Hall on -Tune 1. Mr.".Southwell and Miss A.
Murphv, the songbird’s private secretary, are
looking after the great soprano’s business interests.
Miss Florence Menkmeyer is in Sydney, and
will give a concert next month. Her vocalism,
not her treatment of the-ivories, will challenge
attention on this occasion.
Miss Lena Maclachlan, the fluffy golden-haired
star of Jthe JMosm an_ Musical Societywnarried
recently a tourist Englishman, and the two are
off on a world-girdling trip. Bridegroom—Taylor
is he named—is one of a cotton mill family, and
gets cramp in his fingers counting his wealth.
As a wedding present to his bride each one of his
numerous brothers and sisters sent her £lOO. It’s
not always the “in-laws” behave so generously.
The Edwin Geaches, bride and ’groom, have set
up housekeeping at the Musgrave-street end of
Mosman. That little peninsula seems to have an
attraction for mummers and their managers. ,
A Perth paper records in two columns the com-
plimentary dinner given to Mr. “ Mike ’’ Josephs,
who has come from West to East to manage for
Mr. William Anderson whilst the latter is in
London. Haynes, K.C., was in the chair, J-tnd
the things he said of the guest of the evening
spoke well for (1) that guest’s qualities; (2) the
speaker’s mastery of the use of words; (3) the
liquor and food. Mr. Josephs’ complexion is of
the strawberry blonde order, and he must have
blushed brightly enough , to light a subway. A
medical Haynes, who was present, said, in sup-
porting the toast, that.a pure stage
elevates mankind, and is one of the means when one is
sorrow-stricken and down-hearted of raising one back to
health. Frequently I am -consulted by persons to whom
I give some burnt sugar and water, and I. send thene to
the theatre for the purpose, of having a laugh and b;eing
lifted out of themselves, and so'sent home well.
And probably the chemist who dispenses that
prescription of, burnt sugar, water, and a howl of
‘merriment (though he doesn’t supply the howl)
charges 2s. ,6d,, as per usual. Dr. Haynes-
must? not insist on a very pure stage unless he
desires to see the theatrical managers suffering
from overdrafts. “The Merry Widow is the
most unelevated but merriest of money spinners,
and Miss Stella Gastelle, as Jack in the panto-
imime at Her Majesty’s, draws with a herd of
(motor car power, chiefly because her very pretty
figure is so perfectly exploited, by her tights
and tiny bob-tailed coatee. But,to return to that
banquet and its cause. After he had protested
'that he did not deserve all the complimentary
(things said of him, Mr. Mike Josephs was. pre-
sented with a gold -double sovereign-case. Then;
he ran home and began to pack.
Amongst the dear departed of last week were
'Ada Crosslev and Ola Humphrey. They 'took
jthe Thursday night’s southern express—they did
inot take it all, of course—and departed from
'their respective armies of farewellers covered with
flowers and good wishes, Almost at the last
whistle Mrs. Crosslev Muepke was pounced upon
•by an unknown young damsel, and presented with
a spindrift-like lace handkerchief which the giver
had been laboring over for many moons. The
Mueckes went right on to Adelaide, where they
will pause a while with,Dr. Mnecke’s people, then
board the Seydlitz on the 21st for foreign parts.
The contralto will make a melodious interlude
en route with a concert at Perth. The important
remainder of the Orossley co.—Harrison, Grain-
ger, Sainetini and (perhaps) Ryan—left by the
Seydlitz last Saturday. Fuzzy-wuzzy Sametini
would seem to have taken with him a record num-
ber of unsought promises of undying remembrance
from Australian Ophelias. Amazing why the fid-
dler’s music should go to the female head as if it were
a mixture of burgundy and champagne. Compared
with his melody-making, the pianist’s music is as
ginger ale in its effect on the brain centres of the
emotional thing with the sausage coiffure.
Miss Ola Humphrey’s engagement with J.C.W..
ends in July, and on the 18th of that chilly month
she will start being rocked in the perambulator of
the deep on board the Macedonia, which she joins
at Adelaide.
That courageous and promising young mummer,
Dion Titheradge, came hither without his heart.
The girl he left it with will shortly bring out the
organ in her carpet bag, and there will be a
wedding. The bride-elect is not a stage maiden.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The luck of the game !. Adelaide trams
have killed three people in the few weeks since
electric cars began to run. And in every case the
damage was done by the remnants of the dead old
horse-cars, which still run on some suburban lines.
The swift electrics have not had a mishap worth
mentioning yet.
A justifiable cow-plaint from Melbourne
A pair of alleged cattle-duffers were lately committed
for trial in-Melbourne, under circumstances of much
public interest. Probably the case has escaped general
notice thusfar, but it hears on the question whether the
public reserves of Melbourne were intended as open
breathing spaces and recre ition grounds for citizens or as
grazing areas forkine. The animals said to have been
‘‘duffed” were twO cows that wandered at large in
Fawkner Park, South Yana. Their owners, presumably,
bought from the local municipality the right to put these
cows to grass along with scores of equally loose cattle,
and they had the' run of the place until somebody came
and “shook” them in the same easy way that anybody
might steal cows from many another public park within
four miles of the G.P.0., All such thefts are un-
pardonablv sinful in the eye of the law, but to the citu
zen who is not a cow-owner it seems a pity that all the
milkers in all the d filed reserves are not stolen
every morning, before they have had time, to
commit a public nuisance. To a number of timid
women the park thoroughfares are practically closed bv
these horned visitors. Young cricketers and footballers
resent their intrusion on the playing grounds, and men
of older growth are unpleasantly reminded of the
presence of these lethargic animals in more ways than
one. There’s a reserve in the Brunswick distr.ct,
where scores of cows put in their daytime and mostly
sleep out. For that matter, anyone walking through
Fawkner Park, aforesaid, Albert Park, or Royal Park on a
dark night is likely to fall over a cow. Richmond Park,
close to the city, is overrun by horses as well as
cattle, and the frequent stampedes of those beasts of
burden are fraught with grave danger to cil fvesco love-
makers. The conversion of parks into grazing grounds
for stock by grasping municipalities, which charge small
fees to the stockowners, has become a public grievance of
late, therefore the introduction of a “duffing” industry
into the metropolis is a questionable evil. A person who
turns his cow adrift, to the annoyance of the community ,,
deserves to lose it as soon as possible.


■
J'-H, ■
r - ' * 4 ;v-
I!
r
vMzy't m
■/
i
s-
y^j
//
-\
5X
m
■:;
C-O-B-R-A
Boot PolisH!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Plays a little
Cricket too ;
When the bear
With “COBRA”
All three wickets
Would demolish,
Polish
Chunder trembles
In his shoes.
(Which reminds hi
YOU should use
“COBRA” on the
Shoes YOU cherish —•
“COBRA” will not
Let them perish.)


Every Girl
&
Z 6,
m
7,
'm
m
Who
desires comfort
ir\ walking - should wear
DUNLOP
Rubber Heels
They look well & wear well
Accept only Obtainable
H Dunlop'Brand. all stores.
mm
&
itlS
: *<. ■ j
. ■
. , \\
WW: I
a
mm
Wrf®
unless/itted with 'ourjy?*^;
■
i
Solid Rubber
« • s*v *TL
W w ' .
cK not only absorb all noise s-
vibration but double the Mfcof
Vehicle - 7 ' , y
ed/rom jfS .6-upwards perset
years on a private conveyance
Price list on application >'
fBBDu;
vKclbour
urch(MZ)
RANDY ROOLA TEA
I
\\\
p.
tmm.li
• The best i* the country-
side i’ faitfri.’*
The fine, rich flavor of Kandy Koola wins
good cpinions and new friends wherever
It goes.
And housewives who have a care for the
weekly expenses find Kandy Koola more
economical than any other tea.
W'e want to persuade you to try Kandy
Koola once—you will take a deal of per-
suading not to use it after that.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 17, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
Miss Tilda Bruno’s girly adherents in the shil-
ling rush recently formed themselves into a regi-
ment called “The ‘l’Aiglon’ Bodyguard,” which
added in some small degree to the gaiety of
nations. The Bodyguard applauded its idol’s
every appearance, and for this purpose it was in
full force up against the ceiling every night in the
week. Moreover, it usually waited for the great
actress after the show was over, and as soon as
she appeared, Hung itself upon her in a cohort of
sweet and incredibly adoring girl, in most cases
clutching a soupgon of vegetable for presentation.
Lately, when it heard with a sob that its adored
was to make her reallv, truly last appearance, it
clubbed together its petty cash and bought her,
as a memento, a trinket box of silver and a
thimble. Then it wept bitterly and adjourned
sine die.
In two districts of Suburbia the social circle is
agitated by an announcement from the local
town hall. The Mayoress of Richmond has pub-
lished her desire to book the names of candidates
for a “debutante set” at the mayoral ball on
June 15. This idea of gathering together a num-
ber of white-robed novices who have never been
kissed was originated (for Melbourne purposes)
by Mrs. John Madden, in her first burst of acting-
vice-regal dignity, years ago, and it has spread
even unto Richmond. It seems a particularly
lovely idea—in Richmond. Guileless angels of 30
and 1 thereabouts are reported to be blushing with
confusion on the sidewalks of the Bridge-road, as
they unburden their fluttering souls of the confes-
sion that they have entered themselves for the
Debertanty Stakes. And the genuine sweet-
eighteeners who have done likewise are said to be
wondering sadly whether a lengthened frock is a
sassiety penalty for “ coming out at the Mayor’s
bawl,” or whether an innocent who has joined the
grown-ups can continue to skip around in a 13-
year-old skirt as before. It promises to be a
rather gaudy set, and somewhat chipped at the
edges.
Prahran, alas ! will have no set, for the mayoral
hop is “off.” His Worshipful has put in, a
medical certificate to the effect that “his health
will not permit of his undertaking a large function
of this character at present.” P'ran feels that a
mayor has the ball at his feet, and ought to set it
rolling. A lot of rosebuds were prepared to dis-
close their beauty, and a jury of matronly umpires
has awarded the poor sick man,a free kick. P’ran
is really agitated, and the prosaic name of Dobson
—Mayor Dobson—is being toasted for afternoon
tea at a raging fire of indignation.
Dr. Neil Crowley, is engaged to be mar-
ried to Miss Kate Hay, a step-sister of
the late Knight John Hay, of the stout wool
bales. The event happened with sudden-
ness. The doc. went to and re-
turned to find himself engaged. He has been
the despair of match-making mothers for years—a
most eligible bachelor who walked alone, like the
cat mentioned by Rudyard Kipling. The Hay
family is one of the most gilded in all gilded
squatting New South Wales, and Miss Hay
has a few buckets of visible means of sup-
port. The nest of the bridegroom-elect is
not without.some grass and feathers, for he arid
his brother inherited a big estate from their pro-
genitor, a pioneer of Bendigo. The doctor son
has'just returned from London, where lie has been
serving his time specialising in the sort of thing
tiiat worried Job and many other Jobs that came
after the great original Job. He now expounds
his knowledge from a Collins-street residence.
Matrimonial experts gain courage from this sur-
render, and have hopes that bachelor brother Bill
will offer a share in his Bendigo thousands to some
really nice girl. One such surrender usually
brings about another.
Draper Fred Fitzgerald’s handsome daughter
Aileen is about to take the matrimonial rails with
a widower, one Hill, a rich grazier from Kyneton.
Aileen, who has just left her teens behind, is to
step-ma a girl of eighteen summers and two of
lesser years. Younger sister Maude is one of
Melbourne’s beauties. She is of the Irish type,
pensive and violet-eyed. The good looks belong
to the Fitzgeralds, and the taste for trucking
comes from the Heffernans. Mrs. Fitzgerald was
one of the Bendigo Heffernans, whose figures and
dressing were matters of paragraphic interest in
days of old.
Conquest was the appropriate name of the
bridegroom at St. Mary’s, Windsor, the other
day. The bride, Clare Dorothy, daughter of the
late D. J. Tuorney, of Melbourne, was one of the
prettiest graduates at Melbourne ’Varsity. She
took her B. A. degree without turning a hair, and
has, besides, a pretty taste in oil painting. Robed
for the sacrifice, she was a charming study in grey.
The present laird of Goatlands, the Malcolm
McEacharns’ only hope, is doing his dash these
times, and keeps granddad Watson’s money in
circulation. Neil Mac aforesaid had a box party
on Saturday to see “Sweet Nell.” Mrs. Brooks,
the centre ornament of the party, direetoired in
black, and struck a note of interrogation in pink
roses. Chief Justice Madden’s youngest, Beatrice,
helped to set the handsome matron off to advan-
tage; while brewer Fitzgerald and Mr. Joe
Brush assisted the Laird to play host.
Will Dyson, famous as a caricaturist, blossomed
out as a lecturer, t’other night. The Australian
Literature Society took him into its admiring
arms and put him under the lirrielight. The
budding youth had to face the horror of an audi-
ence full of personal friends, who resolutely
refused to allow him any of the posing So dear to
a plank-walker. So fortunately the orator,
full of large and luminous thoughts that choked
him, at length subsided into Plain Will
Dyson—speaking. And Will Dyson can speak.
The lecture coruscated and shone and dazzled
with Bright Things—they struck out and hit the
horizon like an Aurora Australis. There never
was such a lecture, only much of it burned in-
wardly and consumed itself, while seething com-
prehensive phrases did a hurdle race over the
speaker’s nervousness, and came to grief on the
piatform floor. A sympathising friend murmured
to him, “Never mind, old man ; it mightn’t have
been much of an oration, but it was an excellent
step dance.” Many of the brilliancies struck fire
thus -
The absence of text books'on black-and-white makes
that art comparatively easy of comprehension.
Actors would prefer to he drawn prettily. In this they
resemble human beings ' but they would sooner be
drawn and qu Ttered than not drawn at all.
George Reid's death would eclipse the gaiety of pub-
lications.
Premier Fisher regretfully admitted his weakness as
f iod for caricature. He is a self-made man. If be makes
himself again be will have a nose like a bologna and
i 'lding ears.
These are only a few stray meteors from the
Big Shoal. Tf Will Dv-on could lr> persuaded to
face a platform again ami just read that lecture,
we’d feel that we had a second Mark Twain
coming along.
In his talk on Black and White, Norman
Lindsay was critically and well discussed. Nor-
man Lindsay, of course, towers in the world of
Black and White. Interested critics sprang up
from points in the audience and sang paeans and
other things at the Great Man who is so young
and yet so powerful.
Dyson has his picture show on the 25th.
Already one of his caricatures has been sold
before it had a chance to be hung.
■ Will Dyson wishes the rumor to be contradicted
that he has been asked to stand for Kooyong or
the Senate since his imposing appearance in plat-
form work on the 13th.
Incidental to the opening of his picture show'
at Furlong’s Studio, in the Royal Arcade, artist
Will Dyson is putting a booklet on the market,
with the title of “The Key.” Clothed in a seduc-
tive wrapper, “ The Key” is partly an illustrated
guide to the show ; but apart from its cataloguey
character, and theadvts. which have bought their
wav into it, the booklet contains original draw-
ings and literary matter to tempt the person who
is looking for novelty at a bookstall. The nice
girl on the cover is a Ruby Lindsay creation.
An Australian pianist, Mr. Victor Busst, just
returned from lapping up music in Leipsic, has
made a meteor burst in Melbourne with a recital.
A brother, Aylmer Busst, a youthful composer,
shared the limelight by having his sweet songs
w'arbled by pretty Carmen Pinschof. These boys
are grandchildren of Mrs. Pett, an old lady who
won much fame at the piano in earlier Melbourne
days. Mrs. Busst, her daughter, followed in her
footsteps—or rather hand steps—and is a clever
pianiste. She departed this city 11 years ago,
with her boys—who were then scarcely out of the
baby stage—and has since lived with them and
worked with them continuously at their studies in
the music-heavy German atmosphere. Vic-
tor, the pianist, gave one recital in Lon-
don, when he became full-fledged then
came right home to Australia. Aylmer, the
brother, a maker of sweet melody, is the
youngest Australian to hold an important con-
dnctorship’abroad. He was one of the conductors
of the orchestra of the Opera House at Breslau in
Sourkroutland. Breslau’s Opera House is so
thorough that it has a conductor for each
“school” of music. It realises that a Wagner
lunatic, for instance, is incapable of doing justice
to a delicate Italian composer. So there are four
conductors, and Boy Aylmer was honored as one
of them.
“An Englishman’s Home,” at Her Majesty’s,
“Nell Gwynne,” at the Princess’s, and Maggie
Moore in “Struck Oil,” at the Royal,
made a division of theatre-goers on Satur-
day. Each house had a full set of first-nighters.
Nell Stewart Gwynne, of course, made her frocky
play a joy to women. The dresses were dreams,
and in a period of such silken elaboration of orna-
ment there is something to look at when lords and
ladies have got ’em all on. A point to feminine
frivolity was that the Big Hat of the play—the
one that roused screams at its some-years-ago pre-
sentation—looked a piere saucer compared with
the up-to-date mode of headgear.
The Permanent Orchestra fund is tending in a
healthy financial direction, judging by a Marshall
Hall concert on Saturday. To find the Town Hall
packed at a matinee in the rage of a football season
looks healthy. Saw the golden-haired Grainger
Boy in the audience with musical medico Hamil-
ton Russell. He wasmeteoringthrough witli comet
Ada Grossley toward Adelaide and the Gold Land.
In the rest of the audience the Germanic element
was strong—almost strong enough to knock over
the atmosphere. When the orchestra worked
round to the Brahms Akademische overture, the
whole house bristled with Sauerkrauts who with
difficulty restrained themselves from yelling
“ Hoch !’’ likewise “Prosit !” Brahms rhapso-
died the melody under the inspiration of a Degree
from his University, and it sails on a stormy sea
of lager. The Germans were not the only chosen
people of the programme; there eventuated an
Hebraic fantasia, played on his ’cello by the
woolly-haired Hattenbach. The Kolnidrei is a
rather colorless collection of Hebrew melodies.
It was decidedly quieter than the dulcet Hebraic
notes to be heard in the “ ring’’ at Flemington.
The rapturous height of tin*. Beethoven G minor
was the reason-of-being of the concert, and the
concert had every reason to be.
The end of another chapter of Tittell Brune
sputtered out in pain, greengrocery, and emotion
at Her Majesty’s, last week. There might have
been more crowd in circle and stalls, but the gods
held a jammed township, mostly girl, in a state of
frightful adoration. • And Heaven’s nearest neigh-
bors for the time being were in such a condition of
uproar that they became a nuisance. They
banged their, palms at every entrance, and they
crowded on gusts of enthusiasm almost at every
word tittered by their beloved star. At the end
the tragedy or farce that had been threatening
nil night burst in a storm of shouts and tears.
Flowers swarmed on to the stage, and, while the
gods shouted till their voices gave out, the actress
—greater in this than in any play—drooped with
trivial artistry, and wept some ingenuous weep.
Fortunately before the audience could decide to
see the rest of it out on a raft, the celebrity, with
much presence of mind, extracted a mosquito-like
hanky and sopped up the Atlantic. Finally she
struggled to the footlights, and, in a voice that
was slightly a sob, heroically thanked the audience
for its appreciation. The scene was affecting in
its impromptu sadness, especially when the lady
declared that she might one day return with
laurels won in London. From which it would
appear that Miss Brune’s farewell was not a fare-
well, but just another encore.
The Hawthorn Choral Society, which has for
its conductor Mr. Fred Mewton, a clever young
organist and musician in general, is rehearsing
Gade’s “Erl King’s Daughter” with orchestral
accompaniment. The performance comes off at
the local town hall on Wednesday (20th). Lilian
Reid, Elva Rogers, and James Wade will take the
principal solo parts, and the vice-regals and chief
judicial people have promised to confirm their
patronage and their personal attendance at the
concert.
Melbourne National Gallery is now showing on
loan an attractive piece of work by Sculptor Web
Gilbert, well known.in artistic circles for several
small but pleasant successes in marble. The
present work might be described as a natural
history melodrama. A motherly native companion
bird bends affectionately over her infants; while
the veriest Laurence Dunbar of the animal
world, a crafty, gliding snake, waits with a mock-
ing smile to pounce on the unsuspecting matron.
The piece, which may or may not have, some
allegorical or Edenish significance, was executed
to the order of a well-known connoisseur.
Miss Margaret Klos, that dimpling, adorable
Scotch item of the Three Klos Sisters, who re-
volved gracefully at Rickards’ a while (before
Maggie married the clever young electrician of
the staff), is opening a school for physical culture
next week in rooms opposite the Town Hall.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide town
Narracoorte, where the caves are, has been having the
time of its life. It was this way. Our little hustling
Tourist Bureau suddenly discovered that the old Narra-
coorte caves were looking dog’s-eared and down at heel.
So it said to its minions and its heyducs, “Go forth and
discover a new cave.” That being done, the town asked
his Ex. to come to tea and to open the thing. His Ex.
said he would come, and her Ex. said she would, and
the two Excellencettes said they would ; also the
Acting-Premier said he would certainly be there, and
the Conservator of Forests declared he would die rather
thin miss it; and the Director of the Tourist Depart-
ment alleged that he would climb over five dead bodies
sooner than be out of the event. All along the route
addresses of welcome flagged the train and leaped on
board. As for Narracoorte itself, it was entirely con-
cealed beneath welcome arches and festoons of banners,
and bands and armies and things. Late on Wednesday
night the Exes, emerged from the flurry of banquets and
receptions, and were dragged back to town by a very
sleepy engine which snored all the way and breathed
mixed drinks through its funnel.
Their Exes, invited Lieutenant Shackleton and his
portmanteau full of polar bears to the Residence for the
first few days of his stay in this corner of the
world. Later he went on to be the guest of the Evan
Kyffin Thomases, at Glenelg, and remained with them until
the mail steamer carted him away in triumph. There
was a frilly send-off for the lion at the station, and at the
Outer Harbor. The Chief Justice Ways, some Stirlings,
and the rest of the aristocracy shook Shackleton by the
hand. While he was in Adelaide he had a cable from the
Royal Geographical Society of Scotland, to say that it was
thrusting the Livingstone gold medal upon him without
further notice.
We shall soon be one long permanent ball. The’Varsity
begins it on the 25th of May, and after that the thing will
be kept swiftly rolling. The Mayoral frivol happens on
June 23, and the children's same occurs two days later.
The Cruickshanks, who run the municipal proceedings of
St. Peters, have a function on June 9. The Prossers, who
guard and guide the municipality of Norwood, had a re-
ception last week, and it is suspicioned that a ball looms in
that direction. As for the private and committee enter-
tainments, they are already taxing our supply of man to
a frightful extent. Girl is ph ntiful enough, but man is a
scarce and shamed-looking object.
Mrs. Vivienne, she who wrote “Sunny South Aus-
tralia,” and sundry other hooks, is endeavoring to arouse
the interest of the multitude on behalf of the orphaned
infants of the late Grace Jennings Carmichael. It has
come to light that the Australian versifier died in great
poverty in cold and British London, and her kiddies—
three little boys—are growing up in an English work-
house. Mrs. Vivienne’s notion is that Australian women,
and particularly women scribes (though these latter are
not a moneyed lot), should arise in their might and start
a mammoth shilling subscription in order to rescue the
youngsters from their drear surroundings and give them
some education. The eldest boy was born in Adelaide,
and that is a reason why this hamlet should start the
good work. Miss Spence and various other folk are in-
terested, and Mrs. Vivienne is going to talk to the men of
the other States on the subject of doing with one less
Cigar for the good cause.
The BnniseS are off to Sydney at the end of the week.
The Professor is going to lecture at Sydney ’Varsity on
“The Development of the Sonata,” and Mrs. Ennis is
carding her fiddle along to give interpolations from
the works of the late Messrs. Beethoven, Bach, Brahms,
and other gentlemen, including Bowxthysmnkply and
Pryxtolzxgntwx, Mrs. Ennis has given up the secretary-
ship of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Beasts. She has long kept a kindly eye upon the public
appearance of oUr animal kingdom, from the barnyfird
duck to the aged tram steed, and her interest in the
down-trodden brotherhood of lower animals is in no way
diminished. The society holds its annual meeting this
week, when his Ex. will take the.chair. He has now
taken so many chairs that if lie only took the bedstead
and the chest of drawers the Residence would be com-
pletely refurnished.
The Collector of Customs has received his periodical
communication from the gentleman with a conscience
that troubles him to the extent of £l. This time he con-
fesses to the crime of carrying a tin of honey over the
Queensland border into the Northern Territory 15 years
ago, and never paying duty. The £1 enclosed includes
this duty and interest for 15 years !
We grow home-made music while you wait in this
State, and good music too. We could have shown you 12
songs and a trio the other night, nil planted by the same
damsel, and she is a young damsel and a Mus. Bate. to
boot! Her name is Angelita Davis, and her home-grown
symphonies were sung and played at the Lyric Club by- -
home-grown maidens. Some of the songs were very
charming, and there was one of them called “ 000-ee,” i o
which I should have taken off my picture hat if 1 had
happened to be wearing it. Another girl, Ruby Davey, also
young, also a Mus. Bac., has Written incidental melodies,
in the shape of string quartette, to Maeterlinck’s “ Sister
Beatrice,” a private performance of which is going to
occur at the Oonservatorium at the end of this week.
Probably it is one of the results of the pamper-
ing of Fijian cricketers , and such like by silly
society girls that now bubbles out in an advertise-
ment in several Australian dailies. It rends :
“Twins, Fijian, good plantations, plenty money,
want white wives,’’ and appended is a description
of their particular chofbe in flesh tones. The
brown twins have evidently been elevated by their
countrymen’s account of the gush and ogle of
White Girl in Australia. One handsome piece of
bronze, who came along with a visiting chieftain’s
cricket team a year or so agone, used to unburden
his swollen soul,to a Fijian-speaking white of his
acquaintance. “If those lunatics of girls could
hear the tenor of his remarks translated
forcibly from the vernacular,” remarked that
Australian,, “it would make their hair curl.”
As it was, the White smote the Audacious One
a “left-upper” and shut him tip for the time.
But the petted, handsomenigger went away from
here declaring he “could get white wife easy.”
One society,minx took him for a motor spin on a
moonlight night and added mixed surf bathing to
her indiscretions, also surreptitious aftern ton teas
and suppers a deux.
The dental students are going to dance. Their
annual ball will happen at P’ran on June 10. The
invitations g ory in the gold crest of the society—
an emu and a kangaroo fighting over a human
tooth.
Somebody asked Shackleton (heroes do have to
answer such questions) if he ever intended to
make another attempt at ferreting out that surly
South Pole. “I won’t .answer you,” said Shacky.
“I’ll tell you a’story.” This was the tale“ Some
men, who, b) r inadvertence, had been delayed at
the Club, were seeing each other home in jovial
beln tion. Said one (when they reached his door),
‘Come in an-’ave-a-drink.’ ‘What about your
wife ? ’ chorused the hoys considerately. ‘ Not at
all,’ gurgled the genial one ; ‘ I’m Julius Cassar in
this house—what I say goes.’ Whereupon a head
appeared at the window. ‘ Come right in, gentle-
men,’ said the head. ‘ You know where the side-
board is. Help yourselves; but, as for you, Julius
—you come straight to bed.’ I have a wife,”
added Shackleton.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


r/


BRAND YOUR
SHEEP
WITH
%
f / 1
!* '
- 2
unmtti n i uiimi i mnn
BLACK, RED (SL BLUE <
4s. Per Gallon.
(In 8-Gallon Cases).
1-Gallon Tins,
► 4s. 6d. each.
Kenipton, Tasmania, sth September, 1905.
Dear Sirs —lt is preferable to any I have ever used ; tlv longer it stands on the
sheep, the more plainly it shows. (Signed) JAMES HADDON, Senr.
“ Coorawong,” via Coonamble, N.S.W., 16th May, 1905.
2n usinsr “Kemp’S Sheep Branding Liquid ” for a numbi
years,
Dear Sirs —I have been using “ Kemp’s Sheep Branding Liquid ” for a number of
I find’“Kemp’s” is the best. I will continue using it. _
(Signed) A. J. HOWARD.
Agents in MELBOURNE (Dalgety & Co. Ltd.).
~ SYDNEY (E. RICH &. Co., Ltd.).
„ ADELAIDE (D. &. J. Fowler Ltd.).
„ KINGSTON, S.A. (Dalg'ety &. Co. Ltd.).
~ BRISBANE (E. RicK &. Co. Ltd.).
~ ROCKHAMPTON (Dalgety &, Co., Ltd.).
~ TOWNSVILLE (Dalg'ety &. Co. Ltd.).
~ FREMANTLE (Dalg'ety &. Co. Ltd.).
~ HOBART (Wm. Crosby &. Co.).
„ LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell & Co. Ltd.).
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID IS NOT AN OIL AND
WILL NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
What “Capillarine” does.
However bare j’our lip, however slight the down, CAPILLARINE
will actually and produce a full grown moustache for
any man who follows the simple directions on the label.
It is nice to use and absolutely undetectable.
CAPILLARfNE, 10 6 A JAR,
Post Free to any
part of the World.
Craig: & Ait ken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
tse/dre
J7/?er
THE FASHIONABLE
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100.
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/6 per 100.
“ Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored :
11/6 per 100.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/6 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
from 6/6 to 12/6
per WO.
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLAVORED.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth from leading Tobacconists or the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Postage—Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
The
“Oval ”
Puzzle
Match Box.
The Latest Puzzle Match Box on the market.
Strongly and neatly made, nickel-plated, and handy
size for vest pocket. A great joke on cadgers who,
upon asking for a match, are handed this tricky
little box, which they struggle in vain to open.
Quite easy to open when you are in the know. Full
directions enclosed. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Joker’s Indiarubber Snake
One of our most successful surprise novelties. Folds
up in a very small space, and can be held in a closed
hand without being noticed. Springs out of the
hand in a most natural way. Made of indiarubber,
and is absolutely unbreakable. Causes heaps of
amusement. Price //.3jpastiree.ahy.ivhe.i:.e.: .
(J.S A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watchmen, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and bid, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
jnost useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/0, or post free
anywhere for 3/-.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—
New Edition just published
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager,. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
2 Branch: 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street. —Hon. W. 0. HIGGS, Local Director.
p
rtf
J d
R
ALCOCICS
Billi&rd Tatfo
The “BIJOU” BILLIARD
TABLE, fitted with slate bed and
fast=ruhning cushions, covered
in superfine billiard cloth, 6ft. x
3ft. 3 £l9 ; 7ft. x 3ft.
£22; Bft. x 4ft. £2s ; 9ft.
x 4ft. £3l 10s. Easy
terms if desired. By a simple
adjustment of leaves these tables
can be immediately used as
dining tables.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
and
397 George Street, Sydney.
PTV
UTP
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Afiections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest aud most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
iDINNEFORDS]
I MAGNESIA)
MOMENTS W/IEN ‘
- —YOU NEED
m
R
r,
V s
No. 9.
AT THE...
FOOTBALL MATCH |
The football season
and the OT ' season
come along together*,
and if there is one
thing players and
spectators grow
more enthusiastic
about than the game
it is ‘ O.T.’
The crowd shouts
all sorts of things
during the play, but
when the interval
comes all the shouts
are for ‘ O.T.’ The
players shout for it —
the spectator
shouts for it
the re.eree
shouts fori
If one voice
spoke for all
it would be
‘ O.T.’
for
20,000.
1
VIHISKV
BRANDY
WiN| OR
/VBlißot
MAKES A
DELICIOUS
ALSO THE
BEST
LIQUEUR
A»TeA»CALS
WATIR i
JDiXON&C?
I CRSAT CURB.
OR IttDICESTIOfi
RICHARDSON 6> & MEL&


Under Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
161 king street, SYDNEY,
’ Between Elizabeth and Castlerea<rh Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINQS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkkl),,
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., P ly. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendho, Geelong.
Fig. 920
THE GOULDS MFG. CO.
Seneca Falls, Wew York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
For Mining Service
Goulds Single - Acting Triplex Plun-
ger Pumps are superior to any. These
pumps will handle water in a positive
and efficient manner. The adoption of
electric power in nearly all mines, has
made it possible, to place a Power Pump
in almost any part of the workings, in
many instances where it would be hardly
possible to place a steam pump on
account of the long distance the steam
would have to be piped. Our Pumps are
compact and self-contained and do away
with the expensive steam pipes that are
an unending source of annoyance and
discomfort to the miner. *We issue a
booklet on the subject and shall be
pleased to forward it to those interested.
smoke nrrrnrr
~ ntrtntt tobacco
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND keep your money at home.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port D arwin.
■
m
m
?
- ,
. ' 1
. »• »& w °'
All progressive Hardware and Sporting
Goods Merchants handle STEVENS.
If you cannot obtain please let us know.
Send for 160 Page Illustrated Cata-
logue. Replete with STEVENS and
general firearm information. Striking
cover in colors.
J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL CO.,
546 Broadway, " >•«■*»
Chicopee Falls, Mass., U.S.A.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*o*U*l*S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
tor pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
OUIS
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained /rom
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
/©•
EXCLUSIVE
r 5
4
*
SsJ
»
cc:wk^
3>
>=4*
M!
r«
WEDDING PRESENTS.
Solid Silver Pieces
of an exquisite beauty, which, with their very
practical nature, makes them the most desirable
Brides' Gifts. Among the new pieces, we pick
out the following for particular mention—our
only regret being that we cannot illustrate them.
Being exclusive pieces it would hardly pay to
have illustrations made. We will post any article
free on receipt of remittance, and give you the
right to exchange or have your full remittance
back. We supply Complimentary Cards, and
attach them to the article bought by means of
the usual Ribbon, and deliver the goods on the
appointed day to any address. ? ,
Afternoon Tea Spoons, in cases, 30s, 355, 40s, 45s
52s 6d, 555, 60s, 70s. ’
Afternoon Tea Sets, 230 s and 2505.
Bells (Table), 21s.
Butter Dishes, 50s.
Butter Knives, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 11s 6d ; 2 in case, 27s 6d.
Cake Baskets, 150 s, 160 s, 2205.
Candlesticks, 50s, 755, 90s pair.
Cream Jugs, 30s, 32s 6d, 455, 67s 6d, 60s.
Bruit Dishes, 84s, 955, 115 s, 1355.
Fruit Spoons, in case, 37s 6d, 755.
Gravy Boats, 255.
Knife Rests, in case, 8s 6d, 11s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d,
silver-mounted on Glass.
Knife Rests, with Pearl Horns, 20s.
Mustard Pots, 37s 6d.
Menu Holders, 7s 6d.
Pepper Casters, T4s 6d, 16s 6d, 255, 32s 6d.
Pepper Mills, Silver and Oak, 17s 6d : Silver and
Glass, 37s 6d.
Rose Bowls, 455, 555, 110 s, 210 s.
Sweet Dishes, 11s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
37s 6d, 47s 6d, 635, 70s, 955, 100 s.
Salt Cellars, .13s 6d, 18s 6d, 27s 6d, 30s, 35s \ 1 pair
in case, :21s, 52s 6d.
Sugar Casters, 555, 70s, 80s.
Sugar Basing, 30s, 50s.
Toast Racksj 20s, 40s, 425.
Trays, 67s 6d, 11 Os, 190 s, 5505.
Vases, 14s 6d, 17s 6d, 18s 6d, 255, 27s 6d, 355, 40s
up to 105 s.
Silver Tea Pots, full size, ,£l3 10s.
Tea and Coffee Services, ,£3O, _£47.
Queen Anne Kettles and Stands, ;£l7 IjOs.
Tea Caddies, 40s.
Champagne Cups, 110 s.
Inkstands, 555, -80 s, 150 s.
•J • '
If you have not yet got a copy of our 112-page Art
Catalogue, write for one now. A postcard with
your name and address on, if posted to us, will
ensure a copy by return.
STEWART DAWSON & CO. (Australia) Ltd.,
412 George Street, SYDNEY


WLANOS
KALYDOR
FOR - SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
Mr. Duncan MoKellar, of 91 Princes Street,
Sydney, who contracted a cold in the kidneys,
tells in the following letter how he suffered witli
aching back and bladder troubles from which he
could gain but little relief until he commenced
taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. As a veri-
fication of his statement he sends his photograph
foy publication.
“I have much pleasure,
he writes, “in testifying to
the worth of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. Some
months ago I contracted a
cold in the kidneys, and
bladder trouble followed.
For some weeks I suffered
agony at times, piercing
pains in the back and burn-
ing sensations at the base of
the abdomen, which only
hot fomentations relieved.
I was under various treat-
ments, but nothing gave me
so much ease as Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, which I
took regularly for some
weeks, until all symptoms seemed to have dis-
appeared. I have since continued their uSe,
taking three pills occasionally, and I can assure
you that I am almost free from my complaint.
At the first indication of any return I take a dose
immediately, and it is thus warded off. Undoubt-
edly your pills are an excellent medicine both for
children and adults, being mild in their action
and effectual as a corrective of all common family
ailments. My wife and children take them
occasionally, and we always keep a bottle in the
house, and recommend them to everyone.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a positive remedy for bilious-
ness, indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow
complexion, liver and kidney troubles, pile',
pimples and blotches, and for female ailments.'
Mr. Duncan McKellar.
(From a photo.)
R
SELECT STOCK ALE &
$5. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents— RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALGOORLIE and COOLQARPIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The sudden downpour on Saturday gave the
Sydney footballers a chance for the real thing that they
did not hanker after. When Glebe met St. George on a
slippery field with a greasy ball it started operations with
a series of attempted passing charges ; which, of course,
came to grief every time. St. George also acted the giddy
ox by trying the same tactics, but, recognising its
blunder, suddenly let loose a dribbling rush that broke
through the Glebe defence, and rolled over the line to
score the first points of the day. Then Glebe changed its
tactics', shortening the passes, and, after a number of
failures, got in and made the figures equal, with three all.
After more in-and-out play, Glebe abandoned passing
rushes and let loose dribbling charges, and down went
the Saints by three to 11. For a rollicking, sliding,
mud-larking outing the match between Manly and South
Sydney at the Sports Ground would be hard to beat. On
that quagmire passing was impossible, and both sides
instructed the forwards to “get into it.” And they
got. It was hilarious —especially for the spectators.
Manly played up splendidly, and for quite a time held its
own against the heavier weight of the sand-pluggers
from South Sydney. At half-time South managed to lead
by three to nil. At the resumption Manly became very
aggressive, and, hurling South on to its line, raged
like the heathen in Holy Writ. A little more order
and combination in its raging, and it would have broken
through again and again; bub South, kept cool by the
water that trickled down its back, pulled down the mob
that tried to leap its barricade, and then, with a well-
disciplined rush, heaved the aggressors off the line ; but,
incurring a penalty, had the mortification of seeing Manly
kick a very neat goal. It wasapenalty goal, kicked from
inside Manly’s 25, that settled the game and gave South
Sydney the advantage of six points to three. As far as
play was concerned, the teams were very equal; but the
South had slightly the better discipline.
For the rest, Western Suburbs downed North
Sydney by three to nil; Newtown crushed Sydney by 16
to three ; and Eastern Suburbs made a holy show of
Balmain, rolling it in the mud of adversity and Rush-
cutter’s Bay by 23 to nil. University’s luck was in that
day—it had the bye. The result is that Glebe and South
Sydney are still neck and neck in the competition with
eight points each, with Eastern and Western Suburbs in
the second row with six points each. Newtown has five,
University and Balmain four each, Manly three, Sydney
and St. George two each, and poor old North Sydney
none. Here erideth the chronicles of the Union.
* * * *
The Rugby League has fixed up a tour of the
All Blacks in Sydney, and five matches will be played by
the Maorilanders and the Kangaroos, between June 5 and
July 3, mostly at the Agricultural Ground. This seems
to be, about the League’s last-kick. If -it turns out a boom
that body will probably be set on its feet : if it fails, well,
a long good-night.
* ■* * *
The Sydney Soccer people were unlucky at
their first inter-State match, for on Saturday the Jasper
Sea upset in Heaven, and the resultant downpour spoiled
the gate. But, bad as it was, there was a very decent
crowd, which proves that Soccer enthusiasts are not so
scarce as is generally supposed. The teams proved to be
well matched, and both sides exhibited some very pretty
play in spite of unfavorable Conditions. The Westralian
forwards were a little wild, and showed a. tendency to go
on their own ; but it was more than compensated by the
sound defence of the backs, which, over and over again,
proved a veritable wall. N.S.W. forwards were decidedly
the better, but their superiority was nullified by the
soundness of the Westralian defence. Bennett, the Wes-
tralian goalkeeper, was a wonder. The Walers, raging
continually within shooting distance, kept up a continual
bombardment ; but were unable to get past him. Affairs
ended in a draw (two goals each) after a game in which
the play was vimful from start to finish. The next meet-
ing is. on. the. same spot (Sydney Cricket Ground) on
Saturday, the 22nd.
So far this season Melbourne’s football weather
has resembled the rotten climate experienced by the late
Noah. Last Saturday the rain held off for a few hours,
but the high wind and sloppy grounds were just as dis-
astrous to good football. Consequently it’s hard to say
as yet who is and who isn’t. Essendon and South
threaten to arrive, and Carlton looks like a “ was,” but
this paper wouldn’t advise anyone to bust up his Dead-
horse donation on the'forecast. The Carlton collided
with’Wood on Saturday, and, chiefly by surer handling
of the ball, led throughout, and notched 50 points to 33,
which wasn’t as great an advantage as it looks, in a
manner of speaking. From the start the Magpies were
never two goals to the bad, and after the last spell they
put up such a determined and sustained at tack that in
10 minutes they had got a two-point lead. The ominous
silence in the packed reserve chilled the Carlton battlers ;
each knew that a third successive defeat might mean a
temporary holiday for him, wherefore their bogging-in
during that last 15 minutes was something tremendous,
and the wearied, spent Magpies vainly strove to avert
the disaster represented by three swift and sudden goals.
But the team is not the Carlton of last year by a jugful.
The concussion of St. Kilda and University was expected
to be considerable, but in the second quarter the Saints
collared a lead of 37 points to nine, and, though they
kicked nary a goal thereafter, the Students’ addition of
12 points left things much as they was before they
weren’t, or thereabouts —Saints 42, Uni. 21. Richmond
put up a considerable skirmish against the regener-
ated ’Roy, and at three-quarter time was only
seven points in arrear; but in the last 25 ’Roy
had the wind, w'hich helped it to 10 scoring shots,
worth 30 points, leaving Richmond with a deficit
'of 37 to 68. The redoubtable South, remember-
ing its last year’s defeat by Melbourne, paraded a power-
ful team, which hustled to such purpose that the Red
Legs didn’t know what sort of an avalanche had over-
taken them, and after a hopeless period of splashing
around, retired discomfited, nursing a grievance repre-
sented by the figures 88 to 24. The lopsided Geelong 18,
which mostly performs best when it promises worst, put
up a hefty battle against the powerful “same old Essen-
don,’’and though it held second place throughout the
discussion, it was never so far in arrear that two straight
kicks wouldn’t have given it the lead. But the two kicks
had been mislaid, and the ’Dons returned to town with
another scalp at their belts—66 points to 59.
In football Ass. matters around Melbourne the
uprising of the erst negligible Preston seventeen was
temporarily squelched by the Premiers, ’Scraj% who
passed them a “ dirty doing- ” to the tune of 67 points to
34. P’ran, the only unbeaten team, put in a cheerful
afternoon’s practice, casually totting up 75 points while
North painfully and laboriously accumulated 14. In like
manner Williamstovvn wiped its feet on Port Mel-
bourne, the victors getting in 79 wipes to the losers’
23. Brighton succumbed to Essendon by 51 to
33 after a pleasing game, in which the losers
had all the better of the argument until just on
the close. Brighton has better pluck than luck.
Last season it had one of the Robinson brothers badly
damaged and laid off for weeks. This season the same
’bailer came to grief in a practice match ; a week ago
another sustained serious casualties, and on Saturday a
second Robinson fractured his collar-bone. The disturb-
ance between the brickmaking suburbs of Brunswick and
Northcote was a forceful episode, but the 14-point win of
the former—62 to 48—wasn’t half as accentuated as it
ought to have been, considering the abounding incom-
petence of ’Cote.
*** * .
This paper is no crier of Stinking Fish, but it
hereby urges the Victorian Hoofball League to speedily
and strenuously consider a system of district football
that will be a genuine fact and not a joyous joke ; and
warns it that, if it doesn’t do so, something disastrous
will presently happen. It needs but the betting of the
early’nineties to cause scandals in League football that
will kill the game for a decade. The traffic in players,
the cash inducements admittedly offered, increase yearly;
and the League is fully aware of it. Not only are men
enticed from Association to League clubs and vice, versa ;
but, as was shown by a case but a fortnight back, the
offer of 40s. per week “expenses” was sufficient to
cause a promising player to throw over the club that had
promised him 30s. a week and join the other. Being
asked by the flouted club to “ deal with ” this youth the
League gently requested the other club not to play him
till further notice. Nothing happened to the club that
offered the 40s. or to the 30s. one either, though there
is one great joy in the business ; the footballer who got
into trouble threatens to sue the League for 335. 6d. ex-
penses incurred in coming up to see the League and
hear what a poor opinion it had of him. Now, by
no stretch of imagination can 40s. a week be con-
sidered an honest allowance for “expenses” for two
hours’ play on Saturday. Furthermore, does the League
expect other non-professional or semi-professional players
to do their best alongside of and towards this favored
’bailer? It has got to come either to open professionalism,
with its concomitants of heavy wagering, squaring and
other chicanery'—the club with the heaviest purse and
the lightest conscience buying the best talent wherever
it can—or district football. And there can be no question
as to which will better serve the game.
* » » *
Instances of the polite pseudo-amateurism of
Melbourne’s Football League are being generally ignored
by officialdom as phenomena, and being generally 7
accepted by the public as commonplaces. No one was
particularly startled by a rather cynical little comedy
that came to pass outside a metropolitan football ground
on a recent Saturday. The chief actors were a feverish
club secretary and a trio of solemn, distinguished “ ama-
teurs,” who had struck work for increased emolument.
The secretary was beseeching them in low, plaintive
tones to go in and strip for battle ; but the three swore
that they would only 7 strip for cash. It was said that
they had formed - themselves into a sort of trust, and
w 7 ere asking £l5 for the three for a single appearance.
They 7 were, of course, very “ boshter” footballers, and
couid not be trifled with. The secretary 7, with his tem-
perature about 149 degrees in the shade, pushed on with
his tearful supplications, and finally came to a compro-
mise whereby two of the three surrendered and decided to
play 7. That is one public illustration of the sordid
bargaining that is reducing Melbourne football from a
fine sport to a muddy trade.
♦ * * ♦
W. Matthews, the Sydney University half-
back, who recently 7 stove his face in by colliding with his
own full-back, has announced his intention of retiring
from active Rugby. In the words of the push, he is
satisfied. Herewith a few bay leaves. Matthews was
undoubtedly one of the finest half-backs the Rugby
Union has produced, and has earned much glory 7 in both
inter-State and national fixtures. While his retirement
will be a severe loss to the game, Matthews is wise in
leaving the shambles while some of him is left in a sound
condition.
* * * *
A Frenchman named Bellamy recently startled
London by skimming up and down the Thames in a
hydroplane driven, or rather dragged, by an aero-pro-
peller at the rate of 40 miles an hour. The only passenger
was a Daily Chronicle man, who assisted the inventor
in the navigation ; and he describes the sensation as very
thrilling and a sort of intoxication that sets up a fearful
hankering- for more and yet more. The chief drawback is
the fearful torrent of air blown backward over the navi-
gators by 7 the aero-propeller; this nearly 7 tore the
Chronicle’s scalp off, and interfered with his
vision to such an extent that the landscape
became a grey 7 blur. Tbe craft itself consisted
of two narrow canvas-decked canoes supporting a
steel framework where the motor was placed and the
navigators hung on. The motor was a six-cylinder one,
developingso-h.p., and made by 7 Bellamy specially for the
purpose. A curious feature was that, in spite of the fear-
ful speed, the structure left no wash, merely skimming
over the surface of the water. This type of hydroplane
may 7 not develop any 7 cargo usefulness, but as a pleasure
craft it is going to boom for a certainty. The catamaran
structure makes for absolute safety, and Bellamy’s craft
showed that it could negotiate the sharpest of turns
when going at full speed.
* » * *
Tlie aeroplane begins to appear on other than
flying machines. An Italian motor-boat man now uses a
covered machine in which the roof is an inclined plane,
and when the craft gets properly going, that plane, it is
said, has a steadying effect, helps to lift the boat right to
the surface of the water, and so reduces the friction and
resistance of the fluid. The idea has also been applied to
bicycles, and by 7 exercising a lifting pressure the thing is
said to relieve the t,yres of much strain and weight. This
seems rather a tall yarn, as a man would require to get
up a fair speed before the plane would begin to exert
power ; and, anyhow, it is more than open to argument
if the resistance of the wind pressing on the plane would
not prove a greater resistance to the pedaller than the
surface of the King’s neglected highway 7. The same does
not apply to the motor-boat, which is driven by mechani-
cal power ; and the idea seems much more adaptable to
a motor-bike than to the ordinary jigger propelled by
meat power.
* * * *
The World Cycle Track Championship meeting
takes place this year in Copenhagen, capital of Denmark,
on the 15th, 19th and 22nd of August. Australia will be
represented by A. J. Clark, who has a first-class chance of
becoming champion of the world. Copenhagen is the
native place of the mighty Ellegaard, who has been
champion Heaven knows how many 7 years. Ellegaard is
the Australian’s most dangerous rival. Another almost
equally dangerous is the Frenchman, Poulain.
* * te *
There was a time when New York had a
monopoly of that horror, the six days’ team race, but
now Berlin has butted into the business. A German com-
bination has just spent £7500 in organising and carrying
out a similar atrocity ; and made much cash out of it.
That Floyd MacFarland is still mighty was demon-
strated by the fact that he and Moran, representing
the United States, won first place. The lack of
sleep play 7 ed up terribly 7 with some of the competi-
tors and their managers; apparently the managers
had almost as bad a time as the riders. Each team had
its track managers—generally 7 four of them, who relieved
one another —and special attendants to look after the
machines, and a number of detectives to watch the
tactics of the other riders on the track, and give notice
to their own team if sudden rushes were made. Robl’s
manager—apparently 7 he hadn’t four—having been awake
for 52 consecutive hours, went temporarily mad, while
Lucien Jacquelin staggered as though he had a heavy
cargo of whisky on board. Neither MacFarland nor Moran
showed the usual effects of lack of sleep ; they 7 seemed as
alert and watchful at the finish as at the start. They
were among the first to take on the oxygen dope, in-
haling quantities of the gas whenever they found sleep
overcoming* them. As the evil these sort of competitions
do is obvious, and the g*ood results are quite invisible,
there seems g*ood reason for their suppression.
* * * •
The S. A. Jockey Club put £43,000 through the
totalisator in its three-days’ Cup meeting. The commis-
sion retained, £4300, would nearly pay all the stake-
money, but the State Government collars a quarter of it;
still, the three-fourths which goes to the club is a nice
help. Racing booms in S.A., and the £43,000 is half as
much again as vvas taken two years ago. The Fisher
Stakes kept up its usual reputation for a big dividend —
£21145. for a sovereign on the winner, besides a consola-
tion of 245. to backers of the second. In the last 12
years this event has seven times paid over £2O on the
winner—twice over £6O ! Local owners took nearly all
the races, the luck being well divided. No horse won
more than one race; only one jockey won two ; and no
owner took (in stakes) more than £7OO.
* * * *
Sydney Tatt.’s Club hadn’t the luck last Satur-
day which was experienced three weeks before by the
despised and much less pretentious, though more vigor-
ously worked, similar show directly opposite in the same
street. The smaller Tatts. had fine weather and conse-
quently a substantial surplus. It was t’other way about
with the larger business. Though the constant rain and
resultant slippery course were against reckoning up
prospects on form, the weak-headed punter handed
his money over in heaps to the rapacious layer,
who betted “safe” on every race. Operations opened
disastrously for most people. Ancient Mainspring' (start-
ing 7 to 1 against) had the hurdles to himself over the
whole journey, and won by half a dozen lengths ; heavily-
supported Dinyah and Blue Streak were second and third.
Vylands, who shared favoritism with Dinyah, came a
cropper at the last jump, and, at the moment, seemed
to roll over and completely crush his rider R. Hoy-
sted. He was dragged from the mix, limp and
apparently lifeless; but as Tiik Bulletin went to
press St. Vincent’s Hospital reported him recovering.
Hoysted went through, perhaps, a more serious experi-
ence on the same course nearly 12 months ago. Another
facer for backers was Fille Fogi’s easy success in Flying
Handicap at odds of 8 and 10 to 1 against. So little did
trainer Burton think of the nag’s prospects, that he is
said to have specked a “ tenner ” where he would have
risked £5O otherwise. Master Foote’s track record gallop
earlier in the week must have landed him an easy winner
had it been repeated ; but it wasn’t. He pulled up second,
and the man with the bag- benefited handsomely in conse-
quence. Another track tip went awry in Winter
Stakes. Punters, remembering Black Buck’s form
at recent Ilawkesbury meeting, and knowing
that he beat Crofton decisively in a 9fur.
spin on Tuesday last, heaped coin on him till
“ threes” was the best price offered, yet Crofton won by
a length from Proportion, with Lancasterite (who hadn’t
been heard of in the betting) third, and Black Buck at
the other end of the field. The bitterness of the set
back was added to bv the fact that Crofton’s owner is a
Mo.
* # * *
Though Adelaide Cup day’s tote investments
(£17,144) are a record for that particular day, the meet-
ing’s total did not, as has been freely published, exceed
all previous figures. Ten years ago £45,178 went through
the machine. That burst broke up Wheat State race-
course gambling, and for long afterwards tote business
slumped. It only picked up again in the past two or
three years.
Already that brilliant Maoriland youngster
Provocation is announced certain to fulfil his A.J.O.
Derby engagement, arid jockey Oliver is said to have been
secured for the mount. Provocation is by Birkenhead
from Stepfeldt, and even now is the possessor of a re-
markable record which has brought his owner £2200 in
stakes.
* * ft *
The Australian XI. has made a good start in
England, and not the least pleasing feature is the eminent
success of the new men. Bardsley’s 219 and Ransford’s
174 against Essex are matters of joy to those who main-
tained that the “old brigade” could be done without.
In the three matches Bardsley has scored 421 runs for
three completed innings—a nice little average of 140'33.
Fast bowler Cotter seems to be striking trouble early.
Against Northampton he was no-balled no less than five
times ; and, although he has bagged the' wickets, this
liberal giving of runs to the enemy is exasperating. When
an Australian umpire no-balled Cotter in his ain countree,
the official was told to get his brains inspected. But the
action of the English referee suggests that the local man
was not far wrong.
E. P. Barbour, Sydney’s champion schoolboy
cricketer for the year, recently gilded the rose of his
fame by capturing the lawn tennis championship. It is
to be sincerely hoped that the youth’s success at sport
will not cause him to take a sudden dislike to useful
work.
* * * *
The inter-State Eight Oar Championship at
Brisbane was a gift to Tasmania, which walked away
from N.S. W. in the first quarter of a mile and was never
overtaken. The Ma State was right out of it, for shortly
after completing the first mile Victoria ranged up along-
side, then took second place, and went away in
pursuit of Tasmania. Although the Victorians reduced
the distance, they never had a hope, and after a most
unpleasant struggle in heavy rain the Tassies won by
a good length. Victoria was three lengths ahead of
N.S. W., which was another three stretches away from
Queensland, with S.A. away to the Devil in the tail. The
first two miles were covered in 11 minutes, but the last
stretch took eight minutes to itself; making the full
time for the course 19 minutes. The Victorian crew
was slow getting away, but when it did get going it got
so much lift into it that for a long while its chances
looked anything but hopeless.
However, N.S.W. found consolation in the
amateur sculling championship, in which four started,
Sout h and Westralia,being unrepresented. J. Towns, of
N.S.W., weighed 12st. ; Coverdale, of Tas.,llst. ; Dennis,
of Queensland, list. 41b. ; and Richards, of Vic., list.
Dennis started to make the pace a cracker from the start,
and cracked accordingly. Then Coverdale came with an
almighty rush and passed the struggling Queenslander.
But at the half-mile Towns came with a still almightier
rush and downed Coverdale, and stayed at the front to
the finish. He won by four lengths in 16Jmin.
**' * *
Webb’s challenge to Arnst to defend his title
has somewhat upset the apple-cart of English sculler
Barry. The young Englishman was somewhat slow in
closing with Arnst’s offer, and now Arnst announces that
if Barry is hankering for the title he must, as far as Arnst
is concerned, come to Maoriland after it. Under no con-
ditions will Arnst go to England. Before Webb challenged
him he would have gone if the race had been fixed up for
July, so that he could take part in the £5OO handicap ;
but as that is now impossible, Barry has missed the ’bus.
If he is successful against Webb, Arnst will go to Canada
in September, and meet Durnan in October.
***■*■
The Arnst-Webb struggle takes place on June
22. Both men are reported to be practically fit already,
so the training of them will be a delicate business if they
are to go to the starting line in the best of condition.
Although both principals are quiet enough, their parties
are fluting in a very high key. So far the Webb bar-
rackers seem to have reached a somewhat higher pitch
than Arnst’s. Neither Webb nor Arnst could flute to
save their lives.
* * * *
Quite a small boom in sculling in Sydney.
Pearce and Thoroughgood race at the end of the month ;
Sydney Kemp and Charlie Messenger in July, for £5O or
£lOO a-side, if they can raise it; Hagney (ex-cyclist) and
Felton for £5O, on a date to be agreed upon ; and, last but
not least exciting, Miss Gertie Lewis and Mrs. Hyde.
#■*•*■*
Proposed to bring to Australia the South
African athlete, Reg Walker. Walker is among the
first flight of the world’s amateurs. The State Amateur
Athletic Association is now counting its cash with a view
to seeing if the visit can be financed.
Proposed that the Davis Oup contest be shifted
from December to the latter end of October, so that the
visitors may have the benefit of a lower temperature.
Perhaps 1 Writer has a hazy recollection that some of
the hottest days he has struck have been located in
October ; and it is certain the grounds will plot then be
in such good condition.
The universal half holiday appears to be boom-
ing all branches of sport in Victoria, and on a recent
Saturday 315 uniformed athletes turned out under the
auspices of the Vic. Amateur Athletic Association, which
should be something near a record.
That howling joke which Wirth Bros, put up
the last night of the big circus in Sydney, when Pro-
fessor Stevenson and strong-man Mounier engaged in an
alleged all-in jiu-jitsu scrap, in which kicking, biting,
hitting, smacking, bashing, strangling and gouging were
all supposed to be allowed, has brought Byugoro Shima
into the field with a challenge to meet any man at jiu-
jitsu. Ruddygore, or whatever his name is, explains that
under correct Japanese rules biting, gouging and other
offensive tactics are not allowed ; but he is perfectly
willing to allow the other bloke to indulge,in them as
long as he gives due notice thereof. In any case, Ruddy
will not use any of those methods himself, but cheer-
fully undertakes to show that he can beat the man who
does. He will struggle for any sum the other man likes
to put up ; and only requires 14 days’ notice. If Ruddy-
gore can rastle half as well as he can challenge, things
should be willing. The challenge is likely to be accepted.
Frank Thorn, alleged featherweight champion
of Australia, has been kicking up a tremendous fuss since
referee Paddy Basto blew him out on points in his match
with Tom Jones, in Melbourne. For quite a while Francis
had it all his own way, but on Sunday last Thomas butted
into publicity with a courteous remark that, although it
was quite possible Patrick, the referee, was wrong, all the
sporting scribes of the Melbourne papers who reported
the alleged battle agreed that Jones had the best of what-
ever there was in the shape of a scrap. Thorn’s reply is
a cheerful offer to put a head on Jones when and where
the latter likes, barring the establishment where Mr.
Basto presides, for a side wager of £5O. In the mean-
time, Thorn’s featherweight championship is in some
doubt. He was featbenveight champion when he entered
the ring, but he came out of it a beaten man. Question :
Did he lose his championship? He says no, as they
signed to fight at 9st. 41b., and the limit .for a feather-
weight is 9st. So, as they w'ere fighting at lightweight
poundage, the featherweight championship was never at
stake ; especially as it was not mentioned in the articles
of combat. It all sounds very legal and very convincing,
and probably Thorn is right; but, anyhow, it will be all
the same in a hundred years ; and the chances are that
within fifty years Thorn won’t care a hang whether he lost
his topknot or otherwise.
There was a profuse allowance of scrap at the
Melbourne Athletic Pavilion on the 10th, when 44 rounds
of solid polthog were served out to a crowded and
tumultuous coliseum. The result proved that an audi-
ence of boxing patrons can be given too much punch.
When about 35 rounds of dull thud had passed, the people
were drifting out. .Soldier Rogers beat Bull Williams,
the neatest figure in the Australian ring, in 15 rounds,
which were all fight. Douglas and Duffy, bantams,
scrapped earnestly, and sustained mutual damage during
nine rounds, w'hen the former was put out, and lingered
in a state of coma for fully five minutes. Ted Whiting v.
Jo Dee (welters) followed, and went 20 rounds, with
Whiting always delivering the goods. Lee is a tall, slim
concoction of fencing wire and tanned hippopotamus
hide, and was still receiving personal injury with a care-
less air when the gong man hit a finish. Whiting was
declared winner on dots.
Johnson has been weeping again about the
want of respect with which he was treated in Australia.
This continent flatly refused to pour adulation over him,
and Johnson is sore about it. He states that the “better
classes” treated him “properly,” but the riff-raff were,
he says, distinctly hostile. Asked if it were true that he
gave Burns the double cross, he snorted strenuously. He
was never, he said, approached either directly or in-
directly by Burns or anyone representing him with any
inducement to go down on Boxing Day. It would be
extremely interesting to know the cause of the persistent
rumor about Burns having made approaches to Murky
Ham.
* - * * *
If Jem Mace’s yarn about his profits, proceeds,
and emoluments is e.orrect, there were fortunes made out
of the bruising ring long before O’Hagen-O’Brien came
along with his revelation and paved the way for a greater
financier —even Tahmmy. Mace recently told a London
interviewer that, one way and another, he had taken over
£250,000 out of the prize-ring. Mace was 18 when he first
put ’em up in a business sense, and he gave his age as 78
when he applied for the old-age pension recently. Which
means that he took a sum equal to £4166 for
each year since he went into the scrapping industry.
Probably much of it was made by backing himself. His
record was marvellous : 500 fights and three defeats—
which is tolerably amazing. So practically he made £5OO
out of every scrap, win, lose or draw. Apparently what
Jem wanted was a partner who earned a creditable crust
by managing a trustee co. to look after the investment
of the money. Exact’y how he got through the cash has
not been stated. He couldn’t have lost it backing him-
self ; so, presumably, he backed other pugs and went
down in the betting ring. But, ye gods, what a reflection
on civilisation —£250,000 made by bashing other men’s
faces!
(Continued on page 35.)


the bdeal winter resort-
Hydro-Majestic and Hotel
Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains.
3500 ft. above sea level, and just 2J hours’ railway journey from Sydney.
MOTORS DAILY TO JENOLAN CAVES.
Here, housed in a palatial Hotel and with exquisite scenic environments, one can
realise the Best Winter Holiday.
Telephone 29 Katoomba; or call up CITY OFFICE, 42 CASTLEREAGH STREET, Telephone 4349.
THE SORE CURE FOR SKIN INJURIES.
&
5 UMVJM.
V=.:-"
j y
*■'
/"
//■
%
r/f/
/.//
/;////
9*
I
■M
v^?y!
■SA-VO-LA* in a few words is best described
as “the Greatest Skin Healer of the Century.”
All medical experts declare the great skin salve, SA-YO-LA to be the most
reliable of skin doctors, and invaluable to all persons in every grade of life
wherever-accidents may happen. It is a disinfectant, antidote to blood poison,
and a skin-healer combined. It prevents blood poison arising from sores,
wounds, cuts, abrasions, etc., by reducing heat and inflammation and leaving
the injured parts soft, sweet, and cool. Workers in factories, warehouses,
or on farms, cattle-sheds, sheep-stations, mining camps or shearing sheds,
should have SA-VO-LA always handy, because it heals magically.
SA-VO-LA IS THE POGKET SKIM DOCTOR FOR ALL SKIM ILLS.
a sure cur ? f° r cuts, sores (chronic or acute), barcoo, rash, itch, burns, scalds, festers,
chilblains, sun-burns, pimples, eczema, skin-cracks, whitlow, scalp sores in children, ulcers, piles,
muscular rheumatism, lumbago, boils, nerve pains, chapped hinds, etc.
For Piles it is a most remarkable cure, and, when applied to the part, should be slightly heated to
reduce the balm to a liquid, then saturate a piece of cotton wool, or some other soft material, and
apply. Stubborn cases have been cured in this way.
SA-VO-LA may be obtained of all chemists and grocers, price 1/6 the pot, or 3/6 large size,
containing four times the quantity. If not supplied locally, send direct for a pot, post free on
receipt of price.
The ‘Ray’ Chemical Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney, n.s.w.
FIT YOUR CAR WITH
Tyres
You certainly could not do better —and you probably
would do worse.
That's what the World's Records all
prove, anyway.
7k
-
/
/
:r,ue>E>E.R- C2*** U^.
226 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE;
234 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY ; 10 McHenry Street, ADELAIDE;
also at PERTH, HOBART, BRISBANE.
THIN WEAK, NERVOUS, SCRAGGY,
111111, FLAT-CHESTED, RUN-DOWN
and UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If you want to add flesh, be made
plump, strong, healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of
“MIRACULA” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
j?AT PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
1 * themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly enjoy GOOD HEALTH.
Our NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
FAT quickly, safely, and per-
manentlv. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
RRY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from—
DONALD ROSS & CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
The Leading Veterinary
Supply Store.
SIT TIGHT!
when you get hold of a good thing—and sit tight when
you’re on a first-class machine—for they’re scarce.
B. and B. CYCLES
are guaranteed for 12 months—and fitted with the best
tyres—£ll—with free wheel, and back rim brake or
coaster hub, 20s. extra.
BENNETT « BARKELL,
Ask us to send you a Catalogue.
Mention this paper when writing-.
The Largest Cvcle-buildin
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
INVEST IN A “PLUM” RAZOR.
And we guarantee you a quick, easy shave every morning, a
chin like velvet afterwards, and a blade that will always cut
clean and keep right on doing it.
THE “PLUM” RAZOR,
Post Free anywhere in the World.
10/6
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving: Soap, 6d
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street,
Established 25 Years.
Sydney.
AN INVESTMENT FOR PASTORALISTS.
-COMBING MILLS,
BOTANY, N.S.W.
F. W. HUGHES, LiniTED.
FIRST ISSUE OF 150,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
50,000 Shares available for Subscription.
Payable, ss. on application, and the balance by easy instalments, if desired.
Directors:
P. H. MORTON, F. D. McM ASTER, PETER LESLIE,
F. Y. WILSON, F. W. HUGHES.
The above Company has acquired the business carried on by F. W. HUGHES & CO.
LIMITED, at the WATER RESERVE. BOTANY, of WOOL-COMBING WOtTL-
SCOURING, TATWING GLUE, GELATINE and SOAP-MAKING, etc. About ONE
MILLION SHEEPSKINS and the equivalent of 25,000 bales of GREASY WOOL were
treated at the Company’s Works during the last 12 months.
A BONUS OF £50,000 has been passed by the Federal Parliament for “ Wooltops—
combed wool—exported from Australia.” F. W. HUGHES and CO., LIMITED, is the only
firm in the Commonwealth engaged in the Manufacture of Tops for exportation. ’
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES to be made at the BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. auoikalasia,
SOLICriORS^ TUS and all information may be Stained from the COMPANY’S
WILSON and HARRIOTT,
3 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Figures are dangerous things. During
some recent proceedings in a Maoriland Arbitra-
tion Court, one witness for the employers pro-
ceeded to knock the stuffing out of the men’s case
by pouring out figures. What the employers ob-
jected to, he explained, was not a minimum wage,
but having to pay a competent man’s minimum
wage to a man who wasn’t competent. He had a
return showing the enormously high proportion of
incompetent men. Smith employed so many, and
only 5 per cent, were competent in the real sense
of the term. Brown employed more; and,
although the men were specially picked, only 10
per cent, were competent. In the smaller shops,
where the men could not be picked, the pro-
portion of competents was still lower. As an
instance, there was Jones ; he employed 25 men,
and only 2 per cent, were competent. Then the
Judge leaned back w'earily. “ One moment,” he
interrupted, “How many men does Jones
employ?” “Twenty-five, yeronor! ” “And
only 2 per cent, are competent?” “That’s
it, yeronor. Jones is an expert, an’ gave a lot of
attention to working out these statistics. No
doubt about the accuracy, yeronor.” “ H’m 1 ”
said the Judge, “ but 2 per cent, of 25 is one-half
man—now which half of which man is com-
petent?” Collapse of the statistical witness.
Still, his figures were just as reliable as a lot of
those which appear in at least one Sydney “great
“Lorenz”: Some weird characters have
struggled into the public eye in connection with
the Deadhorse kick-up, but methinks the absolute
.Limit, the Champ, and the Dead Finish of the
fooVo r pAa t r , ' e o ia , to be found in one who writes
to Sydney Telegraph under the signa-
ture v\ .S.K.” He implores therein the im-
rnehate establishment of a “King’s Shilling
-b unci as a means of booming Dreadnausea, and he
wmds up this way : “I am forwarding 20s. to the
n’r> a a * ! and a like amount to the
L.I.S. at Scone. To me the former place
is home ; the hitter, my peaceful ahidinq
place, by the grace of God and our King .”
He reads like some ultra-grateful recipient ,of
Maundy money,” or eke like one who has been
’touched” successfully for “King’s Evil.” He
is wasted in these democratic times. He belongs
by rights to the early Plantaganet period. How
ne would have salivated the baronial paw that
nutig him a bone “at meat.” How he would have
gyrated and held his heaving sides when his
master deigned to jest. Ay, marry, I’ll warrant
he would have done these worm-like things right
sinuously. And now he wants to start a shilling
fund for a Dreadnought! If all Australia gave Is.
per head, the result would be about £210,000.
And the great ironclad Deadhorse costs nearly
ten times that sum.
“ Lantana ” writes :
Archdeacon (late Canon) Nash is still an unwilling 1
cause of strife among kirk-frequenters. His immortal
case caused a mass of epistolary trouble recently between
Archbishop Clarke and Bishop Pain, of Gippsland, Bishop
Pain appointed the ecclesiastical storm-centre Archdeacon
of Sale without first consulting the synod of his diocese.
A month or so passed during which Archbishop Clarke
brooded darkly on the matter, and then he uprose and
expressed his disapproval. The Arch, argued that the
Bishop’s step in making Gnash Archdeacon of Sale
amounted to a public criticism of his (the Arch’s)
action in not re-appointing the much-badgered sky
pilot to Geelong. He suggested that Bishop Pain
and the malcontents of Christ Church, Geelong, were
conspiring to “ publicly criticise” crime that is
regarded among pietists as particularly heinous and
damnable. Bishop Pain countered with emphatic denials
all round. There for the present the matter rests. But
it is not dead. In fact, it is not even sleeping. The
supporters of Gnash are waiting the coming appointment
of an Archbishop of Sydney with the eagerness of
leashed bloodhounds. In certain circumstances they will
revive the case with mighty energy. At present it looks
as though the new Archbishop of Sydney will be either
Bishop Pain, Archbishop Clarke, or Bishop Langley of
Bendigo. If Bishop Pain is elected both Archbishop of.
Sydney and Primate of Australia, the believers in the
absolute innocence of Gnash will appeal to him as Primate
against the Archbishop’s decision, and, in all likelihood,
will score a handsome win. And even if they don’t, they
will achieve that hot and stirring old time that so strongly
appeals to the spiritual nature.
“ Melba ” writes :
The Melbourne A.N.A. committee asked Premier
Murray to preside at an entertainment in connection
with their musical and literary competitions the other
day. At the finish of the proceedings Murray distributed
the prizes. And, in doing so, he made a very distressing
exhibition of himself indeed. He delivered a speech to
each of the thirty prize-winners, and jested in Reid-like
fashion between whiles. Onepretty girl winner was invited
to have a few quiet words with him in private. Another
he regretted having to meet inside, instead of outside,
the hall. A male appeared to claim a prize for a duet.
“No more girls?” asked Murray dolefully; and then,
amid shrieks of amusement, he offered to share the
boodle with the duet winner and keep it dark from his
mate. When a prize was unclaimed he would playfully
attempt to pocket it. The audience thought the per-
formance screamingly funny, but in the present scribe it
aroused dismal thoughts. Does a Victorian Premier
always have to be a clown ? Can’t he hang on to his job
unless he apes Tommy'Bent? Even a State Fright Pre-
mier should approximate in dignity to the standard, set
by the average backblocks mayor ; and the latter hesi-
tates, almost invariably, to stand on his head for the
delectation of his town council.


This is THE STORE that is ALWAYS BUSY
And we are looking forward to more business; and, what is more to the point, we are preparing for it. Eecently we opened up a New Showroom, enabling
to serve more customers and give better service. You’ll find our prices are as low as it is possible to make them.
SasgSK
A. SAUNDERS.
OPERA BAG, Light Seal
Grained Leather, with
Mirror at bottom, 10/6-
Other styles: Real Black
Seal, 17/6. Fancy Leath-
ers: 10/6, 12/6, -17/6.-- -
DO YOUR SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
Our facilities for taking good care of coun-
try customers were never better, and we
guarantee prompt and satisfactory service
through our Up-to-date Mail Order Depart-
ment. We’ll send, you any article on this
page, carriage free to your address. '
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S COMPANION, Nickel-mounted
Tobacco Jar and Glass ’mid 4 pipes, mounted
on Cedar Base. ' 20/-
Other- Styles, id/ti, 27/6, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S PIPE RACK and TOBACCO JAR, made
in Oak, 2 Plated Ash Trays, to hold 4 Pipes, Fancy
China Tobacco Jar,
21/-
Other-Styles, 14/6, 15/, 20/, 22/6, 25/, up to 55/.
YOU NEED OUR ILLUS-
TRATED CATALOGUE
if you want to make a wise selection. It
illustrates all the Newest Designs in Watches,
Clocks, Jewellery, Silver-Plate, Leather and
Optical Goods, and is yours for the asking.
Write for a copy to-day. You’ll have a copy
by return post.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or OPERA
GLASSES, Highly Finish-
ed, Achromatic Lenses,
Clear Definition, in Lea-
ther Case and Sling,
30/-
Higher Power, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco PEGGY BAG, Extra Well Finished,
Silk Sewn, Strong Frame, 7/'(>.
Other' Styles, S/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, to
55/, in Calf, Crocodile, Seal, Pan Calf, and
Beaver Calf.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure. Silver Cedar PENCIL, Hand-chased, Superior
Quality, 4/6-
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, up to 12/6. .
C-.'t'
H
a
, . A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-mounted HAIR BRUSH, Richly Embossed, Good
.Quality Bristle, 5/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6. Extra Quality, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION INKSTAND, Finest English Oak,
with Drawer, Richly Polished, Pure Silver-plated
-Mounts, Plain Crystal Glass Bottles, £4/10/.
Smaller, £3/10/. Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/,
50/, 55/, 60/, 70/.
■ . .
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel-plated NUT-CRACKERS, Strongly Made,
1/6
Other .Style in Bright Steel, 1/,
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Ebonized Nickel-mounted CLOTH BRUSH, 12in long,
with Best Black Bristles, 10/6-
Military HAIR BRUSH to Match, S/6.
I A. SAUNDERS.
; PATENT CORK, to Fit Any
Bottle, best English make, 6d.
Porcelain Cap, with Brass Screw.
1/3. With Silver-plated Cap and
Screw, Extra, Quality, 3/6.
‘ ‘ A. SAUNDERS.
PUCK FOUNTAIN* PEN, Vulcanite iHandle, 14ct Gold Nio, broad, medium, and fine pointed nibs,
lar flow ot.ink. No .leaking-. .. Always .ready. 4/4>. The Tatler, 4/6; “Red Cross”'Stylo, 4/; “Red
Fountain Pen, 4/; Keystone Fountain Pen, 4/6; Paul iR Wirt: Pen, 8/6; Olive Branch Stylo, 3/; Olive
F. Pen, 4/6. Silver-mounted, 15/. All Silver, 20/. Gold-mounted, 20/. -
A regu-
Cross”
Branch
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP, Solid
Silver, U/6- Extra Heavy,
3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bulhmen’s Field BINOCULAR,
High Range of Power, vyitli Clear
Definition, Black Morocco Covered,
Solid Leather Case and Straps,
35/
Higher Powers, 40/, 45/, 50/, 55/,
'6O/, 70/, 80/.
T?
A. SAUNDERS.
Rectangular READING-
GLASS, , Suitable for All
Sights, 2/6, S/6, 4/, 4/6, 5/6, '
6/6, 7/1?. ' In Round Lense,
1/6, 2/6; 3/, 3/6,' 4/. ’
A. SAUNDERS.
Torpedo 1 Collapsible COL-
LAR BOX, in Real Pigskin,
Other Styles, in Seal, 7/6.
GENT.’S OUTFIT, Straight-grain Leather, Superior
Finish, Best Quality Fittings, Suitable for Presentation,
£5/5/.
Other Styles, £3, £4/10/, : .£js, £5/10/, £6, £7, £7/10/.
I A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-plated Nickel TEA-
STRAINER, 2/6- Other
Styles, 3/6, 4/6; 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Buckskin TOBACCO POUCH,
Sterling Silver Shield,
Rubber-lined, 4/6-
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
8/6, 10/. Better Grades, with
Gold Shield, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE CASE, Solid Silver,
Richly Engraved, to
hold 10 Cigarettes,
15/6.
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ebonised Nickel-mounted MILI
in Real Ebony, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6,
TARY BRUSH, 8/6- Other Styles,
15/, 17/6. Oases to f hold 2 Brushes, _
2/6 extra.
a
m
Qr^jjeY
Wr.
in
•A. SAUNDERS. ' • ' •
ANEROID BAROMETER, nrved
Walnut. Case,, Highly Finished,
Sensitive Movement. Guaranteed
Correct. 20/:
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6,' 20/:
Half-registering Ther
mometer, metal case,
8/6, 10/6; wooden case,
S/6, 5/; ordinary, styles
9d, 1/, 1/6, 1/9, 2/,
2/6', 3/6, 4/6. .
SJ
m
A. SAUNDERS. |
CUTLERY CANTEEN, in Oak, Best Sheffield Manufacture, lined in Bln-
Cloth, containing -.J-dozen Xylonite Table Knives, J-dozen Xylonite "Dessert
Knives, Carving Knife,' Fork,' and Steel, with Sterling Silver Ferrules, 2 Silver-
plated Knife Rests;
£.3/0/0-
Other Styles, 65/, 80/, 90/, 100/; up to .£20.. .
Sol. Silv. -plated
Chatelaine Spec.
Case, 10/6, 32/6.
Leather case, Sil.
Mtd., 12/6, 15/,
17/6, 20/. Elec.-
plate Mts., 2/G,
3/, 4/, 4/6, 5/,
6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
.Morocco MUSIC-CASE, London Made, Well Finished,
8/0.
Other Styles, in Rolls and Cases, 5/, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6.
■
A. SAUNDERS.
IPE RACK, in British Oak, to hold 6 Pipes, Silver-
plated Shield, 7/6- To hold 4 Pipes, {}/{s.
Other Styles, 8/6, 9/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 22/6, 25/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith, <&
Consulting Optician.
A.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S. W.


The PLEASANT PASTIME of PHOTOGRAPHY
Teaching the Young Idea how to Shoot .
One of the most profitable and pleasant pastimes is undoubtedly photography, which
is suited alike to both sexes, old or young. It enables you to get records of your
travels, sports, friends, children, and the hundred and one other interests with which
you are connected, and supplies interesting occupation for your leisure hours.
WE briefly describe here a few of the famous Premo Cameras.
They are compact, simple and durable, give wonderful results
on all classes of work, and are so made that they will accom-
modate the Premo Film Pack as well as plates.
This is a marked advantage to the owner, who practically has the
equivalent of two cameras—plate and film. Made by the Eastman
Company, the Premos are thoroughly reliable, being built to give lasting
and good service. For other styles than those we mention, we refer
you to the Premo Catalogue, which will be sent post free on request.
Call on us if you possibly can.
Pony Premo No. 1
Absolutely the best value in a 4 x 5 plate camera
ever offered at the price. It is strongly made, all
metal parts are nickelled, the lens is an excellent
R.R., and the covering of grain leather.
It has rising and falling front, reversible
brilliant finder, single valve automatic shutter,
and weighs but 240 z.
The price of the camera, complete with case
and one double plate-holder, is
£2 tOs.
Pony Premo N? . 2
This has the same general charact* .sties as the
Pony Premo No. 1. but has the add .tonal advan-
tage of reversible back —an import nt considera-
tion to many amateurs. The back' mbe instantly
reversed for horizontal or vertical .ictur.es, so that
it is not necessary to change the position of the
camera itself for either style of pictures.
This model can be supplied in two sizes, as
follows ' Bxl j-ptote
£3 £3 17s. 6d.
Complete with case and 1 double plate-holder.
Pony Premo No . 3
This camera, has all the advantages of the pre-
ceding models, with the addition of rack and
pinion focussing attachment, longer extension,
and double valve automatic shutter.
These advantages make the instrument a very
desirable one for those amateurs wishing for a
camera with broad scope of work at moderate
price.
Made in two sizes :
5x4 J-plate
£4 5s - £5 lOs.
With case and 1 double plate-holder.
Pony Premo Mo. 4
Phis Camera is designed for a wider range of work
than its predecessors. It is provided with addi-
tional equipment of swing hack, planatogmph
lens and the new automatic standard clamp. The
lens is the best obtainable outside anastigmats.
The camera box is of leather covered mahogany,
with rack and pinion on the bed for fine focussing.
It has the rising and falling front, a hooded
brilliant reversible finder, and two tripod sockets.
Made in two sizes :
5x4 plate
£5 £6 15s.
With case and 1 double plate-holder.
The postage on any of these Cameras will be 1/9 in the State; 2/8 Inter-State.
BaKer & Rouse Propty. Ltd.,
375 & 377 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “ THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
So/e Agents for
Australian Kodak Ltd.
REMOVE GRAVEL & KIDNEY DISORDERS.
Medical Opinion
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN writes:
“ Knock, Ennis,
“ co. Clare, Ireland.
“ Sirs, —I have recommended
Kntnow’s Powder to several
lady patients, who approve of
it greatly. An aged clergyman
to whom I recommended Kut-
now’s Powder tells me he finds
it both effective and agreeable.”
Dr. LEON BLANC writes:
(Consulting Physician at Aix=les=Bains, etc.)
“ Aix-les-Bains, June 7.
“ Dear Sirs, —Many thanks
for Kutnow’s Powder you sent
me for the Thermal Hospital.
It has proved equally beneficial
for my Rheumatic and Gouty
Patients, both in the Hospital
as well as for those patients
taking the Aix-les-Bains cure.”
KUTNOW’S
Removes the POISON.
If you ever experience weight and discomfort after
eating, a fueling of abnormal fulness or emptiness,
heartburn, flatulence, acrid and bitter taste in the
mouth, furred tongue, headache, pain in the, back
or in the right shoulder, impaired 1 eyesight, palpi-
tation, irritability, neuralgia, sluggish liver, con-
stipation, or turbid deposits, you may know that it
is; time to take Kutnow’s Powder, which not only
dissolves but also eliminates all excessive uric acid
and other poisonous deposits from the system.
Substitutes will Ruin your Health.
... ; iy.it lr.ii ... - , ••
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all
conscientious chemists throughout the World.
The kidneys require very delicate .'tVeatmcnt,, and
you must therefore be careful to avoid spurious
substitutes, which frequently cause irreparable
injury; Insist on seeing; that the; carton bears the
fac-simile signature, 4 S Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and
the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” which also appear on the label, on- the
bottle. You then
Get Genuine Kutnow’s.
So/e Proprietors :
3. Kutnow & Co., Ltd., 41 Farr/ngdon Road, London, E.C.
Public Approval
A CLERGYMAN’S WIFE writes:
“ Brayton, Carlisle,
“ March 9, 1908.
“ Sirs, —Thank you for your
bottle of Kutnow’s Powder,
.which I fincPvery efficacious,
pleasant, and agreeable to take.
“A. Potts.”
Nurse CROSS writes;
“ 2 Percy Road,
“ Wrexham.
?
“ Sirs,—Some five years ago I
had an acute attack of nephritis
(inflammation of the kidneys),
and my doctor advised Harro-
gate waters. After trying them
for some time with very little
result, the doctor suggested
giving Kutnow's Powder atrial,
with such excellent result that
in a short time I felt very
much better. I continued
taking it regularly every other
day for two years, and consider
it worked an entire cure.”


When vour stomach’s all wrong:, so are you ;
When your bowels will not act you feel “ blue.”
There’s a safe cure for this,
Turning- niis’rv to bliss—
Take a Pill Laxo-Tonio or two.
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, 10£d. and Is. 6d.*
“Mignon”
“Carette”
“Leclaire’*
HTHESE are the new brands made
especially for us in France to
replace the old lines of Bonnefoi,
Jossefor and Merlier. They will be
found exactly the same in cut as the
old favorites, but of better quality skin,
GLOVES
are a fad with us —we strive to give
every woman absolute satisfaction. Our
prices for these new brands:
u MIGNON ” —4-button Suede Glove,
in White, Black, Champagne, Beaver,
Brown or Grey, 4/11.
“ CARETTE a 4-button Pique
Sewn Suede Glove, in Black, Beaver,
Slate and Fawn shades, 5/11.
“ LECLAIRE ” a 4-button Suede
Glove, in White, Black, Biscuit, Beaver
and Slate, 6/6.
FINNEY, ISLES
& Co. Limited,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN
BANANA LAND.
“Prosper Freshfield ” writes from Bris-
bane about a strange female :
Strange are the ways of the board-and-residence lady,
f had no sooner told one of them that I wanted a sitting-
room as well as a bedroom than she flared up with :
“This has always been a respectable house, and I
mean to keep it respectable. My name is before the
public".” ' I assured her that I had no objection to her
name being before the public—she could have it
on the hoardings so far as I was concerned —but
what had that to do with my sitting-room? “Oh,
that’s all very well,” she said. “I won’t have any man
cornin’ here insultin’ me by askin’ for sittin’-rooms. My
name is before the public.” I asserted that she could
have her name —which was Jones —facing the dawn on
the foreshores if she liked, but what had the location of
her highly-respectable appellation to do with sitting-
rooms? More flare-up. It took fourteen minutes’
persuasive eloquence, punctuated by thirty-seven
interjections of the fact that her name was
before the public, to convince her that I was
no); trying to —pull her leg, I was going to say, but the
phrase is altogether too shocking for a lady whose name
is ; in the situation aforesaid. Eventually she became
sufficiently pacified to tell me that the reason agentleman
couldn’t have a sittin’-room was because in that case he
might have ladies visitin’ him, and her name was before
the public. If a gentleman was half of a married couple,
he could have a sittin’-room and ladies visitin’; but only
if his good lady was present, for her (the speaker’s) name
was before the public. She admitted that a gentleman
might want a sittin’-room just to escape sitting in a room
containing a continual vista of bed, but her name was
before the public. And she was sorry—er, glad—that I
thought her place so moral that I’d want to consider well
before making absolute arrangements, but her name was
before the pubilo. I’ve been looking for the name ever
since, but I haven’t seen it even on a jam-tin.
The Mountain Torrent.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM many a fountain
And soakage wide
On the rain-wooing mountain
The waters glide.
Like serpents entwining
The roots of trees,
Their forces combining,
They race for the leas.
E’er downward, and veering
Now south, now east,
Complaining and cheering,
They froth like yeast.
O’er ledges they tumble,
Down steeps they pour.
And gurgle and rumble,
And loudly roar.
To a swirling pool under
The lofty cone,
A dozen streams thunder
And form in one.
With spray it bespatters
The maiden-hair,
And it leaps up and shatters
The spider’s lair.
Through marvellous changes '
It rolls along,
While it sings to the ranges
Its lulling song.
It purrs to the cattle,
It laughs thro’ the dell,
And it greets with its prattle
The sweet blue bell.
With delicate fingers .
It bathes the wings
Of the wagtail that lingers
O’er it and sings.
It plays with the grasses,
It toys with the frond,
And bestows on the lasses
Caresses fond.
Through green valleys gleaming
Its breadth extends
Till, sluggishly dreaming,
It seaward trends.
There afoot and by saddle.
Through flowerful wavs,
Come the children to paddle
On sunny days.
The frolicsome laughter
Of lad and lass
Doth linger long after
The waters pass.
And the torrent grown sober
And wise in June,
From the romp of October,
Thus shapes its tune :
“ While free from all sadness,
Child, laugh and play,
For youth and its gladness
Will pass away.
“ Like you, I went dancing
With gladsome song,
And purling and prancing
The whole day long.
“Now with a dull motion
I drift to sea
As will you to the ocean
Eternity.
“Then gambol ere trouble
Upon you stream ;
For your youth’s but a bubble,
Your life a dream.”
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 15, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Alfred and Mrs. Cowley have issued invitations
for an At-Home at Silky Oaks on June 3 in honor
of daughter Heather’s approaching marriage with
Mr. Station-owner Gall.
Now that the date of their departure draws
nigh, the Chelmsfords are in danger of being
buried beneath an avalanche of farewell functions.
First comes the reception of her Ex. by the
Mayoress, Mrs. Thomas Wilson, on Friday the
21st. Her Ex. will generally shake the hand of
the people who subscribed to the souvenir, and
then that bauble will be glued upon the departing
vice-royalty.
Next, the Government will dine his Ex., and
after all the hard things that Kidston and co.
said at his expense, the idea is rather humorous.
To be logical, “Wullie” ought, when proposing
the health of the enemy, to administer some sound
parting ad vice of a constitutional nature, but the
“strong man ” of 17 months has become strangely
malleable of late. He wouldn’t, at the present
time, offer disagreeable advice to the domestic
cat.
Later on the Queensland Clubbers will feed the;
departing guest, and when her Ladyship has
opened the Milk Institute, bidden farewell to five
different committees, and gone to Mrs. Gilbert
Wilson’s recital, she will be about ready for rest
and change.
Our sweetest contralto, Lena Hammond, whose
work at the recent Liedertafel concert was right
up to standard, is talking of a Southern holiday.
I hope you will have an opportunity to sample
her vocal efforts, and will find them good.
An adjacent town has enjoyed_ a domestic sen-
sation. Within its limits lives a young dentist,
and ho possesses a brace of parents who strove
to safeguard their tooth-drawing lamb. The cause
proper of the upheaval is a charming little hand-
maiden, who of late has suffered so severely with
ALFRED'S TRAIN OF
ARGUMENT.
Mr. Deakin quite agreed
that they must not borrow
for old-asre pensions. 'There
was, therefore, the only other
alternative left. They must
tax.
A VOICE: “ What is your
view of the land-tax?”
Mr. Deakin said he was not going to he drawn off the
train of his argument.
Report of MR. DEAKIN'S speech at Toowoomba (Q.).
her teeth that she had to have them attended to
regularly at all sorts of hours. The news leaked
or crawled out, and ma set a detective to watch.
On his evidence an organised raid was planned.
At a given signal, parents and ’tec rushed the
surgery, and found a charming patient en des-
habille. IShe said she had been undergoing tortures
in the chair. Then ma got excited, and stormed.
Pa got more so, and threatened. Son boiled right
over, and defied. Patient did none of these
things. She merely armed herself with the
tongs, and went for the family, and smote hard
and often and tremendous. At latest the house-
hold was just beginning to get about again on
crutches.
Lady Chelmsford presided at a long and dreary
annual meeting of the local creche and kinder-
garten on Thursday. Home Secretary Joey Bell,
Lvttleton Groom (ex-Pederal Attorney-General),
and a long-winded lady named Arm old from down
your way talked themselves blind and the audi-
ence asleep on the subject of training the young.
The young aforesaid were called in to give’ an ex-
hibition, and did so at the top of their voices.
They had to be forcibly removed. One of the
exhibits wound itself round the legs of the im-
maculate Verney (attracted,, no doubt, by his
song-and-dance socks).
Mrs. Henry Dobson, all smiles and in most be-
coming clothes, spent a day here on her way to
join the Canadian steamer Makura en route for
the Toronto She Council shivoo. After a lunch
by the executive, she purririgly allowed herself to
be nominated to represent Queensland (the local
shes having jibbed at the eleventh hour). Mrs.
Dobson was accompanied by two ladies from Vic-
toria and Tasmania, whose wisdom, judging from
their clothes, must be as that of Solomon. She
spoke in horrified tones of Maud Allan’s Salome
dances, and urged all womanhood to draw the line
at a costume which sounded, by her account, like
a> cross between a very shrunk cam isolb and a lost
bathing costume.
Like a bolt from the blue has Magistrate
Ranking’s report on the liquor laws of
“God’s own country” fallen upon the local
temperance devotees. Brisbane’s chief magis-
trate, having wandered through the No
License districts of Maoriland, brings back a
woeful tale of drinking in the homes and sly grog
shops, and generally advises us to go slow. In
the ruin of their hopes, the ladies of theW.C.T.U.
and the gents, of the M.U.1.0.0.F., are said to
be making beasts of themselves on cold tea. It
was the women who ran Maoriland into the
water cart —but, to judge by the latest statistics
here, there are some solid skirted upholders of
Bung and Co.
The weather clerk is behaving like a beast. He
selected the afternoon devoted to the inter-State
eights for a deluge, and the result is that ruin
stares the local Association in the face, and the
wolf—a very wet animal, too is at the door. The
motor-boat parties were, for the most part, better
off than the land spectators, but the thickness of
the shower obscured the boats until within 100yds.
of the winning post.
Duke Stewart, under whose band we have
waltzed for years past, struck his final chord sud-
denly on Friday morning. Kindly, affable old
Duke was a very embodiment of tact. He was
noticeably out of sorts on Tuesday evening last,
and only struggled through the Rowing Asso.
programme with difficulty. A curious incident
in connection with his passing was the fact that
on the previous day he handed a table of his
winter engagements to a friend, and across it was
written in pencil, “ My last list.”
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
The Australian timber import trade flour-
ishes in its dealings with Oregon, Columbia and
other timber centres across the great Pacific Wet,
where 80 per cent, of the labor employed is cheap
and colored and nasty. Similarly the milling
industry of North Queensland, where there are
belts of tree country equal to anything in the
world, languishes. Why? Oregon pine, a com-
petitor against all classes of Australian woods,
can be freighted to Melbourne from Vancouver at
80s. per 1000 super, feet, while the freight from
Atherton (North Queensland) to Melbourne is
£4lss. Further, Canadian and U.S. timber people
pay their serfs from 3s. to 3s. 6d. per day.
If the Australian industry is to hold its own
against the produce of-what is practically slave-
labor, it is time to much increase the duty on Oregon
pine. Next, there should be some way of breaking
down the monopoly wlrch rms cmst.al freights up
so high that you can <>nlv roof of them
with a telescope, and 'k«-><•• .s lur ,i so high that, if
the final or ultimate or ,i. q >■ a-r i >t the 955. takes
fire, it is impossible to squ . t \v.,ur up far enough
to put it out.
“ Mallarapoonie ” : One of the climatic
peculiarities of the great nor’-west Queensland
mineral belt is the aggravation caused by the
sun’s rays beating on a combination of minerals
known as “black sand.” The aforesaid black
sand is a finely desiccated combination of pure
hornstone and specular iron ore carrying a little
mica. Being of high specific gravity, this sand
mostly obtains in gullies and flats adjacent to
creek courses in the mineral belt, and owing to its
tendency to absorb heat, the temperature of the
black sand in certain gullies during summer is
astounding. Even shod with a heavy brand of
footwear, one cannot dwell long on the sand flats.
Emus, when crossing these places, just put head
down and tail up, and go like Old Boots. Kan-
garoos have never been known tositupsurprisedly
on the black flats to stare in stupid curiosity at
any passing intruder. Their tails and feet
wouldn’t stand it. It would amuse one to
see a sedate old blackfellow, as full of perfume
and hoary years and dignity as his hair and beard
are of dust and grass seeds, crossing one of these
flats. He usually casts a quick glance round, in
case anyone should be watching his antics. Then
with a flourish of the womera, which he usually
carries walking-stick fashion, there is a twinkling
of bare black legs, a streaming of scraggy whis-
kers and tattered shirt-tails on the hot. dead air
and our Black Brudder is across. After that
he resumes the business of being a dig-
nified perambulating perfumery. T'other day I
watched a gin and her half-caste piccaninny cross-
ing the black sand flat below my camp. At the
edge of the sand the gin gathered up her old
skirts and shot across the 70yds. of flat like a red-
shank. The piccaninny started after its ma,
but when half-way across doubt seemed to assail
its mind and it stopped. Several seconds later it
was howling and stamping with pain and rage,
while its she parent stood barefooted among the
stones and spinifex op the opposite ridge and
howled “ Curramanalungan,. ! lMpr words to that
effect, which, construed into-Hjiglish, might mean
“Run, you little beggar—run !”
A waggon, claimed to be the largest in
Australia, was lately built at Richmond (Q.) for a
Toowoomba carrier. It is 25ft. long and 10ft. Gin.
wide, and has Sin. tyres and double poles. It will
carry 20 tons.
There are some traces of a birth-rate in
Bananaland. A Boonah wife has just presented
her husband with a daughter, which makes 20
in the family—lo boys and 10 girls. A brother of
this father of 20 has counted his eleventh —all
boys. He is hoping that the next 11 will require
skirts and brooches, for boys are growing mono-
tonous.
“L.L.”: Have any of your prickly-pear
contributors ever seen a bush of the pest that has
died a natural death ? Or can anyone set a limit
to its length of days? As far as lean see, its
tenacity far exceeds the old Philp party’s grip on
office, and the imagination of a Queenslander has
so far been unable to conceive anything more
tenacious. After a few years’ growth the
branches of the cactus become top-heavy, bend to
earth, and immediately root. This process goes
on and on, and even if the father-root died it
would be necessary to climb over about half-a-mile
of villainous young pear to get at the aged parent
and find out that he was dead. The full horror
of the prickly-pear will never be realised till a
disabled balloon drops into the centre of a square
league of it, and the occupants perish miserably
after struggling for a week engulfed in the
horror. There ought to be material for a grue-
some tale in this idea.
“ Myrtle ” : Recent B. par (6/5/’O9) re the
proposed Dawson Valley-Mount Morgan line
omits a point. Besides the coal which Mount
Morgan will take, the Government expects to
work up a good shipping trade. But already the
Razorback section (it climbs the hill on the
“rack” system) is overtaxed. Four of the special
Abt engines go night and day, shoving along in
sections the trains loaded with fluxes, limestone
and ironstone, for the big co., and this work with
the coke, timber, coal and passenger traffic,
doesn’t leave time for a smoke oh! Two proposi-
tions present themselves—one, to duplicate the
“ rack ” section, which, considering the enormous
cuttings, would be no toy undertaking ; the other,
to do away with the “rack” section altogether,
and climb gradually up along the sides of the spurs
from some two miles back. Incidentally, the
Mount Morgan road is a good one to tack a new
line on to, for last year it cleared 19 per cent. —a
profit which makes all other Bananaland railways
look very humble propositions.
“ Northman ” : The secret of such discon-
tent as is expressed by .N.Q. land-seekers who,
having failed to make good there, have comeback
south again, is that the average land-seeker trails
like any sheep in the wake of the last man ; and
that tendency results in the entire push or bunch
of him finishing up at Atherton. Atherton, the
well-advertised, is chronically full of land-
famished folks, who have no hope of getting a foot
of what they are after. The Government is cut-
ting the district up for settlement with consider-
able industry, but the surveyors can’t do tlie job
quickly enough for the waiting horde of would-be
settlers. Why can’t these people display a touch of
originality in their land-chasing operations ? There
is as good land on the Daintree and the Bloomfield,
and on Bailey’s Creek as any at Atherton. Yet,
barring a few miners, there are not a dozen men
thereabout. The Daintree, a beautiful wide river,
is navigable by small craft for many miles, and
Port Douglas, where the big boats call, is close
handy. But the land along the banks—miles upon
miles of it—is deserted. Over 20 years ago
the Government sold this splendid soil
at 10s. an acre, in lots too big for
small men to touch—64o-acre blocks, mostly.
Had smaller pieces been surveyed, and
the whole lot been thrown open, with- some
guarantee of communication, there would be hun-
dreds of sugar-farms and the like there to-day.
Many of the buyers—fat men in Brisbane—have
never seen their lands. But it is no use discussing
the “might have been,” and the Daintree lands are
perhaps worth more to the country as they are—
i.c., as several hundred square miles of argument
for a progressive land-tax.


FORTUNES IN THE TROPICS.
Haiti and San Domingo, which together would go
over 20 times into Queensland, produce every
year about two million pounds’ worth of coffee.
Queensland’s tropical half is eminently suited for
the culture of coffee, which is already successfully
raised there.
Java, Borneo, and Sumatra, to the north-west of
Queensland, which would all go into Queens-
land (. with France thrown in as well), produce
135 million pounds of coffee annually.
And still the demand for coffee increases, while
Queensland’s great coffee-groiving capacity re-
mains neglected.
Cocoa, tea, and cotton are sources of wealth beyond
the dreams of avarice to other countries.
Queensland can, and does, grow all three, but
the industries are in their swaddling clothes
as pet.
Capital will yet get a rich reward in developing the
tropical cultural industries of Queensland.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XX.
QUEENSLAND CULTURAL INDUSTRIES OF TEE
FUTURE.
By J. D. Fitz Gerald.
Reference has been made to Bernays’ book on
the cultivation of useful plants suited to the
climate of Queensland. The late Mr. Bernays
was a member of several learned societies, and
occupied the position of clerk of the Legislative
Assembly of Queensland. He was a keen student
nf tropical culture, a member of the Queensland
Acclimatisation Society, and author of “The Olive
and its Products” and “ The Duty of the States
in the Teaching of the Science and Technology of
Plant Life.” In his preface can be found the
germ which afterwards budded into the Kame-
WEALTH IN FIBRE—A PLANTATION OF
BOWSTRING HEMP.
ruuga State nursery for the carrying on of experi-
ments with tropical plants and trees. As early as
1880 he was deputed by a far-seeing Government
to investigate the results of the experiments
which had been made by the Queensland Acclima-
tisation Society in introducing exotic plants, and
he then reported that—
The observations then made abundantly proved that
the mere introduction and distribution of useful plants
was not sufficient to ensure their successful industrial
establishment, but that they were often neglected for
want of knowledge of their value or were subjected to
wrong treatment through ignorance of their habits and of
the proper methods of their cultivation and utilisation.
The examples,’’ he went on to say, “of interesting
exotic plants which had been distributed by the Society,
or from the Government gardens, were numerous ; but the
want of a guide to their cultivation and their uses in the
economy of life rendered it improbable that they would
become, as many were fitted to become, the subjects of
new cultural industries.
WEALTH IN FIBRE.—A SPECIMEN
OF A GIGANTIC QUEENSLAND
FIBROUS PLANT. THE LEAVES
ARE NINE FEET LONG.
He shortly afterwards produced the book with
which vl am dealing, and my purpose now is to
show the possibilities of the various plants, trees,
etc., and to give the figures where procurable, which
will prove their commercial value toother nations
in order to prove that the development of these
plants and their products will swell the aggregate
wealth of Queensland, and give opportunities for
thousands of men. Mr. Bernays dealt with 78
valuable commercial varieties suitable for cultiva-
tion in Queensland. Among these are fruits,
beans, spices, oil-yielding and medicinal plants
and trees, whose barks or fibrous parts are
of commercial value. It will only be possible to
deal with a few of the principal of these. They
will serve to show the marvellous fecundity of a
soil and variety of climate which can produce such
varied products as those which, in Queensland,
A SOUTH QUEENSLAND COTTON-FIELD.
cover the whole range of valuable flora from the
peach tree and the strawberry to the rubber, the
tamarind, and the cocoa-tree.
Take coffee first. Vast areas of Queensland’s
territory should be eminently suitable for the
production of coffee. “The best climate for high-
class coffees,” says' Bernays, “is found on the
slopes of tropical mountains.” There is plenty of
country in the North which comes up to this
description ; and the tests have shown that success
can be assured when the industry once takes a
hold. Port Douglas, Cairns, Gerald ton, Mackay,
and Rockhampton have all proved that coffee can
be successfully grown. In 1907, 113,4841 b. of
coffee were imported into Queensland, of a value
of £4864 (including roasted coffee and chicory).
Tea is the favorite beverage of Queenslanders, as
of other Australians, as will be seen by figures
below ; and therefore, until the taste for good
coffee grows, the industry would be an export one
mainly. In Europe, tea is very little in demand,
while coffee is mostly in favor. A few figures will
show the value of the trade. .
For example, here are the figures of the con-
sumption of coffee in the principal nations of the
world in the year 1904 :
lb.
United States .. .. 960,879,000
Germany 396,205,000
France 167,552,000
Belgium 125,411(000
Austria-Hungary .. .. 108,687,000
Holland 28,930,000
Great Britain and Ireland 28,783,000
Canada 6,188,000
Of the huge amount of coffee .used in the United
States, Brazil furnished £19,389,800 worth;
Central America, £1,826,000; other Central
American States, £2,322,400.
When we reflect on the possibilities of Queens-
land in this one line, with her climate and other
advantages, with her 359,000 square miles within
the tropics, we cannot help making a comparison
of her stage of development 'in regard to tropical
culture, bv culling a few figures as to the produc-
tion of coffee in other countries with less territory.
For example, the Dutch East Indies, which lie
immediately to the north-west of Queensland in the
same tropic seas, produce 135,000,0001 b. of coffee.
Their principal fields are in Java, Borneo, and
Sumatra, the territories of which, added together,
only amount to 423,000 square miles, or little more
than half the area of Queensland. Haiti and San
Domingo, in the West Indies, whose whole terri-
tory would go into Queensland more than 20
times, produced 71,000.0001 b., worth nearly
£2,000,000 in one year. Mexico, with a territory a
little larger than Queensland, raised 35,000,0001 b.;
while Brazil, with a larger territory than the
United States or the Commonwealth, raised
1,600,000.00011)., qr rather exported that amount,
valued roughly at £40,000,000. We begin to get
some idea of the potentialities of coffee culture
when we contemplate these figures.
Let us pass to cocoa, whose value, nutritive
qualities,; and popularity are so well known. In
1907 Queensland imported 289.5601 b., valued at
£28,357. To import cocoa to Queensland is very
much like bringing coals to Newcastle, or gold to
Charters Towers. Queensland should be an ex-
porter, not an importer, and should be able to
manufacture and export the marketable article,
and employ large numbers of her own men in
making and handling the article for transport.
The opinion of Mr. Bernays was borne out in the
experiments of the Kamerunga State Nursery.
Cocoa will flourish in Queensland, and the farmer
who wants to raise the beautiful evergreen tree
will find plants available at Kamerunga. Let us
examine the demand which the world makes for
cocoa. The total production in 1903 was
260,000,0001 b. Here are the principal producing
countries and the quota of each :
lb.
Ecuador 46,500,000
San Thomd (Africa) .. 45,000,000
Brazil .. .. .. .. 43,000,000
Trinidad 29,000,000
Venezuela 25,000,000
And the countries which consume cocoa, did so to
the following extent :
lb.
United States .. .. 63,000,000
Germany 43.000,000
France 41,000,000
Great Britain .. .. 35,000,000
Netherlands .. ... .. 33,000,000
Spain 12,500,000
HOW SISAL HEMP IS GROWN IN QUEENSLAND.—A PLANTATION
AT CHILDERS , BURNETT DISTRICT.
With the growing demand, there is no reason
why, within a measurable distanceof time, Queens-
land should not be exporting raw cocoa, as well as
chocolate.
Now, we will take tea. We are not so certain of
the future of this product as yet, although it can
be grown successfully in North Queensland. The
competition of the teas grown by the aid of coolie
labor in China and India may operate for many
years against the development of this wealth pro-
ducer. But even that competition may, at the
right time, be overcome by judicious tariffs. Aus-
tralians are the greatest tea-drinkers among the
peoples of the European stocks. Here are the
figures of the tea consumed per head of popula-
tions of the various countries
Australia .. 6'93
Great Britain .. 6'09
Canada.. .. 5 "60
U.S.A 1-34
Russia .. .. 0'95
Germany .. o'l2
Prance .. .. o‘o6
In 1907 Queensland imported 3,922,6111 b. of tea,
worth £148,506. If even a portion of this amount
used for home consumption were produced locally,
it would bring many acres into profitable use in
Queensland which, perhaps, are now idle.
Now I come to an article which has made the for-
tunes of more than one country—cotton—one of
the pi’oducts of the soil which, when manu-
factured, passes into almost universal use. The
figures of the production of cotton and cotton
products are almost incredible. The amount of
cotton supplied to the world in 1907-8 was
15,200,000 bales, or 7,600,000.0001 b. To this huge
quantity the following countries contributed :
Bales.
America 12,500,000
East Indies 1,300,000
Other Countries .. .. 1,400,000
In 1907 there were 119.000,000 spindles at work
on this cotton, of which the following countries
employed the numbers set against their names :
Great Britain .. .. 52 million spindles
Continent of Europe .. 35 ~
United States .. .. 26 ~
East Indies 5J ~
It might be interesting to take a few of the
cotton-growing States of the American Republic
and look at. their cotton outputs, in order that we
may gauge the prospects of Queensland if ever
she set herself seriously to cotton-growing. The
largest producers were :
Bales.
Texas 4,000,000
Georgia.. .. .. .. 1,728,000
Mississippi 1,500,000
Alabama ■ 1,330,000
South Carolina 1 .. .. 941,000' M '
0,499,000
Or, in round figures, 4,750,000,0001 b. of cotton was
produced by five States of the American Union ;
and these combined States, if they could be super-
imposed upon the territory of Queensland side by
side, would still leave 215,225 square miles of the
Northern giant’s territory uncovered. Or, to put
in a concrete illustration, if the States of the
Union, which produced this enormous amount of
cotton were put in Queensland, there would still
be room in the Northern State to comfortably
place Prussia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, and
Switzerland. I ain again and again emphasising
Queensland’s territorial greatness; and this is
done because, without some striking comparisons,
it is impossible for men in the Old World to realise
that greatness. Australia is so far off the beaten
track that it requires some imagination to arrive
at the relative proportion of things at a
distance. But, when it is put in a con-
crete form, and it is shown that five rich
States of the great American Commonwealth
can be put into Queensland, and that there
is still room for the territories of five of the great
and historical European States —one of them,
Prussia, the greatest military force of this cen-
tury-then the greatness of Queensland’s territory
assumes its proper proportion. This is a territory
dedicated to a white, civilised race, governed on
democratic principles, with a commercial organisa-
tion of services through the Government. Why
should she not in 20 years be the great exporter,
not only of raw cotton, but of manufactured
cottons, for the world’s markets, with the whirring
of a million spindles to show that a white
democracy is not without capacity to add immense
value to the raw products by the application of
skilled labor?
But let us consider a few of the acclimatised
products. Take fibres, sizal hemp and kapok.
As an auxiliary crop, kapok is a most valuable
product, and the tree flourishes exceedingly in
Queensland, as the Kamerunga State Nursery
director avers. A short list of some of the
trees and plants of high commercial value
which are eminently suitable for tropical
Queensland, may be given here. There are the
breadfruits and jack fruits, excellent foods ; there
are medicinal plants like the tamarind, the coca
tree (from which cocaine is procured), camphor,
liquorice, colocynth, castor oil, chinchona, and the
Bengal quince. There are the household pepper
and the horse-radish trees ; the peanut, the taro
root; the delicious paw-paw and mango; there
are oils to be obtained from the cajeput, teel oil;
and, from the Bengal quince, medicine, size, per-
fume, lacquer and dye. The patchouli plant is
the source of another perfume. Then there are
the spices and nutmegs. One need hardly refer
to the banana or the qocoanut, the former an ex-
cellent and nutritious food, and a yielder of fibre
and of material for paper-making ; the latter pro-
ducing a most valuable oil, which is one of the
chief ingredients in soap-making, and an oil-cake,
which is an excellent fattening food for cattle
Then there is gum arabic, cinnamon, sunflower
seeds (useful in mixed farming for fattening pigs);
the cork tree ; and last, but not least, the olive,
that easy source of wealth, the auxiliary to farm-
ing of all kinds.
I should like to write about the prospects of
viticulture in Queensland, but there is not space.
The South of Queensland has a climate like Italy
and Southern France—without the Italian or
French frosts and snows. Already good sound
A GIGANTIC FOURCROYA.-SHOWING
THE FLOWER POLE OF A FIBROUS
QUEENSLAND PLANT.
wines are grown ; and little trouble has so far
been taken. The production of wine in the world
in 1905 was 3.775.000,000 gallons, of which France
produced 1,719,900.000 gallons, while Australasia’s
production was under 8,000,000 gallons, and of
this Queensland was only responsible for a few
thousand gallons ; and Queensland has a territory
over three times the size of that of France,


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mkliiournk Aoknus : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Frkmantlk Agents : GEO. WILLS & 00.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (|)otaal [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
for .
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, ever £3,000,000.
Policies Issued,lll,s27 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hor.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
MEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: L B. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD. j
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA, j
and THE C.vST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. -.. £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 72,500 0 0
£731,601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. -—-
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERM*.
WE
$
•#
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
TVT.S.'W.
{j)ontdepieteO.«i|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
Vi CASTLEREAGH Sr., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colilna-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP’ £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. K Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
LADIES’ COSTUMES.
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in I weeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives liis
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
A
Shipping.
ord
eutscher
loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of flea Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
fiRAIkSTS DRAFTS on Austl ' ali a, New Zea-
unnro 1 o unar i o i and> Fiji, Gre at Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.) ; J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about'
June 9.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
July 7.
MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0,
New York, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0 (
Pamvhlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on A indication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetoivn. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
t New Steamer. f Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os'to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3r 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
; THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received bnlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
Jp
Houpay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
( b ) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during 1
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
( d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(«) Borrower has the fight to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon whioh the Advance Department may lend are : —(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant),, (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases. ,
SAVINGS BANK, DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and-of-good quality at moderate rates-of interest.
Detailed information on apolicition to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
iIM
Hi
George hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
SOLID GOLD WATCH PUZZLE.
GREAT OFFER BY A RESPONSIBLE FIRM.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHINC TO TRY.
To any person who can supply the correct names
of these two well-known English Towns, and
fulfils conditions below, we offer our £3 Lady’s Solid
Gold Watch, fully jewelled, English Government
stamped, as a FREE Gift. (Silver Watches
aie presented to Gents.).
Send your attempt on a sheet of paper, together
with stamped addressed envelope for reply, to
FELLOWS & CO., Wholesale Watch Merchants,
Birmingham, England. The winner is required
to purchase a Chain from us to wear with Watch.
The name of this paper must be mentioned.
Prize-winners of last competition were : Miss L. C.
McLamarara, Bartley Crescent, Wayvil'.e, S. Aus-
tralia; Mr. D. Cray, Bookable, W. Coast, Australia.
JheEasy Shave
v MAXIM
RAZOR
/47-49 Elizabeth Sh,
Melbourne .
A luxurious shave
will await you every
morning- if you get
one of these high
quality
MAX/M
RAZORS.
The blades are fin.,
fin., or fin. deep,
with round, square,
or Irish points, and
every razor is sold
under an absolute
guarantee of satis-
faction, or your
money refunded.
You can easily pay
a higher price, but
you cannot get a
better razor. Post
free to any part of
Australasia for
6s. 6d.
Sole Agent for
Maxim Razors:
DON'T LOOK .OLD.
DARKEN
TOUR
■WITH
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
Vj*
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
Sbipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
■S.S. Yongala, June 5.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairn
S.S. Wollowra May 22.
"S.S. Grantala, May 29.
S.S. Innamincka, June 5.
Jiest and Cheapest Ho ate to (roldfieldx
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL St CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION LINE
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles °f the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing, the new twin-screw steamer, “TOFUA.”
25th May, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCK-
LAND, transhipping at latter port for Sydney,
thence every 28 days ;
or the new twin-screw steamer, “ ATUA,” leaving
Auckland on the 25th May for TONGA, SAMOA and
FIJI to Sydney, every 28 days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTQ,” June 8,
thence every four weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from the latter port to Wellington per
“ MANAPOURI,” allowing a stay of 30 days in Tahiti,
arriving at Wellington, July 28 ;
or per “ MANAPOURI,” leaving Wellington, May 27,
thence every five weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from TAHITI to Auckland per “ HAUROTO,”
allowing a stay at TAHITI of 13 days, arriving at
Auckland 29th June.
For further information
and descriptive booklet
apply—
to the various offices
in Australasia of
the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED, 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IiED IiOUTE
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
&ST ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPAMY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F. — H.
5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,400 Tons. T. Priske, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 10th June
, „ „ SYDNEY - - 16th June
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 19th June
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - 24th June
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
[ £49 10s ‘ £l3 13s - £is 15s ' £l7 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “DORSET.” For further information, illustrated
books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltdi, Adelaide.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
j Price 2/0. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.


PERFECT AGONY
With Eczema on Arm and Legs—
Could Scarcely Sleep for Months
—Tried Many Treatments With-
out Result—Did Not Work for 11
Weeks—Relieved in Ten Days and
COMPLETELY CURED BY
TWO SETS OF CUTICURA
“ My trouble began -with irritation on
the legs and right arm which developed
into eczema. It be-
came so bad in a
few weeks’ time that
I was in perfect
agony. I was pre-
vented from attend-
ing work, and, al-
though I w 7 as only
too pleased to try’
remedies suggested
by my friends, they
were all used with-
out any effect. I
became pessimistic, especially so con-
sidering that I had been through the
hands of two doctors, who failed to do
any good. One day I decided to make
another attempt to get rid of, my com-
plaint and purchased a full set of Cuti-
cura Soap, Cuticura Ointment, and
Cuticura Pills, and in ten days I found
the irritation disappearing. I would
not have believed it possible for any
remedy to afford such comfort in so
short a time. I was able to sleep at
night a thing which I had not been
able to do for months and in the
course of another week there were un-
mistakable signs of the eczema being
mastered. I persevered with Cuticura,
and in six weeks, using two supplies, I
was cured. I have every reason to be
grateful to Cuticura, for I was able to
return to Work after eleven weeks’ idle-
ness. George Harrison, Poole Terrace, nr.
South Milford, Yorkshire, June 11,1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
For pimples, blackheads, red, rough,
and oily skins, dandruff, dry, thin, fall-
ing hair, shaving, shampooing, sana-
tive, antiseptic cleansing and for the
toilet, bath, and nursery Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment are unequalled.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults
consists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuti-
cura Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Re-
solvent or Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate
Coated) to Purify the Blood. A Single Set often
Cures. Sold throughout the world. Denots: Lon-
don, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix;
Australia. R. Towns & Co., Sydney; South Africa,
Lennon, Ltd., Cane Town, etc.; U. S. A„ Potter Drug
& Chem. Corp.. Sole Props.. Boston.
=i-c
VKT PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly enjov GOOD HEALTH.
Our NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
FAT quickly, safely, and per-
manently. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 CASTLEREAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
V
THIN weak, nervous, scraggy,
111111 > FLAT-CHESTED, RUN-DOWN
and UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If you want to add flesh, be made
plump, stronsr, healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRiAL SAMPLE of
“MIRACULA” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.'
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
j/Ai
Try this
SPECIAL
line of
DERBY
SHOE,
in Welted or
Pump Soles,
best Glace Kid,
with Patent
Caps and
Cuban Heels.
Price,
16/6.
Postage 9d.
extra.
If cleaned with Learning's Cazeka Shoe Paste (6d.
pel - tin) the wear is guaranteed.
Send for Price Lists—Free. ’Phone 1799.
LEEEVIING’S SHOE STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; and
1 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
Glycerine and “ Benzoe ” Scaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
'“Redness ” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing and softening
the skin, set, up an irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
CLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
e/V©)
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawK.es &, Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SUTTONS,
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
290 & 292 Bourke Street*
Melbourne;
CEREBOS
SALT
Agents-—Harrison &• Attwood\ Sydney .
PATEN7J
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
A SAFE
FAT
REDUCER
There have been
thousands of dif-
ferent methods
wm
w&mm
tried for reducing superfluous flesh, but most
are entire failures, or else lastingly harmful.
“FATCURE”
is the only safe and lasting cure for obesity.
It is pleasant to take, and if desired can be
taken secretly. In many cases 5 lbs. a week
has been removed, with perfect health fol-
lowing the reduction. After you have been
using “ Fatcu.re ” a few days your
breathing becomes considerably easier—the
pressure around your heart becomes notice-
ably less, and your general health rapidly
improves. Send us a 2d. stamp and we
will post you a Free Trial Sample
and our interesting descriptive Booklet —
“Plain Talk on Obesity.” Send To-day.
i ■; aw—
Walworth Co., Suite
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney).
IP
urn
m
IligS
&. Sohn,
A. G.
Optical Works': Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
Heliar-
Camera
I PLATE.
SUITABLE FOR TROPICAL CLIMATES.
, . Sole Agents:
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
336 GEORGE STREET, near C.P.0., SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.'), post free. [3
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
( Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
iMade by F,C.Calvert■& C 0.,. Manchester,Eng.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
CSBSs££&st»
birds
Custard
Bird’s .
Custard With Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
WORLD’S CURE
FOE
Coughs, Colds, mi.
Asthma, Bronchitis
Influenza, Whooping
Cough, Hoarseness, &c
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
I'Ung Tonic could not have been won,,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
remedy ever known. Beware of Sub-
stitutes; ask for “ OWBRIDGE'
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold everywhere
in bottles at Is. lid..
Js ‘Jd., 4s. 6d.,.&115.
COPYRIGHT,
fs
V.
o
You sec him along the barrel of a
WINCHESTER
22 AUTOMATIC RIFLE
HE’S YOURS!
This handy little ten-
shot rifle repeats itself,
the recoil being utilized
to do the reloading.
The novelty of its oper-
ation affords possibili-
ties for practice and
pleasure which no other
i “twenty-two” does. Look
one over. & & &
Sold by Dealers Everywhere.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class Results use Best Scandinavian
“ PERNIX” Carbide.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can he obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES’ PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage; 2id.). i
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
The prospect that Jim Jeffries may yet meet
Biudder Johnsing in battle is driving- Yankee sports
almost crazy with hope. The big white man still preserves
his attitude of bashful indefiniteness, and doesn’t say
whether he will fight or not; but he trains steadily. The
obvious fact is that Jeffries can’t say anything definite at
present. He is engaged in single combat with his own
elephantine heap of flesh, and until he knows how the
battle will go, his position is necessarily uncertain and
precarious. But the increasing roar of big cash offers is
apparently producing an effect on Jeffries’ear —the one
he listens to financial proposals with. Mclntosh has
spoken feelingly about £lO,OOO. Coffrotb, Gleason and
other ’Frisco managers have mentioned the same amount.
Some third party, who isn’t taken seriously, has alluded
to a £40,000 purse. In addition to all this, it may
be that public applause is getting to Jeffries’ head.
So many sporting writers have urged him to wade in and
win that he is liable to get the proud and dizzy feeling
that he is the one hope of the white race. Johnson has
grown tired of not hearing definitely from Jeffries, and
with his usual blazing magnificence, has offered £2OO for
a straight prompt Yes or No. So far he has only got
Yes-No, but there is no money offered for that.
An instructive Turf story is that of a Melbourne
pony jockey who was lately “warned off” the domains
of John Wren for the term of his natural life. The charge
against the culprit was bribery and corruption, or rather
non-fulfilment of a bribery contract. He had promised
another jockey £5 to pull up and let him win, and the
other jockey “pulled up,” but the money was not paid
according to promise. Therefore, the disappointed
member of the conspiracy took his grievance to boss
Wren, who expelled the faithless briber from his (Wren’s)
righteous courses, as afore-stated. Nothing was done,
seemingly, to the boy who owned up to having pulled his
pony for the promise of £5.
The League’s adjudications as to permits and
clearances previous t > Saturday’s games in Melbourne
point the moral that punishment only awaits the sinner,
as usual, when he is found out, or rather when he makes
a song of his ill-doing. One South star was offered a
billet in Adelaide, and was to play for Sturt. He went
over, and asked for a clearance from his old club. Before
the document arrived he discovered the job wasn’t as
gaudy as it looked, so he returned and asked for readmit-
tance. The League looked at him dubiously, and while
it was still looking he was seduced by the Ass. club, P’ran,
whereupon the League fired him into outer darkness in a
tremendous hurry, and when P’ran has done with him
he will be nowhere in particular. Another Leaguer who
went over to play for Sturt found the distant fields not
as green as they looked, and only got back into the fold
by the skin of his teeth. Also an enterprising novice
from Korumburra wanted to join Richmond, and w T as on
the point of being accepted when Carlton snapped him.
On the League asking what he meant by it, he said he
didn’t know, but he cheerfully offered to forego playing
against Richmond if selected for Carlton. On this the
committee-men inspected him with curiosity for a space,
and then coldly remarked that he might join Carlton,
but mustn’t play-till they said so. And goodness knows
when they will say so. The case of an ex-Fitzroy star is
even worse. He was offered a billet on the Ksseridon
trams a year or two back, providing he played for the
local (Association) club. ’Roy refused him a clearance ;
whereupon he wrote saying he would lose his billet if he
didn’t play. That made matters worse. He played with-
out- a permit for two years. Now he has gone West, and
wants to play for East Fremantle, but on his asking a
permit from the League, with which the W.A. body is
affiliated, all he got was a curt, disdainful “ No.” And
yet there are men who have gone from League to Ass.
and back again without anything happening to them.
But they have always alleged they did it for honor and
glory or the love of the old club, or something equally
immaterial.
* * * *
The Soccer footballers all about Western Europe
—and they are a strong and constantly increasing lot —
are up against a hard thing. Since the English Associa-
tion made professionalism legal, nearly 20 years ago, the
pro. has come to count for more and more, and most
working rules have been made with an eye to the new
state of things. Now hundreds of amateur clubs have
got tired of being bossed by (or on behalf of) the profes-
sional, have thrown over the whole system of “permits,”
and other business-like look-out-or-the-other-fellow-will-
do-you-for-the-gate-money regulations, and have formed
an Amateur Football Association. It is a strong body,
but the Football Ass. simply treats it as non-existent;
and there are a good many even of the amateur
clubs that refuse to leave the Established body and be-
come sporting Dissenters. Meanwhile, what are the
French, Dutch and other clubs to do? They are all
amateur, but if they play the A. F. A. the F.A. simply
shuts them out of all real international matches. Each
body is issuing sporting injunctions and mandamuses,
saying that itself is the jockey club and the other fellow
a mere trotting-course, so to speak. The position is
much the same as at Rugby—only there the pros, aredhe
Dissenters. The European clubs are not yet able tojdo
as Australia has done, and send teams to take on each
body separately, so they are in the plight of the small
boy whose father and mother have a prolonged scrap.
The only safe thing for the kid to do is to get under the
bed and wait to see which parent comes out on top.
• • * *
Apparently the 120-h.p. £3OOO Benz car that
the Mclntosh was said to have bought himself after
his interview with James Jeffries has been doing things
at the speed carnival at Ormond-Daytona Beach.
“Millionaire,” Brown drove it, and carried off the
“ Dewar Trophy for the best flying mile run.” His time
was33sec., equal to 109 miles per hour, which, fast as it
is, is dead slow compared to Marriot’s 28 l-ssec. (127 J
miles per hour) in 1906. Brown also won the 10 miles race
in smin. 14 2-ssec. (1131 miles per hour), which beat the
world’s record by lmin. 3-ssec., and broke the five miles
record in 2min. 45 l-ssec. As remarked in a previous
issue, our Mac is cutting a dash.
SPORT OR EXISTENCE?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Are you tired, and are you weary ?
Does your nation life grow dreary?—
O, my brothers of Australia in the South and East arid
West !
Are you never tired of cricket —
Of the fast or sticky wicket ?
Does never football sicken you, and sit upon your chest?
Is it only rich Cup races
That your nation mind embraces ?
Have you got no broader outlook than the whirling World
of Sport?
Then I lift my voice in sorrow,
For I gaze on your To-morrow,
And predict that your existence as a Nation will be short!
If your enemies should land
On this fair Australian strand,
Would it aid you to bombard them with old Carbine’s
pedigree ?
Would they wither up and die,
Without e’en a battle cry,
When you told how old Tarcoola won the Cup in ninety-
three ?
Would they have no fierce retort
When you raised your great joss, SPORT?
Would they r kneel and cry for mercy in a very anguished
voice
When you told the worn-out stories
Of Poseidon’s faded glories
When he. filled with gold your pockets and made your
hearts rejoice ?
When the fiery hordes of Nippon
Have a eight and mighty grip on
This fair and bounteous Southland, will you raise your-
selves at last ? : . :
Will you struggle from the mire
Of your cursed Sport-Desire
When you find Australia’s nationhood’s a weird thing of
the past ?
Then you’ll be too late, my brothers,
For you’ll find that there are others
Who have not been sunk in sport-wrack, but have worked
industriously
In making shot and rifles,
Ships, and other sundry trifles
That have helped their warring legions to secure the
victory !
VICTORIA.
BURNETT GRAY.


Some four months ago the firm of F. W. Hughes
and Co. (such good Australians are worth the free
advt.) began a new industry in Sydney—the mak-
ing of “tops” (combed wool) for export. The
enterprise has got so well into its stride that for
the next three months each outgoing Japanese
steamer is booked to carry 230 bales of Australian-
made “tops” to Monkey-land; and meantime
the factory begins to buzz all night as well as all
day. The other evening, the S. M. Herald hap-
pened to stroll past the scene of operations, and
inquired what all the racket was about. The old
paper was so astounded by what it was told that it
immediately ambled back to its office to write
something about it :
Roughly speaking, Australia produces every year
£24,000,000 worth of wool. That wool goes to England,
Germany, France, and elsewhere. By far the most of it
goes absolutely raw—as greasy as it left the sheep’s back.
It is not until it lands oversea that it is scoured and
combed. Scouring and combing reduce its size about
one-third, and yet add £6,000,000 to its value.
It has always been a question why that £6,000,0000
should not be added to it in Australia, and the freight
saved on the two-thirds that have otherwise to be carried
12,000 miles, only to be cut out of the wool when thev get
there.
As the Herald says, “it has always been a ques-
tion why,” etc. ; yet the answer to the problem
was always available, if the Herald only chose
to see it. For instance, one reason for the raw
wool-exporting foolishness was the superstition,
carefully fostered for many years by the Herald,
and papers like it, that the Australian was a poor,
helpless sort of person, who couldn’t do anything
for himself—seemingly he couldn’t even wash the
dirt out of a bit of wool—And that nothing was
worth anything unless it was done 12.000 miles
away. Happily, the HERALD-made superstition
is dying rapidly these days.
Another of the ex-BKNT State’s attempts to
place people on the land has gone adrift. A
while back the Closer Settlement Board inspected
the Heart estate in Gippsland, belonging to
Foster Brothers, and offered £67,000 for it. As
Fosters wanted £74,000 for it and declined to
abate a penny, the deal was “off.” Then certain
citizens of Sale, perceiving that the breaking-up
of the block would advantage the town, offered to
lend the odd £7OOO without interest, provided
they were repaid speedily. Thereupon the
Board acquired the land, cut it up, and offered it
to the landless. But as the deposits on
the blocks comprise not only the customary
moderate payment to the State, but also the
£7OOO advanced by the men of Sale, the said
blocks are going off about as enthusiastically as
Bent left the Treasury. The deposits are so
heavy that would-be settlers of the right kind
simply can’t pay them. At latest the Board was
pissing off as many blocks as it could on to the
wives and daughters of adjacent rich landlords,
the net effect of the proceeding being that most
of the Heart has been bought from a couple of
rich landlords and cut up only to be returned to
other rich landlords. It is a great idea, and aptly
epitomises the Bent-Murray land policy.
According to the cable, Turkey’s ex-Sultan
Abdul the Damned has been induced to give up
the keys of the strong-rooms at Yildiz Kiosk
where his treasure was stored, and persuaded to
sign orders for the transfer to the new Govern-
ment of £2,000,000 which he had hoarded in
foreign banks. A very bald, uninteresting
creature is the cablegram. If it had given a vivid
word picture of the persuading of Abdul, with
diagrams showing the implements employed to
help him to make up hismind, it might.have been
a thrilling item. The bare, dull-brown statement
that Abdul was persuaded is no more exciting
than a sketch of a wet mackintosh.
The secret of success under modern conditions
is the elimination of waste. In a properly regulated busi-
ness there is no such thing-, and many great fortunes have
been built up out of most ordinary businesses by the
simple expedient of turning ordinarily waste substances
into valuable by-products. But this is a fact that the
Australian farmer learns but slowly. It is only of late
that he has come to recognise the value of ensilage,
liven when he did he commenced at the bottom of the
ladder instead of starting where the Yankee farmer had
arrived. He went in for silo pits, then silo stacks ; but
now, witli a mind bettered by experience, he is taking to
erecting proper silos, because thej'have, of his own know-
ledge, proved the best. Probably he would have arrived
at the last stage long before but for the lack of proper
material with which to construct the silo—one which
would fill the bill without running into too great a
cost. This difficulty has been completely overcome
by the introduction of “ Fibro-Cement ” by Messrs.
James Hardy and Co., of Circular Quay, Sydney. This
firm’s silo at the recent Agricultural Show was a revela-
tion. : It had a capacity of 110 tons. When closed it was
air-tight, circular in shape, with perfectly smooth walls
inside, which made the process of packing simplicity
itself. The Fibro-Cement of which it was composed is
said to he as durable as brick or cement, and much more
suitable. The most expensive part of the structure was
the timber. These are the details of the cost of a 110-ton
silo of the sort: Fibro-Cement for the walls, £2O ; timber,
£l5; labor (cutting, mortising, tenoning, etc.), £9 10s.;
roof, £7 10s. ; hoops, paint, 'dampcourse, etc., £l2 10s.
Total, £O4 10s. The Fibro-Cement does nob shrink with
the weather, being composed of cement and asbestos. It
is non-corrosive, white ant proof, and totally waterproof.
With such a silo and an Ohio cutter, the whole of the
waste of the maizefield which would otherwise be burned
is turned into nutritious and palatable feed, and the pro-
cess of eliminating waste from the farming business
advanced another step.*
“ Japanese Spy ” writes :
The worst use you can put a foreign consul to is to ask
him more or lessimpertinent questions about the country
he represents, for you are thereby giving a fellow human
being a direct inducement to lie, or a direct incentive to
be rude. If he is a very polite man—or a very nervous
one—he sidles out with a half-truth ; if he happens to be
a large, florid individual, too good-humored to be angry,
and too intellectually heavy to hustle, he laughs in a
superior way, and refuses to be serious. Then next morn-
ing’s paper comforts the fatted reader with an account of
how the consul “ridiculed the suggestion.” The daily
paper man has a bad habit of racing to the consular
representative for Nubia whenever a whisper floats
in that Nubian spies have been seen crawling on their
stomachs through the Northern Territory ; or to the
official liar of Palestine when it is reported that a great
Hebrew naval base is being fitted up. and that the fleet of
Judah has been seen in the distance. Then the consul
invariably “contradicts the absurd report.” How long
would he keep his job if he didn’t ? This sort of thing isn’t
art, or common-sense, or even news ; ibis just plain, dull
lying, and as such should be prohibited under the
Noxious News Suppression Act. (P.S. —There isn’t any
such Act—hut there ought to be.)
The Bulletin is glad to be able to point to
another result of Federation in the Ma State in the shape
of the establishment of Messrs; F. W. Hughes and 00.
Ltd. at Botany, in which wool is combed into tops for
export. Although our local woollen mills have done
their own combing for years, this is the "first
attempt to keep in Australia some of the money
spent in labor on our exported wool. The plant
is of the latest design and works with wonderful accu-
racy and smoothness. There will be shifts of employees,
and the mills will run day and night, stopping only for
the usual seventh day rest. These machines are fed with
scoured wool, and the combed product is known as
tops. The rejected combings are known as noils, and are
utilised in the fellmongery part of the establishment.
The project is supported by the Australian Parliament,
which has granted a bonus for the next five years, not to
exceed £lO,OOO per annum. The wool at present being
run through the mills is to he exported to Japan. Now
that a start has been made, this paper devoutly hopes
that the time will soon arrive when all wool leaving this
continent for abroad will, at least, have been combed
locally.^
Amusements.
MELBA,
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR, 1909
(Under direction of John Lemnione).
NEW ZEALAND—APRIL to MAY 24,
NEW SOUTH WALES—
Commencing at SYDNEY, JUNE 1.
QUEENSLAND—
Commencing at BRISBANE, JUNE 26.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Everj' Evening at 7.45 sharp.
THE J. O. WILLIAMSON
GRAND ANNUAL CARNIVAL ATTRACTION.
JACK AND JILL
OUTSHINES ALL ITS PREDECESSORS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
FAREWELL TO SYDNEY OF
MISS TITTELL BRUNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE GIRL of THE GOLDEN WEST.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DIANA OF DOBSON’S
(Two Nights), to be followed by SUNDAY (Four Nights).
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
JME LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER'S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is Gd, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, Meynell & Gunn Company.
Managing Directors : Clyde Meynell & John Gunn.
EVENINGS at S. WEDNESDAYS at 2.
BRILLIANT AND ARTISTIC SUCCESS of
Wilson Barrett’s Last Plav,
“LUC K Y DUK H A M.”
Interpreted by MEYNELL & GUNN’S NEW
ENGLISH CO., including HARCOURT BEATTY.
Plan at Elvv’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at S ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
AY E ST’S -PICTURE S,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & Gd. Popular Prices. Gd, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY
(Oastlereagh Street. Near Bathurst Street).
THE PLAYGOERS’ DRAMATIC CLUB
will Present the Great Australian Comedy Drama,
OUT OH THE OASTLEREAGH
(bv J. O. Lee),
For FIVE NIGHTS ONLY—May 31, June 1,2, 3 and 4.
MR. REGINALD GOODE as REV. ALLEN RAE.
MISS LILIAN BOOTH as MARJORY.
Mr. W. H. LEVEY, Stfige Manager.
Miss A. CHAMBERS, Secretary.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
CHUNG LING SOO, World’s Greatest Magician.
MR. JACK KELLY and MISS KELLY.
MISSES MAXWELL and ROBERTS.
GRAHAME AND DENT. THE TWO BELLS. :
IRVING SAYLES. LITTLE BABY WATSON.
MR. WILL JAMES. MISS MALVINA MOORE.
LUCY LAVINA. WILL WHITE.
PRICES —35., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
R. H. DOUGLASS, Monologue Entertainer.
TOM WOOTTWELL, Comedian.
G. W. HUNTER, Comedian Monologuist.
CHAS. FANNING, Comedian.
DALE & O’MALLEY, Patter Comedians.
THE LAURELS. Ping Pong' Table Act.
THE WHEELERS, Trick Cyclists.
STEWART-and- LORRAINE,- Clever Musical Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. J2T PRICES—3s, 2s Gd, 2s, Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE ATTRACTION,
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS
STRUCK OIL.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is.
Plan at Allan’s,
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
" * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
FOR THREE WEEKS ONLY,
MAJOR GUY DU MAURIER’S Famous Play,
AN ENGLISHMAN’S HOME.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
STUPENDOUS AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTION.
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation, ’
THE MAN
Popular Prices.
FROM
OUTBACK.
Plan at Allan’s.
w
IRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THB ®“
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-Ne\
Series. IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office
214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
Missing Friends.
DAVID ROSS—KATE ROSS.
IF DAVID ROSS and KATE ROSS,
formerly of Berritnal, Victoria, will com-
municate with the undersigned they will hear of
something to their advantage.
D. J. WALLACE, Solicitor,
Swan Hill, Victoria.
WANTED KNOWN the whereabouts of
HANNAH or ANNA CLARKE,
daughter of Peter Clarke, late of Enoggera, Bris-
bane. Last heard of 29 years ago. Apply,
Queensland Trustees, Limited, Brisbane.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WARES.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
No. 6685.
BETWEEN
FLORENCE EDITH DAVID Petitioner
and
CHARLES STANLEY DAVID Respondent
TO CHARLES STANLEY DAVID lately of Welltown
Station in the State of Queensland and formerly of
Reedy Creek Inverell in the State of New South Wales.
rpAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE EDITH
■*- DAVID has commenced a suit against, you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse during three years and upwards; AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper Office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Thirtieth day of June now next ensuing
and in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this EIGHTH day of MAY A.I). 1909.
THOMAS ROSE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
Lyndhurst Chambers,
84 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
FOR THE REGISTRAR
JOHN GEO. LEARY (1.5.), Chief Clerk.
RAMEY'S
MEDICATOR
CURES: Catarrh, Deaf-
ness, Hay Fever, Asth-
ma, Neuralgia, Head-
ache, and Diseases of
Nose, Throat and Ear.
Price. 10s. post free,
Includes Medicator, In-
halent, and Ointment,
with lull directions. If
required, extra Inhalent
2S. 6d., Ointment is.
Illustration shows the
Medicator used in two
ways—blowing into the
nostrils, and inhaling.
Briefly, Catarrh is inflammation of the lining membrane
of the noste and adjoining passages. If the inflammation is
not arrested it invades the ears, throat and lungs, destroys
the senses of taste and smell; impairs the sight and hear.ng ;
causes baldness and rots away the frontal bones of the skull.
Dyspepsia and Consumption can also be direct.y traced as
starting from the catarrhal discharges. The Ramey Medi-
cator is designed to treat the affected parts by direct applica-
tion. By its use, medicated«air is slowly forced through the
nostri’s and head and into the lungs. Our inhalent is a disin-
fectant containing carbolic acid. Long-standing cases of
Catarrh, Deafness, Headache, Asthma, Neuralgia, Coughs,
Bronchitis, Colds, La Grippe, etc., yield readily to the heal-
ing properties of our treatment. It kills the germs and re-
stores normal conditions. It is a well-known fact that our
method of treating catarrh and kindred ailments is endorsed
by thousands who have used it. Why piy a specialist a large
sum of m ney for doubtful results when you can cure yourself
by this simple home treatment? The Ramey Medicator is
highly nickel plated, and should last a lifetime. The medicine
is put on a sponge in the enlarged part of the Medicator, be-
tween the mouthpiece and nose tubes. Full directions with
every instrument. Send ios. postal note to the Sole Agents
for Australasia: STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collug Street.
Melbourne.
&
M
Parlor Magic.
This valuable text-
book contains complete
and exhaustive direc-
tions for performing
over one hundred amus-
ing and mysterious
tricks in magic and
legerdemain, including
sleights with dice, dom-
inoes, cards, ribbons,
rings, fruit, coin, balls,
handkerchiefs, etc., etc.,
the whole illustrated
and clearly explained
with 121 engravings.
The directions for per-
forming these tricks
are made so very eicar
by the aid of the many
Illustrations given that any one may readily perform
them, and thus become a veritable wizard in his own cir-
cle of acquaintances. Tricks which you have seen per-
formed by professional magicians, and which have
Seemed to you almost miraculous, are so clearly and
fully explained in this book that you may perform them
with ease. Among the tricks explained in the book are:
“The Magic Coin,” “The Magic Handkerchief,” “ The
Dancing Egg,” “The Domino Oracle,” “The Magic
Bond,” “To Swallow a Barber’s Pole,” “The Restored
Ribbon,” “The Magnetized Cane,” “To Eat a Peck of
Shavings, and Convert them into a Ribbon,” “The
Wonderful Hat,” “The Pepper-Box Trick,” “The Bag
of Eggs,” “A Watch Pounded in a Mortar,” “To Pierce
the Arm with a Knife,” “The Glass of Wine Changed
into a Shower of Rose Leaves,” “The Goldfish in a Vase
of Ink,” and many others. “ Parlor Magic ”is a book
of 64 large pages. Price, only Eight Pence, posted
THE UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
ON THE HOP’’—Cheap Edition NowOn
Sale —2/6; Postage, N.S. W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
BILLIARDS LTD.
(Phone
1338 City).
630, 632 and 634 George Street, SYDNEY (near Liverpool Street).
25 Full-Size
AlcocK Tables.
Several Private Rooms, which can be engaged
in advance by a ring on the ’phone.
ANDREW
McGEE
MOT until you use the Gillette Stropping - Machine will you realise how
1 ’ quickly, it puts a perfect edge on the blade, and what a pleasure it
makes your shave. Any novice can use it because it is so simple to use, and the
result so perfect. Just a rub back and forward —the machine does the rest.
The Gillette Stropping Machine, 5 6 8 6(6
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 Castlereagh Street, corner Hunter Street .
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAY.
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
BY APPOINTMENT TO
tin- ~ V J. id""*
BOVRIL
Tempts you to Eat and Feeds you.
Whether at home, at the office, in the restaurant, or in the
theatre, a cup of Bovril is easily and quickly procured.
ALWAYS INSIST UPON BOVRIL, AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
4 HOME
HEW
tfjCAL APPARATUS
WITH DRT BATTERY
ME
%
wm
m
<&
m
i
--3 v
>
'avm&SSm
JERDANS
Home Battery
For Brain Workers.
It is wonderful what effect the electrical
currents from our “Home” Battery
have on all persons suffering from brain
fag.
The nerves are strengthened; the
whole system invigorated.
Again, the Battery proves itself
invaluable in cases of Rheumatism,
flout, Sciatica, Lumbago, for it is con-
venient in treatment and permanent in
relief.
PRICE 35s
POST
FREE.
We will refund the money in any case
of dissatisfaction.
JERDANS,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 QEORQE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.


“ The Swimmer,” from a sorrowful land :
The No License party in Auckland (Maoriland), irri-
tated by the attitude of Auckland’s one mo’rninn-
paper, the Herald, towards its pet cause, lias pub°-
licly announced its intention of starting- a new mornino-
paper. Infuriated teetotalers believe that, with a morn*
ing paper to back them, they could carry No License right
through the Auckland province. Whether anything will
come of the project it is hard to say, but it is quite cer-
tain that several of the wealthy members of the “ Band of
Business Men” (as the people behind No License in Auck-
land style themselves) are prepared to come down with the
money. Apart from the doubtful policy of starting a
daily paper on goody-goody lines, there is undoubtedly a
fine chance for a morning sheet run on enterprising
methods in the city of much rain. Auckland’s present
morning paper is a stodgy rag. The weakness of
the staff is due to the amazing unpopularity of
the Herald among Maoriland pressmen, who cannot be
tempted to help manufacture its news. The proprietary
has recently been trying the experiment of importing
.Australian pressmen at fairly good salaries, but the
Slight of dulness and parochialism still remains on the
paper. The Herald is a journal of weak nerves, and is
always tremulously apologising for imaginary libels.
Either it drinks too much and has got the jumps, in
which case it should knock off; or else its constitution is
undermined by a diet of vegetables and weak tea, and
what it wants is to drink a quart of whisky and then go
out and smite the libel-writ man over the head with the
bottle. Anyhow, it is a weak paper, and for that reason
it has had its leg pulled oftener than any other Maoriland
journal, and has been the butt of all sorts of practical
jokes. The Herald is worse than a crime ; it is a blunder.
The Star, Auckland’s one evening production, is a toy
paper that nobody would miss if it didn’t come out at
all. Auckland pressm«n—there are some smart men
among them—are not responsible for these journalistic
monstrosities, or, at least, the reporting staffs are not;
most of the trouble arises from too much proprietary in-
terference. There is certainly room for another paper in
Auckland—strictly speaking, that citv hasn’t got one at
all at the present time—but the “ Band of Business Men ”
isn t the right band for the purpose.
"DAD’S AND DAN.”
Tlie New Way back Book you are bound to read, Is.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
S«,Jd by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HE ARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
== Britisb=Jf«sfralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
* in advance, all over the world.
Price
Australians visiting London are cordially
1^ v ’ s ’k R' e Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on al 1 topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper,
rso fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Neal Ivin-sway),
LONDON, W.C.
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
DelichtfulPipes
Thais what
GUARANTEE^
weans
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable from a!i Tobacconists
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Estatjltsiikd_is4o. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand gJßgr- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing’ Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the-loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Dirkctors— The Hon. A! W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. ft. J. Black, M.L.0.; The Hon. E. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of Che largest and most successful rinlrs in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing'
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
—Messrs. J. C, Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
‘RICHARDSON’*
CHICAGO
The Bulletin Post Cards*
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... (5d
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d
Q. & Q
7 J>nlh
Made
NORTON”
CARTRIDGES
Purposed for .22 calibre Rifle
Shooting, these British-made
cartridges are of the very finest
shootiug quality. The hollow
point bullet is recommended for
sporting—the long and short solid
point for rifle practice. Specify
King's Norton” from your
Ammunition Dealer. Agents:
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE
BBgfci VICTORIA
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials. ' 1 ■'
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Messrs. Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney
Prepared bv l W NiOHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist
25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
This DIET is recommended
I in place of ordinary milk focd<-\
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant*
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Pridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
RUPTURE
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
Varicocele Can Be Cured!
THE CAUSE OF MORE WRECKS THAN ANY OTHER DISEASE.
IT GAN BE CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
JT • i ty anc ? e and are ignorant of the harm which may result. They only know that something is
y and ambition from their bodies and brains, and know of no reason to account for it. This terrible
affliction is the most treacherous, silent and certain in its work of all known ailments. It comes on without apparent cause,
and never ceases in its destructive influence until it robs a man of all his vitality and leaves him a physical and mental wreck
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
for the cure of Varicocele and its concurrent or attending weaknesses. Applied exter-
nally or internally drugs usually prove either ineffectual or injurious. There are many
ways of treating it, but none is so sure of success as properly-applied Electricity We
have devoted twenty years to the study of Electricity for the cure of this and kindred
aliments, and have cured 5000 cases of Varicocele. We have cured cases of thirty years
standing, where the patients had exhausted all other known treatments without relief
and who came to us in a state of complete debility. DR McLAIIOm
ELECTRIC BELT and electric suspensory-our
knife, injection, ligation and every other known means had failed. We have cured
physicians, lawyers, ministers, merchants and laborers. We use a method of our
own ; one which is the result of vast experience during the past twenty years We have
an electric body battery which can be worn comfortably while the patient sleeps at
night, and which gives a powerful yet soothing current that is always under control
It pours its vitalizing energy into the body for six to eight hours every nmht in a
manner which dissolves the congestion, assists the circulation, gives contraction to
relaxed cords and restores strength. If you are tired of useless'drugging and have spent
your time and money without benefits, write to-day. We have made over so 000
Peopte strong and vigorous, and they never tire of praising our wonderful remedy.
EIS a positive cure for all Weaknesses, Nervousness, Varicocele, Loss of Vitality Stomach
Kidney and Liver Troubles, Rheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago, and wheif used with our
newly-patented electro-plastic truss, is a certain cure for Rupture. ... It is easy to use- no
b “ Pn T .° r shoek; P ut on when you go to bed, and you get u P in the morning feeling like’a two-year-old
colt. They are guaranteed to give a strong current, instantly felt, and have special attachments for men
They are withm the reach of all; price £1 and up. Beware of cheap imitations.
FREE
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write us, and our
specialists will give you a full diagnosis of vour case free. All
communications ars treated with strict confidence. For private
address, address: M. E. B. Co.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
The McLaughlin do., Dept. io 5
Castlereagh & Market Streets, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
15he LEADING
HOUSE.
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
WINCHESTER
Just landed 1906 Model Rifle, Improved; handles *22 short,
long or long Rifle Cartridges, mixed or separately,
POSTAGE—2/3, N.S.W. ; 4/2, Inter-State-EXTRA.
£2
s
HOI mm
Send for Illustrated Sports and
Fishing Catalogues FREE.
T
BEAT
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, Sydney, and
Hunter Street , Newcastle .
Branches:
Church Street, Parramatta; 197 Oxford Street, Sydney ;
113 King Street, Newtown; 273 Darling Street, Balmain.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Gist Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, ls;post,ls3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple testis for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post; Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted.. Sandow’s' Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taugiit, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
i
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
flow to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking. Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work, it will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped tiie Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, is 2d.' Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Scpf.rb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. Tiie Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, ipf Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s. 6d. . Clog. Dancing Made : East,; Is. '
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, §d.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology. 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a.
Wife, 3s tid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, los post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dynat
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth'
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
HEARNE'S
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief ; and to those
who subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Ihroat Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain. ' v;
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 46. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Jlway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its vonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and p pu'ar
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
g arautee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANOLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., o PP . D.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY i
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Noveltiet
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
MiHiMlHlliH
GRIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
■ P
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma.NervonsCoujilis,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately,
relieved by GK ill AULT k Co's INDIAN CISAr.-
ETTES. So d bv all Chrmuts.


Six Months in Hospitals
with Terrible Burns.
Leg and Arm almost Roasted —One Great Wound from Knee to Thigh-
Discharged as Incurable —Another Zam-Buk Triumph.
For ten months Mrs. W. Bewick, residing - at 41 Belmore Street, Kozelle,
Sydney, suffered agonies from terrible burns, caused through her clothes
catching fire whilst cooking at an open
fireplace on Weetawaa Station. Wee Waa,
northern New South Wales. Her injuries,
which were extensive and serious, baffled
doctors and hospitals, and defied all ordi-
nary ointments and lotions, etc. Scores
and scores of cases of stubborn wounds of
all sorts have done the same, but they
have all surrendered completely, just as
Mrs. Bewick’s has done, to the great and in
vincible healing powers of Zam-Buk Balm"
Mrs. Bewick says : —“I cannot sufficiently ex-
press my gratitude for the benefits I have derived
from the use of Zam-Buk Balm, and I have the
greatest pleasure in sending you the following
details of my wonderful cure.
“Some sixteen months ago. whilst cooking at
an open fireplace on Weetawaa Station, Wee
Waa, I was severely burnt through my clothes
catching fire. My right leg and arm were almost
roasted, the leg being one great wound from the
knee to the thigh. I was an inmate of the Wee
Waa Hospital for three months, but received no
benefit from their treatment. I was then trans-
ferred to St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, where I
lay for another three long months with the same
disappointing results—all the efforts of Doctors and Nurses failed to do me any good. At the end of that
time the Doctors at the Hospital told me they could do no more for me, and I was sent home. I was an
invalid at home for nearly four months, using the treatment prescribed at St. Vincent’s Hospital, but
still remaining the same, and, what was more disheartening to me, without seeing a glimmer of hope of
my ever being cured. At this time a friend dropped in to see me, and, on telling her a few facts relative
to my trouble, she strongly urged me to give Zam-Buk Balm a trial. lat once acted on her recommenda-
tion, and am thankful to say that after three months’ treatment with Zam-Buk I am perfectly cured.”
jo
MRS. BEWICK
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is without equal for cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, abrasions, and
all injuries to the skin ; and promptly cures boils, pimples, running 1 sores,
ulcers, ringworm, barber’s rash, swellings, and all diseases of the skin.
Zam-Buk is ob-
tainable from all
chemists and
stores at 1/6 per
pot, and 3/6 larg’e
family size (con-
taining nearly
four times the 1/6
pet).
i
RUB IT ||(7
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE. YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe sKin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe sßin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The Kid.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
''jVT'OW, this ain’t a ioocid stoty, but it ’as a
’igh-class moral.
-A- » I can mop up all the ptaises hurled at.
me by them it soots.
An’ with them it don’t appeal to 1 don’t seek to
pick a quarrbl;
But I pause to say, in passih’, that I hold ’em
brainless coots.
Well, it mighte.r befeii a nightmare or it mighter
been a vision.
Why or ’ow or where it happened, or ’ow long
or short ago—
These are items I am shy of; but I’ve come to
this decision :
It all ’appened some’ow somewhere, an’ I’m
tellin’ all I know.
With this lengthy introduction—which I’m trust-
in’, inter-alier,
Will be paid for, cash, at space rates, to assist a
ba,rd in need—
(For the lot of jingle-writers in our own sun-kissed
Australier
Ain’t po sunny as it might be, on the ’ole)—I’ll
now proceed.
There was me—who’s most important, bein’ here
to tell the story—
There was Kodak’s gloomy lodger; an’ a ’Enry
Lawson bloke, -
Also E. J. Brady’s pirate) full of husky oaths and
gory-
An’ a plump an’ pleasin’ female from an Am-
brose Dyson joke.
Likewise with us at the gath’rin’ was Grant
’Ervey’s Strong Australian,
An’ a curly Souter peach; it was a treat the
way she dressed ;
An’ a Louis Esson dryad, sparsely gowned an’
sornewot alien
(For which rhyme I point to many precedents
amongst the best).
Also there were many others, far too noomerous
to mention :
Bron then, sornewot out of drorin’, but exceedin’
terse an’ keen ;
Feller pups, George Reids ah’ dry dogs—but it is
not my intention
To innoomerate the -items in a Chris’mus
Bullyteen.
Where we were I ’ave no notion, tho’ it mighter
been Parnassus.
Any’ow—but I’m forgettin’ one small guest
that came unhid ;
Standin’ in a corner sulkin’, seldom speakin’, ’cept
to sass us,
Rubbirt’ ’is thin Calves together, stood a Nor-
man Lindsay kid.
But the main point of tliis story is' that all of us
was stony ;
An’ we needed money badly for to give our-
selves a treat.
An’ we wanted to present the editor with some-
thin’ toney
In the shape of clubs or rest cures, just to try
an’ get ’im sweet.
“Mates, alas, there’s nothin’ left us,” ses the
gloomy Lawson native.
“We can only look for other castaways from
other wrecks.”
When the Wild Cat, on ’is windlass, scratched ’is
le£t ear contemplative
An’ femarked, “ I think I’ve gotter scheme to
land the fatted cheques.
“ We are! valuable assets,” ’e went on, in tones
finanshul.
“We are also reproductive, an’ I think I see a
chance
To relieve the present tension, an’ sebure a sum
substanshul,
Which all comes of roy acquaintance with low
schemes an’ ’igh finance.
“If we borrer twenty thousand on our natcheral
resourses—
On all 'Bulleyteen creations— it will purchase
many beers. .
We can maffick, an’ pay int’rest—which a triflin’
thing of course is—
With a sinkin’ fund extendin’ over ninety-seven
years.”
Well ! To say we was elated is tp put the matter
mildly.
I can still ’ear Brady’s pirate yellin’, “Bite
mates, let us bite ! ”
I can stillj see Kodak’s lodger kick ’is slippered
feet, and wildly
Try to borrer two-an’-sixpence on the spot. . . .
But oh, that night !
“ Where [do / come in?” a squeaky voice arose
above our shoutin’.
Rose an’ squeaked, shrill an’ insistent, over all
our joyous din.
•Twas the kid, the Lindsay youngster, standin’ in
’is corner poutin’.
“Take a pull, yer bloomin’ wasters! Blime,
where do I come in ?
“Nice ain’t yer? Giro, yer loafers! Let
the; cornin’ generation
Suck their thumbs an’ watch yer jag, an’ ’ump
the bill when it comes due ;
Slave an’ work when you ’ave snuffed it. An’
yoq ilook for veneration
From us kids ! Why, blime, who could venerate
the likes of you ?
1 i - ■
“’As The! Bullyteen been preachin’ years an’
years an’ years for nuffin’
On the vice of floatin’ loans an’ gettin’ in the
’ands of Yids?
Playin’ up yer borrered money ! Eatin , drinkin ,
swillin’, stuffin’!
Then, when you ’ave chucked a seven, what a
picnic for the kids ! ”
Spare me ! You could ’ear a pin drop when that
little kid ’ad finished.
We just ’ung our ’eads in silence, till the Strong
Australian spoke.
(Brady’s pirate tore ’is whiskers, with ’is lust for
jags diminished ;
An’ the Souter peach was sobbin’ on the breast
of Lawson’s bloke.)
“ Comrades,” ses the Strong Australian, “ see our
star all glory litten !
Heed the ancient, beer-stained story ! Heed
the warning of the kid !
Lo, the way of ink’s before us ! Ringing verses
shall be written
In which I shall figure largely. Yea, I shall ! ”
An’, ’struth, ’e did !
Ses the pirate, with the remnants of ’is whiskers
fiercely bristlin’.
“ In the war of life together we must take each
wound and sear.”
“Now, we care not where we’re bound for,” ses
the Lawson native, whistlin’
For’is dawg. “ It’s up Matilda.” As for me,
I ses, “’Ear, ’ear.”
As I sed, this yarn ain’t loocid, but its moral
should not fail yer.
I shall ne’er fergit that ev’nin’ or the voice
above the din.
It’s the cry of all the kiddies, born an’ unborn, in
Australyer,
When we flash our borrered millyuns : “ Blime,
where do we come in 1 ”
VICTORIA.
DEN.
A Thief in the Night
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PETER’S father had come home tired—very
tired. He was so tired that he had to he
supported by Peter’s mother all the way
to his bedroom, where he fell on the floor and
burst his second best bell topper.
When Peter heard them taking his boots off, a
business that gave Peter’s father occasion to say
that nobody loved him, Peter sneaked his cap off
the hall-stand, and ran out of the house in search
of Bill. It was evening, and he found Bill seated
on the doorstep of the Wesleyan Church. No
mood of soft repentance caused Bill to linger at
the Temple Gate. It was choir practice night,
and Peter had his reasons for expecting to find
Bill lurking about the Tabernacle.
“ Clear t’hell,” shouted Bill, the moment he
defined the agitated blur approaching as his
small brother Peter. Peter was used to the in-
tolerant exclusiveness of age, and made no matter
of Bill’s greeting.
“ Pa’s tight,” he said hurriedly.
Bill’s ferocity immediately vanished, and he
patted Peter on the back. The news of Pa’s in-
ebriety was clearly agreeable to him.
“They was puttin’ him to bed,” said Peter,
pleased at having acquired Bill’s approval.
Bill hiccuped genially, and caught hold of
Peter’s head to balance himself. Then he made
an imperious gesture into the night.
“ G’hoine,” he said. “ G’home an’ see if there’s
anythin’ in his pockets.”
“ Not yet,” said Peter anxiously. “ They might
cop me.”
“G’home, damyer ” —began Bill loudly, but the
verger happening to look out at the vestry door,
he fled up the road, followed by Peter.
“I tell yer they ain’t put the light out yet,”
shouted Peter, after a third explanation had been
rendered necessary by Bill’s excessive obtuseness.
Bill abandoned Peter's hair, which he had
grasped the better to impress on his mind the
urgency of his demands, and sat down with mys-
terious suddenness in the gutter.
There, having with a great deal of preparation
failed to light a frayed cigarette, he slapped his
knee and burst into a loud laugh.
“ Yer orter been with us ! ” he said, in explana-
tion of the laugh.
Peter was vastly flattered. This was really
very handsome of Bill.
“Ought I, Bill ?” he asked, expectantly.
Bill made an imperious gesture, signifying con-
tempt of Peter. He wished it understood that
any suggestion that Peter’s presence would have
graced the festivities was merely a figure of
speech. While making this clear he dropped his
cigarette in the gutter, and, stooping to recover
it, fell untidily on his face. When he had become
upright again, with Peter’s assistance, he said :
“I had a long ’un, Salty Peters had a long ’un,
Ginger Menders had a long ’un, and Jerry had a
medium.”
This sort of talk was very magnificent to
Peter, and he listened with avidity. To him the sub-
stanceof Bill’s discourse was not merely the arrogant
enumeration of “ long ’uns ” ; it was the flattering
assurance that he, Peter, as a man of under-
standing, might safely be intrusted with these
affai rs.
“You’re the one, Bill,” he said, with humble
admiration.
Bill made a careless gesture with his hand, and
fell over backwards. When Peter had performed
the offices necessary to erecting him again, he
said —his manner being extremely sententious —
“How much beer—at one’go—d’yer reckon you
c’d put away ? ”
“Haw,” said Peter, deprecatingly, “about
half a glass.”
“ Halfer glass!” said Bill, fiercely. “Half a
inch ; that’s about your measure.”
Having so disposed of Peter’s unwarranted
assumption, he said, fixing Peter magisterially
with his eye—
(Continued on next page.)


THE WELL-ADVISED NEVER NEGLECT
ISEASE.
The best advice that can be given to anyone suffering
from urinary troubles, weakness of the bladder, backache,
headache, watery swellings round the ankles or under
the eyes, constant tiredness, dizziness, broken sleep,
ringing in the ears, or irregular heart, is to take Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at once, for they cure the kidneys,
and therefore cure all these symptoms of kidney and
bladder disease.
"Every
picture
tells a /
Story.’* \\
V
/
E *5 ,
m
v
si
ha
53
Good Advice
From a Sydney Man.
Mr. W. B. Lewis, 10 Laura Street, Newtown, Sydney, states: “There is no
medicine more satisfactory or really beneficial, that I know of, than Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills. Much sickness and broken time would be avoided, especially
by those who, like myself, are occupied at out-door work, if these pills were better
known. One of the many advantages about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills is that
they may be taken with perfect safety at any time. I suffered from the kidneys for
some time, and was recommended to try them, and they gave me great relief. My
friends to whom I have spoken of their excellent effect speak in similar terms of
them. I have no hesitation in saying that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are the
most comforting, and most certain to give relief, of any kidney medicine I have
ever tried.”
Seven years later, Mrs. Lewis:—“My husband has not suffered with his
kidneys since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him seven years ago. This
remedy is worth its weight in gold to the kidney sufferer ”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per box (six boxes,
15/3), or will be posted on receipt
oi price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76
Pitt Street, Sydney.
felwl¥ Ifrh W 1
8
M
backache
•*§iiis
fel
BKGS&Hggi
DOAN'S OINTMENT
CURES EVERY TORTURING SKIN IRRITATION,
Eczema*
Mrs. G. Stewart, G 7 Ferry Road, Glebe,
Sydney, writes:—“For twelve months I
was troubled with Eczema ; it was only a
small spot, but it was itchy and annoying.
I was anxious for a cure, for I was also afraid
that it might spread. I used ointments and
skin remedies, but they were ineffectual.
When a friend told me how good Doan’s
Ointment was, I at once sent off for a pot.
This was the first remedy to give me relief,
I had only used it a few times when the
irritation stopped, and continuing the treat-
ment, it cured me. I waited to see if it
were a cure, or only temporary relief,
before writing, but a year has gone by and 1
am still free of the ailment, so can safely
say I am cured for good.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 7G Pitt Street, Sydney.
Piles.
Mr. J. G. Carter, jun., 182 Bulwayo Road,
Ultimo, Sydney, says : —“ I can strongly
recommend Doan’s Ointment. For two
years I suffered agony from protruding and
itching Piles, the pain and irritation were
almost unbearable. I could scarcely get
about, and could not sleep at night. I was
very bad. and could not get relief, although
I tried everything I could hear of, and got
treatment from doctors. Fortunately Doan’s
Ointment was recommended to me. I com-
menced to use it, carefully following the
directions. Relief came after the first appli-
cation, and I persevered with the treatment
until I had used three pots. I am abso-
lutely right, and it is twelve months since I
used the ointment. Seeing how good Doan’s
Ointment proved for Piles, I used it for
Eczema, which had broken out all over me ;
it was very painful and itchy, as well as
most unsightly, but Doan’s Ointment again
proved its genuine merit, and absolutely and
completely banished all trace of the ail-
ment.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d.
per pot, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-DicCle lan Co. t
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“An’ look at me”—he paused impressively.
“Four long ’uns, two mediums, an’ I’m sober’s a
judge.”
He fell over on his back, and was again assisted
up by the admiring Peter.
Steadying himself with some difficulty by the
aid of Peter’s head, he leaned over and spat slowly
in the gutter. Then he stuck out his tongue and
blew on that organ to cool it, and his humble
expedient suggesting a great and pressing need,
he turned fiercely on Peter.
“ What about’er money ?” he said, thickly.
Peter arose at once and ran off home. He
climbed in at the bathroom window, and, trembling
somewhat, tiptoed his way into his parent’s bed-
room. The light was out, but Peter’s father’s
stentorian breathing bore honorable testimony
that he harbored no mean suspicions regarding his
trousers. They were hanging on the bedpost as
usual, and Peter, in a sweat with anxiety, ran-
sacked their pockets hurriedly. He got several
handfuls of crumbs, a tobacco-scented water-
biscuit, two cigar-butts, a half-crown and a shil-
ling. Deciding to keep the shilling for his own
private necessities, Peter got safely out of the
house and ran behind the church. He planted
the shilling under a brick in one of the church
ventilators, and sped off in search of Bill.
Him he found hanging over the church gate in
a state of somnolent moroseness, but on being
aroused by Peter, and the presence of the half-
crown insinuated on his understanding, his mood
at once changed to extreme gaiety.
“You can clear ter Hell now,” he said kindly
to Peter. “ I gotter meet a tart.”
Peter obediently cleared, not to Hell, but be-
hind the church, where he presently had the
pleasure of seeing Bill depart with a member of
the choir. Anxious to further enjoy this instruct-
ive spectacle, he arose in a mighty hurry and
sped across the paddock, secreting himself behind
a fence where Bill would pass.
He came presently, talking loudly, with his arm
around the girl’s waist :
“Stink o’ beer !” Peter heard him say, toler-
antly. “ So’d you if you’d scoffed the lot I
have”
Their feet scrunched in the gravel, but a part-
ing sentence came to Peter.
“Eight long’uns, four mediums an’ a shandy—•
an’ look at me—sober’s a”
They passed, and Peter ran home, concluding
satisfactorily in his mind that Bill was certainly
“the one.” And if Peter meant anything by
that, it was a cordial appreciation of Bill’s eminent
qualifications for the position of the family bad
egg-
When Peter went to unearth the shilling next
day, he got something in the nature of a severe
shock. There was no shilling there, but in its
place lay a shining golden sovereign !
Peter was staggered in all his senses.
He replaced the brick, and without a word, lest
the unexpected might continue in the form of
sudden retribution, climbed hurriedly over the
fence dividing his father’s stable from the church-
yard.
There he abode for some time, staring unblink-
ingly through the palings, not thinking, but
merely remaining greatly amazed.
The space between the fence and the stable was
confined and inaccesible to anything much larger
than a hen, but it was a good place for one who
might, by his acts, have acquired an angry parent.
But half an hour’s seclusion in a very confined
space may have a soothing effect on the most per-
turbed small boy, and Peter at length decided to
further investigate. He approached the venti-
lator on tiptoe, and had another look.
It was still there, golden, round—a sight beyond
the dreams of avarice. Peter, having assured
himself by the closest scrutiny that there was no
deception, put forth his hand —touched it,
examined it, weighed it, breathed on it, licked it,
and at length laid it out on the brick, and gloated
over it. At first he gloated silently, but gradually
his ecstasy wrought on him in such sort that he
commenced to hum. For a while he hummed like
a top—steadily, busily.
Then he crawled away on his hands and knees,
and peered at the coin round the corner of the
church. The hum rose-exultantly.
He ran off a short distance, and sauntered care-
lessly back in the direction of the coin. His
manner was that of one unaware of the close
proximity of a sovereign on a brick. In front of
the ventilator he paused, manifesting extreme
indifference.
Without moving his head, he allowed his eye to
travel slowly down the wall till it rested on the
sovereign. The effect was terrific. He staggered,
plunged, recovered, and pounced on the coin.
Again the hum arose and mingled with the air.
It was well acted. After that he tried finding the
sovereign in various other ways—in trees, on fences,
m his hat, on the roof of the groom’s room, and in
all the ventilators. The last experiment in one of
the ventilators was of such a nature that the
sovereign would probably never have been found
again, if Peter hadn’t frantically poked it out of
the hole with a stick. Sobered considerably by
his late imminent danger of total bankruptcy,
Peter hid his wealth under the original brick, and
went home to dinner.
At the dinner table, Peter’s father aired a cer-
tain grievance.
“Preposterous nonsense, woman,” he said, in
reply to an insulting reference to his memory
from Peter’s mother. “ I distinctly tell you ’’ —he
waited with bottled ferocity for Peter’s mother’s
attention—“ I say 1 distinctly tell you ”
Peter s mother was busy helping the gravy, so
I eter s father, having used his finest glazed stare
on her to no effect, helped himself so violently
to the cabbage that a large portion of that
vegetable was distributed over the tablecloth.
When this expression of Peter’s father’s feelings
had been commented on and wiped up, Peter’s
father resumed the discussion.
“ 1 beg your pardon, my good woman,” he said,
enunciating each word with extreme delicacy of
articulation that Peter’s mother might note the
calm justice of his mind, “ I am not in the habit,
1 may say, of chunking money away into the
gutter. I simply tell you ” —‘ —
“0, don’t talk to me,” said Peter’s mother irri-
tably. “ In the state you were brought home
in ”
“Rubbish!” roared Peter’s father. “ D’ you
take me for a fool, woman ? I tell you I had half
a crown and a sovereign.”
Peter started, and a piece of meat he was in
the act of carrying to his mouth dropped down
his collar. Without attempting to remove it he
stared fearfully at his parent, as though expect-
ing to be then and there denounced and ordered
to proclaim his villainy aloud. If fear had not para-
lysed his intellect, Peter might have blurted out
some hopelessly compromising denial of his guilt,
but luckily his mother diverted Peter’s father’s
attention by a fresh suggestion.
“If the truth was told,” she said, “ you pro-
bably gave it away in mistake for a shilling.
O, you needn’t look at me like that,” added
Peter’s mother, in warning tones. “You know
very well that in the state you were brought home
in ”
Peter’s father, like a man tired of life, pushed
away his plate and knocked over the gravy. Nap-
kins and criticism were again applied, and the
pudding arriving opportunely at that moment,
Peter’s father requested them to pitch it to the
Devil—a glass of beer and a thimbleful of cheese
were all he needed, he said. And, reduced to
pathos at the thought of such a meagre diet, he
ate two large helpings of pudding and groaned
heavily.
Peter, though a hearty eater as a rule, taking a
ploughman’s share of all that was going without
any inconvenience, bolted his pudding and left
the table in a hurry. It appeared to him that his
very presence in that atmosphere invited
accusation.
He fled to school like one possessed of guilt,
and, pondering on his great and sudden wealth,
was beaten on the hands and had no ease.
* * * *
That evening, when the stars were lit, Peter,
followed by Bill, climbed the stable fence and
went privily behind the church.
There a match was struck, and Bill, having
assured himself that certain words of Peter’s were
not the ravings of a madman’s dream, replaced
the brick and led the way back behind the stable.
Here Bill took it upon himself to read Peter a
homily on the value of silence. The sovereign,
he said, didn’t belong to anybody. As,things
were, he might give the old man back his quid, or
he mightn’t. By his manner of saying this, Bill
seemed to imply that, from obviously honorable
motives, he was hardly free to act in
the matter. Of course, Bill had no wish to take
the old man down for his quid ; far from it; but
the point was, he owed Jerry sixpence. Bill
made a good deal out of this point. It was a
matter of honor, he explained to Peter, to always
give a bloke back his sixpence. Anybody could
see that. Peter could. He saw it clearly. “So
don’t you say anything about it,” concluded Bill;
“that’s all you’ve got ter do—keep yer mug
shut.”
Peter willingly consented to the condition. The
future of the sovereign being now a matter be-'
yond his jurisdiction, he felt no further qualms
about having taken it.
For three days the sovereign reposed under the
brick in the ventilator, awaiting the hand of Fate,
or the hand of Bill, to send it rolling once again
on its eternal quest of fresh pockets. But on the
fourth day, Fate, with the connivance of the local
tailor, decreed that Peter’s eldest brother, Bob,
should come home wearing a new pair of trousers.
When this trifling circumstance is taken in
conjunction with the fact that Bob abode at home
in the capacity of a non-producer, that in his
private system of economics he usually relegated
the responsibility of procuring trousers to his
father, and that his father, in frequent lyrical out-
bursts, had described himself as being “thoroughly
sick and tired of it,” the appearance of the
trousers may be consul'”- o '’ l »*» significant.
They were of a jaunt\, cut —the mode at
that time wearing its troUs°rs lull—with a red
check that invited attention in no modest terms.
Bob was evidently well pleased with them, but
the interest he showed in them was mild to that
betrayed by his father. They seemed to entrance
the old gentleman’s vision. He kept his best
codfish glare on them till they disappeared under
the table to allow Bob to take his seat at dinner,
and even then their unseen presence clearly had
an exhilarating effect on him.
“Nice cut !” said Bob, gratified by his parent’s
appreciation of his taste in trousers.
Peter’s father said nothing, but he attacked his
dinner as though it were the gizzard of a mortal
enemy. At intervals, a basilisk glare, sometimes
at Bob, and sometimes under the table, showed
that he was engaged in calculations of a dreadful
nature.
Peter’s eldest brother was of a frank and unsus-
picious mind, but when Peter’s father took to
pulling the tablecloth aside, and fixing a look of
petrified indignation on his bags, he began to
think that something besides the exquisiteness of
their cut was exciting his parent’s interest.
“Anything wrong with them?” he inquired,
bringing the offending things out from under the
table, and inviting Peter’s father’s inspection.
Peter’s father at once commenced pushing the
plates about, but evidently finding that occupa-
tion inadequate to express the burning nature of
his thoughts, he gave vent to a short, bitter laugh,
and said it didn’t matter, it was a mere nothing.
Pressed for an explanation of this very dreadful
statement, Peter’s father became a trifle more
lucid. It wasn’t the first sovereign he’d missed,
he said, nor the second. From that text he then
descended to certain cryptic utterances in which
the words “slightest compunction—ruin father—
’fernal scoundrel” at length effectively enlightened
the staring Bob.
“Why, dam’ it!” he said, rising, “D’ you think
I stole the quid ? ”
Peter, who up to this had but vaguely compre-
hended the drift of the conversation, put down
his cup and eyed his father anxiously.
“D’ you think I stole the dam’ thing?” repeated
Bob in a louder voice. Peter’s father picked up
his fork, scowled horribly at it, and cast it back
again. It went in his tea cup, which instantly
dashed itself to pieces on the floor just as Bob was
making his demand for the third time.
“ Go to the Devil ! ” roared Peter’s father.
Peter’s eldest brother kicked over his chair
and left the room in a rage. In the hall he
was heard to say he’d be darn’d if he’d
stay in the house to be insulted by a bald-
headed old . The banging of the front door
left the sentence without its conclusion, and Bob
was gone. He went away for ever to finish his
dinner at the Shamrock, and, having in the
interim poured the beer of human kindness on his
wounded spirit, he went to bed at midnight with
his trousers on, and slept well !
That same night, Bill bought four plugs of
Victory, a bundle of Swiss cigars, and a new pipe.
He also came home at midnight, full of half a pint,
of beer and covered with dust, and crawled in
through the window. That was his simple pro-
gramme for several nights, bringing home equal
quantities of beer and dust, save on one occasion,
when it seemed better to leave the beer on the
garden path, and slumber in the washhouse.
As for Peter, he got two shillings on one occa-
sion, and ninepence on another. Bill, it was
true, subsequently borrowed sixpence back,
making his total gains two and threepence, but
Peter was satisfied.
Now that the guilt of the stolen sovereign had
permanently taken up its abode in Bob’s trousers,
it was a very agreeable thing to have two and
threepence to spend with a clear conscience.
NORMAN LINDSAY.


“After having recovered from rheumatic fever I was
so weak that I thought I would never get strong again.
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
eight bottles.”
E. T. Moore,
■■■■■■■■■Hl
W
w
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsapariilas that will disappoint
you. Get “AYER’S.” .
Prepared by Dr. 3. C. Ayer & Co., Dowell, Mass., U. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do you *uffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. T hen send lor parficulars
oj our perfectfiitipg
Automatic air cushion Appliance
the Best Ruptur - applianc op the Century
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre^
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St.,Melbourne,Vic
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
m
Each Capsule bears the name
The Standard Remedy whieh has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1696.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth R-oad. London, Eng.
arne
TREET, SY
EY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Governmant Contractors.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters,, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories’and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
destroys all flies and affords comfort to everv home—
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where Hies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
> ruggists,
Grocers and
Hardw are
_ , - DeaUr i,
wltom are
Sydney —Anthony Hordern &Sous ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ;S. Hoffnung Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gottholf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe <&Oo. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
eollectidnof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
ortrait; price 4s 6d. from,all booksellers. Post
rona Bulletin office, ss. ,
DR. d.
The Origi
Convincing'
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle,
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England-
1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup. Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
US, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
f !
*.7
SOLID
NGRKOIENT
rackarock
e : .-.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
THE” EXPLOSIVE
For clearing; your land, and all work in which
Explosives are needed.
THE SAFEST,
THE MOST RELIABLE,
THE MOST EFFECTIVE.
Write for full particulars to the Sole Manufacturers :
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only on really insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters as must be decided by the test of expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECHAM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BBBCHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1 lIS {56 pi Is) & 219 (168 pills).
m
COMPARISONS are Odious
in the opinion of the seller of inferior goods.
The reason of it is quite obvious in the
case of windwills, for instance.
Compare the
“STEEL WINGS ’
with all others.
It is the only windmotor which has a bear-
ing op each side of the windwheel, per-
mitting it to be built in large sizes. It is
therefore easy-running and powerful.
Strength of construction is another feature
which renders it stormproof. Compactness
of design is a further point where it scores
■ —it occupies but a small space over the
well or bore.
It is direct acting, and lifts three pumpfuls
of water while all others lift only one.
Steel wings windmill co„ ltd.,
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
Dept. C posts estim ates, catalogues and price lists free
TERMS ARRANGED.
Do you want a. Good Business in Melbourne,
Suburbs or Country from £2O to £5000?
We arrange Terms to suit you.
Country Storekeepers and Shopkeepers should send
us particulars when wanting- to sell. Numerous
clients always on the look out for good businesses.
WRIGHT & SWIFT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Nikotfffn Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A re tilled extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; Ung-estublisiied, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take
For sale by seeusmen,florists, countrv chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. J>. MORRISON
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, ■'•ydney. *
Sample bottles and f ull particulars, by poet
lt s 4d. ( stamps ; to make b gallons spray.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibatilt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
Nsw South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 61
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Km.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Straet, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary tor the Trustees to bring-this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding- up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines, at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding- locks, pistol grip. Usual price,
£0 I.os. Sale Brice 017 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
looks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price ..£5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. .. ..£5150
S Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price .... .. . .. .. ~ 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A-Pair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts. Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
3
*5
Mem
A (VO
women
FREE.
Dr. John Martin, M.D. *»
Consulting; Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders,
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men suffering- from any complaint,
living in the country or adjact rifr States, or anywhere outside Aus-
tralia. for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martins Lectures on
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages, oyer 500
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical hooks sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
pedia of information fOr people suffering with disease. 2io similar book has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Svdnev and suburbs can obtain the work from any of the Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in the country and adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE fqr the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage.
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address
DR. MARTIN, M.D., House,” 251 Elizabeth-St.,
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


You can’t beat a
Pordriau “Watershed.”
No, there’s no doubt at all that these patent Oilskins
•re the finest wet weather coats ever devised Thev
keep you dry whether riding, driving or walking and
five wonderfully long service. warning, and
Made in yellow and black, you can get them from
leading dealers in all centres for 25/-and 30/" Here™
what one man has to say about
the “ Watershed ’’:—
I bought this coat over
four years ago, and have since
had it in use every day it has
rained, without ever getting
wet. As my business is in the
carrying line, I have a good
deal, of rough work to do, but
rough handling does not seem
to hurt the coat at all.
W. P. H., Marrickville."
. That speaks for itself, doesn’t
, . . it? Send for our “Watershed’*
Booklet and learn all about the coat. It’s well worth
your while, and we send it free.
pekdriau rubber CO., ltd.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,’’
270 George Street, Sydney,
i\ V
electric haulage
Electric
PLANT
AND OTHER
FOR
MINES.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AN*
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADb.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet-
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI.. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten. lOd.
•SCHNAPPS
Try a
“WOLFE”
and Soda.
TKe beverage
that benefits.
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven.—-For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
apply—J. WILD RIDGE & SIN'CLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COMPLETE
MINING
EQUIPMENTS.
DICK KERR 8 CO. LTD.,
Head Australian Office : E. S. & A.^BANK CHAMBERS,
Engineers, Contractors, George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR
INQUIRIES
ffOEICITEP.
-v.
-ft ■■
V I
.
TEL.
/3236
\5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
■ _
I
r.
-
ifflm
m
st
«4
.V ' ■*
Have in Stock —-
Blake’s Pumps for all Purposes,
Fay 8 Egan Co.’s Woodworking Machinery, Planers,
Matchers, Molders, Band Saws, Wood Lathes, etc.
W. F. 8 J. Barnes’ Lathes 8 Woodworking Machines.
Mason Reducing Valves.
Sturlevant Blowers and Exhaust Fans.
Ludlow Open Gate Valves.
Harris Pure Cylinder and Machinery Oils,
American Allwrought Steel Split Pulleys.
Melbourne Agents : SMITH & COOKE, Bourke Street.
Perth Agents: McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, LTD.
KEROSENE HOIST,
Complete.
HOISTS.
STEAM
KEROSENE
HORSE
SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR MINES .
St
'mini'
t
SUBSTANTIALLY CONSTRUCTED.
213 Ceorge St., Sydney; 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
