

9
DEWAR S
Distillers
, •
TO
By Appointment
H.M.The Kino.
WHISKY.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW and SECOND HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. .
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Jeffrey
Conveyor Machinery
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
HO B A.R.T.
=^rrr— —
[adley’B Orient'jts
PIONEER
LEATHER
SELTINC
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludewici & Son Ltd., 117 YorL St., Sydney
M
~=>\
"Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pint Apple Brand
• NOJVQ
® SWVH
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS
Believe me this Is not the time to spere a
doubt,
For remember that a cold Is trying: to
knock you out.
Unaided you’ll be bested—that is sure !
For every malady there is a cure.
Nature hath warriors for you within call:
Allow me t’ Introduce
Herbal Cough Drops
to you all.
CF ALL CONFECTIONERS.
aii , IdoJj&ui u -tt* tie&t.
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES
We make it a point of never being: out of anything. We keep large stocks of and
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts.
279
THE, SIEVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,^
GEORGE STREET 5)1
I
I
is the Queen of all (mow
lAnm^tre^lh^Puritjc
The one roofing that never
leaks is MALTHOID,
because its base is a pure
mineral.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Slates, tiles and iron crack,
split, rust, and absorb
moisture, but MALTHOID
remains perfect.
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
c. a. Macdonald, “The Hercules” Refrigerating' Machine.
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ———^—————■
■i?
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send tor Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 52 8 54 Clarence Street, Sydney.
HELIDON spa water
Saves such wear and tear
digestive organs.
of the
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
V 01.30.— No. 1529.]
[Thursday, June 3, 1909.
Registered at. the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS OF TO-DAY,
THIS PAGE.
Urban, Prof. W. M.: Valuation, its Nature and Laws,
12s 6d, postage 9d.
Mac Coll: Man’s Origin, Destiny and Duty, 5s 6d, post 6d.
Seymour : Speaking in Public ; How to Produce Ideas,
aad How to Acquire Fluency, Ss 6d, postage 6d.
Symons : Genesis of Metallic Ores and Rocks, illus., 10s 6d,
p. Bd. Municipal Year Book for 1909, 9s, post Is 6d.
Hobart: Millwrighting ; a Complete Manual, 15s, post Is.
Bailey : The Novels of George Meredith, 6s, postage 6d.
Trevelyan : Poetry and Philosophy of Meredith, 4s, p. 6d.
Sturge Henderson : Meredith, Novelist, P©et'& Reformer,
6s, p. 6d. Curie: Aspects of George Meredith, 6s, p. 6d.
Le Gallienne: Geo. Meredith: Seme Characteristics, 6s,
p. 6d. Dunn : Napoleon’s Marshals, 10s, postage Bd.
A SUPPLY JUST TO HAND. SELLING RAPIDLY.
THE DIWAN OF ABU’L-ALA, by Henry Baerlein in the “ Wisdom of the East ” Series, cloth Is 3d, postage 2d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLBREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains ne cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
7: ■>
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. ,r Agencies !n all
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, Lond/on.
The RED PAGE
George Meredith, Novelist
JN his old age George Meredith was,
by the unanimous tribute of his
contemporaries, acclaimed a classic.
And the security of his supremacy in the
literary world was indicated, even before
his death, by a number of critical estimates
of his life-work. At least four* of these
books repay examination. For the reader
who knows not Meredith, or is vaguely
affrighted by his reputation for obscurity,
R. H. P. Curie’s work is recommended as
an easy introductory primer. It is little
more than a compilation of the other
critical estimates of Meredith, disfigured
by heavy slabs of prosings by the bio-
grapher, comparable only to the dulness
of Dr. Shrapnel. These may be skipped,
and the beginner may dally with
the many dainty tit-bits of quota-
tion scattered through the book. For
there is no surer way to decoy a reader
into a debauch of Meredith than to titil-
late his appetite with a Meredith meta-
phor. And Meredith uses metaphor with
the every-day ease with which we use
words. The biography of M. Sturge
Henderson is more elaborate; and for
the reader who starts without a general
knowledge of Meredith’s purpose this
book is most valuable. It consists mainly
of full, almost over-brimming commen-
taries on, and explanations of, each of
Meredith’s works. Trevelyan’s admirable
-study is devoted to the poems; but
here we are concerned only with Mere-
dith, the novelist.
Elmer J. Bailey, however, is for the
literary man, the best of these critics.
He makes plain the consistent purpose
and well-ordered system of philosophy
which runs throughout his wofiks, the
inter-relation of the novels and poems, and
the growth of Meredith’s mind. Bailey
shows that Meredith isno isolated and inex-
plicable phenomenon : he owed immensely
to his predecessors and contemporaries ;
and throughout his long career he labori--
ously built up his method and perfected
himself in the use of his instrument.
Each novel owed something, not only to
his previous novels, but to the novels of
his compeers and predecessors. A net-
work of analogies and similarities binds
his novels into a firm and consistent
fabric. It will be seen, for instance,
that taking the enormous world of Mere-
dith’s characters—-Bailey furnishes an
index of them, thirty-two pages in length
—its chief inhabitants, if not all of one
nation, are plainly all of one family.
The most casual reader, for instance, will
recognise again and again the plain, slow,
reserved Englishman who in the end of
each novel gets the more-or-less shop-
soiled girl. This is quite evidently
Meredith’s ideal type.
As to Meredith’s position at the head
of English novelists, Bailey advances the
fact of Meredith’s far-reaching influence
upon all recent writers. Upon this
page we have seen Snaith, Galsworthy,
Hewlett coming under that compelling
spell; and in Bailey’s list he aptly
includes Du Maurier, H. G. Wells
{Love and Mr. Lewisham ), Charles Mar-
riott {The Column ), W. J. Locke, and
even Mrs. Campbell Praed and Patchett
Martin. If Bailey, by any conceivable
adventure, had heard of Bernard O’Dowd
he would certainly have included him in
that list. Also, it must not be forgotten
that both Thomas Hardy and George
Gissing have admitted that it was solely
Meredith’s encouragement, as publishers’
reader, that led them to devote them-
selves to writing.
The reason why Meredith is the master
novelist of England is probably that
he is not an Englishman. He came of
the only two quick-witted partners in
that complex of nationalities called the
British Isles—the Welsh and the Irish
—both Celtic races. Having succeeded
in becoming a ward in chancery, he was
sent to Germany for education; and
returning to England, studied law, only
to abandon it quickly for journalism.
He was war-correspondent for a London
paper during the Austro-Italian war of
1866. He has edited the Fortnightly
Review, and for many years he was reader
and literary adviser to a big London
firm of publishers. He married twice.
At the age of twenty-three Meredith
published an immature book of verse,
which two critics declared strongly
showed the influence of Keats. Meredith
and Keats ! His first novel, The Shaving
of Shagpat, appeared in his twenty-
eighth year ; and two years later that re-
markable novel, The Ordeal of Richard
Feverel, dropped without a splash into
the reviewers’ paper-baskets, except for a
long and laudatory notice in The Times.
Yet Meredith had not escaped the notice
of great writers. George Eliot, Kings-
ley, Rossetti, James Thomson had all
praised him, while Carlyle commented,
“This man’s no fule ! ” But the appre-
ciation of the fit does not sell books ; and
Meredith had to wait till he was fifty-
seven years of age—an old man—before
he scored his first popular success. And
even the sudden popular demand for
Diana of the Crossways was, in the first in-
stance, due to the fact that it was
known to have been founded upon a
then recent sensational divorce-case !
In order to understand the novels of
Meredith it is necessary to know England.
Thus the Australasian who has had no
chance of living in an English county
necessarily misses in these novels those
subtle touches—those finishing touches—
which complete his series of great pic-
tures. In fact, while Meredith is most
at home in the country house, his obser-
vation is so wide, his knowledge of human
nature so subtle, that in these novels he
has for us created England. If the
British Isles were suddenly overwhelmed
by an immense tidal wave, and much
can be said both for and against such an
occurrence, from Meredith’s novels we
could—if the thing was considered neces-
sary—reconstruct the England of the
nineteenth century.
The average reader—and it must not be
forgotten that the average reader peruses
the World’s News and the Woman’s
Budget —if advised to read Meredith,
will refrain on the plea that Meredith is
dreadfully obscure. Of course, it is the
average reader that is obscure ; but it is
not tactful to tell him and her. G. K.
Chesterton aptly remarks :
The works of George Meredith are, as it
were, obscure even when we know what
they mean. They deal with nameless emo-
tions, fugitive sensations, sub-conscious cer-
tainties and uncertainties, and it really
requires a somewhat curious and unfamiliar
mode of speech to indicate the presence of
these.
But there are charges that can be
validly brought against Meredith—
charges of wilful dulness and wanton
obscurity. There are times in Mere-
dith’s stories when he apparently says,
“ Now, I’m going to be dull. I want to
be dull, to be brilliantly dull—-and I
will! ” And he does—and, after you
have read the story to the end, it will
pay you to return to those grey patches
and re-read them. This matter of ob-
scurity, Henderson rightly points out, is
much overrated. The present writer will
admit that when a youth he stumbled
through Meredith in a dazed yet hopeful
way. But on a second and third reading
of his works the alleged obscurity was so
lost that its absence was not even de-
tected. The fact, of course, was that it
was the reader’s brain that was obscure.
Curie gives an explanation of the evolu-
tion of the Meredithian style which we
can apply only to those cases of wilful
obscurity, not forgetting Chesterton’s
general statement for the defence.
Meredith, failing in the best years of
his life to win an adequate public for his
work, took to writing for himself—to
addressing his own intelligence—and in
doing so, overestimated the alertness of
other people’s minds.
The stumbling-block of the Meredithian
is the novelist’s habit of leaving out the
unessential; and most of us cannot get
along without the sustaining prop of the
trite. His mind flashes from metaphor
to metaphor, and he gives you the result
compressed, concentrated and canned,
without a superfluous adjective or an
unnecessary verb. To him the common-
place is a common basis of his writing ;
but once the work is done he takes down
the scaffolding. Thus it is that the
reader has often painfully to put up the
scaffolding again to mount to his mean-
ing. Meredith was writing for more subtle
minds, and his fame tardily grew when
those minds arrived to appreciate and
understand. Judging by the rate of
progress, in forty years’ time Meredith
will be as popular as —say —Corelli was
the year before last.
In his admirable survey of Meredith’s
work, E. J. Bailey divides the novels in-
to four main periods, each group of work
occupying approximately ten years.
There is first the work of the apprentice
(Shagpat, etc.) ; then that of the journey-
man ( Feverel , etc.); and finally that of
the master-workman, divided into two
decades : first, the period of free inven-
tion which produced The Egoist, etc. y
and, second, the period of concentrated
interest [Diana, etc.). The first decade
showed the apprentice widely and wildly
experimenting with English, Arabian
and German models. The journeyman,
in turn, was strongly influenced by his
literary predecessors and contemporaries ;
and Bailey points out how much Mere-
dith owed to Sterne, Eielding, Richard-
son, Dickens, Thackeray and George Eliot.
In this period Meredith made his system-
atic attack on sentimentalism and sham.
In the next decade, the master-workman
made his tremendous exposure of egoism ;
and in his last period -he centred himself
about a single problem, the unhappy
marriage—his sustained and brilliant
attack upon conventional ideas of matri-
mony. And though he ceased writing
some time ago—unless the' rumor be true
that he has left ready two manuscripts
for publication—it was evident that
Meredith had this subject at heart up to
the end from his startling pronouncement
in a London paper in 1904 :
Certainly, however, one day these present
conditions of marriage will be changed.
Marriage will be allowed for a certain period,
say ten years, or, well I do not want to
specify any particular time. ... It will be a
great shock, but look back and see what
shocks there have been, and what changes
nevertheless have taken place in this
marriage business in the past!
What, then, is Meredith’s position in
the literary world, what his claim to a
permanent fame ? Bailey places Meredith
as the greatest of modern English
novelists; but he is not Shakespeare.
Curie points out that Meredith is al-
ways his own keenest critic.
The frequent startling failures of great
writers must always make us wonder at
their amazing unselfconsciousness. You
will not find in Meredith any of these
abnormal lapses or constant descents into
feebleness. , Naturally his work is not
all on the same level ; but there is
always the feeling that he has himself
under his own eye. In fact, he is one of
the most self-conscious of authors. . . .
The aphorism, which Meredith continu-
ally and most brilliantly uses, is one of
the most self-conscious of literary pro-
ductions, and Meredith is, perhaps, the
most self-conscious of aphorists. Into
his poetry this self-restraint and self-
consciousness too often intrude, rendering
him the philosopher instead of the poet.
But for all the aspects of Meredith’s
wide-ranging genius no critical study can
help us. It is necessary merely to read
the books. Yet these critics bring out a
number of interesting points. Thus, one
shows that Meredith could, when he chose,
discard all pretence of a plot, and yet
write his most brilliant book.
All that Meredith undertook to do in
the seven hundred pages of what has
come to be regarded as his greatest work
(The Egoist ) was to show how a youmr
woman broke an unwelcome engagement!
Hendei son points out that once or twice
Meredith threw off his self-restraint, and
quite unphilosophically, instead of keep-
ing his characters on the pin-point of
observation, permitted himself frankly to
fall in love with them. Thus he unfairly
took A 1 van’s side in The Tragic Come-
dians ; and he was grossly partial to the
failings, and attempted to excuse them of
Diana.
And what, finally, is Meredith’s great-
est achievement 1 It is well put by one
of our critics as «the discovery, analysis,
revelation of the idealist impulse in
comedy.” Meredith discovered the savin"
virtue and the medicine of the laugh—
the laugh that is directed at one’s own
self, the laugh that shrivels all senti-
mentalisms and shams. So, with this
wreath upon his fame, we will leave £< the
last of those great creative artists whose
novels bear nearly the same relation to
the reign of Victoria as the dramas of
the sixteenth century bear to that of
Elizabeth.”
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
*The Poetry and Philosophy of George Meredith,
fey G. M. Trevelyan (Constable).
The Novels of George Meredith, by E. J. Bailey
(Unwin).
George Meredith: Novelist, Poet, Reformer, by
M. Sturge Henderson (Methuen).
Aspects of George Meredith , by Richard H. P.
Curie (Routledge, per Dymock’s Library).
Meredith on Swinburne
To-morrow earth will take to her bosom
the most spontaneous singer of all her Eng-
lish children. Song was his natural voice.
When he fell to prose it was but the torrent
of his unrhymed verse. As far as our lan-
guage would submit to his ardor, he was an
improvisator. The theme dictated the
measure, the rhymes flew to their places,
the rush of the lyric sped on unwaveringly.
Had Italy been native to him he would have
borne the renown of a poet fired on the
instant to deliver himself orally. And had
he been Italian, the glow of a people’s adora-
tion would have clad him during life.
We know what has been said of the genus
irritabile by equable Horace. They can re-
taliate. But it should be added that, except
when satirising a Propertian clique, they are
the most generous of men in dealing with
their fellows whom they see to be true poets.
We have the example of Rossetti writing to
the editor of a penny weekly paper in praise
of verses he had read by chance in his
columns. Tennyson, in the height of his
fame, could write of envy of a youngster’s
first effort. Swinburne was as whole-hearted
and as prompt, and in his case curiously
flattering. It happened that he was ex-
pected one day on a visit to me, and he
being rather late, I went along the road
to meet him. At last he appeared, waving
the white sheet of what seemed to
be a pamphlet. He greeted me with
a triumphant shout of a stanza new to my
ears. This was Fitz Gerald’s Omar Khay-
yam, and we lay on a heathery knoll beside
my cottage reading a stanza alternately,
indifferent to the dinner-bell, until a pro-
longed summons reminded us of appetite.
After the meal we took to the paper-covered
treasure again. Suddenly Swinburne ran
upstairs, and I had my' anticipations. He
returned with feather-pen, blue folio-sheet,
and a dwarf bottle of red ink. In an hour
he had finished 13 stanzas of his ‘ ‘ Laus
Veneris, ” and rarely Can one poet have paid
so high a compliment to another as Fitz-
Gerald received.
Those who follow this great poet to his
grave may take to heart that the name of
Swinburne is one to shine star-like in Eng-
lish literatue, a peer among our noblest.
G.M., in “ The Times,” April 15['09.
Great hopes have lean offspring.
Barriers are for those who cannot fly.
Speech is the small change of silence.
A metaphor is the deus ex machina of an
argument. v
Poetry : Those that have souls meet their
fellows there.
Observation is the most enduring of the
pleasures of life.
What a woman thinks of women is the
test of her nature.
There is nothing the body suffers that the
soul may not profit by.
Which is the coward among us ?— He who
sneers at the failings of humanity.
Convictions are generally first impressions
that are sealed with later prejudices.
Muscular principles are sown only out in
the world; and, on the whole, with all their
errors, the worldly men are the truest as
well as the bravest of men.
G.M.


ik
aw
No. 1067— Handsome Salad Bowl, Painted
Porcelain, Electroplated Mounts, with
Service to match, 24/-
m
</j.
Ml
m
Wk jfiJ*
P"
No, 1025— Biscuit Box, Electroplate on Britannia
Metal, Chased Design, 32/-
Combination Breakfast Cruet, Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, 23/-
No. 1049—Entree Dishes, Oblong shape, Electro-
plate on Nickel Silver, 10in., choice design,
88/6 pair.
r 7
No. 1003— Revolving Butter Cooler, Electroplate
on Britannia Metal, Chased Design, 37/6.
No. 1020— Sugar Basin and Scoop, Electro-
plate on Britannia Metal, Handsomely
Engraved, 18/6.
Silverware Satisfaction
. . • AT . . •
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
No. 1022 Oak Biscuit Barrel,
Mounted Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, Chased Lid, 21/-
No. 1021—Oak Biscuit
Barrel, Mounted Elec-
troplate, on Nickel
Silver, 16/-
No. 995— Breakfast Cruet,
4 Ont-Glass Bottles, Elec-
troplate on Nickel Silver
Frame, 14/-
No. 1071— Epergnes, Electroplated on Britannia
Metal, Engraved; Glass Vase and Dish, height
about 18in., 40/r
Dinner Cruet, Electro-
plated on Nickel Silver,
6 Cut Glass Bottles,
35/-
-S3
No. 1024— China Biscuit
Barrel, mounted Electro-
plate on Nickel Silver,
Choice Design, 10/-
m
No. 998.- Lunch Cruet, Elec-
troplated on Nickel Silver, 4
Cut-Glass Bottles, 23/-
Write for Illustrated Price List of
Kitchenware and Household Iron=
mongery, posted free on application
No. 981— Cake Basket, Electroplated on Britannia Metal, Handsome
Design, Satin Chased, 26/6.
Our Illustrated Price List of
Presents to Suit Every Purse will
solve the Gift Problem. Send for
a copy, posted free.
No. 1011—Single Jam Dish. Electroplated on
Nickel Silver Frame, rich Ruby Glass Dish, 14/6
No. 959 -Combination Frame, Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, VEgg Cups and Spoons, Gold-
lined, Butter Dish and Knife, 18/6.
No. 1001— Oak Liquor Frame,, First Quality-
Electroplated Mounts, 3 Out-Glass Bottles,
Handsomely Finished, with Lock, 67/6.
No. 1047— Entree Dishes, Oval. Electroplate
on Nickel Silver, 10in., 56/- pair.
No. 986— Double Pickle Jar, Electroplate on
Britannia Metal Frame, Covers and Tongs,
Glass Jars, 18/6.
Fish Carvers, Silver Handles, Electroplated Blades, in Handsome Silk-lined Case, 27/-
No. 975— Card Receiver, Prettily Chased, 18/6.
Other designs to 62/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


UIIIT
AND OTHER
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE. CARSON S Co. Ltd.
Sydney’s Leading Skin Salesmen .
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
i, td.
SYDKTE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS. HIDES. TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade ™> BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question.
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cattle —Causes,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only' genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1 /-.
I W~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
mm
• \*
•f
Diminishing:
Cards.
Ordinary
Playing
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
er.
Co m p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struct i o n s ;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are (l)The Lightning
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6ci. each;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free any where, 4/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES ne “ ovly ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Ride only
BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock thepi. Art Catalogue fh
J. B. BROOKS &Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,'
England.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the cinccrest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. EHO. Ltd.,' FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
LOOK TOR THE REDi
| THADC' MARK I
[REG. IN U.S. PAT Office.l
When Buying Guns or Ammunition
This Winchester trade-mark is the hall-mark of guns and ammu-
nition as perfect as brains and experience, coupled with a com-
plete plant, can make them. The red Wis to guns, cartridges
and shotgun shells what the word “ Sterling” is to silverware.
For Your Protection ”Look for the Red W”
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN.
£lOOO Given Away
In Beautiful ana Costly Premiums
To everyone answering this advertisement we will
send FREE and postage paid a beautifully gold
finished Meppy Widow Bpooeh. We do
this to advertise our Egg Separators, 12 of which
we send you, to sell for us if you can at 6d. each,
then return us the money, and we will send you
free the premium you choose from our Catalogue,
comprising both Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Gold
Watches, and many other valuable and distinctive
premiums. Every prize guaranteed or money re-
funded. The Egg Separator is made of that lightest
of all metals, Aluminium ; is excellent value for 6d.,
sells on sight. After receiving the 12 Separators
leave one with each of your neighbours—tell them
to try it. You call next day, if they find it satis-
factory, they buy one, if not, they return it to you;
in this way the Separator will sell itself. Were our
Separators not what we claim for them we would
not ask you to leave them on trial. This is well
worth investigating as there is no money required
and we take all risk and send the Beautiful
Brooch Fpee with the Separators. Write at
May We
Hand You
One of
These ?
once before others get ahead of you.
ALUMINIUM MANUFACTURING C 0.346 George St„ Sydney, N.S.W.
Warehouse, rear Bank of Australasia.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
A GREAT SUFFERER
Tried Many Medicines.
“ There is no question of greater importance to a
community than health,’’ said Mr. George Alfred
Willis, of No. 7 Bourke Street, Zetland, when re-
cently engaged in conversation with a reporter,
“ for when that is lost matters remain at a stand-
still pending its recovery. That was my experi-
ence, at all events,” he continued, “ for when I
was taken ill some time back, I was not able to
get along at all.”
“Was your work of a laborious nature, Mr.
Willis?”
“ Carpentering—not the easiest job on earth,
you know ; but if it had been quill driving it would
have been all the same to me, as I had no energy
whatever. As a matter of fact, I was confined
to my bed, and things looked very blue, for I was
getting no assistance from the physic I was taking,
and it seemed to me that I was a done man. I
had read of Clements Tonic, and asked if I would
give myself a last chance with that remedy. A
relative who had used it said * yes,’ very emphati-
cally, and gave me her reasons.”
“ You were in such straits that you were willing
to accept almost any advice, I suppose? ”
“Well, you see, there was scarcely anything
left for me to take, and as all other remedies had
proved futile, what was the good of going back to
them ? So I soon got some Clements Tonic, and
what a God-send it was, too. I was just about as
low as I could be, not having been outside the
house for a fortnight, and if it hadn’t been that
Clements Tonic was taken just in the nick of time
my ailments may have taken such a hold on my
system as to have defied all efforts at eradication. I
think it was pleurisy that had seized me, and, oh !
what a terrible cough I had —so painful and so
exhausting, that each bout aggravated my feeble-
ness. A great deal of phlegm came away, and one
would almost think I had consumption, to judge
by the pallor of my cheeks and the shrunken
state of my body. The pains in my lungs were
very acute, making me dread the necessity of
drawing mv breath, as each time I did, a sensation
like a knife cutting made me writhe in agony. It
was not a life I cared to cling to, believe me,
for one would be far better off dead, and out of the
world altogether, than linger in such misery.
“ What kind of nourishment were you in the
habit of taking ? ” ‘
“ I was existing on cereal foods, and even that
there was a difficulty in digesting. Always head-
aches in the mornings, a nasty fur roofing mv
inouth, which made me continue washing it during
the night, the dryness, too, being troublesorfre ;
and at least two mornings in the week I would
find myself vomiting. I was pitifully nervous and
shaky, and my mind was not at ease, either day
or night. I could not help thinking that some
great trouble was hanging over my head, threat-
ening, like the sword of Damocles, to descend
with destruction at any moment, and to tell you
the plain truth, my life was a burden to me.”
“Were you long using Clements Tonic before
you felt any benefit ? ”
“Some little time passed before I noticed
an improvement, but then you must remem-
ber the circumstances—how thoroughly broken
down I was, and I think the marvel is
that I pulled round so well. But Clembnts
Tonic kept building me up, and restoring
my internal organs to a healthy state, until I was
as sound as possible. What a remarkable thing
Clements Tonic is to make a person eat—why,
even on the hottest days it gave me a good
appetite, and such a splendid remedy for nervous-
ness and insomnia, too. For years I had suffered
from giddiness in a bad form. If I stooped to lace
my boots or anything, when I rose up I’d seem to
go round like a top, and even when out walking
I’d give a sudden reel occasionally, like a man who
had been indulging in something stronger than
lemonade.”
“ Do you get those sensations now ?”
“No; they have quite left me, thanks to
Clements Tonic, and I have nothing to thank But
that medicine for ridding me of my cough, and
ultimately restoring me to the very soundest
health. So now you can publish these facts
broadcast.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, GEORGE ALFRED WILLIS, of 7 Bourlte Street, Zet-
land, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and Cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements —which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
i
Subscribed and declared
seventh day of February,
and eight, before me,
5]
at Waterloo, this twenty-
one thousand nine hundred
WILLIAM ALLEN. J.p.


The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger’s
%air Vigor
produces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
PreDared by Dr. J> C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., I.'.S.A*
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without qu<stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Cycles,
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3atO to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Him brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
■wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, tor free art catalogues
and our ttuecial otfer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO*, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
rfIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
bQoksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney,
DOROTHY DOWNES OF WHOM THE
STORY IS TOLD.
The story of mothers who
constantly use SCOTT’S Emul-
sion for their ailing* babies,
always embodies the highest
praise. Mrs. Downes, 7 George
Street, Erskineville, N.S.W.,
writes (21/8/08): “My little
daughter Dorothy was very
ill with bronchitis, rickets and
wasting disease, but after
taking SCOTT’S Emulsion for
a few months, she is now
perfectly healthy and strong,
and I am pleased to give
SCOTT’S the credit of saving
my child’s life.” A long and
continually increasing record
of mothers’ successes—that is
what best explains the dif-
ference between SCOTT’S and
every other emulsion.
Of all chemists and dealers in medicines.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CURE!
■ -■
DID YOU EVER STOP TO THINK”
Have you ever considered what trouble may arise from a
neglected Cough or Cold ? Beware of the “Hacking Cough,”
the “Slight Cold,” the “Trivial Hoarseness” —these are Natures
warnings that something is amiss with your respiratory system—
You require a soothing and healing remedy,
Bonnincton’s Irish Moss.
is an old friend and a tried medicine for Colds.
There is no preparation which will eradicate a troublesome Cough so
quickly and effectively. Insist upon having the genuine article —you will
get this if you say distinctly
I WANT “ BONNINGTON’S ”
IN USE 45 YEARS.
EVERY BOTTLE
CONTAINS A CURE!
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The “VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
»«Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity-
Average Dose. — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par*
of the Label.
Flat-Chested
[[[omen
Cannot Appear to
the Best Advantage.
Every woman is entitled to
have a full, rounded bosom
with pleasing curves and
figure. Don’t Stay Thin.
m
m
[4
u
DR. FALLIERE’S
Flesh-Food
55
puts on flesh at the rate of five pounds a
week, and rapidly develops the bust to nor-
mal. Your measurements increase rapidly,
and the improvement is lasting. This treat-
ment is positively harmless. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial and full particulars.
Falliere “Flesh-Food” Co-
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagii St.,
SYDNEY.
When Mosquitoes annoy you <
remember how useful, either for pre- \
venting the attack of these and other j
1 insects, or antiseptically cleansing their j
bites, so many people have found J
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for |
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard {
against infectious diseases. j
Sold by all Chemists and Stores. |
Made by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng,j
Q.“Bt Q
f £>nh
fade
JF"KINC'S
NORTON”
CARTRIDGES
Purposed for .22 calibre Rifle
Shooting:, these British-made
cartridges are of the very finest
shootiug quality. The hollow
point bullet is recommended fot
sporting—the long and short solid
point for .rifle practice. Specify
King’s Norton” from your
Ammunition Dealer. Agents:
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
THE CELEBRATED
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened by patented improvements, and there are no
irritating seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this mark
on every garment.
ANY GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters.
JA
*
MARK
TRADE
o
Wholesale only—l. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.
By Appointment to
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRIL
is ALL beef—prime beef in a readily digestible form.
That is why BOVRIL is so invigorating a beverage, so
strengthening a food, why Cooks find it so useful, why Doctors
•and Nurses recommend it, why the sensible housewife will
have nothing in place of it.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bugles of the Dawn.
There’s the bugle crisply calling
With its clear, insistent note,
And the gallant sound-words falling
From its brazen warrior’s throat.
Make a message: “Rise, my soldiers! Rise!
Make ready for the fray ! ”
(So across the dew-drenched hillside comes the
voice at break of day).
“Rise, my soldiers!
And make ready !
And make ready !
For—the—fray !” .
There’s the bugle sharply warning,
With the quick notes of alarm,
’Mid the lazy mists of morning
Urging us to rise and arm ;
Shrill and fast the message ripples : “ Haste, my
soldiers ! Day is here ! ”
And the sleepy echoes, waking, take the cry up
far and near :
“ Haste, my soldiers !
Haste, my soldiers !
Haste, my soldiers !
Day—is—here ! ”
There’s the bugle fiercely singing
To the ranks its battle lore.
As the regiment goes a-swinging
Forward with a sullen roar ;
Up the reeking heights it leads them, singing,
singing’mid the din
To its grimed and bloody henchmen : “ Soldiers !
soldiers ! you must win !
O my soldiers !
Soldiers ! soldiers !
Forward, soldiers !
You —shall—-win ! ”
There’s the mournful bugle wailing
Its last message o’er the brave,
As the night with black is veiling
From the world their shallow grave ;
And the tender notes come floating as the sun
within the west
Sinks in scarlet clouds of glory: “Onward,
soldiers, to your rest!
O my soldiers !
Farewell, soldiers !
Onward, soldiers!
To —Jour —rest! ”
N.S.VV.
E. FRANCIS.
Sydney at Sunset.
Nightly the gradual pageant is unroll’d
Before my wondering eyes,
The pure vermilion and the rose and gold
And pearl of sunset skies.
Here, from my window, through these magic
hours
I gaze across the bay
Where Sydney lifts to Heaven all her towers,
Dark at the death of day.
Sydney, my Sydney ! All thy domes and spires
Stand clear against the west ;
And lights spring out to kindle little fires
Of love within my breast.
Now through the gardens, blurred as if with rain,
The Dusk goes by unseen,
And, passing, draws her mantle once again
Across the gold and green.
It hides the slopes where Sunlight lingered last,
It overspreads the trees,
Finding and folding all the beauty fast
By soft and slow degrees.
No more the western heaven gleams and glows ;
The gold turns grey. A star
Breaks through the darkness. Dim the shore-line
grows.
And dim the waters are.
But there across the water lies the town,
Her windows jewel-bright—
Sydney, on whom both sun and stars look.down
With so much love and light.
N.S.W.
RUTH BEDFORD.
Berber Blood.
Runs a straight, white stretch of metal.
Wide the desert sands and yellow,
By the big-eyed cattle browsing
And the cornfields goldly mellow ;
Deep the date-palms fringe th’ oases,
And the sweet south day is drowsing
In the arms of sweetheart summer,
And a peace broods over all.
But the Berber blood has broken
Through the bonds of worn-out ages,
Till I tire of silken lappings,
And a nomad unrest rages ;
For I know my tribe is riding
In its gaudy, tasselled trappings
Through the wind-swept desert silence
That comes drifting down the years.
Far there whirls a mad sirocco
Where the man bones, bleaching starkly,
Glare a warning up to Heaven,
Till the swept sand, swirling darkly,
Eddies o’er and round about them,
Cov’ring deep this sorrow leaven ;
And the old Wind Empress holds them
At a ransom unto time.
But the tribal blood throbs hotly
’Gross the star-lit, stretching spaces,
Through the long years in the north land
And across the crossing races,
Till it wakes a splendid vision—
Fiercely sun-smit leagues of sand,
And the brown men riding gauntly
’Gainst the sunset glare of flame.
S.A.
LILLIAS GORDON.


“A Well Decorated House
Is Permanently Attractive."
Wunderlich designs in Metal add that distinctive charm to
the ceilings and wall-linings that maKes the home perman-
ently attractive. And their long lasting qualities commend
them from an economical standpoint.
Every taste is catered for and handsome combinations can
be devised if desired.
The low cost of transportation and their immunity from
fire maKes these productions a great boon to country house-
holders.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms! - Postal Address* Melbourne Showrooms!
56 PITT ST. Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney. 243 COLLINS ST.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open', 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
< ■» i i
Tt' t\
~ V
• v n »
V *- •« V V ■}
CLOSED AS COUCH.
"fai
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable*
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
SYDNEY.
~
mm
mmmmm
Wmmßm
BesT- riaJ/ & CertH/p' &qo
WitKoi/t^ -W&\ • To-D&y* -
R
155
3
PT)
Alcock&cq
Elizabeth 5 t Melb
-amd
7Geon3e>'3y(li\^
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
FOR
mm
E.RICH & C 9 I*~°, SYDNEY Sc BRISBANE,
AVENARIUS is not only a cure for
WHITE ANTS, but the best Wood-
Preserving oil Known. It strength-
ens the life of the best timber, and
doubles the life of weak timber.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane,
WHOLESALE AGENTS:


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Olhce, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1529.
THURSDAY, JUNE 3, 1909.
Pl!IOI£ f)D
JOSEPH MOSES BREAKING THE TABLES OF THE LAW.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
teems to subscribers.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tuk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every treelc for a . year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
to he addressed to William M act,hod, Managing Director.
Jlotr to A<l it re.is Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin' would, oblige, the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with, regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be. addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojlicials. The person may not be there; the official
aheays is.
Sjtecinl Tint ice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neiespaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. trill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
•are observed. IF hen I\IS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not. responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllaol:. and White,.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 liigh Ilolborn, London. IF.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, /M Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A .—lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents' Sj>ec.i<tl Notice.
Tin? Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6sin. x 1/J.n.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
tfc^S&aZleltfa.
THURSDAY, JUNE 3, 1909.
THE FUSED CIRCUMSTANCE.
The long-postponed event has happened, and the
Deakin, Cook, and Forrest parties have fused,
according to the expression of the moment, for
the sake of office and profit, even as David once
fused with the Philistines and Israel fused with
false gods. The chief objection being to the
caucus system of the Labor men, the three parties
above mentioned naturally called a caucus each
and fixed things up. Sturdy old William Lyne
certainly stands out, and intimates that in future
he doesn’t even want to meet his old leader and
old friend, Alfred Deakin, in the street, or to see
him accidentally in a public-house having three-
penn’orth of refreshment. Chanter of N.S.W.,
Storrer of Tasmania, and Wise of Gippsland,
are also dissentients. But, despite these fallings-
away, it has been a very successful Fusion —for the
time and up to a certain point. Especially has it
been successful —for the time—in the material in-
terests of Alfred Deakin, who has proved him-
self an astute fisher of men, and by hanging
the prawn of office at the end of the line
of opportunity, he has caught Joseph Cook in a
really remarkable fashion. For weeks Deakin
blew hot and blew cold. Sometimes he even didn’t
blow at all. Once he blew so hard'by declaring
that he wouldn’t take any office whatever in his
own coalition that the nearly-completed edifice
fell down right there, and had to be wholly
rebuilt. He advanced and retreated. He went
away to the seaside, possibly for mixed bathing,
and left, apparently in contempt, one of the least
capable members of his party to represent him.
And it seems that every time Deakin drifted
away, the office-hungry Cook— he hasn’t even
seen office on the horizon since the Commonwealth
was founded —threw another of his principles
overboard to lighten the ship, so that he
might row more desperately after him. And
when Cook had thrown quite a lot of his top-
hamper overboard the parties fused. Alfred
Deakin, though he leads the smallest of the three
parties, is to get the Prime Ministership, when the
dead men’s shoes are vacant, and become the
head of the biggest section of the House. Cook
drops into second place. A proposal that he
should be leader was treated with scorn, and the
new Ministry isn’t apparently to be even the
Deakin-Cook Ministry, but the Deakin Ministry
pure and simple. Deakin has practically swal-
lowed the Cook party, and if it will stay swal-
lowed there may be a fairly long spell of office
ahead of Alfred the Affable. On the other
hand, there may not. The three fused parties
only scraped up a majority of nine against the
Fisher following, and four of its men sit in the
corner by way of asserting their independence,
while a fifth— Reid —declares publicly that he will
have no truck with any of the Fusion’s tariff
arrangements, and he casts them off as if they
were a sea-serpent.
* * * *
The Cook party gets a subordinate share of the
good things that are going at the sacrifice of the
policy which it has declared all its life to be
practically ' the one thing in politics worth
living for and dying for. Freetrade lias gone
overboard. Protection is to be recognised as the
fixed and accepted policy of the country, and not
only is the present tariff to remain, but any
changes are to be in a Protectionist direction.
There are to be no more struggles for the
“glorious principle of human liberty,” and so
forth. Bruce Smith and Willy Kelly and
their kind, receive orders to immediately swallow,
accept, support, and believe in a doctrine which
they have all their lives declared to be wicked and
unprincipled, also ruinous, and in every way con-
trary to common-sense and sanity. In fact, accord-
ing to their own frequent assertions, they are to be-
come fools, idiots, and public enemies. If they
and others like them fail to do this, the Fusion is
bound to unfuse again, and then all the trouble
will be wasted. Also the nigger-labor Bruce
Smith has got to believe in White Australia for
the future, which, seeing that he hasn’t a hope of
office to repay him for the mental effort, is rough
on Bruce Smith. The whole State Frights push
has to adhere to the idea of the transfer of the State
debts to the Commonwealth, which means a
great increase of Federal influence and a great
diminution of mere State importance ; and there
are other sacrifices besides. Worst of all, the
members of the Cook-Reid-Smith-Forhest-
Irvine push seem to have agreed that they were
lying when they declared Deakin, at last General
Election, to be a dangerous incendiary and a reck-
less public enemy; also when they alleged, in
earlier years, that he drowned the Petriana sailors
and outrageously imprisoned the Six Blathers. In-
stead of being all the bad things then alleged, he
is a patriotic, capable, and high-nlinded gentle-
man, under whose political banner they are proud
to serve. Also the Argus, S. M. Herald,
Sydney Telegraph, and other like papers have
to revise their views about Deakin, the alleged
Socialist, incendiary, drowner of helpless sailors,
and tyrannical oppressor of maddened hatters.
And next election, if the Fusion lasts till then,
they will have to urge their readers to vote against
the militant Foreign-trade candidate—the one who
declares that the Protectionist policy of Deakin
and Cook is ruining the country, and that the
glorious gospel of Cobden is worth fighting for.
They will have to say that the glorious gospel of
Cobden isn’t worth fighting for, and that the
country isn’t being ruined by Protection—or else
that it is being ruined, but that they are quite
willing that the process should continue till ruin
is complete. Further, it will be necessary for the
Herald and Telegraph to go slow with the old
denunciations of Victoria and “Victorian con-
spiracies,” for the Fusion may not be able to
stand much rough handling. Yet it is a hard
case. A Victorian, though he brought the
smallest following into the partnership, is Prime
Minister; the Victorian Tories declined to fuse
otherwise. And though Cook of N.S.W. is
second in command and heir to the throne, a large
section of the fusers proclaim their objection to
him so frankly that it isn’t likely his nominal
heirship will bring him any profit; apparently
many of his alleged followers would sooner cease
to be fused than have him for their leader. But
it will be really necessary even for the maddest
anti-Victorian papers to shout in a low tone re-
garding these matters. There are enough materi-
als for ill-feeling inside the Bedlam of the fused
party without adding State animosities to the list
of troubles.
* * * *
The full beauty of the situation is not likely to
dawn on the Joseph Cook and Bruce Smith end
of the Fusion till the time of the General Election.
Then the situation will probably become strained.
In Protectionist electorates there should be no
very great trouble. The Fusion having not only
agreed to the maintenance of the Tariff as it now
stands, but committed itself to the promise
that any future alterations will be in the
direction of Protection, the High Tariff
electorate will, in many cases, cheerfully
accept the Government candidate sent down
to it, unless his Toryism is too awful for
words; and it will be a straight run be-
tween him and the Labor man. In many
cases the Government candidate will win, to the
greater glory and benefit of the Deakin end of the
Fusion. If a Foreign-trade candidate is put up
against him that fact won’t split the High Tariff
vote, though it may split the anti-Government vote
which would otherwise have gone solidly to the
Labor candidate, and the strength and glory of
the Deakin end of the Fusion will be still further
en h an ced. Butin Foreign - trad e el ectorates a great
gloom is likely to fall. There will be (1) the Labor
candidate ; (2) the Foreign-trade Government can-
didate pledged to Protection ; and (3) to split the
Government candidate’s support and let the
Labor man in on a minority vote, there will often
be the genuine old crusted Foreign-trader—the
irreconcilable—full of wrath at the “ iniquitous
alliance ” with Protection —the man with the
banner of Cobden in his hand, and his mouth full
of denunciations of those who had basely aban-
doned the shoddy faith. That sort of thing will
be very bad for the Joe Cook end of the Fusion.
And the probable result will be that, when the
Fusion goes to pieces later on and resolves
itself into its old component parts, there will
emerge a gr-eatly strengthened Labor party, a
slightly strengthened Deakin party, and the
mere ruins of Joe Cook and his following.
* * * *
Cook, however, isn’t alone in his troubles.
Alfred Deakin has also made sacrifices for
Fusion—sacrifices that were not worth while.
He has thrown over old reliable friends in order
to join with old enemies and ancient scoffers. He
has given up his own judgment on the essential
question of universal military training, by agree-
ing that Roberts or Kitchener should be re-
quested to visit this country and decide
what is best to be done. Probably they
will both refuse to come, and then the
question will be hung up; and whether they
come or not, the agreement makes Australia look
a poor, ridiculous place with no mind of its own.
Again, Deakin has impaired his dignity by joining
himself with men some of whom reviled him
as something little short of a murderer over
the matter of the drowned Petriana myth. He
has smoothed the way for a coalition which is
to raise him to the Prime Ministership by defi-
nitely abjuring the Federal progressive land-tax,
and by so doing he has given over his own State—
the one which used to regard him as its noblest
son—to misery and disaster. Very many of the
country districts of Victoria are going to rum and
depopulation by reason of the oppression of the
great landlords. Young men are leaving whole-
sale because, in a fertile State where there, are
onlv 14 persons to the square mile, the stupendous
earth-grabber has made the acquisition of a bit of
land practically impossible, and, by reason of
this, Victoria is becoming a province of very old
people and children. With a much smaller
population than N.S.W., it has 20,000 more
inhabitants whose years and incapacity
qualify them for the old-age pension. It has, in
proportion to population, less births than the
Australian average, less marriages, and far more
deaths. The only hope lies in breaking up the
big estates in order that there may be abundant
room for vigorous young settlers who will marry
and bring up children, and won’t need to apply
for the old-age pension. Victoria can do nothing
to save itself in this matter, for its immovable,
unpatriotic House of Landlords blocks the way,
but it had hoped for salvation by means of the
Federal progressive land-tax. It looked to Dear IN.
and Deaicin has fused miserably and left his
native State in the lurch. What else Deakin has
abandoned for the sake of being the figurehead of
a semi-Tory party—whether he has thrown over
the Northern Territory and the two great rail-
roads and other things besides—is not known yet.
At any rate, Deakin the Democrat is the man
who brought about the downfall of a Cabinet that
was pledged to his own naval and military
defence policy, his own immigration policy,
his own New Protection, his own pet railway
to Westralia, his own plan for taking over
the State debts, his own White Australia ideal,
and his own creed of the maintenance of the ex-
isting tariff. Joseph Cook, who is against almost
everything Australian, looks not at all out of
place in voting against that kind of Ministry ; but
when Alfred Deakin does it, people can only
sigh, and remark that the things some men will
do for the sake of office are indeed wonderful.
The material profit of the Fusion seems to be
mostly Deakin’s, though events may prove other-
wise; but the disgrace is shared pretty equally.
* * * *
The Fusion is further handicapped by the fact
that it had its beginnings in the Dreadnought
craze. The first point of meeting between
Deakin and Cook was their joint readiness to
seize about £2,000,000 of the people’s money
and make a present of it to a Government
12,000 miles away. They proposed to do this
without letting the people have a chance to ex-
press their opinion on the matter either at a
general election or per medium of a Referendum,
and despite the fact that the people, by their flat
refusal to find the required amount in the shape
of private subscriptions, had really, announced
their emphatic objection to the whole absurd
business. In fact, the Fusion had its beginnings
in a scheme for a gigantic misappropriation of the
cash —a huge act of political dishonesty. That
alone is a fairly heavy handicap. And on top of
all, the Fusion has now to sit down and work out
the details—not the mere glittering generalities,
but all the small particulars —of a policy which
will satisfy Irvine, Knox, Bruce Smith, For-
rest, and Agar Wynne on the one hand, and
Mauger, Crouch, Humf. Cook, Arthur Tren-
with and Jabez Coon on the other. If the Fused
Ministry does things of any importance, it is
almost certain that .by election day Forrest won’t
be speaking to Mauger, and the only kind words
that will be passing between Bruce Smith and
Jabez Coon will be bricks. And if it gets over
the difficulty by doing nothing, there will pro-
bably be a great scarcity of cats after polling-day,
all the visible cats having been thrown at Govern-
ment candidates. If the Labor party would only
get out of its silly habit of sinking the fiscal issue
—if it would expel from its ranks the Foreign-
trade traitors who want to flood this country with
the products of nigger and Chinese cheap labor in
order to destroy the white Australian workman’s
work and wages, and would become the party of
High Protection—it would probably sweep the
polls at next election. But there seems little hope
of it doing anything so sensible as that.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
N.S.W.’s Own Surveyor on Yassberra.
N.S.W. Government Surveyor Scrivener has
completed his report on the Sydney daily news-
papers’ chosen Federal capital site, and, as the
S. M. Herald owns drearily (31/5/’O9), “ it does
not favor the Yass-Canberra site for the capital of
the Commonwealth.'’ The Herald sums up the
N.S.W. Government Surveyor’s views on the site
the N.S.W. Government has barracked for so
strenuously as follows :
A serious part of his criticism is that which relates to
the water supply.
This admission is wrung from the paper by the
following pronouncements of the expert, whose
professional reputation depends on supplying
sound judgments in cases of this kind :
A survey has been made of about 34 square miles. . . .
Weirs for ornamental purposes are recommended at four
different sites. At any of these places the weirs raised to
the 1825 ft. level would impound water covering an area
of from 1100 to 1500 acres. This water, however, would
be badly discolored for long- periods. . . . One effect of
the construction of any one of these weirs would be the
gradual reduction of the depth of water by the deposition
of silt, which is brought down by the Molonglo in very
large quantities.
The Cotter River cannot be regarded as a satisfactory
source from which to obtain a water supply. ... A much
cheaper supply of water for domestic purposes could be
obtained from the Queanbeyan than from the Cotter ;
but if this river were used it would be necessary to make
provision for storing at least one month’s supply, and
possibly for filtration. It would also be essential to re-
strict stocking. This would reduce the value of the land.
The Molonglo carries too little water to be alone of
much use for power purposes, and as mining is carried on
in the upper river, its waters could not be used for town
supply.
Then the Herald speaks again in its leading
article: —
Another question dealt with in this report is that of
railway communication between Canberra and Jervis
Bay. No very serious constructional difficulties are sug-
gested, but it is urged that much of the territory through
which a line would have to pass is of the poorest possible
description, and unlikely to carry any considerable popu-
lation.
Says Scrivener in this regard -
Speaking generally, the country between Shoalhaven
and Jervis Bay is of the poorest possible description, only
relieved by the few basaltic outcrops met with. It is
costly to ciear, and when cleared is of little value. Hence
it is unlikely in the near future to carry any considerable
population. The only settlement along this part of the
route is about Narrige and Sassafras. The former, a
hamlet comprising one hotel, a store, post office, and
school ; the latter place a group of about 12 occupied
holdings, the owners not being exceptionally prosperous.
This railway would not give access to any large amount
of useful timber.
Finally, on the remaining important capital site
feature handed by N.S. W.’s chosen survey expert,
the Herald has this to say :
Mr. Scrivener proceeds to pass judgment on the merits
of Jervis Bay as a harbor, and the general drift of his
criticism is that making- it a practicable port would be a
very expensive affair.
Taking the features that are most vital in the
case of a site that is to contain for all time the
capital of a great continent, this Government
official, who has all to lose by butting against
the expressed views of those in authority over
him, has been constrained, for his reputation’s
salte, to damn the said features utterly, one by one.
Even the sheets that were keenest about Yass-
berra have now to admit unwillingly that there is
something to be said for the view that their selec-
tion is a pretty hopeless one. But the Herald
says blandly :
The question is not, however, whether it is the ideally
most perfect site for a capital that could be found in
Australia, but whether it can be utilised with a fair
measure of success. Yass-Canberra represents a compro-
mise reached only after prolonged struggle, and the sane
thing to do is to be reasonably optimistic about it.
Which is to say that though Yassberra is a
wretched district with an inadequate and often-
times polluted water supply, a harborthat cannot
be rendered safe for shipping without the expendi-
ture of extravagant sums of money, and a soil
so poor, for the most part, that it will not
pay to run a railway through it, yet, because
the Sydney newspapers demand a site right
up against the doors of their delivery-cart stables,
all Australia is to “compromise” and “fuse”
with them in the matter, and accept the awful
place uncomplainingly. The audacity of the atti-
tude is so amazing that it almost deserves to suc-
ceed. However, the fixing of a capital site for a
mighty continent is of such tremendous import-
ance that it is fervently to be hoped the audacity
in this case won’t succeed.
■ ♦
The Straight Line—and South Australia’s
Grievance.
Sometime long ago, Prime Minister Deakin—
that was before the Fisher regime was thought
of—approached Premier Price of S.A. with pro-
posals for the transfer of the Northern Territory
to the Commonwealth. It was to be handed over
at the mere price of its debt; the two unfinished
bits of trans-continental railway (Port Darwin to
Pine Creek and Oodnadatta to Port Augusta)
were to be turned into a finished railway; the
Commonwealth was to own the line from sea to
sea. and Port Augusta was to be transferred to it,
so that the outlet at each end might be Pederal
property. It was an eminently wise and states-
manlike arrangement, though a very large crowd
in S.A. regarded it as a reckless throwing away
by the Crow-eater State of a valuable property
for a song. Price “bullocked” the proposal
through the S.A. Legislature in the face of much
opposition, and then the State sat down and
waited. It is still sitting down and still waiting,
and it begins to ask if this is all a very bad
joke. The Australian Parliament has every right
to reject the Deakin-Price agreement if it doesn’t
like it, .and S.A. fully recognises that fact. What
it complains of is that it can’t get an acceptance
or a rejection or any answer at all. There is a
majority in Parliament one way or the other—
either for or against the agreement—and the
reason why S.A. wails like a banshee at the Par-
liamentary keyhole is that it wants this majority
to declare itself. If the majority is for accept-
ance, then let it accept; if it is the other way,
then S.A. wants to know early that the agree
ment is off, so that it can resume the work of
building the trans-continental line on its own
account while seasons are still good and money
fairly plentiful. But the Parliamentary system
has fallen over its own feet as usual, and become
paralysed. There is nothing doing, save the
making and unmaking of Ministries. Nobody
need object to the making or unmaking of
Ministries, regarded as a pleasant amusement;
but when the amusement hangs up public
business for nearly a year, then it is time to say
hard things. It should be a simple matter
to ask the Parliament if it is in favor of
the Deakin-Price contract for the transfer
of the Territory or not; the proposal is
a non-party one, and a matter of immense
importance to Australia ; also it is a matter which
admits of the simplest possible yes or mo. But
one shaky Government after another is afraid to
wait long enough to ask the question, lest while
doing so it should lose its job. And there is
another point. Under the absurd Party Govern-
ment system a Ministry isn’t merely supposed to
take the sense of the House on a matter like this ;
it is also supposed to bet its joint and several port-
folio and its salary and job on the issue, which is
a silly and pernicious form of gambling, and one
which ought to be put down. As a result, when
there arises a great national question on which
the House is supposed to be very evenly divided,
it may be hung up for years pending the advent
of a G-overnment which is prepared to gamble its
situation on the chance that the decision will go a
certain way. It isn’t simply a question of saying
to the Representatives: “Are you in favor of
taking over the Territory and building the straight
line ? ” Under the foolish method which requires
a Government to go out of office when it guesses
wrongly or backs the incorrect horse, it is
expected to say: “We bet our chief visible
means of support that you are in favor of the
transfer of the Territory and the building of the
straight line.” That at once calls up the opposi-
tion of two sets of members : (1) those who don’t
believe in the proposal, and (2) those who do
believe in it but are prepared to say they don’t in
the hope of getting office themselves. It is the
want of an Elective Ministry with a fixed term of
office which makes it so difficult to get a plain
answer to a plain proposition, and it is that diffi-
culty about which S.A. is now angry. Once
already has Prime Minister Fisher maundered to
Adelaide to propose a variation in the agreement,
and a deviation of the trans-continental railway,
or something like that. Whereupon the S.A.
Government indignantly pointed out that it had
been asked by a Federal Prime Minister to
make a formal offer of the Territory on certain
conditions which he laid down ; that it had made
the offer on these exact conditions; and that it
wanted to know whether the Australian Parlia-
ment accepted or not before discussing alterations
or variations. As a mere matter of ordinary
table manners—the manners which tell a man not
to make a noise while consuming soup—the S.A.
Government held that it was entitled to an
answer. But Fisher shook his ears sorrowfully
and went away, saying in effect that things
weren’t done that way. And apparently they are
not. It looks as if the grandest opportunity
which ever came in Australia’s way may be lost,
simply because the Party Government machine
keeps falling over its own insane feet.
♦-
Joe Cook or £143,738?
On the morning when it was announced that
Deakin and Cook had “ fused,” and that the
leader of the old Freetrade party had thrown
over Freetrade and agreed to give Australia even
more Protection, it happened that the papei s
also printed the half-yearly results of the Bank of
New South Wales, the greatest of the Australian-
owned banks. And considering those figures the


amazing thing is, not that the Freetrade leader
wanted to get under the Protectionist um-
brella, but that the public hadn’t got rid of him long
since for being such a fool as to stay out in the
wet. The Bank of N. S. Wales got to business
in 1817 ; so that before Federation arrived, bring-
ing Protection with it, the institution had 84
years of life. During nearly 40 years of that time
there were only three or four other banks in Aus-
tralia, and a vast proportion of the available
business went its way ; nowadays it has to com-
pete, not only with 22 other banks, but with
various finance cos. which do a great amount of
exchange business, and with great insurance offices
which do a vast mortgage business. Yet, not-
withstanding the much more intense competition
during the past eight years of Federation (with
Protection practically all the time), here are the
figures at the end of 84 years of disunion, and the
figures at March 31, 1909 :
Increase
after 8
Mar., 1901, Mar., 1909, years of
after 84 after 8 Federation
years of years of and
Disunion. Federation. Protection.
Capital .. £2,000,000 £2,500,000 £500,000
Total undivided
profits .. 1,276,896 1,688,342 411,446
Deposits, etc. .. 25,426,428 32,107,776 6,681,348
Liquid assets .. 12,585,455 14,827,968 2,242,513
Advances .. 15,570,963 20,918,165 5,347,187
Year’s net profit 200,616 344,354 143,738
Prosperity isn’t an easy commodity to measure,
as a rule : for one reason, there is a prodigious
quantity of the bogus article on the market. But
here is a pretty good test, anyway. In 84 years
of Disunion, and alleged Freetrade, this bank put
by £1,276,896 of reserves ; in the next eight years
of Federation and Protection it put by £411,446,
and during that time it never paid less than 10
per cent, dividend. In the 84th year of Disunion
and alleged Freetrade, it showed a profit of
£200,616; in the eighth year of Federation and
Protection it showed no less than £344,354. And
it did this last after handing £IO,OOO over to the
Provident Fund, so that not merely the share-
holders, but the workers in the bank also, get a
slice of the wonderfully-improved joint. Nor is
the Bank of N. S. Wales unique. In proportion
to their 1901 figures, several others, in fact,
showed much larger movements. On the sheet
that furnished the figures for the last half-
year there was likewise printed a statement
to the effect that Joe Cook, on behalf of the
Freetrade party, had agreed that Protection
was the settled policy of the country, and
that he would help the country to get more of
it. Subsequently some doubt arose about the
wording of the agreement; it doesn’t seem as if
Cook did agree that Protection was the settled
policy of the country. In that case, so much the
worse for Cook. This country might be willing
to accept more of the good thing even from
Joseph ; but if he won’t agree to that, then the
simple question for the bank shareholder is:
“ Which do I prefer : Joe Cook or an increase of
£143,738in annual profits within eight years?”
Decayed Fish at Gundagai.
A Gundagai (N.S.W.) stock inspector named
Donald McPherson supplied the town and dis-
trict wherein he scrutinizes goats and things with
a characteristic slab of “imperialistic” oratory on
Empire Day. It seems that at Gundagai only
£2O has been subscribed in two months towards
the Dreadnought fund, while £2OO was recently
raised for the Irish Home Rule movement in
rather less than a quarter that time. To
Donald’s bucolic intellect the discrepancy sug-
gests that Gundagai is riddled with what his sort
calls “ disloyalty ” and “traitorism.” It appears
to him that a town which disbursed ten times
more for the Irish Home Rule cause than it did
for Allen Taylor’s warship must be seething
with rebellion—and he said so in a flood of wild
words, ending with the lying statement of John-
son of Lang, to the effect that—
The people who support the building of an Aus-
tralian fleet do so in the hope that the guns of the
navy will be one day turned against the ships of the
Old Country.
That, of course, is just the same as saying that
those who support Australian education do so in
the hope that the knowledge and intelligence
which the people acquire will be used, later on,
to organise evil deeds tending to the downfall of
the Empire. But why, in any case, should Donald
McPherson talk in this wild way? Donald
comes of a race which made the last serious in-
vasion of England, the last serious attempt to
occupy London with a hostile force, and the last
serious attempt to drag Edward Vll.’s family off
the throne ; and he also comes of a crowd which
made the last serious butchery of British soldiers
on British soil, in the service of a dynasty which
joyously invited foreign troops to invade Britain
in” its own interests. The McPhersons were
part of the savage kilted horde which practically
dismembered the Scottish kingdom for centuries,
and made it too weak for defence, and which
tried persistently to wreck the British kingdom
as well. Donald McPherson’s ancestors became
“loyal”, by being conquered, and trodden in the
dust, and having their kilts prohibited ; but there
are still large red-headed people in the
McPherson country—which lies next to the
country of the Mackintoshes (or Water-
proofs), and close to the land of the
Frazers and McKenzies and the Ranald
MacDonald crowd —who know no English, and
speak of a loyal British subject from Glasgow or
Edinburgh as a “ foreigner.” As regards
the subject of Donald’s complaint, the
discrepancy arises out of the simple fact that
whereas the Irish Home Rule movement is alive,
the absurd Dreadnought one is dead. A vital
cause will always attract big money, if the same
is needed ; not so a cause which has been interred
for weeks. No corpse collects cash. In himself,
this backblocks examiner of cattle, or cow-looker,
is of no importance ; it is as a horrible example of
a type that is growing all too common that he
calls for notice. This country is getting tired of
being vilified by mouthers of the McPherson clan
every time a Tory move ends in smoke. McPher-
son is own political brother to the human who
earns his living in Australia, and Australia has
consented to overlook the horribly disloyal re-
cord of the McPhersons. Yet because the
McPherson party disapproved of Australia’s
Immigration Act, it hastened joyously to
spread broadcast, a while ago, the libel that
the Commonwealth is a barbarous country,
which shoves wrecked niggers into the sea
to drown, and which consigns harmless hatters to
a dungeon. The cities are dotted with McPher-
sons who regularly, each time an instalment of
industrial legislation is foreshadowed with a view
to making the lives of the workers easier or
brighter, howl with a howl like that of the old
wolf along the treeless shores of Moray Firth that
Capital is on the run, and that chaos, bankruptcy
and Armageddon are in view. Other members of
the crowd may be met on any fine day in any public
street averring solemnly that the country is ruined
owing to (1) Federation, (2) the abandon-
ment of the Freetrade that was never here,
(3) the holding of office by Labor Minis-
tries, (4) the domination of Rome—and about
375 other equally plausible reasons. These
folk differ a good deal as to why Australia
is a ruined and hopeless place; the point they are
agreed on is that it is that sort of place. There is
one other point that almost all of them are united
on—viz.: the malignant “disloyalty to the
Empire” of a large section of Australians. An
axiom with them is that an Australian or other
Home Ruler is necessarily one who yearns
for a Commonwealth navy in order that
it may blow the British fleet to Hades.
At the same time, they aver that it is so obvious
that no Australian navy can possibly be built
which can even argue a point successfully with
the Chilian fleet or any other third-rate sea-arma-
ment, let alone the British one, that the idea of
building any sea defence at all is sheer lunacy.
This sort of foolishness may be pardoned in
McPherson, because he comes from a section of
the British isles which has furnished an exceed-
ingly small proportion of the aggregate intellect
of the country. While the Lowlands of Scotland
are dotted all over with the birthplaces of men
with world-wide reputations, the old McPherson
land is curiously devoid of spots where the world-
shaking baby came to light. But that misfortune
supplies no reason why A ustralia should be lectured
by McPherson. The Australians, at all events,
never invaded England, nor did any Australians
ever slaughter the British soldiery at Prestonpans.
And Australia’s “loyalty” is its own. In that
respect, it is unlike the loyalty of the McPhersons,
who apparently, if they hadn’t been walloped
into subservience and their clan organisations
crushed by main force, would still be threatening
the safety of the Empire with the slogan and the
bagpipes and the claymore.
<&.
Can Australia Afford a Navy?
On Empire Day Admiral Poore handled the Aus-
tralian navy question in an address at the Sydney
Exchange. He spoke—deliberately using the
language of hyperbole—of the necessity of Aus-
tralia either building a considerable fleet quickly,
or else knuckling down and depending entirely
for its national existence on the armament-
burdened Mother Country. Of course, the anti-
defence press set up a psean of joy at so much of
this pronouncement as it was able to twist into an
endorsement of its own disgraceful policy. Said
Sydney Telegaph, exultantly :
There spoke akeen-sig-hted guide, who can see the situ-
ation clearly, and see it whole.
And it went on to demonstrate that Admiral
Poore’s keen-sightedness had led him to discern
that Australia was such a feckless, stone-broke
sort of country that it couldn’t possibly afford an
adequate navy, and that, therefore, the only
thing for it to do was to let itself be looked after
by some country that could. The S. M. Herald
of the same date took a like view. It said :
Congeries of colonial navies, manned and paid for by
the colonies as their contribution to the stability of the
Empire, maybe regarded as ideals altogether worthy of
the great record of our race. Unfortunately nothing in
creation is so delusive as an ideal, for it makes us forget
the cold realities of to-day in the glittering promise of
to-morrow. . . . We are deceived by the spaciousness of
our territories into imagining that we are greater than we
are. We forget we are only a handful of people, and that
possible enemies can send millions against us, and spend
millions of money against our thousands. Effective
defence is the most urgent problem we have to solve, but
we shall be living in a fool’s paradise if we are led to
believe that any navy it is in our power to build will
render us immune to attack.
And finally this characteristic sentence :
There is no need to urge anything against Mr. Fisher’s
fleet so long as we remember its futility.
Both papers had admitted, the previous day that,
from a tactical standpoint. Admiral Charles
Beresford’s cabled opinion that “ The Dominions
could best help Britain not by sending £2,000,000
for battleships, but by making efforts to defend
themselves,” was correct. The desirability of an
Australian navy isn’t even now questioned by
them, seemingly ;only its practicability on thefinan-
cialside. Let us examine whether this delighted
assertion of the Sydney dailies (the papers that
have ever been the first to represent Australia
as a ruined hopeless spot from which capital is
continually fleeing in outsize packing-cases, and
whither no sane possessor of cash ever comes)
that their country isn’t able to afford to defend
itself, has any basis in fact. Taken for all in
all, Australia is probably the most prosperous
country on earth to-day. It owns more money
per head of its population than any nation in the
world save one, and that money is so distributed
that there are almost as few genuine paupers to be
found in the Commonwealth as there are genuine
millionaires. It is the only civilised country of
importance that hasn’t been affected by the
trade slump of the past year. Its manufactures
are booming under its new tariff, so that
in the big cities studded as they are
with huge new buildings, completed or in
course of construction —the affluence of the
land stands visible to the naked eye.
Furthermore it is one of the rich countries of the
world in the sum of its wealth. It is instructive,
in this connection, to consider how Australia—the
allegedly miserable land which, according to one
of its own leading dailies, must ever keep in mind
that the first thing it has to remember about any
fleet it may ever construct is the fleet’s “futility”
—bears financial comparison with foreign nations
which possess- admittedly formidable navies.
Mulhall, in his “Industries and Wealth of
Nations,” provides a world-accepted computation
of the financial standing of the earth’s principal
countries, and though a dozen years have elapsed
since the date of his figures, there is no reason to
imagine that this country has lost ground in
the interim. He puts Australia’s worth at
£1.076,000,000 sterling. Holland is valued at
£880,000,000. In addition to an army which on
a war footing is 175,000 strong, Holland
owns, mans and maintains a fleet of 109
vessels, consisting of eight ironclads, seven
protected cruisers, 15 coast and harbor defence
vessels, three river gunboats, 45 torpedo boats, and
20 special service vessels. The Argentine Re-
public is £460,000,000 poorer than Australia. Yet
it has an army 125,000 strong, and a navy con-
sisting of three ironclads, four armored cruisers
of 6840 tons, in addition to destroyers and tor-
pedo craft; and it possesses a naval strength of
5000 men. Greece, which has about one-fifth the
wealth of Australia, and which has but half this
country’s population, supports three ironclads,
two armored vessels, one cruiser, 10 gunboats,
and sundries amounting to 28 vessels, in addition
to an army whose upkeep costs £750.000 per
annum. Italy, “ the home of the Dreadnought,”
and the possessor of one of the most formidable
navies on the seas, is hardly three times as rich as
Australia. It boasts, besides its mighty navy
and mobilised field army of 400.000 men, a first re-
serve force of 350,000 and 250,000 militia men. Ex-
amples might be multiplied indefinitely. The
above should suffice to show that whatever other
excuse Australia may offer the world for not doing
as other countries of its fighting weight do, and-
looking after itself, the contemptible one that it
can’t afford it, won’t wash. The thing that it can’t
afford to do (quite apart from the crying indecency
of such a course) is to pole for its defence for one
instant longer on a heavily-burdened nation on
the other side of the world—since that way, as all
history shows, lies ruin and disgrace and ultimate
national extinction.
"What Saved New South Wales.
The year 1908 was not quite so good as some of
its predecessors. The burst of prosperity which
had characterised 1907 tottered on its basis just a
trifle, and the estimated value of the production
of all the industries of N.S.W. slid down
£3,000,000 below the figures of 1907. But for the
steady growth of manufactures under the splen-
did influence of the Federal tariff the total would
have slid a great deal worse than it did. The
mining industry slumped badly, the pastoral
industry slumped worse—in fact, the vaunted
primary industries, taken as a whole, slumped to
the extent of £4.000,000 altogether, and if manu-
factures were still the precarious affairs they were
in the old Foreign-trade days, N.S.W. would
probably by this time be hanging on to the verge
of something fairly unpleasant. In this connec-
tion it is interesting to consider the progress of
events since the latest tariff came into force :
Value of Production in N.S.W.
Primary Industries.
1906. 1908. Decrease.
Pastoral .. ..£19,743,000 £18,350,000 £1,393,000
Forests and fishing.. 1,536,000 1,400,000 136,000
Increase.
Poultry, rabbits, etc. 1,693,000 1,750,000 57,000
Agriculture .. .. 7,518,000 7,750,000 232,000
Mining .. .. 7,913,000 8,348,000 435,000
Oow .. .. .. 3,425,000 4,400,000 975,000
£41,828,000 £41,998,000 £170,000
Increase.
Manufactures .. £11,861,000 £14,252,000 £2,391,000
The figures set against manufactures do not
represent the value of goods turned out —that
approaches £50,000,000 nowadays—but merely the
value added to the raw materials used. The
return draws a very sharp line between the
shifting, unreliable, largely unskilled “primary”
industries which are the hope and joy of the
Foreign-trade person’s heart, and the manu-
factures which he hates with such amazing
bitterness. In two years the blessed “primary ”
jobs, all put together, only improved by £170,000,
and with nearly 80,000 more people to be main-
tained out of the national earnings that would
have meant, so far as the income per
head was concerned, very serious retrogression.
The fine progress made by manufactures saved
the situation. Manufacturing now comes second
to sheep-and-bullock raising in N.S.W., and has
beaten all the other “primary” industries out of
sight. There are signs, too, that it will, in a very
few years, leave the sheep and bullock job also
out of sight. It is to a great extent a drought-
proof business, and in a drought-cursed land the
value of having a great and profitable business
which doesn’t fall down dead when the rains
cease is incalculable. Manufactures don’t die of
thirst, or get their eyes picked out by crows, or
perish in forest fires. The lode doesn't run out.
When copper and lead slump horribly, and mines
that were as rich as Crcesus yesterday are mere
holes in the ground and cattle-traps to day,
manufactures proceed to boom amid the 1 general
downfall owing to the extra cheapness of their
raw material. They are not like mining, a mere
using up of irreplaceable raw material; and so
long as they have the local market secured
to them by the tariff, they are not at the
mercy of foreign collapses, gambles, speculations
and rings. Comparing 1908 with 1907, it is
found, as already mentioned, that the “primary”
industries did a slump of £4,000,000. In 1902
they slumped £5,000.000. In 1894 they slumped
£6,000,000. These are exciting gambles, and it is
a joyous circumstance to have at least One steady
job about the place for the population to fall back
upon at a crisis. The factory industry fills that
bill so well that in the black year 1902 it com-
prised nearly one-third of the State’s whole visible
means of support, and represented more value
than agriculture and mining put together. A
State wholly dependent on the primary industry
of tearing raw material out of the ground would
have just about perished in 1902.
: !
The Case for Posterity.
Mr. Arthur Rae, ex-M.L. A., writes:—
In your article on the Australian craze for borrowing
money and leaving posterity to foot the bill (15. 20/6/’O9)
there is one important phase of the subject you do not
touch upon. That phase is one which makes the case
very much worse—for Posterity. I allude to the absolute
destruction and loss of some of the most valuable of our
national assets. Supposing that the expenditure of bor-
rowed money dobs create some reproductive assets which
will be good property for several generations to come.
If these assets are held to justify us in passing on the
liabilities, then it is only common justice to debit our-
selves with the assets the country possessed when we took
it over from the aboriginal inhabitants, and which we
have used.
The most valuable of these assets are the minerals and
metals, which, once used, can never be replaced.
I find from the first “ Commonwealth Year Book” that
from the commencement of the British occupation of
Australia, up to the end of 1906, over £669,000,000 worth
of minerals and metals (including precious stones) had
been exported from the six States. It is safe to say
that the value of these exports up to date exceeds
£700,000,000. There is no means of ascertaining the value
of the minerals and metals consumed in Australia, but it
is certain that it must be very large. Leaving that aside,
however, we must remember that every ounce of gold
and every ton of coal dug out of the earth and used or
exported, once gone can never be replaced. Mining is a
necessary but a destructive industry. The richest gold
claim, or the thickest seam of coal, or the biggest de-
posit of silver-lead ore, or kerosene shale, or guano, or
potash will be worked out some day, and nothing left but.
a hole in the ground and a heap of mullock to mark the
place where it used to be. Even though much gold and
coal may remain in the bowels of the earth, still they will!
be deeper down, and require more expenditure of labor
and money to procure, and consequently the results won’t-
be half so profitable.
Another valuable asset which is fast disappearing, and
which our State Parliaments have never made any serious
attempt to conserve or replace, is our native timber.
Australian hardwoods, among the most valuable timbers
of the world, have been ruthlessly destroyed in the
alleged interests of settlement. A fool Government of
N.S.W. employs State agents in South Africa and China
to work up an export trade in Australian hardwood
sleepers, while our Railway Commissioners report that,
the expenditure for sleepers for our own State railways is
£30,000 per annum more now than a few years back,
owing to the diminished supplies available. Even ,
if replanting were commenced forthwith, which
is unlikely, it would be a century or two before
any considerable supply of mature timber would be
available, and meanwhile posterity must pay enhanced
prices for all it requires. Altogether posterity will be put
to a lot of extra expense for nearly all it wants, and by the
reckless parental squandering of its heritage will have
considerably reduced assets to meet the extra outlay
with.
Then, again, about 126,000,000 acres of land have been
sold, and although that does not constitute much more
than seven per cent, of the total area of the continent, it
comprises nearly all the harbor and river frontages, and
most of the best land within the rainfall area, leaving
the rocks and swamps and deserts, and the rainless and
riverless plains of the interior to make up the vast and
cothparatively valueless balance. Of course, the sold
land has not disappeared in the same sense as the
minerals and timber have gone : but as a State asset to be
handed down as a set-off to our loan liabilities it has
disappeared.
Another fact which the ordinary citizen never realises
is that we are posterity —the posterity of those who
started the borrowing lunacy, and in addition to an
annual interest bill of some £8,500,000, we are compelled
every year to float fresh loans to repay old ones, and as-
the discount, flotation expenses, and underwriters’'
charges have to be incurred just the same for a renewal,
loan as for an original one, it really means paying twice*
over for the one lot of money.
In the next ten years—that is by the end of 1919—the-
six Statesof the Commonwealth will be compelled to repay,
or renew by fresh borrowings, some £84,500,000 of their
present combined public debt. As scarcely any provision
has been made for redemption by way of sinking funds, it-
is-morally certain that this appalling heap of debt will be-
passed on for a further term of years on just such con-
ditions as our creditors choose to impose. Pro-
posals to float original loans for railways or other
ordinary purposes may be deferred df, at the chosen
time, money becomes dear ; but no matter how high
interest may jump as the result of a war scare or financial
panic, loans must be met or renewed as they fall due, or
the credit of the country will be ruined. The N.S.W.
share of the public debt is now well on to £90,000,000,
and the interest, which must be paid before we have
bread to eat, means that every 28 years we repay the
whole £90,000,000 and still continue to owe it. Over 22
years ago, when resident in Maoriland, I pointed out the
dangers of the borrow, boom and burst policy of the
Dominion. Since then the Maoriland public debt lias
nearly doubled, and, as you mention, the loan chicken
curses are coming home to roost. In face of the facts
and the ominous signs of danger ahead, the action of our
alleged statesmen in continuing to gaily pile up fresh
debts is nothing short of criminal lunacy.
Tips.
“ 10-2-4” writes : Sir Thomas Sutherland, chair-
manof the Pi and O. Company, complained instupe-
fied fashion the other day that Australians were
travelling in fewer numbers on his Company’s
ships year by year. And from time to time other
less exalted officials of the Co. rise up and make
the same remark, and express themselves unable
to account for the phenomenon. From London
Daily Mail (14/4/’O9) I garnered the following,
which has a good deal of significance in this con-
nection :
Dow much is obtained in tips by stewards on first-class
liners was mentioned in the course of a case in the King’s
Bench Division on Wednesday.
An ex-steward was called into the witness-box, and
stated that he had served on board vessels of the Penin-
sular and Oriental Company a period of 44 years. The
voyages he made were principally to Australia and back.
According to him, a man who knows how to make him-
self useful to passengers, particularly if he happens to lie
a cabin steward for the first-class saloon, can reckoni
upon making a very substantial amount each voyage.
He himself had made £4O in a single trip, in addition to.
his wages of £3 a month. His record was £94 in tips on.
two voyages.
It supplies one good reason why the man of
moderate means has taken increasingly of recent,
years to voyaging beneath the shade of almost,
any other flag than the Union Jack. The tipping
scale is governed at sea, as custom.
On foreign ships, more especially thft-orerman and
French ones, the regulation tip-schedule is low ;
and above all it is limited in its incidence. On
P. and O. ships—and I speak from the experience
of about a dozen trips between iSvcUiuy and
The Outcast.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A protest against many of the finance proposals of the
budget, which has been signed by 35 of the leading
bankers and merchants of London, has been addressed to
the Prime Minister, Mr. H. H. Asquith. The signatories in-
clude Mr. Charles Hermann Goschen (director of the Bank
of England), Sir Everard Hambro (another director), Lord
Avebury (Robarts, Lubbock, and Co.), Antony Gibbs and
Sons, N. M. Rothschilds and Sons, Frederick Huth and
Co., J. S. Morgan and Co. (Pierpont Morgan); Glyn,
Mills, Currie and Co., and Sir Thomas Sutherland.
Lord Aldenham, a partner in the London banking firm
of Messrs. Antony Gibbs and Sons, declares that the
budget proposals will tend to drive capital abroad. —
Cable.
Have you seen a spectral Form
Percolating through the storm —
Have you heard a Voice complaining at the key-
hole of your door ?
It is Capital—alas !
Nary resting-place he has,
For the hard, unfeeling Asquith shunts him forth
from Britain’s shore !
It was only yesterday
That the Outcast fled away
From this dreadful land Australian, where the
tigers used to dwell;
Now once more the victim flies—
With his sad, grief-stricken eyes
As they heave him from Bull’s portal with a large
and bitter yell !
Very horrible to see
Is the British cruelty—
Dreadful is the cry of Goschen as he weeps upon
the floor;
And the meek Rothschildren mourn,
Filled with grief and all forlorn,
Whilst the Bankers thrust petitions ’neath Lloyd-
Gkorge’s chamber door !
Sad indeed is Morgan’s wail—
Gibbs and Sons are turning tail,
Huth and Co. are draped in ashes—see the cinders
in their hair ;
Driving Capital abroad—
Hear the Socialists applaud !
See the unrelenting Asquiths plunge the land in
deep despair !
Hunted forth from Spain and Greece,
Never finding rest or peace,
Cash, the Outcast, vainly seeketh for some kindly
Open Door;
Uncle Sam but yesteryear
Chased him ’cross the hemisphere,
And he’s kicked and cursed from old Baluchistan
to Ecuador !
Smitten hard with many an axe,
Scarified with rate and tax —
Chased and harried, hunted, haunted from the
cradle to the tomb ;
Chant a dirge for Capital—
Hear the Lubbocks groan and squall—
For the sufferer is failing—yea, is sinking to his
doom !
Soon the dreadful guillotine
At its labors shall be seen—
Busily beheading Asquith— all the land shall flow
with gore ;
But to-day the Outcast moans,
And the stricken Fatman groans
As he boots his burst belltopper through his
threatened warehouse door.
All the merchants of the earth,
All the folk of size and girth—
They are filled with lamentations and are devas-
tated quite ;
These, the friends of Capital,
Lift their loud, dishevelled bawl—
And to-day all coin is fleeing from the earth in
great affright.
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace. Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
v FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
We are Ayentslor the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
Enquire for the CINEPHONE, for Musical Pictures.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 Ceorgre Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Oollins St., Melbourne ; jS^ueet^SU^&nsbane^
The present situation in Federal politics
does not hold much hope of immediate progress.
Unless, indeed, the incoming Ministry, inspired
by judicious applications of D.C.L. Whisky, de-
cide upon a radical policy of land settlement. The
amber light of D.C.L., the scholarly brand, is the
Intellect’s pilot star to the harbor of W isdnui,*
Europe—the traveller needs to tip heavily and
often if he wants comfort. The average traveller
who knows his way about hands his cabin steward
a couple of sovereigns before the vessel starts,
together with a promise of a further three if all
goes well till the port of destination is reached.
That ensures an easy passage so far as valeting,
early-morning-tea-bringing, and the like are con-
cerned. But it only touches the fringe of the
ship-board tipping problem. You must tip
your dining-saloon steward. If, owing to an
influx of passengers at Colombo or Aden,
vour seat at the meal table is changed,
or if a more alluring young woman comes
aboard than the one you started beside, and
you get your seat changed to one near hers, you
have to tip the new steward and the old as well.
The bar-room steward expects, and sees to it that
he gets, a tip. So does his friend and ally the bar-
man. The deck steward, he who has charge of the
absurd machinery whereby the fat-headed while
away stagnant hours on the deep (buckets, bull-
boardsand so forth), looks for a gratuity in recogni-
tion of the noisome d uties he performs. The savage
who fills your bath clamors for backsheesh at the
journey’s end. The punkah-wallah from Bengal
stands salaaming vigorously in your path as you
make for the shore gangway for the last time mur-
muring wild words, none of which are clearly
audible save “ kind massa” and “ gib it poor boy
money.” I knew a man once—-a tyro at the
travelling game—who got so involved as to the
P. and O. officials he was supposed to tip, and the
precise amounts that he was expected to hand
eich, that, on reaching Marseilles, where he pro-
posed catching the transcontinental express, lie
handed a Lascar, whom he had suspected since
the ship left Jsmalia of stealing his (the tyro’s)
watch, a ten-pound note, and, in the same move-
ment, as it were, forced on the almost incredibly
haughty R.N.R. captain the paltry sum of four-
and-six. Dread of a contretemps like the above is
alone sufficient to choke a sensitive man off travel-
ling by theP. and O. Co.’s vessels.
Thus the S. M. Herald, which has toiled day
and night to eject the Fisher Government: —
Mr. Fisher's Administration has been extolled, and his
record as Prime Minister has been held up as a model of
all the political virtues. To which it may be replied that
few will deny the Government its meed of praise. The
Prime Minister and his colleagues have shown themselves
capable, hard-working and straightforward in all that
they have undertaken, and they are entitled to every
credit for the vigorous way in which they have fulfilled
the onerous duties devolving- upon them. It was the
boast of Socialist candidates for the Senate, at Mr.
Fisher’s meeting at the Protestant Hall a week or so ago,
that the party had shown itself quite fit to govern. It
had thrown out as successful leaders and administrators,
as the Opposition, with its experienced members, whose
long lease of power in various States and in the Common-
wealth itself had counted for so much. This may all be
conceded. We believe that Socialism has able exponents
and generals who may be trusted to accept any responsi
bility, and give a good account of themselves therein. ...
But the essential difficulty is that the policy and plat-
form of the Socialist party is full of impossibilities.
The Governor-General’s speech contains enough promise
of progress in thfe Socialist sense to send the Common-
wealth or the States bankrupt in 12 months. Vast com-
mitments are outlined, but no suggestion is offered as to
where the money js to come from. Not a word is said
about the Braddon clause or the Premiers’ Conference at
Hobart, though the need for an understanding with the
States is glanced at. Yet old-age pensions have to be
paid, a new defence programme has to be financed, the
development of the Northern Territory is considered to
be of the first importance, and an agreement for sub-
mission to Parliament at the earliest opportunity is indi-
cated. ' The only gleam of light we get is through the
progressive land-tax.
To put it shortly, the late Ministry consisted of
very good men who had done excellent work
and were wholly to be trusted. The only serious
complaint against them was that they had com-
mitted themselves to (1) old-age pensions, (2) a
defence programme, (3) the taking over of the
Northern Territory ; and the only extra source of
revenue they provided was the Federal progressive
land-tax. So the Herald prefers the new
Dkakin combination, and Deakin has committed
himself at different times to (1) old-age pensions,
(2) a large defence policy, (3) the taking over of
the Northern Territory, (4) the building of two
transcontinental railways, (5) the presentation of
a costly battleship to Britain. And Deakin,,
having denounced the progressive land-tax, has
less revenue in view than Fisher had. What
kind of a fool does the Herald take the public
to be that it serves them out this puerile sort of
argument ?
Prime Minister Fisher got in early with his
Progressive Land Tax Bill; and now, even if he
can’t pass it, the country knows what a Labor
Government will try to pass when it is given the
chance. Fisher’s Bill has no terrors for the small
landholder, or even the tolerably big landowner
in the poor districts. When the N.S.W. State
Government cuts up an estate —Peel River, for
instance—it reckons that a £2OOO farm is big
enough, not only to support a family, but also to
provide £lOO a year to pay for the pur-
chase of it; and the £2OOO frequently includes
some improvements. Yet so careful is the Labor
Government not to oppress the small man
or drive him off the land that it doesn’t propose
to start taxing a man until he has land the unim-
proved value of which is £5OOO. In other words,
a man can have about three times as much as the
State Government says he can live and save
money on before the Labor party will send the
tax-gatherer his way. And the Labor party doesn’t
aim at “confiscation ” of the land ; rather it pro-
poses to raise a stupendous number of small land-
owners to vote against confiscation, while the
Tory party wants to keep the anti-land-confisca-
tion party down so small that its anti-confiscation
vote won’t amount to anything. As a general
rule, it may be said that the man who' owns land
is against the confiscation of land. Now in the
Monaro district of N.S.W. it is possible to ride all
day over the property of a single anti-land-
confiscator. That one man has so much land that
in a day’s ride it is only possible to whoop up two
votes against confiscation—those of the owner and
his wife (he has no children). And the Tory
anti-land-tax party wants to keep things like
that. But the Labor and progressive land-tax
party wants to so break up that gigantic estate
that it will carry ]OOO small landowners, and,
reckoning them and their wives and families, there
will be 4000 or 5000 votes against the confiscation
of land. Therefore Bruce Smith is really the
land confiscation man, and Andrew Fisher is the
anti-confiscation man, and it is only the blatant
insolence of B. Smith which makes him pretend
to the contrary.
“ Lex ” writes
The High Court urged a serious grievance against
Attorney-General Wade, 1 of N.S.W., in the matter of the
Greville appeal. Greville was an old public servant,
and on his retirement he and the Government fought a
fierce battle in the law courts on a point as to whether
his office was abolished, or whether he was retired as
useless. His gratuity or pension rights depended on
whether it was he himself, or his position that was dis-
pensed with. Greville won his case before the High
Court, and Wade’s Department applied for leave to
appeal. The Court granted leave, subject to the Crown
■paying all Costs. Greville died, and his estate passed to
the Curator of Intestate Estates, who applied to the High
Court for leave to appear in Greville’s place before the
P.C. The High Court granted leave with some misgivings
as to whether the Government’s servant, the Curator,
would contest the appeal against the Government. Rather
than insult Wade by getting a guarantee that he would
allow both sides of Greville’s case to be heard, the High
Court let the thing go. The case came before the Privy
Council, and no one appeared for Greville’s estate.
The N.S.W. State Government won its case, but it only
did so by raising an entirely new point never mentioned
in the previous proceedings. It was able to win easily on
that point because there was no one there to appear for
Greville’s estate and to object to the point, and the
reason why no one appeared was curious. The N.S.W.
Government paid to Greville’s estate all the money
in dispute, thereby apparently acknowledging that
Greville’s claim was right. That deprived Greville’s
representative, .who was also the State Government’s em-
ployee, of any reason for going on with thecase. Then the
Government went on with thecase, and got a decision that
Greville’s claim was wrong. The verdict doesn’t affect
Greville’s estate, for in that case the money has been
paid, but in any other cases corresponding to Greville's
that may arise this curiously-obtained decision may
enable the Government to refuse any consideration.
Greville’s claim was apparently right, else why did i he
Wade Government pay ? But other claims like Greville’s
will apparently be wrong because the Privy Council de-
cided so when Greville’s estate didn’t turn up to argue
the point, and the meeting of Greville’s claim seems like
paying Greville’s representative to stay away. The
High Court probably won’t trust Wade again; but the
thing shouldn’t stop there. If Wade’s pliant majority in
Parliament won’t criticise Wade’s action, it should at
least have a list made out of all cases affected by the
decision, and find out how they are likely to stand. If
there are no such cases, Wade might explain how arose
the necessity to appeal.
-♦
From the S. M. Herald lending article
(28/5/’O9): —
This does not touch the Dreadnought question. No
one who has studied the progress of that movement can
be in any doubt as to the hearty endorsement which has
been given to the attitude of the Liberal leaders, and for
Socialists to insist upon a dissolution now is to beg the
most urgent question of the day.
It is wonderful how dead sure these Tories are
that the country wholly approves of their proposal
to misappropriate £2,000,000 of the public money,
and at the same time how anxious they are not to
give the country a chance to express its wild joy
and admiration. No burglar sneaking away with
the loot was ever more desirous to avoid talking
the subject over with a policeman than
the Dreadnought crowd is to avoid
any argument with the country.
Yet the matter is so very easy
and inexpensive. Why should
not Parliament pass the Dread-
nought Bill and the Bill pro-
viding for the necessary special
taxation in order to raise the
money, both measures being
subject to confirmation by the
people at a Referendum to be
held at next general election.
Taken along with the General
Election, a Referendum would
cost a mere trifle, and the delay
wouldn’t be worth mentioning ;
it isn’t likely that the £2,000,000
would be ready earlier than next
April in any case. And by adopting
this course the Dreadnoughters wouldn’t
look quite so like the liars and thieves and em-
bezzlers that some people think them now.
♦
The S. Australian Labor party has lost its second
leader by death ; and neither J. A. McPherson
nor Thomas Price had got much past middle age.
Both literally wore themselves out. Price, a
Welshman by birth and a stonemason by trade,
was one of those men who take everything very seri
ously, and who feel everything very keenly. When
he started his political career—he entered Parlia-
ment in 1892—it was thought that he was all
froth. Afterwards it was clear that he
bubbled simply because of the ardent fire
that burned in the emotional Welshman.
Largely because of his emotionalism he had
not been always taken seriously; and it was
quite as an experiment that in July, 1905,. he was
permitted to form a Ministry. How well he
succeeded may best be judged by the fact, not
only that he retained office for nearly four years,
but that during all that time not one serious attack
was made on the Government. He proved the
intensely practical man that a very practical little
State loves, and he dies sincerely mourned by his
own party and sincerely respected by all parties.
The distressing habit of sinking unexpec-
tedly, and without any apparent reason, seems to
be growing on the little steamers that tumble up
and down the N.S.W. coast. The last craft to
resign the salted ghost is the Narara, a trifle of
71 tons ; and, so far as is known, it had no valid
reason for going out of business and leaving all
hands to pull for the shore in the boat. The
simple narrative of the lost cockleshell is that it
stole out of Port Jackson about 2 a.m. last Satur-
day, bound for the Hawkesbury, and two hours
later, when off Long Reef in a' thick fog, began to
leak so badly that, in spite of hard pumping, the
fires were swamped in a quarter of an hour. Then
the boat was got out, and the Narara went to join
that other marine mystery, the Bega. There is
something uncanny in the little coaster’s tendency
to go down swiftly and without reasonable excuse.
Has the Devil taken to swimming up and down
the coast with a gimlet ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Rescue.”
Criterion “ The Fatal Wedding.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Town Hall Melba (June 5).
Glaciarium Ice Skating-.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Silver King.”
Theatre Royal “ The Hypocrites.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Kino's “The Bank of England.”
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Athenaeum The Scarlet Troubadours.
«.
With the advantages of professional
playing and production, Mr. Lee’s comedy drama,
“Out on the Oastlereagh,” would probably be a
success and a money-maker —always provided the
author gave his wicked man some other calling
than that of the Church —any Christian Church.
Why not make him a land agent or a
lawyer? Stage blackguardism is allowed by an
audience to those two professions, but no
audience, Green or Orange, save one composed of
the players’ admiring friends, will tolerate a
man of God going about seducing, perjuring and
bullying. With the Rev. Allan Rae transformed
to, say, a produce merchant, Mr. Lee’s new play
becomes a very ordinary melodrama, about up to
the level of the Bland Holt or William Anderson
goods in the same line. With the Rev. Allan
Rae in the cast it would not be tolerated in a Holt
or Anderson theatre. The play opens with an
exterior picture of the Maxwells’ home out on the
Oastlereagh, and an extremely young and school-
girlish-voiced barmaid serving drinks at an open-
air bar—for this is one more of the dramas that
commence in a public-house.. A fine miscellany of
shearers and rouseabouts also inhabit the bit of
scenery. Everybody seems to be waiting for the
coach that is to bring home the daughter of the
public-house of Maxwell, and whilst the wait is on
a man who hasn’t forgotten the girl of nine years
ago tells his story of the loved and lost to the very
youthful barmaid. And there are frequent refer-
ences to one “Emmy,” who won’t betray her
betrayer. Marjorie, the daughter of the public*-
house of Maxwell, finally flutters in all in snowy
white, with a white satin waist-belt, white
floral hat, and elbow sleeves. She has just got
off the coach. Coaching out on the Oastlereagh
must be, for the passengers, like sitting in a
boudoir. There are no flies and no dust-storms,
and no one gets crumpled. Miss Maxwell is a
dear girl, and is delighted to find the old place un-
changed after her four years’ absence, In count-
less melodramas the dear girl returns to her pa’s
old place, and says the same old thing. Rev.
Allan Rae desires to marry Marjorie Maxwell,
for she is a catch and she loves him ; while a good,
brave, modest chap, with high boots, a squash
hat, Oastlereagh clothes and stockwhip, loves
AN AGREEMENT ARRIVED AT.
DEAKIN : “ Well, I’ll go with you—but it’s to be
on MY policy, mind!”
THE ANIMAL: “O suttenly!”
Marjorie. Emmy, the “ruined,” still loves
her betrayer, the minister, and the minister
tries to fasten his sin on to the good,
brave chap in the squashed hat. The cheeky
young barmaid and Rosy, a lubra, overhear
and oversee things, and the Rev. man falls like
Dagon before the Ark. The mills of God grind
fairly fast through three acts, and in the fourth
they grind the wicked exceeding small. “Out on
the Castlereagh ” is being interpreted by the
Playgoers’ Dramatic Club at the Sydney Standard
Theatre until June 4.
** * *
Bland Holt is billed at the time of writing
—Tuesday, to wit—to reappear (2/6/’O9) at Sydney
Royal, after an absence of many moons. So—
unless an earthquake occurs, or Labor infamy
suddenly causes capital to flee the country in such
volumes as to completely destroy the takings, or
the presence of the Chapman-Alexander troupe
affects the legitimate business so deleteriously
that it (the “ legitimate”) has to closedown—it is
likely that, by Thursday, which is the day The
Bulletin weekly and blushingly faces its public,
“The Great Rescue” will have been pro-
duced amid scenes of unparalleled, even
blithering, splendor, gladness, triumph, etc. The
writer has gleaned all of his present scant know-
ledge concerning “The Great Rescue” from (l) a
street hoarding which depicts a nude, or there-
abouts, savage crouching under a tree, apd (2) cer-
tain stimulating, but vague, daily newspaper
statements to the effect that “ It is the Humdrum
that Kills,” and further that “Us” (viz., Bland
and colleagues) stand for “ Music, Mirth. Melo-
drama and Merriment.” The truth or falsity of
these representations he proposes to investigate
during the week and duly pronounce upon later.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney), the pantomime
hight “Jack and Jill” surges into its ninth
week, and still the audiences come, and still are
they convulsed with joy when J. M. Campbell
carols “ I’m Eou th’ Noo,” and the gags “ go ” in
a fashion to suggest that the management owns
some special preservative for keeping elderly
quips fresh. Fred Leslie has thrown all his
powers of observation and psychology into the
character of Baron Bounce, and the remit is the
portrayal of an almost painfully realistic and life-
like modern nobleman of the new or raffish
school. Miss Betty Ohls is as convincing a Jill
as the heart of stage-manager could desire.
* * *• *
“Lucky Durham” departs from Sydney
Criterion on Friday, to permit the celebration,
for a limited number of nights, of “The Fatal
Wedding.” The guilty parties to this ceremony
are Maggie Moore and H. R. Roberts. Aiding
and abetting them are a specially-selected Clarke-
Meynell-Gunn company and a Tin Can Band.
** * *
Mrs. Melba was booked to begin her Syd-
ney season at the Town Hall last Tuesday night,
just after this paper had scrambled to press. So
far, only two concerts (next on Saturday night)
are promised to the famishing multitude. All the
seats save a few at ss. have been preempted.
Conductor Slapoffski waves his masterly stick over
a full orchestra.
* * *
Sydney’s Giaciarium reopened its icy hall
last week, and within an hour one couldn’t see
the ice for the humanity on it. All the ice
maidens and matrons of last season and all their
males hurried to resume the glide they had
acquired with so much pain and backsliding,
and the new-comers were in equal numbers. Three
sessions daily are advertised, and ice-skating ex-
hibitions are thrown in.
*****
Juggler Paul Cinquevalli has come back
to Sydney Tivoli from Maoriland in order to
make room in that narrow land for Chung Ling
Soo, who has gone over to show Joe Ward how to
produce something out of nothing. If the Em-
pire’s Most Eminent Borrower and Promiser has
carefully watched both the above-mentioned dis-
tinguished entertainers, and has taken their per-
formances to' heart, be should be able to steer
successfully through the political shallows which
the dredge of State is fast approaching. The
Tivoli has now a fairly bright programme; conse-
quently it is patting itself rather violently on the
back and urging the public to book early. Besides
Cinquevalli, there are several other turns which
deserve their headlines. The best of these are :
Florence and Lillian, the two stylish girl musi-
cians ; Dale and O’Malley, patter comedians; Cissie
Curlette and Jay Ryan (singers), and Grahaine
and Dent.
** * *
Adelaide amusements are settling down
into winter form. Spencer’s Pictures and the
too-persistent Harry Lauder have gone from th«
Town Hall, and West’s films have moved in,
leaving their former home, Olympia, to revert to
its old use as a skating-rink. Rickards has de-
cided to close the Tivoli season for the present;
Cull Pitt has been enlivening its last nights.
Walker and Sturm are juggling at the Empire.
The Royal has given up melodrama and “popu-
lar ” prices for Nellie Stewart and the brilliant
irresponsible “ Kitty Bellairs,” which relies rather
on dramatic situations than on fidelity to human
nature. Business is tremendous. And at a
suburban hall are the Up ley competitions—musi-
cal, elocutionary, and the rest—-which have de-
veloped from a modest and genuine rivalry be-
tween literary societies into a big semi-profes-
sional affair that claims to be second only to
Ballarat.
■Sfc ■?}£ Vfc - -Mr
Nothing new happened at the Melbourne
theatres last week, but one night there came unto
The Bulletin an invitation to attend a produc-
tion of “The Jewess,” by the Yidishe Dramatic
Society, at the Temperance Hall. The Y.D.S.
appears to be an unintentionally humorous con-
spiracy, organised by one Weisberg for the pur-
pose of reminding the new generation of Austra-
lian Jews that they have a bastard language in the
family. Yiddish, according to English diction-
aries, is “a strange compound of very corrupt
Hebrew and ancient or provincial German,” and
in this delectable patois the performance
of “The Jewess” was perpetrated. The
play, of course, has a purpose of its
own, which it takes very seriously. Its sub-title
is “The Horrors of the Inquisition.” In the
course of five acts —of which the present writer
fortunately escaped the first one —a Jewish gold-
smith and bis daughter Rachel are much perse-
cuted by the Christian church of the period—the
scene being laid in Italy in the fifteenth century.
Finally they are burnt alive, on account of their
proud, unyielding Jewishness. A ted tablecloth
with black bars painted thereon is stretched on a
clothes-horse, and the presence of a burning, fiery
furnace in the rear is indicated by a gleam of
candlelight through the tablecloth. Furthermore,
a cracker is exploded, and the sparks-fly upward
as, evidence that the Inquisitors are stoking their
fire. In this blazing disgrace to Christi-
anity the dauntless Rachel and Eliezer, her
pa, find release from persecution. They might
save their lives by professing Christianity.. A
Cardinal of the Church gives them the option,
yet they prefer to be cooked in the faith of their
fathers. The bulk of the Melbourne audience at
the Temperance Hall seemed to know just
enough Yiddish to be able to understand
Rachel when she told the Cardinal she
would rather be a cooked Jewess than a
raw Christian. This was where the burst
of applause came in. Elsewhere the meaning of
the dialogue was clothed in mystery for the large
majority of the Moseses present. They accepted
it as Yiddish and were grateful, but not even
Chung Ling Soo at a Chinese opera could have
been much more ignorant of what was going on.
The idea of a Hebraic audience paying its good
monish for a shockingly shabby and incapable
performance of a drama which it didn’t under-
stand has been tickling The Bulletin’s fancy
ever since the event transpired.
** * *
The reappearance of the Scarlet Trouba-
dours in Melbourne, at the Athenaeum Hall,
explains why that small party of platform enter-
tainers has been received with considerable accla-
mation in the less populous towns of the Common-
wealth. At the Athenaeum Hall the effect of the
show is not dwarfed by the surroundings or dis-
counted by great traditions.' Here is the home
of mild and gentle frivolity. The Troubadours
are clever in a mild and gentle way, and their
entertainment is neatly constructed. It hangs
together, although it is soft. Singly and collect-
ively, the.five or six men and two young ladies
are “good style,” one of the girls—Miss
Gertrude Parker—showing a strikingly natural
talent for acting in descriptive, humorous songs.
The best musical effort of the combined. Trouba-
dours is their chorus to “ The Toreador,” but the
quartette singing is also bright, and the lack


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY EIRE OFFICE confining: its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite
with mothers everywhere.*
of any conspicuously worst item is something to
be very thankful for. The announcement of “a
complete change of programme every Saturday”
suggests that the Troubadours will stay awhile in
Melbourne, if General Desire issues an order to
that effect.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal there is to be an end.
of “ Struck Oil ” on Friday, and a first local
appearance of “ The Hypocrites ” on Saturday..
With half a dozen new people in the company, in
addition to Harcourt Beatty, Mervale, and some
of their previous accomplices, -“The Hypocrites”
is expected to catch curiosity on the wing, and
bring it down with both barrels.
** * *
A revival of “ The Silver King ” is to take
the place of “An Englishman’s Home” at Her
Majesty’s next Saturday (sth), In the good old
story of how Wilfred Denver rose to higher things
on the stepping-stones of his deceased identity,
Henry Kolker and Miss Ola Humphrey will make
their last appearances in Melbourne. Also it is
announced that the rest of the cast will be almost
entirely new to the drama which has had so many
different casts during its long life,
* -# -:if *
At the King’s the course of Australian
national melodrama is about to suffer an inter-
ruption, ■“ The Man from Outback,” after track-
ing the cattle-duffers to their 1-air for five weeks,
will lay down his damper and rest from his labors
on Friday night- Another Australian drama, by
Randolph Bedford, is in rehearsal at the King’s,
but this will not be ready for action ere the end of
the month. In the meantime a thrilling story
from the Cold Country will be staged, and seeing
that its name is '“The Bank of England” there
ought to be a lot of money in it. The novelty
is billed for Saturday next. At this time of
enthusiasm for the imperial greatness of the
Anglo-Saxon race, it is disturbing to learn from
the Andersonian advt, that “ The Bank of Eng-
land” was written by “the well-known English
journalist. Max Goldberg.”
** * *
Next Saturday (sth) the Glaciarium re-
sumes business as an ice-skating rink under its
usual distinguished patronage. An accomplished
lady artist, with gold medals on her bosom, has
been engaged to reveal new beauties in figure
skating to the daughters of Melbourne. Also a
male professor who cuts more ice than other pro-
fessors will appear at the Glaciarium in company
with Miss Baker Edwards, the lady aforesaid.
* * *- *
The Cherniavski Brothers are to give one
last final farewell concert at Melbourne Town
Hall next Saturday afternoon. And, talking of
the Town Hall in its musical capacity, The Bul-
letin should have mentioned weeks ago that Dr.
Price’s admirable organ recitals have been re-
sumed for the winter, once a week, the night of
the week being Wednesday.
HER MAJESTY'S, MELBOURNE
(“An Englishman's Home").
FRED CAM-
BOURNE.
EARDLEY TURNER as
the Englishman in his home.
“ 0.K.” writes :
The trouble with “An Englishman’s Home” on a
foreign stage is not that it is too “ English,” but too
wholly and solely a Cockney satire, to be generally under-
stood. The moral would appeal to Australian audiences
forcibly enough if it were conveyed ,in a more compre-
hensible play. As it is, the satire is appreciated by all
Anglo-Australians who are Cockney born or have lived
much in London (save a’ small percentage of blind,
blatant jingoes), and by well-informed Australians who
have studied many specimens of newchum Browns,
Smiths and Robinsons, not forgetting Joneses.
But, even to an Englishman of no London ex-
perience, the play must seem more of a burlesque
than a warning. A Yorkshireman, for instance,
or a Cornishmari, would probably miss the satire which is
suggested in the very title of the play. Mr. Brown is a
purely Cockney type of the man who mistakes himself for
a typical John Bull, and talks of his home as being an
“ Englishman’s,” and therefore his castle. Old Brown
and his family, and young Smith and Miss Jones (espe-
cially Miss J.)are not very unlike many middle-class resi-
dents of other overgrown cities in England, but their
interests are strictly Cockney. The scene of the play
couldn’t be shifted to Manchester or Birmingham with-
out blunting the author’s points. The programme states
that the scene is laid “in Essex,” and this is likely
to deepen the mystification of an Australian audience in
general. The part of Essex where Brown has his Myrtle
Villa is presumably within the circle of Greater London,
and it ought to be within seven, miles of the G.P.O. The
local volunteers are Londoners. They have no counter-
parts in the crowded manufacturing towns of the North
of England, nor in the comparatively uncrowded counties
of the South. Major Du Maurier wrote his play for a
London audience, and probably never dreamed of it being
successful outside the Big Smoke.
Stf -Hr vk iU
At Melbourne Olympia, the procession of
West’s pictures is as lively as ever. Morgan,
the piratical celebrity, heads the pageant
in a new capacity. Instead of looting the
loot, as all the best pirates do, he assumes the
mien of a suburban vicar, and sails away to
extract a maiden from captivity. Another
picture of passing comfort to a democratic
audience is “The Heroine of the Forge,”
wherein the daughter of a blacksmith saves the
life of an aristocratic young gentleman, and
finally gives him ’er ’onest ’and in marriage.
Mexico’s greaser army at manoeuvres gives a faint
thrill to the military spirit of the crowd ; but
“ Sports in Batavia,” depicting, among other
things, the angelic nigger in the pastime of
skewering a live bird with arrows, is only in-
teresting to connoisseurs in cruelty.
Tait’s picture show (its Saturday night
address will be Melbourne Town Hall for some
time to come) is starring a picture called “The
Origin of Beethoven’s Moonlight Sonata.”
Therein is displayed the choleric old genius play-
ing pictures of moonlight into the sightless eyes of
a cobbler’s sister ; but the film is too crude and
artificial to snare more than frugal applause. The
other pictures, however, are a goodly batch.
** * *
The latest arrivals at the Opera House
continue to be the Sisters Sprightly, who are now
a fortnight old upon the scene. The Sprightlies
differ in some respects from a hundred other song-
and-dance sisters imported by Harry Rickards.
In the first place, there are three of them instead
of two, and in the next place they do other things
than song and dance. They give a golfing turn
and a “ piccaninny ’'’ turn, and between their time
of coming on and going off they supply about as
much variety as nine ordinary sisters of the old,
stereotyped order, who rarely changed anything
except their clothes. Douglas and Tom Woott-
well divide the distinction of being only a little
less recent than the trio of sistern aforesaid. where T
as the Laurels are now very old. They are excel-
lent Laurels, but they have reached the sere and
yellow leaf period of their engagement.
The Rev. Joseph Spence, Methodist
clergyman, who died recently at Mosman (Syd-
ney), narrowly escaped the fate of Dr. Woolley,
Rev. D. J. Draper, G. V. Brooke, and other
well-known characters. He came to Melbourne
in the steamship London on its first trip, but he
was nearly persuaded to wait for the second one
in order that he might have the congenial com-
pany of certain other parsons of his own sect.
These other parsons have been at the bottom of
the great lone sea for 44 years.
A neat little thing from a Kempsey
(N.S.W.) paper
The late Mrs. Reilly was a daughter of Mrs. Maloney,
of Smithtown, and was 31 years of age and a native of
the Nambucca. Much sympathy is felt for the bereaved
husband, who is left with a motherless babe and the
Maloney family.
After the hint contained in the last sentence, one
•would expect the Maloney family to quit Mr.
Reilly’s house at once.
After all the fuss and Fusion that have
taken place in the effort to “restore the two-party
system in Federal politics” very little has been
really done. There are now (1) the Fused party ; (2)
the Labor party ; (3) the Lyne party, which takes
the place of the Deakin-Lyne party, and though
it is small at present it will almost certainly
grow; and already signs appear of (4) a new
corner party—a Foreign-trade Reid and Johnson
party, which will hoist the banner of old Cobden
and say that the importing faith has been betrayed.
“ Clericus ” (of Sydney) writes :
Judge Hevdon, of the N.S.W. Industrial Court, got off
his chest, in refusing the application of the United
Clerks’ Union for a Wages Board, some remarks that
didn’t seem justified by circumstances. The Clerks’
Union occupies the anomalous position of being a Union
registered under the N.S.W. Industrial Disputes Act,
whilst according to the limitations of that Act it is not
in a position to obtain a Wages Board for its members.
But Premier Wade, in a letter apparently intended
to stop the Union’s agitation for the removal of
this anomaly, practically stated that the Union could
get a Board. So the Union naturally went to the
Court, produced Wade’s letter, and asked for the
Board which Wade apparently said it could get.
Its case ended right there, and it waited for the refusal
of its application ; but Judge Heydon wasn’t satisfied,
and he bullied the secretary because he was not prepared
to argue the matter of having, say, clerks in woollen fac-
tories included with the weavers, and small poor mercies
of that sort. The Union did not ask for this haphazard
device by which about one-tenth of the clerks might
come in after a scattered fashion under 20 or 30 different
Wages Boards—come in as weavers, or bricklayers, or
some such folly—while the other nine-tenths didn’t come
in at all, and its secretary was naturally not pre-
pared to argue in its favor, however much the Court
wanted him to. Thereupon the Court made bitter re-
marks about the way in which the application was
made, and, between one thing and another, the light of
the Union was blown out. Which will probably be very
bad for the party led by the shutffesome and dodgy Wade
when the election comes round, for Clerkdom is a power
in the land, and if it revolts against the Deform party there
will be very little Deform left. As a side issue, the pro-,
ceedings seem to imply a great contempt for Wade’s legal
lore and a very low- opinion of his knowledge of the mean-
ing of his own statute. Wade’s implied assurance that
the clerks can get a Wages Board under his Act, and the
Court’s emphatic decision that they can’t, don’t hang
tog-ether much.
♦
Willie Watt, the Vic. State Treasurer, has
discovered an ingenious excuse for attaching his
portrait to the wall of his office. He proposes to
get photos, of all the Vic. State Treasurers that
ever were —25 of them—and to hang them in due
order, with himself at the end of the array.
Strange to say—and this speaks volumes for
Watt s industrious research—all the photos, have
been collected save that of the first Treasurer, A.
Mackenzie, who died in 1852, and was probably
guiltless of a photo, of himself, even on glass.
However, if anyone can supply a miniature
painting of Mackenzie aforesaid, Watt will
get it reproduced by the camera, and
then his joy will be complete. Needless to
mention that each pictorial record will have a note
of identification beneath it. The absurdity of
not labelling the Departed Great is illustrated in
the library of the Commonwealth’s Parliament
House. Large oil paintings of deceased politicians
hang around the walls and tell no tale. The pre-
sent writer, walking through the library with one
of the Victorian State members, wanted to know
who these ghosts of the past really were, but could
get no information. The portrait pictures were
presented to Parliament by the originals in
most cases, no doubt, and the proud donors
must have felt at the time that their
fame was immortal. And already they are
forgotten. There isn’t even a catalogue on the
premises to which one can refer. The period of
their celebrity can only be roughly surmised from
their manner of top hair-dressing, or the length
of their Weeping whiskers. Now Willy Watt’s
regiment of ancestral Treasurer portraits will
have cards of introduction let into their frames.
None of them will have to suffer the indignity of
the common, ignorant remark: “I wonder who
Old Whiskers was when he was alive!” Irre-
verent menials may refer to them as blokes, but
each bloke will have a local habitation and a
name. Also the dates of when he came and when
he went. Even Watt must some day hand down
the date of his departure to an unperturbed
posterity.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Billy T. : I attended a revival meeting in a Melb,
pub. the other afternoon. A branch contingent of the
Chapman-Alexander howling Joes had obtained permis-
sion to address the frequenters of the beer depfit,
and the wild cry of the galvanic revivalist and the shrill
hymn of the ecstatic sister were loud in the bar for
close upon an hour, the while the beer pump was
hushed and the smile of the barmaid was temporarily
flattened out. I have seen many bad burlesques in my
day and generation, but never one so potent to bring
grief to the judicious and make the ordinary right-
thinking man say “damn” with real feeling. The
evangelist pulled the publican’s leg and the barmaid’s
nether limb; and beer soakers and publican and press
all yanked the leg of the evangelist; and there was
smiling and smirking, and unmeasured snuffle. When
the last yelp for grace had died away, most of the wor-
shippers lined up to the bar with feverish demands for
booze. Evidently revivalising is dry work. The first
man served bit his beer greedily, like a starved dog-; and
when it was down he sighed and said in a tone of pro-
found thought: “It must be a ’orrible thing to be
converted ! ”
“S.S.”: Williamson inserted General Roberts’opinion
that Britain has only “a sham army’’into his advts. of
“An Englishman’s Home,” regardless of the fact that the
drama, as revised for Australian consumption, points
quite a contrary moral. The handful of kilted Scots who
represent the regular forces simply paralyse the foe the
moment they reach the disturbed centre. The g-ifted
management, in trying to terrify the local British public
into serious preparation for war, and at the same time to
gratify the Anglo-Saxon vanity, has completely demoral-
ised the “ epoch-marking ” drama.
Miss Marie Dressier, the American actress-manager
who failed in a London season and fled, leaving her com-
pany in mourning, cursed England horribly when she got
back to her own side. Here is some of what she told the
Boston American : “The conditions which caused me to
close could have occurred in no other city or country. .. .
Any people that are so narrow, so prejudiced, jealous and
vain must cease to be a nation. . . . Heaven knows they
haven’t got in all England three funny people outside of
Parliament —and that is a continuous laugh.. .. It’s tlje old
but ever-true tale of the English treatment of Americans
in business there. They hate us ! ” After which the lady
forgot what she had been saying (that is, if any trust
whatsoever can be placed in a Yankee interviewer), and
told how “ for years English managers made me enticing
offers,” and when she played in London another time,
“ you all must have heard of my success. I was given an
ovation which I shall never forget. I was getting the
largest salary ever paid to an artist in Europe.” Appa-
rently the American who can take a licking philosophi-
cally doesn’t exist.
The opinion of “R.M.”: If Wilson Barrett failed to
write a great play in “ Lucky Durham ” he at any rate
provided an excellent psychological study of a type of
the newly-rich. Millionaire Durham, the bore who brags
fulsomely that he never did any man harm while making
his pile or afterwards, and who at the same time slings off
at his unfortunate old mother about her little mistake of
40 years before, is plenteously laden with the character-
istic snobbishness of Fat. Very significant is his slavish
veneration of the ancestors of the man who caused the
trouble for which be assails his female progenitor. Most
of us have met Durham in real life. He blithers of how
he started life on half a crown and a stainless character ;
and ultimately buys a knighthood with £lO,OOO worth of
Dreadnought.
“Cockaigne”: Marie Lohr, the Australienne, is again
on top in London with her Lady Teazle at Beerbohm-
Tree’s theatre. The only fault is that she is too young-. So
is Tree’s Sir Peter. A man of 53 was 10 years older in the
18th century than he is in the 20th. The dry old Sir
Peter of Rogers, Lambert, Cathcart and Bob Brough was
carried down in tradition from the original, Tom King,
to the Farrens.
Seymour Hicks, actor, playwright and producer, sup-
plies a reason for the benefit of London Daily Mail
(23/4/’O9) why Jack Johnson doesn’t care how long it is
before he allows himself the luxury of another champion-
ship fight. Hicks is shortly putting on “Sporting Life”
at the Aldwych Theatre, London. This is a ten-year-old
play that holds the same proud place in fistic drama that
“Eist Lynne” does in the sentimental article. Jack
Johnson has been engaged to star in it at £3OO a week.
All Johnson will have to do will be to appear in a scene
representing the London National Sporting Club’s boxing
hall, and there spar a few harmless rounds with his train-
ing partner. Five months of this sort of thing will bring
Johnson in as much money as Tommy Burns took when,
amid pain and humiliation, he lost his well-loved belt ;
and 'about the only danger the mighty Ethiopian need
risk will be a cold in the head.
West’s Pictures are to have a house of their own in
Melbourne, at the corner of City-road and Start-street,
a site that is opposite to Olympia on the one hand and
the Glaciarium on the other. The original idea was to
erect a wood and iron structure, but the law of the South
Melbourne City Council required it to be built of brick,
and the end of a long controversy was a decision to give the
local bricklayers a first-class job. At the present time
the West’s Proprietary is paying a huge rental for
Olympia, a not very lovely edifice of iron and wood which
stands just outside the limits of the South Melbourne
Council’s “ brick area.” The show will soon begin to save
money by being its own landlord. Also, it will have a
building exactly suited to its picture requirements, i.e.,
big enough to seat 3500 people comfortably without
bringing the stage or “screen” too close to the front
chairs. The inevitable Pitt, M.L.C., has completed the
nhins, and, on the word of Manager J. A. Miller, the new'
West’s Theatre, or whatever it may be called, will be
read}' to receive pictures by Sept. I—a month before
West’s lease of Olympia expires. The Olympia building,
by the way, must have been a valuable spec, for Wirth
Bros. They built it for circus purposes, but after one
season of circus, three years ago, they leased it to the
West people for nine months, and have been renewing
the lease ever since.
An Australian girl writes of Harry Lauder’s renewed
“ boom ” in Noo Yark, where that remarkable singer of
Scawtch ditties made in England has been drawing an
enormous salary. Seats at the theatre for Lauderls fare-
well appearances were unobtainable, but the girl in ques-
tion was taken to the Caf6 Boulevard to see Lauder, with
no idea of hearing him. He was the guest of honor at a
Bohemian festival, and in the course of the crazy pro-
ceedings the mighty “creator” of “Stop your ticklin’,
Jock,” was crowned with a circlet of gold, or silver, or
something, and acclaimed “ King- of Vaudeville.” The
male guests were presented each with a small flask of
whisky, bearing a photo, of the monarch, whilst the
ladies got a menu card with his portrait and autograph
on it. And Lauder sang a song. He is notoriously in-
disposed to give anything away, but in the fulness of his
joy he contributed one of his humorous ballads. So the
Australian girl numbered herself among the favored
mortals in New York, and was happy indeed.
THE FIRST TEST.
LITTLE BOY: “ Where’s my kangaroo?”
H. W. Varna, whom J.O. W. imported to these shores
to produce “ The Darling of the Gods,” and who after-
wards acted .with and produced for the Day-Flemming
co., has leased the Court Theatre, Sloane Square, Lon-
don. This is one of the most fashionable theatres in Lon-
don. It is the classic little playhouse wherein, in the
past, Shaw’s and other plays for the highly-cultured have
been shoved before a discriminating audience. But
Varna is not going to show with any Repertory Theatre
work there. He intents, on the contrary, to present
Hugh Mclntosh’s fiickergraph pictures of the Burns-
Johnson massacre to the British aristocrats who live near
and frequently visit the Court; and he expects to make a
sack of money out of the venture.
A musical version of that superlatively humorous
American comedy “The Dictator,” is to be staged in
London, the author, Richard Harding Davis, having
supervised rehearsals of the adaptation. Willie Collier
and co. in “ The Dictator ” were just the brightest thing
in farcical comedy that Melbourne and Sydney' have
jointly and severally refused to take kindly to. The
comedy was equally droll in action, situations, and
suggestion, but seemingly the interest was too directly
’Murkan to be appreciated by a country which has little
or no knowledge of political affairs in the turbulent South
American republics. Moreover, Collier and co. had been
accustomed to playing in small houses, where every in-
flection of a low-pitched voice was duly effective. At
Her Majesty’s (Melb.), where the luckless Australian tour
started, Collier nearly busted his vocal organ in the
attempt to speak up. This was after the booking office
and “gate” receipts had told their awful tale. “The
Dictator ” provided an astonishing object-b sson in the
risks of theatrical speculation. It opened to a great
Saturday night house, and the press criticisms were a
chorus of praise, but the Monday night audience was a
record in slumps. The drop from the first-night takings
to the second night’s takings—the stream of gold dimin-
ished to a trickle—is about the saddest of the J. C.
Williamson firm’s recollections.
In Paris lately a dramatic author recovered damages
from a manager who had been fooling with the manu-
script of his drama. The author offered the work to the
manager two years ago, and the autocrat informed the
press that the play would duly appear with great success.
But he neither produced it nor returned the MS. to its
lawful owner. So the lawful owner sued him for with-
holding the play from production, and got a verdict for
£l6O on that account, plus 16s. a day, for as long as he
should continue to stick to the other man’s property.
Presumably, he lost no time in discontinuing to stick to it.
Stated that the problem of photographing in colors for
the biograph is now absolutely solved. The results
are being tentatively shown at London Palace. As a
final proof that the eoloringis natural, and not done by
art —which would take several days, at least, in the case
of a long film —next Derby is to be reproduced at the
Palace'the same evening-, riders’ colors and everything
else complete.
“ N.” : Cassell’s Magazine deals with theatre finances.
Drury Lane, at the height of the pantomime season, takes
about £BOO a night. The pay-list of the Queen’s Theatre,
Loudon, in 1869, shows that 16 men and 12 women were
engaged. The total weekly outlay, including actors,
actresses, band and servants, was only £9l 7s. 6d.
Several of the performers afterwards became famous. Thus
Toole got £lO 16s. Bd. a week, Ellen Terry £5, Charles
Wyndham £3, Henry Irving £2 13s. 4d., and Lionel
Brough £2 10s. The band cost only £l5. Mdlle Granier
w-as lately paid £360 for six nights at the London Royalty
Theatre, or about four times as much as the whole dis-
tinguished and numerous company of the Queen’s in 1869.
Mdlle. Grainier’s expensive company brought up the
weekly outlay to nearly £l4OO. The Lyceum property
was sold in 1906 for £119,500. The legitimate drama has
never brought such profits as music halls do now. The
Palace Theatre last year had a gain of £43,000 on £90,000
capital. The Empire paid 70 per cent, for some years,
and has long averaged 45 per cent. During the strike of
1907, Manager Payne published his weekly salary-list:
Elvin and Co., £175 ; Arthur Roberts, £160; Little Tich,
£150; Marie Lloyd, £115; Martinetti and Co., £113;
Alec Hurley, £B5.
Theatrical-manager Bill Anderson is the most inveterate
cigar smoker on earth. Says one of his comedians : “A
big cigar never seems complete to me now without Bill
Anderson attached to the thin end.”
“The Earth,” a new play which was Staged at London
Kingsway Theatre last month, touches with no light hand
on a scandal of the hour. Sir Felix Janion is the million-
aire proprietor of a Tory newspaper. The Right Hon.
Denzil Trevena, M.P., is a member of a Radical Cabinet.
Trevena announces his intention of bringing in a Wages
Bill. Janion is revolted at the revolutionary Socialism of
Trevena and urges him to desist. The latter wraps him-
self in a toga of righteousness, and stands firm. And
then Janion finds that Trevena is carrying on
with Lady Killone, a married woman. Of course,
there is Hades to pay and a hot time all
round. The Right Hon. Lloyd George, M.P., also a
Radical Cabinet Minister, and also a bringer-in of mea-
sures revolting- to the Conservative mind, has just been
accused by a Tory newspaper of immorality with the
wedded wife of another. In his case, there was no ves-
tige of truth in the accusation, and his slanderer has said
so and has disbursed £lOOO to prove that he believes
what he says. But the analogy is close enough to set
the man in the London street talking. Nor will he desist.
It is as though an Australian playwright presented a fat,
bald man with an eyeglass, a dog, a passion for boiled
sweets, and no particular political views, and then denied
that the character was G. Reid. His story would not be
readily credited, the circumstantial evidence against it
being too strong.
The latest London music-hall lunacy takes the form of
a ditty, each stanza ending with an irritating catch line.
Wilkie Bard, the comedian who introduced it, began with
the well-known test of clear enunciation, “She sells sea
shells ”; but at latest has perpetrated “ The Leith police
dismisseth us.” Hearing the singer succeed, the audi-
ence goes away and attempts to repeat this verbal in-
sanity. The result appears to be that an Englishman’s
home, as depicted in the crazes of Act I. of that remark-
able drama, is more so than ever. Let any solid and
respected citizen try his tongue on “The Leith police
dismisseth us ” six times consecutively, and he will realise
how infinitely superior it is to Socialism as a home-
wrecker.
MURRAY, CONOCLAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If drink worked as much mischief among our young
people as the cigarette does, we should not hesitate to
put an end to it. Then why not abolish the cigarette?
I am convinced that nothing short of prohibition will be
effective, and we are determined to put down the manu-
facture and sale of cigarettes in Victoria. —Premier Mur-
ray of Victoria.
The man who on the corner leans
And smokes his fag on summer days,
To him this prohibition means
Privation, till at length he weans
His fancy from the olden ways.
He’ll curse a bit, but will contrive
With cheap cigars to keep alive.
The small boy who has bred a lust
With “ ciggers ” at “ a brown a clutch,”
Contrived of poor tobacco dust,
And straw, and opium—in disgust
Will school himself to suffer much.
For all too fragile is his type
To bear the burden of a pipe.
But there is one the fell device
Of which the Premier is in quest
Will bring to nothing, wreck his nice
Artistic poses, sacrifice
The fine effects that he loves best.
One whom the quaint reform will slay—
I mean the villain in the play.
His subtlest touch, bis coolest threat
With crude cigars he cannot plan.
What suave bravado may he get
Who must not light a cigarette
When he has slain the good old man?
So Murray plays an evil part—
And aims a fatal blow at Art !
VICTORIA.
S.S.


Australia’s Wool
FOR.
Australians’ Rugs.
The D.J. Guinea Rug, as illustrated, is made in
Australia from pure Australian Wool. It measures
60in. x 72in., and weighs s£lb. It is closely woven
and very soft and warm. When travelling it greatly
adds toone’s comfort, and during the winter it makes
an excellent bed covering. The patterns, which in-
clude Tartan Plaids, Stripes and Checks, are rever-
sible, so that the rug is never “ wrong side out. : ’
PRICE - -21 s.
We send this rug carriage paid to any part of the
Commonwealth. Should it on receipt not prove
entirely satisfactory, return it, and your purchase
money will be refunded.
DAVID JONES Ltd.
SYDNEY.
HQLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
pr- Noted for Rings and Watches of Highest Grade at Lowest Prices.
Solid 18ct. Cold Engagement or
Dress Ring, set with 3 choice
Diamonds, £lO/10/- Smaller Dia-
monds, £7/10/- With 1 Diamond
and 2 Rubies or Sapphires, £5/5/-
Attractive 18ct. Cold Engage-
ment or Dress Ring, 2 fine Dia-
monds, £lO/10/- Larger, £l5.
Handsome Solid 18ct. Cold Hoop
Ring, set with 5 lovely Diamonds
of fine lustre, £lO/10/-
Smaller stones, £5/5/-, £7/10/-
Solid 18ct. Cold, strongly set
with Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3/10/-
Larger, £5/5/- and £7/10/-
We have been in business at above address 52 years.
Our Special Thin. Cun-
Metal, Lever Watch, 20/-
Fully Jewelled.
Excellent Timekeeper.
20
SOCIETY
In at least three recent murders the per-
son either convicted or strongly suspected has
been the individual next door. And apparently
there was no visible reason why he should commit
the crime save that he lived next door. It would
almost seem that to a certain class of mind hatred
of the person in the adjacent house—sudden
hatred, or else the long, slow, persistent article —
becomes a sort of madness. Perhaps it is the call
of the wild breaking out —a sort of lopsided
reversion to the old love for the great open spaces
and the free air. The person next door is the visible
embodiment of the overcrowding of humanity,
the want of elbow-room, and the need of a
breathing-hole in the thickened atmosphere.
And without really knowing why he does it—
well, there is a funeral next door.
The most recent case of the kind happened
at Leichhardt, a cheap stuffy suburb of Sydney.
The elderly woman who lived next door to the man
kept a small shop ; she was ill in bed, and two
other women were in charge. The quiet, harm-
less, ordinary, middle-aged man, who lived next
door to the elderly woman, was a carpenter in un-
certain employment. He and his neighbor were
apparently the best of friends ; nevertheless he
slid quietly up her stairway one day, with a knife
in his hand, and butchered her most comprehen-
sively. Then he came down stairs, bailed up the
two alarmed women, and demanded some gratis
chocolates with the same overbearing ferocity
which characterised Henry Morgan when he de-
manded the surrender of a city. He consumed
three chocolates, and then drifted away and cut
his own throat. And there is, so far, nothing to
account for this sudden buccaneering on the part
of a quiet, middle-aged carpenter, save the frenzy
which comes of living next door.
* * * *
“Boswell”: Refreshing to note that a
jury in Sydney has at last declined to convict
solely on the evidence of finger-prints. This plan
of securing convictions is lopsided and dangerous.
No chance is offered the accused of putting for-
ward expert evidence in rebuttal; the experts
are all for the prosecution, and, in addition, are
members of the prosecuting body (the police),
which is generally anxious to make a “bird” of
the person in the dock. All this talk about 20,000
sets of finger-prints and never a mistake seems to
contain a huge proportion of sqlfiglorification.
No two persons may have an epidermis with
exectly the same lines, but among 20,000 there
must of necessity be many where the differ-
ence is infinitesimal, and any blur or in-
distinctness or failure of the ink or the
dust and grime to catch one ridge properly may
convict a wholly innocent person if the print is
the one bit of evidence against the man. To sup-
port other bits of evidence, the finger-print busi-
ness may be all right; but we’ve been inclined to
run away with ourselves and make a fetich of the
new contraption lately. It is all very good to say
that among 20,000 finger-prints there are no two
alike, but among 20,000 policemen there are
probably 19,770 who can’t be relied upon to know
when two finger-prints are not alike.
“ Petifi ” : I wasn’t clear at first what the
vigorous Chapman-Alexander troupe was “ mis-
sionising” about, but I think I’ve got the hang of
it now. It is to teach this benighted country the
exalted art of being interviewed. I’m not certain
whether the visiting showmen invented the sys-
tem themselves, or whether it is a common or
garden sort of thing in their great country, but
I’m inclined to think they invented it. They look
like folk who could invent things. The system
seems to consist fundamentally of getting the
other fellow to blow your top notes for you, while
you graft for him on similar lines. You lead up
pianissimo to the high C ; then you drop out, and
your mate takes the upper register with vim.
By this means you preserve your modesty and get
there all the same. For example :
When a representative of the Telegraph met Dr.
Chapman yesterday that gentleman at once suggested,
“You would like to meet Mr. Alexander too. He’s down
below. Let’s go,” and Mr. Alexander was discovered
“ down below ” accordingly.
“Am I satisfied with the campaign in Melbourne?”
Dr. Chapman said. “ Well, I just think the last two
weeks in Melbourne were, in many respects, the greatest
I have ever seen in my life, in the enthusiasm of the
people”
“And your own enjoyment in preaching,” Mr. Alexander
interpolated.
“Yes,” contended the other.
“People know I won’t ask them to do anything un-
reasonable, and Mr. Alexander is known here, too.”
And Mr. Alexander added that “Dr. Chapman is a
missioner to ministers also, etc.”
“Sometimes,” said Dr. Chapman, “we had to turn
thousands away.”
“How early was it they came one morning?” Mr.
Alexander asked of Mr. Kee's, a journalist who is accom-
panying them, and that gentleman said he had seen the
people assembling as early as 10 o’clock for the afternoon
meeting.
Dr. Chapman added that. .
And Mr. Alexander added that. ...
“ How many people attended the overflow, Mr. Rees?”
Mr. Alexander asked.
“ Well, there were many thousands.” And so on.
See the art of it ?
* * * *
“Billy T. ” : I was motored to five
Empire demonstrations in Melbourne on Empire
Day, and am now satisfied that the Empire cor-
roboree is devised solely for the glorification and
gratification of the abounding mayor. Every-
where I went there was a mayor, and every mayor
was magnificent. The mayor was the cynosure
of all eyes, the head centre, the axis of the
whole whirligig. If it was a vast assemblage
of white-clad maidens gathered together to
sing “ Gorsave,” among the thronging heifers of
the herd stood proudly eminent the lordly mayor,
expanding his terrific chest with its gilded fret-
work, and drawing to himself all the shimmer,
absorbing all the sentiment. At the tree-planting
he was chief joss and receiver-general. All day
long the British Empire was merely an abstract
idea; the mayor was concrete fact, and the
flowers of rhetoric were showered about his
portliness, the raptures of song circled around his
eminent head, the breath of his nostrils was incense.
Even at night among the fireworks the most
luminous and resplendent object was the mayor, in
the gown, chains, tablets, buckles, buttons, feather
trimmings, wampum, chest protector and diadem
of his high job or office.
HE DIDN’T SEE HER.
“Are you quite sure your mistress is not in?”
“I’m dead sure. If I wasn’t I’d lose my job.”
THE TECHNICAL TERM.
BEGINNER: "Say, boy, what do they call it when you miss the ball?"
CADDY: “ Daren't tell you, sir! Only yesterday I was cautioned for just saying 'Damn!"
Lynch, who is kept by a pub out Hay way
(N.S.W.), hasn’t had much time lately to attend
to the beer-bar, having been too busy looking
after the other sort. One night, back in his
peaceful days, he went to bed before midnight.
That evening one of his boarders had a party, and
one of the guests stayed on in the boarder s room
after Bang went to bed. Bung didn’t know any-
thing about this, not being in the habit of going
round with a candle and looking under every
boarder’s bed at 11 p.m. But the police were more
energetic, and burst in on the party at 12.30 a.m.,
when they found the lodger and his friend playing
“ Yankee grab.” Just about this time the Govern-
ment was conducting a huge gamble with about
£lOO,OOO worth of land in the Riverina district;
but it found time to pursue Lynch through the
police court, because a man was found on his pre-
mises after hours for an unlawful purpose —to wit,
gaming with dice. Lynch was fined Is. ; but
rather than pay it he went up to the Full
Court in angry protest. The Full Court decided
that if Lynch was guilty he would be equally
liable if a burglar had been found on his premises
after hours, for burglary is admittedly an unlawful
purpose. Then the appeal-mad Government of
the Ma State asked the High Court for leave to
appeal, and got it provided it paid all Costs
whichever way the case went. The case has now
gone Lynch’s way, so he gets his shilling back; and
Heaven only knows how much the lawyers get.
Judging by the vigor with which Wade pursued
the matter, he thinks that Bung ought to be re-
sponsible for what goes on in every boarder's room
—even if the boarder is a lady—at all hours of the
night; and, in that case, why didn’t Wade have
the responsibility made clear when the Bill was
going through? Or, if he only thought of it after-
wards, why didn’t he introduce an amending Bill,
instead of worrying one unfortunate Wayback
publican, and scattering large sums of money to
no purpose among his fellow law sharks?
Adelaide has never taken kindly to the
“ personal ” advertisement, and an attempt to in-
troduce it has been squelched in the most practi-
cal manner. The specimen was fairly innocent,
too. Mrs. N. merely announced that, “If Mrs.
H. and her family do not leave off making state-
ments and tantalising me about religion I will
take legal proceedings against them.” Broken
Hill would think that a feeble blast. But Mrs. H.
GIVE US HOFFIS.
There are no violent antagonisms separating any of the
men who would be expected to take office, or, rather,
will certainly expect to have it offered, under pain of
making themselves extremely unpleasant. —Sydney paper.
set out in a law court that “it was alleged that she
had made improper statements concerning Mrs. N.
and her religion, and had rendered herself liable to
criminal proceedings, and was an unneighborly
person and unfit for the society of her neighbors.’
And she said she had suffered “damage in her
reputation, and great pain of body and mind,”
and she wanted 19 guineas out of Mr. N. to com-
pensate her. She only got £1 (and Costs), but the
decision must be a severe blow to the frequent
lady who loves to announce that she will do some-
thing if the other Cat does not leave off doing
something else.
THE ASHFIELD INFERNO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. Cartwright has written to the Ashtield
(N.S.W.) Council, protesting against children being
allowed to use the swings in the local park on the Sab-
bath.—News item.
Two-up we are daily checking ;
We are almost on the brink
Of suppressing Tatt.’s and wrecking
The hopes of the Demon Drink ;
But the gladsome hymns we’re singing
They are harsh and out of tune,
As we learn of. children swinging
On the Sunday afternoon !
Black Beelzebub is lurking
In the bush at Ashfield Park ;
Overtime he’s gladly working,
As the youngsters frisk and lark ;
Little clinkered souls he's bringing
Homeward weekly ’neat.h the moon,
From the sinful infants swinging
On a Sunday afternoon.
Burglars find that things are booming;
Prospers the garroter coarse ;
Bathers in the surf are blooming ;
Fiendlike, scoundrels back a horse ;
Dancing still survives, and singing ;
Men and maidens hug and spoon ;
All through vicious kiddies swinging
On a Sunday afternoon.
N.S.W.
JASON.
THE EMPIRE AND THE GUTTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By a recent ordinance Kaffirs in Johannesburg who walk
on the footpath are liable to imprisonment.
We respect our fellow man,
Be he white, or black, or tan,
And we love him more than words can ever utter ;
But, whene’er he walks the street,
Let him keep his heathen feet
To the proper place for heathen—in the gutter.
We shall meet him up above
In the Land of Light and Love,
And the same angelic tongue we hope to stutter ;
But in case, while here below,
On the footpath he should go,
We’ll remove him with a boot—into the gutter !
Now, we do not wish to brag,
But—let out the British flag—
In the winds above the kopje let her flutter !
Let her wave above the free
In the breezes joyouslee
While the Kaffir greets her gaily—from the gutter !
Let them greet it as a star
There in British lands afar,
When the masses battle fierce for bread and butter ;
Let them greet it—as they cry,
“Must we,toil and moil and die,
With no vista in our lives but Britain’s gutter? ”
QCEKNSLAND.
THE BRITON.


Breathing Disease.
Infectious diseases are breathed into
the system from those affected with disease
or from bad smells; yet how many women
oreathe daily the offensive steam from
common soaps made from rancid fats, and
keep their hands for hours in such solu-
tions, and the clothing from such soap
suds is worn next the tender skin. No
wonder disease and eczema are prevalent!
Users of Sunlight Soap know the differ-
ence between that and the pure, healthful
smell from the vegetable oils and pure
edible fats in Sunlight Soap.
There was a worthy curate, who
A cough could not endure.
He cured, we’re told, both young and old,
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
The short, the tall, the young, the bald,
The poor who payed no pew-rate,
He cured them all, and so was called
The Woods’ Great Peppermint Curate.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
This Style of
Boot for Winter
is the one we have sold so many of and that has
earned liberal praise from its wearers.
Our special treatment renders the seams and
material practically watertight, without sac-
rificing' in the slightest the qualities of shape-
liness, durability and comfort.
It is in Black or Tan Box Calf, with welted
soles and soft, pliable uppers. Medium toe, and
stylishly built on modern lasts, it makes an ideal
dress boot for a moderate price. We recommend
it with every assurance of the boot giving full
satisfaction in appearance and service.
Price, 16s. 6d.; Is. extra posted.
State Size when ordering.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
<O4
The crusade conducted in Melbourne pubs
by Evangelist Asher produced at least two cheer-
ful incidents. Among the holy roarer’s audience
in a city pub was a tremulous person with impe-
cuniosity written all over his weary brown clothes.
He was much affected during the hymns, and
groaned a dolorous “Ah-h-h-men” when Asher
made a point. The evangelist was pleased, and
pinned the habitu6 against a wall at the conclusion
of the service, and poured an extra special supply
of grace over him. The sinner took it with
deep emotion ; but when Asher turned from him
and left the room, his face suddenly fell into an
expression of loathly incredulity. “What!”
he cried brokenly, “ain’t the cove goin’t’shout
after . all ? ” At another house of beer and
worldliness, the presiding “Berruther” was
accompanied by a minor constellation from the
Grand American Company of All Star Evan-
gelists. It was the duty of the inferior luminary
to buck up the congregation in the billiard-room
by timely “Hallelujahs” and glory whoops.
While the chief potentate wrestled in prayer, the
dimmer planet began to groan. '“'Say, you
shet yer ’ead ! ” whispered a hoarse voice in his
ear. “ All-men ! Ah-men-ah ! ” cried the inferior
lamp. “ Are—yeh—goin’—t’—shut—up?” hissed
the warning voice. “ Glory ! Glory ! ” piped the
secondary radiance. He said no more. A huge
worldling caught him up, grabbed a yard of the
hinder slack of his praying bags, took a half-hitch
on his collar, and rushed him fast into the outer
gloom. Of course there was an outcry, and then
the huge worldling explained. “See ’ere,” he
said, “the boss iv the’ouse put me on t’keep
order, ’n’ I won’t stand no interjections, see.”
TOO VENTURESOME.
“ You are my life.”
“ Well, you need not take your life in your
hands every minute! ”
MRS. MOTAVISH (having failed to get credit on the family Bible):
“ A-weel, it's karrd times when neither ma ain word or the word
o’ the Lord is good for twa whiskies .”
NOT CURRENCY.
“Jabez”: How widely the Australian’s
character differs from that of his near relative in
the United Kingdom. You see it when revivals
and such like foolishnesses are in progress. I
went to several of the late Dowie’s absurd shows,
also to the meetings which the Evangelists, now
at work in Melbourne, held in Sydney some years
ago. The audiences, or congregations, or what-
ever they may be called, invariably held them-
selves severely in check. They were almost de
pressingly calm and level-headed. The only
really strong emotion I saw any of them betray
was when one of their number was flung out for
disorderly conduct, and then they laughed heartily
and long, and mostly got passed out themselves
for their pains. Nothing like this, for instance,
which is reported in a London paper (12/4/’O9),
occurred :
A Pentecostal Mission was held this week at the Park
Hotel, Cardiff... . People came to it from places as far
away as Nottingham and London. The leader was Mr.
Smith Wigglesworth, who thundered forth the following
welcome : “ Come on, brethren ; come on, come on. Ha !
ha 1 ba 1 Glory, glory, glory! Blood, blood, blood 1
Amen.”
A middle-aged man writhed in apparently agonised
emotion, and cried and sobbed
like a heaTt-broken child. One
man’s body was fearfully con-
torted. When physical collapse
seemed inevitable the penitent
burst forth into wild laughter.
“ You are coming on, brother,”
said Mr. Wigglesworth. “Per-
severe, brother.” Then, pulling
a small scent bottle from his
waistcoat pocket, he poured
the liquid contents on the
kneeling man’s head. The
effect was magical, and the
man became subdued.
A dishevelled, crimson-faced
woman looked with haggard
stare into vacancy, and then
threw herself on the floor,
where she screamed and
groaned and laughed, agony
and joy alternating. Another
woman, on her knees in an ob-
scure corner, gave vent to
sounds resembling the cry of a
lamb.
The scene continued for
three hours, relieved occasion-
ally by hymns and the sobering
advice of one leader, »ho
prayed that brethren should
not overstep the mark.
History relates that Ma-
homet, wlio was an epi-
leptic subject, used to carry
on in this fashion when
delivering the Koran. His
veins stood out, his face
became hideouslydistorted,
and finally he fell as though
drunk, and grovelled on the
ground. _£n the midst of
his grovedings lie gave
forth his sudra. The half-
starved and uneducated
Arab slaves of the Meccan
valley were impressed, but
his cultured friends gather-
ed round, and tapped their
foreheads significantly, and
made disparaging remarks
concerning his sanity. The
modern Message-Giver has
not the excuse Mahomet
had of being a poet. He
either howls purposely and
inartistically about Gore,
or supplies a crude and
unconvincing picture of
Sheol, with the kettle
boiling. It is much to this continent’s credit, it
seems to me, that it receives him with indiffer-
ence. Wherever the Briton is half-starved and
wholly miserable the revivalist or new-creed
monger makes a tremendous hit, and it is a tragic
and significant thing that he is making hits broad -
cast in the Ma Country just now.
* *
A striking incident in the Broken Hill strike
7
was a strike of strike pickets on May 21. lhe
„• , • , . ,
strike pickets were striking work for the day, and
the new pickets were about to take their place
when they noticed the presence of two strike
leaders who were responsible for calling the strike
off ’ A f ener , al strike of took place at
once, and pickets were appointed to prevent the
strike pickets from picketing the strike.
The Thames Star (Maoriland) recently
produced this :
Mr. S. Mays, Crown Prosecutor, to-day commented on
the great increase of crime in Auckland, and on the large
number of criminals who under shelter of the Act t hat
allowed bookmakers and clerks to be licensed, now
evaded the police. Every boat brought some of the scum
of Australia.
Of course it is very sad, but after all these things
tend to balance themselves. Just now every' boat
is bringing the scum (or otherwise) of Maori-
land to Australia, and this country is try-
ing not to complain. The worst of the
Miorilander these times is that he is so
inflated at the enormous increase of his
debt that he doesn’t believe he has any
criminals of his own, so when things aren’t
too good he at once rises up in his wooden
house —Maoriland houses are almost all wood
—and states with grief that the scum of
some other country is pouring in. The best
thing he could do under these circumstances
would be to shut the scum out.
-**■»•*
Melbourne sassiety is still mildly in-
teresting itself in a recent distressing case,
boomed into notoriety by the Age, in which
a young country girl was seduced by her
employer (a Gippsland cocky) and left
stranded with an unwanted infant in her
arms. Vida Goldstein’s Women’s League
now proposes that seduction should be made
a criminal offence. Various bald-headed
legislators have announced their intention
of introducing a Bili making seduction by a
single man equivalent to marriage, accord-
ing to the law of Moses, or some other
ancient Hebrew. One amiable old gentle-
man suggests that seduction should be re-
garded as a legal marriage in every case, so that
where a married mau is concerned he could be
gaoled for bigamy. Bald-headed law-makers and
law-dispensers seem to get into the habit of
prescribing marriage as a panacea for all evils. A
Ballarat J.P. recently discharged a prisoner on
condition that he married trie girl. Yet there
wasn’t any girl in the case—the charge being one
of arson.
Adelaide, the only State capital in the
Commonwealth which already owns a motor-car
“rank,” is to have its first half-dozen taxi-cabs
by the early days of July ; and it throws out its
little chest and says proudly that they are going
to be away ahead of the Melbourne taxis, because,
even though the latter haven’t got their second
teeth yet, quite a lot of new patents have been
granted since they were born. As Adelaide says
much the same thing—with a deal of truth —when
it compares its electric cars with those of Sydney,
its perpetually thrown-out chest begins to give it
the appearance of a pouter pigeon.
* * * *
“ Westralia.n Scribe ” writes :
The dead and gone Perth Morning Herald is throwing
off a long train of unpleasant effluvia. Originally started
by Lovekin, with the assistance of the late explorer,
Alick Forrest, it at once entered on a gaudy career.
John Forrest was the State—one and indivisible. Money
came pouring in through the Customs, thousands of gold
seekers were streaming into the country, and loans were
floated on the London market with the ease that marks
the financial transactions of the heir to vast estates when
coming of age. Coolgardie was booming, and Hannan’s
was going even stronger, so the time was opportune to
start a second daily and cut into the Government adver-
tising. For the first couple of years the two Perth morn-
ing papers scooped in £lOOO monthly between them, and
the Herald actually got the lion’s share. Up to that
time the old West Australian had floundered along in an
out-of-elbows fashion —so hard up at times that there was •
not a week’s supply of paper on the premises, and the
bank manager had to be consulted before the wages sheet
materialised into a cheque. The gold rush altered all
that, and to-day the older paper has once again the field
to itself, and is a sound, prosperous concern. After
Coolgardie’s fitful fever, and the settling down of things
generally, Government advts. were curtailed considerably,
and, as that constituted the mainstay of the paper, the
Herald fell off. On Alick Forrest’s death the shares went
a-begging. Lovekin induced A. E. Morgans—then a sup-
posed plutocrat, millionaire, Rockefeller and Pierpont
Morgan rolled into one—to boost the concern up for a
while. Morgans had political ambitions, and thought a
morning paper would come in handy ; hence the avidity
with which he fell in with Lovekin’s scheme. The country
wouldn’t stand Morgans at any price, and he put up a
record by being' the shortest-lived Premier in Australasia
bar 18—that is to say he lasted one month and two days,
and but for the fact that one Tasmanian Premier, two
Queenslanders, six Maorilanders and nine South Aus-
tralians were even more sudden than that, he would have
held a record. People who know him say he should have
had a record —he deserved it. The strange vicissitudes of
Lovekin’s bantling were by no means ended. Nanson, a
long, lean, ex-bank clerk, who had given up ledgers and
pass-books for journalism, put several thousands into the
Herald, and some wild fights took place among share-
holders. A state of siege existed for several days at
a time. Lovekin discreetly withdrew to a distance
and went away on a long trip. A South African
war relief fund, running up to over £7OO, was
for a long time unaccounted for, and it took
a multitude of persistent agitation to get an approximate
statement as to what had become of the pennies and shil-
lings. Then it became known that Nanson, who had gone
in for politics, had sold out to the local head of the
AN OLD LANDMARK.
Here you wish to abolish your Upper Houses and State
Governors, and now in the Mother Country the same
Socialistic feeling is becoming more and more apparent.
I should be sorry to see a grand old institution like the
Peers abolished.— Globetrotter.
THE FAT GENTLEMAN : “ M’Lud, I offer you my
respectful and tearful sympathy.”
Roman Catholic chinch, and it was not long- before the
sacerdotal character of the new proprietary was evident.
All horse-racing and betting- news were carefully eschewed,
and a mighty effort was made to check the gambling
spirit by withholding wicked and depraved information.
Even the Methodists and Christian Jews guffawed, and
prodded each other with Revised Editions of the Holy
Scripture. Never did a daily paper fall with such abrupt-
ness. The weekly losses ran up to £l5O, and the Church
of Rome gave up the struggle. Father Keogh, a big,
good-hearted Irishman, Vicar-General and confidential
adviser to Bishop Gibnev, found himself far beyond Ins
depth, and with his altogether unexpected death the
Herald passed into the dust heap. Now there lias been
a sordid quarrel over the signatures attached to certain
pro.-notes. Land agents have been suing Bishop Gibnev
for money advanced on certain endorsements alleged to
have been made by him, but most emphatically repu-
diated. Meanwhile Lovekin is content with running the
only evening paper in Perth—a production boug-ht by the
public simply because there is no other. The population
of Perth and surrounding places within a 20-mile radius
is 80,000, so there ought to be room for another paper.
THE HONORED HONORARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is a great honor to be a Justice of the Peace. — Mr.
Justice /’ring at Albury ( N.S. IF.).
No more the ancient J.P. japes—those jokes unkind and
coarse,
But sackcloth for the joker, and cold ashes, and remorse.
Yes) we have erred- —we’ve scoffed loud scoffs at J.P’s.,
far too much.
Regret is ours—our old contempt is shrivelled at the
touch
Of truth. Nay, swear not underbreath, nor moan
“ Jehosaphat?”
There’s honor in the J.P. job —and who’d have thought of
that ?
In honor full}' found, and all the human virtues rare,
What though his manner’s sometimes strange—though
he have little hair
To crown his brow ; though stout, and short of breath,
and temper, see
Him seated high, a noble soul, in judgment placidly—
A mass of ancient wisdom and assorted provenders,
Telling the wild washlady what he thinks of her and
hers !
Honor? And where shall honor be if not in men like this
Who daily order Bibles up for witnesses to kiss?
Mis honor is not dragged in dirt, nor trampled in the
mire ;
His hands are clean ; his J.P.-ship is not for public hire !
He feels his pomp most keenly, and so do the court police—
He’s simply full of dignity, this Justice of the Peace !
VICTORIA.
LIARBIRD.
IN GOULBURN-STREET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw to-day in Goulburn-street
A white man at a heathen’s feet —
A boot-black with a careworn brow,
Who cleaned the foot-gear of a Chow-
In Goulburn-street.
The prosperous heathen posed with grace,
A large cigar stuck in his face.
Big gems adorned his claw-like hands,
He issued sharp and stern commands—
In Goulburn-street.
Thought I, “The parable is meet,
The parable of Goulburn-street —
The sweating Christian on his knees,
The lordly Buddhist man at ease—
In Goulburn-street.”
I looked Time squarely in the face,
And saw the Tragedy of Race—
A thousand Chows in tailored suits,
A thousand white men cleaning boots—
In Goulburn-street.
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
Royal
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“ NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
a Winding Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Rookbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating
Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you
Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
will find them all illustrated and priced in Cameron
machinery. Addresses:— _ «««..,-*
CAIVBERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen-s Bridge Strert, MEL3OURNE I Lydiard Street, BALLARAT;
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
New State-Governor Chelmsford had a pleasant
bit of news to welcome him to his new dominions ; word
had that day come through to the Government that, of
its £3,000,000 loan, the underwriters had been stuck with
no less than £2,200,000. In all, therefore, N. S. Wales
has asked this year for £4,500,000, and the underwriters
have been left with £3,400,000. The last awful fiasco
occurred in the face of the fact that the Government tried
all sorts of cheap-Jack methods to push the loan off, in-
cluding the offer to pay three months’ interest a month
after the date of issue. The London Financial News
acidly remarks that N. S. Wales has worn out its
welcome on the loan market, and “ the fiasco should
convey to the Government an unforgettable lesson.” The
Sydney daily papers, which dearly love a loan, say.it
wasn’t a fiasco—wasn’t the loan underwritten? The
same authorities will next yell, after a vessel has been
wrecked, that it really wasn’t a wreck because the marine
underwriters will have to pay up. What N.S. W. and the
other States have got to realise is that, if every vessel a
shipping co. sent out was wrecked on its first voyage,
that co. would presently find it impossible to get insur-
ance. It is quite true that N.S.W. has got all the money
it has asked for this year; but it has collected three-
fourths of it from the wreck-insurance people, and the
wreck-insurance people are not going to continue that
game for long.
This remark of the Financial News that
N. S. Wales has worn out its welcome, coming on top
of the two fiascoes, would be enough to make any State
Treasurer shiver if he really realised the position. For,
whether it has worn out its welcome or not, N. S. Wales
has put itself in the position that it simply must go on
the market. It has floated loan after loan without a
thought of a sinking fund ; and yet, though it has no
sinking fund accumulated, it has undertaken to pay the
following amounts within the next three years :
1910 .. .. .. £3,766,600
1911 .. .. 1,000,000
1912 9,884,508
Total (three years).. £14,651,108
That’s enough to go on with, though it may be briefly
remarked that the same awful financial plunger has
undertaken to repay another £16,600,000 by 1918. And it
has no sinking fund, and the fairly big cash balance it had
a while ago it has exhausted ; therefore all it can offer is
its own lOU—the discredited lOU which it hasn t
been able to get the public to take this year. What it
has done is to pledge its word not merely that it will pay,
but that J. Bull will lend. If he won’t lend, then N. S.
Wales must fall into the soup and be a defaulter. Prob-
ably things won’t get as bad as that. Either J. Bull Cohen
or some other Cohen always will lend oX a price, and
N. S. Wales has put itself in the position that, no matter
what the price, it must borrow. It faces that cheerless
position with two loan fiascoes in the immediate foie-
ground, the Financial News at its back whispering that
it has worn out its welcome, and in the middle distance
one lot of very determined-looking Cohens waving the
State’s lOU's, and in the background another more
shadowy but equally determined-looking lot of bandits
ready to come in and take advantage of the misgoverned
State’s frightful necessities. And we can’t even be
certain that this last lot of bandits will come to our rescue.
„ * * ■*
The Bank of New South Wales
To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1903.. 115,793 10 p.c. = 100,000 15,793 1,331,072
Sept 1903.. 117,370 10 „ ~ 100,000 17,370- 1,348,442
Mar 1904.. 119,582 10 „„ 100,000 19,582 1,368,024
Sept’ 1904.. 120,435 10 „„ 100,000 20,435 1,388,459
Mar., 1905.. 127,811 10 „ „ 100,000 27,811 1,416,270
Sept., 1905.. 126,963 10 „ „ 100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar 1906 . 129,385 10 „ „ 100,000 29,385 1,472,618
Sept 1906.. 130,115 10 ~ „ 100,000 30,115 1,502,733
_ _ 1( . n7 j 141,581 10 „„ 100,000 26,581 I 1 529 314
Mar., 1907.. j voted to Provident Fund 15,000 f ’
Sept., 1907.. 142,966 lOp.c. = 110,635 32,331 1,561,645
Mar., 1908.. 156,742 10 ~ „ 124,399 32,348 1,593,988
Sept., 1908.. 167,928 10 „„ 125,000 42,928 1,636,916
Mar., 1909.. 176,426 10 ~ ~ 125,000 51,426 1,688,342
It grows almost monotonous, this steady increase of pio-
fits since Australia in general and N. S. Wales in parti-
cular was blighted and blasted by Federation and the
Protection that came with it. In five years the capital
of the bank has been increased by 25 per cent. ; yet,
though the 10 per cent. div. has been maintained, the
sum put to reserves is nearly three times greater than it
was five years ago, and, besides, £lO,OOO has again been
voted to the Provident Fund. It is highly probable,
no doubt, that in the earlier days of Federation
this and other banks’ profits were really better
than they were shown to be. The managers—
good old Freetrade Conservatives, many of them—saw
that things were improving, but fully expected a
reaction. But the reaction hasn’t come. Instead, Aus-
tralia has continued to make strides that would be
astonishing if the benefits of Protection had not been so
well proved elsewhere ; and, as anybody can tell who
notes the extraordinary number of great buildings put
up, in Sydney especially, during the last three years,
there has been a fine growth of confidence in the future.
Old debts which this and other banks have long regarded
as doubtful, and some of which they were steadily writing
off, have been turning out good ; arid between that and
the excellence of the current business, this bank is able
to show' the splendid g-rowth of profits set out above.
True, compared with the record of one or two others, the
profits are not high if calculated on the total of capital
and reserves combined. For a few terms past they work
out as follows
Sept., 1905 .. £7 8 8 p.c. Sept., 1907 .. £7 12 10 p.c.
Mar., 1906 .. 710 3 „ Mar., 1908 .. 715 11 „
5ept.,1906 .. 7 910 „ Sept.,l9oB .. 8 4 1 ~
Mar., 1907 .. 7 4 1,, Mar., 1909 .. 810 / ~
That, of course, is per annum. But the practices of
bank’s differ. Some, instead of adding largely to reserves,
prefer to write off big amounts ; one or two have thus
almost wiped out the premises account. Comparisons of
the rates of earnings of the various banks are, therefore,
liable to be misleading. Whatever its practice, a bank
might easily show a high rate of earnings, and yet be
on the brink of disaster. That frequently happened
close upon 20 years ago, as the result of a boom in private
and public borrowing, followed in the ordinary course by
inflated values and extravagant advances. Fortunately,
though Australia has had a boom in country lands, it
hasn’t had the other general sort of boom which follows
upon the rolling in of hogsheads of foreign capital, other-
wise debt. On the contrary, except in Maonland, there
has been far less borrowing than usual. Consequently,
though some trouble may arise from the over-valuation
of country lands, it seems very unlikely that, unless a
catastrophe happens, any large amount of recent reserve-
additions will by-and-bye have to be written off on the
ground that the profit was, after all, fictitious or merely
paper profit. And even in the case of country lands the
trouble can’t be anything like what happened over
suburban allotments; for while the empty suburban
allotment can produce nothing but rate notices, the
country lands are always good for something that you
can eat or W'ear.
Comparing this year’s B. N.S.W. position with
last year’s we get this :
Mar., 1908. Mar., 1909.
Notes .. .. £1,003,124 £1,016,806 Dee. £46,318
Bills, etc 3,575,535 3,793,666 Inc. 218,131
Deposits .. .. 26,936,662 27,297,304 Inc. 360,642
Liquid Assets .. 14,360,275 14,827,968 Inc. 467,693
Advances.. .. 20,737,153 20,918,150 Inc. 180,997
Premises .. .. 690,000 685,000 Dec. 5,000
The changes are not very noteworthy. The net increase
of deposits is rather less than it has been in recent years ,
but this is largely due to the decrease in Government de-
posits. Advances have grown hut slightly ; banks have
mostly kept a pretty firm hand on the money bag, the
result of the slackening off of deposits. The outlook,
however, appears to be better for would-be borrowers.
The bank’s cash position is, as usual, very strong ; it
owes in all £32,137,776 and has £14,827,968, or 46 p.c. of
that, in liquid assets.
* * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney):- Tq Re . Be _
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1899.. £4235 7 per cent. = £2325 £l9lO £^,145
Forfeited capital .. .. 16
1900 .. 4392 7 per cent. = 2339 2053 _2l>H4
1901 .. 4911 7 ~ „ 2448 2463
1902 5261 7 ~ ~ 2537 2724 26,401
1903 ” 5900 7£ „ „ 2762 3138 29,539
1904 .. 6591 9 „ „ 3355 3236 32,775
1905 .. 7639 10 „ ~ 3792 384 i 36,622
1906 .. 8952 12£ „ „ 4742 4210 40,832
1907 .. 9249 10 „ „ 4126 5123 45,955
1908 .. 9535 12£ „ „ 5659 3876 49,831
1909’.. 4804 10 „ „ 2297 2507 52,338
This co. has been helped to a large slice of the prosperity
which has come Sydney’s way during the last few years.
It is in the land purchase and subdivision business ; ana
it doesn’t have to rely wholly on a boom to earn bread
and butter. Sydney is growing steadily : somebody is
always getting married and setting up in house-keeping,
and business and manufacturing premises are pushing the
city population out into the suburbs. Hence there is
always some dealing in land, apart from the speculative
business. The chief risk arises from the fact that there
is always more trafficking when things are booming than
when they are not; consequently, a co. of this sort is
liable to have most of its own and its depositors’ money
out in land and advances to purchasers just when values
are highest and the security worst. The co.’s reserves
are, however, very substantial; and probably there are
some reserves that it doesn’t show. At any rate, there is
a suspense account of unknown size, apparently made up
of expected profits from uncompleted sales. Other details
of the business follow :
Oct., Oct., Oct., April,
1900. 1905. 1908. 1909.
Debts (deposits, etc.).. £17,417 £26,219 £55,907 £58,083
Freeholds, etc. .. 29,999 26,163 65,303 57,045
Advances .. .. 43,611 75,149 88,314 95,152
Other assets .. .. 154 1,551 165 lo
The capital is £67,738 in £1 shares ; 15s. has been called
upon 49,738 shares, and ss. on the 18,000 issued a little
while back at par ; but £4153 has been also paid in
advance of calls. The present accounts do not include
any of the probable profits made out of the sale of the
Croydon (Malvern) estate, which took place just after the
half-year closed.
* * * *
Provident Life Assurance Co., of Maoriland,
but doing business also in Australia :
Expenses Total Carried to
Total and Divi- Out- Assurance De-
June, Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund. fieit.
1898 .. £8,673 £2530 £7,837 £10,367 - £2,203
1899 9,177 2835 6,462 9,297 2,323
1900 .. 9,797 2936 6,195 9,131 £666 1,607
Capital forfeited 60 1>5 9 ?
1901 . 10,73 S 3332 6,205 9,537 1,201 396
Assurance
Fund.
1902 .. 12,237 3907 7,231 11,138 1,099 703
Capital forfeited 20 723
1903 .. 13,472 3988 7,791 11,779 1,693 2,416
Taken over from old co. .. .. 612 3,028
1904’ 15,289 3434 8,449 11,883 3,406 6,434
1905 .'. 15,826 4342 8,402 12,744 3,082 9,516
1906 .. 18,350 3650 10,793 14,443 3,907 13.4..3
1907 .. 20,357 4375 11,775 16,150 4,207 17,630
Premiums on 9500 new shares, £1328 .. 18,958
1908 .. 34,675 4586 15,645 20,231 14,444 33,402
The published balance sheet shows “Funds at end of.
year, £47,142.” The difference between what the co.
says’and what The Bulletin says is accounted for in this
way :
• Funds as per co.’s a/cs .. .. ..£47,142
Less capital .. .. .. ..£lO,OOO
„ dividend .. .. •• 6"
„ property written up .. 3,240
13,740
Net Assurance Fund .. .. £33,402
As to the property written up : in 1903 this co. took over
the ashes of the Provident and Industrial office. The
latter had attempted to varnish up its accounts by
writing up its premises and by reckoning, some
money spent on getting business as an asset. The
new co. struck out the latter item as too ridi-
culous, but stuck to the new valuation of the pre-
mises, and got some new valuations pf its own to
support that view. It is, however, an objectionable and
dangerous way of dressing an insurance co. s balance
sheet at the best of times, and during a property boom it
is more objectionable than usual. Apart from that, how-
ever, the business figures have taken a spring during the
year. This is also reflected in the expense rate, and a
whoop has been indulged in on that account. But the
bare figures are misleading, because of the total premium
income for the year (£33,163) no less than £10,415 repre-
sented annuity business—payments ma.de to the co. in
large lumps, to be repaid by the co. in annual instal-
ments. This is a highly speculative class of business—
so speculative that many cautious offices don’t care about
touching it at all, wherefore annuity rates vary a grea.t
deal. Even, however, with the help of this annuity busi-
ness, the expense rate is still very high. The rate for the
past few years has been as follows: —
1901 .. £63 4 8 per cent. I 1905 ... £5l 18 11 per cent.
1902 .. 59 110 „ | 1906 .. 58 16 3 ~
1903 .. 57 16 7 ~ 11907 .. 57 16 9 „
1904 .. 52 16 4 ~ I 1908 .. 45 2 4 ~
Most of the policies—probably 95 per cent, of them—are
on the Industrial plan : it is mentioned that 9885 new
policies were introduced during the year, and, exclusive
of annuities, the premiums received during the year on
both old and new business totalled only £22,74/. The
time, however, lately arrived when the co. thoug'bt it
ought to begin Ordinary business, and the necessary
steps were taken during the year. This is a proper
move ; 12 months ago, in fact, the comment was
made here that it was very doubtful whether an office
ought to be allowed to issue Industrial policies only. In
itself Industrial insurance is very poor business. One of
the few things that can be said in its favor is that it
leads people to take out the more rational Ordinary
policy later on; and no Industrial office which doesn’t
constantly keep before its policy-holders the advantages
of passing on to the Ordinary branch deserves any con-
sideration. Where, however, an insurance office is of a
proprietary character something more than a mere state-
ment that it takes Ordinary business should accom-
pany all its published accounts, and all its invita-
tions to do business; there ought to be a clear
statement indicating what proportion, if any, of the
Ordinaryprofitsgototheshareholders. In this case, though
only a 5 per cent. div. is paid, the 9500 new shares, 10s.
paid, realised a net premium of about 2s. 9d. per share ;
and that suggests that something sweeter than 5 per cent,
is expected in the future. Of the capital (now £10,000)
and the other funds, £15,000 is on fixed deposit, and
£22,851 is out in municipal debentures and mortgages
These latter two very different assets should be separated.
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (Westralia).
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Mar., *03..23 £ e6O 32 pc. = 12,174 308 11.178 98,018
Premiums on new share issue.. .. A-/&
Sept.,-03.. 14,740 24 pc. = 12,160 264 2,316 102,609
Premiums on new share issue.. .. 12,834
Mar., ’04.. 29,717 32 p.c. = 16,213 346 13,158 128,601
Premiums on new share issue.. .. 5,265 i-Ss,»dd
Sept.,’o4.. 19,571 24 p.c. = 12,174 326 7,0' 140,937
Securities written up .. .. • • 1 >350 742,-8/
Mar. ’05.. 24,706 32 p.c. = 16,232 238 8,236 150,523
c ’O5 19 663 24 12,174 267 7,222 157,/45
Mar ’’o6 ' 9 4'383 32 ~ ~16,232 186 7,965 165,710
24;; 12:174 832 32105,742
(And Div. Tax.) ,„ r .„
Mar ’O7 24 601 24 p.c. = 12,783 617 11,201 176,943
Sent’ ’O7 '' 14,528 24 „ „ 12;783 1020 725 177,668
Mar.,’’oB.. 22,829 24 „ ~12,783 786 9,260 186,9-8
o pnr ’OS 15 265 24 ~ 32,783 697 1,/85 188,713
Mar.',’ ’O9 !! 241743 24 „ ~12,783 1777 10,183 198,896
Besides the amounts shown above as written off, something
is as a rule, charged direct to profit and loss to cover
depreciation of plant, hotel furniture, etc. ; for the past
term the item was £2284. Freeholds are, on the other
hand, kept in at cost. The holding of this class of assets
has moved as follows :
Mar., 1902. Sept., 08. Mar. v o9
Brewery (land, buildings) .. £49,740 £74,812 £75,756
Hotel properties .. .. 49,045 176,883 1,7,030
Apart from these the principal assets are brewery plant,
gradually written down from £81,961 (cost) to £3/,990 ;
advances and other debts, £66,881 ; stock, £19,457.
Perth and other Westralian hotel properties may have
been rising in value, so that it may be unnecessary to
write off anything for depreciation ; but it will be
noted that the bulk of this property has been
bought since 1902, and the big rise in values happened
before then. Freehold rents for the past year totalled
£13,878, which meant nearly £7 17s. per cent, on book
value, less whatever repairs may have cost. It is an
excellent return and in ordinary circumstances would
mean that the asset wasn’t over-valued. But a high rent
return doesn’t always mean that ; sometimes it means
that the place is ricketty and the maintenance of capital
values very uncertain, wherefore landlords need to get in
enough to write down those values. Very likely some-
thing of that sort is the case in the West; yet this co. is
not using any of the income to write properties down,
but is regarding it all as profit. Apart from that, the
position is strong, and the dividend seems to he very
easily earned—one can judge that by the large additions
to reserves. As for the general brewery risk, arising
from the activity of the anti-liquor party, it is probably
less than in any other State, except, perhaps, Queensland.
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (Sydney)
Net Bonus to To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves .
1901.. £3Ol 6 p.c. = £45 £256 £256
1902.. 1528 6 ~ ~ 104 £1262 162 418
1903.. 2957 6,, ~ 253 2583 121 539
1904 . 2778 6 „ „ 320 2147 311 850
1905.. 4958 6„ „ 368 4188 402 1252
1906.. 4206 6 ~ „ 432 4126 900
1907.. 4352 6,, ~ 479 3873 900
1908.. 8010 6,, ~ 535 7285 190 1090
1909.. 9924 6 ~ ~ 705 9185 34 1124
This is one of two co-operative or semi-co-operative socie-
ties which handle the produce chiefly of the co-operative
factories, although some of the latter haven’t yet seen
the advantages of marketing in this way. The bonus to
consignors for the year amounts to 32 percent, of the
commissions paid by butter suppliers and 25 per cent, of
those paid by maize suppliers. These bonuses make
too big a hole in the profits and allow too little for re-
serves ; still it is probable that most of the money will
not have to be paid out, as consignors will have the
option of allowing, it to remain in the business, more
capital being necessary on account of the large turnovei
done nowadays. (In 1907 the sales totalled £556,160 ;
last year they reached £875,547.) The present capital is
£11,734, which is quite insufficient for a business of that
size, seeing that many of the sales are made on a monthly
settlement basis. In the interests, therefore, of the co-
operative suppliers themselves, it is desirable that the
bonuses should be drawn in shares; and there seems
every reason to expect that the present very fair dividend
will be continued on them.
Broken Hill Block 14:—
Writ-
ten
Loss. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Sept., 1903 .. £2,247 Nil £5,522
Mar., 1904 .. 2,618 Nil
Forfeited capital added to Reserves, £29 2,yd3
Sept., 1904 .. 2,578 Nil
• Deficit.
Mar., 1905 .. 533 Nil 178
Profit. Reserves.
Sept., 1905 .. 21,855 Nil 21,677
Premiums on pref. shares, £476 o’ 1 o
Mar., 1906 .. 17,595 £6,335 33,413
Sept., 1906 .. 22,963 11,500
Mar., 1907 .. 54,747 21,500 £4333 '3,790
Sept., 1907 .. 78,170 36,500 4179 111,281
Mar., 1908 .. 11,217 36,500 3387 82,611
Sept., 1908 .. 7,953 1,500 3575 85,519
Loss.
Mar., 1909 .. 4,170 1,500 79,849
But the future is not to be judged by the history of the
past three or four years. Broadly, there were two
classes of ore in the Broken Hill mines—the oxidised, a
surface ore ; and the sulphides, lying underneath. Out
of the rich and easily treated oxidised ores the cos. made
their great profits in the early days. From their very
nature, however, being surface ores, the oxidised ores
were necessarily of limited extent. In rnost cases they
have been long since worked out. But it happened that
at 810ck.14 they were in irregular bodies, some of which
were missed in the rush of the early days. Driven
almost to desperation by the poverty of the sulphides,
Block 14 began fossicking near the surface and rooted
out the overlooked bodies. Hence nearly all the profits
shown in 1905-8. In the past six months 10,253 tons of
carbonates were sold ; but the whole of the proceeds and
more has been eaten up in the struggle to find other
bodies, and they have taken so much finding that only
about 15,000 tons are in sight, as against 12,000
tons six months ago. Some money has also gone
in boring to find more sulphides; but so tar
the search has revealed nothing, and the sulphide re-
serves stand at the old 220,000 tons, from which it is very
doubtful whether any profit could be made at present
prices. Other small bodies of carbonates may be found,
but the cost will be great; and the outlook, so far as sul-
phides are concerned, is very mournful. The co. has
big dumps of zinc tailings unsold, but they are not very
rich. There are 100,000 ordinary shares (£125,000) ana
100,000 preference shares (£30,000) ; the latter carry 10
per’ cent, interest, besides sharing equally with ordi-
naries in dividends. Liquid assets (including £53,115 cash)
exceed liabilities by £59,157.
„ * ■* *
Long-suffering Broken Hill Junction share-
holders have got a little butter on their bread at last. A
western lode of a permanent character was what the
mine wanted, but it took a long time to persuade the
directors to search for sucli a body. It was only after
the Broken Hill shareholders kicked that the Board be-
stirred itself, even though the scent had been picked up
by the manager at the north end of the 900 ft. level, xrue,
the Junction has always been patchy, and the work
done so far on the western side has not proved
beyond a doubt that the lode will pay dividends.
But there is sufficient to justify hope. Some rattling
o-ood ore has been passed through in the south drive on
the 775 ft. level, and if the bulk assays.have not been as
high as rumor declared a couple of weeks ago, they are
at least better than anything milled since 1905. It this
ore body can he proved at the 1000 ft. level the Junction
should again be one of the producing mines of the
Barrier. Meantime, so many shareholders are sick of the
present control that a movement has been started to have
the management handed over to 8., M. and Co.
After long idleness the Sulphide Corporation s
(Central mine’s) slime plant at Broken Hill is again in
commission. This plant was erected about 2J years ago
to treat the rich slime dump purchased from Block 10.
An excellent concentrate was made by the plant, but the
co. couldn’t at the time satisfactorily “place” the
product, rich in silver though it was. A high percentage
of zinc made it such a difficult smelting proposition that
it took a German firm about twelve months to find out a
way of treating the stuff to advantage. The plant was
designed to concentrate 50,000 tons of slimes a year, and
it is'now being run at the full capacity.
* * * *
Kangiara (N.S.W.) continues the policy of tear-
ing out the block of high-grade ore developed by the
north drive, and is making no provision for the future
by developing further payable ore. The face of the drive
(280 ft. from the main shaft) shows only stringers of chal-
copyrite carrying low gold and silver values. For some
considerable distance back the only feature of this drive is
its lack of values. The south drive still shows a fair
width of galena, with splices of country scattered through
it. So far, the returns have all been from the shoot reach-
ing from the main shaft to a point 200 ft. north. Ore re-
serves are limited by (1) the depth of the level, 110 ft. ;
(2) the fact that the shoot does not reach near the sur-
face in anything like its present dimensions; (3) the re-
moval of what payable ore outcropped, by previous
owners ; (4) the quantity mined by the present co. The
alarming rate at which the stopes are being depleted to
keep up shipments promises to exhaust the revenue-pro-
ducing ore before the necessary sinking and driving can
be carried out to open up new stopes. Reasons for not
sinking and developing further ore no doubt are (1)
fear that the present payable shoot may not go
down ; (2) the struggle to maintain the present output
is so strenuous that there is no time left for sinking. To
assist in elevating the returns, orders were issued some
time a<m to start the antiquated blast furnace. Evidently
the metallurgist in charge has displayed a little dis-
cretion, and is postponing that event. So far, only 51)0
tons are going through the roasting heaps, and none is
finished. To give the plant any sort of a show three
times this amount should be in the roast heaps. Lately,
little has been heard of the vast quantity of oxidised ore
awaiting the furnace, and which was to flux the sulphides
and produce great wealth. It is now evident that the
furnace is only to put through carefully-picked ore after
it has passed the roast heaps. This knocks rather a large
hole in the estimated ore available for furnace treatment.
This quantity has been further reduced by the man in
charge discarding a great deal of the pile passed over to
him for treatment. Part of this discarded stuff may pay
to' concentrate; but part is merely mullock. The
present smelting scheme is vastly different from that
previously outlined, and is much more practical.
Assuming a successful run with the furnace, the
returns will be swollen while the accumulated heap
lasts: but there is little hope of the present stopes
feeding even the most diminutive of blast furnaces for
any lengthy period.
Outside the parent Kangiara mine, none of the
others have yet discovered more than a hatful of. ore.
The north drive is bearing almost due north ; and the
Kangiara North is sinking near the boundary in the hope
of striking a continuation of the lode channel. Other
northern shows might almost as well hope to strike the
South Pole.
The Adelaide show with the ambitious title of
Kangiara Proprietary is sinking south-east from the
parent co.’s main shaft, and is dependent on the lode
taking a slight twist into its territory. This assumption
is somewhat reasonable when the bearing of the south
drive is considered, together with the short distance
between this drive and the Proprietary boundary. Also
one shaft shows a lode formation containing splashes of
chalcopyrite and galena. After finding the ore channel
these shows will commence to ascertain if it contains any-
thing worth having. . * •
The wild-cat controversy which has been waged
long and furiously by the two newspapers at Wyalpng
(N S W ) in respect to certain properties controlled by a
syndicate, was advanced to a conclusive stage the other
day when the sheriff’s officer submitted to auction two of
the muclnboomed properties. The Klondike, including
lease, machinery and poppet heads, brought £4O ; and
the Brookmans United, £3O. *
The Sydney-owned Great Britain is turning
over some Emmaville (N.S. W.) freeholds which have been
worked in some cases twice before ; but with modern
plant and present tin prices it can make more than a do
of it. The co. has a lease, and sees about seven years
work ahead. Last half-year (to about the end of April) it
showed a profit of £1.452, after paying royalty; but the
co.’s new sluicing plant only worked the last seven weeks,
and 31 out of a total of 63 tons were won in that time.
As there are only 8735 shares issued, a shilling div.
absorbs no more than £437. At present theco. is earning
close up to 2s. per month, but Is. or thereabouts is being
put by to secure other ground and equip it. The unissued
shares will be sent out as part payment for the properties
under option—Moore’s and the Rothschild blocks.
* * * *
Cobar Gold Mines, Ltd., still remains the joke
of the Oobar field. The mine isn’t far off from being the
bi<«>-est thing on the field ; yet it has been practically idle
foTtwo years. Pellew Harvey, the consulting engineer
and one of the directors, came and went with his hand-bag
crammed full of data regarding the Mount Morgan roast-
ing and cyanide process ; but, considering the disappoint-
ments they have had, shareholders will probably kick
when asked to put up the money required to give this
plant a trial. An offer, it is believed has been made for
the property, and it is probable.it will be accepted by the
owners, who must be thoroughly disgusted with the
whole affair. Pellew Harvey gave the staff a shock, and
a couple of officials have left suddenly. A little while
ago theco. built three cottages, and, after two of them
had been occupied for about 30 days, the three were
closed up. But that is quite characteristic of the
management in these latter days.
* * * ■*
Cobar Copper, Ltd. (old Young Australian and
Mount Pleasant), has let a tribute to work the property.
The mostly-British crowd which owns this claim still has
Nvmao-ee, Shuttleton and Burraga closed up. In the long
run itT probably pays to shut things down when the
horribly erratic copper market is low ; but it is shame-
fully roVh on the miners and the business people who
supply the miners ; and it must call for a bit of patience,
too, on the part of the shareholders.
“C S”■ Be Great Cobar (N.S.W.). “Widgeon”
drew attention in a recent Bulletin to the amount'of
copper that may have been taken from the furnace bot-
toms at Lithgow to help make that record output. An-
other item : What quantity of ore was taken from Oobar
Gold Mines (old Fort Bourke)? From eight to 12 drays
are carting about 70 tons a day to the copper mine and
this ore is probably responsible for a good deal of the 1600
odd ounces of gold reported for the four weeks ending
May 2 The co. is ulso buying ore from the O.S. A. field.
The supply of broken ore underground is gradually being
used up! and as the breaking of this ore was paid for by
the previous management, the expenses underground
lately are not a fair test of what the costs are, because
the co must increase the number of miners when the
broken ore is cleaned out. All expenses are b mg cut down
to bedrock, and the Blakemore management paid for a
lot of things that the present management will get a.l
the glory for. # * *
“Bodo-er” : Be par in late Bulletin re Wye
Waterholes Dredging Co., near Emmaville (N.S.W.). This
place is onlv a couple of miles from Emmaville on the
Glen Innes-road. It is 49 miles from Inverell. The rain-
fall has averaged 25 inches since the drought broke up.
The <*round has been worked for over 30 years, and is
not surface like Bourke’s Hill, the Elsie or the Briton. If
there was tin to pay, an unlimited supply of water could
be had from the Severn River a few miles away. Pro-
bably what is wrong with the Wye Co. s ground is more
want of tin than lack of water. Probably several thou-
sand tons of tin ore have been taken out of the Wyerie
o-round, as it is called at Emmaville, and certainly what
has been taken out before can’t be taken out again. The


PERPETUAL”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained
and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
F. H. LLOYD & GO. Ltd.
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers,
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALQOORLIE.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. VVm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others —-
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * » *
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavy grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work in hand. These
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4Jft. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.* U
v » * *
“Fibro T Cement” Asbestos Roofing Slates and
Sheets for lining and walling, are light, strong, durable,
cheap and easily fixed, as well as heat-resisting, ant and
acid proof. Largely adopted where comfort, appearance
and durability are considered. Particulars from James
Hardie and Co., Sydney or Melbourne.* [2
* * * •
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, London,
of 23/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited : —“ There is this good reason
why those who contemplate assurance should consider the
advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz : that its
policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehensive as
those of other such institutions, as witness the “Twelve
Option ” contract lately placed on the market.”*
-*--*•■**
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* » * *
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depdt for Best Yorkshire
“Farnley ” Iron.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax" brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are homing rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
•*■•*■*■*•
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospect) ve purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
* * » *•
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
-*•-*■**
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay' balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
Gibson. Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Syd-
ney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, have found a
great field in Australia for Jeffrey Elevating and Convey-
ing Machinery, which is being applied to most of the
industries where goods have to be handled in bulk.
Their Labor-Saving Appliances are doing good work in
many of the largest mines, breweries, wool stores and
factories in all parts of the Commonwealth, and the fact
that they can do three or four times as much work as
platform lifts under the same conditions, means a great
saving in time, labor and expense. Gibson, Battle will
be glad to send catalogues to anyone interested in this
class of machinery'.*
DIERCKS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd.
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS for
KRAUSS LOCOMOTIVES
as purchased by the Govts, of N.S.W., Victoria
and Tasmania, and all principal mining: com
parties, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. &R. Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [3
ground has belonged to different companies at different
times, and was once owned in England by Bryant and May.
They extracted from 10 to 15 per cent, royalty from the
miners who did the hard graft. It is said the Wye Co.’s
plant is one of the finest in the country, also that it
would require 1000 tons of ore to recoup the co. for its
outlay before there would be a penny available for divi-
dends.
* * * *
Sully’s Reduction Works (Wyalong, N.S.W.),
now being dismantled, have had an extremely chequered
career since their inception 15 years back. They were
designed on a big scale, with much capital at command,
but it was fully 12 months before the chlorination mill
was started. In the meantime, mine-owners with stone
at grass, weary of waiting for an opening, had sent it
elsewhere for treatment, at heavy expense for carriage.
It was soon found that the chlorination process was not
adapted for the treatment of the mineralised stone.
These costly appliances were thrown in the scrap heap.
Manager succeeded manager in the vain hope to make the
unwieldy plant pay its way. Fraser pans were intro-
duced, to be thrown aside. For a time some small measure
of success attended the introduction of a cyanide plant,
and more recently a stamper battery, which has not proved
a success. Altogether, the cost could not have been less
than £20,000. Failing to sell the works as a going con-
cern, the owner is now about to pull them down for
auction sale in sections.
* * « *
Principal Westralian results for April :
Value
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit, perton.
Great Boulder ..£16,212 £49,903 £26,450 61/7
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,773 52,141 20,125 42/1
Kalgurli .. .. 10,720 28,459 16,128 53/1
Ivanhoe .. .. 18,819 41,850 20,030 44/5
Sons of Gwalia .. 12,949 20.507 4,699 31/8
Associated .. .. 11,680 22,900 8,247 39/2
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,516 20,813 7,679 39/9
South Kalgurli .. 9,038 12,505 2,758 27/8
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,500 11,283 3,984 50/2
Lake View Consols .. 8,000 10,167 3,179* 25/5
Associated Northern 3,613 6,608 2,670 36/7
Black Range.. .. 2,108 6,820 2,965 64/8
Golden Ridge.. .. 2,265 5,748 2,826 50/9
Boulder Perseverance 18,825 28,369 5,759 30/2
Gwalia South.. .. 1,950 5,046 1,528 61/9
Hills Proprietary .. 1,100 2,514 1,224 45/10
Mararoa .. .. 2,278 4,326 1,905 38/
Gwalia Consolidated 4,773 8,032 876 33/8
North White Feather 2,175 3,316 507 30/6
Northern Mines .. 8,134 7,405 328 18/2
Vivien .. .. .. 3,287 3,941 109 24/-
Karangahake .. .. 700 1,642 167 46/10
Cumberland .. .. 530 1,565 67 59/
Orion 733 994 12 27/1
Loss.
Great Fingall.. .. 14,053 14,951 f 1,752 21/3
Boulder No. 1.. .. 2,520 1,493 682 11/10|
Golden Links.. .. 3,116 5,299 328 34/-
* Including £l2Ol derived from old slimes, t Including
£2668 expenditure on new plant. J Wretched extrac-
tion due to faulty filtering and precipitating ; the for-
mer is now alleged to have been overcome, and the
latter has “ improved considerably.”
* * * *
Ivanhoe Gold Corporation (W.A.) put up the
following record for 1908 Gross receipts, £513,397 ; total
expenditure, £258,605; net profit, £254,792; dividends,
£243,000; placed to reserve, £10,000; brought forward
(less £4250 deducted for law costs in the King case), £39 ;'
carried forward, £lB3l. Compared with the results for
1907, bullion yielded £24,000 less, and the shrinkage in
net profit is £6OOO ; but £5OOO Of the latter is accounted
for by the strike of woodcutters in July, which necessi-
tated a stoppage for seven days. Working costs were
further reduced during the year to 17s. BT9d. per ton,
while the total Westralian expenditure was brought down
to 20s. 10‘44d. per ton ; but, as the accounts clearly show,
the reductions are almost entirely due to less development
and a smaller outlay on plant. The general manager’s esti-
mate of reserves at December 31 was 934,089 tons of 495. Bd.
ore, while that of the consulting engineers was 1,112,502
tons of 48s. lid. ore. The two estimates are very close
as to value, but there is a difference of 178,413 tons in
the quantity. Compared with the previous year’s figures
the general manager’s estimate shows 7325 tons more in
bulk and half a crown a ton less in value, while that of
the consulting engineers shows 62,788 tons more in
quantity and 9d. per ton more in value. Since the year
closed developments in the bottom workings at 1970fb.
have been disappointing ; but the management is confi-
dent that good values will be met with when the drives
are carried beyond the comparatively small area of dis-
turbed ground.
* * * *
When the Ivanhoe’s books closed the eo. had,
in addition to mine, plant, ore reserves, and £23,000
worth of stores, a surplus of £286,016. Of this, £92,524
was ready cash and bullion, and £182,585 was invested.
The investments include railway, insurance, electric
lighting, and municipal stock and debentures, the bulk
being British railway 3,3 J, and 4 per cent, debenture
stock.
*, * * ■ v v
Actually and prospectively the Golden Horse-
shoe (W.A.) seems to be in a very prosperous position.
Last year it raked in a revenue of £618,340, and after
debiting all expenditure, including .the whole cost of de-
velopment and new equipment, £243,517 remained. This,
lumped with £54,754 brought forward, gave £298,271 to
play up. From this sum £35,071 has been deducted for
the purchase of the Ivanhoe South Extended leases and
equipment, and £240,000 for dividends, leaving!£23,2oo to
carry forward. The year’s operations show much the
same results as those of 1907. The're were 247,740 tons
treated, as against 247,020; the fine gold recovered
amounted to 145,3620 z. as compared with 147,6800 z.
The extraction was 86'96 per cent, of contents, as against
86'49, and the total cost per ton varied by about a hair’s
breadth. The estimated mill supply of 4’3 years remains
the same, but the average value of the ore treated
was about Is. , less, and so was the dividend
distribution. When the year closed the estimated value
of the mine was approximately £3 11s. per share, but
recent developments at 1500 ft. and in the long crosscut
from the Ivanho.e South Extended shaft at 2000 ft. have
tacked a bit on to this. So far the above crosscut, which
has now been extended nearly to the eastern boundary of
the Horseshoe lease, has the following performances to
its credit
Lode Cut. Width. Assay Value.
ft. dwt.
No. 1 1 .. 10
No. 2 (west branch) .. 5 .. 13
No. 2 3 .. 13
New lode .... 4 .. 5
No. 3 lode .. .. 7 .. 15
No. 3 (east branch) 18 .. 22
It will thus be seen that six payable ore bodies have been
met with en route. 1 At the end of 1908 the co. had cash,
bullion, investments, etc., amounting to £70,636, and a
miscellaneous lot of stores which the auditors certify to
be worth £36,080.
Hannan’s Reward (W. A.) has astonished every-
one by declaring- a 10 per cent, dividend out.of
royalties derived from an average yield of 10s. per
toil. This co. is a recent reconstruction of the Hannan s
Reward-Mount Charlotte, and works the historical patch
where gold was first specked at Kalgoorlie. tor the year
ended October last the tributes yielded £26,860, which,
with £lBO collected on account of interest and fees,
made a total revenue of £27,040. The payment of
the dividend will leave the co. with about £7668 in cash
and investments, plus profits earned since last October ,
but seeing it may shortly want all this, and a good deal
more, to carry on deep exploration, the loosening of its
purse-strings at the present juncture is not understand-
able. Maybe it wants to star on the past year s achieve-
ment, and doesn’t care a fig about the future.
* * * *
Boulder Main Reef mill (W. A.) has been loaned
to Chaffers, and the latter co. intends to crush oxidised
ore as soon after June las circumstances permit. Dia-
mond drilling- is the most popular form of development
work in the Boulder Main Reef at present, and the pro-
gress of a hole now being drilled at a depressed angle
from the 2270 ft. level, and which is expected to strike
the northern or Boulder boundary at 2700 ft., is being
watched with more than ordinary interest.
it * * *
Lancefield (W.A.) is having another shot at
gold extraction. The capacity of the plant is about 6000
tons a month, but it appears to be making such a good
fist of ore treatment that the management is already
“hollering” success, and getting ready to double the
present limit. Everything in the underground workings
is lovely, and in anticipation of the co. being at last treed
from its heart-breaking and pocket-emptying treatment
troubles, preference shares have had a rise London.
On the whole, the report of the Sons of Gwalia,
Ltd. (W.A.), for 1908 reads very well. The revenue
amounted to £235,385, and, after settling up this and
writing off that, a net profit of £60,266 remained. Out of
this sum, together with the balance brought forward,
£40,625 has been paid in dividends and £15,000 placed to
the reserve fund, leaving £6946 unappropriated. The
Board has since paid a bonus of 3d. per share, absorbing,
with taxes, £4266, so that the co. actually wound up the
year with £2680 on hand. An interim dividend of 9d.
per share free of taxes was paid last March out of the
profits of the current year, and with the output at £20,500
a month, and capital expenditure on its present scale,
the Board thinks that quarterly dividends at the same
rate can be maintained during the year. As a result of
satisfactory developments, the ore reserves have steadily
increased during the past 12 months, and are now esti-
mated at nearly three years’ supply. Like most of the
other big mining concerns in the West, the co. is well off
financially, and at the close of the year had a surplus in
coin, gold and securities of £55,988.
« * * •*
British Exploration of Australasia (W.A.) is
near the rocks. This co. was formed in 1900, and gave
the present managing director (A. E. Morgans) £60,000
cash and more than half the issued shares for some gold,
tin, and copper interests on the Pilbarra field. Later on,
an asbestos show was added to the list,, but this was
afterwards sold for £5OOO cash and a half interest. The
accounts show that up to a few months ago the co. had
splashed up £62,000 in various ways, and had incurred a
debt,of £14,000. Latterly, creditors, with the bank at
their head, have been pressing the co., and at a meeting
just heldin London, aseheme which provides for a fresh
liability of ss. per share was put before shareholders.
No one, however, felt inclined to rush the proposal, and
ultimately it was decided to let it stand over for six
months and see how things looked then.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, is
sending up two rises above No. 7 main level. The first
starts 100 ft. from the boundary and just underneath the
rich shoot proved in No. 6 East Mexican and driven on
for 100 ft. The other is 160 ft. further east; so this level
will probably do things before long. The second rise will
be of great interest to the Mexican, which has had poor
luck in following the 810 ft. formation. Sinking and cross-
cutting are going on at the N.B.F. shaft. The hanging-
wall crosscut is in 75ft., with floors coming in from the
direction in which the reef is expected. The crosscut into
the footwall from No. 3 level, which is designed to pick
up a section of the Brilliant reef, is being driven on
contract. The share market evidently takes very little
interest in the approach of the Brilliant Block to a depth
of 1800 ft., and shares are hard to sell. Brilliant St.
George is down 1590 ft. from the surface and 585 ft. below
the Brilliant. New B. Freehold and the E. Mexican
dawdled for years while Mills’ United proved the
boundary, but the Blocks 00. was not inclined to wait for
the extension of No. 7 to the boundary, though the wait
might have proved good policy.
* * * *
The Charters Towers-owned Kulamadau at
Woodlark Island, Papua, has started crushing with its
new mill, which should give a better extraction of the
gold. This mine has been opened up at No. 4 level 262 ft.
south, but the big reef —6ft. wide—gets poor and
mullocky in places, and there is sometimes a heavy
soakage of water. The north No. 4 level has been ex-
tended 81ft., and prospects in this direction are payable.
A rise from No. 4, connecting with No. 3, opens a block
of ground for stoping. Manager Pemble, for many years
at the Ruby, is in charge, so shareholders can depend on
a “ go.” The Kulamadau paid dividends from the upper
levels, and now that the old Woodlark Island Prop, lease
has been absorbed, there is a better chance of testing the
levels below 400 ft.
* * * *
Queensland Exploration, Cloncurry (Q.), which
owns an old show on the outskirts of the town, known
for the last 40 years as the Great Australia, is paying
the expected penalty of forcing production before it
had developed any ore reserves to speak of. It an-
nounces that the stopes between the 250 ft. and 220 ft.
levels are worked out. The lode at 300 ft. for a
length of 105 ft. has proved mullocky and unpayable, but
tends to improve underfoot. The winze below 250ffc.
also shows better prospects than the level. This lode
junetioned with a big low-grade calcite formation, which
has been cut into for sft. at the 300 ft. level. An estimate
has been made that there are 32,000 tons of this calcite
material in the mine. Cloncurry is saying that more
capital is wanted to sink a new shaft, put up a new
smelting plant, and practically find a new mine below
the 300 ft. level. But this is a big order ; the first thing
to do is to prospect the show thoroughly at a greater
depth.
•* * * *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) has gradually changed color
till it looks like a concern that might do very well if it
weren’t so heavily capitalised. Though it has 374,262 £1
shares issued already, it has just made arrangements for
issuing another 125,000, and that will practically com-
plete the authorised capital of half a million. The first
25,000 have been subscribed by Robinson, Clark and Co.,
of London ; and the same crowd has the call of the other
100,000, also at par. The directors may, however,
require the firm to take up 15,000 in six months,
and 10,000 every succeeding month ; if the option
is not then exercised to that extent, it lapses.
The co. has £40,000 worth of new plant in view. When it
finishes the 200-ton furnace now going up, the present
100-tonner will be lengthened to bring it up to the same
capacity; and then the co. will be able to handle 12,000
tons a month. On top of that there is to be a 200-ton
concentrating mill so the total capacity of the works
will be 18,000 tons a month. With copper at £6O, 8., M.
and Co, reckon the 18,000 tons should give £lO,OOO profit.
Roughly, it was estimated on March 31 that there were
700,000 tons in reserve—enough, that is, for 2 years
9 months’ supplies, provided that the milling and the
smelting ores exist in the right proportions. On the
basis mentioned above, the reserves are worth, therefore,
£833,000, which must be divided among- the whole 500,000
shares, because apparently all the money raised is to go
into the plant necessary to produce this output. Beyond
that, of course, the mine has a prospective value ; also it
may add to its profits by ore-purchases. Shares, which
went down to a few shillings early in 1908, have moved
up sharply to 255.
South Glanmire and Monkland, Gympie (Q.),
has had a struggle to pay its way, and there was a pro-
posal some time since to hand over the mine to tributors.
Fortunately the Inglewood reef at the 721 ft. level has
lately shown signs of improvement, attributed to a
change of country. During last half-year 1956 tons were
crushed for £3009, which didn’t pay for mining and
development, but more recently 645 tons have been
crushed for £1196, which puts the co. £344 to the good.
A block of ground at the 990 ft. level, near the boundary
of No. 2 S. Gt. Eastern, is to be worked, so better returns
may be expected. Work is also being carried on at No. 1
reef, a small vein at the 721 ft. level, and on the Glasgow
reef at 1160 ft. An expensive scheme of development is
required to reawaken these old mines at the Monkland
end of the field. The success of the East Oriental and
Glanmire below 2000 ft. is a hint to others to try their
luck in that way. This mine is stoping large quantities of
crushing stuff. Last month’s return was worth £5Oll
from 1850 tons, but that included some specimen stone
sold to the Government for exhibition.
* * * *
O.K. mine (N.Q.) admits a loss of £2374 for the
half-year ; and there never was a time when it could
less afford to lose it. The last two smelting returns
showed 1168 tons ore for 69 tons blister copper and 2108
tons ore for 104 tons copper. Assuming the blister to
assay 99 per cent, copper, the recovery in the first case
was 5 - 85 per cent., and in the second 4'BB per cent. At
present prices it seems hardly possible for the mine to
make anything poorer than 7 or 8 per cent, ore pay ; and
in that case the loss must be considerable. There is, of
course, the gold and silver, small quantities of which are
now being paid for in some of the blister ; but if costs are
kept correctly it will be found that the expense of
recovering the metals leaves very little profit. Anyway,
the recovery of these metals doesn’t come within miles of
counterbalancing the drop in copper contents. The co.
must get money from somewhere, if only to open up more
ore bodies. And besides the trouble and expense of finding
them, it has still either to fight the law case further or
settle up at great expense on the verdict which so far has
gone right against it. To increase its troubles both
general manager Shepherd and mine manager Twynam
have resigned.
* * * *
Daylesford (Vic.) is beginning to look as perky
as Joe Oook now that, having swallowed Deakin, Protec-
tion, and universal military service, he sees office looming
ahead. The two Ajax mines are on the div. list, so half
the deadbeats that disappeared when “the boom”
cracked are getting ready to hustle out of the poorhouse
and beg for funds. As Daylesford is as patchy as the seat
of a schoolboy’s Saturday pants, there is good reason for
prospecting of the never-say-die order; though that does
not mean that every formation which has a bit of gold
near the surface carries a bonanza underneath. Nuggety
Ajax is being whipped as hard as a spinning top.
Because two small divs. have been got, a curtain-raiser
in the form of a block 500 ft. long is to be floated off. If
the ground is good enough, it ought to pay the co. to
work it. That, however, would mean eating up some of
the profits, and would check the addition of another
counter to the Stock Exchange list. Hence Ballarat
claquers vote for the new float when they ought to insist
on the co. opening up the ground for itself. Ballarat
knocked Daylesford out before, and it looks as if it will
do the same again.
* * * *
Up to now the slumberous Murray Government
of Victoria hasn’t done anything to turn the newly-
discovered Powlett seams into a State coal mine, and it
doesn’t appear to be anxious to do anything either. Last
session the Bass Valley to Woolamai railway was author-
ised ; but when the Powlett seams were proved, it was
reckoned that the route should be changed, and the line
should start from Lang Lang. This view has been urged on
Murray ; but, though one day he promised further con-
sideration, it was found that the previous day an Order-
in-Council had been passed authorising the construction
of the line by the route that will do the Powlett field least
good, and will push the proposed State coal mine further
back into the distance.
* * » •*
Mount Bischoff Extended (Tas.) lies next door
to Mount Bischoff, which fact constitutes its chief merit.
What hits the man who goes tin-mining in solid country
is the illusiveness of the ore. It cuts in and out like a
dog at a fair. At the Bischoff Extended No. 6 level has
been belted in 1100 ft. with no sign of the main lode.
That the level is 200 ft. below No. 5 level may
account for this miss. Still, an atmosphere of
healthy cheerfulness circulates in the directors’ room.
What helps them to their amiable frame of mind is the
nice vein, 3ft. wide, struck when half-way in with the
level. This and the fact that exploration in the old work-
ings has revealed a quantity of decent-grade stone, repre-
sent the results of development work for the half-year.
The grade of the ore treated pans out about 100 tons of
tin oxide from 5000 tons of ore, so that if there was any
quantity of crushing dirt to smash at, the co. wouldn’t
need to* worry. But it hasn’t got the quantity.
*'* * *
The past week’s boom has been in Tongkah
Harbor tin, a concern that was introduced to Australian
notice by The Bulletin when it was floated 2£ years ago
as the I XL. Dredging Co. It looks a big thing, and
may be a very big thing; but those who are inclined to
go to any price ought to realise that there are risks about
it; (1) The concession covers a harbor bottom in Siam.
It has been bored here and there, and dredges have
scooped up a bit in odd places, but no systematic pros-
pecting or sampling has been done. The tin may be all
over it, or it may be in streams or patches. The quantity
is unknown. The area is, however, large—nearly six
square miles. (2) The Siamese Government collects a
fairly heavy rovaity. When tin is worth £l2O, the Govern-
ment gathers ~in £l2 ; and so on up to £27 when tin is
worth £2OO. This takes some of the gilt off the ginger-
bread. (3) The co. has also to excavate a dock and
channel thereto, with a depth of not less than 20ft. at low'
water, and 180 ft. wide; the dock is to be not less than
1200 ft. x 850 ft. (4) The concession papers have been
carefully examined and look right; but the co. has to
deal with the Siamese Government, w-hich isn’t the least
corrupt and shifty in the world by any means.
* * * *
Mine Engineer Byron Moore, jun., is back in
Melbourne from Tongkah, where he reported on both
the Tongkah Harbor property and the Tongkah Com-
pound. As to the former, he says that “it is impossible
to give anything like a correct estimate of the value of
this concession, owing to the fact that only 60 bores have
been put down,” but he believes, on the data available,
that it will nrove “ the biggest bucket-dredging proposi-
tion in the world.” The Compound, owned by another
co., registered in Melbourne—the other is registered in
Hobart—is something less of a gamble, because, not
being under water, it is easier to test; and Byron Moore
put down 100 bores on- the 51 acres, and also bored
continguous blocks which have been conditionally
secured. His idea, based on his borings, is that the
Compound itself “can be worked out in less
than four years, yielding a profit of £170,000”; but
out of that £24,000 would have to be paid as compensa-
tion. This yield is apart from his estimate for the con-
tiguous blocks. They are tall figures ; and if they can be
realised, the syndicate has struck a patch. Kennedy,
the late manager of Tongkah, who fell ill and resigned,
has returned to Tasmania ; and his verbal reports tacked
on to the rest have resulted in two or three other Sydney
and Melbourne syndicates being formed to hurry men off
to the spot on the look-out for inore concessions.
* * * *
A month ago The Bulletin got some vague
information about a coal discovery made by McKay’s ex-
pedition in Papua ; now 7 this arrives from a very reliable
man who ought to know all about it: —“ When the ex-
pedition got up the Purari River a matter of nearly 200
miles, and after leaving the river a matter of about six
miles, the party came across large seams of coal running
parallel to each other. For several days they were among
these outcropping or exposed seams. In fact, they saw
so much coal that in the end they did not trouble to draw
one another’s attention to it. In one place they
came across a cliff fully 20ft. high which looked
as if the side of a steep hill had fallen away, leaving the
seam exposed. The creeks were also strewn with blocks
of coal, some of them heavier than a man could lift. It
was very hard, bright mineral, and very black, and
burned with very little smoke and ash. The matter was
kept as quiet as possible ; but a reward claim either has
been or is to be applied for by either McKay or Little.”
* * * *
Professor Gregory, formerly of Melbourne, is
now in the West, gathering material for, a book on “ Ore
Deposition,” which some firm of London publishers has
commissioned him to write.
* * * *
Assurance : No ; it won’t pay you to do any-
thing of the sort... S.O.T. : Don’t know the co.
* * » *


POSITIONS
LADIES
TELEPHONE!
ATTENDANTS
POSITIONS
SALARY £llO PER ANNUM
on completing- three years’ service
Commencing- Salary, £32 per annum,' with
annual increases.
Intending Candidates should ENROL AT
ONCE for special Individual Coaching at a
moderate fee to date of Examination.
COACHING PERSONALLY OR BY POST.
Write, call, or ’phone for particulars.
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
‘ What is Labor? ” asked the teacher.
Said the schoolgirl, smart and bright:
‘lt is labor to be coughing,
As some people do all night.”
‘ What is Capital ? ” he asked her
After a brief interval.
' WX Great p eppermint Cure," she answered.
Mother says that s capital.”*
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite
with mothers everywhere.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Cict ” : Almost after reading “ Janor’s ”
enthusiastic remarks concerning the joys of tree-
felling (B. 13/5/’O9), I was tempted to cry: “He
speaks sooth.” The eloquence of “Janor” carried
me away, so that I became oblivious to hard, chill
facts. Then I pondered on the days when I tree-
felled for a crust and its attendant aiCohol myself,
and a cynical smile disfigured me. No; there is
scant amusement in forest-devastating. Consider
the tree-struggler’s duties in their order. He must
(1) unearth his sapling, (2) erect a scaffold, often
15ft. high, against it, (3) “belly” the timber, not
“calf' or “scarf” it, as “Janor” has it, (4)
back ” it and get, (5) operate on the infernal
fauna it is propped up against, (6) scamper like
Hell from amidst the sprawling forest, (9) extract
splinters and such stray morsels of the bush col-
lected while scampering, (10) chop the head off
the blamed wood, (11) strip the epidermis off the
trunk, and (12) clear a track to the object in view.
Ihe game may be healthful, and I grant that,
barring’ accidents, it is ; but the man that raves
about the pleasingness of it deserves to be imme-
diately elected life-presidentof theOptimists’Club.
TOUGH FIGURING.
“ How fur' s't ter Wangonilla?”
“ Dunno; but me brother Bill kin do it
in two hours, and Bill’s a shade
worse’n evens fer the hundred.”
Adelaide Museum has gone into the live-
stock business. Three rats of the rare, house-
building kind, from Lake Eyre, started a thriving
factory in the Museum yard, and now the curator
has rats and houses in plenty for sale or barter.
The amoosin’ little cusses are real rats, not mar-
supials ; but they are not flesh-eaters. Give them
an armful of sticks at night, and in the morning
they will have chopped them into lengths and
disposed of them in and about the “house”—a
dome-shaped structure of several compartments.
Ihe biggest built by them in confinement so far is
2ft. high and 4ft. long. Sturt, when he described
them on the Darling in 1844 (thev used to be
common there before the pastoral" occupation),
found the internal lining made of soft grass ; but
in captivity they do their best with bark gnawed
into shreds. It is said that each family of rats
occupies a separate apartment in the house, but
as no scientific man has yet slept with them this
statement lacks confirmation.
Ex-prospector Ford writes ;
After “ Mahoofc’s” garbled yarn about the beginning of
the Coolgardie(W.A.)goldfield the facts of the case may be
of some interest to the old hands. It was about Christina
time in 1890 that George Withers, Jaeoletti and myself dis-
covered a gold-bearing reef at a place known as “The
Blaekfellow’s Grave.” This reef afterwards became the
well-known Jaeoletti mine. We sold it for £3OO to a man
named Salter, which, when you come to think of it, was
a sinister name for a gold-miner. “Jacky” and myself
looked after the reef while Salter went to Perth, and
Withers and a blackboy went out prospecting. When
Withers returned he brought with him a half-ounce
slug. That was the first gold found in the Cool-
gardie district. The following Christmas I was in Perth,
and met there Woodgate and Thornton. They told me
a T al Ty that was on gold, and suggested I
should follow it out. So Bayley, Stewart and self started,
but had our horses poisoned at Clinche’s station. We had
to make back to New Norcia, a Spanish mission, where we
got a fresh turnout, and started from Newcastle. We
langedover a lot of country and found gold in many
places, but it was not rich enough. Coming back to the
Ci oss through Golden Valley we got on to Hunt’s track,
ibis we followed till we cut the spoor of Withers, which
biought us to the well at Coolgardie. Next morning I
found an ounce bit before breakfast, and that meal was
due at 6 a.m. The reason Withers missed this gold was
that he didn’t know the art of specking. Didn’t
know what specking was, in fact. It was great on Fly
hlat, where we found about3oo ounces of alluvial. Camp-
ing' on this Tom Tiddler’s ground, we had a good time,
but in about a fortnight we were disgusted by the appear-
ance of Reeder and party. We thought our game was
up, but next morning we saw them bringing their horses
into camp. I walked over and begged them to stay, as
I'u , Co J u l d £ et good colors. But no, they would not ;
they had better things on. We slung our hats up when
they left. As, owing to the ground being too wet, we
had done no dry-blowing, they saw no signs of any work-
ing. After they had we waded in and specked that
flat nice and clean, and then hurried away to the Cross
for provisions.
While we were in Southern Cross I wrote a letter to a
mythical friend in Perth saying we had found no gold,
out were going to have another try. This letter 1
managed to lose in the street, and I have often wondered
what the fellow who picked it up thought of me. On our
"‘Yj° F , ly Flat vve a " ain niet Reeder and his party,
ana they developed a sudden interest in our destination,
till we explained that we were following them in the hope
of sharing their luck. They assured us the thing didn’t
exist where they had been, and we announced our inten-
tion of making for the Murchison. It was a case that
C wi.u fo s J neat yln B’ on both sides, and I think
we both did our parts very well indeed. Next day we
made fly flat. I spent the morning specking, while
Bayley went for the horses. He returned with a slug of
gold weighing about 250 z., whereupon temporary mad-
ness sensed us. He found it about 200yds. north of the
piesent Reward claim. Next day we found good gold on
the north of the big blow, and on the south end in the
afternoon ; but the north was the better. We picked up
a 1 the loose gold, but didn’t touch the reef, and pegged
out a prospecting-area 400yds. by 400yds. Two days later a
pai ty arrived, and asked to see the pegs. I showed them.
n™ r e mf| Va? a "# ay u ter Wle horses, and in the tent were
over bOOoz. of gold. As I streaked back to the tent I
passed over the reef and saw that it was untouched. Back
- the tent I waited till Bayley arrived, and his first
woids were a query as to whether I had been working on
the reef. I never dreamed they would start worldri- in-
-IS,cdJH<iUr peg8 ’ t u ey did ’ BO Bayley went across''and
they handed him back the stone they
wit d b W Vr e Y°uched the reef > and it was sold
with the cap still unbroken. While Bayley went in to
!nit 0 s r | t flvprf flnd tb SleP f fc ',7 the other fellows at nights,
but s„a.i ed on the reef all day, though I did no work. At
one f a3 v ?y n eP ° rted his find > and then fonnd so,lle-
one had let his horses out of the stable, and he was
stranded. Fortunately, he got a from a man
named Macpherson, and, after a hard journey, reached
th^nfoaVV 8 n et ’Y ? e ° ple were P our ing in, and among
them came Kelly the Jumper. He started jumping right
i'umnTnhe > K '7’ red ” lslde our area, and claimed the
Jhe n th . e ground that we had not reported
30 W Wh‘ n w PU ] ated time, which was, I think,
whnfut Wh?n i he ' yarden arrived he told us to peg out
ai a fiteT lr f d ’ and wo ",' al 'h«l Off the Reward claim
and a five-acie lease. Kelly s was the first case tried at
Coolgardie, and the Court blew him right out.
We sold Bay ley’s Reward to Sylvester Brown, keepim-
ourselves. And that was the begim
v i"rs In Kh'i 1 WaS re P orred d( ' ad about eight
,5 s at o - but that was a mistake. lam not dead
although I read my obituary in Table Talk. So the
fellows I loaned so much cash to will please note and
remit to me, care of this office.
“ Malacoota ” : I have been a Socialist all
my life, but there are some things in human
nature that make my faith hard to hold The
*
failures in Paraguay can be explained.
Any agricultural settlement that starts
with a steam hammer, a brass band
and no digging forks is hardly likely
to keep the co-operative spud sprout-
ing for very long. But when you find
two families on a lighthouse in an
island 12 miles off the coast not
‘ piaying speaks ” for years, it looks
as if brotherly love works out best
by wireless telegraphy. On the
Solitary Islands I found this
heavily-charged, unsocial atmos-
phere last time I was round that
f way. Down on Gabo (a lone
red-granite island which used
to be connected with the main-
land a few years ago, but is now
separated from it by a deep gut
half a mile wide) there are three
lighthouse families ; they are un-
derstood to preserve a prolonged
silence, broken only by the coarse
ones o f the penguins and the utterance of
necessary official orders. I expect it is prettv
much the same all round the coast. If the
archives of the Navigation Department were
available the reports ought to throw an interesting
light upon the effects produced by solitude on
brotherly love.
* * » *
“Don”: Be indigenous shade-trees, un-
doubtedly the currajong is the best. But a better
method of acquiring it than transplantation,
which “XXX ” touches on (B. 15/4/’O9) is to sow
it. The correct method is to scrape the earth into
the shape of a basin where you propose that the
tree shall grow, and drop in three or four seeds.
When the trees come up (which will be shortly
after sowing, if they are watered a couple of
times) it is well to pull up all but the strongest.
They grow quicker this way than if transplanted,
as they receive no check, and none of the very
fine roots are destroyed. I’ve got about 24 grow-
ing around my hut, and out of 16 that I trans-
planted only a couple withered. Those that I
grew from seed as described above soon caught un
to the transplanted ones, although put out a vear
later. I hey strike quicker if transplanted on a
rainy day, although, if you cover them over for
three or four days, you can strike them in the
hottest period of summer. If you get little ones
just before winter, a good plan is to knock the
bottom out of a pickle-bottle and stand over them
It keeps the frost off them, and the glass makes
them grow more quickly than if not covered
HOW THE DIFFICULTY AROSE.
MAN: “ What are you gazing at?”
BOY: “I wasn’t gazing at you.”
MAN: “ Well, you gave me a nasty look.”
BOY: “ You've got a nasty look, but I never gave
it yer."
“ Edyson ” : It was at Cockatoo Creek in
the roaring, rampageous ’Fifties. Dutch Harry
and a Cornishman named Scougil, who had been
through four or five fat rushes without getting
more than sufficient gold to support them miser-
ably, secured a claim on the deep end of the lead.
They were sinking fast, but with damp hopes,
and subsisting mainly on paddymelon and trapped
parrot. At length, one morning, when Scougil
was on top, the Cousin Jack heard a wild yell from
the depths, and yelled back. No further remarks
came from the earth’s dark, dank interior, and
Scougil started down the rope. He found his
mate lying on his face at the bottom of the shaft,
with a big nugget clutched in his right hand
and another in his left. Dutch Harry and
THE TRUTH.
PARSON: “ And what, my dear little boy, should
you always do before you have a meal?”
BOY (an Australian): “’Are a wash.”
Scougil had struck it rich, but according to
the best medical opinion available on Cockatoo
Creek the hapless Dutchman was permanently
deceased. He had succumbed to shock. There
was scant funeral ceremony then-a-days. Harry
was wrapped in a tent fly, a comfortable hole was
dug for him, and he was lowered in the presence
of half the diggers on the lead. A relapsed
Anglican parson read some biblical advice to the
dead, and the dirt began to rain on the late
lamented. But at this critical moment there
came a cry from the grave : “On top! On top,
there ! Why the —— and , aind’t you more
careful dot mullock with?” Dutch Harry lived
some 35 years thereafter to enjoy the proceeds of
his hole at Cockatoo.
“ Moorabinda ” : He crocodiles and simi-
lar vermin. A blackfellow called Pitdinganhtter,
a fine, athletic man, tall and powerfully made,
belonging to the Larrakiah tribe (near Port
Darwin, N.T.), was crossing, at low tide, a
small inlet in the harbor. He was wading
above his waist through the
water, when he was attacked
by a half-grown alligator—
quite a child crocodile, but old
enough to be a formidable
enemy to an unarmed man
anywhere. The native was
caught near the shoulders,
the flesh being torn clean
off his shoulder-blades, so
that the muscles and sinews
stood bare. Also his chest was
torn and mangled. The croc, even
caught his hands and bit at them
till the covering of his palms had
gone, faint with loss of blood, the
man with the incomprehensible name
fought his way to the shore and fell
exhausted. Some members of his tribe
who had witnessed the struggle rushed
into Port Darwin and told the one and only
doctor there. The doc. hurried to the scene
of the encounter and dressed the wounds of
the injured man—no easy task, as can be
imagined. He afterwards said that if the
disaster had happened to a white man he must
inevitably have died of shock to the nervous
system. In spite of his dreadful injuries,
the man with the unspeakable name re-
covered. He was very proud of his scars, and
was invariably brought in as part of the show
when the truth of the story seemed to be
doubted. But P. did not own his scars
for long. About three years after his
escape, he was acting in some small
capacity or other on board a schooner
on the Roper River. The craft was
moored at the entrance, ready for its
return journey. A watering party
had gone up the river in a large boat,
and P. was one of the party.
Work was over, and everything
was ready to return to the vessel
the next morning. It was a line,
clear, moonlight night, and the
men, including P., had turned
in, and were fast asleep, all lying
about the boat. In the early hours of
the morning they were roused by a
shriek of terror. Springing up, they
saw a confused mass floating on the river,
and to their horror found that P. was missing.
At the same moment the water was greatly agi-
tated, as if some struggle was going on below.
Suddenly the black appeared, apparently stand-
ing upright, his face blue and ghastly. In another
second he vanished, and was never seen again.
He had always slept in the boat, on this and
during other river trips, with one leg hanging over
the side ; being a tall man, he no doubt found
this the most comfortable way of lying in such a
cramped space. The crocodile must have come
alongside the boat, and grabbed for the leg, drag-
ging the aboriginal overboard. Next day a
thorough search was made for the body, but with-
out success. This time he of the distended cog-
nomen had gone for good.
« * * «
“ Milky White,” about the speed of bush
fires :
“Dandalup” (B. 15/4/’O9) may solemnly affirm, as-
severate, assert, aver, declare, reiterate, repeat, and
finally burst recapitulating his statement that the speed
of a fire in (Gippsland) green bush is half to three-
quarters the velocity of the impelling breeze, but that
won’t prove his statement. I started out by writing
up a fact of which I was an eye-witness, viz. : That
a fire in green virgin Gippsland forest, shoved by a
•strong north-easterly gale, travelled three miles in two
hours. “Dandy” called that fire a “blazing snail.” I
replied that the very fiercest fires in the dense green
Gippsland forests seldom travel at a greater rate than
two miles an hour, whereat “Dandalup” chases the fire
up into the tree-tops, which he conveniently makes
tinder-like for the occasion, skips over to Westralia for
some silver-grass, and then tells me that a hot wind has no
effect on the spread of a fire. I didn’t say it had ; but I
stated a fact, and I now state a few more to back it up.
I have had something to do with five bush-fires in Gipps-
land forest country this season. Each one started amid
raging hot northerly winds blowing at least 20 miles
an hour. No one of these fires travelled at one-tenth of
the wind’s velocity for the whole journey, and each
burnt itself out when the cool change came. Moreover,
the tops of most of the big trees in the path of the fires
showed green for two or three days after. “ Dandalup’s”
convenient tinder-like tops are a myth in this kind of
country. Any eucalyptus oil distiller will tell you
that the percentage of water in gum-leaves is highest
during the summer and autumn—when fires mostly rage
—and that the greatest yields of oil are obtained Tn
winter and early spring. It is then that the green.leaves
are most inflammable. As a matter of fact, it is so that
Nature helps the trees to withstand the frosts of the
winter and guards them against fire and heat in the sum-
mer and autumn. In conclusion, permit me to doubt
“Dandalup’s” 40-miles-an-hour flare. I’ve seen afire
travelling at something like 30 miles an hour on drought-
dry plains beyoud Booligal, and I’ve seen one doing per-
haps 20 miles in partially-cleared Gippsland country. Of
the latter an old bush friend said : “ It was like Hell roll-
ing down-hill at me.” “Dandalup” must have seen
Hell on wings.
* * * *
“ Mallacoota ” : A good deal has been
written about the tick curse. Until recently I
believed that the tick was an unmitigated evil. I
have lost two valuable dogs from tick fever, and I
saw the gruesomeness of ticks in the cattle dis-
tricts of Queensland some years ago. But as a
sort of set-off to the curse, it may be stated that
along the coastal districts of Southern N.S.W.
and Victoria the tick is proving extremely deadly
to the imported fox. I have been finding dead
foxes in the bush below Eden at intervals, and
lately came across a dog fox with the staggers and
pretty near his last gasp. In unsportsmanlike
habit, I accelerated his ultimate gasp with a
charge of No. 1 shot. An examination of deceased
revealed the fact that he was burrowed and
undermined by ticks. The dingo, on the other
hand, is immune.
THE GILGAL SWAG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A swag has been found on Gilgal Station (N.S.W.) but
no clue as to the identity of its owner has been discovered
beyond the fact that a man giving the name of William
‘, WaS ? een abollt the ®lgral hills, swagless,
and obviously muddled with drink. The police are mak-
eoncernin” the identity and the where-
abouts of the missing.man. —An Outback news item.
Now, I wonder is it Bill’s—
Do the lonely Gilgal Hills
Know aught about the mystery at all ?
Is it Jim’s or is it Jack’s
(Trudging swagless on the tracks
Where the grog-created devils chase and call?).
Are two shoulders free at last
Of the Burden of the Past?
Has repentance called another Ishmael in
> To the old-time sheltered life—
To his children and his wife—
Or the gay familiar haunts of youthful sin J
Were the billy and the dog
In the finder’s catalogue?
Were the locket, and the photo., and the curl?
And the letters (one or two,
With an answer overdue)?
And the verses that were written by a girl ?
Was no other token left ?
Was the Wheel of Life bereft
Of the dead weight of another hopeless drag ?
Gilgal Hills ! ’Tis plain to me
You are pledged to secrecy—
Aye, and sacred is the Story of the Swag.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


BROUGHT TO BAY
Are those enemies of civilisation, indigestion and
dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tubules are
employed; 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable everywhere.*
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite
with mothers everywhere.*
The “Fx&R”
Watches
are f-Plate Levers.
They have Brequet Hair Springs.
They have Compensated and Adjusted
Balances.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are specially made to STAND
HARD RIDING and knocking about,
and go with profound accuracy.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept
in order for two years (breakages ex-
cepted) without charge.
They are made in every style of case.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
M
%
/
fro&f
fv/£*
LO
fed
Gent’s Oxidised, Open Pace, .[-Plate “ Fx & R” Lever
Watch, 15 Jewels, 33/- With 7 Jewels, 28/-
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
‘ ‘ Jimmie Pannikin ”: The Darbalora home-
stead, near Gundagai and the Muddybidgee
(N.S.W.), has the most curious chimney I have
ever seen Outback or In back. Said chimney con-
tains a stained-glass window, visible from the
road. Now, why should there be a window in a
chimney ?
“ Vigilans,” from the Northern Terri-
tory :
Victoria Downs, recently purchased by the Australian
Estates, Ltd., has an area, of 12,000 square miles, depas-
turing (more or less) 90,000 cattle. There has never been
a bangtail muster. As many as 25,000 calves have been
branded in one year. The head station is situated on
Wickham Creek, 80 miles from the depdt. The whole
run is splendidly watered by running streams that come
down from the basalt country, and a large portion is
clothed with the best Australian grasses, comprising blue,
Mitchell, Flinders, and barley ; while vines, herbage and
shrubs are most fattening’. The timbers are excellent
and of great variety—Leichhardt pine, coolibah, blood-
wood, and various specimens of the eucalyptus family are
among the number. For this paradise the lessees pay Is.
per square mile, with a 45 years’ lease, and 25 years are
still to run. What a good' wicket the Buchanans, Kid-
mans, Emanuels and Forrests are on, to be sure ! During
the past live years these firms have coined money. The
stations are run at little expense, most of the work being’
done by the blackfellow and his lubra.
But the cattleman is now at the end of his tether.
Meat works are absolutely essential in the North, and,
once these are established, a tremendous impetus will be
given to the pastoral industry. Cattle can now be pur-
chased in Kimberley and the Territory for £2 per head,
and the small man has no market for his stock. I have
seen impoverished men travelling in the vicinity of Pine
Creek, the Katherine River, and Brock’s Creek, with
small mobs of cattle, without being able to find a pur-
chaser at any figure. The animals were just walking
bankruptcy. A glut in the cattle market is inevitable.
The North can never expand while stock have to be
driven hundreds of miles to the south. And the North of
Australia, from the Fitzroy River (W. A.) to the Gregory
(Q.) is the finest and best watered pasture land in Aus-
tralia. It is doubtful if there is a better tract of country
in the world. But it is all held in areas the size of a
German principality. If it were cut up for settlement,
meat works established, and railways built, the North
would carry millions of people. North Australia is essen-
tially a pastoral country. Second in importance is its
mineral wealth. When these are developed agriculture
will follow.
The following stations are in the vicinity of the Victoria
River: —Wave Hill, 60,000 cattle; Lissadel, 25,000;
Auvergne, 20,000 ; Keep River, 12,000 ; Ord River, 50,000;
Sturt Creek, 16,000 : Carlton Hills, 10,000; Texas, 15,000;
Argyle, 25,000; Roxwood, 10,000; Flora Vale, 13,000;
Gordon Downs, 10,000; Margaret River, 10,000; Machin,
5000; Newcastle Waters, 15,000;. Willeroo, 6000. The
Barclay Tableland, the finest sheep country in Australia,
with a regular rainfall of 20in., would carry 20,000,000
sheep, if cut up into 20,000-acre selections. Brunette
Downs, Alexandria, Rocklands, McArthur River, Lake
Nash, Austral Downs, and Heddingley are immense areas
of from 3000 to 15,000 square miles, only stocked on the
water frontages, while huge areas of magnificent pastoral
lands lie idle—a pure waste of country. The Roper River
Concession Syndicate has held 6000 square miles of
country for 20 years without stocking it, and has paid
only 6d. per square mile rental.
An illustration is to be seen in the Flinders (Queens-
land). That country, until a few years ago, was
in exactly the same condition as the tableland of the
Territory—held in immense areas and stockless. The
advent of the Oloncurry railway and the introduction of
bores has transformed" Jhis wilderness into an oasis,
There is no comparison between the Flinders and the
tableland of the Territory. On the tableland water is
tapped at 200 ft. North Australia is a great and wonder-
ful country, and no time should be lost in cutting it up
and peopling it. I have written much about this region.
It has a charm little thought of, and a delightful climate,
with absolutely no diseases amongst man or beast.
SMALLEST PONY ON EARTH.
CUSTOMER: “I say, what yer call that?”
BARMAID: “ It's a pony beer!”
CUSTOMER: “Lor’ love us, yorter sell it to the circus.”
“ Micky O’Maher ” : “ Out on the Castle-
reagh,” commended by The Bulletin for its
spacious-sounding title, may be worthy of that
title if it treats of this district as it was 15 years
or even 10 years ago ; but the Dubbo-Coonamble
railway and closer settlement have wrought a sad
change. I’m in favor of closer settlement in
principle, but don’t like it in practice. Along the
Castlereagli it consists mostly of S.A. and Vie.
cookies, and, in the words of Dooley, “They’re
good men an’ I despise thim.” The old time
squatters and cattle-duffers were far more pic-
turesque ; they were bad men, and ' I love them,
and it breaks my heart every election to have to
vote for their abolition. Worked for the first
small settler here. He was a fool. None of the
squatters would sell him meat, so he went with-
out. I felt quite ashamed to be working for such
a man when the boundary-riders on a neighboring
run told me they had mustered the paddock
adjoining us, and there wasn’t a single jumbuck
missing. Will never forget the look on the boss’s
face when a chap rode eight miles just to give us
word that the Johns were about, and we’d better
plant anv meat we had. Boss was a mild and
religious "youth of 40, straight from the parental
doorstep in one of the most respectable districts
THE CLUB OF LOVE.
GIN: “By cripes, him bin plenty fond on her, mine think it?"
in S.A., but he couldn’t very well go crook on a
man who had ridden so far out of pure friendli-
ness towards him. The stranger misunderstood
his embarrassment. “ Oh, it’s all right,” he said,
“we all do it.” “Th-thanks,” stammered the
boss, and his education had begun. When closer
settlement set in, many of the old bad eggs got
blocks, and they are now among the solidest and
most respectable men on the river. The turn of
a balloting machine decided which of then) should
become honest and which should not. ’Twas as
though Peter tossed a penny when an applicant
presented himself at Heaven’s gate. It is very
funny to see how quickly wealthy men who have
done time in their youth send for the police when
some poor beggar does unto them even as they
did unto others. All the romance that is left
“out on the Oastlereagh” is here and there a
rotting stockyard in dense scrub, where no honest
man could want a stockyard or want to drive
stock.
’Way back in the Gippsland
hills, the other day, I lit on the rummiest old
publican ever heard of outside humorous fiction ;
also the rummiest old pub. The latter was called
The Old Horse’s Rest, or something like that;
the middle of the sign was so faded that I can’t
swear to Old Horse. A very little of the out-
side of the pub was wood and iron ; the rest was
patched' with bark. The boss was all patches,
including a green shade over one eye. I asked
him for something to keep the cold out; but
spirits of any sort he had none. Even pep-
pery temperance beverages were off. A band of
timber-getters had been in and drunk him out of
everything but beer, he said. I remarked that
beer was quite good enough for me. He reached
down a measure, put a pinch or two of white
powder in it, and filled up from a barrel. ‘ ‘ What’s
the powder for?” I asked. “Soda!’’ the old
chap explained. “ Puts a head on it, yer knaw.’'
I was brave enough to taste the stuff, then I knew
why the splitters had left it. It was like'acid
mixed with aloes, but the soda had put a gallant
head on it. I’ve been trying to figure out since
what kind of head a liberal dose of it would put
on a man. One sip was sufficient to make trie
suggest suicide to the one-eyed derelict behind
the bar.
THE PATRIOTIC CATFISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A fishing party at the Hawkesbury, composed of Dr.
F. and Mrs. Forster, Miss Mary Douns, Messrs. Hubert
Isaacs, Harry Huntington, and W. Chas. Crawford, hit
upon a novel method of raising a Dreadnought subscrip-
tion. It was agreed that every time one of the party
pulled up a cattish he should pledge a penny to the fund.
The total penalties amounted to 55., representing 60
catfish.
When the Empire was in danger, and the Empire’s bank
was bust;
When Old England’s zeal was flagging, and her flag was
in the dust;
When our country’s Vast Resources were exhausted, and
we knew
That our Boundless Wealth had vanished, and our credit
vanished, too—
Then our Lord Almighty Mayor pulled the wrinkles from
his vest,
Struck an attitude h.eroic,'placed his hand upon his chest,
And he swore to save the Empire from its drear, impend-
ing fate
By presenting it a Dreadnought—so he handed round
the plate.
Then the Fat Men jubilated, and they yelled “ Hip, hip,
hooray ! ”
And advanced a hundred reasons why the other bloke
should pay.
And the “ Statesmen ” told the people that a gift so rare
and fine
Would make the Germans shiver as they watched upon
the Rhine. » . . . ■
So the plate went spinning gaily on its patriotic quest—
They took it to the school kids and the bobbies and the
rest,
And the limelight like a halo hung around the shining
pate
Of the Lord Almighty Mayor in his regal robes of State.
But his Lordship was disgusted when the plates earne
rolling in
Minus silver, gold and copper; and the Fat Men made
a din
As they cursed the working classes, who are arrogant
and rude,
And condemned their sordid meanness and disloyal
attitude.
But a party bent on pleasure down by Hangar’s rocky
isle — Ay
Casting bread upon the waters, simple fishes to beguile!
Had a plan to save the Empire, with their net and line
and hook,
By subscribing j ust a copper for each catfish that they took.
Though the flathead might be timid, and the oysters
might be shy,
And the bream unpatriotic, and the sehnapper loth to
die,
Be it known to all the ages and bo all the peoples that
The catfish down at Brooklyn saved the Empire “ on their
pat.”
For the patriotic catfish came in dozens to be caught 1
They rushed to save the Empire, as the loyal catfish
ought.
They swarmed in loyal legions and they hastened from
their lair
To subscribe their humble tribute to the Lord Almighty
Mayor.
And all the haughty potentates in foreign lands had fits,
And the Japanese and Germans broke their battlesnips
to bits —
They turned them into fishhooks, for the only chance,
they’ve got
Is to snare the blessed catfish ere his Lordship gets the
lot.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASLEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (exceut of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insuficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Gallia: You were answered in “Corre-
spondence” long ago. One good reason why your tales
were not returned is that there is no address on
them. One of them hasn’t even a name on it. The other
has a name, but it is scored out and we don’t know
whether it is yours or not... Veritas : You “ trust Tins
Bulletin will raise its voice ” in the matter. Yet you
only say that the iniquity happened “ beside a certain
river in North Queensland,” and you don’t give the name
of the people who did it, or the date of the paper which
exposed it, or the date of the paper which defended it,
or the name of the private sugar mill which gets the
cane—you don’t even send a newspaper clipping as evi-
dence. And we don’t know you from a crow Guy N. :
Alas, there is no merit in “that kind of stuff.”... .Aux
Armes: Aspirations of “ a young gent matrimonial ink-
lined ” quenched L.H., Jr.: No room for weird cricket
witticisms ... Bachelor : Noah was quite amused when he
first heard that story from his three sons ; but it palled
on him after he had heard it daily for some centuries,
and finally it killed the good old man M.E.: “ Full
Tide ” gone down rapidly 1.M.D.M.: No use for three
little poems from school. ...J.McL. : “ Confession ’’doesn’t
confess enough, and there is too much “Digression.”
. ..0.W.L.: Verses to EL Lawson destroyed accordingly—
Macnab : Our chief reason for not publishing your contra-
diction was that we knew it to be an absolute lie
B. : Schoolboy essays on autumn in the hills (or anywhere
else) not appreciated S.B.R. : Doggerel about Jackie’s
grave and the unskilful skater rejected with contumely.
Colonial: Frog leaps on the naked back of a youth
who is diving down a well for a lost pump —that’s the
thrilling plot of your rambling story F.McH. :
Difference between bridegroom and husband often de-
scribed before ; but never quite so badly. ..K.McM. :
“ Did Granny ” would perhaps enjoy .your pretty poem
about her and that lovely child. Break it to her gently.
J.D. : One worse than the other; but whether
“ L.S.D.” is one and “ Pessimistic” the other, or whether
they’re both one or both the other, and it is really both
that are worse than either, this paper cannot exactly
determine Kardella : Excellent sentiment struggling
vainly through wicked versification Journeyalist:
Australia pays seven Parliaments to make suggestions and
laws for land settlement., amongst other things. You
now rise to move the establishment of a “ Land Settle-
ment Suggestion Fund” for the encouragement of
“ workable” ideas? Why not let the politicians earn
their money, and, if they can’t, throw them out and
employ others in their place. Verses don’t thrill
Waggallalah: The exquisite humor of- 30 or 40
larrikins tin-kettling a young married couple does
not appeal to this paper Carmen: Sad decline
in public interest re drunken uncles who break
up billing couples ...Claude B.: You mustn’t make
fun of the Dear Old Mother Country and her bal-
loon made in Germany. Also, the world doesn’t yearn to
hear that you went to meet your girl P.W. : Hurried
jingle about Empire Day and Bells o’ Destiny held over for
repairs.. .The Carrier: “ Love’s Burial ” may come off (if
only for sanitary reasons). “Meeting of the Rivers”
indefinitely postponed Toolooa : Decline to start Sab-
batarian discussion, and nobody cares what the back-
blocks newspaper says about “our departing fellow-
townsman, etc.”... .Gfbbie : Your “gratuitous contribu-
tion,” being worth what you ask for it, will not “ enter in
Thf. Bulletin newspaper” A.H.G.N. : Star-boarder
naturally discourses about a comet, and his narrative
is brought to .ail end by the tail. What’s exciting
in that? Ajax: Poem that wants explanatory
footnotes not suited for this hasty generation...
E.C.M. : “ Exile’s Voices” is noble sentiment, but dull
verse Nomad : Neither article suits. You have no-
thing- new or strange to say... McK. : A bad case, but it
doesn’t scream loud enough for treatment in these
columns A.R.H. :To print your poem in its entirety
would amount to cruelty to subscribers... W.L.8.: If
you will have a frank statement—the poem is too dam-
phoolish for publication R. : “Kisses” may be
original, but Elias : Something more than a mere
statement of fact (or even fiction) is required to render
an “Abo.” par fit for insertion. For instance, it has to
be brightly written... Merid : “Ha!’’.has been spanked
severely and put to bed in the W.P.8.... D.L. : Item re
“ Lucky Durham ” quite hopeless, and no address on it
for return E.A.V. : “Mrs. Wicks” snuffed out
Ouka: We tnw that you live right out of the world, or
you would have got on to the quaint conceit of D. S.
Winded months ago Mollie Bawn: Sentiment
excellent but versification rocky B.M. : Just on the
border-line. May use one Firestick : You take a
precious long time to tell an uninteresting lie A.N. :
It takes such a long time happening to Simpson, and
then it is such a commonplace happening, that your
account is passed over in favor of more hurried literature.
Artist: To the general public an artist’s soul is
not worth a dump unless it expresses itself artistically—
and yours doesn’t Reader (Maoriland): (1) Quite re-
liable. (2) Capital should just about suffice, but you
would do well to work for wages awhile till you picked up
points about climate, and any other purely local informa-
tion .. Oeph: Plain, unadorned account of how a dog which
was drowned became an offence to the neighborhood
G.B. : (1) It is impossible to answer all pars. (2) The
mere fact that an item sent is true doesn’t ensure its
publication. Many of our greatest truths are as old as
villainy, and hence unacceptable... .Starfish : It is un-
likely that the advent of the taxi, had anything to do
with the uncomplaining silence of that Melbourne cab-
man on being I landed his legal bob. He was, doubtless,
dumb. . Quan : Herbert became Premier of Queensland
on December 10,1859 Beno: Dura the affairs of the
Simdeton civic fathers John: Domestic servant worry
not’exciting Martial: This paper declines to commit
itself to your views of the alleged Creation G.P. : In-
tentions honorable, but performance shocking Moon-
raker : Extract from unnamed wayback paper of no use to
u 3 C.M.L.: Trite and imperfectly rhymed obeservations
about flies on wheels not of any use to us Diomed :
Jolty poems about your old bike and about somebody’s
fat mother going to Adelaide thrown out with vehemence.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.W.C.: Don’t “devote your spare time to drawing
humorous pictures for the above-named paper,” unless
they are very different from the pencil effort enclosed....
C.J.C.: Paper is right enough (though Bristol-board is
better), and we don’t complain very bitterly about the
ink used. The drawings and the jokes are the matters
over which we don’t enthuse J.W.D.: Pictures poor,
and jests so poor as to be quite stone-broke A.H.W. :
Picture eloquently entitled “ Drunk asking for a Tray "
of no use to man or dog L.F. : Drawing rather rough.
Henry H.: Sketch of lady about to have her leg
amputated of no public interest.... .Celt: Two photos,
received. No name or address on back, no letter enclosed
_only something about “Celt.” Brad: Nothing in
either of them R.N.B. : Suggestion submitted to artist
and rejected.


in this Era of Good Feeling, is it too much to hope that Dill Macky and
Cardinal Horan will “fuse”?
Will Dill Macky kiss the
Pope’s fingers for toes) in
the near future?
The evening papers published a
large headline about “ The Governor-
Qeneral's Attitude” when Prime
Minister Fisher asked for a dissolu-
tion.
Was it anything like this ?
Is It too much to hope that the spectacle
of Cardinal Horan thumping a Wesleyan or
hard-shell Baptist pulpit will contribute to the
gaiety of nations?
URGENT
BUSINESS
To be pitiijlui.d'
DEFENCE
(LAND ANDREA)
The Capital Site
NAWgationTßiuJ
iron Bounties Bill'
R/IRrHERtf 7eßftiioi|y quES-
Tio m
Tn Qufyrm
LAUD Question
Sr«-
z>
/ A
I GItREFdL
vJ*y
Australia: “ It’s all Government defeats
and dissolutions. I wonder if tbey’ll
ever get on with the work I’m pay-
ing them to do? It will be too late
presently.”
A POLITICAL FOG.
Jo Cook: “ Where are we, Alf ?” Deakin : ««Damfino I ”
Cook: “ Righ t 1 Keep her so 1 ”
FUSION AND OTHER POLITICAL MATTERS.


RECENT FEDERAL DOINGS.
“Ay *F‘Oe*K'«i V$
'he v<\s joined "ty Jo^u^
&, Hoe* , Uioh.fU-C-,
(j fe^rlia > »«c*i"r Report) j?
S^ c ‘"?ev?
ike \
•ttbuairvy
for f«tr
Door •• —An Who m*y yott if I hnigV^
ni&K« So *>oU ? " < 0r I
•$«, f»To« =- " ow IW Sustk 'Em M»>
/ Cotnt. -fe helfr JvltK nsW oui J
"l-l'>ld,< > never been \
doubted -ftaT* \
-jyiff
s-rtmulA^e
(A^O
Do ‘try our’
foW^hed
J ftlusVMe*'! ■*'
Ihe\ I
Obbobit'ionX If
Co at 4 l
Conse*vf' -to \,
A*W policy
Which <naXei>
-ttje StaJ®*
'to "ftfe ! *
CCo^i^Ton
*
__ II 'tifetxfore "b« A
M>«- — '' Hera { yotAVc tfot* "to +&IC«. o/f- -f^ose
£c wc V' I
Kow remember . 1 |
Give y©w 'sis'to ha>s \*lH l'toT'ifstf^ll
intact* !
The Self
he l|> us j not "by
£1.000,000
► in
ticttte shi|?s to
Serve m
watery 'but' "by
<Pt£e*ns«iv*s !'
) ii'2i > l fieresj'Oi'tJ
i Britans l»*
; J)__ ro j~j
Bill oli £ifu£fiori


GAE LIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
is good to have your boots
brightly polished with a shine
like CHERRY BLOSSOM gives.
This wonderful polish is more
economical than any other.
You get more of it, and it goes
further.
For Black or Tan Boots at
3d. and 6d. —nearly all dealers
sell it. Write us if you cannot
get supplied.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The Arbitration J udge was clear ;
“ Well, gentlemen,” said he,
“There is one point, I am glad to hear,
On which both sides agree.”
“Why, yes,” said Curlywig the wise,
“We’re all agreed, I’m sure,
For coughs and colds to give the prize
To Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. *
Cures
Coughs
Angier’s Emulsion is unequalled for
coughs, bronchitis and all lung affec-
tions. By its soothing and healing
effects it stops the cough, allays inflam-
mation, improves the
breathing and makes
expectoration easy. At
the same time it keeps
the digestive organs
healthy and has a won-
derfully invigorating
influence upon the
general health. One
day’s trial will convince
you of its soothing,
cough - allaying, lung-
healing power. Forfree
sample send 4d . postage.
Of all Chemists, l/3, 2/9 & 4/6.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,2/9 &4/6. _ _
ANGIERS
Emulsion,
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.;
Jhe Angler Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St., Sydney
SSSaisr 5
PERSONAL
ITEMS
G. D. DELPRAT , OF BROKEN HILL.
Chain-wrecker Tom Mann was paid off by
the Barrier unions the other day, and his exit was
marked by a slice of magnificent posturing. He
gave a speech, and. presenting a tragic mien, com-
pared himself to the Redeemer, who had entered
triumphantly into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday,
only to be crucified a little later. He, too, had
entered his Jerusalem, he said, on a wave of
enthusiasm, and was now to be crucified (other-
wise, given the “sack”). Having mentioned that
they wanted to crucify him, he flung out his hands
that had never shattered a gyve worth mention-
ing, and cried : “ Well, there are my hands, let
them do it!” It was a beautiful piece of high-
class vaudeville, and was characteristic of a revo-
lutionist whose words are dynamite and iron, and
whose deeds are soaked blotting paper.
Bill Squires is at Murwillumbah, Tweed
River (N.S.W.), on the look-out for a dairy farm.
He has come to the conclusion that a man makes
easier and more certain money at cow-punching
than at punching Tommy Burns.
All hope that Premier Price of S.A. will
recover has now been abandoned. He has for
some months been resident in a cottage at Mount
Lofty, amid the .loveliest possible surroundings,
where the air is pure and invigorating, but no good
results have followed. He is suffering from con-
sumption—it may be that his early occupation as
a stonemason is largely responsible for this—
and nothing but his indomitable spirit keeps him
alive. All over the State the utmost sympathy is
felt for him, and politicians of every shade of
opinion, join in expressions of admiration for
his thoroughly honest and capable administration.
Just at present he is without doubt the most
popular man in S.A.
What a strange being is the Yankee evan-
gelist ! He is generally part bagman, part show-
man, part advertising expert, part brass trumpet.
He is mostly a heavy feeder, a ponderous humorist
with the girls, a retailer of quaint witticisms
with which he seasons his discourse, and a genius
at raking in money. He has the hard countenance
of the gentlemanly barkeeper or poker-player,
and is dressed like a tailor’s advertisementalso
his well-oiled hair does credit to his barber.
There is a hard, polished surface on him —the
Scripture simply rebounds from it or slides off it.
He hawks about with him a sort of quick-lunch
gospel, and his sign ought to read : “ The Slick
Road to Salvation ! Souls Saved while you
Wait ! Beats any Other Church by at least Ten
Seconds.’’ The U.S. evangelist is the character
of whom someone said : “His heaven is an
immense hotel with a loud vociferous God shouting
orders all day in the middle of the first floor.”
There is no one else on earth exactly like the
U.S. evangelist, and it is a glad thing for the earth
that there isn’t.
One of Abdul Hamid’s officials whom
Shefket Pasha’s men captured with much applause
was the chief eunuch, described as being also
“head bow-stringer and sack-thrower.” The
business of a bow-stringer was to tie a cord tightly
round the neck of the person that Abdul the
Damned disapproved of. A sack-thrower’s occupa-
tion was more complicated. It was his job to tie
up alive in a large heavily-weighted bag the person
that Abdul very much disapproved of, and drop
the whole contraption into the Bosphorus. The
victim might or might not be tortured in advance,
and he might be alone in the bag, or again he
might have cats for company. Cats get excited
when dropped into the water in a bag. There
must be many strange things at the bottom of the
Bosphorus. A legend goes that years ago some
100 or more young men were arrested on suspicion
of desiring Parliamentary Government. Torture
having failed to extract much information, they
were all dropped into theßosphorus onedark night.
As a measure of economy they weren’t bagged, but
each had heavy weights attached to his feet, and
a sort of bladder or float fastened to his shoulders
in order to keep him upright. They were sown in
regular, tidy rows like seed, or like soldiers at drill.
Abdul is said to have often felt consoled on cold,
wet nights by thinking of all these alleged enemies
standing in neat, orderly ranks at the bottom of
his harbor without even an umbrella. Yes,
Shefket’s men must have felt fairly good when
they gathered in the chief sack-thrower.
“ X.” writes :—-
An interesting picture in Will Dyson’s caricature show
in Melbourne is that of Victorian Premier John Murray,
the man who looks democratic and isn’t. Murray sits in
a characteristic position in a chair, with his big- legs
stretched and crossed, his hair as badly brushed as usual,
his black pipe in his mouth, and his lip sagging down
where the pipe presses it, and his hands sawing with a
penknife at the plug tobacco which he smokes. This is
the pictorial John Murray, the somewhat rough-and-
ready Friend of the People, the burly, good-hearted fellow
whose sympathies are all with Democracy. That pictorial
Murray, though he once existed, is dead and exists no
longed The Murray of to-day is a heavy, lethargic,
rather idle fellow, full of a droll sort of rough
vanity in his position, but with the energy (as
the Age said of him years ago) of “an imprisoned
frog in a bottle.” Murray is supposed to be a democratic
leader in a mixed Cabinet; but he is merely a bulky and
baldly-humorous figurehead, who makes floppy and inane
jokes to the deputations which wait upon him ; and he
has no more idea of strenuous progress than the afore-
said bloated frog. The Ministry is framing a land policy,
which has the pretended object of putting settlers on
Victoria’s sheep-walk estates. What has been heard of
that policy from Murray? Nothing ! Imagine the vitality
and the vim that Charles Kingston or Richard Seddon
would have shown in like circumstances. Murray has even
dared to say, as a jest, that the Conservative section of
the Cabinet is more Radical in the matter than he ;
which is probably true, for Murray’s Radicalism now con-
sists mainly in wearing loose clothes, forgetting to brush
his hair (or his coat), and smoking plug tobacco. Along
time ago Murray was an advocate of penal reform,, so
that the abominable prisons in Victoria might make at
least some pretence at reformatory effort, instead of being
mere places of vindictive and unintelligent punishment.
His energy in this work is now limited to an egotistical
interest in King, a negro pervert, out of whose half-insanity
Murrav is extracting advertisement. One of his colleagues,
Big Bill Baillieu, is about to leave his Department of
Public Works, and go to England on private business.
As a democratic Premier, Murray might have forbidden a
Minister to prefer his private work to his public task ; but
he becomes ponderously jocose on the matter, and says
that Big Bill is going to London to float the flying
machine which the negro pervert has invented. These
jokes are lamentably short of humor, but they are also
lamentable evidence of the paralysis which has fallen
upon the democratic instincts of the Murray of aforetime.
That is why Will Dyson’s picture inspires a feeling of
melancholy. It reminds you so insistently that Murray
is a Premier who looks democratic, and isn’t.
Some birthdays for June : —Panton, ex-
P.M. (Vic.), 78 on the 2nd ; Dr. Leeper (Vic.)
61, and ex-Labor leader Archibald (S.A.) 59 on
the 3rd; H. C. Dangar (N.S.W.) 79, ex-Premier
Propsting (“Broken Prop,” of Tasmania) 48, and
General Wolseley 76 on the 4th ; A. A. Dangar
(N.S.W.) 69, and Dill Macky (N.S.W.) 60 on the
Bth ; Bishop White (of Carpentaria) 50 on the
9th • Burgoyne (leader S.A. Country party) 82 on
the 10th ; Alexander Peacock (Vic.) 48 and Mrs.
Humphrey Ward 58 on the 11th ; Federal Statis-
tician Knibbs 51 on the 13th ; Louis Becke 52 on
the 17th ; Poet Essex Evans (Queensland) 46, H.
C. Rason (ex-Premier of W.A.) 50, and F. Tate
(Vic.) 46 on the 18th ; Crouch, M.H.R. (Vic.), 40
on the 19th; Explorer David Lindsay (S.A.) 53,
and Prof. Anderson Stuart (N.S.W.) 53 on the
20th ; Chief Justice Griffith 64 on the 21st; Chaffev
Baker (S.A.) 67 on the 22nd; Chief Sec. Bice
(S.A.) 56 on the 24th; Dr. Liddell, M.H.R.
(N.S.W.), 47 on the 26th ; Bruce Smith (of N.S.W.
and Asia) 58 on the 28th.
A DOUBLE.
Sculptor Nelson Illingworth; also actor James Atholwood got up as Nelson Illingworth.
(Query: Which is Nelson Illingworth?)
Photo.—Rembrandt Studio, Wellington (M.L.).
Wellington (ALL.) Savage Club got the
shock of its life the other night. Coming out
after a function, at which there had been whisky
and good fellowship, it found Nelson Illingworth,
the Sydney sculptor—he of the weird cloak and
the trackless ocean of hair—sitting by himself in
the smoking-room. He was beside himself —that
is to say, he was sitting alongside himself. There
were two of him, and the Club thought it had got
them again—-both of them. Then it transpired
that James Athol wood, the actor, had got himself
up as a duplicate Illingworth, and the club
breathed again. But the joke took a tragic turn,
for Illingworth and Atholwood were so much
alike that they got mixed themselves, and are un-
certain of their identity even to this day. And
neither of them can sleep for wondering whether
he is really himself or the other fellow.
Three Australians, or men .working in
Australia, were nominated for the Archbishopric
of Sydney ; and not one of them was left in
after the second vote of the synod.
Nine-tenths of those who had votes to
give away didn’t have even the most cob-
webby knowledge about any of the Eng-
lish candidates, but they weren’t Austra-
lians, and that was enough to go on
with. The one solid fact about the Aus-
tralian Anglican Church is its hatred and
contempt for the country that is fool
enough to pay for its bread and butter;
and Australia naturally reciprocates by
regarding the Anglican Church as a cad
and a tuft-hunter, and something beneath
contempt. Finally J. C. Wright, an arch-
deacon of Manchester, was chosen ; and
though he may be the best Englishman
offering, he anyhow hasn’t hit England
hard enough in the eye to even get his
name into “Who’s Who.” The question
now is whether the chosen man will come.
But £2250 a year and a house and taxes
paid will probably turn the scale. For,
though it sounds fairly magnificent, there
is more work than pay about an arch-
deacon’s billet. In fact, archdeaconing
isn’t exactly a billet; it’s an extra handed
on to some local rector or vicar, and worth
only £2OO a year so far as Manchester is
concerned.
Charlie Nuttall, the popular young
Melbourne artist, of the black-and-white
persuasion, who has been grafting in Noo
York of late, years, writes to contradict
the allegation that he is making 15,000
dollars a year with his industrious right
hand. He pleads guilty to 5000 dollars
(£1000) a year, and hopes to improve on
that figure. But 15,000! No artist in
N.Y., with the exception, perhaps, of
Dana Gibson, is earning so much. The
ordinary prices paid there are very little
higher than he got in Australia. But the volume
of work that offers is greater, and that’s how the
income comes about.
A general shifting of Collectors of Customs
in the Commonwealth may occur this year under
the old-age regulation. J. Baxter, of N.S.W.,
will be 65 in July. A. W. Smart, of Victoria, will
soon be 60. W. H. Irving, of Queensland, will'be
64 on August 4. T. N. Stephens, of South Aus-
tralia, will be 60 on June 7. C. T. Mason, of
Westralia, was 62 on May 5 ; and J. A. Barnard,
of Tasmania, is in his 63rd year.
“D.” rises with one hand pressed in fond
memory on his stomach and a pen in the other
hand, and writes :
High-livers the world over will be puzzled and shocked
to know that a receiving order in bankruptcy
was made. last month against V. Benoist, caterer,
of Piccadilly, London (England). For well over
a quarter of a century the name of Benoist has
stood on a level with that of Buzzard, peerless con-
fectioner, Peal, Poole, Worth and other classics in their
trade line. Rarely did a coach go fo Epsom, Ascot or
Lingfield a decade ago without a hamper marked Benoist
in large, black letterings stowed away in the boot. In
the summer the trains out of London bound to the
Thames-side towns—Taplow, Maidenhead, Pangbourne,
Gorin'-- and the like— always on any reasonably fine
day heavily freighted with the famous Frenchman’s
wares. He would make up a lunch, costing from a
sovereign to a couple of hundred pounds, at the shortest
notice, and whatever he sent out was the best procurable
in the kingdom. Benoist had the reputation, as long as
the writer remembers London, of being worth some
hundreds of thousands sterling. How one with the
business he had ever came to face the dreary creditor-
meeting ceremony of the Insolvency Court is a deep
mystery. It is noteworthy, by the wav, that
in London the purveyor of ultra-good food
doesn’t do particularly well for himself. Edouard,
perhaps the greatest chef of his day, recently took
Willis’ Rooms, which place has for years been the
“smartest” little restaurant in the United Kingdom.
His regular patrons included such sound judges of edibles
as ex-Prime Minister Balfour, Henry Chaplin, M.P.—a
famous fancier of Gallic cooking—and most of the male
royalties about town. Everyone with a five-pound note
to snend on a dinner for two patronised Edouard for a
term, and yet his venture failed utterly. And meanwhile
the Lyons family made more money than any half-dozen
men could comfortably spend, supplying the London
clerk and his young lady with cold, pallid scones and
weak tea.
Kaiser Wilhelm 11. would seem to have
that total absence of humor which is suggested by
the type of moustache he wears. Said he to a
Berlin pressman (14/4/’O9) after witnessing “An
Englishman’s Home ” :
As far as I am acquainted with English family life, it
in no way corresponds with that depicted in the play.
About the humblest shanty that shelters William
when he visits England is that appertaining to
the Earl of Lonsdale, and for the balance of his
stay he is mostly at Buckingham Palace or Wind-
sor Castle. The Browns’ home-life represents
that of the huge class which hangs out in Balharn,
Kensal Rise, Clapham, and such-like suburbs,
which wouldn’t know an Emperor by sight if they
trod on one in a ’bus. For the Kaiser to talk at
large about the “ family life ’’ that is pictured in
“An Englishman’s Home” is equivalent in the
matter of absurdity to the habit the globe-trotting
Englishman has of handing information to resi-
dent Australians concerning the country they have
been born and reared in.
ZIG-ZAG.
Joe Cook’s climb to half office.
Sydney Evening News, in announcing
the death of Mr . Alexander Ryrie, M.L.C.,
, ,
stated that the deceased gentleman was a son
of Commissary-General Ryrie, who took part
j n the Crimea, under the Duke of Welling-
tQn >: p ro bably only a regard for the Scripture
prevented the paper saying that he also served
under Pontius Pilate.
THE WITNESS IN RUSTY BLACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mfxbournf,, Thursday.—At a meeting of the com-
mittee appointed by the Conference of Trades to take
evidence of sweating in various industries, some bad
cases of sweating were disclosed as to wages and con-
ditions. In the undertaking' trade one witness said he
had to work 70 hours a week for a wage of 355. He
worked 305 days in the year, and was not paid overtime.
Nothing was allowed for frock coats or heiitoppers. He
had to buy them secondhand. — News Item.
1 am the slave of Death, my top-hat’s rusty and old,
I drive the shinin’ hearse and pack them under the mould;
Coffins, white flowers and plumes—cryin’ women and men,
Both heavy and light,
I bury ’em right,
For ever and ever, amen !
(Amen !)
For ever and ever, amen !
I am the grave’s good pal (for thirty-five bob a week !)—-
I like my little joke, but I look ’ply and meek ;
Seventy hours I, work ; I carry and drive ’em slow ;
It’s a ’orrid waste,
But you can’t make ’aste
When along with the dead you go,
(Dead Slow !)
Oh ! he rousts if I don’t drive slow 1
Standin’ before the front door, waitin’ t’ get the sign
T’ stow' ver ’ats away and edge inside in a line ;
Screwin’ the coffin-lid tight, an’ shufflin’ down the stairs !
Oh ! Some of the mob
They cry and they sob
But th’ most of them ’ardly cares !
(Downstairs
They are waitin’ in gloomy pairs.)
Sixpence an hour— and the sun never sets on me job !
Every Sunday I drive while mourners cry and sob,
Packin’ them out of sight, and pilin’ the wreaths around,
Oh ! I feels inclined
T’ say “ Don’t you mind !
You’ll soon all be under the ground !
(I’ve found
That most people goes underground ! ”)
I ’ate the sight o’ wreaths and the floral tributes that
People waste money on. If I ’ad a decent ’at
I wouldn’t feel so wild—also, if me coat was new,
I wouldn’t chuck blooms
On the fam’ly tombs
With the words that I sometimes do
(“ Blow you !
They don’t mind splashin’ cash, on you ! ”)
Callous am I ! Suppose that you’ ad this blighted job—
Seventy bloomin’ hours,,an’ thirty-five flamin’ bob ;
Everlastin’ coffins an’ mournin’ women an’ men !
No, there ain’t much joy
In thisgame, my boy ;
But it’s got to be done, amen !
(Amen !)
We must bury you cheap, amen !
X.S.W.
THE SEXTOM.


■
i m
i
i
X
®t
X*
m
1
4%
m
tm
*
peßgfn*
■r.V'r ;?
m
1:1
££
I * 'C
1
IP
f
P 8
Vf»
m
'SP^nSS
~
E«4sS
t “
%
M
3©
ft
gfiP
\
fe
SSKSK
S*B»Sfi3£vJ
v
V
3584
-
m
"%i
1
$
.
a*"
V >
«,
Actual
Size
.
*6
Champion Every Time!
99
The Champion Tobacco Man presenting' his latest novelty— <
one-ounce tin of Champion Virginia Gold Leaf Flake Cut


The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite
with mothers everywhere.*
Walter Bradley & Co.
284- George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining Boom Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered (roods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
KIDNEY SECRETIONS.
Happiness is harmony; but how can there be
mental happiness when the body is racked by
discord, when the organs refuse to perform their
allotted tasks? The liver fails to work, and
biliousness ensues. The kidneys rebel, and the
bladder secretions are defective. The stomach is
deranged, and dyspejisia reigns. ERANZ JOSEF
Natural Aperient Water is Nature’s harmoniser.
A dose before breakfast brings order out of chaos.
A continued use will cure the stomach, awaken
the liver and restore the kidneys to a healthy con-
dition. Health will replace disease, and your
days will be strangers to pain.*
There was a young lady of Nhill,
Who exclaimed, *• Why, there isn’t a pill
That comes near Laxo-Tonie
For anything chronic.
Since I’ve used them I’ve never been ill.”
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, JOJd. and Is. 6d.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a 44 peaceful ” Japanese colonisation of. the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
THE WAY TO
CURE SCIATICA
Is to Cure the Cause of
the Trouble.
This Man Suffered Agony for
Years, and Gave up Hope of
Relief, but was Cured by
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
There’s a reason why Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
have cured so many cases of sciatica. Through
the blood they supply the nerves with the nour-
ishment they lack, when sciatica and neuralgia
and such nerve pains exist. When the nerves are
all right, when they have tone there will not
}?e sciatica. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are to make
the nerves right; they do it through the blood.
The highest medical authorities have observed
that neuralgia generally attacks anaemic people,
and disappears when their blood supply is re-
newed. The pain that is called neuralgia when it
is in the face, is known as sciatica when in the
nerves of the hip and legs. In sciatica as much
rest as possible will help the pills to cure.
There’s the case of. a Sydney man, Mr. A.
MoNab, of 66 Bathurst Street, who suffered agony
with sciatica until he cured himself with Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. To an interviewer he
stcitsd *
“I suffered with sciatica for years, being a
martyr to the most fearful agony. Often I was
laid up for weeks at a time, and my sufferings
were almost beyond description. The night
time was the worst. All night I laid in pain, the
sharp shooting aching running right down my
leg. It was only on the one side. Sometimes
when walking the shooting pains caught me, and
then I had to hang on to a fence to stop from
falling. Several times I was in bed for three
weeks at a time, and I have spent pounds and
pounds on doctors and medicines. Some of them
gave me a little relief, but that’s all. I got very
thin and run down, and grew very weak. When
the pains came on it was like lightning shooting
through me. When I had taken so many things
without success I began to give up hope of ever
getting better, but reading one day that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills cured sciatica, I made up my
mind to try them as a last resource. After the
first week or two I began to notice an improve-
ment, and as I kept on I kept getting better. I
kept on till I was thoroughly cured. Por nearly
a year now I have not felt the slighest twinge of
sciatica. I don’t dread the winters now like I
used to.” .
When you want Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, don t
be put off with anything else said to be just as
good. If you have trouble in getting them, send
direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia Ltd., Sydney, who will send them by
return, post free, 2s. 9d. for one box, six boxes
15s. 3d.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
X
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bail Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS (opp. Hunter St)
Also at Melbourne.
SYDNEY.
POLTICAL
POINTS
“ I will have that man out of the House
yet,” said Oom Bill Lyne, pointing to Ice-
berg Irvine, after the defeat of the Fisher
Government. And when one considers Lyne’s
dogged persistence and Irvine’s shaky little
majority of 377, it seems more than probable.
Other men who have probably signed their death
warrants over the Fusion are John Thomson,
Wilks, Liddell, Agai* Wynne, Jabez Coon, Quick
and Hedges.
That unsatisfactory Laborist, Senator
Croft, of Westralia, isn’t going to stand again.
The most prominent candidate for the party’s
nomination in his place is “Mulga” Taylor,
M.L.A. for Mount Margaret, a good and able
Democrat with rheumatism in both feet, a reli-
able Protectionist, an ardent Federalist, and a
vigorous speaker when he can get something to
hold on to, his feet being apt to give out as afore-
mentioned.
“Adelaide”: Sensible South Australia
(that phrase might well be set up in stereotype—
it is wanted so often) has had not the ghost of a
Dreadnought frenzy. The moment it showed its
head the Register j umped on it, and when it was
down, the Critic sat on it until dawn. And as
those two papers come the nearest to being Con-
servative and “Imperialistic” that progressive
S.A. can show, there was no room for any frenzy
at all. The Critic declares that itself and the
Register are the only two papers in Australia
that went anti-Dreadnought, but, happily, that is
a monstrous exaggeration. The anti-Dreadnought
papers can be counted by dozens.
THEIR JOB.
It was contended that as the State was face to face
with the greatest crisis in its history owing to Federal
attempts to encroach on State rights, it was most unde-
sirable that the State Assembly should be “weakened”
by reduction of members.
M EMBERS: “ But that Federal Parliament bloke
might annoy you, and you won't have us to
protect you; and, besides, what will we do?”
The Parliamentary expeditions sent out
by the S.A. Government in the Western District
and between the inter-State railway line and the
river Murray, have discovered about 3,500,000
acres of good agricultural country which can
easily be made accessible. Improved methods
of cultivation and the use of superphosphates
have made it possible to raise wheat with a com-
paratively small rainfall, and the Government
hopes to settle 3000 farmers on the new areas.
They have an abounding faith in the small settle-
ment idea in Oroweater-land.
When the Labor party meets,
it’s a “caucus”; when any other
party meets, it’s just a meeting.
On the day when it was announced
that Deakin and Cook were going
to mix their milk and vinegar, the
S. M. Herald headed the report
of the Labor men’s conference
“ Caucus Meeting” ; other parties
had met, but their meetings weren’t
caucuses, because the members
needn’t be bound by the decision
of the majority—they could go
out if they wanted to. It seemed
quite a clear distinction until the
same old Herald gave the show
away in its leader :
Members of the sections led by Mr.
Cook and Mr. Deakin have been sun-
dered so long by fiscal and personal
barriers that it would not be surprising
if they did not find it easy at once to co-
operate. But the agreement of the
leaders was, after all, crucial. The
rank and file could only fail to endorse
the platform laid down at their peril,
and it was fairly certain that fusion
would come, even if delayed till the last
moment.
In other words, the members of
the Cook and Deakin sections are
quite free agents and can do as
they please, only if they do as they
please they know what to expect;
wherefore it “was fairly certain”
that, even if they wanted to do as
they pleased, they wouldn’t dare to
do it. Still there is a difference
between a Labor caucus and the
other caucuses. The majority in
the Labor caucus settles its policy ;
in Cook’s caucus the rank and file
have to swallow what Cook has
swallowed—or refuse, as the Herald puts it, “ at
their peril.”
In 1903 Tasmania threw out Premier Neil
Lewis with so notable a thud that he and his
Ministers hadn’t even a seat among them after the
election. It was a tremendous obliteration—and
then Broken Prop became Premier, and Tasmania
wondered if it had really gained anything after
all. The Broken Prop Ministry died from inani-
tion, and its leader fused, after the manner of
Deakin and Peacock and Waddell; and served
under Jaeky Evans. Now the party threatens to
depose Evans, on the ground that his incapacity
led to the great uprising of Labor at the late elec-
tion, and Neil Lewis seems likely to come into
his kingdom again. Six years ago he had hardly
a supporter save his own dog, but the glamor of
Broken Prop has faded since then.
“ Randwicker ” writes :
A queer, not to say horrible, logician is the average
advocate of the Hired Defence policy. Three months ago
I went to a Willy Kelly political meeting and heard that
diverting- youth argue that it was “ insane ” for Australia
to think of building a “ mushroom,” “ mosquito,” or other
fleet, since Britain was “ mistress of the seas” and “in-
vincible.” The line pursued was as follows: Britain is
supreme and unapproachable on the seas ; Australia is
Britain’s “ beloved child,” wherefore it is waste of good
money and energy for Australia to do anything in
the way of sea defence. Accordingly, the speaker
solemnly warned the Government (which wasn’t there) to
drop its mad determination to defend Australia. Six
weeks ago I passed a schoolhouse building near my home,
and lo ! a placard showed me that William was within,
and at it again. I entered. He was still hammering
away at the old theme. But there was a change. This
time he argued that Britain was not invincible on the seas
or elsewhere, but “in dire peril and distress.” It ap-
peared that Doom threatened immediately—if not sooner.
Germany was capable on its little own, he now held, of
blowing the unhappy old Mother Land to Yass. There-
fore, reasoned Willy, it was “ insane ” for Australia to
think of building a “mushroom,” “mosquito” or other
fleet, and he adjured Fisher (who again wasn’t present) to
drop his defence scheme at once. With a choking cry for
air I here rose, fell over a weeping child, and broke for
the street, nor have I heard Willy reason on the Defence
question since.
When the N.S.W. .Parliament passed the
Shires Act, and thereby spread Local
Government over practically all the State,
it was supposed that the departmental
trotter or road and bridge member would
be killed dead. For not only does the
Act profess to render most of the trotter’s
proceedings useless, but it furnishes a
direct means of communication between
the Shires and the Minister, the local
trotter being left out in the mud. Yet
already country newspapers are pub-
lishing notices to the effect that
“ Mr. Sitonthemat, M.L. A., has been
informed that the application of
the Doodlembuck Shire Council,”
etc., or that “the Doodlembuck
Shire Council has asked Mr. Lobby-
hanger, M.L.A.,” etc. The Dwel-
ler on the Mat is a hard person to kill.
Hardly had the vote gone against Prime
Minister Fisher than the State insects began to
talk of another “Premiers’ Conference.” The
idea now is to get the Braddon Blot extended for
another five years, and for the States to make
some indefinite contribution towards the payment
of old-age pensions. With Bigjohn Forrest as
Treasurer, and the knowledge that defeat means
the return of a Labor Government, the insects
may be depended on to rush some sort of an anti-
Federal grab through, if possible.
Anti-Socialism is on the fence again !
Doncaster (Yic.) is part of the electorate which
has for years returned that stodgy Tory, Farmer
Cameron, to the Assembly, and it is anti-
Socialistic to the backbone. But Private Enter-
prise has been passing off on it such vilely
adulterated fruit-spraying mixtures—one man lost
three years’ produce of 600 trees through using
one of the frauds—that the fruit-growers have
asked Minister Graham to let the Agricultural
Department prepare a mixture and distribute it
at cost price through the agency of the munici-
palities. Doubtless the idea is very good and
proper; yet, if the Socialistic citizens of Rich-
mond or Collingwood, who regularly return
Labor members, assured a Minister that they
were being defrauded in the quality of the boots
they buy from Private Enterprise, and asked him
to supply them with State-made boots at cost
price, Doncaster would fall down dead from
shock, and Anti-Sosh in general would scream
furiously.
THE ASS IN THE LIONS SKIN.
Lord Roberts, Y.C., delivered a striking speech, in the
course of which he warned the Government and the
country that danger was coming nearer every day."
“Great numbers alone, if untrained, are a weakness,"
the veteran soldier declared. “It troubles the wolf little
how many are the sheep. It will be war and not a sham,
but our army is a sham.” — Cable.
PATRIOTIC PERSON: “ Well, who’s frightened of
wolves, anyway? I’ll just roar like a lion,
and that will keep ’em off.”
N.S.W. dashed a £3,000,000 loan at 3^
per cent, on the London market last week, asking
£9B 10s. for every £lOO security, and the public
offered £BOO,OOO instead of £3,000,000. Of course
the underwriters must make up the shortage ;
but this sort of luck seems to fall on the N.S.W.
loan far too often these days. N.S.W. is the
hardest borrowing state in the Commonwealth,
and a tired feeling appears to supervene now
every time it rushes with its IO U into the busy
haunts of finance.
Catts, M.H.R., propounded a sad dilemma
to Joe Cook in the House of Representatives, on
the day when Alfred Deakin died, and had his
epitaph spoken byLyne and Hughes. Catts read
from the speeches of Joe Cook in 1891, when Joe
was a Labor member and a Republican, who said
that land-taxation was merely “the taxation of
legalised theft.” Catts gazed on Joe, with shiny
head, long coat, and glossy hat, and asked what
would be the opinion of each party if Joe Cook of
1909 could be introduced to Joe Cook of 1891?
“What would Joseph think of his old seif?”
Catts demanded. But it is more important to
know what the former self would think of J oe.
The democrat of 1891 would probably seek some
deep waterhole, and thus escape from the selfish
Tory-bought fate which he beheld awaiting him.
THREE MEALS.
The capitalist really only gets his three meals a day.
He is trustee of the rest for the people.— Recent Cockney
Globetrotter.
UNEMPLOYED STRANGER (in tones of gentle sar-
casm): “ Wot knocks me is ’ow you manage
to keep so fat on it! ”
Nowadays a little experience of Socialism
is so satisfactory that even the man on the land
hangs to it with both hands. Having set the
Doncaster (Vic.) cool stores on a sound basis, the
Murray Government lately proposed to hand the
concern over to a co-operative body of local
orchardists, the only charge being interest on the
Government's outlay at the rate of 4 per cent.
But Gales Clodhopper, the farmer, and Mrs.
Sarah Clodleaper, his wife, replied that the con-
cern seemed to be in good hands as it was, and it
had better stay so. Which was only to be ex-
pected. The State, even at its worst, generally
seems to manage things a lot better than Private
Enterprise does.
“ Northerner,” from near the roof of the
map :
lie “ Larrakeyah’s ” criticism (B. IS/5/’O9) of G. J.
Bruce’s letter about Port Darwin, I opine “ Larrakeyah ”
is a Rich Landlord, or something of that sort. He is
certainly right in his statement that the banks, railway,
post office, etc., at Port Darwin are run by white men,
but those affluent white men are firm believers in cheap
colored labor. It is also true that in Government tenders
there is a clause to the effect: “ White labor when
possible shall be employed.” But the white employers of
labor first offer to white men a wage they know will not
be accepted, and then fall back on their colored friends,
their excuse being that “those darned fellows (i.e.,
white men) won’t take work when it is offered them.” I
have been five years in the Territory and am of opinion
that it would be a very good place for the working man
if there were not so many colored aliens. Government
officials and private employers complain that white men
won’t go to the Territory. That is not true. They go
in large numbers, mostly from North Queensland.
The point is that they don’t stop, and the reason
for their discontent is the plenteousness of
Yet Loong and Co. I was in Port Darwin in December,
1906, and saw several Government officials’ children in
the care of Chinese nurses (male). White children and
Chinese ditto go to school together, and play together,
and some of the white kids can talk Chow as well as the
almond-eyed ones. Also, white ladies (?) have been caught
smuggling opium for their Celestial brothers in the Lord
(no doubt for a consideration). “ Larrakeyah ” says
there were 170 white women in Port Darwin in Dec.,
1906. If there were, those women must have been of a
very retiring nature. I had over three months in Port
Darwin that year, and never saw more than a fifth of that
number. Remember well a remark passed by a bush
mate the first time we saw the town. (We came from
Wyndham, W. A.) My mate looked surprised for a while,
then turned to me and said, “The skipper’s got bushed
and landed us in Hongkong.”
One day last month two boats came up the
Yarra for the first time. One was the Rooganah,
a three-masted schooner built in Port Cygnet
(Tas.) by J. Wilson and Sons —a fine sample of
what the Commonwealth can do. The otherwas
Huddart Parker’s new Werribee, built in Eng-
land ; and inside the Werribee were two new
boilers for the same firm’s Courier all fine
samples of what the Commonwealth isn’t allowed
to do. And Deakin says that Protection is
assured. And Jocook, the Foreign-trader, expects
to be in the new Ministry, by the grace of some
alleged Protectionists.
Before next Empire Day comes around an
Act should be passed providing that anybody who
alludes to “ the British Empire on which the sun
never sets ” shall get three months without the
option. The statement only serves to upset the
average kiddy’s ideas of geography. Of course,
the sun never sets on the British possessions ; but
that is also true of the United States, Russia,
France, Germany, Denmark, Portugal and Hol-
land ; and a boast which only puts Britain on a
level with Portugal is hardly worth making.
SPRINGVALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The only suburban railway line in Melbourne which
doesn’t pay is the line to Springvale cemetery.— Regretful
statement by Railway Commissioner Tail.
No city clamor worries
This suburb cool and still ;
Fast as the mad world hurries
They let it race at will;
No suburb have I ever
Known quite so calm to stay ;
Yet, spite of all endeavor,
The traffic will not pay.
In vain the Landlord’s murmur
Tells of its peaceful nights ;
The price will grow no firmer
For residential sites.
They’d rather crowd together
In din and smoke and smell,
Since each who travels thither
Rides in a wooden shell.
No man will chose that dwelling,
Or pass that wicket-gate,
Just for the sake of swelling
The revenues of Tait;
Upon that trip unpleasant
There is no rush to stray.
I fear that for the present
The Springvale line won’t pay.
VICTORIA.
L.


THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU UtSED PEARLS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If. on tbe other hand
-that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally— you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
STEINWAY s SONS’
(New
York)
Pianos
THE WORLD’S GREATEST PIANO.
In Concert Halls all of the World’s greatest Pianists use the
STETNWAY when at the height of their artistic career.
M»BRINSMEAD 8 SONS’-
ENGLAND’S GREATEST AND BEST PIANO.
Established in the Reign of King William IV., and iwllww
gained the highest possible distinction, the Cross of
the Legion of Honor.
Julius FEURICH (Leipzig) Pianos
The Greatest of all GERMAN-MADE PIANOS.
HAVE BEEN SELLING IN AUSTRALIA FOR OVER 40 YEARS.
HICNON PIANOS
The Best Medium-priced
Piano in the World.
NANON PIANOS
The Most Popular Piano in
Australia at the Price.
MASON AND HAMLIN ORGANS
Admitted to be the Finest AMERICAN ORGAN yet manufactured.
CHASE AND BAKER PIANO PLAYERS
ABSOLUTE PERFECTION OF TECHNIQUE.
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
SOLE AGENTS:—
NICHOLSON & Co. Ltd.
Palatial Music Warehouse,
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EDUCATION
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence
Can Train You— By Post.
Our splendid system is training ins\n mtkm k'ihorough'and
from "
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
auditing
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
tjrpTTrr to VOTTR HOME, no matter where you live, ancl is just
The RIGHT
EXAMINATIONS! EXAMINATIONS!
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
„ , , t , ,1 uTT-RT Tf' 1 17,Y A MTN ATIONS is the best evidence of the
The success of our students at all p UBLIOE A T POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
STTPTP.RTORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL lUpiAp 11,01
bU 1 coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, shoidd write to us at once^tquTrK
It is a mistake to delay this matter. II OObTS NOL. a J state exami .
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E w“ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
nation or subjects in which you are interested. IHOKOUUtIINJioo
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE
428 Collins Street, Melbourne ; Union Ch»mb«s,
Pitt Street, Sydney ; 172 Queen Street, Brisbane,
BrooKman’s Chambers, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
v;
m
m
"BOOMERANG 1
AWARDED
I'i'uRAND I'RIX
XJHLE
franco -British exhibition:


Charles Heidsieck
EElli
£XTKA DHY
FINEST EXTRA Q?
The Praise of its Pleased
Customers has made the
Success of
“Silvashgen” Satin
Tens of Thousands of Women have
proved its Greater Reliability and
Value by Actual Use, They Buy
it again and again, year after year,
and they tell their Friends.
FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
The drawbacks of a chemists’
profession are the long hours,
and having to listen all day long
to other peoples’ aches and pains
—and no matter how dog tired
we may get we cannot take a
glass of anything, having always
to keep a clear brain.
Perhaps, after all, it’s a good
thing for us that we’ve to be so
very careful, because it makes us
turn to tea, and tea’s as good a
thing as anybody can drink —
of course, when 1 say tea, 1
mean pure tea, and presume
that it’s not overdrawn in the
making—now, as nice a cup of
tea as anybody need ask for is
Robur No. 1 Grade don’t
stew it — let it draw just “five
minutes ” —no longer—that’s the
secret of a good cup of tea
you’ll remember that, won’t
you?
The Chemist.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
w
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, Junk 1, 1909.
My Dear Aiunt,—
Lady Rosalind Northcote, a niece of our ex-
Governor-General, lias lately published a book of
her Egyptian travels, and made a very good job
of it.
The Countess of Dudley is back from Mel-
bourne, and our new State rulers, the Chelms-
fords, are at “ Cranbrook.” So, as Browning’s
Pippa sang, “ All’s right with the world.”
In an old drama of Bland Holt’s was a comic
person who, after be ng thrown out of numerous
premises—he was about the most thrown-out
person in all dramatic art —and having the door
banged on him, would return to shout through the
keyhole, “ Sorry I don’t suit.” The thought was
quite inappropriate, but I did think of him when
I read the evening paper’s report of the text of
the mayoral address on behalf of the Mayor,
aldermen and citizens of Sydney to the just-then
arrived Governor Chelmsford' and Lady. This
paragraph occurred :
Your appointment is regarded by us as being an emi-
nently appropriate one, in view of the reputation you
have already justly earned as Governor of the sister State
of Queensland ; and the experience acquired and the high
qualities exhibited by you in that position are an ample
guarantee of your ability and worthiness to sustain with
credit, honor, and dignity the high office you have now
assumed.
Lady Chelmsford was also assured of hearty
greetings, and the speaker trusted that her
Ladyship’s stay among us may be a pleasant and happy
one for her, as we are assured it will be for us.
The new employers make it plain to the new
employee that they think him very lucky to get
such a good “ place.” Both he and his wife bring
excellent “ characters ” from their last “place,”
therefore they are regarded as worthy of employ-
ment in our larger, smarter household. The
aldermanic appreciation for the Chelmsfords was
insisted on, not for the vice-regal pair themselves,
but because they “suited” Brisbane so well, and
therefore when they get into our ways they will
“suit ” us.
The Rupert Clarke lady, wife of the baronet
sport, is due in Sydney on Thursday this week.
She has taken a suite at the Australia. So have
the Argus Mackinnons. Our unbroken length of
blue-and-gold weather is magnetising a lot of
Melbournians liereward.
For three years a club for bringing together
lonely eligible Londoners has been in existence in
the city of seven million inhabitants. A clergy-
man and his wife conduct the fusion business,
and are now in a position to tabulate, in order of
attractiveness, the men women are most anxious to
marry. In nine professions clergymen head the
list. “ They are most sought after as life partners,”
says the reverend founder of the club. A lot of us
will snap derisive thumbs at that statement. He
probably wants to impress the public, but more
especially his wife, with the belief that his own pro-
fession is the most galloped after by the amorous,
clamorous female, and that he is really a devil of
a fellow. Second on the list, doctor-husbands are
stipulated for by the lovely eligible London
female. Sawbones ought to head the list. Did
you ever yet know a doctor who hadn’t from five
to fifty women sentimentalising over him. Each
sends him a birthday book with “’Tis better to
have loved and lost than never to have loved at
all written on the fly-leaf. He tears out the
inscribed page and puts the book in his waiting-
room, where by degrees it gets filled with the
names of the waitees. Fourth on the list in
order of attractiveness come army men. Jour-
nalists slump to the eighth place, and, last
of all, the precarious poet is asked in mar-
riage. I hats a bad knock for Swinburne
and Arthur Adams and Bvron and Roderic
Quinn. But worst of all is the lawyer. Notonly
do women not ask for him, but they stipulate
against a possibility of his being offered to them
in holy matrimony.
On the part of the men, the desire for young,
pretty widows with incomes is most general. The
second batch asks for the artistic girl who likes
music, and the third lot seek “sensible” girls.
Curiously enough, the woman barred by the man
writing for a wife is the nurse. She is considered
to be lacking in sympathy and deficient in the art
of stroking down.
The extensive Ryrie family has been sent into
mourning by the death of its oldest member,
Alexander Ryrie, M.L.C., who passed over last
Saturday at the tidy age of 82. The old gentleman
was operated on at a private hospital a few weeks
ago, but neither he nor his family entertained
great hopes that he was going to last much
longer. The original Australian Ryrie, the
father of deceased, was a British officer who
battled through various wars, and then jour-
neyed to N.S.W., and exchanged the sword
for the jumbuck. Now his descendants pervade
the land mostly in the Monaro district, and they
all raise sheep, and some of them are soldiers.
Colonel Ryrie, M.L.A., boxing, legislative and
military enthusiast, is the eldest son and probable
successor to the big station at Michelago.
Another author of tales of wayfaring in foreign
parts is Mrs. Zeb. Lane, of Westralia. She and
Her son Alex, fared forth, and the title of the
result is “ Across Siberia by Rail,” by Mrs.,
and “From Sydney to Japan,” by Alex.’
Mrs. Lane’s writing of Siberia makes one
think it a delightful place in which to take
up land. Her train rushed through scores
of miles of iilies-of-the-valley growing wild. Irises
and peonies and orchids were also plentiful.
Only the Russian Government won’t allow a
foreigner to buy land in Siberia, let alone take it
up. The writer gives statistics to show that,
about the middle of the present century, there
will be 135,000,000 more Russians than there are
now. The travellers saw numerous trains going
east with contingents of the 1,000,000 peasants
that the Government is bringing from congested
districts to settle on fertile lands. The railway
management, especially the catering on the trains,
is of the highest order ; and descriptions of the big
cities en route are most informative. Mrs. Lane
sees with keen, longsighted eyes, and her thought-
fulness in appending a list of fares will be appreci-
ated by you when you are ready to do the journey
yourself.
That fog in “ The Englishman’s Home,” under
cover of which England was invaded, was thick
and blankety enough, but our fog on Saturday
night could not have been much lighter. It was
a beautiful, clean dark grey, and serviceable
enough as a resistant to put the Manlv boats out
of the running. On Sunday morning at 10 o’clock,
an early churchman counted 50 women in evening
dress on the Manly wharf at the Quay, waiting
unhappily to get back to their homes and into
less conspicuous attire.
A ball in aid of the Women and Children’s
Hospital, North Sydney, will be held in the
Mosman Town Ilall on Wednesday, June 30.
Honorary secretaries are Mesdames S. A. Cambage,
W. Woolland and J. H. Phipps. A grand pro-
cession of fancy sets will be an extra attraction.
The biggest pearl ever brought into Australia
(that is, direct from its sea bed) is on view in a
Hunter-street shop. It is a “button” pearl
weighing 91 grains. Its owner is pearler Captain
John Smith (the world is full of Smiths), and its
price is £5OOO.
Miniaturist-girl Laycock shows in the same
jewel emporium some of her work on ivory. One
tiny miniature, copied from a painting,
Mrs. Monty Severn at the ankle-
strap and doll-hugging stage. By-the-bye,
that saver of souls, the Rev. Hew Severn, is again
in Sydney, en route to his launch on the Murray,
where he plucks brands from the burning—brands
that live on the banks, of course—for a distance of
400 miles.
A desirable parti, one Marcel Heidsieck. of the
champagne firm of that name, is in Sydney, and
intends calling in at all the Commonwealth capi-
tals to look after business and let the unmarried
maidens have a chance to win him. He looks like
a Spaniard, but speaks as an Englishman.
Melba, expected to arrive about 8 o’clock p.m.,
by the Mokoia, was doomed to a delay of 13
hours. Thick conditions, as the shipping reporter
says, prevailed on the coast, and the vessel did
not bring in its freight of Song until 9 in the
morning. A miscellany of the nightingale’s
friends had gathered on the Union Co.’s wharf, and
held a conversazione in a fog that was as thick as
a family Bible. When the G.P.O. clock remarked
midnight the women of the party glode away
homeward, but the men didn’t leave for another
hour. Meantime Melba’s chauffeur, fearing to go
to bed, camped in her car all night at Eederal
Government House, and when she did come she
tooted to the Australia, where a bunch of Palings
and a few Press people joined her. None of the
Grand Lama reserve and isolation of six years ago
hedges in the Melba of to-day. She is as acces-
sible and cordial as a poor parson’s wife.
At the Mayoral dinner “ to meet Melba ” on
Saturday night, the 47 invited guests had a chance
of noting how much better, younger and fresher
Melba looked than during her visit here nearly 18
months ago. Her close-fitting, pink, silken robe
didn’t show her any less well-nourished, but she
looked full of a most blessed condition. (1 don’t
quite know what that means, but it sounds well,
and Cassius said it admiringly of Desdemona
when the party was waiting on the wharf at
Cyprus for Desdemona’s old man.)
The dinner occurred in the Mayor’s room at the
Town Hall, and from the angels on horseback to
the caviare a la Itusse it was a capital-lettered
Achievement. Guests were fed at round tables,
six or eight at a table. Song sat between ex-Ad-
rninistrator-of-the-Government Simpson and the
Mayor. A glorious mass of diamonds and pearls
hung at her breast, a rope of pearls on her throat,
and two orders—one the Order of Merit and the
other something that looked like a long-service
medal. It came out of Norway and Sweden
before their divorce.
Mrs. Taylor, all in pink brocade, pink chiffon
velvet and point lace, managed her team of guests
adroitly, and anyone who so desired was allowed
to balance up and bask in the star’s light. Besides
Justice Simpson and his spouse, the two Suttors
(Mr. and Mrs.) were present. So were the
Anderson Stuarts, the C. A. Lees, the Justice
Streets and the Justice Prings, and the Alex.
Gordons—Mrs. Margaret lookingaboutl2yearsold
and pretty—Railway Potentate Johnson, the Lay-
tons, and the Mariches. Melba’s officers of the
general staff (so to speak), Messrs. Lemmone,
Southwell and Miss A. G. Murphy, who were
there, had nq reason to look lugubrious over the
initial reception to their luminary.
On Monday morning, quite early, Melba,
wearing a brown coat and skirt, a prettv
hat and a diamond necklace, motored to the
National Gallery and did some picture gazing
in company with Mrs. Weston, a Sydney matron.
Pianiste Miss Florence Menkmeyer, after nearly
six years’ absence, has floated back to Sydney
intent on adding to its sum of musical know-
ledge. In her absence she has developed
a voice, and Mesdames Mallinger and Gad-
sky have trained it. With the name of
Gadsky we are fairly familiar through news-
paper mention, as she lifts her soprano on
occasions at Covent Garden and the Metro-
politan Opera House. Besides, as a former
prima donna at Berlin Opera House, she used
to please his Imperial German Mustachios.
Miss Menkmeyer’s voice is a mezzo, with
a range of three octaves, and if only out of
the most rubber-neck kind of curiosity, a section
of Sydney will certainly go to hear what quality
of vocalism has been developed after the artiste
had been for years well known as an instrument-
alist. By the way, her newly-acquired gift must
be contagious. She has with her a Japanese pug
that she has taught to sing the scale. Yet autho-
rities assert that the bowwow hasn’t the necessary
mechanism for voice-production. Yet he does
produce his voice considerably in the back yard
on.moonlit nights, and he also produces the cat’s
voice if he can overtake that fleeing animal.
The returned wanderer seems to be a very
genuine melomaniac. Whilst pianoing in Vienna
she used to take all the bouquets given her to a
little cemetery three miles out of the city, and
put them on the graves of Beethoven and
Scliubert. Beethoven’s remains have since been
removed to a Smart Set graveyard, inhabited by
the remains of the Very Best People. Now when
his ghost walks o’ nights it will brush shrouds
with the grand dames who used to play his own
sonatas to him whilst he lolled in their drawing-
rooms and picked his teeth with the candle
snuffers. As he was extremely deaf, he could
endure the playing. Miss Menkmeyer’s enthusi-
asm over Beethoven’s one opera, “Fidelia,”
almost makes her incoherent. It is her keenest
joy to sing the role of the devoted wife; and if
she doesn’t give Sydney an excerpt or twain, it
may steal her pug. Like the gay dog in “ Jack
and Jill,” that pug may become the snatch of the
season.
The pianiste-vocalist mentions a few Australians
she ran against lately. Ernest Hutchison has a
capital position as director of a college of music in
Boston. John Kruse,' the violinist, has more
engagements thrown at him than he can sweep
up, and has, besides, married a wealthy woman.
The fiddler always seems able to do that. Eva
Mylott still has her desirable billet in an American
cathedral (or church).
Baritone Burns-Walker brought out a tenor
pupil last week at the Y.M.C. A. Hall. We had
been hearing of this pupil for some time, and his
arrival on the modest platform of the Y.M.C.A.
must surely be the herald of his arrival in an
artistic sense. He has a beautiful voice—sweet,
strong and flexible, and with considerable capa-
city for pathetic expression. The baritone him-
self also helped the programme and raged in the
hearts of a multitude of the unquiet sex. For
there was a close packed audience, mainly young
women.
“From Footlights to Flower Farm.” Doesn’t
that sound like the name of a story ? It’s not. I
thought of it all by myself, when a girl told me that,
at Carlingford, she had run across a one-time
actress who is now a successful flower farmer.
Miss Milward she was, whose stage-lines were
once cast with the Flemming co. and with the
Broughs. She played in “ The Walls of Jericho”
and the like. Now she cherishes the lily of the
valley and teaches the crimson rambler how to
roam.
Thirty applicants for the billet of city organist
are waiting the decision of the City Council.
Three ladies are amongst the seekers. Truman
will most probably be the selected music-maker.
Professor Ennis, of the Adelaide Uni., has
given three comprehensive and informative lec-
tures on “The Development of the Sonata.”
They would have been better attended if the
public had been told where and when the lectures
would occur. The circulars sent to the various
music warehouses lacked place and date, and
although both were advertised in the papers, one
was given incorrectly. Sydney Uni. Extension
Board must be suffering from a shocking abstrac-
tion of the intellect.
I have just picked up a copy of London Daily
Telegraph, and my eye lights at the first attempt
on this advertisement: “Tittell Brune, now
starring with J. C. Williamson, Australia, dis-
engaged from July.” Miss Brune must be a
regular little tiger for work. She has been on
very active service now for close upon five years,
working with much haste (in travelling) and no
rest (from acting); and she must have made a
huge wad of money. Yet she advertises in
effect that she is ready to start afresh as
soon as she steps off the liner that will
carry her hence in a few weeks’ time. Her last
night in Sydney (Friday) was a memorable one.
A heavily-overgirled theatre, with many of
the damsels wailing like plovers when Minnie T. B.
began to take the good-bye posy after “ Sunday,”
had lighted the bedroom candle of the lady’s
extinction and dropped grease over her frock.
Then, just as the artiste was rehearsing to her-
self the sobbing catch in the voice and accepting
flowers at the same time, a strange thing
happened, as Kipling and others have often
remarked. A girl who holds Sunday sacred
arose in the stalls, and in clear squeaky tones spoke
a little speech of farewell to Tittell, and hoped
she would live long to play the part. Followed
the star’s speech—a marvel of broken-voiced act-
ing, and some of her devotees standing at the back
of the circle climbed up on the top of the rail. If
some one had at the moment struck up “ O Dry
Those Tears,” the song would have been appro-
priate. The star’s final words were “ God blesh
you. God blesh you.”
Miss Brune has gone to Brisbane, and presently
she will close at Newcastle. “ Royal ” Major
accompanies the combination for the remainder
of its Australasian tour; and Bland Holt, with
his popular wife and his first-rate wig, will
pervade the Royal.
Sydney “Muffs” will produce “David Gar-
rick” at the Criterion on Friday evening next.
Miss Stella Chapman, who has been wandering in
Bull and Frog capitals since her last appearance
here, will play. Mrs. Boult, a newly-arrived
teacher of rare dances, is rehearsing a class in the
Sword and Rose Dance for the evening. Admiral
Roore and Lady and a group of the gold-roped
class are to be present.
Our artists, Roberts, Lambert and Longstaff,
were sighted at the big Artists’ Ball at Covent
Garden (London) in February. Longstaff was in
kilts, and Lambert appeared as some dead and
buried king—Alfred the Great, or Charles the
Bald, or Charles the Fat, or Charles the Simple,
or Charles the Bad, or somebody of the sort. The
returned Australian who mentions this remarks
also that Minns has a picture in the R.A., and '
that Streeton had held an exhibition of his
Venetian work.
Which reminds that the Sydney Royal Art
Society will hold its annual ball on June 17 at the
Paddington Town Hall. Mr. W. Lister Lister
was elected president, Mrs. H. J. Preston and
Mr. E. H. Oxnard Smith bon. secs., and Miss
Lister and Mr. G. N. Haclfield hon. treasurers.
The artists are busy designing original costumes.
Judging by a display in a Dunedin auction
room lately there is at least one angry young
woman in Otago. The girl whom Amy Bock
“married” when she called herself Percy Carol
Redwood is the centre of indignation. She
attached no sentimental value to the gifts and
belongings of her bogus “husband,” and shot
everything “he” had given her or left on her
father’s premises into the auction room to fetch
W hat ’ fc cou d ■ Even one of the wedding cakes
” as there; but history does not relate how much
hr ° U ? h J; Apparently, Mr. Amy Percy Bock
grew a little hair on his (or her) face, as one of his
dressing-cases contained quite an assortment of
razors of excellent quality and high price Thev
were sold for a song likewise “his” pyjamas and
his biled shirts. The jewellery had better luck
and brought good prices. When a young ladv
starts to part with the jewellery her “ youn'o-
man gave her it is certain that she is a verv
al *gry young woman indeed. *
Yours affectionately.
AKENEHI.
Concerning the business side of bishoping :
The new Anglican Archbishop of Svdnev is to get £2250
a year with a house to live in and all rates' and taxes paid,
lhe late Bishop bagged a trifle more ; for five years his
average income was £2784, less about £322 for fates and
taxes, leaving £2462 net, which is more than either Peter
or Paul managed to collect. And, so far as the records
show, neither Peter nor Paul had a house thrown in'
Australia is, all round, pretty liberal to its bishops
though. The Melbourne gentleman whom Gnash
annoyed gets £2OOO a year, and Brisbane pays £4OOO •
while, by way of comparison, the Archbishop of
Capetown has to pull through somehow on £640.
Bishops in England are supposed to get some huge
salaries ; but plenty of them allege that they can’t collect
more than about half of the nominal screw, and all of
them say that they have to pour out money like beer.
His Ludship of Canterbury is supposed to have £15,000 a
year to pay cab fares and such like with ; but year’s ago
the money that was supposed to earn that much was put
into estates, and Freetrade has knocked off great hunks
from the revenue, so that very few people know now how
much he really does get. On the average, however
an English bishop gets £4200: that is reckoned
the standard wage for the job—as near as you
can get it, £BO a week. Hereford, Lichfield, Liverpool,
Ripon, St. Asaph, Exeter, Chichester, Chester, Bangor,
and Worcester are on that mark. Back and front of
these are Dr. Ingram, who supports the gaiters of London
on £lO,OOO, and the half Bishop of Sodor and Man, who
has to make the best of a poor little £l5OO, and can’t get
into the House of Lords anyhow. But Sodor and Man
probably gets some consolation out of the fact that even
£l5OO is a shade or two better than a rockchopper can
knock out in the briskest of times.
Iceberg Irvine of Vie. is developing into a
farce. He is again explaining his Protectionist
attitude, which is stale, when he ought to explain
his explanations, which are not. Lately he got
up before an audience of the undiscerning women
of Dandenong, and re-introduced hisold wearisome
gabble about his “effective Protection.” This
does him no good, and only invites attention to
his heinous record as an “ effective Protectionist.”
Out of 287 recorded divisions on the Tariff, the
Iceberg voted or paired for the Government
just 69 times; voted or paired with the Free-
traders 110 times; and 108 times he was missing
altogether. Even an explanation the size of
Gibbon’s “ Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire ” wouldn’t alleviate that awful record.


M i
IL 1
n i f ,i
■Pi &$
X
\
3>
&
SW.
\
i?? 7
P
■'-rs
to
,y
fif
M .
r.
*
St
' H
m*
is
m
m
m
m
7
U
&
ft
r.?st
/A
SA
f
K>l2
<&
O
&
N-L
C-O-B-R-A U/ye Boot Polish!
Ghunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Has his jokes
Like me and you
As the ’Roo
Goes fast and faster,
HOW he smiles,
The old ringmaster 1
Chunder, kanga-
Roo and bear,
Playing circus
Ev’rywhere,
Realise that
“COBRA” lightens
Care and Boots. “The
Stuff That Brightens"


(OLD FEET
Do you ever suffer in this direction?
If so! Why? A remedy is at hand
that is so simple, effective and
cheap, that the wonder is that you
have not previously tried one of our
\J
far
%
/ZU
5
'DUNLOPBA6 I
. Costs a fewshillingsj
ensure COMFORT
Worth Pounds.^,
Made all Shapes
S.sizes.
DUNLOP
HOT WATERBAfiS
These splendidly made Bags last several winters, and.
don’t leak. The “ Dunlop ” Bag is freshly made, con-
sequently free from the perish that soon renders most;
of the imported bags useless. To ensure satisfaction
you must get “ Dunlop ” Brand. If your Chemist or
Storekeeper does not stock our brand send direct to us.
THE DUNEQP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney, Adels!a<j, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch.
The^
Tyre
Thai
Ensures
satisfadjo»3^
For WEAR, SPEED and
SATISFACTION!
Last season they won all the
big Australian Long Distance
Road Races. This year if you
want to be “ with the winners,”
see that your machine is fitted
with our Special Road Racing
Covers, which are acknowledged
by Riders and the Trade to be
absolutely the finest on our
roads. Sample section of cover
posted, with price list, on ap-
plication.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and
Christchurch, N.Z.
KANDY
KOOLA
TEA
43 The best i* the country-
side, i* faith.”
.Sold by all Grocers in Red,
amcl Green Packets
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 31, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
On Wednesday last the populace got its little
pageant, postillioned and flanked with outriders,
for the opening of Parliament. The sweep up
Collins-street and the turn before the House
steps is an excellent circus. The avenue of blue-
jackets and band, rising step by step on the grey
background, makes the watcher gape. Governor
Dudley, gold-mounted, and with a twinkle in his
eye, was supported by a bevy of gentleman
helps, brave in their gold trappings, and super-
intended by his vice-sovereign lady, who carries
many sables. Fewer women than usual watched
the show, though they all turned up in full force
at the mayoral reception later in the day. The
Federal show never indulges in the friendly tea that
the President Wrixon’s lady has made a custom
after the splitting open of the State House
session. Probably there is more room in the barn-
like corridors of the old Exhibition. In this
case Mayoress Burston was At Home in the
most homely Town Hall “to meet Lady Dudley,”
and everything feminine and Parliamentary came
to tea there. At the ceremony itself, the Countess
took away the breath of old Conservatives. She
sat on the floor of the House—not & la Turque,
but on a chair alongside her good man’s throne.
Apparently she has broken precedent (which
always reminds one of piecrust) in invading
the dais. The rule has been for Mrs.
Governor to- watch his Excellency’s antics from
one of the pews on the right hand of the
throne. Old Parliamentary playgoers still talk
with a chuckle (and a sigh, nowadays) of the
afternoon when Lord Hopetoun suffered his first
experience of opening the State Pow-Wow in the
House which is now sacred to the Common-
wealth. Poor Hopetoun, the pallid new-
chum, hadn’t much idea of what to do or
how to do it, and his demure young colleen
sat in the pew on his right, watching his
embarrassment. It is the manipulation of his
cocked hat which worries a green Governor more
than the words he has to read. He has to take
his hat off at unexpected moments, and put it
back on his head just when he would take it off,
if his natural instinct had any say in the matter.
Lord Hopetoun, with a prompter behind him,
struggled, or straggled, through the ordeal. He
was always a trifle late with his hat one way or
other, and beads of perspiration bespangled his
brow. At last he missed his cue, and was so late
in removing his head piece that by the time it was
half off the warning voice from the rear told him
to put it back in position. Just then, the un-
happy victim, glancing pathetically to the right,
caught the bright Irish eye of his countess, and
her gravity collapsed. She laughed. But the
Dudley countess preserved an admirable gravity
throughout the performance.
It is all a very quick ceremonial. With the
men left to serious work—in this case full of
bitterness—the butterfly section fluttered off down
the red carpet to its motors and the Town
Hall. The reception there was positively cosy—
an amazing thing. The women had suffered
fearsome vandalism to be done to the sacred
council chamber, ponderous with heavy mayoral
furniture. The huge council, table had been
unmoored and shoved away to the lumber
room, and benches and other pompous alder-
manic-looking chattels were sent plodding after
it. A piano found a convenient corner to tinkle in.
•The Dudley lady patted the warblers on the head—
or words to that effect. She made more elaborate
frockers eat their Mother Hubbard hats in envy
at the simplicity of her pink dress—a pink that is
new and fashionable. Softgoods people call it
pressed rose leaves. Sables that robbed a-many
small animals of their coats wrapped the pink
lady around, around, around, and took the sem-
blance of a turban on her dark hair. Mrs. Deakin
moved in the superbness of a banana-colored cloth
and glode like a snake. The new Knox bride
beamed from the depths of a Mother Hubbard
bonnet, and smothered her mole-colored velvet
wrap in black fox furs. The Best lady was a fair
dream of violets, with sables to keep her
from shivering. Some of the Senatorial
ladies have not arrived yet on the field
of the winter battle. The most energetic
Forrest dame let her Bigjohn advance with-
out her and see what politics would bring
forth. A very dainty frocker, Mrs. Lyttleton
Groom, was missing ; and Senator Curly Keating
left Mrs. Keating in the soft sunlight of her
native Tasmania, playing with her babies and
staying with mother.
Hal Brasch, a swarthy Hercules who rakes in
the sculling prizes at Henley, has won a promise
of life-long admiration from one of Melbourne’s
beauty girls. An engagement is announced be-
tween the rower man and Miss Lola Hart. Hal
Brasch shines also in reflected glory from brother
Alf, a clever writer of Bulletin stories. His
“Mr. Barnes” series, now out in book form, is a
record of how an old goldfields derelict always
obtained cheap beer by telling his reminiscences.
And the reminiscences were so interesting, and
they led up so gently and naturally to the ques-
tion of beer whenever Mr. Barnes felt dry, that
you really wonder, when you read them, if the
veteran got even half the beer he deserved.
Mrs. Edwin Miller, the dashing auburn-haired
sister of Mrs. Bowes Kelly, has just rid herself of
the worser half. The Divorce Court last week
granted her a decree nicely. There was no ap-
pearance of the respondent, but the Bowes Kelly
clan mustered in force. Things were done de-
cently, and in no disorder. The Court just told
the world that Edwin Miller, the railway con-
tractor, was almost a millionaire ; that his views of
love were wide and broad ; that he made over by a
deed of gift to his sister, Mrs. Langtree, a great
portion of his wealth ; and that he did not support
his lawful wife. And she of the auburn hair and
rejected affection told the Court that her sister
and brother-in-law gave her visible means of
board and lodging. Isabel Maud aforesaid is still
in her prime, is free, and trails some exquisite
gowns. And, presumably, she has a comfortable
alimony to go on with; but it was remarked
with amazement that not a word about alimony
was breathed in Court.
The St. Kilda Jacobis lately indulged in a
mayoral ball that was a dream of pomp and
magnificence. Even the flowers on the walls
were golden. The ladies of the crowd wore their
newest frocks and most spangly head gear, and
the woman who did not own the magnificence of
a mayoral or military man-body made up for her
black-and-white figurehead with a few extra
gauds. Mayoral balls just now are a craze—an
epidemic. News comes constantly to the front of
a fresh outbreak in some suburban hall or
another. The attack is soon over, but it is
liable to leave after-effects, such as severe
chills—the Frozen Eye or a rigid backbone.
Diplomacy sometimes fails to encompass the
amount of butter needed to oil the meeting of
so much local greatness. The only other bad
effect is the probable ragging of the housefather
when the bill comes in. Competition is keenest
at a local top-notch show. The frock is an ex-
travaganza, the etceteras are a shriek, and if there
be no family motor the local kebby puts a touch
of color to his bill for freezing in the small hours,
waiting for the hop to die out. Doubtless there is
some mystic inner inwardness of reason for a
mayoral ball. It needs studying. Up to now I
have not discovered it.
St. Vincent’s gets up its charitable frisk for
next week. St. Vincent’s is a ball that draws
the society folk and the Very Best People, to the
distinct advantage of the poor and sick, whom the
good nuns delight to nurse.
There was a wedding down at Footscray last
week—Footscray, the suburb where the smells
came from. Dr. Lane McCarthy’s daughter
Geraldine was hitched in holy matrimony to Dr.
Spring, also of Footscray, and three or four
priests assisted in the solemnisation of the con-
tract. The bride, just out of her teens, is specially
interesting as being the step-daughter of her own
grandmother. Dr. Lane McCarthy, a few years
back, married the charming mother of his deceased
wife.
London papers describe a wedding between Dr.
William Woodburn, “son of Mr. and Mrs. Wood-
burn, of Australia,” and Lady Mabel Foljambe,
third daughter of the Dowager Countess of Liver-
pool and the late Earl of Liverpool. The event
took place at Skellingthorpe Church, Lincoln,
early last month, and the list of guests reads like
a Court chronicle or a Young Ladies’ Jouknal,
with titles dashed about as if they were autumn
leaves or stray cats. The name of the Liverpool
peerage used to be Jenkinson, but a strange hash
of circumstances, which is none too easy to follow,
led to the Foljambes coming into the war-cry and
the pomp and dignity.
The McEaeharn spring blossom, Madeleine, has
bagged an M.P. in the matrimonial market
abroad. The lady is engaged to Mr. William
Mitchell-Thompson, member for Mid-Lanark, in
the land where the Macs come from. He is a
young man in the early thirties, a solicitor, and
with a keen Scotch hold on the bawbees of a West
Indian business. Also he is son of one Mitchell-
Thompson, formerly Lord Provost of Edinboro’,
otherwise Auld Reekie.
Will Dyson’spictureshowis a decided success. It
deserves to be a success on its merits, yet the artist
should feel flattered at the herd of politicians he
drew together on opening day, when caucuses
and such-like were acting as counter attractions,
and an earthquake feeling pervaded the atmo-
sphere. They came in in droves and jerks for a
rushed few minutes. Some stalked in with due
pomposity; others rushed the show like eager
wild cattle, bristling all over, as if they expected
to see themselves portrayed on prominent
placards with horns or other excrescences that
might be visible to the hideous eye of a carica-
turist. George Reid, rolling in good-natured
circles, announced that the show “had been open
some time,” and baptised it with the necessary
initial speech. He informed the populace
that he wore an eyeglass as an incentive to
Art—a special sop to the devouring appetite of
caricaturists. After he had sentthe cheerful creases
of his face in a continuous smile round the
audience as a stone circles a pool, Georgie Porgie
rolled pleasantly away to political fireworks.
Gentle Willy Kelly came in late to an admiring
audience, and inquired anxiously for the author of
the red seal on his picture. Mrs. Gavin Duffy
proved to be the purchaser of the beautiful thing,
which was a portrait right down to the bows on
the shoes and the sunrise socks. Lawyer Croker,
in his faultless clothes and military rigidity, was
confronted at the very doorway with his counter-
part shining from a halo. His tragic start of
recognition was not followed by a faint—fortu-
nately, for in the event of a swoon his friends
would have had to consider the vexed ques-
tion of whether there were any corset-laces
to be cut. Cochrane, that gay young bachelor,
snapped up the Brough caricature—perhaps the
choicest theatrical gem of the collection. The
Norman Lindsay portrait was lent by an early
purchaser, so it couldn’t be sold again. The scale
of prices for the drawings was modestly drawn,
and in the very first half-hour of the show red
labels were dropping like a dust rain, so Will D.
will have to hold hard to some of the work he
planned taking to New York. Andersonian
mummer Roy Redgrave stalked in like a hero,
filling 6ft. odd of space with Himself, an iron-
grey Chesterfield and a lightning glance. After
much searching, he discovered two lineal inches of
caricaturfe. It was like confronting a mastiff with
a toy terrier. There was a decided scramble for the
Kolker picture. Two bids were out-bidded by Mrs.
Kolker—that prettiest woman, wholooked adorable
in gear the color of faded rose leaves and real Cold
Country furs. Kolker carried a critical eye round
the collection, and added a red label or so. Two
pretty sisters of the artist hostessed the show —•
Mrs. Blake in copper-colored browns, and Miss
Dyson in braided blue. The collection shown in
Furlong’s studio in the Royal Arcade has a rip-
ping background of copper-colored screen. It will
hang for a fortnight, and in the meantime new
pictures have been added. The tired Rupert,
whose tiredness is materialised in the carica-
ture, has been too occupied so far with wed-
ding affairs to view his picture. Arthur
Adams, of The Lone Hand, is a portrait
rather than a caricature. It is a living thing.
William Lyne—the well-beloved Uncle Bill—with
his big, bearded face frowning over his elephan-
tine body, was a portrait snapped up by an early
buyer. Sketches of mummer Walter Baker—who
always lifts his hat at the right moment, princi-
pally when his mother is alluded to—and Grant
Hervey rested side by side, like friendly babes in
the wood. There were several bids from the
youth of the city for a picture of pretty Ruby
Lindsay ; but the artist labelled that for himself
as a Ruby above price. Poet Henry Lawson
drawls a weary length on the wall, and Lord Dicky
Nevill goes one lap better in height ; whilst
Deakin’s beard fills a couple of sketches.
Miss Margaret Klos, one of the muscular Klos
sisters band, has opened a Ladies’ Gymnasium in
Swanston-street, opposite the Town Hall. She
proposes to teach the Melbourne maiden to grow
fit and strong, so that ultimately she (the maiden
aforesaid) may be enabled to lean from a first-floor
window of her home and hold the family
landaulette and chauffeur suspended above the
pavement with her teeth. There is nothing like
this sort of feat to arouse attention and its accom-
panying advt., and none knows better how to
school pupils in it than the Klos damsel. Miss
Klos professes to unfold the Klos system, which
combines so many qualities hitherto thought
incompatible.
A part of the populace that likes to charade
managed to get up and wave its patriotic paw on
Empire Day. In the Town Hall, the League
which is yclept Woman’s got together and per-
formed. The vigorous McMahon lady was the
leading spirit, and in a pantomimic procession
of the countries on which the sun never
sets, she draped her gaunt tallness in gorgeous
draping* that spelt India. The Forrest dame,
billed as the Commonwealth, missed her boat, and
subsequently her cue ; therefore Mrs. James, her
understudy, disported the salmon pink gear that
represented the extreme infancy of Us. Mrs.
Weedon found it in her heart to drape
her munificent charms in pale blue. A
flowing Grecian robe cataracted over her
rotundity, and in some mysterious way sug-
gested S. Australia. Secretary Mrs. St. Ledger
tangled herself in bananas and bSohe-de-mer , or
trimmed herself with crocodiles, or wore some such
Northern products. Charlotte Hemming de-
claimed patriotic sentiments, and these full-grown
children had a great time dressing up and making
believe.
Westralia was a real child. Pretty little
Venora, of the wealthy Watsons, filled the golden
bill. Someone clad the child in pure, soft
cloth-of-gold, and gave her a black swan
to carry. She was a glittering little bauble, and
graceful. Except for some pirouetting by some
Florrie Green pupils, the heaviness was unlight-
ened. And .John Downer, of S. A., discoursed long
and ponderously ; and so was the Empire honored.
A coo-ee dropped from the wandering Carlyle
Smythes, from Breslau (Prussia): —“ This is a
fascinating town. It began about 1000 A.D. —we
never look at anything later than 1500 A.]).,
except perhaps Berlin. There life is altogether
delightful. One goes home at 1 a.m., and the
street and cafes are as crowded as Melbourne is at
midday.” The writers go on to rave about some
Wagnerian operas, so the Carlyle Smythe trip
includes more than cafes and late hours, I am
glad to note.
Raymond Dubois was brought out from France
a few years ago by the Victorian Government as
a viticultural expert, and later on he went to
South Africa in the same capacity, and thence to
his home in Algiers. We are reminded of Ray-
mond because he passed through Melbourne
last week. He joins his wife at Rutherglen,
the centre of Vines and Wines, where the
Austral-Algerian alliance was formed some
years ago. The couple, after leaving a young
Australian Dubois in the local convent, will start
for Papua, where papa is interested in sisal
hemp and other products which threaten to
make the Commonwealth’s tropical isle a big com-
mercial factor in the near future. Mrs. Dubois is
determined to accompany her husband ina proposed
attempt to scale the heights of Mount Victoria,
near Port Moresby. The lady aspires to be the
first white woman to accomplish what, as yet, is
only credited to five white men. From Papua
the Dubois couple will move northwards through
the islands of the Malay Archipelago, and return
to Melbourne in about five months’ time.
Rupert Clarke is another man very keenly in-
terested in sisal hemp. So keen is the Baronet
that he merely waits to give daughter Phyllis
away, and then he also bolts for Papua. The
wedding is on Tuesday, and Rupert flees for the
Sydney express next day.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
Mothers with long-haired blessings still on their hands
felt that, icebergs were skating on their backs when they
read that no less than 28 debutantes were let loose at the
University Ball last Tuesday evening. The whole bunch
of them, with a ’Varsity-gowned host apiece, danced a
special set what time the vice-regals were stepping a
stately measure at the other end of the room. With that
show your ordinary beauty competition was not in it.
The Elder Hall had put its very best foot forward, and
the whole atmosphere was pink with flowers andblushing
buds. The committee simply had to wave its hand, and
peach blossoms sprang out of the walls. Under these
idyllic circumstances no wonder there was a huge attend-
ance, and no wonder the secretary-grads, Rex Wallmann
and C. A. Hamilton, wore the wide smile of satisfaction.
Her charming Excellency was there in blue velvet, and
the two graceful damsels wore traily cream and silver
directoire frocks.
The'School of Mines, which is so big and important
that it almost rivals the’Varsity, will next thrust vege-
tation into the Brookman Hall, and ask a large portion
of our girly population to come and leap with it on July
23, and the girly population will respond with avidity,
this frolic always being a jolly one.
Neither is the girly population going to be always
accepting and never issuing- invitations. The Norw'ood
part of it is conspiring to, repeat last year’s greatest
triumph in committee dances, “The Norwood Girls.”
For this season the 29th of July has been marked off by
the maidens as their own.
Mr. Bryceson Treherne’s classes at the Conservatoire
have filled two evenings to the brim with private and
particular theatricals, just by way of showing the world
a thing or two about really good drama. The first even-
ing w'as handed over to three playlets from the repertoire
of the Irish Literary Theatre, “ The Rising of the Moon,”
“Riders to the Sea,” and “The Building Fund.” The
first two were gems, and moreover showed spots of good
acting. The next night’s programme was prefaced by a
recital of Oscar Wilde’s “ Happy Prince ” by Lucy
Watson, with musical accompaniment, the thing being-
most sympathetically done. Later there was a perform-
ance of “Sister Beatrice,” in which the chief triumph
was the music—specially composed for it by Ruby
Davey—including choruses, a solo, and incidental melody
for strings and organ.
The youngest Plummer girl, Muriel—a sister of Dr.
Violet —has announced her intention of calling herself
something else. The other delinquent is Mr. Schofield.
Sweet Nell Stewart is with us at last, and Adelaide is
putting its X on the box plans in gratifying quantities.
The Hunt Club had a special day on Saturday, the
meet being at Lockley’s. The master, Mr. Carew
Revnell, told Adelaide that it could come and look at the
kennels at New Thebarton, and there would be afternoon
tea at 4 o’clock. Three miles and a half of cabs and
motors responded. Mr. Arthur Laughton, who engineered
the Kleinschmidt Trust, is secretary also to the hunters.
On that fact I hang the remark that this voiceful maiden
has set to work in Britain, after a wander with Miss
Waite over the countenance of Europe.
The School of Design had its exhibition last week, and
showed much needle and stencil-craft, carving (not
duck), China-painting, beaten copper, and 49 other forms
of art. There were some goodly things—among them a
writing table carved by Miss Hamilton, with inner doors
of beaten copper ; a copper fender hammered into beauty
by Miss Daw ; some of Miss Boothby’s kookaburras on a
plate ; and other beauteous tilings wrought by a prettj-
Cleland daughter, a Goode girl, and a Norton damsel.
A Presbyterian Ladies’ College has sprung up here in a
single night. It is really the old Dryburgh (notDrybones)
House, where for over 40 years the young she-idea has
.grappled with the information that x-fv =z, and that
Turkey is the capital of Holland and was conquered in
1066 by Julius Superbus. The late Mrs. Hareus originally
taught these things, and after her came her daughter,
Mrs. Kelsey, in whose capable hands it became one of the
chief schools in South Australia. Now the Murray Cog-
hills have it under their wing, and they had their' Exei.
out the other day to tack the new name on to it. The
old school was next to St. Peter’s College ; but the Cog-
hills have moved it, and the youthful saint will no
longer be able to enjoy some little entertainment not in-
cluded in the bill.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Some Representative Opinions of the Historians’ History.
The late President Cleveland,
Twice President of the United States.
*n my judgment a knowledge of history becomes more
Important with the passing of time, and it seems to me
that it never was so important as in these days of stirring
events and wondrous change.
“ Many of us are obliged to confess that for one
reason or another we missed opportunities to study
history in younger days. However much we may now
lament this, we know the only chance we shall have to
remedy our embarrassing deficiency must be found in
an arrangement of historical facts and epochs in such a
way as to be suited to the engrossing occupations and
scant leisure of our later years.
“ I have never seen a work that so completely
answers this purpose as The Historians’ History of the
World.
“ I believe those who have these volumes within
their reach aie provided with the means of a substan-
tial historical equipment.”
The Rt. Hon. R. B. Haldane, K.C., IW.P.,
Secretary of State for War.
“ The undertaking is a very great one, and I am
entirely of the opinion that the only fashion in which
such a book can be written with the view of making it
available to the general public is by writing about history
as a whole, and dealing with great figures and great
subjects. From this point of view, and not in accord-
ance with provisions made on a national basis, the
enterprise which The Times has undertaken is a novel
one. Should it
succeed a great
service will
have been ren-
dered to the
public.”
Viscount Milner, G.C.8., G.C.M.G.,
Late High Commissioner for South Africa.
“ You seem to me to have attained a high measure
of success in a very difficult enterprise. I don’t know
of any work in English which deals
with ‘ world-history ’ on a scale
which you have adopted, and agree
with you in thinking that such a
book is greatly needed.”
Sir Harry Johnston, G.C.M.G.,
Founder of British Central Africa Protectorate.
“It is difficult to over-praise the result. Not only
is the mental vision feasted to repletion, yet not cloyed—
for the variety of entertainment is extraordinary—but
the physical eye is also made to understand. What I like
about it especially is the way in which it explores dark
corners and periods of history for the benefit of the very
imperfectly educated Englishman, who, until all the
history of the world worth consideration was placed
within reach of his extended right hand and given to him
in excellent print and his own lucid mother tongue, was
probably totally ignorant of the struggles, adventures,
romances, disasters; tragedies, and glories of the history
of Portugal, of Servia, Persia, Turkey, Scandinavia,
Naples and Poland, and Modern Greece.
Mr. J. H. Yoxall, M.P.,
Secretary to the National Union of Teachers .
“ This is a magnificent and wonderfully useful set
of volumes, As a student of history, a writer, a reader,
and a consulter of references, I have dipped into them
again and again with both profit and delight.
“ The compilation of the volumes seems to me to have
been done in a teacherly fashion, objectively, picturesquely,
and interestingly, in no dry=as=dust way, yet scholarly and
full of detail,” '
Sir WiSßiam Treloar, Bart.,
Late Lord. Mayor of London.
“ I think it is one of the most wonderful productions
of this or any other age. It is in itself a complete and
magnificent library of history.,”
c
subscription sale of the History will now soon close. T. -day it
who can afford to pay 7/6, and, after receipt of the 25 volumes, to complete purchase, at a very
low price, in monthly payments of the same small amount.
1 From among the hundreds
of appreciative opinions ex-
pressed of The Historians’
History of die World, a few
are reproduced on this page as
affording a good commentary
upon the information supplied
in the 84 - page prospectus.
From this prospectus every
reader of this announcement
may form his own opinion of
the History. But even when
one’s individual judgment of
so considerable an undertaking
as the History is favourable,
there still remains the question
“ What is the general opinion
“ concerning the History? How
■‘has it been received? So
“ important an addition can
■' hardly have been made to
“English literature without
‘‘meeting with comment from
*' important people—what do
“ they say ? ” It is in reply to
such queries that some letters
from leading men are repro-
duced here —men who repre-
sent a variety of professions
and a diversity of opinions.
These letters go to shew that
the History proves itself to be,
in actual use, all, and more
than all, that it promises.
History is the most universal
of studies, the most profitable
and the most interesting, and
it is truly comprehended only
when it is read as one con-
sistent whole in which every
nation, every age, every episode
takes its place. Little wonder,
then, that the first universal
history published for English
readers since the 18th century
should have met with enthusi-
astic appreciation. Moreover,
in the absence of any library of
history, the reading of history
in any shape has fallen to a
low ebb, and to the great ma-
jority of readers the Historians’
History will come, not only as
the first world history, but also
as the first history of France, of
Germany, of the United States,
of Russia, of Italy, of Scan-
dinavia . . . and to the list
of peoples, ancient and modern,
as to which any connected and
presentable knowledge is rare,
one may well add our own, and
say that, in most cases, the
Historians’ History will also
prove the first good history 0
Great and Greater Britain. In
view, therefore, of the great gap
which the History fills, it is not
surprising that leading men
should have given the work a
hearty welcome. From the
prospectus you may form your !
own independent judgment of
a publication concerning which
its possessors speak in such
terms as are indicated by the j
representative opinions here re-
produced. If you have not
already seen the prospectus,
you should write for a copy at
once (see inquiry form), for the j
may be purchased by anyone
Faeld-larsha! Earl Roberts, P.C., V.C.
The book is a very valu-
able one, and it cannot fail to
be of tho greatest use to me.”
Lord Curzon, P=C., G=C.S O I. s
Late Viceroy of India.
Yout Universal History appears to be a very useful
as well as a scien=>
tific publication Ido
not know whether
more to admire it for
its range or its con-
densation/’ 3
Sir William Anson, Bart,, M.P.,
Warden of All Souls' College , Oxford; Author of '‘Principles
of English Laiv of Contract
“ But these volumes give us something else of great
though rather impalpable value—a sense of the unity of
history. The passing eminence of an individual, the
passing usefulness of a political institution or theory,
the rise or fall of states, the development or decay of
one or another type of civilisation—all these take their
appointed places in the great pageant which the His-
tory of the World unfolds before us; each has
contributed something to the sum of experience which
we now inherit, and we rise from the study of the past,
thus presented, with a fuller sense of proportion, not
only in respect of the events recorded in their relation
to one another, but in respect of the part which our own
generation is called upon to play in the long story of
the human race/’
Earl Cromer,
P=G. y 55.0« oi, 9
Late Consul-General
in Egypt.
“A most valu-
able addition to my
library.”
h-XL<u- .
3
TSae Rev. A. F. Winnistgton Ingram, D.D.,
Bishop of London.
“The volumes appear to me to be a perfect mine
o? useful information. The
illustrations and type are yj n 0
excellent.”
Rev. £l. G. D.D„
Moderator of the United Free Church of Scotland.
“For the average reader, whose knowledge of his-
tory is limited to what he picked up in school, the
Historians’ History will prove invaluable. To those
scholars and students in whose case the classics of the
past in their original form are quite inaccessible, and
works of latest investigation are too costly to purchase,
the opportunity now presents
itself of providing- themselves
with an inexhaustible mine of
first - hand matter not to be
found in any other publication
of the present day.”
The Hon, W. Pember Reeves,
Director, London School of Economics; late High Commissioner
for New Zealand.
“ Inasmuch as there are in the world very large
numbers of persons who, without having time to be
special students, often desire to know more of this or
that period of history than can be gained from super-
ficial articles, I would say that the more widely your
books could be circulated the better.”
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.S., O.M.
“These volumes gave me the most novel ideas I
have received from any history during my life. 1 was
wonderfully impressed. When I was writing ‘The Won-
derful Century,’ I did not realise, as I have tone while
reading The Times volumes, that the nineteenth century
is quite as
wonderful in
the domain
of history as
in that of
science.”
<7
Do you not think that a book so highly prized
by the 1/I?titers of these tetters Would prove a
Valuable possession to you also?
This Inquiry Form, duly filled, in, will go for id. in an open envelope, and will receive
immediate attention at any of the three offices of The Times [l.ondon] in Australia: Sydney,
7 O’Connell Street; Melbourne, 75 Elizabeth Street; Perth, Forrest Chambers, St. George's
terrace.
Please send me, post free, 84-page prospectus of the Historians’
History of the World, with subscription form showing temporary
price and terms of payment.
Name
Y 3
Address


Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Hiss Van Brakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
ANDREW McGEE
fe®H*WBES3S2aIi
507
If ever pipes were made to
please the smoker, these
are. They are Andrew
McGee’s French Briars—
cool smoking, won’t horn
or crack, and the man who
buys one will always fret
the full flavor of the
&
tobacco he smokes. There is unlimited satisfaction in an Andrew McGee French Friar.
The Andrew McGee French Briar, No. 507, 2/6; No. 510, 3/6.
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist & Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, cr. HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAY.
THE FASHIONABLE
Abdulla
NH, in Turkish, 10/- per 100.
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/6 per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/6 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
from 6/6 to 12/6
per 100.
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLAVORED.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth fr leading Tobacconists or the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Postage—Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
THE GOULDS MFG. CO.
Seneca Falls, N.Y., U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
GOULDS
TRIPLEX PLUNGER PUMPS
Designed for mine service and
various other duties, such as
Hydraulic Presses, Municipal Water
Works, Boiler Feeding, Hydraulic
Elevators, etc. Wherever used the
economy of this Pump is a re-
cognized feature. Yet economy is
by no means the only consideration,
for experience has shown that for
most kinds of pumping they are em-
inently superior. Those interested
should write us for a copy of our
booklet. It will be sent on request.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisk)
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
CAPJLLARINE
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
WE GUARANTEE a Moustache
to ANY man, however hard he’s tried to grow one, however slight
the down on his lip. Just one jar of CAPILLARINE will
produce a full-grown moustache in wonderfully quick time. For
25 Years CAPILLARINE has never failed to do all that we say.
10/0 POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE WORLD.
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George St., SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
s
*•
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE “NEVER-STOP” HUMMING TOP.
If?;-: ZHI
MUSICAL SPINttl-H;
- TOP.
This new metal hum-
ming top is of original
design, graceful in
outline, and hand-
somely painted in five
enamelled colors, and
measures 10 inches in
circumference. There
is nothing in the top
line that can approach
it. The top, being
metal and the spring
of tempered steel, is
practically indestruc-
tible. Spins about
three minutes, hum-
ming all the time.
Price 9d. bach post
free anywhere, o r
three tops posted free
to any address for 2/-
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring'
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open. Makes a splendid knife for general
use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife. Price, with full
directions, 2/2, post free anywhere.
Shu
U.SA. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
lor cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watch m e n, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, and -yvill
carry a distance of, 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postdl Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
OR
»
k
k
k
%
EXCLUSIVE WEDDING PRESENTS.
Solid Silver Pieces
of an exquisite beauty, which, with their very
practical nature, makes them the most desirable
Brides' Gifts. Among; the new pieces, we pick
out the following; for particular mention —our
only regret being; that we cannot illustrate them.
Being; exclusive pieces it would hardly pay to
have illustrations made. We will post any article
free on receipt of remittance, and give you the
right to exchange or have your full remittance
back. We supply Complimentary Cards, and
attach them to the article bought by means of
the usual Ribbon, and deliver the goods on the
appointed day to any address.
Afternoon Tea Spoons, in cases, 30s, 355, 40s, 455,
52s 6d, 555, 60s, 70s.
Afternoon Tea Sets, 230 s and 2505.
Bells (Table), 21s.
Butter Dishes, 50s.
Butter Knives, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 11s 6d ; 2 in case, 27s 6d.
Cake Baskets, 150 s, 160 s, 2205.
Candlesticks, 50s, 755, 90s pair.
Cream Jugs, 30s, 32s 6d, 455, 67s 6d, 60s.
Fruit Dishes, 84s, 955, 115 s, 1355.
Fruit Spoons, in case, 37s 6d, 755.
Gravy Boats, 255.
Knife Rests, in case, 8s 6d, 11s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d,
silver-mounted on Glass.
Knife Rests, with Pearl Horns, 20s.
Mustard Pots, 37s 6d.
Menu Holders, 7s 6d.
Pepper Casters, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 255, 32s 6d.
Pepper Mills, Silver and Oak, 17s 6d; Silver and
Glass, 37s 6d.
Rose Bowls, 455, 555, 110 s, 210 s.
Sweet Dishes, 11s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s, 255,
37s 6d, 47s 6d, 635, 70s, 955, 100 s.
Salt Cellars, 13s 6d, 18s 6d, 27s 6d, 30s, 355; 1 pair
in case, 21s, 52s 6d.
Sugar Casters, 555, 70s, 80s.
Sugar Basins, 30s, 50s.
Toast Racks, 20s, 40s, 425.
Trays, 67s 6d, 110 s, 190 s, 5505.
Vases, 14s 6d, 17s 6d, 18s 6d, 255, 27s 6d, 355, 40s
up to 105 s.
Silver Tea Pots, full size, £l3 10s.
Tea and Coffee Services, £3O, £47.
Queen Anne Kettles and Stands, £l7 10s.
Tea Caddies, 40s.
Champagne Cups, 110 s.
Inkstands, 555, 80s, 150 s.
If you have not yet got a copy of our 112-page Art
Catalogue, write for one now. A postcard with
your name and address on, if posted to us, will
ensure a copy by return.
STEWART DAWSON & CO. (Australia) Ltd., 412 George Street, SYDNEY


‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stoekport
Remedy’ for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
WARM FEET WANT JlO PHYSIC
ELECTRIC FOOT WARMERS
COMPLETELY CURE CRAMPS
H
1
Very Comforting and
Healthful.
PROMOTE CIRCULATION
Avert Rheumatism
and Chilblains.
NO MORE CRAMPS
Save you from Chills
and Colds and Tone
up the Entire System
REDUCED PRICE—
-3/6 per Pair,
(Formerly ss. 6d. and 6s. 6d. per Pair)
TF you wear these Electric Insoles,
x you will he safe day and
night from Cramp, you will
have Warm Feet in the coldest
weather, and they will prevent Chills, Colds and Rheuma-
tism. Keep your feet warm and you want no physic. These
Insoles are very pleasant to wear. They are quite
thin and make no difference in even close-fitting boots. The
alternate plates of copper and zinc generate a mild current of
electricity that promotes the circulation of the blood and
tones up the system. If you are subject to Cold Feet or suffer
with Cramp, you should get a pair at once. They will com-
pletely banish your pain and trouble. A man who was
crippled with Cramps has not suffered once in
three years since wearing these Electric Insoles. The price
was formerly ss. 6d. and 6s. 6d. per pair, but we have purchased
a large stock and can thus sell them for 3s. 6d. per pair, and
we pay postage to any address. If yon mention this paper
when ordering, we will send with the Insoles a Sure Cure
for Chilblains without charge. State size of boot.
the uivion company,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Ot proven efficacy for chest complaints.
/NHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
1 rice 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
New Horn Equipment
and Prices for the
EDISON PHONOGRAPH
Henceforth all Edison Phonographs will
be equipped with a large, solid metal,
polygonal shaped horn arid a horn crane.
By these the good appearance of the machine
will be enhanced, and the tone production
improved.
The innovation necessitated a slight in-
crease in the cost of the complete Edison
outfits, which now are priced :
The Edison “Gem,” £2 12s. 6d.
The Edison “Standard,” £5 ss.
The Edison “ Home,” £7 7s.
The Edison “Triumph,” £ll 11s.
These prices are for the machines fitted
with the large horn and the crane.
Call and hear some records on the newly-
equipped Edison Phonographs. You’ll be
delighted.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES’ PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage, 2Ad.).
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Gratia, Monte Carlo.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*o*U*l*S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies,
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
SMOKE
REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
m
[InJ
[LnJ]
m
For Trap or Field a STEVENS
SINGLE or DOUBLE BARREL
SHOTGUN is Ideal. Low in Price-
High in Quality—good gun value right
through ! Made in standard gauges,
lengths, weights, etc. —Hammer or
Hammerless Styles.
STEVENS SHOTGUNS SHOOT STRAIGHT
AND STRONG.
For sale by all progressive Hard-
ware & Sporting Goods Merchants.
Send for 160-page illustrated Cata-
logue describing entire output.
J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
546 Broadway,
Chicopee Falls, Mass., U.S.A.
m
mmm
m
y >
Aggregate Balance Sheet of the Bank of New South Wales
— 31st MARCH, 1909.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation ..£1,016,800 0 0
Deposits, Accrued In-
terest, and Rebate ..27,297,303 18 8 >
£28,314,109 18 8
Bills Pa.yable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amounts at Credit of In-
vestments Fluctuation Account,
Officers’ Fidelity Guarantee and Provi-
dent Fund, and the Bucldand Fund).. 3,793,665 18 0
Paid-up Capital . ..£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,600,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. 223,342 3 2
4,323,342 3 2
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding- Credits, as per contra
£36,431,117 19 10
708,272 17 9
£37,139,390 17 7
ASSETS. '
Coin, Bullion, and‘Cash
Balances .. ~£7,185,266 13 10
Queensland Government
Notes .. ...■' .. 191 ;293 0 0
Notes of other Banks .. 29,953 0 0
Money at short call in
Condon 945,000 0 0
Investments British
and Colonial
Government
Securiiies .. 2,392,997 17 0
~ Municipal and
other Secur-
ities., .. 154,074, 211
Due by other Banks ... 85,793 16 2
Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit .. 3,843,560 15 5
14,827,968 5 4
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Ad-
vances to customers .. .. 20,918,149 14 6
Bank Premises '.. 685,000 0 0
£36,431,117 19 10
Liabilities of customers and others on
Letters of Credit, as per contra .. 708,272 17 9
£37,139,390 17 7
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, 31st MARCH, 1909.
Cr.
Balance proposed to be dealt, vvit.li a - follows
To Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent.
per annum
„ Augmentation of the Reserve Fund..
~ Officers’ Provident Fund
~ Balance carried forward
£l-25,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
38,342 3 2
£223,342 3 2
By amount from last Account .. .. £36,9X0 0 3
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits after de-
ducting Rebate on Current Bills, In-
terest on Deposits, pay in <r Note and
Other Taxes, reducing valuation of
Bank Premises, providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, arid fluctuations in
the value of Investment Securities,
and including Recoveries from Debts
previously written off as bad .. .. 156,426 2.11
£223,342 3 2
Dr.
RESERVE FUND, 31st MARCH, 1909 ,
Cr.
To Balance
(Of which £750,000 is invested in
British Government Securities,
and the balance is employed in
the business of the Bank.)
£1,650,000 0 0
£1,650,000 0 0
HARRINGTON PALMER,
S. E. LAIDLEY,
j- Auditors.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, Uenerai Manager.
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
*7
To Shave Well
—quickly and clean, is easy enough with the RIGHT
sort of razor—the Razor with the keen cutting edge.
™PI TIM DA7AD is a TREAT. Hasan extra
rLUm KAMm hollow ground blade, is
finely tempered, and needs little stropping. We
guarantee and keep it in order 2 years free of charge.
Price 10/6,
Post Free.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
JORDAN’S
Home” Battery
IS A SPLENDID GIFT.
What better present for the home than
our handy, reliable “Home” Battery.
It will answer a thousand purposes in
health or sickness.
After a day’s hard work, mental or
physical, a touch of rheumatism, or a
sleepless night, its reviving properties
will tone up the system, relievb and cure.
The “Home’’Battery is easily adapted,
easily worked, and Costs nothing to use.
FOR ATHLETES, Business Men,
Tired Mothers,. Old People, Young
Children.
PRICE.
Post
Free.
Money back if unsatisfactory.
JORDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Dee Are He Hay Dee Hen Hoe You Gee H Tea
£5O
Given away in sums of j£l each to first 50 persons sending correct answer
to above puzzle of one word only, before 31st July, 1909. With your
answer, enclose Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of DREADNOUGHT PILLS The
best Liver, Kidney, Blood and Bowel regulator ever known. We are giving these presents
to introduce our Wonderful Pills. Names and addresses of winners posted to all com-
petitors. If less than 50 correct answers, the £5O will be equally divided. Write at once,
as advt. may not appear again. The Empire Pill Co., Flinders St., Melbourne.
CURES
For eighty years POWELL’S
BALSAM has been the one
safe and reliable remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES.
Sold by all Qljemists and Stores.
Sole wholesale agents for New South Wales and
Queensland —Elliott Bros., Sydney & Brisbane.
POWELLS
BALSAM
CURES
Read the following proof of its
efficacy.
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford,
writes —“ If the value of ‘ POWELL’S BALSAM
OF ANISEED ’was better known, many who suffer
with Coughs, Bronchitis, and other Lung Troubles,
would do as I have done for upwards of 50 years;
I take that when nothing else will give relief. 1 One
or two bottles invariably set me up. It is invalu-
able. I have several times given a bottle to suffer-
ing friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have
had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last,
and two or three bottles had the desired effect when
all else failed. You may make what use of this
you like.” —December nth, 1907.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland's
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite
with mothers everywhere.*
C OMSTOC/f$
Children
HEAD SHOT
a- Adu ts
Are a safe, sure and reliable remedy, prepared in
the form of a lolly, effectual both with children
and adults. Price Is 6d. (6 boxes Bs. 6d.), at all
chemists; or post free from the W. H. Comstock
Co. Ltd, 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
yMgUikute?
& Sohn,
A. G.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
Prism
Bino-
culars.
new models.
For Military, Naval, Sporting, Opera,
and Tourist Use.
Brilliant Definition and Marvellous Illumination.
Sole Australasian Asknts :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled, “ What
Binocular to Select,” post free.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE .
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLQARPIE.
Bee WERT and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Saturday, as far as Sydney was concerned, was
a day of surprises. Contrary to general expectation,
South Sydney (Union Rugby) walloped its big brother
Glebe by 12 points to 10; and had South possessed
a kicker of parts, the margin would have been greater.
The other surprise was when Thoroughgood, with all the
public’s money at his back, was defeated on the Parra-
matta River by Pearce, in the sculling match for the
championship of Australia, with a margin of tvro lengths.
Owing to the fact that neither team had so far
suffered defeat this season, extraordinary interest was
taken in the meeting of Glebe and South Sydney (Union
Rugby) teams. No less than 28,000 people crowded along
to see the scrap, which was expected to be “willing”;
and, though they howled themselves hoarse, they must,
on reflection, have experienced some pangs of disappoint-
ment. Neither team played up to standard. Nervous-
ness had gat hold on both of them ; and the players lost
their heads and their skill. The game degenerated into a
wild scramble between the forwards, in which he who
stood up presently fell down, and he who fell down
was trodden on. Truly, Glebe made faint attempts to
open up, but the long-legged Southerners came round
the scrum and fell on the halves before they got going.
The Glebe machine was too nervous to stand being-
bustled. The only men who kept cool were the full backs
on either side ; and they performed mighty deeds. By no
stretching of the term could the wild scramble be called
Rugby. It was a “rastling” match, a blind jumping of
excited individuals, a milAe. South scored three tries and
a penalty goal; while Glebe crossed the line twice, and
converted on both occasions. It was a depressing scrap.
Altogether it was Glebe’s unlucky clay. The
Union Second XV. was crushed by Sydney to the tune of
22 points to three ; and while the Union First Grade team
was being walloped the League First XIII. was pounded
into mush by the South Sydney team by 28 points to two.
At time of writing Glebe is still wondering what on earth
struck it on Saturday.
» * ■* *
It is painful to have to say it, but the truth is
mighty and must be told, else it may burst and wreck
the premises. Eastern Suburbs (Union) has gone to the
Devil the last fortnight. On Saturday week South Syd-
ney dished it by 12 to nil, and there was talk of a lost
reputation ; but this Saturday Newtown fell on it and
treated it to the sort of pleasantry that the cat deals out
to the intoxicated mouse. The awful affair ceased when
Newtown had scored 45 points to nil. Which is about
the worst mishap that has struck a first-grade Union
team during modern times. The walloping of University
by 12 to 10 on the part of the generally decadent Sydney
crowd was another facer, and a demonstration of how the
impossible does buck up occasionally. Western Suburbs’
squelching of Balmain by 16 to 11 was a dreary, uninter-
esting spectacle, which ran a close donkey-race in
uninterestingness with St. George's scrunching of North
Sydney by 27 to eight. Altogether, as far as Union
Rugby was concerned, Saturday was a dreary day.
♦ * * *■
The downfall of the Glebe League team was
due to the fact that South Sydney brought along an un-
usually strong crowd, and Glebe had left some of its best
warriors out, apparently to give the colts a show. Great
was the disaster ; all the same, the policy of giving the
colts a show is a good one.
The result of the shake-up was to put South
Sydney absolutely on top of the heap, as far as the
competition is concerned, with 12 points. Second place
is held by Glebe with 10, followed by Newtown and
Western Suburbs with nine each. Behind that are stag--
nation and a hopeless outlook.
'-* * * *
The Westralians having gone down the South
Coast, the Sydney Soccer crowd resumed the discussion
over the Rawson Cup. Garden Island is said to have
received a mortal injury in its vanity, and chucked the
whole competition. Anyhow, it never had much chance
of getting near the top, so the retirement will not hash
up the Cup struggle in any way. Rozelle continued its
conquering career by laying out Newtown —six goals to
nil. Considering that Newtown is quite a new club and
Rozelle considers itself just it, the score should have
been larger* But the Newtown boys struggled most
creditably, and, considering everything, they covered
themselves with glory. In fact, there is arising a serious
doubt as: to'Whether: Rozelle is really it; so far its
triumphal career has been at the expense of the weakest
clubs. It has yet to face the teams of its own size and
tonnage and experience, and then the community will
probably see things. Pyrmont was to have played
Garden Island, but received a forfeit, much to
its disgust. Sydney-Granville struggle, which at-
tracted a large crowd at Moore Park, ended in
a draw, with one goal each, after as pretty an exhi-
bition of Soccer as the most fastidious could desire.
Some of the Rugby champions should take an afternoon
off, and watch these fellows dribbling, and take a lesson
therefrom. Glebe downed Ultimo by two goals to one —
in fact it was only this victory that saved the whole Glebe
football fraternity from despair and beer on Saturday
night. It was the one gleam of hope and joy in the
desert of defeat and wide-spread disaster. The Powerful
team went down to Balmain by the narrow margin of one
goal, Balmain scoring two. Northern and Western
Suburbs also put up a fine game in the wilds of Leich-
hardt, in which the Northmen, made strong by much hill
climbing, won with two goals to one.
Rozelle is in a proud place indeed, and heads
the Rawson Cup competition with 10 points. However,
Pyrmont is close up with nine, and Sydney and Ultimo
are still within striking distance with eight each ; while
Glebe is not altogether hopeless with seven. The Power-
ful has six, which is dispiriting ; and below that the
chances are not worth considering.
« » * *
As to Melbourne’s League football, South still
wears the jaunty air and the cocksure manner of the
undefeated, having successively blown out Geelong,
Carlton, Melbourne', ’Roy and ’Wood. For the first half
of Saturday’s game, against the last-named, it looked as
though defeat was impending. The scores were then
equal, but the Magpies had all the better of the play. In
the third term, however, “Skinner’s hirelings” soothed
their disgruntled barrackers by carrying all before them,
and scored 20 points to ’Wood’s one. In the last quarter
the Collingwood men got their system going, and strove
strenuously for the needed goals ; they had all the play
and did all the attacking, but ever just in front of the
posts stood the Red and White backs, putting up a strong:
defence. But for those three battlers, and the fact that a
strong: head wind made high kicking- useless, South had
assuredly gone down ; as it was, the struggle ended with
South, 46 points; ’Wood, 26. This writer dislikes
throwing bricks at umpires, who get quite enough
compliments of that sort as it is; but, having-
carefully considered the official who presided over
this match, he agrees with the general opinion that
he has mistaken his vocation. He would make a better
State Premier, being gradual in his habits and uncertain
in his opinions, though he is not too bigoted a reaction-
ary to learn. Carlton’s many supporters, as many M.C.C.
deadheads, and a quantity of ordinary spectators trooped
on to the Melbourne ground to see the concussion of the
two old rival clubs. The episode was exciting, each side
gaining a lead till lemon-time, when the Old Blues were
four points ahead. Thereafter the knowledge that an
accidental goal might mean defeat acted as a tonic, and
set the disorganised premiers bogging in at such a rate
that they piled up four goals in almost as many minutes,
winding up with 80 points to Melbourne’s 57. On the
Fitzroy ground the Maroons collided with Essendon, and
put up exactly the same number of points as against
South the week before—viz., 37 ; but as the ’Dons simul-
taneously scored 61 there was little satisfaction about
the coincidence. In fact, Fitzroy played second violin
through the performance, and in the last, or fourth,
act went all to pieces. Geelong, playing the same team
that beat Carlton the previous Saturday, encountered
'Varsity and a similar game resulted, including the
strenuous rush in the later stages and the sudden piling
up of four goals ; but this time it was the Students who did
the piling. The Seasiders raised their tally from 18 to 28
points in the last half, while Uni. hoisted its figures from
24 to 63. Uni. is becoming a circumstance, and if
it doesn’t go stale will shake things up presently. The
holy walloping that ’Wood previously administered to
Richmond didn’t justify the expectation of a close game
between the latter and St. Kilda, especially as Richmond
was minus four of its best men. Besides being notable
as a collision of giants, the episode was a study in erratic
scoring. Starting with the wind the Richmond men
kicked five clean goals in the first quarter. Changing
over they could do nothing, and the interval found them
with 30 points, while Saints had steadily and laboriously
notched a similar number of goals, with as many behinds
—35 points in all. In the third term Saints added eight
points, Richmond 10 ; and in the face of the high wind
the last spell threatened disaster to the latter. But that
last term was a revelation, best expressed by the state-
ment that, while Saints added seven points, the Rich-
mond forwards scored another five goals with nary a
behind —giving 70 points to Saints’so. As the 11 goals
were booted by six different men, the Richmondites can
evidently kick straight when they are in the humor.
* * * *
The Vic. Association Premiers, Footscray,
again tasted defeat—at the feet of ’Town —by 33 points to
39 ; but the narrowness of the margin is a hopeful omen
for ’Scrav, inasmuch as that redoubtable organisation
had to replace no less than eight of its old warriors by
comparative novices. ’Scray has struck much the same
trouble as the League premiers, Carlton ; and through
the week its committee, after speaking firmly to several
individualistic players, requested the captain to become a
private ’bailer, and enthusiastically retired the champion
goal-kielter over a difference of opinion as to his “ ex-
penses.” Most of the honorable gentlemen rebuked took
the hump ; but there is no occasion for 'Scray to be down-
hearted thereat —the}' have been adequately replaced.
The unbeaten Prahran sent its strongest team down to
Brighton, and managed to hold its own, and no more, till
three-quarter time ; then its better condition and system
enabled it to run Bent’s suburb to a standstill, and its score
was 74 to Brighton’s 41. The trifling, accidental North
team visited Preston, and seems to have discovered that
it was up to it to have a win, and that Preston was,the
likeliest victim in sight, wherefore, having got an early
lead, it ran out with 60 points to Preston’s 52.
Brunswick received the lamentable Ports, and booted
4 goals 6 behinds to Port’s 1 goal 10 behinds, which latter
is a tally that ought to be expunged from the club’s
records, or struck off the rolls, or something. The power-
ful Essendon team visited Northcote and cheerfully piled
up 80 points to ’Cote’s 21; but the star performers at this
game were not ’bailers at all, but two ordinary Johns.
The lop-sidedness of things seems to have got on ’Cote’s
nerves, and in the third quarter an elbow-jab met with a
straight left. This was countered with a neat upper-cut,
and then the two teams “got to” one another with much
enthusiasm but little science. The umpire blew his
whistle; but he was about as convincing as Wilks explain-
ing his political attitude, and the riot was only stilled
when the aforesaid “ cops ” threatened to lock the whole
lot up if they didn’t desist.
* *
These days the football player can command
many luxuries. One was charged in Victoria a week or
so back with failing to maintain his deserted wife, and he
was called upon to find a surety that he would do better
in future, or go to gaol. Up stepped a representative of
the club, and proposed that the club should go surety.
It was only a third-rate country club, but it reckoned the
necessary 12s. 6d. a week could be worked into the
balance-sheet as boots or bandages or something. The
honorarium, however, was a soulless cuss with no eye for
sport, and refused the surety.
•* * ■* •
The Kangaroo balance-sheet, issued by Mr. J. J.
Giltinan, is depressing reading to gentlemen who con-
template taking football teams to Britain. The receipts
were £5009, and the expenditure £5227, leaving a deficit
of £2lB, against which Mr. Giltinan has a typewriter,
worth £l3 when new, and sundry advances amounting to
£2O. If the typewriter is still worth £l3 and the sundry
advances are repaid, the net deficit is £lB5. On the other
hand, Mr. Giltinan advanced the team £1978 from his
own purse, and the N.R.U. advanced £l4O, a total of
£2llB. The repayments are set down in the balance-
sheet as £l9OO, so there is a further deficit of £2lB coming
out of someone’s pocket, presumably that of Mr. J. J.
Giltinan. Judging by the tone of Mr. Giltinan’s remarks,
he is bearing up wonderfully well, considering all the
circumstances.
•» » » *
The rumor that Sydney Metropolitan Rugby
Union will forsake the Cricket Ground and make the
Sports area its headquarters is gathering volume. The
Cricket Ground authorities affect to regard the rumor as
bluff on the part of the Union, with the object of trying
to stampede the trustees; who, however, resolutely
decline to be stampeded. Quite possible that the Rugby
Union and the Cricket Association will both forsake the
Ground, and then the trustees will be driven to putting
on all manner of scratch amusements with which to raise
enough cash to keep the beautiful stands properly
painted. It is a moral that if the Rugby Union and the
Cricket Association cannot stand the drain of the Trust’s
exactions, there is no other sporting body around the
metropolis that can.
* * *
*
The Australian XL, Ltd., struck a fearful
disaster at Birmingham in the first Test. Although
Noble won the toss it did not avail him, and the Austra-
lian team vanished for 74. It was wet weather, truly,
but the fact that the Englishmen heaped together 121
would indicate that the English bowling was at the root
of the Australian downfall. In the second innings the
Australians did better ; but not nearly well enough to
pull the game out of the mud. Hirst and Blythe each
took five wickets for 58 runs, and the , Australians
vanished a second time for 151. This left the English
with only 105 runs to get to win, and a whole innings
in which to do it. The outlook was blue in-
deed. It got absolutely black when Hobbs and
Fry, opening for England, showed that they could
hold their own against the bowling. Noble Changed his
trundlers without effect, and the score climbed steadily
upward till with Hobbs 62, Fry 35, and sundries eight, the
game was over, and Australia defeated by 10 wickets. In
the second innings the old hands, with the exception of
the alleged has-been, little Syd. Gregory, failed miserably.
Armstrong, who had made the best score in the first
innings (24), vanished for a duck; the great Noble got
only 11, and the greater Trumper scored a solitary one.
It was Gregory and Ransford, the colt, with 43 each, who
alone upheld the tail of the kangaroo in the decisive
innings; and had the alleged giants of the game done
anything like as well, England had not, perhaps, got the
first leg in. But it has got it in, and there it will stay.
Up to the end of the first test, the Australians
record was two wins, three defeats and two drawn games.
The worst of it is that the wins were at the expense of
weak teams, while the defeats were sustained at the bats
of teams of only moderate strength. The outlook is far
from gay from a national point of view ; but as an English
crowd will always roll up in greater mass to see the
strangers licked than it will to see them when they have
a good chance of winning, the chances are that the
XI., Ltd., will not be out of pocket through its incom-
petence. However, there is still time to pull the cam-
paign out of the mud. A curious feature of the first test
wgs that fast bowler Cotter was never put on. Nobody
takes him seriously as a batsman, and if the recent no-
balling has practically eliminated him as a bowler, it
might be as well to send him home again and replace him
with a batsman of greater tonnage.
**■«■*
The dark gentlemen who stepped out of
“Hop’s” missionary pictures to play cricket in Aus-
tralia some months back are contemplating an invasion
of England. Under the leadership of the same old royal
Pope, the illustrious and much-pawed batsmen are to
leave Fiji very shortly for Bull’s country, calling in at
Australian cities en route. They won’t be much of a sur-
prise to Australians this time unless the weather gets
warm ; but when they descend upon Britain in all the
wonder of their weird get-up, the old Other Country will
perish of the first shock of laughter it has had since it
took to Fre'etrade.
* * * ■*
The fourth annual meeting of the Victorian
Motor Cycle Club proved that body to be in a healthy
state. It has 105 members, of whom 82 took sufficient
interest in the proceedings to roll up and hear that the
balance amounted to £B5. The members connected with
the trade voluntarily withdrew from all the positions
their friends and admirers nominated them for ; and the
automobile people will have to follow suit, shortly. Dr.
Rollason, the retiring president, was re-elected for his
thijrd term of office. So far, the motor-bike has not cut
nnjch of a dash in the great eye of the public, but they
doisay that things are being thought of.
* * * *
Road-racing is developing some activity in
Melbourne, no less than four different struggles being
carried out last Saturday afternoon. All attracted large
mobs of starters, and scattered lots of spectators. The
feature of the afternoon was a bit of fast riding by S.
Stephens, who, in the 10-mile road-race of the North
Suburban Cycling Club, fractured the record for the
distance by 2see., his actual riding time being 22min.
* * * *
The match between Harry Pearce and Ben
Thoroughgood on the Parramatta on Saturday, for the
championship of Australia and £lOO a side, was spoiled by
the worry and trouble that Thoroughgood had to get his
stake together. The sports of Raymond Terrace declined
to put up money for any match that was not rowed on the
Hunter River right in front of their doors, so that all the
loose cash in the pockets of the crowd that followed the
race should be spent in Raymond Terrace pubs gnd stores.
It should be a solemn warning to scullers and pthers to
place no reliance on the folk of Raymond Terrace. The
chase around in search of the boodle sadly interfered
with Thoroughgood’s preparation, and until a few days
before the contest he was a much-worried man. The
betting was six to four on Thoroughgood. It will be re-
membered that Arnst gave Pearce a character for stay-
ing by declaring that the Sydneyite pushed him
hard. But this was generally put down to good
feeling on the part of Arnst, and the crowd re-
garded Pearce as a mighty man over a mile, but no
further. Saturday burst up tbe crowd’s idea, and proved
that Arnst spoke truly. (Writer must confess he
was one of the crowd, although he watched Pearce’s
effort against Arnst.) Pearce went ahead from the jump,
and made the pace a streak of velocity for the whole 2J
miles. Thoroughgood rowed as game a race as any man
could, and made tremendous spurts ; but Pearce could
hold his own at any time. At two miles the voice of
Stanbury was lifted up, offering two to one on Pearce ;
arid the men who took it felt bad when, almost immedi-
ately afterwards, they heard Beach, veteran rower and
almighty judge, declare, “ Pearce has got him ! ” ; And
Pearce had. It was off Oabarita, 2§ miles, that Thorough-
good made his last big effort. For a moment he was
alongside Pearce, if not actually overlapping him. But
Pearce came away magnificently, and the race was prac-
tically over. From that out Thoroughgood died gradu-
ally away, and finished up two lengths behind his con-
queror. The race.was rowed against wind and tide, and
occupied 21min. 19sec., which is considered good in the
adverse circumstances.
* * * *
Over at Wanganui (M.L.) Arnst is training as
though his life depended on it. He has suddenly de-
veloped an idea that Webh is much more formidable than
is generally supposed, and will take no chances. Twenty
miles a day is his average itinerary on the water, now,
besides, which he swings the clubs, rides the goat, does’
handsprings and other things. Webb has been doing
.slower work, and puts in a good deal of time running and
walking. Whelch, of 4Xaroa, is pace-making for him,
and his backers are lifting up the loud snort of confidence
in the way the Maoriland barracker usually does lift it.
« * * *
The Zambesi River (Central Africa), above all
places, has suddenly burst forth as one of the world’s crack
rowing sites. The South African rowing clubs were to have
had a mighty regatta there on Whit Monday, which was
last Monday, at which “all the best scullers on earth”
were to be represented. But, all the same, most of the
crack scullers of the world seem to have been otherwise
engaged in Australasia.
* * * *
It is proposed to bring out a team of English
lacrosse players, representing the combined Cambridge
and Oxford Universities, to tour Australia. The visit of
the awful Canadian gang was a financial success, and it is
reckoned that an English team would be an even better
draw. The State Associations are counting the cash and
examining the bank-balances with a view to seeing if they
can afford the necessary guarantee.
* * * *
The Mclntosh is not a one-eyed individual by
any means, and is now threatening to break out in a fresh
place. He proposes a big Marathon race in Australia, with
men like Hayes, Longboat the Indian, and Dorando the
Dago taking part as an extra attraction. It is to be hoped
that the Mclntosh will refrain. -Such an event is not
likely to catch the public dollars in Australia in the
present state of the public appetite.
* » »
Owing to “Professor” Stevenson falling and
breaking a bone in his arm the jiu-jitsu scrap between
him and Ryugoro Shima for £BOO is off. Which, after
all, is a good thing. Jiu-jitsu is not a sport that
will appeal to. Australians—it’s too brutal; and, as a
means of self-defence, there is nothing , in it. A heavy
swing to the point will settle the best jiu-jitsu expert if
it can be got home before he gets into holts. What is
wanted is more practice in the art of getting in the first
wallop.
Judging by tbe crowd that rolled up in far from
inviting weather at the Stadium (Sydney) last week to
watch the Thorne-Douglas fight, the popular taste for
stoush is as keen as ever. The scrap, which largely
degenerated into a scuffling match, went the fijll time,
although the referee did unintentionally try to cut it
short at the end of the 19th round by mistaking it for
the 20th and announcing Douglas the winner. However,
the final three minutes were riin through gaily enough by
both parties. Thorne tried hard for a knock-out;
but failing to get it the verdict on points remained un-
affected. Thorne is striking trouble these days.
* * * *
England has great hopes that its newly-found
bruiser, lan Hague, of Yorkshire, will yet be champion of
the world. Hague is said to be a man of tremendous
physique, enormous hitting- power, and considerable
speed. So far, he has not shown any amazing skill. The
secret of his success is his bashing ability. The same was
said' about Jeffries in his early days ; and therefore
England affects-to believe and hope that Hague is a second
Jeffries. He was to have fought Langford on Derby day,
and if he succeeded in outing the man who was to have
fought Johnson, he is on the high road to a position in
which he will have the right to challenge the best of them.
Although Ketchell, Kaufmann and co. did not
cover the money put up by Mclntosh on behalf of Burns in
New York, Ketchell wrote to say that if he could not
arrange a slogging match with Johnson he would be de-
lighted to scrap with Mr. Burns. Kaufmann accepted
the challenge, but omitted any mention of cash. Johnson
offered to do Mr. Burns further damage if he were
guaranteed £6OOO, win, lose or draw ; but on no other
terms. Much as he delights in banging Tahmmy, he is
not going to do it for the love of the thing. There is
method in Johnson’s hatred.
* * * *
Said that Johnson in the U.S.A. and Johnson
in Australia are two very different individuals. In the
States he is an obsequious and very polite nigger, who
holds his hat in his hand while he talks, and speaks in a
low pleasant voice of Mister Jeffries. Mister Jeffries does
not return the courtesy, and mentions Johnson in a
roundabout way as “ the Big Smoke,” and occasionally, it
is said, refers to him as that “big black cow.” Taking
it bye and large the black man has a bad time of it.
In the United States, where he was born, and of which
country he is a citizen, he finds himself regarded with
utter contempt and stupendous dislike by the dominant
white man. If he goes to Africa, the home of his race,
he will almost everywhere find a still more arrogant
white man waiting to treat him with increased con-
tumely. In almost every part of Africa, and many parts
of Asia, there is now' a white ruler of some kind, and
that white ruler regards the black man as such a mean
circumstance in his own country that he would sooner
perish than sit doum to dinner with him. And if John-
son went to an.v one of the few lands where the
colored man is still independent his pile wouldn’t be safe
from the local murky potentate for ten seconds. Unfor-
tunately, in the two countries—France and England—
where the black man is nearest to equality with the
white, the colored bruiser got swelled head so badly that
these places almost feel like becoming as nasty to Ham
as other places are.
New York was recently driven mad by a public
announcement of James Jeffries from the stage that he
would fight Johnson. When the excitement had cooled
down somewhat James went on to infer that he had re-
sumed his championship, and would defend it against all
comers ; and that before Johnson could claim a walloping
from him he must fight and defeat Stanley Ketchell.
Boiled down, his announcement was to the effect that he
would scrap with Johnson in about a year and a half. He
made no mention of putting up any money, and so far no
word has been received of his having done so. And after
the enthusiasm had died out and people got down to con-
sidering what had been said, there was wafted abroad a
vague impression that Jeffries had taken a long while to
say very little, and that the chances of the present
generation seeing a scrap between him and Johnson are
somewhat vague. The chief result w'as to increase the
box receipts of the theatre where Jeffries is starring,
which is probably all that was intended.
* * » *
It is a long time since a Melbourne boxing bee
attracted so much attention as that in which Gentleman
Jacky McGowan and Bob Greenshields were star per-
formers. Jacky McGowan had not been smiting his
fellow' creatures in public for three or four years,
having been put out Of active operation as the result of a
broken arm sustained in a battle at Ballarat. Bob Green-
shields is a gladiator of the moment, young, slim and
shifty, and he held the Australian lightweight champion-
ship. McGowan, who is close on 40, U'as commonly re-
ferred to before the event in terms that might lead you to
think him a remote ancestor who learnt pugilism hitting
out troglodytes who intruded in his cave. In about nine
minutes he dispelled that delusion, and demonstrated
that the athlete who lives the simple life, and does not
irrationally absorb the juice of the hop, may hit out for
himself most effectually in his earl}' middle-age. Mr. J.
McGowan was something too much for his 25-year-old
opponent, anyhow, and smote him seriously during a
long and trying fight. Bob was in the ring when the last
gong sounded, but he was a shocked and weary fragment,
and had been twice down, suffering recovery from horrid
swipes. McGowan was declared the winner.
The' great Warrnambool to Melbourne road-
race, which is promoted and managed by the big Dunlop
Rubber Co. and run under the auspices of the Vic. League
of Wheelmen, is set down for Saturday, October 2.
Although not yet definitely decided, it is probable that
the big Rubber 00. will limit the number of entrants, in
the event of which it will be a case of nominate early and
avoid the crush.
WORMS.
Every child suffers more or less from those very
troublesome parasites which infest the stomach
and intestines, thread and stomach worms, which
are the cause of much of the irritability, fretful-
ness and restlessness in children of all ages. Pur-
gative medicines have no effect upon worms; they
require a specific remedy.


THE IDEAL WINTER RESORT-
Hydro-Majestic and Hotel
Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains.
3500 ft. above sea level, and just 2i hours’ railway journey from Sydney.
MOTORS DAILY TO JENOLAN CAVES.
Here, housed in a palatial Hotel and with exquisite scenic environments, one can
realise the Best Winter Holiday.
Telephone 29 Katoomba; or call up CITY OFFICE, 42 CASTLEREACH STREET, Telephone 4349.
Legal Notice.
GEORGE HOWARD DECEASED.
nURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division of
*- the High Court of Justice in England dated the loth
January 1908 made in an Action in the Matter of the
Trust, of the Will of GEORGE HOWARD deceased
HOWARD v. HOWARD 1907 H. No. 3413 the following
Enquiry was directed namely An Enquiry who are or
were the children of JOHN HOWARD and CHARLES
HOWARD respectively living at the time of the Testator’s
death and whether they are living or dead and if dead
who are their respective legal personal representatives.
Now all persons claiming to be such children or the
legal personal representatives of such children as aforesaid
who may have died are on or before the 20th day of
October 1909 to come in and prove their claims at the
Chambers of Mr. Justice Swinfen Eady and Mr. Justice
Neville Room No. 706 at the Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 26th day of October 1909 at 11.30 of the clock
in the forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for
hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated the 20th day of April 1909.
H. HUGHES ONSLOW,
Master.
NOTE.—The above named Testator GEORGE HOWARD
formerly lived at Temple End Farm Little Thurlow
Suffolk afterwards at Carlton Cambridge and latterly at
Little Chesterford, Essex and died on the 7th day of
January 1892. His Brother the said JOHN HOWARD
married ELIZABETH WEBB who died in the year 1841.
The said JOHN HOWARD emigrated to New South Wales
about 60 years ago taking \Vith him some of his children
by his said wife and one MARY TAYLOR a Widow whom
it is alleged he previously married. He died at North
Yass in New South Wales on the 22nd March 1891. His
Brother the said CHARLES HOWARD was married to
KEZIA MOORE and died on the 11th day of March 1888.
One of the children of such marriage named FREDERICK
GEORGE HOWARD went to New South Wales and has
not been heard of since the year 1904. Another of such
children named MATILDA married one THOMAS
DAINTON a Railway' Engine Driver at Wimbish in the
County of Essex and died at the Islington Infirmary in
1896.
MORRIS and BRISTOW,
41 Bedford Row,
London, England,
Agents for d’Albani and Ellis,
Newmarket; England,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
FOR SALE, BY AUCTION, at Messrs. Lawson and
Little’s, Pitt Street, Sydney, on Friday, June 4th :
A 16-20h.p. Clement Motor Car, original cost
£SSO, side entrance, French body, spare tyre and Stepney
wheel, four lamps, in perfect condition, fast and silent,
and economical in upkeep.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
Legal Notices.
THOMAS DIXON GEORGE DIXON AND DOROTHY
MORSE.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Court of Chancery of
the County Palatine of Lancaster (England) in the
matter of the Estate of RICHARD DIXON deceased
whereby enquiries were directed to be made by the
Registrar (inter alia) whether THOMAS DIXON GEORGE
DIXON and DOROTHY MORSE (three of the beneficiaries
named in the Will of their Father the said RICHARD
DIXON formerly of Lancaster England Farmer) are living
or dead and if dead when they respectively died and who
are their respective legal personal representatives and
also whether the said DOROTHY MORSE has had
any and .vhat children and whether such chil-
dren have respectively attained the age of 21 or
married and whether such children are living or dead
and wdio are the respective real and legal personal
representatives of such of them as are dead after having
attained the age of 21 years or having married the person
or persons claiming to be any of the persons referred to in
any of the said inquiries are by his her or their Solicitors
requested on or before the 18th day of August 1909 to
come in and prove his her or their claim before the Regis-
trar of the Manchester District of the said'Court at his
Chambers situate in Duchy Chambers 4 Olarfence-street
Manchester England or in default thereof they will be per-
emptorily excluded from the Benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 7th day of September 1909 at 11 o’clock in
the forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Any person having knowledge of the whereabouts of
the said THOMAS DIXON GEORGE DIXON and
DOROTHY MORSE or any of them if living or the place
of death of them or any of them or as to the whereabouts
of the wife or family (if any) of any of them is requested
to communicate at once with Messieurs BELLHOTJSE
and SYER Solicitors 46 Brown Street Manchester Eng-
land.
The said THOMAS DIXON GEORGE DIXON and
DOROTHY MORSE were formerly of the town of Lan-
caster England and emigrated to Australia together with
the first husband of the said DOROTHY MORSE whose
name was HENRY PEDDER BREWER and were engaged
for some time mining near Inglewood Victoria.
The said DOROTHY MORSE was last heard of from
Kurting near Inglewood aforesaid in the year 1908.
A son of the said DOROTHY MORSE by her marriage
with HENRY PEDDER BREWER is said to have mar-
ried a daughter of Mr. LETTS of Kurting and to have
died leaving a widow and children.
The said THOMAS DIXON was last heard of in
August 1889 from Geddia Camp Bourke New' South Wales
and it is believed he afterwards left there and proceeded
to Queensland.
The said GEORGE DIXON is said to have been married
and to have proceeded to Queensland and was a Land
Surveyor but it is unknown whether he followed such
occupation.
Dated the 28th day of April 1909.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
BELLHOUSE and SYER,
Solicitors,
46 Brown Street, Manchester.
if
The
Peero Peerless Pill
Admitted by experts to be the Stomach aivd Liver Pill of the
Age, and invaluable for the cure of Anaemia in Women, Debility
in Men, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Flatulence, Gas-
tritis, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Neuralgia, and Costiveness.
“PEERO’ 9
PILLS are
beyond value to
persons living on
farms, shearing-
sheds, cattle-runs,
sheep-stations, or
mining Camps.
They are the best
doctor for the
home, because
they save life and
promote health.
• Will clear Ihe Complexion
Cure Consh’pafionJJizziness. In
digeshon.Headache.and all
Liver Affections.
Price Is.perbox.
DOSE-I-2-fo3Pi!lsat >
■Pmk
horian
'Pafio
Mr. G. NIELL,
commercial tra-
veller, writing
from Hotel Met-
ropole, Sydney,
Feh. 20th, 1909,
says : “Your
‘PEERO’ Pills
are a grand nerve
and appetite
maker. I swear by
them. Theyarein-
valuable for men.”
Australia is noted for the prevalence of serious stomach and liver diseases, caused
by the continuous use of heavy meat foods, and carelessness of diet and eating.
The most serious diseases spring from stomach neglect, leading to expensive
operations. The timely use of “ PEERO ” Pills corrects and strengthens the
stomach, makes new blood, gives nerve force, and keeps the liver healthy, curing
the most chronic cases of constipation rapidly. It is the advance agent of Health
and should be in every home. “PEERO” Pills preserve and prolong life
A SORE CORE for INDIGESTION 8 CONSTIPATION
AN ATHLETE’S TESTIMONY.—MR. W. BARKER,
of King- Street., Newtown, writes: —“I was a
sufferer for years from Constipation so serious that
I looked upon myself as dead. I could never enjoy
a meal. I took ‘ PEERO ’ Pills for four weeks, and
they have made me a new man. Your pills are, in
ni3 r opinion, the best for constipation known.”
MRS. W. RUSSELL, Victoria Street, Darling,
hurst, says “ I was known as the walking ghost
of Darlinghurst, I was so pale and bloodless. I
had anaemia for years, which threatened decline.
Your pills are for women worth their weight in
gold. I HAVE TAKEN A NEW LEASE OF LIFE
since taking ‘ PBERO ’ Pills.”
“ PEEHO ” PILLS may be obtained all Chemists and Grocers, Is.
per box, or direct from the proprietors post free on receipt of price.
The ‘RAY’ CHEMICAL CO
76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N,S.W.
BILLIARDS LTD.
(Phone
J 338 City).
630, 632 and 634 George Street, SYDNEY (near Liverpool Street).
25 Full-Size
AlcocK Tables.
Several Private Rooms, which can be engaged
in advance by a ring on the ’phone.
Take All You Can!
—and keep all you can’t be forced to give up.
In buying bicyles, get hold of a good one, and
stick to it.
THE B. and B. MODEL 3 CYCLE £ll
is a beauty. Fitted with first-class tyres, and
guaranteed for a year.
Our 1909 Catalogue is Free.
Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest Oyele-buildin
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagti Street, Sydney.
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from—
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
The Leading Veterinary
Supply Store.
Amusements.
MELBA,
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR, 1909
(Under direction of John Lemmone).
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, JUNE 5.
QUEENSLAND—
Commencing at BRISBANE, JUNE 26.
V M. C. A. HALL, SYDNEY,
1 * TUESDAY, 22nd JUNE.
FLORENCE MENKMEYER,
SOPRANO and PIANISTE.
Surnamed bv the Russian and Parisian Press,
“THE SECOND LISZT.”
HIGHLY GIFTED DRAMATIC SOPRANO.
55., 35,, and 2s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening at 7.45 sharp.
THE J. C. WILLIAMSON
GRAND ANNUAL CARNIVAL ATTRACTION.
JACK AND JILL
OUTSHINES ALL ITS PREDECESSORS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling s.
jHE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THE AT RESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, Mevnell & Gunn Season.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 5,
GRAND REVIVAL of the World’s Most Popular Play,
THE FATAL WEDDLNG,
in which those Pronounced Sydney Favorites,
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS
will appear, supported by a Specially Selected
Company, and the famous TIN CAN RAND.
Plan at Elvy’s WMCKS AS USUAL.
lALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
ghtly at S ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & fid. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
QLACIA R I U M, SYDN E Y.
REAL ICR - SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY—-10 to 12 a.m., 3to 5 p.m.,
and 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 25. ; CHILDREN, Morning and Afternoon
onl\\ Is. SKATE HIRE, 6d.
SATURDAY MORNlNG—Children, Admission 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, George St., opp. Railway Station.
’Phone 492, Glebe. Dunbak Poolk, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, Prince of Jugglers.
G. W. HUNTER and MDLLE. DESIREE.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Quaint Comedians and Dancers.
FLORENCE and LILLIAN, Artistic Musical Experts.
DALE and O’MALLEY, Cross Talk Comedians.
MISS CISSIE CURLETTE, Mimic and Quaint Vocalist.
MR. JAY RYAN, Baritone.
GRAHAM AND DENT, Popular Comedians.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at, Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. CULL PITT, a Droll Deceptionist, assisted by
Mdlle ADELE, in a Pot-pourri of Tricks, Talk, etc.
THE SISTERS SPRIGHTLY, Comedienne Dancers.
R. H. DOUGLASS, Monologue Entertainer.
TOM WOOTTWELL, Comedian.
THE LAURELS, Ping Pong Table Act.
Plan at Allan’s. it2T PRICES —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
MELBOURNE.
EAT RE ROYAL,
A NOTABLE ATTRACTION.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 5,
MEYNELL & GUNN’S NEW ENGLISH COMPANY
IN
THE HYPOCRITES.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6<i, Is. Plan at Allan’s.
g_j£R MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, JUNE 3, FRIDAY, JUNE 4,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of AN ENGLISHMAN’S HOME.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 5,
A SPECIAL REVIVAL OF
THE SILVER KING.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, JUNE 3. FRIDAY, JUNE 4,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE MAN FROM OUTBACK.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 5,
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation,
THE BANK _ OF ENGLAND.
Written by Max Goldberg.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
A THEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
Mr. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE presents his
NEW ENGLISH COSTUME CONCERT COMPANY,
The Scarlet Troubadours.
Humor—Pathos —Comedy—Romance —Burlesque—Oper-
atic Travesties —Vocal Quartets— Lightning Cartoons and
Fancy Dancing.
POPULAR PRICES : 35., 2s. and Is. Early Doors, 6d.
extra. Box Plan now open at Glen’s. Day Sales at
Glen’s and Ronalds’ Central.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT.
THE KING OF WINTER SPORTS
RESUMES lI'IS REIGN AT
TIIE GLACIAPiIUM,
. MELBOURNE,
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 5,
AT THREE O’CLOCK.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THE Stall.
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
' PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
s‘ /\N THE HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Ef Sale—2/6 ; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
' Street, Sydney. /
RAMESTB
MEDICATOR
CURES: Catarrh, Deaf-
ness, Hay Fever, Asth-
ma, Neuralgia,- Head-
ache, and Diseases of
Nose, Throat arid Ear.
Price, 10s. post free,
Includes Medicator, In-
halent, and Ointment,
with full directions. If
required, extra Inhalent
2S. 6d., Ointment is.
Illustration shows the
Medicator used in two
ways—blowing into the
nostrils, and inhaling.
Briefly, Catarrh is inflammation of the lining membrane
of the nose and adjoining passages. If the inflammation is
not arrested it invades the ears, throat and lungs, des .*oys ,
tlie senses of taste and smell; impairs the sight and hear.ng ;
causes baldness and rots away the frontal bones of the skull.
Dyspepsia and Consumption can also be direct y traced as
starting from the catarrhal discharges. Ihe Ramey Medl-
cator is designed to treat the affected parts by direct applica-
tion By its use, medicated air is s owiy forced through the
nostri's and head and into the lungs. Our inhalent is a disin-
fectant containing carbolic acid. Long-standing cases of
Catarrh, Deafness, Headache, Asthtoa, Neuralgia, Coughs,
Bronchitis, Colds, La Grippe, etc., yield readily to the heal-
ing properties of our treatment. It kills the germs and re-
stores normal conditions. It is a well-known fact that our
method of treating catarrh and kindred ailments is endorsed
by thousands who have used it. Why pay a specialist a large
sum of money for doubtful results when you can cure yourself
by tills simple home treatment? The Ramey Medicator is
highly nickel plated, and should last a lifetime. The medicine
is put on a sponge in the enlarged part °f the Medicator, be-
tween the mouthpiece and nose tubes. Full directions with
everv instrument. Send ios. postal ijote to the Sole Agents
?or Australasia; STAR NOVELTY CO.. 229 Colli. I Street,
Melbourne.


GIFTS THAT PLEASE THE MOST.
A Handsome Piece of A. SAUNDERS’ TABLE SILVER is
Always Acceptable, and it is the most Permanently
Useful and Satisfactory Gift you can make.
The following give a hint of the values we
offer. Rich, tasteful, and substantial, they
ably represent our high quality at economy
prices.
Your selection will be carefully packed to
ensure safe delivery, and sent carriage free
to any address in Australasia. Write for
our 304-page Illustrated Catalogue.
lira
A. SAUNDERS.
Souvenir EMU EGG, Hand-curved, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Ebonised Wood Base. Height,
10J inches. 207-
Other Styles 10/6, 15/6, 30/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
FLOWER VASE, Eure
Silver-plated, detachable
Tube, Gilt Lined, bin
high. 5/6-
Other Styles, 4/6, 7/6,
10/6.
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Hand-
somely Embossed Base.
<£2/-/-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
!d£.l£
fIEII
aasin
LlUt
BREAKFAST CRUET,
3-Bottle, Fine Cut
Crystal Glass Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated.
12/6
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6,
15/, 17/0.
BISCUIT
Handsomely
Size, llin x
A. SAUNDERS.
BOX, Self-acting' Lid, Pure Silver-plated,
Embossed and Fluted, Oval or Round.
9in.
Other
£3/-/-
Styles, £4/4/,
£5/5.
HOT-WATER KETi'i... and
STAND, Pure Silver-plated. A 1
Quality, Rustic Stand, Richly
Embossed.
Plain, 35/. Other Styles, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
£4/4/-
PRESENTATION TEA and COFFEE SERviUE, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, comprising
Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream, Richly Engraved, Gilt-lined, with Covers. £4/4/. Made expressly for
us by James Dixon and Sons.
Other Styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £2O, to, £5O.
£4/4/-
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR, Fine Cut Crys-
tal Glass, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Frame,
2g/.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6,
15/, 17/6.
BREAD or CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Ivory Handle, Din long.
7/6
Other Styles. 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, S/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Pure Sil-
ver-plated . Nickel Silver,. A 1 Quality.
Gilt Lined, “Water Lily” Design.
£2/-/-
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
FERjN POT, Pure Silver-
piatejl, Richly' Fluted and Em-
bossed. Size, 4in.
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
PALT-POURRR, Pure
SMver-mounted, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass.
3/6 ,
Cther Styles, 5/6,
6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
msm
MS
m
-• S
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE, FRUIT, or CHEESE DISH, with SERVER,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Base, Fine .
Cut Crystal Glass Dish.
25/.
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
SPECIMEN TUBE, Pure
Silver-plated, Gilt Lined,
Weighted Base. Height,
6in, 4/6 ; 6Jin, 5/6; 7in,
6/6; 7iin, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN and SIFTER. Pure Silver-
plated, Richly Fluted, Gilt Lined, it/n
Other' Styles, lu/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/. 10/ »
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG STAND, 2 Cups and Spoons/ Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Gilt, Richly
Fluted.
25/.
Other Styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
SSMMmMUHIIIhi
mm
m,
: ilil
PRESENTATION FRUIT and FLOWER EPERGNE,
Pure Silver-plated Nielfel Silver, Richly Orna-
mented Base, Fine < ut Crystal Glass.
Height, 21in.
j£3/-/-
Other Styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5, to £l5.
PRESENTATION DINNER CRUET, 6-Bottle,
Fine, Cut Crystal Glass Bottles, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality.
£3/-/-
Other Styles, 30/ 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 70/, 80/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Handle.
Embossed, Finest Sheffield Steel Blade.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
Richly
8/G .
A. SAUNDERS.
JUVENILE MUG, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Gilt Lined.
15/6
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6,
10/.
nvmruuuumamin ttmmm
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, Stag Design, Pure Silver-plated,
25/-
Handsomeiv Engraved, Fine Out Crystal Glass
Bottle. Size, 9in x 6in.
Other Styles;, 35/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, Ruby or Light Green Glass
Dish.
207-
Other Styles, 10/6, 13/6, 15/, 17/6.
SALT - SHAKER,
Pure Silver Top,
Fine Cut Crystal
Glass Base.
3/6
Salt-pourer to Match,
3/6.
NSSS;
1' .
“’ J r. rr. - £ !-i j-£] ?rj sc* "' r ' T : - -
■SaM!
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Sil-
ver, Hand-engraved Lid and Base, Crystal Glass
Dish.
9/6
A 1 Quality, 10/6.
gra
A. SAUNDERS.
“GONDOLIER” PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver Frame, Milled Glass Dish.
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Carlton China Base.
207-
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6,
10/6, 12/6.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


A Premo is the Camera You Want
We briefly describe here a few of the famous Premo Cameras. They are compact, simple and durable, give wonderful results
on all classes of work, and are so made that they will accommodate the Premo Film Pack as well as plates.
This is a marked advantage to the owner, who practically has the equivalent of two cameras—plate and film. Made by
the Eastman Company, the Premos are thoroughly reliable, being built to give lasting and good service. For other styles than those
we mention, we refer you to the Premo Catalogue, which will be sent post free on request. Call on us if you possibly can.
£
■
IB
Pony Premo No. 1
Absolutely the best value in a 4 x 5 plate
camera ever offered at the price. It is
strongly made, all metal parts are nickelled,
the lens is an excellent R.R., and the
covering of grain leather.
It has rising and falling front, reversible
brilliant finder, single valve automatic
shutter, and weighs but 240 z.
The price of the camera, complete with
case and one double plate-holder, is
£2 10s
Pony Premo No. 3
This camera has all the advantages of the
preceding models, with the addition of rack
and pinion focussing attachment, longer
extension, and double valve automatic
shutter.
These advantages make the instrument a
very desirable one for those amateurs
wishing for a camera with broad scope of
work at moderate price.
Made in two sizes, with case and 1
double plate-holder :
5x4
£4 ss.
Ij-plate
£5 lOs.
Pony Premo No. 2
This has the same general characteristics
as the Pony Premo No. 1, but has the
additional advantage of reversible back —
an important consideration to many
amateurs. The back can be instantly re-
versed for horizontal or vertical pictures,
so that it is not necessary to change the
position of the camera itself for either style
of pictures.
This model can be supplied in two sizes,
as follows, complete with case and 1 double
plate-holder :
5x4
£3
l-plate
£3 17s - 6d.
Pony Premo No. 4
This camera is designed for a wider range
of work than its predecessors. It is pro-
vided with additional equipment of swing
back, planatograph lens and the new auto-
matic standard clamp. The lens is the
best obtainable outside anastigmats. The
camera box is of leather covered mahogany,
with rack and pinion on the bed for tine
focussing. It has the rising and falling
front, a hooded brilliant reversible tinder,
and two tripod sockets.
Made in two sizes, with case and 1
double plate-holder:
5x4 2-plate
£5 £6 15s.
The postage on any of these Cameras will be 1/9 in the State ; 2/8 Inter-State.
sm -a
i tel
.
m
Baker & Rouse Propty. Ltd.,
Sole Agents for
Australian Kodak Ltd .
375 & 377 QEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
‘THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
CONSTIPATION AND BILIOUSNESS
Removed by Rutnow’s Powder.
NO functions are more frequently disturbed than those of digestion. Although not dangerous in
themselves, such disturbances nevertheless interfere with the active duties of life, and render
us less able to resist the various forms of disease, so that their consideration becomes of vast
importance. There is nothing more injurious in its effects than undue retention of food in the
stomach. The regular use of Kutnow’s Powder prevents such disturbances and acts as a safeguard
against disease. Kutnow’s Powder is a universal remedy for Constipation, Biliousness and Liver
Troubles. We ask you to try its merits at once, and you will never regret the trial.
AN EFFICIENT REMEDY.
All debris left from imperfectly digested food becomes
poisonous and vitiates the blood. Kutnow s Powder
entirely removes these poisons from the system.
The symptoms of constipation are frequently exhibited
in the appearance of pimples, boils, skin blotches, and
other bodily disfigurements.
Nervous headache, despondency, brain-fag, insomnia,
and even insanity can frequently be traced to this baneful
irregularity.
Kutnow’s Powder permanently removes Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, and all stomach troubles.
How to Avoid Fraudulent Substitutes.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all conscientious Chemists throughout
the World. See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow & Co., Ld., ’ and the
registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung 1 , or Deer Leap,” are on the package and
bottle. This is
How to get Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
MAKES YOU HEALTHY.
H. C. MOFFATT, Esq.,
WRITES :
" Boy ton Manor, Codford, Wilts, January 17,1908.
“ Thanks for your parcel of seven bottles of Kutnow’s
Powder, which I received this morning, and I am much
obliged to you for sending it off so promptly. I have
used this Powder for some years, and find its effects are
most beneficial —in fact, I am hardly ever without it.
I can fully recommend it as being the best aperient
powder I know of, as its action is not violent, while it is
invariably the same, and can always be relied on.”
Nurse WILLETT
WRITES :
“11 Stockmar Hoad, Hackney, N-.E., January 3rd, 1908.
“ I gave Kutnow’s Powder to a lady who was suffering
from indigestion and constipation in a very bad form.
After taking a few doses she was very much relieved. I
shall speak most highly of it to others who are suffering.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO,, LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.


The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite
with mothers everywhere,*
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is pleasant to take has made it a favorite
with mothers everywhere.*
FINNEY’S
TAILOR-MADE
GOWNS.
UR Ladies’ Tailor, M. Franck,
came to us from Vienna. He
has had long experience in such
great houses as Worth’s and Pac-
quin’s, which is a guarantee—were
any other but Finney’s needed—that
his work is irreproachable.
There is no other house in Aus-
tralia that can make such tailor-
mades as are made by us at The
Big Block, and, if it could, its prices
would be much higher than those
charged by us.
May we send you samples of. the
new materials ?
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE 810 BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
“San Remo”: Re “Federal extrava-
gance.” I had occasion, last week in Brisbane,
to visit the rooms of the State and Federal Elec-
toral Registrars. I found the State personage,
with his staff of two, housed in a large, cool, com-
fortable room in the basement of the Treasury
buildings. At the other end of these buildings, iii
a dingy, dirty little cupboard, or dog-box, stacked
up to the ceiling with dead furniture, sat the
extravagant Federal official. No, he didn’t sit;
he was hustling about all the time working. That,
is, if it was really the Registrar I saw there. I’m
not saying anything against the State manage-
ment, but I couldn’t help contrasting the accom-
modation for the two officers. I suppose it would
be an infringement of State Rights for all Elec-
toral work to be done in the one office by the one
set of officers, the Commonwealth and the State
dividing the cost.
Kaimakam (Lieutenant-Colonel) Drury Bey,
whom the Khedive of Egypt has honored and de-
corated, is the young Queenslander, W. B. Drury,
who joined the Britannia as a cadet in 1889. In
the two score years which have elapsed since then,
Drury has done many things. He commanded a
gunboat during the time that the Mahdi was
causing unpleasantness. Eight years ago he
joined the Egyptian service as a major (blm-
bashi), and afterwards became Controller of the
harbors of the Soudan. When the Pharaoh
Government wanted a big scheme of im-
provement undertaken, it entrusted Drury
with the job. When he finished his work the
other day—including the construction of great
buildings for the officials, quays, power stations,
warehouses, army stores, docks, and other
sundries—the Governor-General declared it “to
be a scheme of which civilisation might well be
proud,” and Pharaoh himself made many com-
plimentary remarks. Drury’s connection with
the Soudan is much more of an honor to Australia
than was the celebrated billy-goat expedition of
long ago.
Charleville had a day’s racing recently,
and some queer things happened thereat. The
first race passed off quietly enough, but in the
next one the owner of the nag which ran second
persuaded the -stewards to hold an inquiry into
the velocity of his moke, with the result that the
jockey was suspended for the rest of the meeting.
In the third race the crowd made a deuce of a fuss
because the favorite—he was a red-hot favorite,
too —-was scratched. The rider of another horse
was caught in the starting barrier and carried the
tapes of the concern round his neck throughout
the race. In the fourth scurry a jockey was sent
away from the starting post for talking back at
the starter —he was subsequently sent up for two
years—and the start of the' race was delayed
while a less verbose rider was hunted up. In the
last race the first and second horses were found to
have carried 141 b. lightweight, and it was after-
wards discovered that the scales had been tam-
pered with. It was a busy, day, taking one thing
with another.
The organised Scotchbyterians are up
against a nice old score before Gent One is satis-
fied, and they have nothing but a bad taste in
their mouths to show for their recent riotous
times in legal compam’. It happened this way :
The governing body deposed rough, sturdy old
Dr. Fraekleton, the shepherd at the Ann-street
kirk, Brisbane—most Brisbane streets seem to be
named after women ; you can find every kind
of female street there except Flossie-st. Fraekleton
took it fighting, and the scrap he put up, with the
Holy Book under his arm and the tail of his
clerical costume streaming in the wind—well, the
father' of all dog fights was nothing to it. He
beat the organised body in the Supreme Court,
then in the Full Court, and afterwards
in the High Court. After two years’ rest,
caused by the great affection existing between a
number of these shepherds, the doctor is back in
LOST.—AT A SUNDAY-SCHOOL
PICNIC.
THE P ARSON: “James, have you seen
the curate?”
JAMES : “ Yes, sir.”
P ARSON: “ Well, here's a penny,
go and tell him I want him."
JAMES: “ Please, sir, he's
where we were just
now. He gave us
sixpence to go
away.”
his old pulpit. His was a great victory. The
democratic element is with him to almost a man.
Ecclesiastical tyranny is not the mildest animal
on the earth, and it takes its defeat unkindly.
The most galling point to the doctor’s enemies is
that the mouldy A nn-street church, so close to
the swagger pile in Wickharn-street, still remains
open and retains its adherents. The newer and
more shiny tabernacle should draw them away,
but it doesn’t.
Died, at Oxley, near Brisbane, on May 7,
aged 78, W. M. Davidson, atone time Surveyor-
General of Queensland. He came to Australia
from the Cold Country in 1857, and got the billet
of inspecting surveyor of Southern Tasmania.
Four years later he went to Queensland to get
comfortably warm, and was appointed a second-
class surveyor. He climbed up till, in 1875, he
was Deputy Surveyor-General, and after holding
that position for 14 years he became Surveyor-
General. He retired on a pension in 1891, being
dead tired of surveying and filled with a desire not
to survey any more. Anybody who has surveyed
a great deal knows how the weary, blessed,
anguished horribleness of surveying gets on your
nerves.
“Boro-Belle ”:, There seems to be a
chance of the banana-growing industry in
Northern Queensland becoming a white man’s
concern. As the outcome of the direct steam
service between Fiji and Melbourne, a number of
the Chow growers propose turning their attention
to the islands. . Already it is said a company is
being formed at Hongkong, with a number of
shareholders in the bottom end of the Common-
wealth, to give the thing a start. This should
relieve Bananaland of a proportion at least of its
Chow contingent. And since it is a well-known
fact that a couple of years banana-growing makes
rich soil of worn-out sugar-cane lands, the
probability is that banana-growing and cane will
be combined in one imposing and profitable job.
Caliban.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If Premier Ividston gets his way, Bananaland’s Dawson
Valley, a province as big as Scotland, will shortly be
roused to life by a railway. There are soil resources in
the Dawson Valley sufficient to keep busy all the primary
producers of Bananaland ; coal deposits enough to whirl
all the industrial wheels of the Continent: and enough
trees, unless the community is an incurable tree-eater, to
supply a nation. Mount Morgan can utilise coal to the
extent of 50,000 tons a year as soon as the Government is
ready to supply the article from the State mines. For
that reason the line will go through Mount Morgan and
down the Dee Valley, and then rush into the centre of
the new country, and there raise the industrial devil.—■
Tub Bulletin.
WHEN the foul Silurian’s roar by a reek-
ing primal shore.
Rolled in echoes o’er the slime ;
In the fibre, leaf and bole, was the ebon devil coal
Pinioned down—to bide his time.
In the wrinkled, crumbling crust, in the planetary
dust,
As the aeons came and went,
Under fossil, flesh and bone, under basalt, quartz
and stone
Were the future forces pent.
Came a restless, biped Thing, who, with neither
claw nor wing,
Nor prehensile thumb, nor tail,
From a crawling decapod had evolved into a
god,
By selection, fe-and-male.
And this furless freak called Man, through a
score of cycles ran,
With his Body and his Soul ;
Till the cynic touch of Time, from its matrix in
the slime
Bade the Oenius forth, of Coal.
’Twas a gentle devil first, showing neither lust nor
thirst
For its master’s bones and blood ;
Twas a sooty, smoky slave, which an humble
service gave,
As a colored servant should.
But the Black Djin waxed in might till the whole
world, day and night,
From the Thames to Timbuctoo,
In its thought and sinew strived, fashioned,
fancied and.contrived—
Just to find him work to do.
And the kings of all the seas, cities* states and
dynasties,
Were compelled to seek his aid,
For without it there was not e’en a housewife’s
cooking pot,
Or a scholar’s schoolbook made.
From the Nasmyth to the nail, from the silk
thread to the sail,
■ Serving Sanctity or Sin,
There Was nothing made or done, any more beneath
the sun,
Save by virtue of the Dj in.
On a million altars red must his deity be fed
By a countless human horde.
From a smoke-enveloped throne; rules a kingdom
of his own,
This potential overlord.
And his mantle, like a pall, sables cities : and the
thrall
Of his burden heavy lies. .
On the blackened, barren fields; and his iron
presence shields
| The expanses of the skies.
From his prison in the slime at the cynic touch
of Time,
He hath broken strong and whole :
And a furless freak called Man is enslaved to
Caliban, 1
To a Caliban called—Coal.
victoria.
E. J. BRADY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 29, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Chelmsfords have departed, and we are
without any Governor save for the weighty
Arthur Morgan, who never did, and never will,
look the part. Wednesday was a perfect day, and
the shock of finding the Government House
menaye doing anything except in a downpour of
rain was almost too much for us. The Chelms-
ford Lord is the surest rain-bringer ever imported
to Queensland. He came in a deluge, and the
rain has rained on him ever since. lam told that
there is an idea of creating a new State in the
middle of Australia to cover all the dry area, and
making Chelmsford perpetual Governor at a very
large salary, in order to abolish drought and cause
the wilderness to blossom like the rose.
The streets were lined with the most minute
cadets available, and their Exes, motored down in
two sections. The grimy old Boundary-street
wharf was in holiday clothes of palms and
bunting for the occasion. There was the usual
pen or stall for the official folk, and a single
charity committee turned up with a bookay. All
this was backed by the scarlet-coated Moreton
Regiment, in guard-of-honor rig. Lady Chelms-
ford, flanked by private-secretary Newton, came
first in a cream cloth wrapping, much braided,
and topped by a black hat. She also wore the
lately acquired jewels. The infants were in
cream. On the gang plank the travellers were
met by Captain Smith. (The world is full of
Smiths.) Then there were cheers, and the hand
played “Old Long Since,” and the vessel plodded
down the river.
His Ex. looked) a-weary. Poor man, he had
consumed, under compulsion of circumstances,
mine dinners during the last seven days, and I
understand that his love of the heaving deep is of
a purely theoretical character.
The smileful Yerney was as correct and cheery
as ever in his heavenly uniform, with the astrachan
lid that is glued on behind. Faithful to the last,
he spread a scarlet parasol over her Ladyship and
brought a bright reflection to her pallid cheek.
Yerney, A.D.C., had a birthday on Tuesday, on
which occasion he must have been “ twenty-two
at least,” like John Oliver Hobbes’s very young
widow. The Governor made mention of his aide’s
increasing age at the Queensland Club dinner,
and that modest person arose and thanked Heaven
standing that there was “ a law of the Medes and
Persians ” that kept an aide dumb in the presence
of his chief.
A lonely figure as the Cooma pulled out was'
Frank Newton, who, I understand, gives up the
Private Secretary biz at an early date and goes in
for sheep.
Two engagements have been announced: : this
week. The first concerns Dr. Eric Molle and
Miss Bell No. 2, of Cdochin Coochin station ; and
the second has to do with Miss Evelyn de Winton
and Mr. Fletcher, secretary of the Q.M.E. Co.
The usual clawings and scratching in connection
with the Private Assembly Balls are once more
the chief topic over the tea cup and its accom-
panying saucer. The first of these gatherings
(with about 20 partners short) proved a dull, if
exclusive, entertainment on Tuesday evening.
Despite this lack of man (so a pal of mine tells me),
the lady dictator at the head of affairs continues
to veto any further men that the members sug-
gest, merely, it would seem, because they have
failed to kowtow at her particular court. Thecom-
mittee and members meanwhile appear to be too
panic-stricken to realise that they are paying for
the room and supper, while the lady in charge in-
vites just those guests whom she feels disposed to
entertain.
Never before was there such a gathering of
frills at Ascot as upon Empire Day (Monday).
The weather was hysterical at first, but cheered
up and came out in its blue frock about noon, and
the chiffons and silks got home dry. Mrs. Arthur
Feez, Mrs. Abraham Hertzberg, Mrs. Tully and :
Mrs. Quinan (a South African visitor) were among
the most effective frockers. None of the fancied
noddies got nearer than third. Even with double
dividends upon the tote, the situation was not
cheerful, and some of the family plate may have
to be sacrificed. Ladies now have a tote window
all to themselves, and it is screened off from the
other windows ; therefore the man who is putting
his money on a stiff horse doesn’t know that his
wife is wasting het substance on an even worse
animal just around the corner.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
“ Leo Lear ” : Two of Kidston’s Ministers
reckon they have discovered anew Darling Downs
in the Upper Burnett. But the rival ports,
“Mer’boro’ ” and “Bundy,” knowing the possi-
bilities of the district, have been advocating
the extension of the existing Western lines
through this rich area for some time past. Sur-
veys from both Gayndah and Mount Perry are
now proposed; so. presumably, the sea-board
towns are satisfied. The area of the Upper
Burnett country is greater than that of the Downs,
and the rainfall is about the same. Furthermore,
at present the country round Eidsvold is practi-
cally free of pear, but scattered clumps are
appearing in odd places. If settlement comes
along quickly this portion of the State may be
saved from the prickly curse. But consider its
position, with the pearopolis of Gayndah on the
south and that of Taroom on the west, and the:
need for haste is apparent. Judging from past
experience, the big leaseholders will do nothing to
check or clear the cactus anathema. Improve-
ments with this class of “settler” consist in the
main of ringbarking while he is on the lease, and
when' his term expires of “ringing in” to the
Government any old bill for improvements as
long As it is in excess of costs actually incurred.
The banks of the Burnett, from Gayndah to below
Gin Gin sugar mill, are a mass of every plant
curse known—pear, Nogooraburr, Bathurst ditto,
“stinking Rodger ” (none too aristocratic a name,
but “quite good enough for the blanky thing,” as
the cocky says), wild cotton, various thistles, etc.
On the Upper Burnett there are long stretches of
beautiful grassy banks free of all these, and the
powers that ought to be should see they are kept
clear.
The equipment of arms and ammunition for the
Roosevelt-Smithsonian African Expedition embraces
guns suitable for shooting all kinds of gariie, from birds
and small animals to the big and dangerous armor-skinned
rhino. For hunting the latter, the party will rely on
Winchester .405 calibre repeaters, known as the Model
1895, which are the most powerful repeating rifles made.
They will shoot a steel patched bullet through about 50
inches of pine wood, or a half-inch steel plate, and no
animal living can withstand a shot from one of these
gans. For less dangerous game, rifles of the same make
and model, but handling .30 Government Model 1903 car-
tridges, will be used. For small animals the party is pro-
vided with Winchester .22 calibre Automatic rifles.
These guns are reloaded by their recoil, it being only
necessary, to pull the trigger for each shot. For birds,.
Winchester Repeating Shotguns, 12 gauge, shooting- six
shots, will be used. These repeaters are calculated to
stand rough, hard use, as they bear the stamp of approval
of the U.S. Ordnance Board for streng'th, safety and re-
liability. _ A big assortment of Winchester ammunition of
various kinds and sizes was, of course, provided for the
different guns, making the equipment complete in every
detail.*
An N.Q. industry that would bound ahead
kangaroo-like,, if there were no shipping com-
bines, is the timber business. On the ranges all
along the coast, and particularly behind Mackay
and Cairns, are to be found abundant forests of
pine, cedar, boxwood, silky oak, etc. But beyond
what is used for local requirements none of it can
be used for export, since timber can be landed in
Melbourne from oversea for 275. fid. per 1000 ft.,
whereas the cartage of it from Cairns to Melbourne
costs from 50s. to 60s. The proposed Rook-
hampton-Cairns railway would prove the salva-
tion of the splinter trade, while it would also lure
various other concerns into the dazzling limelight
that beats upon success.


FROM THE BUSH SCHOOL TO OXFORD
UNIVERSITY.
Queensland has the finest educational system in
the world. Itsfihief merits lie in these facts: —■
1. Education is free, secular and compulsory.
2. There are bursaries and scholarships which
take the boy or girl of talent forward.
3. From the primary and other schools. 36
scholarships and 50 district scholarships
are awarded annually at the expense of the
State, giving three years Grammar School
training.
If.. Three scholarships are awarded annually,
at the expense of the State, which take the
winner to the splendid universities of
Sydney or Melbourne.
5. One Rhodes Scholarship is given annually to
a Queensland scholar. Five have already
been given; so five Queenslanders arc at
Oxford University, with .£3OO a year for
maintenance.
Queensland To-day: The Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXII.
EDUCATION IN QUEENSLAND.
By J. D. FITZGERALD.
The prospective European emigrant who has
“ given hostages to fortune ” will, doubtless,' bring
carefully into bis discussion of the proposed change
of territory the welfare of his children. The
parents who are imbued with the idea of bettering
themselves by migration to a new country, in
which the pressure of population is light and the
opportunities are many, would be encouraged in
making their determination by a knowledge that
the State to which they are going takes an intimate
and painstaking care for the welfare and advance-
ment of the children. If Democracy means equal
opportunities, if not equal division of wealth
or abilities, then the initial steps in child-
life—the preparation for . the stern realities
of the world—being taken in the schools,
it is the duty of the Government to pro-
vide schools in the most remote districts, to see
that the children go to school, and to secure the
very best conditions in those schools in order that
the State scholars may work under the most favor-
able circumstances for their advancement. This
duty the State has undertaken-; and it has carried
.it out with such zeal and success that there is no
institution of which the Queensland people have
so much reason to be proud, or of which the
Government might so justifiably boast, as the
State School and Educational System.
In Queensland, education has three basic rules
which differentiate the system from that which
prevails in England. In the latter country the
chief burden of education is on the municipal
bodies. The cost of education is paid out of the
rates, a special rate being imposed in most cases
STATE SCHOOL, NEW FARM, BRISBANE.
Showing the design which makes the work practically out-of-doors.
THE HIGHER EDUCATION.—GIRLS' GRAMMAR SCHOOL, BRISBANE.
for educational purposes. Besides these municipal
schools the various religious denominations have
their school systems ; and there appear to be
irremovable causes of dissatisfaction in this mode
of splitting up a system which should be co-
ordinate and harmonious. The dissatisfaction
vexes Parliament, and this is now the one sphere
of political action in which Englishmen are not
able to smooth matters by compromise. Where
education is divided up between the State,
the municipalities, the churches, private
and so-called “public schools,” and privately-
endowed universities, it can never, we claim,
reach that pitch of perfection which it reaches in
democratic Queensland, nor can the children of
the English poor ever have those opportunities
which the Queensland children have—opportuni-
ties which may lead to any station, even the
highest, in the land. And the Queensland system
does not work to perfection in theory alone.
Many instances may be quoted ; one will suffice.
As a wise State, which is not obsessed by the
doctrine of “ Laissez faire, laissez aller," it looks
eagerly for the budding signs of eminent ability
which some day may reward the State for all the
State does'to develop it. I suppose the ideal
State would be regarded as that m which every
industrious and talented boy and girl would have
the fullest opportunity of developing their natural
brain power, with a skilful supervision that would
judge the fittest groove in which that ability would
work, and bend it that way early ; and with no
pecuniary obstacles interposed between the bril-
liant student and the goal of his or her ambition.
We have no expansive philanthropists so far ir.
Australia—at least, not to the extent of the
Oarnegies and Rockefellers. But there have
been some. The Universities of Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide have been benefi-
cently endowed by benefactors of private
wealth (the University of Queensland has yet
to be built, though its establishment has been
decided upon); but the primary schools—the
State schools —have to depend upon the State for
bursaries and scholarships to enable the brilliant
boys and girls to go forward on their conquering
careers.
In Queensland, the State, though it has not had
the auxiliary beneficence of a Challis. a Russell,
an Ormond, or an Elder to rely upon, has bridged
every chasm a clever boy or girl has to cross up to
the highest university training in the Common-
wealth, with the prospect of the Rhodes scholarship
to take the student on to the time-honored
school of learning—Oxford. Think of it! The
son of the least-paid workman in Queensland to-
day may, if he has the native ability, aspire to a
studentship, with ample means, at Oxford Uni-
versity^—one of the imtnemorial schools of Europe
since ' the dawn of modern learning. Every
laborer or mechanic in Queensland —the poorest
in the land—has this priceless knowledge,
viz, that the opportunities which were de-
nied him—opportunities of culture, of pro-
A COUNTRY SCHOOL.
YOUNG QUEENSLAND. —These children are happy specimens of the free life of the
Australian Bush.
fessional rank, of high mental training
are in the gift of the State to his son —if that son
has natural ability and the energy to handle
successfully the means at his disposal.
And on the example of Democracy in every
country in the world, we know that there is no
royal monopoly of talent. It is just as likely to
be born in the son of the farm laborer, battling for
daily bread in the fields, as in the child who draws
his first breath—
In the perfumed chambers of the great
Under the canopies of costly State.
The singular substance of the brain which decides
the future career of the man and gives the quali-
ties of talent and genius, cannot be pre-determined
by the environment of the cradle. But the oppor-
tunities which mean the upward rise of that
talent, its discovery, its development, its nurture,
its fruition—all these may be predetermined by
the agencies of Democracy ; and that is where the
State school system of Queensland excels the
British system, inasmuch as it regards as a sub-
stantial asset of ascertainable value the grey
matter of the brain of its talented children, and it
seeks to encourage and develop the peculiar
talents from their first budding.
The instance: A few years ago a child of
humble Irish parents, at a State school, began
BOXING DAY SPORTS.
Taken at Mount Elliott, Cloncurry District, in the “unendurable ” Queensland climate.
Photo, by J. Backwood.
to attract the notice of his teachers. Few nation-
alities are so avid for the education of their off-
spring as the Irish colonist, and the parents of
this child, in obedience to their instinct, sent him
to school. But even this was not left to chance.
School attendance in Queensland is compulsory,
and even if the parents had not realised their duty
in the commendable manner in which this lad’s
parents realised it, the State would have forced
them. Then, schooling is free, so another barrier
was removed. And, last of all, State education
is unsectarian, so a third objection, which might
interpose by raising a religious scruple, was re-
moved. The hoy in question won an annual
public school scholarship, which the State pro-
vides (one of a number of such scholarships), and
this took him to the Brisbane Grammar School.
Here his talents were further developed. He won
the gold medal three times, and a trustees’
scholarship. Then he took a high place in the
Sydney and Melbourne University examinations
187 g
His ambition did not halt there. He passed
the senior examination in 1877 with first-class
honors, and with an endowed exhibition went to
the Melbourne University, where he took his
Bachelor’s degrees in arts and law. He returned
to Queensland and began practice at the Bar,
where he rose rapidly through force of ability
trained to the highest perfection in the best
schools, without having cost his parents a penny
for his education. Entering politics, he made his
mark at once, and was appointed Solicitor-General,
then Attorney-General of the State, and finally, he
was chosen leader of his party when he was in his
thirties, and became Prime Ministerof Queensland.
He died in the prime of his manhood, mourned
by the whole Commonwealth, and a statue com-
memorates the career of Thomas Joseph Byrnes,
who, in his person, was living testimony to the
magnificent educational system of his native
State.
Of course, the case of the Hon. T. J. Byrnes
was an exceptional one. But it shows the perfec-
tion of the system. The State nursed its gifted
child to manhood and full intellectual develop-
ment ; and well he repaid it by devoted.service to
its interests and the interests of the people.
Queensland is no country
Where talent, sinks ml merit weens unknown.
Every agency of the State is on the lookout for
talent, to bring it to its highest maturity. Every
agency of the State is organised so that merit
shall not weep unknown. And the impulsive
force is the idea that all these paternal services
which the State bestows will be repaid an hundred-
fold bv the man or woman who succeeds through
the helping hand which State institutions
afforded. It does not fall to the lot of everyone to
have the startling scholastic, legal, and politicsl
career of the late J. T. Byrnes ; but there are
thousands of men to-day in Queensland, outside
politics, who are using’ the talents sharpened and
the merits recognised in the public schools of the
State for the advancement of the State’s interest
in commerce and agriculture, in pastoral and in-
dustrial development, in banking, in shipping,
in medicine, in pedagogy, as well as in politics
and in the municipal and shire councils. These
men are giving back to democratic government
the principal and a thousand per cent, of
interest on the services which a democratic
State did for them. And every man in Britain,
Canada, or the continent of Europe may, at will,
offer to his children all these educational advan-
tages—and without cost to himself—by immigrat-
ing to Queensland. In the United States the
President must be a native of the soil. The future
Premier of Queensland may now be playing in a
London street, on an Irish, Scotch, Canadian, or
French farm, on a Hungarian horse ranch, a
Russian wheat field, or pruning vines with child-
ish hands in an Italian vineyard. We have no
birth-bar to the white races of the world ; and
their citizenship is; neither circumscribed nor han-
dicapped when they arrive on the shores ; of
Queensland.
Now, a word on the details of the Queensland
educational system. At the head of the system is
a Cabinet Minister, called the Secretary for
Public Instruction. There are two main classes
of schools and several subsidiary classes :
1. State (primary) schools.
2. Provisional schools.
3. Half-time schools, in sparsely-populated
areas.
4. Itinerant teachers who visit the outback
settlers’ families, furnish school requisites,
and appoint family instructors.
5. Continuation classes.
G. Technical schools.
7. Grammar schools.
8. Orphanage schools.
9. Rhodes scholarship to Oxford University.
And there might be mentioned here
chat-
-10. There will he a university for Queensland.
Its establishment has already been de-
cided on.
There are 2401 teachers in Queensland, 1152
males, 1249 females, to 105,000 scholars, or an
average of about one teacher to every 43 children.
The utmost care is taken to secure the health of the
scholars, and inspection of teeth, eyes, nose, ears,
and throats of the children will shortly be in opera-
tion. Epidemic disease is at once dealt with, and
isolation insisted upon. The itinerant teachers
referred to above are supplied each with a
buggy and four horses, and travelling from
place to place in remote districts, the mov-
able pedagogue arranges for instruction, either
by a member of the family or by an em-
ployee, and also supplies school requisites and a
synopsis of the course required. The schools
are specially constructed for ventilation, air
space, suitability of site, etc., in order to meet the
climatic conditions of the country. Agricultural
instruction is given, and the Queensland teachers
are interesting themselves in the work. Arbor
Dav is an institution in the schools, and is held
in May each year, when trees are planted and
suitable special lessons are inculcated. Says Mr.
Harry 0. Berry, in an interesting article on
“Child Life”: “Many teachers give practical
lessons in the rudiments of agriculture by culti-
vating experimental plots in the school grounds,
where cereals, vegetables, fruit, etc., are grown,
and lessons given in elementary botany, trench-
ing, fertilising, pruning, grafting and irrigation.
In order to assist the teachers in pursuing this
valuable work, a course of' instruction for head-
teachers and assistants is conducted each year at
the State Agricultural College, Gatton. The
Department of Agriculture co-operates in the
most hearty manner with the Education Depart-
ment in these matters ; seeds and plants are pro-
vided for the schools, valuable prizes are given
for the best-kept and most attractive school
grounds and gardens, the best agricultural and
experimental work, etc.”
There are 10 Grammar Schools, six for boys and
four for girls. Thirty-six State scholarships are
given each year, which give three years’ free
education at these, Grammar Schools, and 50
district scholarships—some of these are for
women. Eight State bursaries are allotted annually,
which give three years’ Grammar-School course
free and £3O per annum for maintenance. Then
there are three exhibitions to the Universities of
Sydney and Melbourne, with £lOO per annum for
maintenance. There is one Rhodes scholarship
every year for Queensland, of £3OO per annum
for three consecutive years at any of the colleges
of Oxford. Five Rhodes scholarships have already-
been awarded.
There is no space left here to describe the tech-
nical education system, the cadet system, which
aims at making' every boy a trained soldier, able
to handle arms, or the agricultural colleges.
These are worthy of separate articles. But
enough has been said here to show how the career
of a man like T. J. Byrnes was made possible
owing to the perfection of the educational
system of which Queenslanders are so justly
proud. And since the day when those
advantages opened a great career to the
dead statesman, further advantages have been
added, so that, when the university is built, there
will be a perfect chain between the home school,
visited occasionally, but at more rapidly recurring
intervals, by the itinerant teacher in his four-horse
trap to the historic college on the banks of the
Tsis.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin S3rew. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £136 10s.
RETURN ANn STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial ff)utual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
•without, Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —-Assuring- £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Ilor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
jjank of Qirtb Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE . - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burris, Phiip &Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. It. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £495(599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 72,500 0 0
£731,601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ——
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the Wm-ld
Upon - all * Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
"t"
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLSREAGH Sr., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BEXN ETl', General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
LADIES’ COSTUMES.
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, lironchitis, etc.
Shipping.
ord
eutscher
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE,
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 695. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Hem Zealand.
SYDNEY T,RANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.006
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504.097
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Hrifi-bt & Co.); J. Campbf.ll-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
June 9.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
July 7.
MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of" Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New Y~ork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec;, &o. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
and < 'onifKf ii Md. t
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Pli/moufh. and
Jjondon.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Steamer.
f*PEIUCLKS.7
*MILTIADES..
a MORAVIAN
f New Steamer. ‘ Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 18sito £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Lihe.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, <fcc., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HO UP AY
A
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cook town, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO,, Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being-:
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2030. ( d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
(Li) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during are payable half-yearly.
currency of loan. (e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
(e) Money may be lent for any term up to on any instalment date; interest to that
31 years. date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are : —(1) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THTS Department makes advances up to £25,000.up0n city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at MoOre Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
.
asaiig ■■■
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
JLJL
SOLID GOLD WATCH PUZZLE.
GREAT OFFER BY A RESPONSIBLE FIRM.
IT CO3TS YOU NOTHING TO TRY.
To ally person who can supply the correct names
of these two well-known English Towns, and
fulfils conditions below, we offer our £0 Lady’s Solid
Gold Watch , fully jewelled, English Government
stamped, as a FREE Gift. (Silver Watches
are presented to Gents.).
Send your attempt on a sheet of paper, together
with stamped addressed envelope for reply, to
FELLOWS & CO., Wholesale Watch Merchants,
Birmingham, England. The winner is required
to purchase a Chain from us to wear with Watch.
The name of this paper must be mentioned.
Prize-winners of last competition were : Miss L. C.
McLamarara, Bartley Crescent, Wayville, S. Aus-
tralia; Mr. D. Gray, Bookabie, W. Coast, Australia.
Banking 1 , &c.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ... ... £1,488,590 12 6
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,260,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,500,000 0 0
£4,248,590 12 6
DIRECTORS :
G. J. Cohen, Esq .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. Jambs Borns, M.L.C.
Auditors : F. W. Hixson, Esq. ; W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager; T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector :
H. H. Massif,.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Sodtar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary : M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Piniiby.
London Office: 18 Birclxin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls'of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something- every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day.
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports#
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. Yongala, June 5 and
July 3.
BRISBANE,
MAC KAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Innamirtjcka, June 5.
S.S. Marloo, June 12.
S.S. VVollovvra, June 19.
Jiest, and Cheapest Itout.e to Hold,fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at thq Company’s Office,
G. S. YUiLL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, C BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION line:
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles of the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing-, the new twin-screw steamer, “ATUA.”
June 22, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCK.
LAND, transhipping at latter port for Sydney,
thence every 28 days ;
or the new twin-screw steamer, “ TOFUA,” leaving
Auckland on June 22 for TONGA, SAMOA and
FIJI to Sydney, every 2S days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTO,” July 6,
thence every four weeks for RARATQNGA and TAHITI,
returning from the latter port to Wellington per
“ MANAPOURI,” allowing a stay of 30 days in Tahiti,
arriving at Wellington, September 2 ;
or per “ MANAPOURI,” leaving Wellington, July 7,
thence every five weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from TAHITI to Auckland per “ HAUROTO,”
allowing a stay at TAHITI of 28 days, arriving at
Auckland August 26. ■
For further information
and descriptive booklet
apply—
to the various offices
in Australasia of
the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED, 259 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE- BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.
5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,400 Tons. T. Priske, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 10th June
, „ „ SYDNEY - - 16th June
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 19th June
„ „ „ ADELAIDE - 24th June
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining- room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL* 1 \ £49 10s - £l3 13s - £lslss ‘ £IT 17s ‘
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by-
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “DORSET.” For further information, illustrated
books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWBAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Go., Ltd., Adelaide.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Cough? and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.


Suffered Incessantly for a Year—
They were Very Large and Pain
was Dreadful—Could Hardly Bear
Clothing—Health Much Impaired.
WAS ABSOLUTELY CURED
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
“I have to thank Cuticura Reme-
dies for completely curing me of one
of the worst attacks of boils it is pos-
sible to imagine. I suffered from
boils incessantly for a year, and I was
so unsuccessful in trying remedy after
remedy that I began to despair of ever
getting my system clear of this dis-
tressing ailment. My shoulder and
back were principally affected. Any
one who has had a single boil knows
how dreadfully painful boils are, so it
will be evident how much I suffered
when I tell you that I had four large
ones. They would be a long time com-
ing up and so very painful all the time
that I could hardly bear my clothes
on. They were very large, one on my
back extending to the size of a five-
shilling piece, while the smallest was
as big as a sixpence. My health suffered
much as the result of the attack and I
got ii)to a very run-down condition.
After I had tried other means without
any benefit, I read of a cure by Cuticura,
and though I had not much faith, I
thought X could not do any harm in
trying Cuticura Soap. So I bought
a tablet and after I had washed the
affected parts a few times I noticed
such a great improvement that I de-
cided I could net do better than try
the whole Cuticura Treatment. I got
the Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Pills,
and my progress from that time was
truly wonderful. A great change for
the better took place almost immedi-
ately and now, well within three months
from when I started with the Soap, I
can pronounce myself absolutely cured.
Cuticura Remedies have got the disease
right out of my system. I am ex-
tremely grateful for the great benefit
I have derived, and I wish most ear-
nestly to recommend Cuticura Remedies
to every one troubled with boils. I
shall never be without Cuticura Soap.
Mrs. E. J. Chapman, 9, Union Square,
New Kent Road, London, S. E., July
15, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
A Single Set often Cutes. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix;
Australia, R. Towns <fc Co.. Sydney: South Africa,
Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; XJ. S. A„ Pottel
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
BIT PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
»*»* themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly erijov GOOD HEALTH.
Our NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
FAT quickly, safely, and per-
manently. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
thin weak, nervous, scraggy,
mill, flat-chested, run-down
and UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If you want to add flesh, be made
plump, strong, healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of
“MIRACULA” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Wi,
There’s Style and
Solid Worth in
this Boot at 18/6
IT may be had either
in Glacb or Box Calf
—the leather in each
case being specially
selected and very soft to
the foot. You can have
it both in black or tan,
as you prefer.
The price of this is
18/6— posted in Victoria
9d. extra; to any other
State 1/3 extra.
Send for our Booklet
illustrating our big range
of Footwear for Woman,
Man and Child. It’s free.
LEEMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street,
Melbourne;
and at North Melbourne
and Prahran.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6<l;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Glycerine and “ Benzoe ” Scaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
“ Redness ” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing and softening
the skin, set up an irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
h
GLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawK.es &, Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
57
DON’T
SUFFER
FROM
OBESSTY
m
m
.
m
' @3
Excess Fat makes your life miserable, des-
troys your vigor and vitality, weakens your
heart, absolutely obliterates your figure, and
makes you a laughing-stock for your friends.
“Fatcure”
is a scientific, successful and efficacious rem-
edy for the reduction of adipose tissue. It
is harmless, pleasant to take, and the fat
once removed by it does not come back.
It will, unaided by dieting or exercise, re-
duce your weight by about 5 lbs. a week.
There is no faith-cure about “Fatcure.
The weighing machine shows you the results.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us post you a
FREE TRIAL sample and our Free Book.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
By Appointment.
CEREBOS
SALT
GUARANTEED
PURE, WHOLESOME
AND BENEFICIAL.
Agents—Harrison or 9 A ttivood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
instant
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PATENTS
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
c'r.'-
By Warrant of Appointment to H. \f. The King.
i
TYRES, 1
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
z 34 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY ;
526 Flinders Lane, Melbourne ;
K) McHenry St., Adelaide ;
also Perth-, Hobart & Brisbane.
Boomerang Fence Droppers
THE STRONGEST AND CHEAPEST.
20 Per Cent.
Former
Send for Price List.
Reduction on
Prices.
GIANT FENCE CO.,
Camperrlown, N.S.VV.
‘COAGULINE,’* KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
—Cements for breakages, manufacturing' purposes, .etc.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
DX
Custard
5
Bird’s
CftSted ttHhSrmt
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
. Adults and the Youthful alike.
THr
•s CURE
i-OR
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, Ac.
The enormous Success of Owbridge’s
I-ung Tonic could not have been won,,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
L renu iy ever known. Beware of Sub-
L stitules ; ask for “OWBRIDGE "
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold everywhere
in bottles at Is. l£d„
is Ud,,4s. 6d.,.&115.
COPYRIGHT.
88
MILLERS
s
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
51 Length, 12 Inches.
/ ~ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
eannot he bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Mileer.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] 14
BRIAR
Pipes (GBD) Pipes
The ©i\ly FIFES
That have stood
the Test of Time.
All Good Smokers Use Them
Hsk for them and see
.. that you get them ..
Brifisb=jFlustralasian
3?
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may lie addressed care of
the British:Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Cojmpound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
The Inky Way.
“S.”: The Bathurst (N.S.W.) Argus changed hands,
the other day. Bathurst is a great town for newspaper
reconstructions and similar objects. The Argus, which
has only been in existence a year or so, began as an even-
ing- paper. But the reptile contemporary persisted in
coining out o’ mornings with the cream of the news ; and
so the Argus staff squared its jaw, resigned itself to stay-
ing up till 4 a.m. six mornings a week, and brought its
sheet out in time for breakfast. Prior to the
advent of the Argus there had been two ahti-Labor
papers—the Times and the Free Press—in existence
in Bathurst. However, they wilted in circulation
and affluence, and at last combined, in desperation,
to produce the existing Tory organ. About the time the
amalgamation occurred the famous Sentinel burst and
died. The “ old hands ” talk of the Sentinel with a sort
of holy joy that is inspiring to witness. It was, as any-
one who has been privileged to scan a copy will testify,
“hot stuff.” It didn’t occupy itself with world politics
to any extent (in fact, barring the publication of alleg-ed
friendly cables between the late Queen Victoria and the
proprietor-editor, it never concerned itself with persons
or happenings overseas at all), but it was a whale and a
whole fleet of elephants on local news. So surely as a flirta-
tious solicitor made clandestinely by night for the open
country with a female companion, the Sentinel got on to
him and chided (or rather “chode ”) him severely by name.
The secret drunk was exposed and his address given ;
also the brand of liquor on which he revelled. Those
were dark days in which it was hard for the average
prominent citizen to be aggressively self-righteous, and
in which any reference from the hustings to the immoral
and home-bursting tactics of Socialism would have drawn
on their utterer a meticulously correct, and, therefore,
damning risumi of his own doings during the preceding-
six months. The Sentinel, in its heyday, went every-
where. It had a larger circulation outside than in
Bathurst. The parting words of Governor Hercules
Robinson to a club friend as he boarded a London steamer
out of Sydney Harbor for the last time were “ Mind you
send me a copy of the Sentinel whenever there’s any-
thing good in it.” But there came a time when its
originator lost interest in the organ of thought
that he had created. He sold it callously. And,
to the immense relief of every right-thinking inebriate
and pursuer of the fair sex in the Western district of
N.S.W.,it immediately fell dead. The only Bathurst
paper that has remained unaltered since its inception
nearly a quarter of a century ago is the National
Advocate. It is the organ of the Protectionist democrats
of the locality, and has boomed greatly in recent years.
* « * *
“Janor”: Struck a bundle of English “comics” last
week, and learned from them that the joke of the hour
in the Cold Land is the pauper. The drunk joke and the
mother-in-law jape are resting, and the bedstead and
underclothing quips are turned out to grass. The pauper
jocosity fills the page to the exclusion of all else —the
pauper stalking the bumper, negotiating a loan, dodging
the house dog, selling his mate as a bundle of rags, etc.
The English black and white man lives on pauper just
now. If Freetrade has done nothing else for Britain it
has provided the local draughtsman with a picturesque
and marvellously diverse collection of paupers for use as
humorous models.
“S.T.S.”: Plave just seen, tardily, the little pamphlet
of appeal for subscriptions to a Victor Daley memorial.
It contains a bit of punctuation which is too good to
perish. Brady’s appreciation of Daley refers to “ the
spirit of Hy Brasil ” ; and the compositor has rendered it
in a business-like manner as “ Hy. Brasil’’—presumably
Henrv of that ilk.
* * f *
It is a strange circumstance that the last three Chief
Secretaries of South Australia—Vardon, Kirkpatrick, and
Wallis —have all been compositors. Kirkpatrick and
Wallis worked for years on the Adelaide Advertiser.
The Duck Creek Ensign, Alluvial Roarer, and other
great Backblock organs of public opinion, suffer much
from the advertising butcher and baker and other half-
column magnates, and even the big city daily meets
them now and again. Recently an advertiser asked, in a
pleasant tone, for the real name and address of the writer
of a letter which had appeared in the correspondence
columns of the Agegus. The information being refused
on the ground of “ journalistic etiquette,” his pleasant
voice vanished and he howled like an evil spirit cleaning-
boots in the halls of Eblis. He said that business was
business, and that he helped to keep the blanky paper
alive, and if the blanky paper wouldn’t answer his ques-
tion he’would withdraw his advt. from the blanky paper.
Then he wound up his advertising connection, vowed
eternal vengeance, and descended the stairs two at a time.
A. M. Thompson, the author of “The Dairymaids”
and collaborator with Robert Courtneidge in “ The Blue
Moon,” “ Cinderella,” and numerous other musical plays
and pantomimes, is a Socialist journalist. He was one of
the famous four who founded the English Clarion 17
years ago, the others being Robert and Montague Blatch-
ford and E. F. Fay. Formerly Thompson worked with
Robert Blatchford'on the Sunday Chronicle. Both held
good positions, Blatchford getting £9OO and Thompson
£lOOO a year. Their politics soon became too Radical
even for a Radical journal, and they made a compact to
stand or fall together. So when Blatchford was eventu-
ally passed out as a dangerous firebrand, Thompson passed
out with him, despite offers of £l2OO and £l5OO per
annum from the proprietors. The Clarion was a losing
venture for a long time, and Thompson had to do a lot of
freelancing to keep the pot from falling off the fire
altogether! As to boiling it, that wasn’t even thought of.
He made a mark as a dramatic critic, his stage articles
being as readable as Max Beerbohm’s or Bernard Shaw’s.
The path thence to dramatic authorship was easy. Most
of Thompson’s plays have been written with and for
Robert Courtneidge, and first produced at the latter’s
Manchester theatre. Thompson is still leader writer for
the Clarion, and has a long list of Socialist books and
pamphlets to his name. Like the other Socialist play-
wright, Bernard Shaw, his recent success has been
phenomenal.
BRINGING OUT THE “RAG.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the morning' bright and early, when you’re feeling
sour and surly,
As you’re searching for your news-sheet on the flower-
bed or the flag,
Do you realise the hustle and the worry and the bustle
That accompany the making of a modern morning
“ rag ” ?
Do you think of all the fretting, and the fuming and the
sweating,
Of the worried chief rheumatic, nosing round for topics
new,
On which to base the leaders which he thinks will suit
his readers,
But which (though breathe it gently) are perused by
mighty few.
Do you dwell on the confusion of the “ sub ” in his
seclusion,
As he grapples like an Ajax with effusions that cavort
In silly sloppy phrases which he has to cut like blazes,
In his pitiless endeavors to keep everybody “ short.”
Do you hear the ceaseless groanings, the anathemas and
moanings,
Of the overworked reporters who are toiling night and
day,
And who have hut scanty purses, and get all the kicks
and curses—
And who of the blessed limelight never get a single ray ?
Do you feel the awful swelter and the hot infernal welter
Of the room in which the “ linos ” bang and rattle all
night through,
With their long arms systematic, and their cams wildly
erratic,
Making order out of chaos in a manner strange but true ?
There are things that you should ponder, and no more
you’ll fret and wonder
As you search among the flower-beds with a soul that’s
full of hate,
Heaving epithets and cursing, and a great resentment
nursing,
Just because the morning “ meat-wrap ” is a few brief
moments late !
MAORILAND.
H. E. BOON.


AGISTMENT.
Grass for about 500
Head of Cattle.
Apply—
4d. Weekly. Albert Leslie, Tomerong.
* LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
TO ARTISTS!
Twenty Guineas Prize.
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY”
offers a Prize of TWENTY GUINEAS for the best
COVER DESIGN.
Write for full particulars to :
THE MANAGER, .
190 Flinders Street,
Early communication imperative. MELBOURNE.
This Unique and Novel Set of
FARTHING LINKS
Genuine Farthings.
LOOK LIKE GOLD.
ONLY 2/-
awn
These handsome Gent’s Farthing Links are
quite different from anythifg you have
ever seen before. Each Link is fitted with
a genuine 1907 Farthing. They are gold
plated, and therefore will retain their
colour, and they are decidedly more unique and
prettier than the prettiest of other Links. The
backs are extra strong, and will not easily
break, and, as you can see from the engraving,
they are the kind that are quickly fitted on
the cuff. If you possess a pair of these novel
Links, your cuffs will always be an object of
great interest and admiration. The price is
only 2/= per pair, post free.
A. J. SMITH & GO.
14 Hunter St.
SYDNEY ■:
Wonderful Australian Invention.
THE ADVENT OF THE
Falkiner-801l Patent Electric
Sheep Shearing Machine
WILL REVOLUTIONISE SHEEP SHEARING.
ELECTRIC POWER, the world over, has supplanted OLDER
METHODS. Its application for sheep shearing has been brought about
by the Falfciner-801l Co., in an INGENIOUS yet SIMPLE manner.
Their machines must commend themselves to all, because:
1. They can be erected EASILY and ANYWHERE without the expense of a
special shed, or any alteration to existing shed.
2. They do not require one-half the per stand of any other known
machines.
3. They run SMOOTHLY, EVENLY, and quietly.
4. They save time, money, and annoyance.
5. In construction and detail they are the acme of perfection, and only the
highest grade material is used.
6. The lightness of the whole stand and the marvellous simplicity and effective-
ness of the pattern universal JOINT defies competition.
7. ALL EXPERTS who have seen the FALKINER-BOLL MACHINES
PLUMP for them. The thing is to see them, and then vou will use them.
8. THE FALKINER-BOLL POWER GRINDER ALUMINIUM DISCS
eclipse all others, for being driven by ELECTRICITY there is no
variation of speed and complete absence of vibration.
Please write for Catalogues and full particulars to
The Falkiner-801l Patent Electric Sheep Shearing
»» |» *\ HEAD OFFICE :
MdCulM I/0., Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 175 William St., Melbourne.
Telegraphic Address —■** Falkiner-Boll,” Melbourne. Code Word —** Triumphant.”
.
SHEEP SHEARING
made EASY,
EFFECTIVE, and
ECONOMICAL.
Power on the Farm
The world's most successful men have built up their great fortunes through the use of machinery in
place of labour.
Thousands of farmers the world over have during the past five years purchased one or more engines
to do the work formerly done by men, horses, or bullocks.
Thousands more will make this change in the next five years, and thereby improve greatly their
present financial condition.
In so doing they will spend money to make money —to enable them to largely reduce their present
cost of production.
We are headquarters in Australia for Farm Power—we distribute far more of it than does anyone else.
Our “1.H.C.” Gasolene and “Buffalo” Steam Engines are known FAVOURABLY throughout Australia.
We have to-day over 300 Engines in stock in Australia, or shortly to arrive.
This immense stock includes Engines for every conceivable farm purpose — Traction, Portable,
Stationary, and Hoisting—Single or Double Cylinder—as well as combined outfits for Wood Sawing,
Threshing, etc.
Our large staff of experts consider it their first and principal duty to give buyers full instruction in
the most economical use of their Engines.
We carry large stocks of extra parts in each State.
Pip*" With a view of making June, 1909, a record month for Engine deliveries,
we shall offer SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS to all who order and accept delivery
in that month. *
Gasolene Engines . —Over 100,000 “1.H.C.” Gasolene Engines have been sold throughout the
world during the past three years —a quantity larger than the combined sales of any FIVE competitors
during the same period-larger than the sales of any other Engine concern since Huyghens built his first
Engine in 1680.
Hundreds of these Engines have been sold right here in Australia, and we are satisfied to accept the
the verdict of their owners as to their merits.
We are, if so required, prepared to equip them for the use of kerosene, but do not recommend it, as
they then have little, if any, advantage over an ordinary kerosene engine, and become more dangerous on
account of use of outside lamp, more complicated, less powerful, and require much more time for both
starting and cleaning.
Worth buying any month in the year —but SPECIALLY IN JUNE, 1909.
Buffalo” Engines are without doubt the most popular Steam Engines in Australia.
Their enormous power in comparison to their light weight enables a farmer to use one of them almost
every day in the year, and under many circumstances where the usual heavy type of engine would be useless.
More than 500 “Buffalos” are in use in Australia, and more of them are being sold every year for
purely agricultural purposes than of all other makes combined.
So great is the popularity of this Engine that no less than three leading Engine builders have
recently complimented it by putting out a special Engine designed for no other purpose than to “ meet the
competition of the 'Buffalo.'”
Scores of farmers have made their “Buffalo ” Engines earn money for them nearly or quite as fast
as they had to pay it to us, and thus in a comparatively short time have owned a good Engine capable
of giving them many years' service, and without having been £1 out of pocket.
“Wolseley” Shearing
Plants with “1.H.C.”
Engines are obtain-
able on remarkable
terms.
WRITE US NOW.
W JUNE, 1909, IS THE MONTH TO GET ONE.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
200 Roma St, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke St, Melbourne.
17 Bank St., Adelaide. 75 York St, Launceston.
Send for list of Sec-
ond-hand Engines
(oil and steam), re-
placed by “1.H.C.”
and “Buffalos.”
Large Stock, Great
Variety, Low Prices
(270)


“Harrison O.” writes :
A mansion, that has known many vicissitudes is Osborne
House at Geelong (Victoria). This envy-inspiring shanty
was built by Philip Russell, of the Victorian squattocraey,
and was for a long time occupied by him. Then with the
creation, under the Bent regime, of the Geelong Harbor
Trust. it whs found that 50 acres of the Oorio'Bay fore-
shore, incliided in the property.(9s acres in extent), was
required by the Trust. The grotind was valued at £6OOO,
but Bent went the iwhole amazing hog, and purchased
grounds, pleasure houses, stables, mansion and dog-kennel
for £17,000. 'The Geelong Harbdr Trust paid the Govern-
ment £6OOO, and took the 50 acres it required, leaving the
rest in ’ the paw of the lamentable Bent. The mansion,
overlooking Corio Bay, is something more than desirable,
—it is boshter. Bent evidently thought so, and while he
clung to office he used Osborne House as a seaside resi-
dence. A caretaker and an assistant (both females) and
a couple of gardeners were permanently employed at
about £350 a year, and Bent motored down numerously
and stayed for the week-end. Also he bought about £4OO
worth of furniture upon behalf of the taxpayers. When
Murray replaced the disgraceful market-gardeningperson,
he directed the Government Valuer to assess the pro-
perty. He opines that its present value is £12,000.
Considering that the' total cost of the show (with in-
terest) has been- about £lB,OOO, and that caretakers’
wages have absorbed another £l4O0 —considering these
: things, it would appear that the taxpayers have gOt-poor
value fOr their money. Still, for a time, Geelong enjoyed
the doubtful honor of sheltering Bent and his motor.
Nowadays Osborne House is deserted and desolate and in
need of fumigation. Nothing is left to console Geelong
but a Bad Smell.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
MAXIM
RAZOR
SUL
l;
A luxurious shave
will await you every
morning- if you get
one of these high
quality
MAX(M
RAZORS.
The.blades are fin.,
fin., or fin. deep,
with round, square,
or Irish points, and
every razor is sold
under an absolute
guarantee of satis-
faction, or your
money refunded.
You can easily pay
a higher price, but
you cannot • get a
better razor. Post
free to any part of
Australasia for
6s. 6d.
Sole, Agent for
Maxim Razors :
747-49 Elizabethan,
Melbourne*
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
SoJd by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct, to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong,, Victoria.
£2OO
FOR 2 WORDS.
GAN YOU
HIT THE
I WE DON’T REQUIRE YOU TO SELL GOODS
If you are bright you may wiu £2OO, which we
| intend to give away for correct answers to this
i puzzle. If you can supply the two missing
’ words that the picture represents, write us at
i once, enclosing 2d. Stamp, for reply. If you
| are right we will at'once send you the prize.
I If more than one correct answer is received
I the £2OO will be divided evenly. This is
[ worth' trying for, as the puzzle is not hard.
> Send answer at once, enclosing the 2d. stamp
| for reply. Only one reply from a family
I allowed. National Publishing Co.,
89 Ash Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FITS CURED
Mom the first dose of Ozeririß fits cease., It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Messrs. Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney
Prepared b ' I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist.
25. HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
n-f Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
?rahan States or New Zealknd PT AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during; any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Bail-Bearing
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs. J. O. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
“RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
"TOUR
WITH
LOCKYER'S
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
PLAsraq
EnAAITVQl 1
REGsinftOE»ftß
MOTHERS with delicate children should give them
PLASMON COCOA
THE BEST BREAKFAST AND SUPPER BEVERAGE.
Mrs. G. P— , Reading, says:—■
“From my baby’s first birthday, Plasmon Oats, Cocoa, etc., have practically supplied all his wants. He is,
indeed, a splendid specimen of what a child should be, and his good health and development are such a joy to us
that I write to express our appreciation of your preparations.”
PLASMON COCOA and PLASMON
are obtainable of all Grocers, Stores, Chemists, etc.
TENFOLD NUTRIMENT.
Plasmon is Used by the Royal Family.
PLASMON, LTD., LONDON. Australian Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack St., SYDNEY.
*l*
=c
\ ,
mm
: 'mm'
TAKE »RUGS!
WHY don’t you stop it ? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders'of Electricity. You don’t need doctors; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outoiae of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only wa' to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the iaw improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC CELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£5OO REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit JBSOO to anyone proving
the contrary.
Ifc is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we wiU, send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
REE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Joseph r. Corcoran OFFICE HOURS : 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
THE McLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name *
Address
"<2
m
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
LEADING
HOUSE
FOR.
Sporting Goods
Fishing TacKle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting: Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of SOs. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
CANT
B
BEAT
i
I m
m
-
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6f to 71b. ; of 16-gauge, 6| to ... 15*S.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable, weapon. .
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
.. \ *' v
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 64 posted. MEii.RH?
England, 9d. Howto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cußi?,lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aus r. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is/ Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d; Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wis'hes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, SOO kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Bd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Trainino, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of. the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The WaybaCks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IST" Established. 25 Fears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER,. OR ,
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. ' NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Gruide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. ' How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit, Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto'
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post, 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The Famous
71
II
Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fe Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing Hoarseness, Pam or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
Wh m ar ri! UbjeCt C ° dS °o the C^ &St 1S invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation
m the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, no? Consump-
tion to develop Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain. y y
Small Size, 26; Large Size, 46. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion”
the only machiae on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five vears.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
1j “Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKB A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering thisadvertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRAUAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. C.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.
m* BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE Gd. PACKET CF TEN. sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fro#, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Pros, Is.
S*nd Stamp for Illustrated Lints of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 g G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTH MA CURE
EHIMAULTIS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervonsCoftghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GBIMAULT' Sc Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all ChemUts.


SKIN
a
4
" Out of Sight, Out of Mind”
Dangers; Don't Neglect
an Unseen Sore 1
Hundreds of apparently healthy
men and women suffer torture from
unseen skin troubles, about which
their nearest and dearest friends
know nothing 1 . If a skin trouble is
so situated as to be no disfigurement,
it is frequently neglected—with dire
results.
Poisoned wounds, discharging ulcers and
sores, and pimply eruptions on chest or back,
are among the most common of these invisible
sources of weakness and woe. If you have
such a “skeleton in your cupboard ” take new
hope from the knowledge that Zam-Buk Balm
has cured in hundreds of such cases, and will
purify and heal in hundreds more.
“ For fully four years,” says Mr. C. Ward, of 66 Cromwell Street, Collingwood,
Victoria, “ I suffered from eruptions on my back in the form of sores, which broke and
ran ong into the other until the whole of my hack was in a very bad state. I was com-
pelled to seek the aid of a doctor, hut although I consulted more than one medical man,
took a variety of medicines, and used a number of dressings in the shape of oifttments
and liniments, my back obstinately refused to heal. After having suffered thus for four
years, and was beginning to think that I would never be free of the trouble, I one day
received ?, sample pot of Zam-Buk at the house, and noticing it was a reputed cure for
sores and allied skin diseases, I applied the Balm to my back. The first application was
encouraging. I thereupon purchased a large pot of Zam-Buk, and by the time this was
finished, the sores had completely disappeared. My back is now as clean and healthy as
a child’s, and I cannot adequately express my sincere sense of gratitude for niy cure after
those four long years of suffering.”
Zam-Buk, the world’s greatest healer, is invaluable for Files, Eczema>
Boils, Running Sores, Sore Begs, Ankles, Feet or Backs, Ringworm,
Barcoo, etc. As a household Balm for Cuts, &urns, Bruises, Scalds,
Abrasions, Grazes, Children’s Sores, Blackheads, and Fimples, Zam-Buk is
invaluable. Of all Chemists and Stores, or post free from the Zam-Buk Co.,
39 Fitt
Street,
Sydney,
for 1/6,
or 3/6
special
family
size
(con-
taining
nearly
four
times
the 1/6).
m
m
vy////////A
Arista
RUB IT IN”
“THE 20th CENTURY DISEASE”
AND ITS STRANGE SYMPTOMS.
Discovery of Antidote for Nervous Asthenia.
THE POPE’S PHYSICIAN CONGRATULATES THE DISCOVERER.
Dr. A. Kuhner, the well-known German nerve specialist,
has just written a remarkable treatise on the subject of
the disease that bids fair to be known as “ the Twentieth
Century disease.”
The extraordinary feature of this rapidly-spreading
complaint is that it may exist in a man or woman appar-
ently strong- and healthy in every other respect. So
subtle, indeed, is this disease in its earlier stages that the
victim himself may be actually unconscious of it. Unfor-
tunately, the same cannot be said of its distressing later
stages of development.
Beginning with the apparently trivial symptomatic
condition of “sensitiveness” or “nervousness” (or
“ touchiness,” as the victim’s candid friends may describe
it), the disease may, if neglected or encouraged in its
development, progress through some of the following
serious stages:—
Sensitiveness
Restlessness | Irritability
Melancholia | Nervousness | Pessimism
Hysteria 1 Fearfulness 1 Inaptitude for I Dizziness
I I Steady Work |
Memory I Weak I Lack of Mental
Weakness | Will Power | Clarity
Brain Fag | Sense of Failing Powers
Mental Derangement
The ever-increasing number of suicides in which “ Death
from unknown causes ” is the common but enigmatical
verdict', is proof of the diabolically stealthy progress of
this disease.
DR. KUHNER’S TREATISE.
Happily, preventive medical skill is much more up-to-
date than it was even so recently as when influenza first
raged as an epidemic. To-day medical science has
“ scotched,” if it has not entirely killed, influenza,
though only after it had carried off tens of thousands to
too early graves. And, to-day, medical skill has already
found its antidote for “Nervous Asthenia,” or “ Neuras-
thenia.” Dr. Kuhner generously pays tribute in his
treatise to its discovery by a professional confrere, a Dr.
Karl Hartmann, whose discovery bears the appropriate
name of “Antineurasthin.”
The most extraordinary testimony as to the value of
the discovery is already being published in the medical
and public press.
His Holiness the Pope’s Physician-in-Ordinary, Dr.
Giuseppe Lapponi, of Rome, writes: —
“I made trials in my private practice of ‘ Antineu-
rasthin,’and shall prescribe it henceforward, as it is an
admirable agent for toning and strengthening the nervous
system. I take the liberty of congratulating you on
your discovery.”
Similar unqualified approval of Dr. Hartmann’s “ Anti-
neurasthin ” has been received from other very high
quarters, as may be seen in Dr. Kuhner’s medical treatise.
INTRODUCTION OF DISCOVERY INTO
THE COMMONWEALTH.
The success of “Antineurasthin” as the antidote to
nervous asthenia is based on Dr. Hartmann'S discovery of
the importance of the brain and spinal marrow as the
central station of the nervous system. Dr. Hartmann
has shown that nervousness, nervous debility, neuras-
thenia, etc., do not represent conditions of debility of the
nerve fibres themselves, but of the brain and spitial mar-
row. In further explanation of the wonderful effect of
“ Antineurasthin,” it may be pointed out that it is not a
drug, but the brain and nerve-substance-forming essen-
tials of certain selected foods. Mycline (or Lecithine) is
the scientific name for this brain-and-nerve-building con-
stituent of our daily food.
Now, one of those lingering- popular fallacies which yet
have a modicum of truth at their base is that fish food
strengthens the brain. This it does, but only to about
the same extent (and less than some) as other articles of
diet.
Though we know that insufficient food, or a dietary
deficient in certain nutrients, allows the body and braiii
to fall into a state of weakness, yet, on the other hand,
the body, brain, and nerves cannot be strengthened,
either as a whole or in part, beyond the limits set by the
food appropriate capacity of the system.
It is not continual overloading of the stomach with the
finest or richest foods that will build up additional brain
and nerve strength.
No less than nine-tenths of vital power is exhausted ha-
lite's primary processes of assimilation and elimination,
but the demand on brain Workers to-day creates a more or
less continual overdraft on the nine-tenths proportion of
life’s capital required for the current working expenses
of the body.
Dr. Hartmann’s “Antineurastbin ” is a scientific
extract compound from those articles of food richest in
the lecithinic, or brain and nerve-building, constituents.
The value of Dr. Hartmann’s discovery lies in the
scientific fact that “Antineurasthin” is not a mere bodv
and brain food. It is a brain and nerve food solely, and
as such is directly assimilable by the brain and nervous
system. Hence it supplies the want long-sufferingly felt
by those whose work in life entails an undue cerebral-
nervous demand on the common fund of vital power.
Dr. Hartmann’s discovery is one that should personally
and very deeply interest brain-workers in all walks of
life. Every day is heard and seen all too serious evi-
dences of the undue strain of their intense work on the
vital power of the body. And now, on the highest
possible authority, it is heralded that science has proved
equal to the stern necessity which demanded the dis-
covery of “ Antineurasthin the brain and nerve food.
No longer need the brain-worker struggle on under the
cloud of fear of failing- powers of brain and body. He or
she may, by including “Antineurasthin ” as an article
vitally necessary in the daily dietary, maintain that per-
fect balance of mental and physical pow-er which alone
can uphold health and happiness.
For greater convenience, “Antineurasthin ” is com-
pressed into small tablets, and although its beneficial
effect on the brain and senses is so immediate, yet there
is none of the depressing reaction that follows the
administration of artificial drug “stimulants,” “Anti-
neurasthin” being a special brain and nerve nutrient,
and not a brain and nerve drug irritant.
This new' nerve food comes with hearty commendation
from many scientists, and since its introduction it has
already alleviated much suffering—curing most severe
headaches, acute neuralgia, and sciatica, whilst even
cases of creeping paralysis and brain concussion have
been treated with complete success.
Space does not now allow' further information respecting
this marvellous 20th century brain and nerve food dis-
covery, but readers may like to know that they may
obtain a copy of Dr. Kuhner’s remarkable treatise, as
well as a sample of Dr. Hartmann’s “ Antineurasthin ” by
sending eight penny stamps to the wholesale distributor
for Australasia, 11. A. Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The effect even of the trial supply offered to readers
will come as a revelation of the possibilities of modern
scientific building up of the brain and nerve-celt.
The above offer of a supply of “Antineurasthin” for
personal trial purposes is one that should be immediately
accepted by every brain-worker, as well as by evei \
reader conscious of some ferm of weakness of the nervous
The Pagan’s Sunday.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fIMHE bells are ringing above the streets, sum-
moning folk to prayer,
* - Their jarring clamor breaks and beats on
the torn and outraged air ;
But how shall a man released from toil turn into
a church to pray,
When every crest on the harbor’s breast is whis-
pering “ Come away ” ?
The heavens shine like a gold-bossed shield of
bright, enamelled blue,
And earth turns ocean, hill and field like mirrors
to catch their hue;
All things gleam beautiful and bright, and the
wings of Death are furled,
For the Living God doth move abroad in his gold
and turquoise world !
In their halls of Gloom priests prate of Doom,
and the vileness of Desire,
But out on the bay the God of Day fills every-
thing with fire ;
In the track of the sun, where the ripples run,
the clear beams glint and go—
Shall I turn my feet to a dark, cold seat and a
tale of eternal woe ?
Red, yellow and brown the rocks run down to the
lips of the emerald sea ;
By their silver lace you may surely trace where
the wavelets foam and flee,
In place of streets, white gulls in fleets ride
lightly by bend and bay—
Shall I leave the surge and rocks for a dirge
and a vain anathema ?
Sweet eyes that shine look into mine, and a
tender voice speaks low—
It speaks of Love, and the heavens above more
brightly seem to glow ;
In halls of Gloom that smell of the tomb, bend
shavelings dull, austere,
But we worship the Living God of Love with
heart and soul out here !
The parson and priest declare Christ’s death for
weird church-worship calls,
But He never died to keep men inside those
microbe-haunted walls.
For chapel or church or cathedral dim no jot did
the Master care— /
But He took the poor to the molint or shore, and
taught in the open air !
A fowl of the air, a fish of the sea, a tree, or a
flower in bloom
Gave Him the text for a homily—and He never
harped on Doom.
I sometimes wonder what He would say if He but
cared to see
The church-going pietist of to-day, with his
anthem set in G. !
I wonder, too, what He would do if He were to
return
And mark the senseless forms and rites and cere-
monies we learn
In the gloomy halls with infected walls, unven-
tilated anil dark,
Where the organ wails, and the joyful tales are of
Jonah and Noah’s Ark ?
Gloom —hence ! Away ! On this splendid day,
that is sacred to the Sun,
My love arid I let the world go by—for the long
week’s work is done,
And with heart and voice all things rejoice in the
’ plenitude far-hurled
By the Living God of Beauty and Love o’er His
gold and turquoise world.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
When the Blinds Were Drawn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE trouble was just starting when, in
the brief interval between borrowing
i threepence and a match, Poet said
that one eye was getting puffed. As I came out
into the sunlight an hour or two later, an invisible
enemy rained light taps upon my eyeball. In-
voluntarily 1 ducked for shelter to the shady side
of the street, and wondered at the perversity of
the reformer who wants to - abolish verandahs
from the city. For the next 24 hours the invisible
enemy lurked for me in every flash of light, and
his playful taps grew into heavy blows, shot out
straight from the shoulder. And then, coming
suddenly out into tbe.sunshine, I found that the
relentless wretch had armed himself with a sword.
There was no fighting him ; his victim Crept into
the shadow and hid himself.
Nobody is ever really so mean as even a fair
average man feels when first some sudden trouble
attacks his eye. The professional heavy-weight
may proudly wear a black patch in his face as
though it were the white flower of a blameless
life.; but the peaceful person who arrives at his
trouble without the help of another’s fist feels that
the pitying look of the world is turned upon him,
and he creeps from cover to cover, and never feels
so itauch like a snake at any other time of his life.
For me the time came when even the deepest
shadow was not deep enough. So the blinds were
drawn.
The doctor groped his way in and pulled the
curtain aside—only a little, yet enough for the
waiting fiend to flash his sword and get in one
lunge. Conjunctivis, the doctor guessed after one
look at what had become a tortured ball of fire,
conjunctivis being the particular piece of Latin
which the eye commonly suffers from after an
overdose of either beer or railway cinders. If it
wasn’t conjunctivis it might be cyclitis ; though,
by >vay of preparing for the future, did my family
run to rheumatism, and, if it did, did it take it in
the l eye as a rule? On general principles, and
from force o.f habit, I pleaded not guilty to every-
thing. So I had conjunctivis to go on with. Con-
junctivis is really not a matter for a doctor except
perhaps to dig out the railway cinder, if that
should be the cause of the trouble. That done, it
is mostly a matter of Epsom salts, a Rechabite’s
life,; rest, and copious applications of that good
old • stand-by, boracic solution, with rosewater
added if the chemist thinks his customer can pay
for it.
Even in Australia, where everybody’s eyes get
out of order at some time or other—everybody,
anyhow, who lives in the- glaring Outback —it
seems there are still some people who don’t know
how to give their eyes a bath. Lie, then, on your
back, incline your head slightly, shut your eye,
and get somebody to pour a spoonful of the lotion
into the cup which the bridge of the nose helps to
make. Then lift the eyelids apart, and the lotion
will fill the eye. If you try to pour into the eye
direct the muscles will involuntarily contract and
get ready to repel the intruder. So you don’t
open the eye till the lotion is lying, cool and
soothing, outside, waiting to flow in gently of its
own accord. On the other hand, if it is more
precious stuff than eye wash, and if it has to be
applied direct, you don’t try to get it in from the
side nearest the nose. If you want a single drop
to flow over the eye, it must enter from the outer
and not from the inner corner. So far, however,
as most biting eye lotions are concerned, the best
way to use them is to pour them down the sink.
If you haven’t got a sink you can throw the bottle
at a crow.
But during the night, and before I had learned
all these useful things, the devil who had been
dogging me for three days smuggled in a black
cat. I have nothing but admiration for the devil’s
choice of cats. An animal with keener teeth I
have never met. But when it is one’s eye into
which the needles are being thrust, one’s stock of
admiration is apt to run out before morning.
This was happening when the devil, who has evi-
dently been in politics, created a diversion by
sending a second cat. They were strangers to one
another ; and when two strange cats meet over
one titbit, excitement is always highly probable.
It happened in this case. When the second cat
arrived, the first cat had his needle-teeth planted
well in the eyeball, and the second cat joined him
there. But the first cat got the idea that
the second cat had more than his fair share
of the eye, whereupon he drew out his teeth,
darted forward the sixteenth of an inch, and
planted them in again. The second cat snarled,
sprang back the sixteenth of an inch, and planted
his teeth in there. This contest was interesting
enough for a while, till one remembered that it
was one’s own eye that was being fought over.
Such a small thing as that made one forget all
one’s sporting instincts.
In the morning the doctor, though he suffered
from defective vision and couldn’t see the cats,
threw conjunctivis overboard and took on iritis.
He might have told that it was iritis before had
he known exactly the sort of pain that was being
suffered. In this respect, medical science has
been a failure. It ought to have discovered
a painmeter or a hurtoscope long ago. The
doctor doesn’t ask you your temperature. He
claps the thermometer into your armpit and
gives you the information. But when it comes to
pain you have to tell the doctor, and what a big,
strong man may call torture a little, weak woman
will describe as nothing of any consequence. So
the doctor, who ought to know things precisely,
has to grope in the dark, and many an under-
taker has had a job because, all for want of a pain-
meter, the doctor has been misguided into the
belief that nothing much was the matter. Also,
by the way, many a chemist has risen to affluence
because big, strong men have groaned that they
were suffering at least 97° centigrade when a pain-
meter would have shown that they registered no
more than about 22°.
So after conjunctivis had been cast over-
board, and iritis had been put into its
place, salicylic, that good old stand-by of
the rheumatic, had an innings. It is one
of the most interesting of medicines. To
a lonely man in a black room it is capable of
supplying a complete variety show. First, when
you begin to get saturated with it, winds rustle
pine trees in Norwegian forests. In an hour or
two you are under a cataract and listening to the
steady drone of the waterfall, until breakers begin
to chase one another on to' the beach at Manly.
And then, dozing from the monotony of it, you
wake to find the breakers gone. You are in a
skating rink now. Thousands swoop about the
floor in a mad whirl. Crash ! Two thousand
have come together in an almighty collision, and,
in the horror of it, everything is for the moment
hushed to a dead silence. You wait for the
whirr of the doctors’ motors and the rumble of the
ambulance vans and the gathering up of the frag-
ments. But, instead, out of the silence creeps one
pair of wheels; after it dashes another, and another,
and soon all the thousands are clattering away,
until once more come the almighty smash and the
awed silence. When the pioneer skater dashes
out, to be followed presently by the pack, you can
amuse yourself picking out the whir of his wheels
until it is at last swallowed irretrievably in the
unbroken roar.
Next day, having been sufficiently saturated,
you have your salicylic dope diminished ; and the
doctors begin the second round in their fight with
the cats for possession of the eye. If they can
enlarge the pupil, by liberal anointing with atro-
pine, the cats will have to quit. But the brutes
clutch fiendishly at their prey, and you beg for
something to ease the agony of it. Yesterday,
turning back over the papers that were printed
while the blinds were drawn, I read, “Seizure of
Opium: What is the drug worth?” Waking
that recent morning, after a long, sweet sleep, I
should have said a thousand pounds an ounce.
And yet it was merely a hot decoction of poppy-
heads in which the eye and throbbing head had
been bathed, the simplest form of all applications
of opium.
Thus the cats were driven out until there was
left only one jagged tooth to be rooted out by
mere persistence. After that the consulting man
looks in and says that things are doing very well.
Then you, whom the sword-flash had cowed so
thoroughly, summon back enough courage to ask
how long it is going to be. Whereupon he is im-
pressive but vague—at least three weeks of
close-drawn blinds and three weeks more to
get the eye fit to begin earning its keep. “ With
all sorts of care,” he adds in his impressive con-
sulting-man’s way. “Last year I had a case that
did not get rid of the trouble for over 12 months.
It was a tailoress who said she could not afford to
stop ; so after the worst was over she struggled
with her stitches—and it took 12 months.
Away in the distance then I seemed to hear
some Fat gentleman asking, in a puffy voice, the
old platitudinous question : “After all, how much
better off am I than the poor man, for he can have
his three meals a day, and I can have no more ? ”
And the puffy voice seemed to sound again as the
busy man said : “ I must go now. I have had a
heavy afternoon. It has been my hospital day,
and I saw 80 patients.”
Eighty “ outdoors,” some of them perhaps pur-
sued by the twin of my own devil with the sword ;
four hours perhaps to “ put through ” the lot in—
an average of three minutes for each !
I turned over to the beautiful dark, thinking
that things might be worse, after all—l might
have been one of the 80, shoving and shouldering
for a'three-minute interview with the doctor. And
so might the Fat Gentleman with the puffy voice
and the platitudinous question.
P. X.


THAT ONE WEAK SPOT!
Right in the Small of the Back*
A bad back is Natures signal of distress, a call for help from the
kidneys. The aching tells of dangerous congestion that robs the
kidneys of their blood-filtering power, or painful, wasting inflamma-
tions. There is immediate need for Doans Backache Kidney Pills
to relieve the pam and heal the diseased kidneys, to ward off moie
fatal and painful disorders. Learn to keep the kidneys well, Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills will do it for you. Grateful residents of
this city testify. Their statements prove it to you.
SYDNEY PROOF.
o.
3*
S
in
"Every picture
tells a story
FROM REDFERN.
Mr. James Higgins', 9G Great Buckingham Street, Redfern, Sydney, says: “ Some time
ago I was taken ve°ry badly with kidney trouble. I consulted three doctors, and underwent
treatment, and each one failing to do me good advised me to go into the hospital for an
operation. They said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only
chance, as one of the kidneys was diseased. I took medicines of all sorts ; everything
failed, and I was in such pain that I did not care if I died. I had severe backache, giddi-
ness, headaches, and scalding urine. The day was appointed for the operation when a
friend asked me if I had yet tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew of
a man who was as bad as I was, and had been cured completely by these pills. I postponed
the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnight later I
returned to work, and the men there could not believe that the change they saw in me
would ever have been possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. lam as fit for work as
a man could be.”
Six years later, Mrs. Higgins says: “My husband has been free of every symptom
of kidney trouble ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him, six years ago.”
FROM BALMAIN.
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham Street, Balmain, Sydney, says : “I used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they worked a miracle in my case. I had been under
three doctors at different times, but their treatment did me no good. I used to be so bad
that I would have to be carried home on a cart if an attack came on when working in t le
street. Sometimes I have been taken to the hospital when one of these bad attacks came on.
I suffered with a kind of biliousness and vomiting, my secretions were very bad ; I could never
bend my back or move at all when I had a bad turn. The people at the hospital gave me
medicines and recommended rubbing in liniments, but it was of no use ; they did not benefit
me I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and procured this remedy
I only took one box, and was cured. When I finished them I started work, and have worked
ever since. These Pills cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was instantaneous.
Mrs. Smith says, nine years later My husband has had wonderful health since he
used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I am convinced that he owes Ins life to this remedy.
He is now so well, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney 1 ills.
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
Price, 2s. 9d. per box.
AH Chemists and
Storekeepers.
FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
At the Show.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AN’ - what -do -1 - ged - oud -of-it ? ” de-
mands father, as he delves into his
Saturday lobster. “ Where-do-I-come-
in ? Work all the week, don’t I ? Bring home
the gilt, don’t I, an’ wha’s the result ? No thanks,
no consideration at ’ome, an’ no pleasure abroad.”
He wags his beard gloomily in the direction of
his life partner.
“ Rubbish ! ” she snaps. “ You get your due all
right. As for consideration—don’t I lay out your
pocket money ? Don’t I prevent you drinking
it ? Didn’t I stop you backing Bluebottle ”
“Yes! an’ lost me a 40 to 1 charnce —Blue-
bottle won,” growls father. But with masterly
composure mother ignores this facer, merely ask-
ing, in reference to the recreation question,
“Haven’t I read you the ‘ Amusement Column’ ?
Haven’t we seen the excursion boats start? And
have you forgotten all the funerals you’re invited
to ? But here ”
She breaks off in exasperation, and slams before
him the Daily Lie, advising its perusal with his
own eyes, and a request that she might not be
called on for the cost of anything.
Fearful of being overlooked, Legs, hitherto
silent, bursts into passionate appeal. “If yous
are goin’, I’m agoin’—we never goes places—l
been promised the circus every birthday, an’ then
yous say, ‘Wait till father’s workin” —so if yous
go to the bioscope, I’m agoin’ ”
“ Shed up ! ” shouts father, with feeble ferocity.
“M’ria, how are you bringing the family up at
all. Never no respeck for their father ” (his
voice has a self-pitying quaver). “What my
people ”
“Now, now, pa, don’t throw your people in
my teeth again. I wont put up with it. Here,
give me the paper ; you’ll fumble there till mid-
night—an’ if you’re determined to waste your
earnings on empty pleasures and dazzling bio-
scopes, you’ll have to bustle if we’re to get there
before ‘God Save.’ ”
She reads, and makes calculations as to cost.
She also lays an authoritative hand on the
lobster’s remains, bearing them cupboardwards.
“Do for supper,” she says. “ Now get into your
best things quick’s you like.”
Pa, first sending Legs flying for two bottles of
“Bulldog,” to be carried as refreshers, starts on
his toilet. He realises that his appearance in
pleasure-seeking throngs is a rarity. Therefore
let him do the occasion justice. Let him polish
his watch-chain and brush again his thinning
hair. Let him wrestle with his collar and knot
his thumb in his tie. These matters completed,
let him light, imperfectly, his pipe many times,
and then, as the tram is boarded, let him cross-
examine his pockets and find his tobacco left at
home.
The rumbling of the tram drowns his tide of
bitterness; but, anyhow, mother is too busy
shuddering at the summer-girl’s transparencies to
heed him, while Legs, his nose flattened to the
glass, his soles to the public, is dead to all save a
paradise of expectation. The tent entertainment
has started when its entrance is reached, much
futile nagging having been spilt on the way.
It is a blow to the finances when a placard in-
scribed “ Is. seats sold out ” shoots forward.
“Sold out!” reads father, blankly. “ S-sold
out! ” echoes Legs, the ready tears rising in his
eyes. “ Plenty room in the circle ” volunteers a
bland official. “ Standing room only.”
A council of war is held. Ma’s lean
refuses to run to circle tickets, and she, moreover,
flatly declines to “ stand it out ” at two shillings.
Things remain at a deadlock, both parents agree-
ing that to support one’s own weight is a suffi-
ciency, while that of a lumpy baby in addition is
an impossibility.
Hearing talk concerning a return home by the
next tram, the agitated Legs explores a little on
his own account, the while father gives a last
hungry look at “Is., sold out,” as though by so
doing he could induce the placard to tell a
different tale.
But while ma counts her capital once more, a
door opens and riotous applause gushes forth.
She wavers. Inspiration fires her —if they stand,
some seated Samaritan may offer to hold the in-
cubus.
Father eagerly embraces this view, and parting
with his earnings, is already threading the turn-
stile when he finds ma’s panic-stricken face at his
shoulders.
“Where’s Willie?” she squeals above the
band. “He’s gone—lost—something’s happened
to him ! ”
“ Gone ? Why ’e wuz at me elber just now—’e
can’t be gone,’’ says father, cramming all his
effects on to ma, the better to catch the missing
one’s ear, when found. “Young devil—l’ll tan
’im—l’ll learn ’im ! ”
A search behind the potted shrubs —a question-
ing of stony officials. In vain—Legs is not.
Mother dabs at her eyes, and a tightening of her
throat-muscles forecasts a scene. Father recog-
nises these symptoms as old acquaintances, and
promptly seizes the situation by the hair. He
plugs down the alley. “ I’m goin’ in,” he
announces, with a note of finality. “Let the
young limb rip. Gone to see city-life, I suppose.
Nice thing—left in the lurch by a whipper-
snapper his age. Young cub, I’ll ”
“ Tickets,! ” demands a jelly-faced man at a turn
of the alley.
“Tickets!” repeats Father. “What d’yer
mean ? I give me tickets to a chap at the
entrance.”
But the checktaker appears unconvinced.
“ Well, that was your mistake,” he says. “ I take
the tickets for this show. If you gave ’em to a
man in the street, you got to pay again—see. So
speaking, he plants his bulk in the way, and pa
choking^and fuming at this fresh irritation, strikes
a fighting attitude, with threats of “ something to
go on with.” . .. ,
“Now then, none o’ that, cautions the col-
lector, alarmedlv hopping behind a barrier, or
in comes a cop, quick and lively.”
Father’s fighting pose dissolves into one ot
anguish at a quick succession of cruel proddings
from mother's umbrella. “Oh, come away and
look for Willie,” she moans. “ He’s kidnapped—a
motor’s gone over him—l can see him in an ambu-
lance as plain as plain ” ;
She sobs without restraint, and her handker-
chief, now put to its proper use, gives up the
tickets. . ,
Father is dumb. He swallows in silence the
brutally outspoken opinions of the collector, and
is presently borne forward by a pushing batch of
late-comers and deposited in the pit.
So far back are they as to be almost in the arms
of the sixpenny patrons, who rise immediately
behind, stern —menacing—jealous of their rights.
Any intention of “ standing it out ” is quickly
knocked on the head. The “sixpennys” see to
that. .
“ Sid-down ? ” they growl with one voice. Sid-
down in front! ’Ats off ! Gerrout! Sidown ! !
Willingly would the offenders comply, but
where ? leather turns to explain.
“ Shud-up ! ” chorus the despots. “ Sid-down !
Put the kid out ! ” and then becoming more per-
sonal, “Hi, Baldy—you with the bottles, why
don’t you get work ? ”
Their troubles seem over when presently the
usher condenses the crowds. Someone squeezes
up, and they squeeze in.
Father’s hat is promptly removed for him by a
walking-stick. He dares to object, and the cut of
his beard is derided.
The usher still condensing, he is shoved on to
a peppery patron with corns. “Dammit, sir,
what do you mean?” splutters this fresh foe.
“ No, sir ; no, you can’t sit on my knee. I can’t
prevent you occupying the seat beside me—er —
er —unfortunately, but you’re sitting upon me,
sir, I object to, sir, strongly ” jt
“Sid-down in front! Sid-down in front!”
threatens the mass behind, as father gets up to
apologise to his neighbor.
He has borne enough. His temper rises at the
flood. He turns upon his tormentors with one of
his bottles. In the twinkling of an eye it is gone.
Its pellucid stream, amid much laughter, gurgles
down a knavish throat. Pa remains dry.
After this loss he sinks into a lethargy, too
spiritless to dodge the Merry Widow hat in front,
which both insult and appeal have been powerless
to shift, or the intrusive boots behind, and abso-
lutely dead to the flickering records he has risked
so much to see. His mind reverts to domestic
woes.
“Let’im go ! ” he says, in reference to Legs.
“Ungrateful cub. ’E’s made’is bed; let’im lie
on it. Mind, ’e darkens my door no more. Re-
member that, M’ria. Whelp, I’ll tan ’ini fer
this ”
“Nonsense, pa, anyone would suppose he was
a man to hear you taik—he’s only ten. You can’t
expect grey heads at ten ”
“ Ten,” ejaculates pa in a shocked voice. “ Ten
—what was I doing at ten ? Getting me livin’ ”
(becoming mixed) “eating me breakfast afore I
had earned it. Ten , why ’e’s had the life of a
gentleman. For ten years I’ve slaved fer that
kid, edjicated ’im, paid through the yead for ’im,
an’ ’e slopes—slopes ” ——
“Sh-sh,” irritated patrons frown on him un-
easily, and a hint, conveyed through a walking
stick, reminds him that the sixpenny crowd is
still vigilant.
Obediently he lowers his voice, and would re-
sume, but a piece of orange peel, moist and flabby,
arrives in the nick of time—also in his eye. He
remains silent till sight is regained. Then he
puts on his hat, rises with frozen calm, and, facing
the gallery, throws out a challenge.
He is not taken seriously. His hat is bashed to
his ears by a profane hand, and a stick, hooked
into his collar, jerks him to his seat and his
grievances again.
Mother sets the next piece of pefel,
It is she who locates the excellent “shot.”
Legs it is, his face at this moment almost buried
in the fruit, and his teeth at work on another
missile. To mother’s tear-dimmed eyes lie ap-
pears as one suspended in space. In reality his
scrawny legs embrace some dangling ropes. He
has secured what his parents haven’t even seen—
a programme. This he waves with an assurance
past understanding.
Father is not made aware of the young male-
factor’s nearness. To do so would involve him in
fresh altercations with the gallery, and it is not
till Beer has enticed him forth at the interval
that Legs shins down a post and returns to his kin.
When sufficiently cowed, with forecasts of what
father “owes” him, there is work awaiting him.
He is sent on outpost duty to the entrance to
“ keep an eye ”on his male parent. Others are
also keeping an eye on father. A person with a
very large nose and one with none at all are con-
versing affably with him.
A watch and chain seem to be needed by one of
them, probably for presentation purposes. Father
has the necessary articles —old-fashioned cer-
tainly, yet solid and worthy of the melting-pot,
if, on expert examination, they prove unfit for a
higher office. : 1
It transpires that both the friendly gentlemen
have felt the ingratitude of their children to be
sharper than the serpent’s tooth. Strange coin-
cidence ! The hand of sympathy is again
extended. Condolences are exchanged. The
watch changes pockets.
The best-laid plans may go awry, however, and
at the moment of transference a shrill treble rends
the air with “ P’leece ! P’leece ! Father’s pocket s
picked ! ” The nosey pair, making instant flight,
bound into the embrace of Constable Malone,
whose iron hands urge them unceremoniously from
the scene. i
Picking the lobster at midnight, father’s pose is
modestly heroic. Over and over his tale is told to
weary ears.
Legs, under-valued, his blouse strangely dis-
tended, sulks over a “ piece.” To admit his son s
brightness may detract from his own, therefore
father has not given him his due, nor has his
future punishment been repealed. He sneers
silently as his parent, quaffing water, bemoans the
loss of his beer.
“Your fault, M’ria ; you must ’a’ left it on the
seat. Dry as a north wind, I am —with worry.
I’d give two “bob” for a pint What.
Beerl ” ,
Legs, his revenge purchasable at the price, has
produced the bottle from,his breast.
“Beer? Gimme the corkscrew, M’ria, an’ give
Legs a dollar for me. Legs, you’re too young to
have a drink, but I’m proud of yer, boy. You ve
got your father’s brains. Have a bit o’ lobster.
WEEROONA.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
j
A Grateful Mother Writes:
SS*i
“My little son suffered ter-
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
be disfigured for life. But no,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide.”
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla—not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. Then send for particulars
of our perfectfitting
Automatic Air cushion appliance
The Best Rupture Appliance of the Century-
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Frei
WINSLOW COi) 261 Collins SLMelbourne,Vic
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Superior to 5
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
Each Capsule bears the name
m
The Standard Itemedy which has outlived the Centuries
SIIBLETOrs EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist tor its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Load. London,- Eng.
Wearne 8 Breaks pear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF . , x STRONGROOM
SAFES. Manufacturers DOORS.
Government Contractors.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
THE ‘BUSY 9 FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
«j|3
t?,
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Groces and
Hardware
Dealers!
among wflom are
Sydney—Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St. ; F. H. Paulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheini t Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., V.S.A
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk.” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cioth, with
portrait; price f>d. from all booksellers. Post
DR. J. COLUS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
A
The Best
Remedy
COUCHS, GOLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHCEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
H
es
SIMPLE. EA SSL V OPERA TED.
STRAIGHT THROUGH BLOW.
Self‘Cleaning & Self-Grinding Seat.
FACE PARTS PROTECTED.
NO STUFFING BOX.
Note. —The inlet orifice is tapered just above the seat. This
increases velocity of “ Blast, ” and ensures perfect delivery
without punishment to the seat.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
Sole 263 George Street, Sydney ;
Agents, 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King:’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
'Well Regulated families
are fully alive to the importance of being prepared for those troublesome
attacks of Indigestion and kindred ailments common to all, and of effectively
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable remedy immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine, a box of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
distressing disorders as Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in general,
and Constipation, it is ever the wisest and most satisfactory course to
Jake
Beecham’s Pills. The remedial properties of these pills, however, are not
limited to the cure of digestive troubles alone, but exercise a specific and
beneficial influence upon the nervous system. Well regulated families are
aware that there is no'finer tonic, nor any more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
use of
’s pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 111 k (*56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills). ■
; :
MoP_ ■
a
3 to 1
in favor of the
“Steel Wings” Wiivdmotor
Not betting odds, but a plain statement of
the fact that “Steel Wings,” being direct
acting, raises three pumpfuls of water to
any other type’s one. It has four lengths of
stroke. The Windwheel has a bearing on
each side, making it easy-running; and,
having a large sail area, the mill is very
powerful.
The balance attachment counteracts the
weight of the long pump rod, and prevents
the mill locking at the bottom of the stroke.
guilders—
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
Write to Dept. C for Picture hook, sent post free.
Pumps, Piping, Troughing, and Improved Ball-
Valves sold at Lowest Rates.
UMikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength'; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. J>. MORRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-stheet, ■''Ydney.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by post,
Is. 4d. (stampsj to make 5 gallons spray.
I'ritchlcy Parker’s
V Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibaolt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPA RA TION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
.All Pricks Nett.
TERRAS ARRANGED.
Do you want a Good Business in Melbourne,
Suburbs or Country from £2O to £5000?
We arrange Terms to suit you.
Country Storekeepers and Shopkeepers should send
us particulars when wanting- to sell. Numerous
clients always on the look out for'.good businesses.
WRIGHT & SWIFT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring-this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Do ible-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
looks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge- fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .. £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. .. .. £5 15 0
S Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
3gt
MEN
and
WOMEN
FREE.
Dr. John Martin, M.D. & e .
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders,
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 18 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN'S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF AIIEN AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men suffering from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus-
tralia. for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 882 Fares, over 580
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Feur-Celered The m«*t
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., b«mg a
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. JVe similar beak has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain tho work from any of the Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in country >nd adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage. „ , , M
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Not© Aoaress.
DR. MARTIN, M.D., House,” 251 Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. ~ HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Reliable Rubber Boots
There’s no protection quite so sure as
a good pair o l Rubber Boots, and if you
have to spend much of your time in
sloppy places you’ll find a pair from our
stock a sound investment. The quality
is high ; the price is low.
Pure Cum Boots, of the best quality
and with rolled-edge soles, Men’s, 20/-.
Standard quality, with ordinary soles,
lined, 17/6. A special line at 15/-
Women’s Pure Cum Boots— the best
quality at 12/6. Second grade, 10/-
We also carry a complete stock of
Beggings, Goloshes, Macintoshes, and
other wet-weather necessities.
Our Winter Catalogue details these,
and will be sent free if you ask for it.
Write to-day ; it’s worth while.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO,, LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Full
Particulars—
K.
■ s 1
■ ' 1: '” 1 ?
I ,■. ’. /• / ••• ■/ /;i 5
&
Surface Condensers.
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADk.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Ever}' Beit GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
[E BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V.,'VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Try a
“WOLFE”
arid Soda.
The beverag'e
that benefits.
SCHNAPPS
• —. a .. v~a « - an
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or motor Driven For mining Purposes .
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDBIPGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ALLIS - CHALMERS GO.
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
(W.A. excepted)—
E.S. & A. Bank Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
MINING REQUISITES
of all Descriptions.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES
and ORDERS along for
SPARE PARTS.
Flour Milling
TEL.
/3236
1 5221
ELECTRICAL
tOlM 1J.ODS .ISSNM3 UOJ SJLNSDV
Street.
-
.
■
HYDE PARK.
MASS.
' ■>;
«n
SBlviiiifli
i &
Si I
Blowers, Cone Wheels, Disc Fans, Hand Blowers, High Pressure Blowers,
Monogram Fans, Planing Mill Exhausters, Propeller Fans,
Steel Pressure Blowers, Special Fans.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED. WRITE FOR CATALOGUES and PRICES.
H. P. GREGORY & CO., Engin Mercha^, Chinery
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
, • -*V * .v.^
'‘ A’ ■ ' ' " -
mm 111*5
msm
j ■ ;-•*/
H '*
- 4
fe
Vi
S
sit
33W
wmm
.
1
The Boston Consolidated Co. s Stamp Mill, Utah,
The LARGEST IN THE WORLD under one
roof, where
312 NISSEN STAMPS
are installed, effecting a Saving of $14,000
per year in POWER ALONE. Their
gical efficiency effects an even greater economy.
is this not worth investigation ? ji
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
263 George Street, Sydney;
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
