

HE WAR S The Whisky for Men of Taste.
■*■ <*> ■*■ <*■ ■*• <•.—*> * 4. * A—* *» ~P. dh ,Ai A <fc , <*i J» * J*. a A. A O. ■»«»—A +■ , d*. ~ .*» —■*■ —dh ■
is?
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK—
ing and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery; Mining* Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
9
Wft, .Sxj&lt Sr Of
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston Suction
Gas Plants.
See Wild Cat Column.
treet, Sydney,
Bent
Ms
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
HOBART.
|t • ' — -*He;
jjadley’s Orient fiote!.
5*
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
p, v'.' ; Guarantkkd.
C. Ludowici & Son f Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
i
9+
I must have
9
PincAppic Brand
MAMS $
CHUBB'S SAFES
for JEWELLER
TABLETS’
uu&e
L
mn sens
fflGESia
Punketj
cmm
S233HS
u 'U& fyfrt.
r r
Ur-
THE SECRET OF iTS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE .
J&
V
A*
K
m
A
&
D
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
n
m
c
Now is the time to buy the coolest roofing for the summer months.
MALTHOID MINERAL ROOFING is the coolest, besides being
very durable and easy to fix. Send for Illustrated Booklet, post free.
*' **
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
? MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
c. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PS
tmk
Send fob Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
XV*.
MARTEUL’S brandy.
One Star (Si Three Star
The Helidon Spa Water Co*, in its extensive distribution, has
placed "tfre rational water cure ” within reach of all*
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
V 01.30.— No. 1555.]
[Thursday, December 2, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


BOOKS FOR “BULLETIN” READERS.
The Maxims of Methuselah : Being the Advice Given by
the Patriarch toTiis Grandson in regard to Women,
with illustrations, 3s 6d, posted 3s 9d.
Toasts and Maxims : a Book of Humor, Is 3d, posted is 6d.
Catchwords of Friendship ; 200 Sentiments in Verse and
Prose, 2s 6d, posted 2s 9d.
Hall, E. C.: Aunt Jane of Kentucky, 3a 6d, posted 4s.
Manners for the Metropolis: An Entrance Key to th®
Fantastic Life, by F. W. Orowninshiela, with decora-
tions, 3s 6d, posted 3s lOd,
Bath Robes and Bachelors and Other Good Things, by
Arthur Gray, 4s, posted 4s 4d.
HARRISON FISHER’S AMERICAN BEAUTIES, with floral SANTA CLAUS AND A SUNDIAL, by E. S. Emerson,
decorations by E. Stetson Crawford, 16s, p. 16s 6d. illustrations bv Percy Lindsay, 3s 6d, posted 3s lOd.
THE HEART OF THE ANTARCTIC, by E. H. SHACKLETON, C.V.0., 2 vols, fully illus., price 423, posted 44s 6d.
GEO. ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
/'ritchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault, 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. U.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
Si Briiisl)=flustralasiait
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
A>ri POST PRBE, £1 per year,
* MWC in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may he addressed care of
the Bkitish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingswayX
LONDON, W.G.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!!
son’s “Eumenthol Jujubes
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
Thk Lancet says: “ Proved tp be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interefere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
"1/0 in Stamps.
COMPANY, LTD.,
THE RED PAGE
The Coldest Country
IE an intelligent inhabitant of Mars
happened to see four men—foot-sore,
snow-blind, frost-bitten and gnawed
by hunger—struggling, day after day,
over an unspeakably bleak region of snow
and ice to reach an undistinguishable
point in the Frigid Desolation, he might
wonder more than at any other of the
strange deeds of Man. To get to an
utterly useless spot which no man had seen
before, and which once seen is not likely
to be visited again, might not appear to
be a very edifying ambition. Yet it is
quite characteristic of Man ; it educes his
best qualities, and the effort is productive
of more practical advantage than if El
Dorado had been discovered.
That Shackleton heard the call of the
unknown loud and insistent from the
south is clear from his own statement:
Men go out into the void spaces of the
world for various reasons. Some are actu-
ated simply by a love of adventure, some
have the keen thirst for scientific knowledge,
and others again are drawn away from the
trodden paths by the “lure of little voices,”
the mysterious fascination of the unknown*
I think that in my own case it was a com-
bination of these factors that determined me
to try my fortune once again in the frozen
South. I had been invalided home before
the conclusion of the Discovery expedition,
and I had a very keen desire to see more of
the vast continent that lies amid the Ant-
arctic snows and glaciers. Indeed, the
stark Polar lands grip the hearts of the men
who have lived on them in a manner that
can hardly be understood by the people who
have never got outside the pale of civilisa-
tion. I was convinced, moreover, that an
expedition on the lines I had in view could
justify itself by the results of its scientific
work.
Everybody knows the story of Shackle-
ton’s expedition, in rough outline at any
rate. The complete account is now pub-
lished under the title of The Heart of
the Antarctic (from W. Heinemann, pub-
lisher, and Dymock’s Book Arcade).
That the scientific results do justify the
effort is evident to a layman. Irrespec-
tive of these, the record of the prepara-
tions, the journey and the return, in
two substantial volumes, is one of the
most interesting travel stories ever
published. The great majority of travel
books have the advantage of bringing
before the reader other varieties of man-
kind, as well as unfamiliar animals and
scenery. Polar exploration is without
the interest of strange human life. There
is very little animal life of any kind;
beyond a certain point, none at all.
In the Arctic circle the scenery is
monotonous, and Nansen’s Farthest North
was infected with its dreariness. Down
South they had mountains and glaciers
in profusion, and they made the most of
the penguins and the seals. But with all
other disadvantages, Shackleton makes a
fascinating book by interesting the reader
in the men who went with him, the
details of their life on the Nimrod and
at the Winter Quarters, the adventures
of the various sledging parties, and the
constant fight with Nature at her
trickiest. And it has a special attrac-
tion for Australians in that three mem-
bers of the party hailed from this
country, and the taxpayers of Australia
and Maoriland contributed their mite
towards the <£44,300 which the expedi-
tion cost.
The account by Dr. Mill of previous
Antarctic exploration is a useful in-
troduction. Shackleton tells his own
story very simply, and from the time the
Nimrod left Lyttelton on the Ist January, ;
1908( the career of the little party is
followed with eager interest. After i
landing at Cape Royds, there was plenty
to oceupy the party until the winter set
in, and even then, with a good equipment
and artificial light, life was not unbear-
able. At the beginning and end of the
long night there were sights which com-
pensated for the darkness:
Tongue and pencil would sadly fail in
attempting to describe the magic of the
coloring in the days when the sun was leav-
ing us. The very clouds were iridescent
with rainbow hues. The sunsets were poems.
The change from twilight into night, some-
times lit by a crescent moon, was extra-
ordinarily beautiful, for the white cliffs gave
no part of their color away, and the rocks
beside them did not part with their black-
ness, and the effect of deepening night over
these contrasts was singularly weird. In
my diary I noted that throughout April
hardly a day passed without an auroral dis-
play.
It is worth noting that at the winter
• quarters Browning and The Pickwick
Papers were read aloud to while away
, the time ; on the Mount Erebus expedi-
, tion Paradise Lost was the only book
carried, and on the march towards the
Pole Shackleton took Shakespeare’s Come-
dies, Marshall—Borrow’s Bible in Spain,
, Adams—Arthur Young’s Travels in
, France, and Wild— Sketches by Boz.
i Before the end of the journey Shackleton
. mentions that “we have nothing to read
now, having depdted our little books to
save weight; and it is dreary work lying
( in the tent with nothing to read and too
, cold to write much in the diary.”
Shackleton prints his diary of the
heroic march to Farthest South prac-
-1 tically as it was written, and one would
, not wish a word of it away. This is a
note added afterwards to one of the
entries :
It falls to the lot of few men to view land
not previously seen by human eyes, and it
was with feelings of keen curiosity, not un-
mingled with awe, that we watched the new
mountains rise from the great unknown that
lay ahead of us. Mighty peaks they were,
the eternal snow at their bases, and their
rough-hewn forms rising high towards the
sky. No man of us could tell what we would
discover in our march south, what wonders
might not be revealed to us, and our
imaginations would take wings until a
stumble in the snow, the sharp pangs
of hunger, or the dull ache o'f physical
weariness brought back our attention to
the needs of the immediate present. As
the days wore on, and mountain after
mountain came into view, grimly majestic,
the consciousness of our insignificance seemed
to grow upon us. We were but tiny black
specks crawling slowly and painfully across
the white plain, and bending our puny
strength to the task of wresting from Nature
secrets preserved inviolate through all the
ages. Our anxiety to learn what lay beyond
was none the less keen, however, and the
long days of marching over the Barrier sur-
face were saved from monotony by the con-
tinued appearance of new land to the south-
east.
The Barrier, by the way, was as
changeable as the sea, and much more
dangerous. Crevasses, almost hidden by
snow, lay in wait for the travellers, and
blizzards flattened them out at frequent
intervals. It gives one cold shivers to
read of those terrific storms in which the
air became a sea of snow raging north-
wards at an incredible speed. After the
Barrier had been passed, Shackleton,
who seems to be fond of poetry, must
have thought of Christina Rossetti’s
lines :
Does the road wind up-hill all the way ?
Yea, to the very end.
The last of the ponies had gone long
before they made that toilsome ascent of
the plateau on which the Pole is located,
and the question of food was in their
minds from morning till night, as there
was so little of the real thing in their
stomachs.
During the last weeks of the journey out-
wards and the long march back, when our
allowance of food had been reduced to twenty
ounces per man a day, we really thought of
little but food. .. . Man becomes very
primitive when he is hungry and short of
food, and we learned to know what it is to
be desperately hungry. I used to wonder
sometimes whether the people who suffer
from hunger in the big cities felt as we were
feeling, and I arrived at the conclusion that
they did not, for no barrier of law and order
would have been allowed to stand between us
and any food that had been available.
The return journey was a dreadfully
severe one, for in addition to their other
troubles the weary travellers were
weakened by dysentry. They were a
long time overdue, and the Nimrod was
on the point of leaving when Mackintosh,
while walking on deck, suddenly became
excited and said : “ I feel that Shackle-
ton has arrived at Hut Point.” He
went up to the crow’s nest and saw
Shackleton’s signal.
It is not by any means a one-man
story. Shackleton gives the fullest credit
to every other member of the expedition.
The ascent of Mt. Erebus was almost as
remarkable a feat as any. Some of the
episodes, such as that of Macintosh, who
lost his way on the ice while carrying
letters from the Nimrod, are thrilling
enough for anybody ; and the journey of
Professor David, Mawson and Mackay to
the South Magnetic Pole was only less ex-
citing than the attack on the other Pole.
Professor David’s narrative, however, is
not so lively as his letters which were
printed in the newspapers. It is at a dis-
advantage in coming after Shackleton’s
story, and it loses the interest of the pen-
guins, which were taken over and fully
described in. an appendix by Murray, the
biologist.
The maps show that a peak of respect-
able height has been named after Deakin.
During the heat and turmoil of politics it
may comfort him to think of that chilly
spot. The liberal supply of photographs
greatly help the reader to realise the
places described and the life of the party
in Antarctica. By the time the book is
finished you have become well acquainted
with each of the members, and you are
left with the impression that while all
had courage and endurance, Shackleton
had also the skill and forethought of an
able general.
Ogilvie on His Native Heath
When Will H. Ogilvie was in Australia he
more than once informed us in verse that
his heart was in the Highlands, and after his
return to Caledonia he wrote of her with in-
creased fervor to atone for his temporary
dalliance with the Bush. A recent anthology
styled The Triple Crown (Oxford University
Press), “ a book of English, Scotch and Irish
poems for the age of six to sixteen,” contains
seven poems by Ogilvie as a Scottish bard.
Some of these were first printed in The Bul-
letin ; three are new and not so good.
Ogilvie has also published Whaup o’ the
Bede , a Ballad of the Border Raiders (T.
Fraser, Dalbeattie, N. 8.). “It is written
down,” says the preface, “ from the fulness
of a heart that loves every leaf and grass
blade on the Borders, and it is written
for those understanding people whose heri-
tage is the memory and legend that wraps
romance around the Marches.” For such
people it will no doubt have a peculiar value.
For outsiders it will immediately recall
Scott, and the poem is one that Scott would
not have been ashamed to own. The story
is of the good old style that was vastly
popular in the days when the minstrel told
yarns in verse to the Lord of the Manor and
his pals after they had filled themselves
with mead, or sack, or whatever brew was
handy. But even Scott found that his public
preferred such tales in prose. So Wlw/up o’
the Bede is only for the ‘ ■ understanding
people.” Though Australians may regret
that Ogilvie has lost the first fine careless
rapture of his Bush lyrics, they can read
this Scottish ballad with some interest, ana
here and there the narrative is relieved by
songs like this :
Ho ! for the blades of Harden !
Ho ! for the driven kye !
The broken gate and the lances’ hate
And a banner red on the sky !
The rough road runs by ttie Carter;
The white foam creams on the rein;
Ho ! for the blades of Harden !
“There will be moonlight again 1”
The dark has heard them gather,
The dawn has bowed them by,
To the guard nn the roof comes the drum
of a hoof
And the drone of a hoof’s reply.
There are more than birds on the hill to-night
And more than winds on the plain !
The threat of the Scotts has filled the moss,
“ There will be moonlight again l”
Ho ! for the blades of Harden !
Ho ! for the ring of steel!
The stolen steers of a hundred years
Come home for a Kirkhope meal 1
The ride must risk its fortune.
The raid must count its slain,
The March must feed her ravens.
“ There-will be moonlight again !”
Ho ! for the blades of Harden !
Ho ! for the pikes that cross !
Ho ! for the king of lance and ling—
A Scott on the Ettriek moss !
The rough road runs by the Carter,
The white foam creams on the rein;
And aye for the blades'of Harden !
“There will be moonlight again !”
For Presentation
Hodder and Stoughton hare sent us a
number of their Days with the Potts (per
W. Dymock). Each gives some information
about the life of a well-known poet—Tenny-
son, Browning, Burns, etc. —with extracts
from poems and good colored illustrations.
Any of them would be suitable for presenta-
tion to young people at Christmas.
Australia is beginning to turn out her own
supply of Christmas books. Amy Macks
Bush Calendar (Angus and Robertson) is an
excellent thing for a Christmas present, and.
we should think that E. S. Emerson s Bird
Calendar would be worth reprinting from
The Lone Sand for the same purpose. How-
ever, Emerson turns up just now with a pleas-
ant little Australian Christmas fantasy for
children— Santa Claus and a Sun-Dial (Geo.
Robertson and Co.), with illustrations and
decorations by Percy Lindsay. It would be
more appropriate for Australian children
than most of the imported books of the same
kind.
♦
About the best example of the bad novel
which has come our way lately is The
Penalty , by James Blyth. He does not
know how to write, but every now and
then pokes his head out of the story
to preach. We all know the pious frauds
who go about sniffing for vice which they
may expose in print with unctuous enjoy-
ment. Almost as bad is the man who assails
conventional virtue, dwells on the details of
his heroine’s “ fall,” and protests that she is a
pure woman. She might be as pure as Hardy s
Tess if she were alive, but she hasn’t the
semblance of reality about her. Nor is there
the breath of life in any of the other charac-
ters in this tedious botch of a book.
♦
Art and Architecture , for Sept.-Oct. (W. Brooks
and Go.), contains an article by D. H. Souter on that
clever younjr landscapist, J. J. Hilder, which will interest
many. P. N. Barnett writes well on the book plates of
W. Phillips Barrett, an artist born in Maoriland.


nee
No. 0112 —Nightdress in Madapnlam,
Trimmed Imitation Torchon Lace,
Bending and Ribbons, 8/6.
318
No. 318.—Combinations in Nainsook,
trimmed Valenciennes Lace, with
Insertions and Ribbons, Women’s,
5/9 ; 0.5., 6/6.
6
%
203
No. 208.—Chemise in Fine Lonffdoth,
trimmed Embroidery, with Medallions and
Bibbons, Women’s, 3/6 ; 0.5., 3/11.
lx/
1
m
77 a
No."77B.—Nightdress in Nainsook, Trimmed
Valenciennes Lace Insertion and Bibbons, 14/-
FOR FAMILY DRAPERY
Ik
Try a Course of Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Top Quality at Bottom
Price is the Golden
Rule at the NEW
PALACE EMPORIUM.
320
No. 320. Combinations in
Madapolam, trimmed Imita-
tion Maltese Lace with Bead-
ing and Ribbons. Women’s,
7/- ; 0.5.. 7/6.
No. 132—Combinn-
tions in Nainsook,
trimmed Torchon
Lace, Insertion and
Ribbon, 5/-
No. 321. —Combinations in
Madapolam, Trimmed Imita-
tion Maltese Lace, Beading,
Insertion and Ribbons,
Women’s, 7/- ; 0.5., 7/6.
No. 1371.
coat,
tucked,
trimmed
-Princess Petti-
Madapolam,
inserted and
Real Torchon
Lace, 21/-
2/8
No. 218.—Combinations in
Lonfroloth, Trimmed Em-
broidery and Insertion,
Heading and Ribbons,
Women’s, 6/9 ; 0.5., 7/6.
S3A&
No. 1606. Oombina-
tions in Nainsook,
Trimmed Torchon
Lace and Insertion,
7/11.
Many other charming styles are illustrated
in our Price List of Ladies’ Underclothing.
Write for a copy, posted free on application,
and reap the full measure of economy always
to be found in
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Consult our Illustrated
Price Lists for anything
you want. Write lor copies,
posted free on request.
m
No. 305.—Madapolam Chemise,
inserted and trimmed Torchon
Lace, 3/3.
No. 652 —Combinations in Mad op'dam,
trimmed Imitation Torchon Lace
Beading and Ribbon, 4/6-
TERMS:
SPOT CASH ,
300\
No. 300—Nightdress in Madapolam, trimmed Torchon
Lace, Insertion and Ribbons. Women’s, 4/3 ;
0.5., 5/-
No. 206.—Nijfbtdress in Madapolam, trimmed
Embroidery and Beadinjr, Insertion and Ribbons.
Women’s, 10/6 ; 0.5., 11/-
No. Sol).—-Nightdress in Aladapolam,
Trimmed Imitation Torchon Lace
and Ribbons, 5/-
No. 400.—“Nainsook Nightdress,
trimmed with Valenciennes Lace,
Insertion and Tucks, 5/11.
W*
m
m
o. 177 —Nightdress in Nainsook, trimmed
eal Torchon, Swiss Insertion, Beading, and
Ribbons. 12/-
No. 122.—'Chemise in Nainsook,
Valenciennes Lace and Ribbons
Trimmed
, 2/9-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace E/nvpori\im,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape » BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
also Supplementary Cata-
logue of FREE-ACTING
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Life and Battles of Jack
Johnson, World’s Cham-
pion, illustrated, 10d.
Wrestling, by Frank
Gotoh, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose -Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pasdia, latest edition, 124 S
pa-res, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. IJow to .Mesmerise. 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
m
173 W 3
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price Cd. ; post
free, Bd.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Tim Arovf, Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourko St., Melbourne.
▼ ▼TVTVTTTTVTTVVTmrTrTTTTTT
WWWWW WWW * WWW
I
R
0
D
\\u I ///////
THE CHARM OF CYCLING
is increased a hundred-fold when your Bicycle is fitted with a
BROOKS SADDLE.
Thousands of Cyclists have realized that fact—you should do so
too—as also that no other Saddle can even approach the
BROOKS in the matter of comfort and durability!
Write then for Art Manual, and remember the BROOKS is
stocked by all Ag'ents.
J. B. BROOKS & CO. Ltd., The Saddle Specialists, BIRMINGHAM
ENGLAND.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
BOVRIL
Tempts you to Eat and Feeds you.
Whether at home, at the office, in the restaurant, or in the
theatre, a cup of Bovril is easily and quickly procured.
ALWAYS INSIST UPON BOVRIL, AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
<\ i <
1 •'H \\
V* > V
rt *
v£M V >
'MV\V\\\UV
ms
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s •; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Cen only be obtained irom
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY ;
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Next Distribution of Cash Surplus as at 31st December, 1909.
Every participating Policy issued in the Ordinary Department, previous to the close of the current J tar »
will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for the year 1908, £740,385.
Total Bonuses distributed, £ 14,336,892.
The Society being a purely mutual institution, the whole of the profits realised are divided among t e
participating Policy-holders. There are no Shareholders to first claim a share of the amount.
Accumulated Funds, £24,600,000. Annual income, £3,160,000.
Assurances can be effected for any sum up to £lO,OOO. For full particulars write to the Head Office, H 7 Pitt
Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., ROBERT B. CAMERON,
General Manager and Actuary. Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and Mix*. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
JAY
5
8
W.R*
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: J. & R. NIORLEY & CO. and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
The Best NERVE MEDICINE
FOR WEAK-NERVED WOMEN IS
CLEMENTS TONIC.
MISS OLIVE GODWIN,
Miss OLIVE GODWIN, leading- lady of Mr. J. C.
Williamson’s “ King of Cadonia ” and “ Belle of New York ”
Companies, writes from Her Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney,
declaring Clements Tonic is the best nerve and blood medicine
she has known. She says it is invaluable for women.
Read her letter :
Clements Tonic Ltd. October 10, 1909.
Using Clements Tonic during my Australian season,
I must admit the value of this most efficacious blood
and nerve medicine. Deriving such permanent benefit
from it, I can justly speak in favor of its remarkable
nerve-strengthening properties. 1 have improved much
in health, my nerves are sounder, my appetite im-
proved, my capacity for study is greater, proving
the medicine in itself must be possessed of sterling
health-creating constituents. I consider in cases of
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN AND ANAEMIA it
would be invaluable. One could not do better than
try it for speedy restoration to health and strength.
(Signed) OLIVE GODWIN.
In cases of anaemia, nervousness, weakness, debility, or melancholia in women no
medicine contains such effective properties to cure and relieve as Clements Tonic and
this letter is straight to the point from Mrs. FRANCES PARKINSON, Bund’emar
Hotel, via Trangie, New South Wales. She writes :
“ A few lines in reference to your Clements Tonic as a medicine. I think it my duty
to inform you of the benefits I derived from taking it I suffered very much from
indigestion. I saw an advt. of your tonic ; I took altogether eight bottles, and lam now
cured. Before that I could not sit behind a horse for nervous fears. Now I can drive a
trap and pair. We are How keeping an hotel, and my customers remark what
A DIFFERENT WOMAN I AM, and I tell them all I have to thank is Clements
Tonic for the good it has done me, as I feel completely cured.”
(Signed) FRANCIS N. PARKINSON.
♦
These are the letters that the sick, dead-to-the-world, tired-of-life woman should read and act
upon. As this woman was cured, so can others be. This remedy is the standard Australian blood and
nerve regenerator, and no unhealthy woman should he without it. All grocers and cheiyiists sell it
everywhere. It is only another name for permanent health. It is the sure restorer of virile power. [0


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
now in London
writes under
> date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 55 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
Mger’s
flair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Aver & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S./V
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
ia allowed on every cycle bought of ua. Your
money in full refunded with utquistion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS . _ ...
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Bim brakes, variable geara
andalliates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to anv port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogue*
and our medal offer on sample machine. '
MEAD CYCLE COo, Dept. 280 Liverpool -
£3oW to £9
ACTIVE AGENTS
ANTINEURASTHIN
actually rebuilds the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve centres.
ALL NERVE TROUBLES
can be speedily cured by the use of this food. Its effect
is rapid and permanent. The general feeling of health at
once increases, and a feeling: of energy and mental vigor,
with consequent power of concentration of thought and
application to work, is obtainable. Headaches and
neuralgic pains, and digestive derangements are
promptly banished, and the patient experiences a
renewed pleasure in life.
IT IS FUTILE
to take drugs and tonics when the nervous system is run
down and debilitated. '
They may-rouse the system just as the whip may urge
the flagging energies of a worn-out horse. The temporary
over-stimulation is inevitably followed by a harmful
reaction, due to the drain on an already enfeebled ner-
vous system, and the body is left with weaker powers of
resistance, and therefore less able to bear fatigue than
before.
IT IS DANGEROUS,
as well as useless, to take tonics and drugs—the com-
position of which is unknown.
There is no secret about
A NTiNEURASTHiN.
Every person applying will receive an exact analysis,
endorsed by the worid-famous analyst,
W. LASCELLES-SCOTT,
whose opinion gives the hall-mark of scientific investi-
gation.
ANTINEURASTHIN is guaranteed not to contain
either STIMULANT or SEDATIVE. It is a natural
FOOD, based on true scientific principles, being com-
posed of such organic materials as are contained in the
Nerve substance itself. A descriptive treatise and
analysis will be forwarded, together with trial sample, on
receipt of one shilling in stamps or postal note, by the
Wholesale Distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
H. A GODDARD, Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
ORLICK’S
, MALTED MILK
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlick’s Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
full diet
sick-
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL \+
CLIMES
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time f
Horlick’s
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples : 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MALTED MILK Ltd.. Slough, Bucks., Eng.
YOUR EYESi
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF■.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT l
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/*. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne,
kTBTRcToW?:
•BONNIN CTO Nfc
UiiaHMOSS
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPINC COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNCS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHINC.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. JACK*’ Brand. Fulfils the requirementx of the “PURE FOODS ” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS. LTD.. Pitt St.. Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
BUST
DEVELOPMENT !
26-
"&•&
Nature intended woman to possess a Bust
Measurement in proportion to her height.
Are you deficient? Let us tell you
how FLESFLFOOD develops the bust
to normal and increjses the weight.
Send 2d. Stamp for Full Particulars
and FREE SAMPLE of Treatment.
Falliere Flesh - Food Co.,
.Dept. 5, Linden Court, Sydney m
A LIGHT TREAD
When you wear Wood-Milne 1
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly —your step is light and
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the
nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wood-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
I WOOD-MILNE
[RUBBER HEELS
are made in Britain, from new,
resilient: rubber: they enable you
to walk without fatigue, and give
'a surprising feeling of buoyancy
and vigour.
Look for the name Wood-Milne on
every heel, and refuse all imitations.
3533
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hnnyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, &c.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS" says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity ”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par*
of the Label. tp
CAUTION.
REAL| I
[liqueur 1
PQ:m
§
ißealliqueurWbjskl
I*C«Mlh D'atilUry l w
■ t_s*«l|Tot»
OflAMir SCOTtAMO
TTflf
'UIBUIiUJ
GOOD REASONS
FOR TESTING
Every drop is bottled by our-
selves, thus—and thus only can
we guarantee its quality, age and
flavour.
The entire production ot our
Century-old distillery is devoted
to Old Orkney
The pure Spring water trom the
heather-clad hills ofOrkney gives
to 0.0. its great superiority
We always hold a 10 years'supply
in our own bonded warehouses.
Thus, wherever you buy it, 0.0.
is always the same.
Write for beautiful booklet en-
titled “ Farthest North,' and
nearest 0.0. Agent, sent post
fr»e from
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C.
Proprietors of
Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
r op\
Odpsmi
OLD
[ORKNEY j
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The Southerly.
All day the city sweltered in the glare
Of stagnant warmth ; all day the universe
Seemed drowned beneath an ocean of dead a r ;
The heat lay heavy on us like a curse.
Then o’er the city, limp and white,
The “ J. 8.” banner rose to sight !
Tired eyes were raised to see
The flag of truce upon its post,
The dripping banner with its boast—
’Twas coming, corning up the coast,
The roystering Southerly !
All day we dragged our feet and gasped for air
And breathed a moistened sponge ; and on the
town,
Sweating and oozing in a dank despair,
The Nor’-East swept the humid tropics down.
But with his sudden clamor lpud.
His gust of laughter and his cloud
Of dust, triumphantly
He brings his benison at eve; -q
And, whipped to vigor, we receive
At last our long-looked-for reprieve—
. The shrewd old Southerly !
For days upon a suffocating world
The fiery furnace of the West out-poured ;
Upon the coast the heat of Bourke was hurled,
And out of Hell the ancient menace roared.
When through the darkness swept a light—
A ruddy beacon blazing bright,
And we once more were free
To be ourselves iigain, again/
To wait the soothing of our pain
Beneath the rapture of fois rain—
The bluff old Southerly.
Outside, one locust creaking in the night
Reiterated maddeningly ; no breath
Sighed through the leaden curtains, and a blight
Of pulseless silence held us as in death.
When lispingly the curtains swayed,
A kiss of coolness on us played,
And from her lethargy
The pinioned earth in Wonder stirred !
Between our kisses soft we heard
The whisper of the promised word
Of Life —the Southerly !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Necropolis, Genoa.
So here they sleep, ■
Cared for with old affection and resptegj.
Lest they should feel some sorrow at neglect
Of those that weep.
Not cold and damp
In some tnoss-eovered vault or mouldy tomb ;
But each has here, to dissipate the gloom,
A little lamp.
And fair white stone,
Carven with art that shows the master-touch,
Of saint and cherub; lest they overmuch
Should feel alone. l
And immortelles
Are ever by their houses lying near ;
While, if they dream, across their dreams they
hear
, The chapel bells.
That love so kind
Be not acknowledged by forgetful dust,
Or that a silence meets this tender trust-’-
Ah, never mind !
ITALY.
C. G. A. COLLES.
Dance Programmes.
Pink and crimjson and silver,
Silken-tasselled and worn,
These programmes of old dances
1 chanced upon this morn ;
Fading fast in the sunlight
Out on the open plain,
They recall the flirts in their silken skirts
And the tap of the heels again.
And it’s ho ! for the sun and wind
And the scent of camels on the green hillside
But what’s a man to do in the dawn
But up and away and ride?
The pencil marks are failed,
I’ve made out two or three ;
Some of the old, pet nicknames
Seem almost strange to me;
Most I suppose are married.
Lord ! How the years have fled !
And it made me queer when I found down here
The name of a girl long dead.
Bdt it’s ho ! for the long, long road.
And the weary sighing of the resting team !
But what’s a man to do in the dusk
But wonder and smoke and dream ?
Polka, schottische and barn-dance—
([ had the last with May !)
Almost I hear the music
That no one plays to-day !
I had forgotten nearly !
Have they forgotten me ?
(Who on earth was “O”? No it’s - ‘D” ! . . . 1
know !
Dolly ! Now who was she ?)
Yes, it’s ho ! for the dances past,
For the waltz with Dolly and the polka too.
(Eight with Daisy and ten with Dolly,
But I don’t know which is who !).
s. a.
D. EGERTON JONES.


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING'S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Sapper Parties can be
en S' a §'sd for four to 30 persons. Banqueting - Room for
250. Seating - accommodation for 700 guests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 3.50
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can he purchase:! at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 fill 12, 2/6.
A Feature of "THE BURLINGTON ” is the
FISH and oyster, catering,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
AH the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen's Retiring: Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Ag-ents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill_Carbons_and^ Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE DV AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
mi
The Watch of
■lO
,8
o}* eqa !
Matchless Merit
THE WATCHWORD fIN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy’*—accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts —accuracy in assembl-
ing them —and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepea*s in the world.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ’’ Office
HOMOKORD (Homophone) DISCS
sr
DOUBLE FACE.
Adaptable to any
Disc Phonograph.
LENGTHIEST DURATION OF PLAY.
Most Durable Material. Lrrrgest English and International Repertory.
CATALOGUE SENT FREE AND POST PAID.
List of Agents furnished by the Manufacturers :
HOMOPHONE CO., Berlin, C 60, Klostmtr, 5|6.
m ui CD ;o , r>
J 50 3 m\°
m o a \c
—l tn -a VJ \-
m -as. ‘x v
se
?
<i
Ul CT D 3 31 t n
r a a m p
tmoft
--* m «& 0 \-
m at '
RUBEROID
is THE Roofing'
E.. RICH &, CO., LTD., Sydney & Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1555.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1909.
Prick. Gd.
THE MAJESTY OF THE LAW.
The “Right Thinking”: “There you are! Run ’im in. I give him in charge!”
The Law; “Yes, but lock at the size of him!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
T’rinted and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business , 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBEP.S.
(in Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tm? Biu.i.ktin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings Sterling you can have Tim Biu.i.ktin posted
regularly 1b you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Commonications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tin? Biu.i.ktin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad vertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case he addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Biu.i.ktin,” is the proper
superscription for "ropy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable, to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, HOOO words, are syecially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Letters, or Xewspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tin? Biu.i.ktin 'ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified ami stamps arc enclosed. But no
MS. ivill he returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tin? Biu.i.ktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line- or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
anil interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-Arawn —will be paid
for as a suggest ion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Thr Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/5 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and.
Gotcli, Luditate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— -Sl'he Central News Agency, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , B. C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co.; Stationers.
U.S. A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
llongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bullktin metal advertising plates,size 6'j»w. x lldn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Tfa^baZZeEwi.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1909.
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1909.
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 9.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Alf Vincent, Norman
Lindsay and other leading representative artists,
will be the finest Black and White work obtainable
in Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
This Bulletin Xmas Number is the anpual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us immediately to ensure
supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
THE SUPEEFLUOUSNESS OF THE
COMMON HEED.
On Thursday last the House of Representatives
decided by a handsome majority of 24 votes that
the mere people had no right to any voice what-
ever in the selection of their own Australian
capital. The vote was taken on Jabez Coon’s
proposal to submit the capital site question to a
referendum, and quite a number of Labor men t
including Carr, Webster, T. Brown, Catts,
Hall, Fisher, Watkins and Mahon, voted
along with Forrest, Cook and Fuller in sup-
port of the view that the referendum doesn’t
amount to much, and that the common herd
hasn’t sense enough to be safely trusted with a
large public question like that. So far, the
people have had less voice in this im-
mensely important matter than they generally
expect to have over a Dog Act. They
got no warning or notice of the Yassberra
conspiracy at last election, so it was impossible for
them to express any kind of opinion concerning
it. Even the name Yass-Canberra wasn’t invented
thfeu. The great fraud was suddenly hatched when
the people, having just elected a Parliament, had
no chance of a further say in public affairs for
three years. It was pushed on with the utmost
haste in the hope of getting it fixed and completed
and nailed down before the election of 1910 gave
the people—the mere ordinary, unconsidered, no-
account people—an opportunity to speak. Labor-
member Hughes even urged extra velocity on this
account; he wasn’t ashamed to advocate special
haste for the open and avowed purpose of depriv-
ing the people of any chance to exercise their
self-governing powers in this particular matter.
And quite a number of the Labor party
finished up on Thursday, as already mentioned,
by voting that the mere blamed old community
had no rights at all in the matter. After that the
Labor party had better drop the referendum off
its programme, and a large section of it would be
well-advised, having once got into line with John
Forrest and Joe Cook and Fuller and Bruce
Smith, to stay there. The company ought to be
congenial.
• * * *
So another step has been taken towards furnish-
ing Australia with a capital which one of its
warmest advocates, Senator Sayers, of Queens-
land, describes with satisfaction as a place which
nobody will inhabit except from necessity. “We
know that nobody will live in the capital city,”
said Sayers proudly, speaking of his favorite
’Betra, ‘"except Government officers, with, of
course, shopkeepers and others who will supply
their wants.” The reasons to be assigned why
Yassberra should not be chosen as the one
continental capital on earth are numerous
enough. It lies close to the most thickly-peopled
part of Australia, and Australia’s cities are already
huddled close enough together. It is so near to
Sydney that it will be under the journalistic
domination of the anti-Federsl, anti-Labor, anti-
Australian, Foreign-trade and Tory morning press
of that city. It is located in a barren region, if
one can judge bv the agricultural and pastoral
returns set forth in the N.S.W. Statistical
Register —a wretchedly barren region as com-
pared with the Dalgety country, assuming that
the recorded crops of the two localities are any-
thing to go by. There isn’t enough of the Federal
territory to prevent the unearned increment
created by the expenditure of Federal money slop-
ping over the border to enrich the private land-
lords beyond. There isn’t enough of it to
give an experiment at the public owner-
ship of land room in which to develop.
According to the report of the experts whom the
Australian Government appointed to consider the
locality, the water supply is quite inadequate for
a city of any size such as the capital of a con-
tinent ought to be, and all the lying that has been
done since can’t obliterate that report. What
water supply there is will be partly under the
control of the State Government. The supply of
water power is so miserable that arrangements
have to be made to bring power a long distance at
great cost from the Snowy River, on which Dal-
gety stands. As the Snowy won’t be Federal
property this divided authority or tenancy on
sufferance must lead to all manner of difficulties.
The rainfall of Yassberra is miserable. There
are over 60 meteorological stations in the N.S.W.
coastal and tableland districts ; the B wprst rainfall
in the lot is at Cooma, whence the waters flow
down toYassberrajandthesecond worst isatQuean-
beyan, right alongside Yassberra. The Federal city
is to be located on a little branch railway,
or dead end ; so the N.S.W. Government can, in
case of dispute, cut off its railway service with-
out causing inconvenience to any town in its own
territory. The original site lay across the Goul-
burn-Cooma railway, &o its trains couldn’t be cut
off without stopping the whole service on that
line; but that has been altered at Gregory
Wade’s dictation. The Federal seaport town at
Jervis Bay will have no fresh water except by
permission of the State Government, for there
isn’t enough ground for a catchment. It will also
have no salt water except on sufferance, for the
Federal territory is to stop at high water mark—
in fact, by reason of this circumstance it isn’t a
port at all. It will also be held on a dubious title,
being less than the prescribed 100 miles from
Sydney. The Federal territory will be in two
pieces, and these two pieces will be 100 miles
apart. They will be connected by a non-paying
railway, for the traffic from a capital which lies
off all the main routes of commerce, to a port
which has no water, isn’t likely to amount to much.
The climate of the proposed capital site seems to
be rather more bleak in the winter than that of
Dalgety, so far as can be judged from the records
of the adjacent observing stations. Queanbeyan
is close to Yassberra, but 'much lower, and there-
fore presumably warmer ; and the lowest tempera-
ture recorded at Queanbeyan during the last five
years covered by the figures in the latest N.S.W.
Statistical Register Jpage 728) was 19 and
three-tenths. Bombala is near Dalgety, but
350 ft. higher, and therefore presumably colder ;
and its worst record in the same period was 15£.
* ■« • •
The victory of the reactionary party in the
selection of the capital is a heavier blow to the
democratic cause than would be the failure of a
dozen coal strikes. The effects will not appear
so soon but they will last far longer. There-
fore it is interesting to consider the various
classes of people by whom this national
crime was committed. There were plain
anti-Federalists who held that the Common-
wealth should have the meanest possible capi-
tal as the next best thing to having no
capital and no Commonwealth at all. There were
Tories who wanted the Federal territory to be
small and barren, short of water, and with no use-
ful sea outlet, in order to discourage hateful
Socialistic experiments in the public ownership of
Commonwealth land and hateful Socialistic doings
in the establishment of nationalised industries.
These persons also wanted the capital where the
Tory dailies of Sydney could arrive early every
morning in order to discourage the growth of a
Federal democratic press on the spot. Then there
were State-Frighters, ; who held it a point of honor
that the Federal capital must be smaller and
meaner than any State capital, and who held that
in the interests of State supremacy it should be
placed where it would be under Gregory Wade’s
eye and as far as possible dependent on him and
his kind for communication, water supply, water
power, etc. And in addition tojjthese varied
folk there were the people who were tired, and
the parish-minded people who thought it didn’t
matter much, as the blessed old capital wouldn’t
be in their State anyhow. So the folk who
clamored for Yassberra consisted partly of oily
frauds who declared that they reverenced the place
because it was such a fertile and splendid spot,
and partly of frank, outspoken enemies like
Sledger of Queensland and Sayers from the
same place, who cheerfully admitted that they
supported Yassberra because it was so wretched a
locality that the Federal city, if planted there,
would, be a dead failure—a place, as Sayers put
it, that nobody would live in. Neither class of
supporter, however, seemed to have any delusions
about the advisability of letting the people have a
voice—they have had none so far—in the great
Yassberra swindle. The Tories who voted against
allowing the nation to have a say in the matter
only acted as might have been expected, for the
Tory regards the nation as quite superfluous, save
as a beast of burden. As for the Labor renegades,
vvho likewise voted that the nation was super-
fluous, they will presumably have some lame
explanation to offer between now and election
day.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Arrogance of the Coal Boss.
Two years ago, when there was trouble in the
N.S.W. coal trade, the papers were filled with
stories of the tremendous wages made by these
never-satisfied fellows, the miners. Somehow
that yarn has been dropped this time ; and it is
interesting to dig up a few particulars from the
South Coast to show why it has been dropped.
For instance (the So ith Clifton supplies the
examples—the colliery where the trouble really
started): —
Item 1. Pay ticket showing an admittedly fair average
pav for two men at Clifton for the fortnight ending
13/2/’O9 :
41 tons 1 cwt. at 2s. 3fd .. £4 14 10
2 yardage at 2s. 6d. plus 3 per cent. .. 0 5 1
£4 19 11
Deductions—Rent 145., doctor Is. 3d., coal
Is., Miners’ Accident Fund 9d., powder
6s. Bd. 13 8
£3 16 3
The above-stated rent and coal are for one man only; allow-
ing them as a fair charge to the miner—though the rent
is disgracefully high—the two would divide £4 11s. 3d.
for a fortnight’s work, or 225. lOd. per man per week.
Item 2. On October 1, 1908, the pay sheets showed
that only seven shifts were worked during the fortnight.
Tiie highest pay for two men was £ll, the lowest £6—£2
15s. and £i 10s. per man, without the deductions as
above.
Item 3. On October 15, 1908, there was only a four
days’ pay for the fortnight. The highest wage-ticket
was for £5 10s., the lowest“£2 6s. 9d., for two men—27s. 6d.
and 11s. Bd. per man per week, less deductions as above.
The proprietors’ reply is that the men don’t
always have to suffer broken time. Well, the
South Clifton Colliery got in full time—ll shifts —
only once in the 12 months (September 11). That
was sworn to in court, and not contradicted. The
two bloated coal-gougers who did best on that
unique occasion took home £l7 net —£4 ss. per week
per man. That was the record wage for two years;
and during even that wonderful fortnight the aver-
age wage panned out at 375. 6d. per week per man.
And yet, even though they got only this wretched
pay, they would have put up with it if they had
hail anything like sympathetic or even fair treat-
ment. But, instead of getting that, they were
subjected to pinpricks and petty extortions. The
coal-miner is used to spells of hard times; it is
part of his training. But when the hard times do
come—hard times when the pay amounts per-
haps to only two or three days in the
fortnight—he is surely entitled to all the con-
sideration that the boss can’ give him. If
he gets that he very rarely complains. Take
the case of the Moonta and Wallaroo copper-
miners, in South Australia, • for an example.
These men suffer in much the same way as the
coal-miner does ; for copper is a drunken metal,
liable to sell for £BO to-day and £5O or less to-
morrow. When it sells for £5O or less the Moonta
miner is a very few steps off starvation point.
Still, he doesn’t strike once in 20 years. The
whole explanation is that, when the Moonta miner
is reduced to such a state that he has every reason
to feel sorry for himself, he is made to realise
that the bosses also feel sorry for him. In-
stead of pin-pricking him at a time when he
is due for sympathy, the bosses make things as
easy for him as they can. The N.S.W. coal-mine
owner is, unfortunately, an entirely different sort
of animal. Arrogant at all times, he is most
arrogant of all when the men are worst off. When
they are earning good wages and can talk back
with effect, he is moderately civil; when he
knows they have had a bad time, and be-
lieves they can’t talk back with effect,
he acts just as any blustering bully would
do in similar circumstances. The public can get
some idea of the manner in which he handles
his men by the way in which he handled the State
Government's negotiations for a conference. His
bearing was so arrogant that at last even the
S. M. Herald had to turn upon him and tell him
to improve his manners. The Herald proceeded
then to say that it didn’t know what the trouble
was all about. Yet when it knowhthat, at a time
when men are suffering from poor pay and are
naturally in no mood to be trainpled on, the pro-
prietors are an arrogant, stiff-necked, overbearing
crowd, surely it doesn’t need to go-further for a
complete explanation of the whole trouble.
*
The Ruined and Decaying County of Camden.
The land-sale columns of the press are placarded
with the intentions of the John Hay family to
dispose of the freehold of the famous Cooloon-
gatta and Berry estates. Probably, however, the
prices demanded will be so high that the tenant
farmers will only make an exchange of landlords,
or rather they will swap the landlord for the
money-lender and get the interest bill instead of
the rent bill. It was the evil of landlordism
which forced the famous Illawarra district to hand
over the Kingdom of Cow to the Northern Rivers.
The backbone of the rich North Coast is the
farmers who were driven out of Illawarra
by the rent. Illawarra lies in the county
of Camden, a very long-spttled part of
N.S.W. where the big landlord got in early
and hung on with intense earnestness. The
results have been the same as usual. Between
the census of 1891 and that of 1901 the popula-
tion of Camden county only increased by 817 —
from 41,318 to 42,135. The improvement was
entirely accounted for by the growth of
the coal-mining towns; the rural population
declined by 777 —from 12,754 to 11,977- And
taking the county as a whole the male population
declined by 435 —from 22,208 to 21,773. Women
—some of them very old women —increased by
1252, but the sturdy breadwinners were getting out
fast between 1891 and 1901, and there is reason to
believe that they have been getting out much
faster since then. In his report -of the census o.
1901 Coghlan enumerated 22 townships as exist-
ing within the borders of Camden, and 12
of these were dj'ing. Four coal-mining centres
showed an increase, but among the 18 agricultural
townships in this old-established and splendidly
fertile region there were only* six which weren t
perishing off the face of the earth, and one of the
six accumulated only nine new inhabitants in the
10 years. Probably there was a picnic party from
some other district there on census day. These
are the really interesting towns of Camden, the
county where the big landlords are :
Population Population
in 1891. in 1901. Decrease.
Berrima .. 495 305 190
Bowral.. .. 2258 1752 506
Broughton Vale 424 322 102
Burragorang .. 531 492 .39
Gerringong .. 1534 1051 483
Jamberoo .. 2235 1291 944
Kangaloon .. 530 502 28
Kangaroo Valley 552 483 69
Kiama .. .. 2302 1769 533
Mittagong .. 1468 1210 258
Picton .. .. 1176 1053 123
Sutton Forest .. 436 375 61
And it must be remembered that Camden isn’t
remote from a market. It is right at Sydney s
door. It is a place with excellent water supply,
good roads and oheap sea-carriage, and two rail-
ways run through it from end to end. The freight
charges by these lines are low—so low that the
Illawarra line, through sheer under-charging, is
run at a constant loss. The section from Kiama
-tqNowra, which lies beyond the coal region but
'traverses a splendid agricultural country, costs
the State nearly £13,000 a year. The value of
land about doubled, and the landlords’ rents about
doubled when the line carfie along, and every
toiler in the his 2d. or so to sub-,
sidise the railway which enabled the landlords to
put up the rents till fertile Camden began to be a
place that it wasn’t worth a man’s while to live in.
Everywhere in this landlord-ridden county there
is decay. The area under wheat in 1908 (24,171
acres) was 7000 acres less than it was in 1904. The
total area under cultivation is fast diminishing.
Horses are decreasing in number. The cow is
dying out; the last figures show a drop from
52,287 milking cows in 1904 to 41,585 in 1907 (cow
figures for 1908 not available yet). Sheep (there
were 91.330 in 1905 and 144,958 in 1907) multiply
fast; this rich, well-watered county, right at
Sydney’s door, ,with abundant railway com-
munication and cheap sea-carriage, is drifting
back to the old grass and jumbuck condition of a
century ago. Yet there is nothing wrong with
Camden save the curse of landlordism. If one
looks hard at £lOO worth of land down in rich
Illawarra and considers how that value is made up,
he will probably decide, on a rough estimate, that
the details are something like these :
Pair value of land .. .. .. .. .. £lO 0 0
Improvements made by landlord .. .. 10 0
Capitalised value of roads paid for by the
community .. .. .. .. .. 20 0 0
Ditto'railways 40 0 0
Ditto artificial seaports . .. .. .. 10 0 0
Capitalised value of cheap child labor, as fac-
torylaws don’t apply to rural industries.. 10 0 0
Capitalised value of miscellaneous subsidies
from public Treasury .. .. .. .. 9 0 0
£lOO 0 0
Truly that heavy progressive land-tax is overdue.
o
Apple Island Closer Settlement.
The Select Committee that Tasmania’s Parlia-
ment was lately forced to appoint to inquire into
the working of the island’s Closer Settlement Act
has sent in its report, and .a blistering thing it is.
The Committee finds that while the settlers are
mostly an energetic, hard-working, practical lot,
they have been misled and bamboozled and hum-
bugged ; they have in many cases been put on im-
possible land, left without roads and drains and
generally consigned to chance or perdition, while
a few select persons have had everything made
pleasant for them. In detail the Committee
found that the Brinktop estate was quite unsuit-
able for settlement, and the price paid too high.
Frogmore is badly watered, and was also bought
at a price far beyond its value. Isandula is a hope-
less place, poor, scrubby, roadless and liable to
floods ; it is still mostly unlet and likely to remain
tenantless. Cheshunt gives the settlers a fair
chance as far as the quality of the land goes; but
the areas are too small, it is liable to heavy floods
and the C. S. Board has not kept its promise to
make roads. Mount Pleasant is decent soil, but
so situated as to be suitable only for grazing ; also
it*has little water. So much for the settlements
and the tenants. When it gets to the Closer
Settlement Board, the Select Commit.tee grabs its
axe and slashes round generally. The Board
consists of three Government-nominated members
—Mr. Counsel, a public servant, who is greatly
overworked and physically incapable of doing
all he is expected to do; Mr. Rudge and
Mr. W. F, von Bibra. The committee finds that
the Board knew next to nothing about the Act it
was appointed to administer ; that it bougi e pro-
perties in a casual, haphazard fashion ; that it
broke promises made to tenants ; that it showed
gross partiality in not insisting on residential
conditions; that the minutes of its p.oeeedings
are a shrieking joke—records of important trans-
actions being.* often undiseoverable, while large
accounts were often minuted as being passed for
payment without any sum being stated ; that no
records were kept of the sums paid or originally
asked for various estates ; and that the Board
allowed its decisions to be overruled by the Minis-
ter of Lands without any reason, and also with-
out any protest. It further alleges that the
Board allowed Leopold von Bibra, son of one of
its members, to take up a holding at Mount
Pleasant, in contravention of Clause 11., section
40 of the C. S. Act, he being then tenant of Dunor-
lan, a property worth £4OOO. It also allowed
Leopold to reside at Dunorlan, though under the
C. S. conditions he should have resided on his
block, just as other tenants were compelled to do.
The Committee further finds that W. F. von
Bibra and Leopold made misleading state-
ments in the matter of this Dunorlan lease;
also that von Bibka’s fellow-member Rudge
admitted he became aware of the Dunorlan
lease as long ago as last July, yet took no steps
to put right the irregularity. Altogether it is a
withering report for the Sleepy Island’s Parlia-
ment, and it remains to be seen what Tasmania
will do. With a Labor Government in office the
effect of the report could be relied on; but the
Speck boasts a Tory Ministry with individualistic
ideals and private enterprising ways; so it will
probably rub its eyes wearifully, murmur “ Let it
rip,” and doze along some more.


It was recently mentioned in the South Mel-
bourne Court that the huge sum of £83,000 was
owing to the Victorian Government by parents
whose children had been committed to the
Neglected Children’s Department. It is a heavy
load of debt for the general taxpayer to carry, and
it seems to indicate that the administration of the
Department might be improved. A case which
was lately heard at the Footscray Court throws
a ray or two of light on the Department
from "quite another direction. One David Bris-
tow was called upon to show why he had failed to
keep up his payment of ss. per week toward the
support of his son. The wife of David Bristow
appeared, and said that her husband had been ill
and unable to pay; but that she considered no
payment should have been demanded, as the
•‘child” was a strong young of 18, and
worked hard for the farmer withSwhom he was
boarded out. The mother of the laborer then
went ahead, and told how the “child” drove the
milk cart from the farm to the station, and did
other heavy work, for which he received merely
his food and shelter, whilst the farmer got his
services and 10s. per week from the Department.
Whereupon
Mr. W. Mitchell, J.P.: It seems to be a splendid
arrangement for the fanner.
Mr. Brown (Cbrk of Court): The fact remains that the
Department is put to an expense of 10s. per week, and is
justified in getting as much as possible of that from the
parents.
Mr. W. Mitchell, J.P.: How long is this arrangement
to last ?
Mr. Brown : The farmer is endeavoring to get the lad a
job. (A laugh.)
Mr. W. Mitchell, J.P.: It is not at all likely that he
will succeed when he gets the boy’s services for nothing
and 10s. per week to boot. I am of opinion that this lad
should be set at liberty and allowed to earn his living.
As payments had been made since the issue of the sum-
mons the Clerk of Courts withdrew the case with a view
to issuing a fresh summons.
It would be interesting to know how many Vic-
torian farmers are being subsidised by the Vic-
torian Neglected Children’s Department to shelter
and feed unpaid laborers; also this paper yearns
to be enlightened as to when young Bristow is
likely to be set at liberty to pursue a job where
he will get a few shillings and his keep, instead of
merely getting his keep and dragging his sick
father into debt.
»
“Taper”: a sidelight lit by the coal strike
illuminated the fact that Sydney, by reason of too
much congestion, has become a very inefficient
commercial centre. At the first hint that the
carters and waterside people might “ come out ”
the wool trade took cold shivers. “What,” it
asked wildly, “will we do with the wool if we
can’t get rid of it as quickly as it is sold ?” A
hollow voice answered “Dunno,” and straightway
sales were stopped. The railway people looked
at their bottle-neck and their overcrowded
wharves, and cried aloud, saying, “What in
thunder will we do with the wool if we can’t get
rid of it the week it arrives?” A still small voice
replied “Nuffin’,” and wires were sent north and
south and west bidding stationmasters accept
delivery of no more wool under any circum-
stances whatsoever. Very often a row of teams
was actually arriving at a' country station, and the
stationmaster was just in time to seize the front
horse by the winkers and hurl the whole outfit
back into the bush. The Congestion Policy cuts
things so fine that if goods for export are coming
into Sydney as usual, andj the machinery for get-
ting these goods away from Sydney is laid up for
even two days, the business of the whole State is
paralysed. And if some desperate revolutionists
got possession of and held the Red fern tunnel, it
is a solemn fact that N.S.W- would be, tq all in-
tents and purposes, a place without a seaport, and
it would have several thousand miles of railway
leading nowhere.
«
Some people are sniffing hard, and have an idea
that they smell something. They are coal users,
and they have had contracts with various people
for their supplies. They knew perfectly well that
they ought to have some sort of a stock, because
for months past trouble has been brewing in the
coal trade. Yet, try as they might, they couldn’t
get a stock in hand. The coal bosses or
agents would keep them going—they never had
a shortage—but there was always something which
stopped the coal boss or the agent from building
up a coal stack on the premises. Consequently,
when the strike happened, and the contract was
“off,” the coal-users had to promptly look round
for something to keep going with, and, instead of
paying 14s. or 16s. a ton, they usually had to pay
£2 or £3. It was just about there that they
thought they smelt something. It wasn’t for
want of labor that the coal wasn’t delivered and a
stock accumulated, because many of the mines
have been working only a day or two a
week ; but when the coal-users look at the
bill for the “famine” coal which had
evidently been accumulated somewhere —they
suspect that they have found out what it is that
is making the smell. And even if the owners
didn’t get much out of the famine price, the users
begin to suspect that the owners knew they would
howl if they could be forced into paying big
prices; and the more people who howl the better
for the owners as long as they can be got to howl
the right way—which is easy enough with the
“reliable” daily papers waiting to point out the
right way. So they begin to suspect that the
owners cordially approved, even if they didn’t
inspire, this beautiful little scheme of keeping the
public’s coal-scuttle almost empty.
With the Germans the Stated-owned coal-mine is
quite a commonplace institution. In Bavaria,
for instance, three-fourths of the revenue con-
sists of the profits from State railways, posts,
telegraphs, lands and mines ; and it is much the
same in Wiirttemberg and other States. The total
profits from German Government-owned coal
mines are about £2,000,000 a year. Wherefore
that unlettered ass, the Sydney E. News, lately
burst into verse as follows;
The Kaiser has a model State,
Where everything is up to date,
And work from five till eight
In fort}' coal mines, small and great—
All State-owned mines.
While armed men in millions stand
, On Swabia’s hills and Prussia’s strand.
Obedient to the Law’s command,
There are no strikes in that great land—
Likewise no fines.
The idea that armed Germans are always loafing
round “in millions” seems an incurable delusion
with the Australian Foreign-trade press. As a
matter pf fact, Germany keeps in arms, on land
and sea, just about the same number of men that
the British Government does—some 600,000. And
even if it kept a lot more, only a very incurable
mule of a paper would see in that any reason
why coal mines should be owned by Private
Enterprise.
“Kerani”: Some M.P. in Victoria or N.S.W.
might do a lot worse than ask for all the papers in
connection with the bridge over the Upper
Murray which the two States some time ago
agreed to build at a place to be mutually agreed
upon. Two sites were proposed, viz., Towong (a
Victorian township) and Bringenbrong (in the
centre of a private estate). Towong is the only
Government township on the upper river—there
is no other within 60 miles—and there are about
200 acres of Crown allotments there ; also it is on
the main road, and lies in the most direct route
between Corryong (Vic.) and Tumbarumba
(N.S.W.), the two principal towns in the Upper
Murray district. Bringenbrong is the biggest
private estate on the Upper Murray. The
absurdly low municipal valuation of the Victorian
portion is nearly £50,000, and the N.S.W. portion
is about twice the size. The bridge site is right
in the middle of it, between the two home-
steads of the proprietors, and the road leading
to it from the Victorian side is actually
leased by them as an “ unused road.”
N.S.W. Engineer Fraser spent a week examin-
ing the sites, and reported that the Towong
bridge would cost £1222, and the Bringenbrong
bridge £lB2B, the river being much wider at
Bringenbrong. The owners of the estate there-
upon offered to contribute £3OO if the bridge was
built there. So it works outTowong bridge
£1222, each State paying £6ll ; Bringenbrong
bridge £lB2B, Victoria paying £Ol4, N.S.W.
£614, and the big landlords £3OO. There are
hardly any small landholders at Bringenbrong,
nearly all there were having been bought out by
the owners of the big estate aforesaid; and with
the money the big landlords will save by not
having to build the bridge themselves they will
probably buy out the rest. The Vic. Minister for
Works promised a deputation the other day that
he would do nothing until he had full reports, and
yet on the estimates just submitted appears the
item *'£looo for the erection of a bridge over the
Murray at Bringenbrong.” So we see the beauti-
ful spectacle of a Government which thunders
about a graduated land-tax, and gives cheap thrills
with threats of land resumption, voting £lOOO to
put improvements on the biggest estate in the
Upper Murray district.
Mungindi (N.S.W.) is to have a railway to con-
nect it with Sydney. The distance from Sydney
is 494 miles; from Brisbane about 100 miles less.
The handiest thing would be to connect the place
with a good N.S.W. port at Goff’s Harbor,
about 250 miles away. The next best thing
would be to connect it with a good N.S.W.
harbor at Port Stephens, and then it would
have its sea outlet only about 380 miles
away, and the business might pay. The Govern-
ment says frankly that the connection with
Sydney won’t pay—that the long-dragged-out line
will be a big dead loss for many years. But it is
essential to build it in order to secure “ the trade
of the district,” even though the N.S.W. railways
might be a heap better off without the trade.
There isn’t much trade, for Mungindi has a
population of 330, and the line will cost £300,000.
But at present the trade drifts towards Brisbane,
and the blamed thing must be captured on pure
State Rights principles. This is one of the jokes
of the railway systems which are built solely" to
bring trade to the State capital. If Mungindi
was so close to Sydney that it must trade with
that city in any case, then it might have to wait
25 years for its line, even though it was twice its
present size and had four times the trade. It
is the fact that its scrap of trade goes to
Brisbane that makes it necessary to grab
the thing at any cost. In fact, N.S.W.
will probably go in deliberately for losing
£lO,OOO a year rather than let Brisbane have a bit
of N.S.W. trade out of which it makes just about
nothing. And it is equally willing to make this
loss to prevent the trade going to Coff’s Harbor or
Port Stephens, though these places are as much
N.S.W. as Sydney is. The Egyptians who humped
stone useless distances to make a pyramid were
brainy folk compared with the Australians who
uselessly hump wool twice the distance to make
a congestion.
It takes a lot to satisfy Fat and his papers.
Whenever mine-workmen have growled that the
bosses grabbed so much that too little was left for
those who did the toil, Fat has grunted—“ Well,
you get a mine and try it yourselves.” Now, as
soon as the Newcastle men took this advice and
seriously set to work to get a coal property or two,
they were yelled at and called conspirators, and
Fat remarked that the brutes who would sell pro-
perties to the union were traitors who ought to
be hounded out of the country. Also the Sydney
Telegraph raked up the history of a French ex-
periment of the kind, and, after reporting that it
failed, smacked its lips over the concluding re-
mark : "The story provides an object-lesson
in practical Socialism which may possibly prove
to be not without its value.” As a matter of fact,
it wasn’t Socialism any more than the little shop
in which a couple of partners do all the work is
Socialism; but, anyhoW, if this one case proves
that Socialism won’t work, the failure of the con-
cern run by the Telegraph’s one-time little tin
god, W. McMillan, proves that Private Enter-
prise won’t work either.
♦
Though Fat is quite sure that Private Enterprise
is the best thing in the world, Fat always wants
it to be its own Private Enterprise ; in short, Fat
goes on the line that Private Enterprise is a fine
thing for the man who supplies it, but isn’t liable
to be much good to the man who takes what it
has to offer. Some years ago a number of meat-
preserving works were built in N.S.W. and
Queensland, most of them by men engaged in
squatting. When the drought arrived the squat-
ters knew what was ahead, and mostly sold out
of these works. Also a number of other people
became squatters. Consequently, though there
are still a number of meat-works, the majority of
stock-owners are not interested in them. Of course,
that oughtn’t to matter, but it does matter a lot
—so much, in fact, that the stockowners are
arranging to form a ‘‘co-operative ’ co. to put up
more works, on the ground that they can do the
job cheaper for themselves than anybody else can
be expected to do it for them. Further, they say
that if there’s any profit in the business they
might just as well have it for themselves. Which
is exactly what the Socialists say. Yet, strangely
enough, the Socialists are called fools and mad-
men, and are urged to go away and learn the first
principles of business.
<«»
General Gordon, the man who runs the military
business in the Ma State, reckons there will be a
lack of horses to go round when the guns begin to
shoot. The battle business requires good horse-
flesh, and we have been wildly sending away
horses and—the folly of it—mares by the thou-
sands, including many to our friend the Yellow
Menace. The South African war drained this
country somewhat, and the demand has kept up.
Indian buyers are finding it difficult to fill orders
now, although prices have a lot to do with that,
as the military josses of Hind want horses at
their own figure all the time. But although the
smell of the motor-car now desecrates even the
bush, and the army of Bill and Jim mostly
humps bluey on a bike when it goes shear-
ing, the price of mokes keeps up. The same
cannot be said of the moke’s capability and
standard, and something will have to be done
in this horse-breeding business, Gordon s idea
is to copy the Austrian system. In Austria the
Government provides free stallions to serve
approved mares and has the option of buying the
progeny at a fixed figure for military purposes.
It isn’t a bad scheme. Of course it is rank
Socialism, but somehow Socialism is always called
upon now in unexpected quarters, when there is a
big emergency. But more will be required.
Veterinary inspection of stallions as a guarantee
of soundness from hereditary disease is now in
vogue in the Eastern States, but it ought to bo
compulsory and it isn’t. Also good vets, should
be sent out with a shotgun apiece to clean out the
hundreds of mongrels that are now breeding
weeds, as was done in England over 300 years ago,
when the decadent English horse called for reform.
Furthermore, asolid Federal hoof will havetobeput
down on the insane, cut-throat policy which allows
good' breeding-mares to go out of Australia to
other lands, where they will be utilised to breed
horses that may some day carry foreign armies over
our paddocks, while we cannot find mounts for our
national forces. An increasing number are yearly
being sent away, including thousands to Japan.
This is even worse than the criminal policy of
stocking South Africa with our best stud
merinoes in order to build up a strong competitor
in the wool market. Australia not only wants
Protection against things that come into this
country, but Protection against a lot of things that
go out—-things that we can’t spare.
♦
“ F.S.” : When Victoria appointed a Commission
a few years ago to find out where the awful smell
in the butter business came from, one of the best
things it did (holding its nose carefully while it
did it) was to recommend that all butter should be
churned reasonably close to the Cow. Cream is a
notoriously fragile article, and even under the best
conditions first-class butter can’t be made with it
after it has been bumped about for a day or two ;
but the conditions under which some of the city
factories received their mixed supplies made even
steerage butter impossible. The Commission
used such strong language about the explosive
cream that wandered into some of these foun-
dries that a Bill was even prepared ruling
out the city factory altogether. But Private
Enterprise wept so much that the Bill was washed
down a drain, and nobody ever fished it out again.
Consequently the old horror is getting into full
swing once more ; and in a recent week the
arrivals in Melbourne ran this way : Butter, 802
tons; cream, 230 tons. So the old smell
begins to rise as badly as ever. The stupid
Anti-Sosh farmer is himself greatly to blame.
He often passes by his own co-operative
factory to send his cream to the city, just because
the agent, in his desperate attempt to burst up
co-operation, offers him 6d. a can more than the
factory. If the farmer hasn’t got sense enough
not to commit suicide this way, John Weary s
Government ought to plant a hard and heavy
boot where it will do most good.
'__ — ■+- ,
The arrival of the camping-out season in Mel-
bourne, and the cheerful week-enders’ growing
habit of running down to the Bay foreshores
between Sandringham and Frankston, are making
some people think that, when they get a land-tax,
there shouldn’t be any exemption at all. Along
these reaches, a few years back, there was nothing
but open scrub, whiah scarcely anyone troubled to
visit, let alone annex. But now one can find
hardly an acre that isn’t fenced in and adorned
with the customary “For Sale” notices, and
remarks that “Trespassers will be prosecuted.”
Between these patches are humpies, houses
and villas by the dozen,' many also firing
at the wayfarer the information —“Tents,
furnished and unfurnished, on hire; camping
grounds to let.” So the person who wants to live
the simple life must now go right away beyond
Frankston, unless he is able and willing to pay
toll to the eternal land-grabber. Those Tories
who are perpetually trying to find the meaning of
“ unimproved value” of land have a concrete in-
stance of it in these strips of ti-tree and sand.
Five years ago they were worth perhaps £5 an
acre, and no more; to-day the estate agents
won’t listen to anything under £5O, and mostly
they want from £lOO to £l5O an acre. Yet,
beyond a light two-wire fence and the aforesaid
notice-boards, the owners have contributed not
one penny to the increased value, and they have
no more moral right to it than they have to the
Pyramids of Egypt. For breaking-up purposes
the graduated tax, with an exemption, will pass
muster; but for municipal purposes the tax on
unimproved values, without exemption, is the
right thing every time.
—
Ale over the Victorian cow-country, and more
particularly in the rich Western district, there is a
rush for men to milk and do general farm-work.
Some farmers haunt the townships, others frequent
the saleyards, A few advertise ; but, apparently
through the failure to give full particulars in the
advts., they are not meeting with much success.
The advt., if properly and truthfully written,
would run something like this :
"YX7'ANTED, a good, cheap man, to work 14 hours a
VV jay, for seven days a week. Must be a good
milker, up to 20 cows each milking. Also, should he
used to horses, in order to drive to the factory. In
between milkings he will be expected to feed the pigs,
cut thistles and eapeweed, plant potatoes, repair
fences and cut wood. Must not get too hungry ;
and must not go out at nights, as he will not be fit
for his work next day. Wages, 15s. to 20s. per week
and found. N.B.— He will be sacked in Jan. or early
Feb., when the cows go off.
Another variety of milking advt.—for a married
couple—is also appearing. Usually this advt.
stipulates for “no children ”; and to be reason-
ably complete it should read as follows :
-tttt ANTED, young married couple, childless (and
VV guaranteed to remain so). Husband must
do all the work mentioned in No. 1 adyt.; wife must
milk night and morning ; must also wash, iron and
cook, and do all the housework required, and be con-
tinually at the beck and call of the farmer’s wife.
Wages (combined), £1 10s. per week (of seven days).
If kept on in the slack season, wages to be reduced.
Naturally, most of the men apply for these
billets are the failures of other trades and profes-
sions. Yet this is a business well able to pay
good wages, and therefore capable of attracting
good men. Everyone, of course, is aware that
from its very nature the business can’t run the
ordinary eight-hour system; but there is no
reason whatever why the curse of wretched wages
should hang to the industry as well as the curse
of long hours—no reason, that is, outside the
greed of the cow-farmers themselves, and of
the big landlords to whom they sometimes,
but not always, have to pay rent. At present the
wage offered absolutely bars marriage, unless a
man is willing to live like a Chinaman or a black-
fellow and make his wife and family live the same
way. Therefore the cow-farmer is always cursing :
when he gets labor he curses because it is so poor,
but mostly he curses because he can’t get it at all.
The Land.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Unlock the Land , the idle Land t What man has
right or strength
To hold more earth within his hands than hides his
coffin’s length !
Where green with corn and grasses, gold with
harvest, red with rose ;
Blue where savannahs are unrolled, white robed
with mountain snows ;
Where ruins mark where Memphis stood ; where
smoky Londons rise;
Where dream-entangled jungles brood, or bush
primeval lies;
In smiling pastures, orchards, farms, wide wastes
of burning sand,
Broken or bare, the Earth hath charms; each
Land is Holy Land.
Unlock the Land , the wasted Land ! No man has
right to ovm
The riches of the Earth, demand the harvest God
has sown.
Fruitful, deep-bosomed Mother Earth, for ever
old and young !
From Her the gods have taken birth, and men
and beasts have sprung.
The stream of generation from her living fountain
flows.
From Her, the Mother, all has come, and to the
Mother goes.
All blessings, riches, all that grows spring from
her sacred soil. •
She flows with milk and honey, flows with mystic
wine and oil.
She hides her gold, her jewelled beams; she
clothes the flocks and herds ;
She gladdens life with trees and streams, sweet .
flowers and singing birds.
She guides the Seasons’ strange re-birth ; bids
cattle yield increase ;
She sends the Works and Days to earth, the gifts
of dreams and peace.
She cherishes what she creates ; she equally doth
bless
Man’s ceaseless struggle with the Fates, the lilies’
idleness.
She gives; she takes ; from labor hid, upon her
tender breast
A builder of a pyramid or spider’s web finds rest.
She soothes, she shelters, and she feeds with
sacramental bread ;
She satisfies,her children’s needs, the living and
the dead.
What is, and was, and yet shall be she stores as in
a cave,
The Present, Past, Futurity, the cradle and the
grave.
She is Dkmetkh. Ceres ; she is Isis, Mother Eve.
She is the Bona Dka we, her children, all believe.
Unlock the Land, the great rich Land! Earth's
holy fields are spread
Not for the money-changers' hank, hut for her
children’s bread.
For Land is Life, and Lords of Land rob God and
man; rent-rack
Their landless brothers, broken and condemned
to Hunger’s track.
The Lords of Land are Lords of Life ; they rule
earth, sea and air :
But landless men renounce the Strife, bound
thralls to Want and Care.
This daedal Land was made of old by God’s
creative mirth,
And, Landlords, who are ye that hold the trea-
sures of the earth ?
Ye cannot make a rainbow’s hue by Law of
Bought and Sold,
An ear of wheat, a drop of dew, one grain of
yellow gold.
Ye cannot loosen Storm-Winds out, or bind the
Sun in chains ;
Like Indra, kill the Demon Drought, and send
the roaring rains.
A color to the skyey tent, a softness to the snows ;
A song in the bird's heart, a scent within the
crimson rose.
Ye cannot add. Ye can but scoff and clank land-
locking keys.
Landlords, ye are but Eaters of Acres and Vil-
lages..;
Land is the birthright of all things that walk or
swim or fly.
Ever the old Commandment rings: “Increase
and multiply ! ”
Lind is a trust to man from God. And but by
right of toil-^
By Labor that must sweat and plod, man reaps
the fertile soil.
None can the elemental right of every man with-
stand ;
None can oppose the people’s might. The long-
abandoned Land
Calls to the Lost through slum and street. The
soil is waiting now
Her outcast lover and the sweet, sharp kisses of
the plough.
Dark forests wait the axeman’s tread. Lone sheep
runs l.ong to greet
Gay corn, and feel the living bread through all
their being beat.
Where now rage righteous droughts and fires, the
faery harvests dream ;
And through the shackled Bush the spires of
future cities gleam.
New Empire, Faith, Utopia within the dark soil
lies.
The Land, when Wrong is swept away, is Earthly
Paradise.
Unlock the Land! the Stolen Land ! What man
has right or strength
To hold more earth in feeble hands than hides his
coffin’s length !
VICTORIA.’
LOUIS ESSON.


The (one Hand
CHRISTHAS NUriBER.
jyOTICE TO AGENTS.—THE LONE
HAND for January will be the
Christmas Number of the Magazine, and
will be published on DECEMBER 23rd.
Agents requiring extra copies will need
to notify the office at once, as only a
limited issue of the Christmas Number
will be available.
Xhe^ieHand
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Franz Josef Lag'er Beer
SPARKLING, REFRESHING, EXHILARATING AND PURE.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality and character, being sharp, clean, and of light gravity.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents lor the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
and at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Adams' Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
TOO MANY STRIKES.
Tiik fact that strikes are becoming too numerous
in N.S.W. was borne in upon almost everybody
when Johnson, who isn’t even registered under
the Industrial Disputes Act, called himself out
last week. It isn’t known for certain whether he
picketed himself or not, and he presently repented
to some extent and partly went back to work
again, so that at time of writing he is half in and
half out; still, the fact that Johnson struck is on
record. Johnson was a rather unfortunate
addition to a long series of events. The coal
strikes began with the establishment of the Vend.
This was a league made by certain large coal-
owners for the purpose of striking against and
boycotting and destroying certaimof the smaller
owners and preventing them continuing the pur-
suit of their lawful calling. The owners inside the
Vend apparently reckoned that they could do very
well with all the trade themselves, and they
don’t seem to have been wildly scrupulous as to
how they got it. One of the smaller Newcastle
mine-owners, who was shut out of the Vend, de-
clares publicly that his customers were offered
supplies of coal below cost as an inducement to
leave him; that the Vend refused coal to ships it
they carried even one lump of the product
of the boycotted mine either as cargo or
fuel ; and that dealers were warned off
his product. People who traded in the
condemned coal seemingly had it; made pretty
clear to them that, as soon as the boycotted owner
was driven out of the business and could no longer
supply them, no one else would supply them, and
their businesses would close up. It is not alleged
that the Vend had any personal objection to the
owners who were shut out; it is simply charged
with having conspired in a business way to get all
the trade. That was the first strike of the series.
Nominally there is plenty of law to put down
trade conspiracies like the Vend, but nothing was
done. Nobody made even a pretence of doing
anything.
* * » s •»
Then the Vend struck against the public. It
declared that it would quit work—would leave off
the pursuit of its lawful calling as a coal-producer
—unless it got greatly increased pay. That is to
say, it shoved up the price of coal. No one re-
belled against the Vend’s strike. By habit and
old tradition and ancient privilege,'it has come to
be agreed that, when the owner strikes, the thing
won’t even be called a strike. It is rather
described as “the law of demand and supply,”
which is strictly accurate, for the bosses’ union
demands more money and won’t supply the coal
unless it gets it. This was the second strike—or
rather it seems to have been the second, third,
fourth, fifth and sixth, for the blessed Vend struck
so numerously that it is hard to follow its move-
ments.
* * * *
Next, the miners’ struck, despite the rich re-
muneration that was handed to them on a lordly
dish every pay Saturday. When wages are at
their best the amount a coal-miner can make in
theory looks very handsome, but a lot of things
tend to upset the theory. Even in the late pros-
perous period many of the mines were working
short time. Just before the strike the number of
mines which worked five days a week (that was
the maximum) was quite overshadowed by the
number which worked either one day a week or
not at all. That brings the alleged gaudy remu-
neration down, in many cases, either 80 or 100 per
cent. Even in the good mines all sorts of things
happen, in the shape of hard coal, bad working
places and the like, to cut down the actual pay.
Then the coal-miner has to pay per week to
the Accident Fund, and has tp buy his own ex-
plosives. Possibly he averages a brilliant 255. or 30s.
a week net for risking his life in one of the most
dangerous and unpleasant trades on earth. Yet,
despite all this, the N.S.W. coal-miners didn’t
want to strike ; it was certain of the owners who
apparently had a craving that way. Their object
may have been to secure the cancellation of a
number of contracts (contracts break off in the
event of a strike) which they believed they had
taken at too low a figure ; or to complete the pro-
cess of wrecking the mines that were shut out of
the Vend ; or to reduce wages; or to make it big
profit out of the coal stocks on hand. Whatever
may have been the motive, all manner of small
annoyances and deductions were invented. Still
the miners tried hard to avoid a strike. They
asked for arbitration, or for a consultation with
owners, or even for a mere meeting with them
soßfnWthey might state their case. They received
a flat every time. As the Sydney Tele-1,
graph unwarily put it, before the anti-Labor lie
had got into good working order and before
sufficient arrangements had been made for sitting
hard down on the head of Truth and keeping it
out of sight:
THE PROPRIETORS HAD DECIDED THEY WOULD
NO LONGER BE PARTIES TO THE SETTLEMENT OF
COLLIERY TROUBLES BY CONCILIATION, THERE-
FORE THE BOARD LAPSED.
There is supposed to be some kind of a law in
N.S.W. to provide for the settlement of industrial
disputes by arbitration, yet there, in the columns
of a violently anti-Labor paper, appeared the bald
announcement that the mine-owners were allowed
to shut down on the whole arbitration system and
leave their employees only two alternatives—to
submit to anything and everything or else to
strike. When the race becomes so tame that it
won’t strike under these conditions, then it will
be too tame to protect the mine-owner from the
first invader who proposes to take his mines
from him and hang him if he objects. This is
a point which the grand old capitalist always
overlooks. He wants the working class—the class
from which the army is recruited—to be a fine,
strong, courageous, high-spirited lot of men who
will fight to the last to. protect the country—and
incidentally the capitalist’s property—in case of
need. And at the same time he wants it to be so
tame that a mine-owner or a German or a Japa-
nese can kick it with complete impunity. And he
can’t get both things. Only an arrogant fool
would expect both things.
As soon as the miners had gone out the coal-
dealers struck about six times in red-hot haste.
They declared each time that they would no
longer follow their occupation of coal-dealing
unless they got increased pay, and by shoving
up the price of coal they increased their pay
(i.e., their profits) about 1200 per cent. And
after that Railway Commissioner Johnson did
his comic-opera strike, and refused, so far as coal
was concerned, to carry on his lawful job as a
common carrier at any price whatsoever. He
threw down his tools—his trains and his railway-
station and theotherimplementsof his calling—and
went into retirement. But apparently something
befell Johnson, for next day it was announced
that he had partially resumed work, and was will-
ing to carry coal if he was allowed to buy as much
of it as he wanted for his engines at a *' reason-
able price ” —evidently not the coal-dealer’s price.
As the coal which Johnson is liable to have
offered to him is coal produced by the co-operative
miners, from pits which they have hired, the
inference is that Johnson expects the miners to
sell him coal at a mere fraction of what he would
have to pay to the rich merchants and affluent
middlemen. Failing that, it seems as if Johnson
may go on strike again.
So the wheels of industry are slowing down.
Factories are closing wholesale. So are silver,
copper and other mines. Trains are being
reduced and trams are diminishing. Already
there is a perceptible dying out of the bustle in
Sydney’s streets. The place looks as if somebody
was dead—Senator Pulsford, maybe. Steamers
are being laid up, and the date when Sydney will
be lighted only by a candle appears to be in sight.
Even the problem of bringing in the bloated city’s
food supply looms up considerably ; as for wast-
ing the scarce coal supply to bring in wool from
t ie very far back, that is almost out of the ques-
tion. Still the coal-owners maintain their old arro-
gant attitude, and the blastiferous Vend doesn’t
bow its haughty crest worth a cent. The owners
refused to hold any parley with the men while
they were at work. Now they refuse to meet
them unless they are at work. The miners
offer to go back to work in this sense—that they
will supply men to clean up the mines and put
them in order for an immediate resumption of
business on a large scale if an agreement can be
come to. The owners reply with the wild laugh
of the kookaburra in the tree-top. Ifhe men ask
for an open conference. They are so convinced
that their case will stand the inspection of
even the hostile Telegraph and S. M. Herald
and Evening News that they want these papers
all to be there. The employers, apparently
feeling that neither their case nor their table
manners can stand inspection, insist that if there
is any conference it must be a secret affair
and held behind closed doors. The Wade
Government is apparently doing its best
according to its lights; but, unfortunately,
its lights are a trifle dim and its luck is rather
poor. The only permanent remedy lies in making
coal State—or else Federal—property; Seeing
that all Australia depends to a great extent on the 1
N.S.W. mines, coal should be Federal property. ;
If the present trouble lasts for another month the
people will then realise that almost all their in-
dustries and three-fourths of their civilisation are
built on coal. And the country can’t afford to
entrust its civilisation to those jeering creatures
who laughed the loud guffaw that betrays the
vacant mind, and said they were “going fishing”
when Premier Wade and Minister Lee invited
them to a conference. It is too much like leaving
a monkey in charge of an art gallery.
John Davies, M.L.C., of N.S.W. (he of
the three hats), used to warn Parliament that the
great mistake of the age was the education of the
working classes. And John, as a man who used
to date his letters “14 Tannery,” possibly knew
something. If he had lived until these coal-strike
days he would probably have reckoned that his
words were justified. The trouble with all the
people who complain about “ the education of the
lower orders” is the difficulty of deciding what
arc the lower orders. Each man considers that
they begin just below him on the wage scale.
Thus the hopelessly Tory peer doesn’t see what
farmers and commercial bagmen and miners and
their kind want with education, because, from his
pinnacle of pomp, the bagman and the miner seem
just about the same. The bagman may think he
sees the difference, but the other fellow doesn’t.
From the Old Soldier : „ y ,.
Certain officers of the Commonwealth staff, in conjune
tion with “ a number of ladies connected with the
Women’s branch of the British Empire League,” got up a
dinner at Sydney for a number of alleged “ veterans ” on
King’s Birthday, and this was a part of the show :
“ At the head of one table sat two Sikhs, venerable and
dignified, with a razor-edged quoit twisted into each of
their puggeries, in the fashion of their nation.”
Apart from the social crime of putting two brown per-
sons at the head of the table in a white man’s country, it
isn’t “the fashion of these brown persons’ nation ” to
wear murderous weapons in their headgear. The circu-
lar disc with a sharp outer edge and a hole in the centre
is common to all the dangerous classes of Northern India,
and is not peculiar to the Sikhs ; but since the disarma-
ment that followed the Mutiny, the police would lock up
anyone caught carrying it. It is more dangerous and
more dreaded than a sword, because it is a missile. The
person throwing it puts his fingers through the central
hole, raises and draws back his hand, and sets the disc
whirling rapidly; and when it has got momentum enough
he suddenly jerks the hand forward and downward, re-
leasing the disc, which flies forward, still whirling',
with force enough, if skilfully thrown, to cut off
the head or a limb of a person 50 yards away. Still,
I’m glad these two brown persons wore their Thug’s
weapon. It indicates the sort of dangerous people our
meek brown brothers really are. But to put them and their
murderous tools at the head of a white man’s table was
carrying the object-lesson a bit too far.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Zaza.”
Her Majesty’s “ Havana.”
Criterion “ Julius C*sar”
Palace “ The Wedding Ring.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Victoria Park Race-
course Wilbur Wright’s Aeroplane.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Lady Dandies.”
Theatre Royal “The Belle of Mayfair.”
Kino’s “Hamlet.”
Opera House.. Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
“Havana,” revived at Her Majesty’s
(Sydneypon Saturday, is the cigar handed to the
public by J. -C. Williamson at the end of the
musical banquet '; and it is timed to smoke for
three weeks from time-of lighting. It is a bright
after-dinner glow of color *«d music, and it is
meant to be taken lightly ; nothing but ash is in-
tended to be left when 11 o’clock booms out, and
the heavy-minded person who stops on the steps
to complain about its lack of solidity deserves to
miss his last tram —the one that Johnson has
abolished on account of coal-shortage. In the
present production, stage humorist Bert Gilbert
as Nix, the doleful bo’s’n of the Wasp, adds at
least 99 per cent, to the value of the show. In
his weary, sea-going garments he is an entertain-
ment by himself. He frequently co-operates with
the cheerful, boyish Percy with excellent effect,
but he only collides occasionally with the rest of the
gaily-attired co. Whenever the glow of “Havana”
dies down, the incurably gloomy bo’s’n limps
on and delivers a cargo of first-rate humor which
generally has no particular relation to the spooky
plot. W. S. Percy, his chief accomplice, is'ad-
mirably placed as Reginald Brown, tlfe yacht-
boy. The part suits his youthful nimbleness and
agile brand of humor, and he rattles hilariously
through it in white sweater and pants, and with
his hat as far as possible over one ear. Herbert
Clayton and Frank Greene, as Jackson Villiers
“HA VAN A ” AT HER MAJESTY’S,
SYDNEY.
Bo'sun Nix (Bert
Gilbert), the Don
Adolfo C Frank
Greene), etc.
and Don Adolfo, are the beauty men ; but they
manage to avert the hatred of the male portion of
the audience by being as natural as possible and
slurring the love-making—which seemingly has to
be included and gone through with. Olive
Godwin this time steps into the high-heeled shoes
of Florence Young, as Consuelo, the Cuban damsel
who owns the scenery and bosses the stage.
Miss Godwin acts moderately well, and does her
best with the music ; but there are occasions when
she has to wrestle unduly with the top notes.
Lottie Sargent, as Anita, has not very much to
do; but what she has is done With a snap and
finish that make you ask for more with loud
applause. Her dancing is always delightful; as .
you watch her you think she could safely pirouette
on the leaf of a water lily. (This statement is
written calmly on a cool day in sober black ink.)
Susie Vaughan, in the part of lsabelita, the
elderly lady revolutionary who dreams of being
Queen of Cuba, emphasise^ithe value of a talented
actress in a non-singing par,t. Indifferently done,
lsabelita is just the sort of part that would make
a crowded house yawn into its hat like a world-
weary hyena. Miss Vaughan makes the best of
her art and comedy experience, and burlesques with
discretion. The smaller characters are well done
by other members of the cu. whose only fault is
that they are too numerous to mention. The
costumes and props of "Havana” retain their
first freshness ; consequently there is a sensation .
of newness which is partly misleading, for it is
only a repeat order after all. The sparkling,
light music poured out by Leslie Stuart—the.
mixer of “ Florodora ” —is smart and joyous, and
sweeps the high-colored show gaily along on its
rippling surface without ever becoming still and
deep. “Havana” is only a musical after-dinner
cigar, but it is a mighty good one. And, as re-
marked before, it is to be alight for three weeks.
* -:K- iff -*
At Sydney Palace “ The Heart of a
Hero” will continue to be smashed and otherwise
damaged until Friday night. Then the battered
organ will be quietly buried in the tomb of the
past and be replaced by a military drama entitled
"The Wedding Ring.” Writer doesn’t know
“The Ring,” but it is probably the same old
drama over again, with the same characters wear-
ing different names and committing their Crimea
with a carving knife instead of a revolver, or
throwing each other down a shale mine instead of
a coal mine. The stock properties will doubtless
be the same old papers, the ancient murder and
the dreary eerie heroine who, under a variety
of aliases, goes always to the same devil by
somewhat similar paths. To appreciate these
creations properly one requires to take a course of
study in the law of melodrama; also its habits,
customs, and religious beliefs. It is really another
form of life, as distinct from that of every-day
people as we are from the Chinese. And yet,
amazing as it may seem, there are folk who
take drama seriously and try to people the world
with its characters. The evidence they give in
the police court about the alleged “ assault ” reeks
with cheap drama. The weirdest case this writer
ever knew was that of a young lady who based
her legal actions towards an alleged bad man on
the same old play, and when she gave her evidence
she declared that she said to the bad man, “Touch
me not, lam a woman ! ” The magistrate fell off
the bench.
* * *
Sweet Nell, of Sydney Royal, is only to
stay in Old Drury until Friday of this week; so
Jeffreys will have two nights of snarling left
him after this Bulletin flaunts itself on the book-
stalls. On Saturday evening, December 4,
“Zaza,” the wiekedly-moral French play which
has been translated into every tongue except ox-
tongue, will be revived for 10 nights. The old
play beloved of the lamented Dan Barry, and
entitled “Ten Nights in a Bar-room,” is nothing
compared to 10 successive evenings with “Zaza.”
#* # *
Things grow fragmentary at Sydney Cri-
terion these nights. “ Othello ” has washed the
brown off himself and become clean. There are to
be fournightsof “The Taming of the Shrew,” com-
mencing this evening. Next Wednesday Mark
Antony will bury Caesar in the afternoon and
evening, and after that all will be silence.
** * *
Comedian Hugh Ward, with Grace.
Palotta, Rose Musgrove and Celia Ghiloni, opens
a holiday season at Sydney Palace on Boxing
Night, and meantime makes Queensland forget
its Phidston and its other cares for a month or so.
*# * *
Miss Lucille Stuart Benstead, the girl
from the Furthest Interior of Australia, gives her
concert at Sydney Town Hall to-night (Decem-
ber 2). As she has come a mighty long way to
sing to Sydney, it is to be hoped that city will
give her every encouragement.
-Sfc •$£
Another Ibsen play, “ Hedda Gabler,” is
to be put on by the Sydney Stage Society at the
Criterion on December 10, if there is any electric
light left by that time to illuminate the gloom of
the Norwegian Shakspeare. Miss Tilby Mar-
shall (Mrs. Leonard Willey) is expected to create
a noteworthy Hedda ; and, judging from the past
performances of this society, the rest of the cast
will be in equally capable hands.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has been helped more or
less by the return of Graham and Dent (sketch
artists) and Fanny Powers—who seems to have
settled down as an imitator of other stage people.
Mrs. de Dio, however, is supplying the turn that
draws the crowd. In conjunction with her three
faithful electricians, she presents the illusion-
dance labelled “Terpsichore’s Dream”; and it is to
be hoped that, when the curtain drops, she hands
round some of the applause to her smart assistants,
fqr they deserve it. The Trapnells are now old
friends, but their turn is hereby chronicled as
being present. Other performers whose turns are
familiar are Fred Curran, Dolly Harmer and
Bertha Stuart. The ladies of the first part still
flourish well-nourished limbs at the universe, and
are gay in a painstaking manner until the time
comes for them to strew their beauteous forms
about the stage and look utterly bored. (This
paper hasn’t mentioned the first part for months,
and it hastens to rectify the omission in case the
public should imagine it has been withdrawn and
starfholding indignation meetings.)
# # *
At Adelaide Royal ‘ ‘ The Man from Out-
back” has been driving the dingo, wombat and
other ravenous animals further from Bilanderson’s
door. The Outbacker’s doings are not exactly
probable, but they are Australian and so supply
a want that is steadily becoming more obvious.
Bert Bailey (joint author) has a fat part; but
perhaps the most popular actor is the faithful
’mind that comes down the chimney to his master’s
rescue. The gaiety of Adelaide is much height-
ened by the re-opening of the Tivoli. Here, too,
animals certainly have the star part, and the
juggling seals look out over the footlights with a
quaint appeal that has the charm of complete
novelty.
** * *
“The White Heather” succeeded “The
Bondman ” at Melbourne King’s last Saturday
night. “The Heather” is the drama in which
Bland Holt is rife, and in which Lady Godiva
should be the brilliant cause of great abashment.
Bland is a renowned stage manager in this pro-
duction, and besides owning a nose of foreign ex-
traction he has a quaint alphabetical gag that
was very good when it was new, and which isn’t
very old even now. He is entertaining in his way,
especially when he is rehearsing the “jiggetty
jig” of the Godiva chorus or strutting about as a
Marcus Superbus. Lady Godiva, however, is a
failure. One might have expected Godiva to
be a revelation of left-off clothing, but she is
rather a spectacle of left-off acting. And, turn-
ing to the serious subject of acting, this paper
commences to think of the veteran Charles Brown.
Brown plays the character of James Hume in
capital style, and scores many a point in the
interpretation that his ambitious juniors would do
well to note. Arthur Styan is the mildly vil-
lainous Lord Angus Cameron (Walter Baker’s old
part), and is more convincing than he was as
Jason in “The Bondman.” Max Maxwell is
Captain Alex. Maclintock, a gentleman of spotless
reputation, and Miss Harrie Ireland appears as
theinteresting Marion Hume, who wots not whether
she is wedded or no. Miss Ireland impersonates
this lady with conspicuous refinement, and makes
her a rather attractive figure. There are about
30 or 40 other people in the play, but as to-morrow
night is Bland’s last at the King’s, and also
apparently on the Australian stage, these 30
or 40 won’t be enumerated. Saturday will see
another production of “Hamlet,” with Walter
Bentley as the raving Dane. Miss Eugenie
Duggan is to portray Ophelia, and will be
heartily forgiven whatever happens.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
When you are troubled with indigestion
take Chamberlain’s Tablets; they assist digestion
and strengthen the stomach.*
How lucky is Australia in being out of the
track of earthquakes, blizzards and bloodshed.
And how foolish in tolerating such preventable
eruptions as strikes. Calamities which could be
so readily abolished by judicial appeals to D.C.L..
the Whisky of the Wise. No excuse to be behind
in wisdom when it can be so pleasantly imbibed
from that cheering brand of peace and progress.*
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the little man in
a black belltopper, who looks as though he had
walked out of “Pickwick Papers,” continues to
hunt for royalists with both eyes never shut
whilst his colleague in police intelligence is watch-
ing the Directoire period with one eye always
open. The girls of the period, clothed in the
gowns of the period, assemble and meet together
for singing purposes, and the gentle roar of the
far-off mob ebbs and flows the same as last
week. What Thk Bulletin said of “The Lady
Dandies” last week can be taken as repeated.
Familiarity breeds no disrespect for that exceed-
ingly French opera in its Anglicised form. Ihe
music is good, the dresses are bright and interest-
ing, the fragile narrative sticks to its text, and
the incidental dances provide picturesque employ-
ment for the human leg divine. Melbourne doesn t
appear to he rushing “The Lady Dandies, but
this is the dull season that comes between the
festive Cup and the feastly pudding, when the
local showmen are
never summoned
for overcrowding.
The opera afore-
said has only an-
other two weeks
or so to run, and
it should be going
strong when it
passes the post.
“THE LADY
DANDIES” (HER
MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE).
D. B. O'Connor as
Lagorille.
C. R. Bantock as
St. Amour, the
Secretary.
Contemplating “The Belle of Mayfair,”
just reappointed to its old job at Melbourne
Royal, one is impressed with the fact that its best
points are the incidentals. The Bond-street
number, for example, is a mere bright intrusion
into the body of the piece ; but it seems to eclipse
every other item in point of decorativeness.
Nothing else is quite so interesting as this revival
of an age when man might make a flirtatious over-
ture with a discreetly-proffered peppermint-drop;
yet most of the audience miss the picture as
of yore, and snigger at the ladies’ clothing.
Another item that earns appreciation is the appear-
ance of Miss Helene Rose and her Gibson girls.
As a general thing. Miss Rose is only a moderate
specimen of horticulture either as an actress or a
singer, but as the statuesque and inane Gibsoness
(Who is really sister to the clothes-horse) she does
well. A really encouraging matter is a swinging
chorus with an opulence of stocking that attracts
the stout stallholder even as a coquettish loin-mat
might have tickled the primitive savage.
* *■ * *
One or two changes have occurred in the
cast since “The Belle ” made its first appearance
in Melbourne last year, and on the whole
they are changes for the better. Miss Lizette
Parkes is now the daughter of the titled
purveyor of table preserves. She is more
winsome than her forerunner and sings and dances
pleasantly, and moreover she is darkly suspected
of being able to act. Miss Ruth Lincoln plays
her old part of Princess Carl. She hasn’t increased
the value of the character, and she seems to be
developing a voice with a rather sharp edge. Miss
Emmeline Orford is a gushful Lady Chaldicott,
with rich decorative effects in her elocution ; and
Miss Flossie Dickinson, a blonde with two agile
feet and plenty of teeth, makes a very passable
lady’s maid. Harold Thorley, as Raymond
Finchley, is brisker, more dramatic, and less
sentimental than was another able-bodied male
white citizen in the character. Phil Carlton,
in the character of the Earl of Mount High-
gate, uplifts a voice that would be excellently
suited to driving in piles. William Cromwell is
the brilliant talker and respectable dancer that
he was before. Edwin Brett, as an actor, isn’t
half bad ; but as a jester he is often a mistake.
Still he is nevhr a crime.
Seeing that the next issue of The Bulle-
tin will make no reference to theatrical matters,
it would be as well to state that Oscar Asche and
Miss Lily Brayton return to Melbourne Royal on
Saturday (11th). The opening production will be
“Othello,” which is to be repeated for a few
nights, a strong demand for the Brown Person
having set in.
X* * *
Two musicians who figured on different
evenings at the Melbourne Athenaeum last week
were Maurice Leplat, a French violinist, and
Frederick Moore, apparently a pianist of English
extraction. Leplat is more a clever fiddler than a
virtuoso. A hint of technical deficiency decides
one to regard him as no exceptional sequel
to the brilliant Kubelik. As for Frederick
Moore, who entertained an interested and critical
audience on his own, he is palpably no mean per-
former op the piano. His programme was a cul-
tured debauch in musical gems, and cohSJJrjsed
such things as Bach’s Chromatic Fantasia and
Fugue; Mozart’s Rondo Alla Turca; several
items from Chopin; and Beethoven’s beautiful
Moonlight Sonata. All of those Frederick played
with skill and taste, even if he displayed, on
occasion, less the soul of an artist than the uncon-
cern of a bored professor.
** * *
Judging by a picture at West’s Building,
Melbourne, the difference between man and the
ape is not so great as would first appear. This
film shows that remarkably intelligent monkey,
Consul the Great, doing many things that a man
does, and also doing them in a way that reflects
great credit on an ape. West gives an idea of
the craze for aviation in the picture of an aero-
plane meeting at Blackpool (England), and exhibits
some attractive snapshots of Norway, and of a
tribe of nomads in Algeria. Some reflections on
sentiment and the institution of the family are
the characteristics of “A Good Action”; while
“ The Merry Widower ” sheds alight on the habit
some elderly men have of leaping after girls.
** * *
Taits’ principal picture at Melbourne Glaci-
arium this week is “Comato, the Sioux,” which is
not unlike “The Squaw Man” in its general
incidents. The picture is highly exciting and
technically good ; in fact, as the programme says,
it transports “ the spectator psychologically into
the very heart of the Black Hills.” Another film
of an unusual character is “ The Old Woodman, ’
which portrays an old gentleman watching his
past life float by in a vision, and then introduces
the figure of Death, reminding the unfortunate
elderly person that he is close to the tomb. Other
items in the programme are scenes in Denmark
and Biarritz, and flying machines at Doncaster.
** * *
The very latest constellations at Mel-
bourne Opera House are the Kremlca Brothers,
whose turn is a mixture of clever comedy and
acrobatics. They are skilful tumblers when they
tumble, and clever balancers when they don’t
tumble, and they are fairly humorous humorists.
Harry Marte, a person of the song-and-prance
persuasion, prances better than he sings, and
even then there have been taller fellows of their
feet. Tom Dawson.these days wears a violet suit
and an impossible hat. Also Bert Terrell is creep-
ing into the hearts of females with his pretty
songs and winning ways. Bert seems one of those
sweet young men at whom a giddy maid would
naturally throw a bonbon, after which she would
smite him heavily with a straw.
*# * #
“ 0.K.,” from Melbourne
The term “ waster ” in its full meaning applies to Sacco
Homann, the alleged cigarette fiend just now confined in
a glass case at Melbourne Witxworks. He wastes physi-
cally and morally. He is the representative able-bodied
citizen who is capable of any expedient to spare himself
the necessity for working. He lives by practising idle-
ness and reducing his flesh the while. His game in life is
to keep himself in good physical condition whilst he is
loafing out of the glass case,' in order that he may have a
good "reserve fund of fat and vital force to dispose of
during his long fasts. As a waster he deserves all the
putty” medals he has earned. Now and then I drop
into the Waxworks to see Sacco wasting. If he
smoked all the cigarettes and drank all the soda-water
per day that the advertisements discredit him with he
would rarely have a cig. out of his mouth or a bottle out
of his hand. The advt. may speak truth. I can only say
that I’ve never happened to strike a time when the man
was smoking or wetting his interior, nor have I ever
smelt the fumes of tobacco in the Waxworks. But, as
regards the wasting, there is no fraud on the public.
Sacco wastes all right. The well-fed man of four or five
weeks ago looked like a genuine candidate for a Con-
sumptives’Home last time I saw him doing nothing in
his glass case. He may get through his fast, and survive
a number of other such preposterous ordeals, but even-
tually he will, I guess, retire to a hospital and die
lingeringly—a waster to the last.
The tremendous coal upheaval has put in
the shade another industrial crisis that also
threatens to make life not worth living in N.S. W.
That is the dispute between the Bottle Accumu-
lators’ Association, the Bottle Merchants’ Associ-
ation and the Brewers’ Bottle Association, a
triplet of interests that make a living out of the
pursuit of the dead marine. Of all militant
trades unions here on earth, the bottle people
seem to be the most willing. An ultimatum has
been issued to the effect that if certain claims are
not satisfactorily settled, the bottle-ohs will call
the glass of beer from the mouth of every unionist,
and set up a beer famine compared to which the
coal famine will be nothing.
Adelaide is going to have the biggest
hotel in Australia; but it is to be built not so
much out of the fourpence that Man (in Adelaide)
pays for beer as out of the llfd. that Woman
pays for rags. Foy and Gibson some time ago in-
vaded Adelaide and built a whole barrack of tall
shops alongside the York. Lately they bought
and pulled down the old barn which used to be,
but lately has not even pretended to be, the lead-
ing hotel in the city. And now a new York is to
arise ; only more of the firm’s shops will eat up
the ground-floor street frontage, with the glorified
six-storey pub ascending above them. At one
corner will be a tower to dwarf the Exhibition
dome and serve as a permanent memorial to the
combined glories of Rags and Beer.
Cuming, Smith and Co. (Vic.), who lately
spent something like£so,ooo upon wood-distillation
works at Warburton, on the Upper Yarra (Vic.)
are being treated to a course of the same poison
that killed the white lead works at Footscray.
Some of their products that used to be sold at 14s.
per cwt. have now been cut down by the im-
porters to 7s. fid. ; merchandise that sold at ss, 6d.
is as low as 3s. 9d. It is the old, old story in four
chapters: —
I. Until the local manufacturer starts, the foreigner or
his" agent, the local importer, charges such an extor-
tionate price that he can build up a big fighting fund.
11. Then, when the manufacturer starts, the foreigner
or the local importer undersells him by means of the
fio-hting fund which has been extorted from the public.
'Til. The manufacturer, not having extorted wealth
from the public, has no fighting fund, and frequently has
to cave in, sack his hands arid abandon his works.
IV. The old extortion starts afresh, and another fight-
ing f und is built up ready for the next manufacturer who
may come along.
Yet the shandygaff Protectionist says he “be-
lieves in moderation,” and reckons that 20 per
c ent. should be enough for any industry.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“0.K.”: Melbourne’s Oity Fathers have lately decided
to follow the awful example of their Sydney brethren as
regards the letting of the Town Hall for concert purposes.
The system of imposition practised by the aldermen in
possession of the Sydney building appeals to the land-
lordly instincts of the Melbourne crowd, and whereas
they were formerly content to let any showman rent the
Town Hall at a fixed rate of £l5 on “ off ” nights, or £2O
on Saturday night, the}'are now demanding an increased
rental —on a sliding scale —in all cases where the maxi-
mum charge forseats exceeds ss. That is to say, the rapa-
cious civic landlord in Melbourne, as in Sydney, has laid
down the rule that no showman shall offer seats for sale
at a guinea in the Town Hall unless he has prepaid a
rental of £5O. He can have the use of the building for
£2O (on Saturdays) if he is running a “ popular ” priced
concert; but if his entertainment requires big receipts to
cover exceptional expenses he must pay an extra tax to
the landlord, whether he actually obtains the big re-
ceipts or makes a loss on his speculation. The rapacity
of the landlord has not even the excuse of being strictly
business-like, but it is peculiarly artful in its way. If he
(or they) were to demand a percentage of the gross
receipts or net profits, the claim would have the pre-
cedent of “private enterprise ” to justify it. They would
be letting the theatre-— i.e., the Town Hall—on sharing
terms. These arrogant aldermen, however, profess to have
discovered reasons why the rent of the Town Hall
should be times as much for Melba as for Brown,
Jones or Robinson. The “stars,” or rather their en-
trepreneurs, must pay “ star ” prices for concert accom-
modation, as long as the gawd Mayor and councillors
have the whip hand of them. They cannot “ book dates ”
at the Town Hall for more than three months ahead, nor
can they book them at all without declaring the rates of
admission they intend to charge.
“ Melb.” : I have been chatting with Mr. Mark King,
only surviving progeny of Morton King, the tragedian,
who had six children—Agnes, David, Mary, William,
Mark and Louisa. Mark was almost an infant when his
father left the stage, and is not so well informed about
bis Thespian career as a few other living persons. One
of these has lately been uttering reminiscences of Morton
King, and errs in saying that King was 50 when he first
appeared in Australia. He was only about 30, and had a
very long Melbourne career after leaving the boards.
The reminiscent above referred to says that King was an
actor in England. Coming to Sydney, he started business
as a timber merchant. Without wholly ceasing to sell
boards during the day, he took, after a while, to treading
them at night, and sprang to popularity at the Sydney
Victoria as Hamlet, Richard 111., Shylock, Claude Mel-
notte, and other characters. This gives color to the state-
ment that he was an actor in England, for he had keen
Sydney rivals in such as Nesbitt, Arabin, etc. It has
been said that he ranted ; but all my recollection of
him is as a very mild, soft-spoken man, almost with
a gentle lisp. He was short and stoutish, clean-shaved,
and rather like Charles Kean to look at. Shifting to
Melbourne about 60 years ago, he continued all his Syd-
ney popularity at the Queen’s Theatre, under the
management of Charley Young and Johnny Hydes. Mrs.
Charles Young, afterwards Mrs. Hermann Vezin, was his
Ophelia, Portia, Pauline, and so forth. When the gold-
fields broke out he turned auctioneer, and made a pile.
The firm was Gibbon and King. He also did well in tea
and other Chinese goods, associated with Kong Meng.
Then he became a magistrate, the most diligent amateur
in attendance at the Melbourne District Court: Further,
he became M.L.A. (he appears on the roll as Mark Last
King), and sat in Victoria’s second, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, eighth and ninth Parliaments, so that he wan-
dered politically over the tangled waste of years between
1859 and 1880.
“ Daddv” Lobr, the genial showman of yore, is in a
way to make a nice little fortune by the opening up of
the Powlett River coalfield in Victoria. Some years ago
Lohr took a pub at Inverloch (formerly Anderson’s Inlet)
in South Gippsland, but although he converted the pub
into a hotel which was the pride of the district, the dis-
trict showed no disposition to prove w'orth.v of his confi-
dence. The hostelry attracted summer visitors to Inver-
loch, but being 16 miles distant from the nearest town-
ship and railway terminus —the coaly little township of
Outtrim—it was pretty much of a hermitage for Lohr in
the long and dreary “ off ” season. The discovery of the
new coalfield promised a solid business future for Lohr’s
investment. The recent developments have confirmed
that promise. “Daddy” is just now divided in his
opinion as to whether he would be happier in making a
large profit all at once by selling out, or a large income
by sticking to his property.
When Bland Holt disbands his company—as he is about
t 0 do—many of the old favorites will throw in their lot
with Max Maxwell, who will take up the managerial
character at Christmas, and run a show on Blandoltian
lines. Maxwell has bought from his retiring boss three
of his most money-making dramas —“ Woman and Wine,
“A Woman’s Revenge,” and “In London Town” —to-
gether with the scenery and fixings used in the original
productions. He has further plans in view, but the
three plays aforesaid are his first ventures, and with them
he will start in business for himself. As a member of the
Holt co. for some years, young man Maxwell has proved
himself a bright, intelligent mummer, and in his attempt
to <r et <«-oing with a fresh combination, and do the things
that Bland Holt used to do, he will have the good wishes
of all good Australians.
“E.0.F.” : I see that Harry Rickards says that whilst
in England he paid two guineas to hear Caruso “ out of
curiosity.” I sympathise with Harry in his effoit to find
a plausible excuse for his extravagance. At intervals I
drop into H. Rickards’ Tivoli up in Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, and afterwards I invariably have to endure a
lecture from one or other of my friends. The only
defence 1 can offer is “curiosity.” lam awfully glad to
find that Harry and I are in the same boat. Perhaps one
of the 425. he squandered on Caruso’s show was the one I
squandered on his. It is an interesting situation, and
shows how the same explanation can be tendered twice
for the same shilling.
“ F J W.” : Charles Taylor has become the Dan Barry
of Maor’iland. Met his show the other evening at Tai-
hape Close by old Ngauruhoe was smoking like a bilious
funnel. Taylor struck this country about six years ago,
intending to stay as many months; but he and Miss Car-
rington gave Maorilanders just what they wanted, and so
the pair have remained. They carry about a dozen
people and some decent scenery, and the play—well, I
saw something entitled “ Home Rule, in which Taylor
played a great and wonderful character. The audience
hoo-rooed and hoc-raed, and Taylor sang, joked and
danced, after which he made a speech in the Dan Barry
manner, though there’s not a soul on this earth who can
make that sort of speech just like Dan.
“ Vulcan ” : “ Harrison O.’s ” hurried presentation of a
domestic animal over my recent Wyndham-Tree remarks
(18/11/’O9) awaits recovery for future use in the next
street. He first grabs atmosphere when he gauges capa-
city by age, which is about as sensible as judging a man’s
charity by his girth. His citations in support are unfor-
tunate, too. Irving, still “active”at 67, was a pathetic
travesty on Irving, the actor of 15 years earlier ; while as
to Marie Studholme, her main stock-in-trade being her
teeth, she’s likely to shine undiminished so long as the
goods are purchaseable. Giving “H. 0.” the rest, the
fact that Swinburne and Meredith still turned out
good stuff in their seventies makes Kipling no less a
“ fag-end ”in his forties. Writer’s case was that VVynd-
ham and Tree, being on modern standards second-raters
at their best, aren’t likely to shine the more for their
accumulated years before an impartial Australian audi-
ence of to-day, and “ H.O.’s” stupendous fact that Tree
is only 56 isn’t likely to make him less the middling mum-
mer he was when only 40 or thereabouts.
“Adelaide”: Re the three Federal Reps, who can
always be relied on to empty the House when they talk
(B. 28/10/’O9). In the land of the roasted nigger, that
qualification is a real asset. Many of the tenth-rate
“continuous” vaudeville shows really are continuous ;
but about dusk the management likes a chance to sweep
up the place and get a meal, so a “chaser” is put on.
He is a performer who sings or recites so badly that the
whole audience wants to make a rush for the open air.
There is a Chicago story of a “chaser” who was so un-
deniably bad that he had a steady job, and on the
strength of it he got married. He was so happy, as a
result, that some traces of merit appeared in his per-
formance, whereupon people stayed to listen to him and
he lost his billet.
“ Waif ” (from London): “La Foi,” by Brieux, Englished
by Fagan, under the style of “False Gods,” and produced
by Tree at His Majesty’s, London, is across between “ The
Sign” and “Parsifal,” with a difference, and is designed
to demonstrate the futility of being superfluous. A very
fine, bare-legged young Egyptian returns from foreign
travel with all the gipsy make-up rubbed off. He rides
rough-shod over several sacred scarabs (cockroaches), and
says he did it on purpose. He smashes some sinfully
graven images, and gets mixed up in a thunderstorm ;
and because he makes everyone so jolly uncomfortable
the people say he is a god, and that Amon Ra, Isis, Wines
and Spirits and other alleged deities aren’t worth
a date stone. Then he keeps on saying he
isn’t a god, and can’t work miracles, until even
his best girl says he makes her tired in Egypt. When
everyone who hasn’t perished miserably is as miserable as
he —especially she—can possibly be and live, the Rev.
Beerbohm Tree,' high priest of them parts, takes a hand.
In one act (fourth and last) he explains away the young
gentleman of retiring habits, who lives long enough to
see his sweetheart go to the sacrifice, as she wanted to do
all along, and then dies painfully to everyone’s relief. It
is stated that the author’s intention is to enforce the great
moral, “Keep off the grass ” ; likewise, “Touch not the
Lord’s anointed.” If not, then there is no intelligible
dramatic intention, for the half-dressed Superfluity does
nothing to repair his breaches in the line of deities, and
only in his last hour, when he can’t help it, does he utter
aught but negations—and there had to be a tag of some
sort. In spite of fine writing and admirable stage craft,
the piece doesn’t hold the people.
The new Drury Lane play, “ The Whip,” is going to
take some staging if ever it comes to Australia. Its
“effects’’run in this order : Training stables; string of
horses go out to exercise ; pack of foxhounds comes in ;
otter-hunters next; then a motor-smash. Act 2 : Merely
a hunt breakfast, magnificently staged in a marquis’s
Great Hall; horse show at Olympia; Chamber of
Horrors, with effigies of murderers, etc., at Madame
Tussaud’s (the comic man pretends to be the figure of the
late Charles Peace, burglar, and so overhears the villain's
plot); great moving train scene ; villain crawls along
footboard, uncouples horsebox containing a Newmarket
favorite, and leaves it to be smashed up by the oncoming
express (N.B.— It isn’t). Last act: The Two Thousand
Guineas, “run in full view of the audience.” Cyril
Keightley is the military villain : and Basil Gill and Miss
Fanny Brough are in the cast.
The liberties that “ A Royal Divorce ” takes with his-
tory are put into the shade by the romantic fictions of a
new Napoleonic play by Pierre Decourelies, entitled “Le
Roi Sans Royaume.” In the “ Divorce ” the most flagrant
absurdities were the interviews between Josephine and
Marie Louise, and the appearance of the mimic “ Josey ”
on the scene when Nap was about to depart for St.
Helena, at which historical period the real Josephine had
been some time dead.. In the new play the Emperor
Napoleon is taken prisoner bv Louis XVII., who sets him
free, with instructions to go forth and win the battle of
Wagram.
Florence St. John, who first “starred”in London in opera
bouffe some 30 years ago, was lately announced to appear
in “The Merry Peasant” at the new Strand Theatre.
The reputation of veteran Florence dates back to the
days of “ Madame Favart,”in which she decorated the
name part, at the old Strand Theatre, haying previously
figured in minor parts in grand opera with a travelling
co. Her husband at that time was one St. James, who
came to Australia nearly a quarter of a century ago, and
—the writer fancies —died here. St. James divorced her,
or she divorced him, and immediately afterwards she
married Marius, the Frenchman who had played Favart.
to her Madame in the opera. She divorced him,
and he also—like her previous husband —came to Aus-
tralia as a member of Mrs. Bernard Beere’s co. Also he
died. That was 20 years ago. Presumably Florence has
been married some more since then. Her re-appearance
suggests that she hasn’t been growing rich during her
long term of popularity ; but even as a faded Florence,
battling for a salary, she retains a lot of her historical
interest, and when her name was billed again in London,
a ha’penny newspaper published a column of her recol-
lections.
A SONG OF THANKSGIVING.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
In an interview with the Daily Telegraph a local
brewery manager made the reassuring statement that he
had a good stack of coal, and that there would be “ any
amount of beer” for Christmas.
There’s corn in bloomin’ Egypt, and beer in Sydney town—
The strike ain’t stopped the breweries, they are nob
closing down.
And coves can wet their whistles, they can stick ’em in
to drown,
There’s plenty beer from now till Christmas morning.
I heard some rumors recently that nearly sent me daft;
Some chaps was saying that the strike would stop the
soothin’ draught,
But I see it contradicted in the Daily Telegrapht—
A brewer says there’s beer till Christmas morning.
I’m sorry for them miner blokes—that grasping, grabbing
Vend
Don’t seem to have no halfway house nor any flaming end.
The way they treats the workin’ coves would drive ’em on
a bend
Especial as there’s beer till Christmas morning.
But though the times ain’t rosy, be thankful for yer lot;
Yous might have had to go without a lining to yer pot.
Three cheers for that there brewin’ bloke who hadn’t coal
forgot—
The beer will flow for sure till Christmas morning.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
THE SONGS OF THE SHIRTS.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Mr. Fred Curran’s budget of songs stimulated a good
deal of laughter, especially the song about shirts—a
ridiculous thing.in itself, but laughable in capable hands.
— S. M. Herald re Sydney Tivoli performer.
I wander to the Tivoli sometimes
Where red-nosed men sing gleefully Of shirts ;
And though I know it heaps up cents and dimes
For Rickards, still the foolish practice hurts.
I often peer into large drapers’ shops
And marvel at each shophand’s doleful face,
For any loud comedian that hops
Would revel in the shirts that strew the place.
And when I see the stays and other things
Joyously strung for ev’ry soul to see,
I wonder why they don’t dance Highland flings.
(How they refrain from doing so beats me !)
Imagine now the red-nosed jester placed
Amid the socks to sell them ! How he’d yell
And roll about until he had disgraced
The clothes emporium ! It's just as well
That shopmen have such wonderful, control
Over their feelings. It must take long years
Before they can take down a flannel roll,
And yet not laugh until hysteric tears
Start from their merry eyes ! And as for those
Things called suspenders, why, I can’t conceive
How they suppress the jubilant “ Ho-ho’s ! ”
That rise within them. For I won’t believe
That these grave men are not on fire with mirth !
’Twould not be natural for them to be
' Glum as the ones who stow you in the earth,
There in the ’midst of shirts and jollity !
So when I go to purchase socks or ties,
I always watch to catch the lurking grin,
And sharply search the “ hand’s “ averted eyes
To see if all his joy he’s keeping in.
JJ.S.W.
FOE.


Buy “Her”
Some Handkerchiefs
for Christmas.
What could be nicer ? It is the kind of present
every woman appreciates.
We have all styles of Ladies’ Embroidered Hand-
kerchiefs—Muslin, Lawn and Linen, 10$d., 1/-, 1/3,
1/6, 1/9, 1/11$, 2/3, 2/6, 2/11$ per half-dozen. Also
Fancy Boxes, each containing: half-dozen plain
Lawn, with, sin., sin. and sin. borders, at 1/6, 1/9,
2/6, 3/6. Satin Sachets, Hand-painted, containing
half-dozen plain Lawn Handkerchiefs, 3/6, 3/9 to 21/-
Hand Embroidered Handkerchiefs, at 3/11, 4/6,
4/11 the half-dozen, in Fancy Box.
Say what you would like to pay, and you can
leave the selection to us. We pay the postage and
guarantee to please you.
Order right away and ask for Catalogue.
AXTENS & CO.
(La Maison
Parisienne),
The French Glove House,
24-30 THE STRAND, SYDNEY.
A Great Law Suit Decided.
The Supreme Court, the People, have decided
that Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery wins against
coughs and colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
15ct. Gold 5 Opal
Hoop Ring-, 30/-
18ct. Gold, 50/-
u
Choice
All-Diamond
Ring,
18cfc. Gold,
£l5.
ALL GOODS
POSTED FREE.
Artistic Designs in &
High-Quality Gem Rings.
I—l ERE are Rings to suit artistic tastes, and
at prices which will suit all pockets.
Purest gems and purest gold, combined
with artistic designs and excellent finish, are
the materials which have built up our great
reputation as ring manufacturers.
Just imagine what a magnificent Xmas
Gift one of these rings would make. We
have a great many charming designs, which
we would like you to inspect, so come along;
or shall we send ymu our Catalogue ?
Hollingdale 8 Kesseil,
Watchmakers, Jewellers and Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY-
IBcfc. Gold All-Diamond
Scroll Ring-, £l5.
Solid 18ct. Gold 5-stone
Rintr, Diamonds and
Rubies, £3/10/-
All Diamonds, ,£5/5/-
18ct. Gold 2-Diamond
Ring, £lO.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The papers have been stuffing almost any-
thing under their big strike headings; but there
were some items which they carefully put
somewhere else. As soon as nationalisation
was mentioned, . they dragged in anything
from anywhere which reflected on that
animal; but though the miners were saying
that theirs was a tough and dangerous job
which was liable to result in many young widows
and fatherless youngsters, wherefore they ought
to get a shade more consideration than had come
their way lately, the papers carefully kept a cer-
tain tale from Illinois in another column. Yet it
came on a day when the editors were particularly
angry, and when one of them had just printed a
letter indignantly, protesting that the owners
didn’t average more than a miserable 9 per cent,
in dividends. Here is the thing that went in a
different column:—
One hundred and sixty-eight bodies were found in St.
Paul’s mine, Cherry, Illinois, in a great, tangled mass,
blocking the staircase from the third to the second level.
Escape was blocked by falling debris, and the men bad
succumbed to black damp in endeavoring to push through
obstructions while waiting for rescuers. Evidentlv they
had been alive for days.
Tuo wooden fans made from tool handles had been
affixed to the shaft wall, and turned by hand in a frantic
effort to brush back the black damp. A miner was found
firmly gripping one of the fans.
The victims left notes written on pieces of slate.
The heartrending alleged fact that the owners
don’t get more than 9 per cent, in dividends was
put with the strike news ; but the public had to
search elsewhere for the mere casual incident of
168 coal-miners’ bodies being found in a tangled
mass, smothered to death after being caged in a
mine-“for days.” In fact, lest anybody should
connect the two things in any way, it will be
noted that in the foregoing the’ grossly one-sided
old daily paper carefully didn’t mention “coal.”
That word might have suggested a train of
thought which the paper and its Fat bosses didn’t
approve of.
• * * * *
Goodness only knows how this country
would get along if it wasn’t for Private Enter-
prise—energetic, hustling Private Enterprise.
There are the Altona brown-coal deposits, near
Melbourne, for example. The syndicate which
owns them can’t have had them for much more
t'nn 20 years, and it is even less than that since
.u -ound out that the seam is, so it says, 74ft. thick
at a depth of 374 ft., and mostly a valuable
and serviceable article. But does it propose
to wait another 20 years to develop this
wealth? No, emphatically no! With (so
it says) numerous orders in hand, and
with a chance to fill its pockets and at the
same time do the community a good turn, it takes
off its coat, hangs the garment up on the nearest
tree, and shows the world what enterprise really
is. In fact, it “hopes to turn out 600 tons a
day”—in another 20 years? No! “Shortly
after Christmas.” A strenuous thing, verily, is
Private Enterprise.
* » * *
The coal famine in Melbourne has dis-
covered an unsuspected little coal mine away
down at Strzlecki, in Gippsland. This colliery
produces, says the manager, “an excellent,
bright, gaseous coal, of which there is a large
deposit in a seam of convenient thickness and
lying in an easily-handled material. We are pro-
ducing about 500 tons a week at present, and
could easily produce more.” Apparently he doesn’t
want to rush his product on to a hungry market
lest he should capsize it; or else he scorns to
acquire great riches at a jump lest the novelty
should capsize him. Anyway, he could produce
more, and (according to the report) he doesn’t do
it ; yet, curiously enough, nobody is howling at
him and telling him that he is responsible for
tremendous hardships. That sort of talk is
reserved exclusively for the working miner who
could also do something, but doesn’t do it.
* • * *
A cool little request, was made to Victorian
Mines Minister Mcßride last week by the directors
of the Outtrim-Howitt Coal Co., of Gippsland.
They didn’t ask for quite the whole earth, but
they wanted two considerable slices of it. The
first request was that they should be given a lease
of one square mile of the "eight that the State has
reserved for itself at Powlett, and the second that
the State should refuse employment to miners who
may at present be working at Outtrim. Mcßride
wasn’t annoyed or surprised ; he merely replied
that Private Enterprise had had a fair chance
and hadn’t taken it, wherefore the State was now
going to try its hand. The Powlett field, he said,
had been there all along, but Private Enterprise
hadn’t troubled to prospect it. Also the State
had started the development of the Kilcunda
field not far away by giving a bonus, whereupon
Private Enterprise had taken up a few leases and
then gone to sleep on them- Further, Parlia-
ment had given Private Enterprise the right to
build a tram-line to Cape Patterson, and had
given it full permission to bog in and develop that
field ; but it hadn’t bogged in or even started to
bog in. Moreover, Private Enterprise already
held two leases at Powlett, and it was devel-
oping them with the speed of a gouty snail.
Furthermore, though the Outtrim Co. had paid
£6OOO a year in dividends during the first seven
years of its brief life, it was still only a trifling
concern with little reserve capital and a poor
supply of out-of-date machinery, and if it got a
lease it would hardly know what to do with it.
Finally, as to Outtrim miners seeking employment
at Powlett, he had always been assured that the
SLUM APHORISMS.
JIMMY : “ Wot per foxin’ hus fer? Hogs follow
ther masters.”
SUE: "Garn! Dirt goes afore the broom.”
JIMMY : “ Not when ther likes o’ per sweeps. Yer
ole woman tell’d mine yer leaves most of it in
the corners .”
private co. treated its employees so well that they
wouldn’t desert it for State employment even if
20 State mines called. But at about this point
the deputation remembered - that it had an im-
portant appointment with a whale or a giraffe or
something further down the street.
• • * *
A half-thoughtful person signing himself
“ Spencerite ” wrote a protest to Sydney Tele-
graph, and summed up like this :
It the owners are compelled to work their mines, we
interfere with their ownership, which means under-
mining the basis of present day society. If we allow
tampering with the basis of private property, we are in
immediate danger of our civilisation being displaced by
the tyranny of Socialism. In conclusion, I contend that
the mainspring of progress is the survival of the fittest.
The trouble about this survival of the fittest is
that the fittest can onty prove that he is the fittest
by surviving. Thus you have three men—the
philosopher, the pushite and the hangman. The
pushite kills the philosopher with a bottle, there-
fore the philosopher is the least fit. Then the hang-
man scrags the pushite, and by remaining alive
h! mself he proves that he is the most fit of the three.
If Jjpencerite ”is satisfied that the mainspring
of progress is the survival of the fittest, he could
not object if a stronger man than he slew him
with a leader out of the Sydney Morning
Herald and carried off his wife. When the
stronger men had, in turn, bashed each other out,
Jack Johnson would probably be the last of the
human family, and the loneliness would drive
him to hard drink. Then, if he drank
hard enough, Booze would destroy him,
and when the animals mentioned in Revela-
tion arrived they would find the earth
peopled by a raging torrent of beer with a sand-
J n ’ ts “dook.” Presumably the animals
would attack beer and beer would attack the
animals, and then either Revelation would be
disgracefully drunk or else Prohibition would
arrive. After that the animals would fight each
other to a finish.
“Nero”: The crushed
beings who seize the pass-
ports and arrange the
handles for the Melbourne
tramway octopus are ap-
parently making no fur-
ther wriggle union wards.
A circular was issued a
few weeks back, inform-
ing the “ men ” that cer-
tain Labor advocates were
trying to make money out
of them—a thing which
the octopus would scorn to
do—and announcing cheer-
fully that 485 outsiders,
all good non-unionists, were
hungering for tramway jobs.
It lias had a good effect in
restoring servility. The schemes
for the supervision of the conduct
and sentiment of the happy beings
engaged in this calling are many
and admirable; but the chief one,
I believe, is something on this'
plan : Conductor A-Two-Billion
asks Gripman his opinion re
a union, and describes those not
in favor in horrible terms. Grip-
man commends the idea and
improves on the denunciation.
Ilie tram makes the terminus.
Gripman and conductor leap
off and race each other to
the “shed boss,” each one
under the proud impression
that he has discovered a
“discontent.” The first in
gets on the list for promotion
to an inspectorship; the second
skulks away cursing his cob-
ber’s pace, and is thereafter
watched, with a view to the
early shoot. It is the same
old trouble that unionism
always meets, to wit,
the rotters ; and the ’
rotter is numerous on
these trams. I’ve
heard lots of them
aver privately that a
man is a fool to “sing
out” when he has a
constant billet. The billet, is
constant enough, God knows; they hardly ever
knock off. J
• » »
“F.C.” : In B. 28/10/’O9 “ X.P.D.” refers
to the ease with which hotel licenses are obtained
in Queensland. He needn’t have gone so far
north for instances of the Law’s lack of discern-
hotel in almost the centre of
Melbourne has been run for years by a
lady who formerly followed the oldest
profession ; while another, half a mile
away, is run by an ill-regulated dame
who, less than five years back, managed
a maison de joie in Richmond. Her
amors with another woman’s husband
became public property through the
deserted wife’s habit of pervading the
bar and damaging the licensee’s face,
and the mirrors, and the King’s peace
and other things. The deserted woman’s
troubles alvvays met with the sympa-
thetic consideration of Panton, who
was then on the city bench ; but the
other woman’s ” license was neverthe-
less regularly renewed without any diffi-
culty. These are not the only cases. In
fact, cases are so frequent as to justify
tli© assumption that the ways of a Vic. licensing
inspector are as mysterious and sub-rosy as those
of some licensees.
* * * *
“ Lantana ” : One deserving animal any-
how is getting a little joy out of the coal strike,
and that is the coal-dragging horse. It is reported
that 60 horses were brought out of one mine, and
some of them hadn’t seen daylight or grass for
three years. It was like emptying the dungeons
of the Bastille when these three score animals
rushed into the paddocks, and went mad with
joy, and wanted to bite the sky. Can’t anything
be done for the mine horse, so that he will have his
regular annual vacation above ground ? Can’t he
be made an honorary member of the union or some
old thing like that ?
The following, taken from a
letter which appeared in the S. M. Herald a day
or two ago, recalls an incident in the ’9O strike :
Let a call be made on clerks, shopmen, University
students and others to unload the steamers of coal. I
am a retired civil servant, aged 65, and tough as shoe-
nails, and ofltr my services. With a six-shooter in my
belt I would not care twopence for the man Peter and
his misguided disciples.
At Wellington (M.L.) special constables had been
sworn in, and one day they were all lined up on
the Queen’s wharf to keep a clear passage for
some blacklegs. Looking along the line, my eye
rested on one of the type of Retired-Civil-
Servant-Aged-65-Tough- As-Oid-Horse-Shoe. He
had a “gun” quailing in his hip pocket and a
baton shivering on his shoulder. Ten minutes
later the lines were broken—owing mostly to the
everlasting mounted police fool. Two or three
blacklegs were separated from the escort and ran.
Flying beside them went Tough-As-Nails. Turn-
ing into Willis-street the fugitives found that they
had been cut off. All but Tough-As-Nails ducked
down a side street. He, with his baton flying
from its strap, raced straight for the crowd—
DISCOURTEOUS.
MR. PECKT: “ You women are confoundedly
lucky. You get the best of everything .”
MRS. P. : “ Absurd! Look at our husbands.”
fear stricken. Suddenly out of the mob there
broke a man swinging a Red, Dripping Horror.
Round and round his head it swept until Tough-
As-Nails, sobbing for breath, came within a yard
of its whistle. And then it crashed upon his face
and he went rocketing into the gutter. The
crowd carried me onward, but I saw the Dreadful
Weapon. It was a bullock’s pluck.
» m * *
Squatter A. A. Dangar, of the well-to-do
INT.S.W. clan of that name which has grown fat on
big estates obtained from the people for very
little, held’forth for a piece the other day while
opening a new wing of the Dangar Cottage Hos-
pital at Singleton. A daily paper headed it “If
the Socialists Ruled : Life Would not be Worth
Living,” and this was the gist of the thing:—
The times were ominous. He only desired to empha-
sise and make plain than if what he had endeavored to
depict should ever unfortunately come to pass there
would be no more gifts of hospitals such as that one, for
no one, no matter what his energy and ability might be,
would be in a position to make such a gift.
There was once a land where the King and the
nobility owned everything, and all the rest of the
people were serfs and lived in holes in the
ground. One day the most bloated of the nobles
gave a penny to a sick beggar. And then the
King and all the nobles stood up and howled with
aloud voice, saying that if the serfs were freed
and the land became the property of the whole
people, there would no longer be a king and 700
gilded nobles, with palaces and flunkeys, to give
a penny to a sick beggar; and then what the
devil would become of that sick beggar?
And. the people were so much moved that
they killed off the King and the 700 nobles
who lived in the 700 palaces, and lived happily for
ever after.
HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
In our great central churches last Sunday evening- there
were, all told, making a rough estimate, 2000 people. In
the city streets at the same time there were, roughly,
50,000 going to and coming from places of amusement.
More evangelical work and preaching were wanted.
Midday meetings could be held at the great centres of
employment. The Presbyterian Church should set apart
a man and at least £BOO a year to commence this great
work. Five to ten thousand men would be spoken to
every week.— Rev. J. S. Buntine , of Melbourne.
But a scant 2000 folk, no more,
Sitting solemn-faced within the pews,
While the parsons preach and outward pour,
In divers tones, their own peculiar views.
Folk of sobriety,
“Proddies”.-tnd “ Pats,”
Breathing their piet}'
Into their hats ;
Glowing with holiness,
Stern and austere ;
Kneeling in lowliness,
Meek and sincere.
Only 2000.
Gaily 50,000 folk or so
Travel to and fro in tram and train ;
Godless Jeremiah, Jim and Joe,
Giddy Gerty, Gwendoline and Jane.
Bent on frivolity,
Eager for fun,
Sinful in jollity
Off for a run.
Taking a peach along
Out for the day,
Walking the beach along,
Godless but gav.
Fuil 50,000.
What’s three hundred pounds a year to hit
Of Scotchbyterian mould and visage stern,
Who’ll go each dinner-time, with purpose grim,
And teach those folk what they refuse to learn ?
Is it o’er muckle to
Gi’e to a moil,
One that will buckle to
Preaching upon
Creeds ev’ry dinner-time,
Praying with zest,
Giving each sinner time
Texts to digest?
Merely 300?
About 10,000 working men, or less,
With dinner pail and pasty at their lunch,
All list’ning to a clergyman’s address,
And solemnly reflecting as they munch.
With due propriety
Blinking their eyes,
Swallowing piety
With their hot pies ;
Glad that they will h ive their
Church with their bun,
And they can still have their
Sunday for fun.
-Nearly 10,000.
'Tis now 2000 years ago, or near,
Since parsons ’gan to roam this troubled earth ;
The sects increase and multiply each year
(Which moves the pagan to loud, godless mirth).
Yet do they battle on
Fighting the Deevil,
Still do they rattle on
Girding at evil;
Preaching humility,
Pleading with tears—
Is it futility ?
Wait a few years.
‘’Tis but 2000.
victoria.
DEN.


The fe"E RflNB
Xmas Number.
notice to agents.
HE LONE HAND for January
will be the Christmas Number
of the Magazine, and will be
published on DECEMBER 23rd.
Agents requiring extra copies will
need to notify the office at once, as
only a limited issue of the Christmas
Number will be available.
The Hand
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
When you feel dull after eating take
Chamberlain’s Tablets ; they strengthen the diges-
tive organs.*
YOU can’t judge a man by
his boots, but many people
do. So it’s wise to keep
your boots beautifully bright
with CHERRY BLOSSOM,
the most efficient and economi-
cal polish chat’s sold. You can
get the Black or Tan at most
dealers for 3d. and 6d. —very
large tins they are, too.
Will you try it this week?
You can’t start too soon on a
good thing.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patroriage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
Lighter Underwear for Summer
A nice discrimination is displayed in the selection,
of our Light-Weight Mottled Blue Underwear for
Summer wear. Both shirt and pants are light
without being too delicate in texture —cool, but
proof against sudden changes —and the material is
a pure knitted wool, and by a special process
rendered unshrinkable —so much so that we guar-
antee to replace any garment that shrinks.
The seams, buttons and button holes are strongly
finished, and the arms and legs end with ribbed
edges. •
EITHER SHIRT or PANTS,
All Sizes,
5/6
6d. extra Posted. '
New Catalogue Now Ready. Send fur a Copy.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
- ?
t.
V-
\ ;
Private Enterprise is a great thing, and
the middleman is a wonderful and valuable insti-
tution. The writer has before him a circular,
signed by five N.S.W. firms which make and
used to supply—the butter boxes in which the
man on the land puts his butter for export. The
circular explains that the firms are making butter
boxes with the same affability and aplomb as of
old, but that they won’t sell a single box to the
bloke on the dust any longer. Instead they have
disposed of their whole output to the New South
Wales Box Go., and the cove on the mud is in-
cited to apply to the said co. Pinned to this docu-
ment is a circular from the Box Co., setting forth
that it will gladly supply the individual on the
grass with butter boxes, as of old—at about 40
per cent, above the old price. The Box Co.
apparently doesn’t create anything itself. It
doesn’t cause two boxes to grow where only one
grew before, or make one box to flourish where no
box blossomed previously. It is simply the
eternal, combine for the purpose of raising prices
—-the sort of thing which is making State Socialism
more and more inevitable.
A thick fog-bank of trouble is rising over
the N.9.W. inland trout streams. The waters of
the Monaro and thereabouts were stocked at
some expense by the N.jS.W. Government
with imported trout. The attempt
to acclimatise the fish was success-
ful, and trout-fishing has come to
stay. The pursuer of the trout
is divided into two classes. To be
in the one, you want many things
money, time, about £lO worth of
rob and tackle, and weird boots
and clothing. Then you prooeed
(preferably in a motor-car) to
whack the surface of the water
with an artificial fly hooked on a
fine line. This is sport. To be in
the other class, you simply want to
live handy and possess any old
fishing-line, a grasshopper or two,
and a taste for fresh fish. Na-turally,
the anglers who spend considerable
money on the sport object to have
the waters fished out. The high-toned
angler, if he lands a dozen or so
fish in a day, is more than satisfied,
and is willing to throw some of them
back again to provide sport for
someone else. To the horror
of these people, the fiend with
the grasshopper in the pickle
bottle not only deliberately
hauls out dozens of trout, but he
has taken to fishing with a cask of
salt beside him in which to immure his
trout fdr market purposes. So the limit
has arrived, and the angler with the
weird boots is trying, hard to make
himself look numerous enough to frighten Wade
into doing something horrible to the mete fisher-
man with the bottled
Thirty bright young women employed in
drapery stores at Geelong (Vic.) have requested
to be allowed to work for less than the minimum
set by the Wages Board. They allege that their
employers can’t pay them the minimum wage-rate,
and its enforcement will mean that they (the
girls) will be bluchered out of their ladylike posi-
tions and deprived of at least 2s. 6d. a week each.
Now, as Girl is still, despite the rise in her
wages, the cheapest labor a draper can get, it is
plain that if the draper can’t pay her he can’t pay
anybody. Evidently, he is going to shut up, and
the sale'of drapery in Geelong will cease, and the
inhabitants will wear home-made clothes, or bags,
or nothing. It is a terrible outlook unless the
draper thinks better of it. This paper’s impres-
sion is that he will think better of it, and will just
go on making money.
Ifc is a hard job for a woman to get a vote
in conservative old England. A recent cable-
gram mentioned casually that a number of women
were going about naked because they wanted a
share in the management of the country. They
refused to put on the prison clothes of Bristol
gaol, on the ground that they were not criminals ;
and as their own clothes had been dragged off
them by the strong arm of the law they wore the
aspect of Eve before the worry with the snake
about the fruit. And the said aspect was. their
only covering.
Now that the Yic. honorarium has grasped
the niceties of the Gold Buyers Act, passed by
the late Bent at the behest of the mine-owners, he
gets in some choice work at times, as when he
lately handed one month’s hard labor to a Ballarat
miner for trying to sell l|oz. of gold for
which he “failed to account to the satis-
faction of the police.” The accused swore he
found it in Yarrowee Creek, Black Hill, and
called several fossipkers who proved that gold like
that was often found there ; but the honorariums
were looking the other way that day. The most
objectionablefeatureof the Actis that it throws the
onus of proof entirely on the finder. No doubt it
may rope in the guilty ; but the man who steals
gold as a habit knows 27 ways of getting rid of the
plunder ; so the law is rather more liable to rope
in the innocent. There isn’t a man living in a
gold-mining district who doesn’t keep his eye
skinned for “specks” ; but in Victoria nowadays,
even if he finds the “speck,” he could almost as
safely pick up a scorpion. For, as soon as he picks
it up, he is perfectly guilty until he proves himself
innocent.
* * * *
“ Harrison 0.” reports a strike in a red
jersey
A quaint strike is in course of eruption hereabouts
(Geelong, Victoria). The local Sal. Army band and about
130 Blood and Fire warriors of both sexes are “out.” It
all happened because somebody alleged that one of the
sisters had, at some time in the past, strayed some dis-
tance from the vertical path. Eight members of the corps
intimated that there Was not room for themselves
and the allegedly erring sister in the same division.
As the officer commanding refused to execute, burn at
the stake or expel the lady in question, the eight objectors
resigned their commissions and refused to fight for the
Bight in company with a lassie whose poke bonnet,
according to them, plainly revealed the places where the
ostrich feathers had once been. They even went to the
length of attending a meeting at the barracks and inter-
rupting the proceedings ; in fact, they behaved generally
in the manner of persons who had never been brought
under the refining influence of the War Cry. When the
case was tried by court-martial, it was decided
that the controversial sister should be retained,
but that the eight objectors to her were eli-
gible for re-admittance to the fold. This decision in-
censed the rank and file of the corps, the majority of the
members of which are upon the side of the sister with the
alleged past, so about 130 of them have struck. A great
gloom now hangs over the barracks, but there is joy in
my heart, for Ilive adjacent to a corner which is greatly
favored by the corps, and where Sheol has been let loose
about three times weekly for some years past.
A CASE FOR
THE WAGES
BOARD.
“ We thought you
knew how deadly
tired we were of
eggs and bacon.”
“ Thin why the divil didn’ ye tell me! D'ye ex-
pect me to do moind rcadin’ as well as plain
cookin' for fifteen shillin's a week? ”
A very loud-sounding proposition has been
hanging around the courts in Melbourne. It is,
or was, a company called Empire Builders,
Limited. It is said to have started with £lOO
authorised capital, and nominal borrowing powers
to the amount of £1,000,000, though it doesn’t
seem to have really borrowed anything ; and the
sum of £7 is mentioned as having been paid up.
The business of Empire Builders was to bring
immigrants from England and settle them on the
land, and it seems to have started with 190 acres
at Ballan, purchased in 1901 at ss. an acre.
The 190 acres of five-bob land and the £7
were small beginnings in the empire-building
biz, and while the empire was still busy laying the
first brick a local J.P. wrote a blighting letter,
and the Chief Builder paused in his building to
demand £lOOO damages.
THE SURF BATHER.
Rescuer (to his fair burden , who has been “ saved ” three times that da): “ Look here. Miss,,
if it's a husband you’re after it would be cheaper to advertise in the HEALU. It s
only in novels that a fellow always marries the girl."
Each was aged 19, and perhaps they were
a trifle reckless. Anyhow, a recent night found
them boating on the Yarra, somewhere above the
point when that stream becomes a salad. They
were “keeping company,” so the papers said, and
possibly kept it very carefully in the tail-end of
their bark. But details are vague and frag-
mentary. He says she resigned her engagement
or whatever it was in the vicinity of the rudder
and started to stroll towards the bows, whereupon
the unsteady sloop capsized. Naturally, they
were precipitated into the water. He could swim
a little and she not a, tiny bit, so the upshot was
that she disappeared without leaving any message,
while he got ashore. The police were notified,
and next day they fished out the poor damp little
damsel from the cold and turbid river. She didn’t
explain her absence very satisfactorily, but the
force gathered that she had overslept herself in
the Yarra’s muddy bed.
More good Cornstalk money has gone in
law. According to the Local Government Act
municipal bodies (which are the people) Can’t
levy rates on railways or on lands, etc., “ used for
railway purposes” (these also belong to the
people). The result is that the people are
often hard up in their municipal capacity,
but to make things square they pay sub-
sidies in their national capacity to themselves
in their municipal capacity. A while ago,
however, the Newcastle Council claimed that
when the Johnson Department owned a house
half a mile from the line, and let it to an
employee, and the employee virtually paid rent
for it—it being considered in fixing the amount of
his wages—-it wasn’t Used for “railway pur-
poses” but for private residential purposes. And
the thing was regarded as of such importance
that the Council and the Department have spilt
public money in every court right up to the High
One. This paper forgets what the absolutely un-
important decision was, but the people pay both
lots of Costs ; and if the Council gets its rates the
people pay them, and if it doesn t get its rates
the people don’t receive them, arid it is all foolish-
ness and vexation of spirit.
* * * »
“Old families” in Britain are largely in-
debted to the liquor trade for their nobility and
their money. In England the money-makers are
in the wholesale trade ; in Australia the money-
makers were mostly retailers. Tweedmouth, who
recently died leaving £200,000 or more, was at
one time head of a great beer firm. His family
name was Marjoribanks, which is not pronounced
“ Chumley,” as set forth in an insane American
joke, but “ Marchbanks.” There are other beer-
mongers in the Lords- —-the two Guinnesses, Bass,
Alsop, etc. In fact, the brewers are so numerous
that there has been an idea of creating a separate
beer-title or beer-peerage, so that a man might be
either Duke of Wolverhampton or Beer-Duke
(“Buke” for short) of the same place. In the
same manner, a Beer-Earl would be a Bearl, and
a Baron who had made his money out of ale would
be a Beer-one, and a Bishop who came of a brew-
ing family would be a Beer-hop, or perhaps a
Hop-beer.
This paper used to have an idea that Vic-
toria’s Justice Hodges was a saintly man; but —
well, this is the story of Mr. and Mrs. Houghton,
of South Melbourne, who both desired a decree
nisi. The statements of the married pair boiled
down to the pertinent fact that neither now loves
the other, whatever they may have done once.
The husband had periodically assaulted his wife,
had gone running after other goddesses, and had
deserted her for a period of at least two years ; in
fact he seems, by omitting to maintain her, to
have constructively deserted her for the last six
years. Not being able to keep herself and her two
children on nothing a week, the lady went to
“keep house” for a widower of her acquaint-
ance, and acquired a third infant. At present, as
she candidly admitted, she was keeping house for
another party, who, like the widower, was eager
to marry her if the law would let him ; but Justice
Hodges curtly refused to let him by declining a
separation. So the female part of this married
couple will no doubt return to her “house-
keeping” and the male part to his customary
occupation, leavened most likely by excursions
after strange goddesses. And Chief Justice
Madden will for his part no doubt continue to
animadvert upon the irregular baby and its too-
frequent occurrence.
• * • *
“ Jean Sibi ” goes to Mr. Dudley’s hall of
entertainments :
There is nothing So funny out of pantomime as the
ceremony of investing some arrant snob or political
humbug with, say, tile Immortal Order of the Purple
Prawn. The Imperishable Order of the PraWn is some-
thing extra in the way of honors, and Edward Vll.’s rep-
resentative is careful to conduct the investiture with
becoming solemnity. On a raised dais in the Hall of'
Ceremony Edward’s Australian agent sits in the robe of a
Grand Commander of the Holy Bootjack. A whispered
converse dies of precipitate strangulation. A far-away
door has opened with theatrical portentousness, and a
tiny procession is advancing slowly to the Variegated
Eruption on the dais. The Grand Chamberlain precedes
the intruders with the measured march of a mechanical
toy. His air is that of a lethargic deity quite unused to
earthly things, and he clutches the velvet cushion on
which rests the Prawn insignia, just as a dqchess might
clasp a plate of stew. Behind him stroll three humans
alleged to belong to the highest order of living
mammals. Two are Knights Commander of the Order,
and apparently are sponsors for the ex-publican or
cab proprietor who is to be a recipient of the Fish.
He is amazingly garbed, and displays great robustness in
his calves. The gorgeous riot on the throne or rostrum
winds itself up, grasps the sacred Order, hangs the shell
round the cablican’s neck, and pins the rest to his coat.
The pubprietor kneels, is patted on the shoulder with a
handy sabre ; and is quietly urged to “ Rise,. Sir Job.”
So Sir Job rises, grabs the warrants of his knighthood
from a respectful flunkey, bows to the whole assemblage,
pads out like a nocternal Sambo who has arrested a fowl
for loitering, and the breathless earth resumes its
suspended plod among the planets.
A HOLIDAY RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
In holiday mood I greet the sun
That shines more brightly than in town ;
Released from work that must be done,
I spend the days in “getting brown.”
The world is good, the world is wide :
Whilst men in town to work are tied,
I rest me on the country side
In Holiday mood.
In holiday mood one gives no heed
To speeches made in Parliament;
The books I brought with me to read
To other lazy folks are lent.
The world is fair, the world is wise ;
Then wherefore feed one’s brain with lies?
On Nature’s face I feast my eyes
In Holiday mood.
In holiday mood the moon I bless,
That lights betimes the mountain track,
Or glorifies the wilderness
For laughing Jill and lover Jack.
The world is sweet, the world is gay ;
At heart I’m still as young as they—
I cast my weight of years away
In Holiday mood.
The frivolous time is on the wing,
Each day glides quickly into night,
Joy of life is a foolish thing
If rest from work be pure delight;
For while we live there’s toil in store,
But when we die we toil no more —
Then O ! to trip to the Golden Shore
And meet my friends who’ve gone before
In Holiday mood.
VICTORIA.
E.F.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England,)
beat ail coiners at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent stock of Large Boilers for
all Mining Purposes, for working pressures of
1201 b, and loOlb. per square inch, by Ruston
Proc+or, Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
CAMEL HAIR”
BELTING
" Ei 1 'Ui to «'' -I mu
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Mining- purposes. Sole Agents,
BELTING.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY:
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT & BENDICO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The State Bank of South Australia, estab-
lished in 1896:
Business Premiums on Total
March, Profits. Bonds Sold. Profits. Reserves.
1899 .. £llB4 £7ll £1895 £4,765
1900 .. 1196 75 1271 6,036
1901 .. 1724 1724 7,760
1902 .. 2011 20il 9,771
1903 .. 2731 2731 12,502
1904 .. 3051 3051 15,553
1905 .. 3116 3116 18,669
1906 .. 3315 3315 21,984
1907 .. 3598 ' 3598 25,582
1908 .. 3798 3798 29,380
1909 .. — 4218 33,598
The S. Australian State Bank has about the freest consti-
tution of any State Bank in the Commonwealth. It is
not even restricted to loans to settlers. It goes on the
assumption that it is just as good a thing to free the
hatter or the implement-maker from the burden of heavy
interest as it is to make things easy for the farmer. But
it stops before it reaches the manufacturer’s works.
It will help him to get a cheap home for himself,
hut it can’t help him to get cheap machinery or
*'°. ll ® nance his business, and therein the farmer
still has a pull over the rest of the community. Yet,
especially in a droughty country like Australia, manufac-
turing ought to be just as sure a business as farming ;
and it can be if Australia likes to make it so by effective
Prelection. But while giving this bank large powers
S. Aus. didn’t touch the Savings Bank ; so there are two
State banks where one would answer all .purposes, and
make a better showing. Hence this bank’s figures are
not as impressive as they might be. This shows the size
of the business :
Expenses p.c. of
Advances Working Mortgages.
March, Outstanding. Expenses. s. d.
1899 .. £420,297 £3516 16 9 percent.
1900 .. 454,652 3701 16 4 „
1901 .. 507,408 3773 14 10
1902 .. 536,906 3985 14 10
1903 .. 561,746 3955 14 1
1904 .. 602,642 4120 13 8
1905 .. 582,216 3968 13 7
1906 .. 602,366 4105 13 7
1907 .. 613, 4205 13 8
1908 .. 631,414 4242 13 5
1909 .. 668,535 , 4559 13 7 ~
In all £1,386,153 has been lent, and £717,618 has been
paid back. There are no foreclosed properties in hand,
and the arrears of interest amount to only £498. One
wouldn’t, however, look for trouble of this kind in S.
Aus. just at present, for the State has hud a wonderful
run of good seasons, and property values have been on
the up-grade. They can’t keep on like that for ever.
While they do go that way, it is satisfactory to note that
fair reserves are being built up, though the total is
nothing to boast of yet. It is only just equal to 5 per
cent, of the advances; and it wouldn’t take much of a
slump to wipe that out.
The money is raised by issuing mortgage bonds.
These, according to the original cumbersome arrange-
ment, have to be paid off as loans are repaid ; and to
provide money for new advances, new bonds have to be
issued. This is the recent record in that respect:—
New Old Bonds Increase of Total
Bonds Repur- Bonds Out- Out-
Sold. chased. standing. standing
1901 .. £87,700 £37,700 £50,000 £504,200
1902 .. 86,550 61,600 24,950 529,150
1903 .. 68,290 54,440 13,850 543,000
1904 .. 100,490 55,510 44,980 587.980
1905 .. 35,340 54,570 568,750
1906 .. 76,690 64,110 12,580 581,330
1907 .. 96,890 85,620 11,270 592,600
1908 .. 104,510 106,030 591,080
1909 .. 121,100 123,380 . 588,800
If the time isn’t opportune for selling bonds, the
Treasury advances the money. On March 31 the amount
thus owing was £59,227. The bank borrows, on the
average, at about £3 13s. per cent., and lends out
at 4^,per cent. The terms of repayment are very liberal.
The maximum period is 42 years. On a loan running that
long, interest and instalment amount to only £5 6s. 6d.
per cent, per annum. On modern house property the
term is usually 20 years, and the payments amount to
£7 12s. Bd. per cent. When a man in fixed employment
can pay for a home in 20 years by an annual instalment
of very little more than 7J per cent, (which is less than
he often pays for rent), it is a better scheme than bar-
racking for the Government to borrow money to build
him a house for which he will pay rent, for under that
scheme he won’t be any forrarder after he has paid the
rent for 20 years.
'* * * *
The Bank of New South Wales :
To Re- Re-
trofits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Sept.,’o3.. 117,370 10 p.c. = 100,000 17,370 1,348 442
Mar., ’04.. 119,582 10 ~ „ 100,000 19,582 1,368,024
Sept.,’o4.. 120,435 10 ~ ~100,000 20,435 1,388,459
Mar., ’05.. 127,811 10 ~ „ 100,000 27,811 1,416,270
Sept.,’os.. 126,963 10 ~ ~100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar., ’06.. 129,385 10 ~ ~100,000 29,385 1,472 618
Sept.,’o6.. 130,1i.5 10 ~ ~ 100,000 30,115 1,502’733
Mar ’O7 -f ul > 581 10 „ ~100,000 26,581 1 . , OQ
’ ” (Voted to Provident Fund 15,000} *>529,314
Sept.,’o7.. 142,966 10 p.c. = 110,635 32,331 1,561,645
Mar., ’OB.. 156,742 10 ~ ~ 124,399 32,343 1,593,988
Sept.,’oB.. 167,928 10 ~ ~125,000 42,928 1,636,916
Mar., ’09.. 176,426 10 ~ „ 125,000 51,426 1,688,342
Sept.,’o9.. 182,362 10 ~ ~ 125,000 57,362 1,745,704
But that is not what the dozen shareholders who attended
the meeting opened their ears widest to hear. (That is
about the average attendance—one dozen out of the 3100
or so on the list.) The choice bit which made their
mouths water was the chairman’s announcement that the
time was ripe for increasing the capital again. The idea
is to issue another 25,000 shares at a premium of £5. The
shares are £2O paid ; so £500,000 will be added to capital
and £125,000 to reserves. This proposed increase
was, of course, a profound secret; nevertheless,
somehow shares moved up from £4B 15s. in
August to £5O 10s. before the meeting was held.
At present there are 125,000 shares ; so one new share
will be issued for every five. At £5O for a present share,
this works out as follows : Five shares at £5O = £250. One
share at £25. Total for six, £275. Average, £45 16s. Bd.
Return, assuming a 10 per cent, dividend, as hitherto,
7s. 3d. per cent. To get a return of 5 per cent.,, the
price that might be paid for the present shares (cum
rights) is £43. If one is content with a 4-| per cent, return
he might pay £4B ss. Considering the risks of the bank-
ing business in Australia, so long as the securities
are largely pastoral, it is questionable whether 4J per
cent, is a good enough return for bank shares. "just
at present, no doubt, the risks are pushed far into
the background. Rut they are there all the same. This
great bank has now £21,012,092 out in advances. They
have only to shrink 20 per cent, on the average to account
for a loss of £4,202,418 ; and capital and visible reserves
at present only amount to £4,245,704.
The business has had a very rapid growth the
last few years ; and the increase of capital is called for in
order to keep pace with it. Here are. some aggregate
figures as at Sept. 30 in the years mentioned :
1895. 1900. 1909.
Capital .. .. £1,594,200 £2,000,000 £2,500,000
Reserves .. .. 1,194,346 1,276,743 1,745,704
Total liabilities .. ,21,369,185 24,735,489 32,732,416
Liquid assets .. 9,254,352 11,941,272 15,383,529
Advances.. .. 14,675,035 15,528,146 21,012,092
Premises .. .. 621,000 650,000 707,500
In 1895 the bank owed the public £6 18s. for every £1 of
its own. In 1900, when an increase of capital was in pro-
gress, it owed £7 11s. for every £l. At present it owes
just under £7 15s. ; and that proportion is too
large. The bigger the proportion of public’s money, the
bigger the shareholders’ risk, of course ; and the bigger
also the depositors’ risk. However, the depositors’ risk
here isn’t likely to keep anybody awake at night; because
between depositors and trouble stands, not only the
capital and reserves, but a reserve liability of £2O per
share. No doubt the man who only gets a 44 per cent, re-
turn to-day may calculate upon getting morein the future,
either by further increases of capital on easy terms or by
a straight-out increase of dividend. The Australian voter
is, however, inclined to look with much suspicion on any
concern which pays more than 10 per cent. So far as banks
are concerned, that is a very good thing. Even this bank
paid 17£ per cent, for many years prior to the breaking of
the boom in ’92. There is probably as much real profit in
banking as there was in the ’eighties; and the-smaller
divs. paid nowadays must be resulting in a much
stronger internal position than ever existed before.
That, of course, means a larger capacity to resist bad
times, and to maintain the dividend in spite of them ;
and one is entitled to take this into account when con-
sidering whether the 10 per cent, is likely to be lowered
or not.
In the past 12 months the chief movements have
been
Sept., 1908. Sept., 1909.
Notes.. .. £1,000,851 £1,001,334 Inc. £483
Bills, etc. .. 3,326,758 3,965,805 Inc. 639,047
Deposits .. 26,872,785 27,765,278 Inc. 892,493
Liquid Assets 12,554,262 15,383,529 Inc. 2,829,267
Advances .. 22,226,206 21,012,092 Dec. 1,214,114
Premises .. 690,000 707,500 Inc. 17,500
Deposits have kept on growing ; but advances have been
cut down. Possibly the money hasn’t been wanted ; and
possibly again this, like too many other Australian banks,
hasn’t been prepared to give as much help to industrial
concerns as should be given. As a matter of fact,
machinery firms often have to practically finance new
enterprises; and the price the latter have to pay for the
accommodation is murderous. This bank holds plenty in
hand ; its cash and liquid assets are equal to 47 per cent,
of its total liabilities. In 1895 the proportion was 43 per
cent. In 1900 it was 44 per cent. The present position
is therefore very strong. And yet earnings have im-
proved. Calculated on the basis of capital and reserves
combined they have lately been as follows:
Mar., 1906 .. £7 10 3 p.c. Mar., 1908 .. £7 15 11 p.c.
Sept., 1906.. 7 9 10 „ Sept., 1908.. 8 4 1 „
Mar., 1907.. 7 4 1,, Mar., 1909.. 810 7 ~
Sept., 1907.. 712 10 ~ Sept., 1909.. 814 2 „
With the increase of capital now announced the total will
reach £3,000,000; and that is all the Act allows. Presently,
therefore, an amending Bill will be introduced, empower-
ing it to go further as circumstances require. It is only
just 75years ago, by the way, since the capital was in-
creased to £40,000. Up to that time —for some years at
least-—it had been £30,000. And still some people growl
that Australia isn’t moving, and want to know why we
don’t import a few million coolies to set things going !
The Australian Mortgage Land and Finance
Co.:—
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1899.. 46,649 7£ p.c. = 39,000 7,649 311,298
1900.. 61,586 7| „ ~ 39,000 22,586 333,884
1901.. 39,616 7| „ „ 39,000 616 334,500
Loss.
1902.. 78,963 Nil ~ 255,537
June, Profit.
1903.. 588 Nil -- 688 256,125
1904.. 12,135 2J p.c. = 13,000 256,260
1905.. 53,259 6 „ ~ 31,200 20,943 1,116 256,376
1906.. 100.354 7j ~ „ 39,000 12,394 48,960 305,336
1907.. 157.490 12j „ ~65,000 23,000 69,49,0 374,826
1908.. 102,933 12j ~ „ 65,000 6,680 31,253 406,079
1909.. 51,631 12£ „ „ 65,000 7,012 385,698
Look at the first column, and you get some idea of what
kind of gamble the “great natural industry” of wool-
growing and wool-barbering is. The country which
depends on an industry giving results of that sort will
have whips of money to-day and want a sand-shifting job
to-morrow; and the people who make their plans while
the feast is on are liable to be in serious trouble presently.
It is when one considers a column like this that one
wonders what will happen to the Federal Government if
it is bound down to return 255. per head per annum to
the States—the same in a year like the one which gave
this co. a loss of £78,963 as in the one which pre-
sently gave it a profit of £157;490. The co. itself is an old
institution consisting mainly of J. Bull. Down to 1891
it mostly paid 20 per cent. ; but it then had to take over
many of its mortgages, and fora time it was in possession
otmore Far Western (N.S.W.) country than probably any
other concern. The drought which came about that time
really gave that country a badly-needed rest ; and the
subsequent recovery enabled the co. to pull out without
any crushing losses. Its paid capital is £520,000; but it
has also issued £1*900,000 of 4 per cent, and £lOO,OOO of 3
per cent, debenture stock. This debenture stock, by the
way, is in much the same position as the 255. per head
payment by the Commonwealth to the States would be ;
it has to be first provided for, no matter what the season
may be. The co.’s own funds, as well as this large
amount of borrowed money, are chiefly represented by
advances ; but there is a very substantial holding of more
or less liquid investments also. This shows the principal
assets at various dates ;
1901. 1908. 1909.
Cash, public stocks, etc.,
less sundry creditors .. £48,095 £352*861 £392,125 '
Advances and properties.. 2,363,214 2,289,345 2,261,239
Sundry debtors and store
premises 469,355 322,874 291,334
The shareholders’ capital has to protect the very large
sum borrowed on debentures ; and, moreover, most of
the money is no doubt out in securities which are liable
either to total disappearance or to horrible depreciation.
Shareholders don’t, therefore, get their 12J per cent, divi-
dends for nothing. Still £385,698 is a nice little reserve
to have on the premises ; and when they look upon that,
shareholders probably take a less gloomy view of their
liability of £2O on some shares (£5 paid) and £22 on
others (£3 paid).
* * * «
Farmer and Co., Ltd., drapers and furnishers
(Sydney)This co. was formed in 1897 to take over an
old-established business. The purchase price was about
£293,000. Of that the vendors took £150,000 in ordinary
shares; 200,000 cumulative pref. shares were issued, and
they took 66,666 of them also. The present capital is
£156,230 in ordinary and £200,000 in pref. shares.
Originally all the shares that the public was offered were
sold in London, and the stock got a quotation on the
London Exchange ; but during the last few years shares
have been drifting out to Australia, where the majority
of the directors now are. The cumulative pref. shares
have had their div. regularly ; they don’t participate in
anything beyond 6 per cent., and very few, if any, of the
other sort are on the market. For some years the latter
got 12J per cent. Recent progress has apparently been
as follows
Reserves
Dividends. (Goodwill not
.- ” reckoned as
July, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinarv. an asset).
1905.. £18,411 £12,000 10 p.c. =£15,603 £lB7
1906.. 19,001 12,000 4 ~ „ 6,249 939
1907.. 22,223 12,000 7 „ ~ 10,936 226
1908.. 28,702 12,000 8,, „ 12,498 4,430
1909.. 32,706 12,000 8 „ „ 12,498 12,638
Goodwill stillstandsat £30,000 ; so nominally, according to
the published accounts, the reserves are £42,638. This in-
cludes a formal reserve fund of £31,000. The reserve fund
haying: now passed the amount of the paper item, doubtless
the latter will be wiped out. The co.’s total liabilities on
July 31 were £95,758 ; this included mortgages, £80,567.
,J e ..A?, se * :s include freehold premises and plant,
£■-£4,603; stock, £180,542; sundry debtors, £26,172.
Apparently freeholds and plant are being written
° f profits 1 at any rate, the item stood at
£-34,681 in 1908, and twelve months later it was
over £lO,OOO less. The visible reserves are very small;
if they were larger the position of the cumulative
pref. shareholders would be better, of course. Still,
at the worst of times there has been a large margin between
profits and the amount required to satisfy this preference
capital. The freehold property is also very valuable, and
u 6 niortgage on it is not oppressive. Pref. shares seem
therefore to be pretty well protected. The trouble is
that, if the business increases, they get nothing out of the
increase except a little more protection ; though
they don t get as much of that as they would if the ordi-
nary dividend were not usually made so high as to leave
hardly anything over. The lowe.-t point touched (in re-
g' ea r s > anyway) by the pref. shares was £8 10s. in
IJO6-7 ; since then they r have usually been a shade over
par (£10).
Bendigo Mutual Permanent Land and
Building Society (Bendigo, Vic.): —
n f Net Added to Re-
TfSm Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
•* ~ 5 per cent. =£24SO £21,296
1901 .. £2641 5 „ „ 2461 £lBO 21,476
J 902 .. 2310 5 ~ ~ 2323 21,463
1903 .. 1905 5 ~ ~ 2151 21 217
1904 .. 1611 5J ', ~ 2309 20i519
J 905 .. 2124 6 ~ ~ 2407 20,236
JOO6 .. 3027 6£ „ „ 2633 894 21,130
J 907 .. 3247 61 ~ ~ 2909. 338 21,468
1908 .. 35 r 2 6£ ~ „ 3160 412 21,880
1909 .. 4538 61 ~ ~ 3350 118 S 23,068
Some of the figmres in the last line are only approximate,
as the exact amount the dividend will call for isn’t yet
ascertained, because a building society hasn’t a fixed
capital like an ordinary co. The profits have apparently
had a big jump this year; but the following partly ex-
plains it
Gross Written Off Oon- Net
Profit. tingenev Fund. Profit.
3904 .. £3431 £lB2O £l6ll
190 a .. 3474 1350 2124
1906 .. 3946 419 3527
1907 .. 436J5 1116 3247
1908 .. 4333 761 3572
1909 .. . 4732 194 . 4538
The contingency fund is a provision against probable
losses, and is drawn upon as losses are ascertained by
sale or otherwise. In the past y'ear very little was
written off the fund, possibly because there were very
few sales. If, however, the losses are merely accumulat-
ing, nothing much has been gained. Still, there are
several reasons why gross profits should have increased,
as this will show :
1900. 1904. 1908. 1909.
Capital .. .. £52,064 £43,216 £51,028 £54,246
Deposits and
other debts .. 79,063 86,400 80,501 78,507
Advances .. 138,838 133,382 139,203 141,773
Properties .. 14,519 16,079 16,189 16,323
Cash .. .. 1,228 2,696 944 944
Other assets .. 318 387 233 130
So capital has increased, and, while more money has been
out earning interest, there has been less interest to pay.
For a building society' the reserves are pretty solid, and
as they and the capital amount to just about the same as
the total liabilities, the latter (mostly deposits) are very
well protected.
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Victoria
(Melbourne): —
Carried
to Re- De-
Profits. Dividends. serves, licit.
Aug., 1906.. £4 Nil £4 £5
Feb., 1907.. 11 6 per cent. = £8 3 2
Re-
Au» 1907 f £2 6 ~ ~ 23 19 17
Aug., iwf.. -(Forfeited capital .. .. 5 22
Feb., 1908.. -f 47 . 6 P?r cent. =44 3 25
lforfeited capital .. .. 8 33
Aug., 1908.. |„ 52 c , 5 Per cent. = 47 5 38
I Forfeited'capital .. ..12 50
Feb., 1909.. { 44 .. . 4 per cent. =44 - 47
(Forfeited capital .. ..12 59
Aug., 1909.. 57 4 per cent. = 45 12 71
This little concern was formed primarily to finance cus-
tomers who might want credit from the Civil Service Co-
operative Stores, and it is an uncle to Redtape and Red-
tape, jun., in other ways. The book-valueof loans is now
£2735.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 Co.—When it has post-,
mortemed this co.’s accounts, The Bulletin’s habit
hitherto has been to show the quantity of ore treated, its
value, and the profit and dividends paid term by term. But
in recent years so much of the co.’s profit has come from
stored by-products that it doesn’t seem worth while
sticking- to the old habit. Here are a few figures instead
to show the co.’s recent financial history :
Profit. Divs. Profit. Divs.
Mar., ’03.. £1,509 Nil Mar., ’06.. £46,804 £60,000
Boss. Sept.,’o6.. 49,625 30,000
Sept.,’o3.. 1,777 Nil Mar., ’07.. 61,945 55,000
Profit. Sept.,’o7.. 65,786 50,000
Mar., ’04.. 12,680 Nil Mar., ’OB.. 12,256 30,000
Sept.,’o4.. 11,090 Nil Sept.,’oB.. 22,080 5,000
Mar., ’05.. 20,438 Nil Mar., '09.. 39,284 10,000
Sept.,’os.. 114,340 £15,000 Sept., '09.. 28,844 20,000
The profit for the past few terms has been made up as
follows
Sept., Sept., Mar. - , Sept.y
1907. 1908. 1909. . 1909.
Siver-lead concentrates.. £51,243 £13,070 £2ll £2073
Stored by-products .. 10,000 5,311 36,164 23,735
Current by-products
(unsold) .. .. 3,113 3,156 ‘ 1,388 1,679
Interest, etc 1,430 602 2,197 1,357
£65,786 £25,139 £39,960 £28,844
Less reclamations on
final adjustments .. 3,059 676
£65,786 £22,080 £39,284 £28,844
The mill was at work for rather less than four
months of the past half-year owing to the Broken Hill
labor commotion ; and from the working profit for
that period £3652 is deducted to cover costs incurred
in connection with the trouble. Actually more than
£23,725 was received from the sale of stored by-products :
but this co.’s plan is to credit itself with Is. per ton as it
makes the by-products ; so when they are sold, that
much, of course, has to come off the revenue received.
All profits shown above are gross. The amount written
off to cover wear and tear varies ; the directors appear to
fix it on no general principle. For the past half-year it
was £10,167.
The co.’s financial position is strong. Besides
£102.106 which the Zinc Corporation, the De Bavays, and
other people owe on account of zinc tailings, there are
£80,260 of liquid assets in excess of liabilities, not count-
ing timber, stores, etc., as liquid assets. There was a
doubt at one time whether all the people who had bought
zinc tailings would be able to pay for them ; but the Sul-
phide Corporation and Zinc Corporation are making so big
a profit nowadays that, unless something very bad happens
to the spelter market, the doubt is just about wiped out.
Counting in the payments to be received on contracts
inade, the liquid surplus is equal to £llBs. per share. On
top of that are the unsold products and the ore in the mine.
No estimate of quantities is furnished. In fact, no esti-
mate of ore reserves has been made for over two years,
when there were supposed to be something over 700,000
tons in the mine. As to neither ore reserves nor unsold
zinc tailings is the position strong—which probably
accounts for the absence of'any estimates. Block 10’s
tailings, etc., have always commanded a high price on
account of their high contents (which to a
great extent means owing to the poor recoveries made
by the concentrating mill); so by far the greater part of
them has been sold. And as for the ore, the great shoot
which the B. H. Prop, has lost in its northern end, ana is
losing now in its southern end, will probably also pec
out in Block 10 in the course of another couple of hun-
dred feet or so. There may be another body underneatn,
but it is very doubtful.
* * * *
The new proposal with regard to the Aus-
tralian Newspaper Co. (Sydney) is that it shall be given
deeent burial, and that The Sun and Star Newspapers,
Ltd., shall be planted on its grave, there to flourish ex-
ceedingly. As explained some weeks ago, the idea is to
give the old shareholders 26,000 deferred shares and issue
34,000 new ones of £1 each—2s. -down and 2s. per month.
These new shares will be 6 per cent, cumulative pref.,
and after they have had 6 per cent., and the
deferred shares have had 6 per cent, in any year, they
will all rank alike for any further div. that may be payable.
The shares were offered to present holders until Nov. 30 ;
after that date the public was invited to come in. And
if it comes in and the management is what it ought to be,
there should be fine profits ahead. So far about £60,000
has been spent; and most of it has gone in finding out
the things the co. shouldn’t do in the future. So the co.
will begin with a chart, so to speak, bought and paid for
by its unfortunate old predecessor.
* * * *
The Westralian Bank directors have now de-
cided on the terms of the new issue of shares. There are
17,500 already issued, and 2500 will be offered to present
holders, one for every seven now held. The price fixed is
£26. Payments are spread over 12 months, but if the
full amount is paid by March 26 next the share will carry
the full dividend for the current half-year. If shares can
be got cum rights at £3O, they will, with the new issue,
give a return of £6 16s. per cent, at the price. The posi-
tion of the bank was discussed in Thk Bulletin of Nov. 18.
Broken Hill Block 14, tired of trying to find a
payable body of sulphides in its deeper workings, is said
to be looking out for a mine in Tasmania or elsewhere.
It has about.£6o,ooo to play with, though some of that
may be wanted to pay for a plant to treat the zinc-
bearing dumps. This is the first Broken Hill co. to look
outside the district for a mine.
* * -* •
The Murex zinc-concentration people in Eng-
land have resumed negotiations with Broken Hill Block
14, with which they had contracted to put up a plant;
and the co. expects a start to be made with construction
work early next year. No plant on this principle has yet
been tried in Australia ; but the co. has handled a bulk
parcel of Block 14 tailings in England. 1
* * * *
British Broken Hill, which has been doing no
productive work lately, made a loss of £5877 in the past
half-year ; and to that has to be added £2540 for depre-
ciation. The money has gone in development and man-
agement. Preparations are now going on for installing
an Elmore zing-concentrating plant.
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, Broken Hill, pays
its ordinary shareholders a 10 percent, div. at last, after
a weary wait of nine years. Prefs. get their 10 per cent,
too, so the lot calls for £96,250. It is a heap of money for
a mine to pay with metals still bringing only a very
moderate price ; but the Sulphide Corporation owns one
of the really great mines of Australia and of the world.
That it hasn’t paid ordinary shares better is simply
due to the fact that it was grotesquely over-capitalised,
and has had to pay interest not only on 550,000 of pref.
shares, but also on a heavy swag of debentures! And on
top of that came the mine creeps. The management—a
very able management, by the way—professes that it loses
no sleep now on account of these creeps ; but still there
is always some danger. It is now probably the best-
equipped silver-lead-zinc mine in the world ; and with
metals at even their present priees it should have no
difficulty whatever in paying 15 per cent, all round,
while the present big stocks of old tailings last. And by
the time they are exhausted it may have found ways of
making-more money out of its zinc than it does to-day.
“ The capture of Mr. Bellinger was an exceed-
ingly good stroke.of business; the co. never did a better
stroke in its life,” So the chairman of Great Cobar
(N.S.W.)told the debenture-holders who met in London
a few weeks ago. And if Mr. Bellinger does what they
say he says he is going to do, it is quite a mild way Of
putting the matter. “He estimated that when he was
able to deal with 45,000 tons of ore per mon th, yielding 900
to 1000 tons of blister copper, the costs of producing that
copper, without the gold and silver contents, and allowing
for the cost of refining and realising, would be £25 per
ton of copper. This would make the Great Cobar one of
the cheapest copper-producing mines, if not actually l the
cheapest, in the world.” (Applause.) Rather ! Itought
to be loud and continued applause. Take Cobar ore to
be worth 2£ per cent. Then £25 per ton of metal means
12s. 6d. per ton of ore. Mt. Lyell, handy to the seaboard,
and therefore handy to its fuel, can only produce blister
copper for 15s. 3d. per ton of ore; and the bulk of that is
simply quarried. Lyell has got its smelting down to
about 7s. per ton ; its converting to Is. Id.
Total Bs. 7d. If Cobar is going to mine; smelt,
convert, refine and realise for 12s. 6d. per ton,
then (assuming smelting and converting cost the saj»e as
at Lyell) it Will have to mine, refine, pay Johnson, and
realise for 3s. 11s. per ton ! If the stuff doesn’t average
2J per cent., then, of course, the tonnage of ore tp pro-
duce a ton of copper will be greater. Last year the
average was 2 1-5 per cent. ; and on that average copper
at £25 per ton means that the costs must be got down to
11s. per ton of ore, or only 2s. sd. more than Lyell pays for
smelting and converting alobe. Truly, if Mr. Bellinger
can do this, he is a jewel, and is worth £50,000-a year
at the very least. It is safe to say that Blakeniore,
whom the Syndicate reckoned 'a pretty good -man,
couldn’t produce copper even with the present appliances
at anything under £4O; and if Bellinger can turn out
1000 tons a month, the difference between £4O and £25 is
£lBO,OOO a year. Mr. Bellinger has a big American repu-
tation. But Sticht, of Lyell, is a man with a sizeable
reputation too ; and what he has been able to do with an
easily-handled mine and a cheaply-smelted ore is probably
a better criterion than what it is alleged Mr. Bellinger
merely thinks he can do. If he can do it, he’s a great
copper man, and Sticht is comparatively small potatoes.
But for the present, while heaping good wishes on
Bellinger, it’s worth while having a penny ortwoon Sticht.
Cobar (N.S.W.) is full of trouble. The Great
Cobar has closed down its furnaces, being short of coal ;
and as.it has a programme of construction work in hand’
it 'isn't likely that they will start again for some weeks
even if the coal strike is settled. Cobar Gold Mines are,
as usual, doing nothing worth mentioning. Now the Queen
Bee has closed. And, to add insult to injury, the Qobar
railway service.has been cut down to three trains a week.
This last is the straw that breaks the camel’s back. To
lump Oobar—the biggest centre of the copper-mining
business in Australia—with wayback one-pub townships
is more than the place can bear ; and if Mr. Johnson went
up that way now he would hear language that he
never heard in his Sunday-school.
The Great Britain Sluicing Co., Emmaville
(N.S.W.), made a profit of £2479 in the six months to
October 22, and can now plume itself on being about the
most consistent tin-sluicer in N: S. Wales. Yet its ground
is nothing out of the way ; it is worth about 2£lb. to the
yard, and is tough in places apd takes a deal of
shooting. The management, however, was strong
enovfgh to sit down tight and make ample water-
storage arrangements before it paid divsi; and even now,
though those arrangements are complete, it is putting by
a tidy bit. Of last half-year’s profit £l3lO went in divs.
(equal to about 60 per cent. p. a. on the paid capital), £582 to
reserves, and £587 was written off. The total reserves
are now £1472 ; the dams have been written right off ;
likewise one-fifth of the cost of the plant. The co. lately
secured some adjoining ground, and another plant is to
go in there. The co. is in 8735 shares, with 1265 in
reserve.
» * * *
Bourke’s Hill, Emmaville (N.S.W.), made a
profit of £3292 in its last six months. Since commencing
to sluice, two dividends have been paid, amounting to
£2250.' The dirt yielded nearly 21b. of tin oxide per cubic
yard ; 119,800yds. were sluiced for 106 tons oxide,


“PERPETUAL”
It is only by the appoint /nent of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
3, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
SAMPLE GRINDERS
FOR REDUCING SAMPLES TO
POWDER FOR ASSAYING. **
Write for particulars to
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalg:oorlic.
[2
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saying of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.’
* * * *
Jodklitb-Wood Preservative, for preserving
timber against White Ants, Dry Rot, Fungus Teredos,
ravages rats, damp walls, etc. Used by 7 all Australian
Governments. 1250 galls, supplied S.A. Government
in one order in September. Agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, also Melbourne and
Brisbane.*
In the Supreme Court of New South Wales, in
Equity, a suit lately brought by Bell’s Asbestos Co. Ltd.,
of 315 Kent Street, Sydney, against Perdriau Rubber Co.
Ltd. for infringement of trade mark and selling engine
packing as “Dagger,” not of the plaintiff company’s
manufacture, has been settled upon terms agreed upon
between the parties, the defendant company acknowledg-
ing the plaintiff company’s right to the exclusive use of
the device and the word “Dagger” in connection with
engine packing, and consenting to a perpetual injunction
against the use by the defendant company of such device
and word, and paying the plaintiff company’s cost of suit.*
*■ * * *
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions of
this furnace are as follows —168 in. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom —thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne:* [2
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement ”
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, lire,
acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney.* [3
If coal and other mining companies, railway
contractors and users generally are desirous of purchas-
ing explosives at competitive figures, we should strongly
advise them to enquire into the unique and thoroughly
original terms and conditions offered by the CArF,
Explosives Works Ltd., whose agents, Noves Bros.
(Sydnev) Ltd., 109 Pitt Street, will be glad to give them
full particulars on request. A mail card request will cost
you one penny ; the saving to be effected is illimitable.*
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, in its
October ’OB number, comments upon the last report of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited as
follows: —“To have completed £1,278,034 of new business
is a really splendid achievement for any office, but for a
comparatively young one (having been established in 1873)
the figures are of intense interest, and indicate the force
of the power which the Colonial Mutual has attained in
the insurance world.”*
* • • *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
Refractory Mines. — Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
•*■.*'**
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * •
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.—Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S.W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.*
* * » *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria,*
•* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * • *
The coal strike has given a further impetus to
the sale of suction gas engines and plants, and those who
have already installed a Ruston Plant are finding the
great advantage of being independent of the coal supply'.
The producer works splendidly on charcoal fuel, and as
the cost of installing a plant is small compared to that of
a steam engine and boiler, the installation of a Ruston
Plant naturally presents to power users a more attractive
proposition than the closing down of the works. Gibson,
Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William
Street, Melbourne, have all sizes of suction gas plants
in stock.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
averaging- 73 per cent, metallic tin. There are two plants,
and a week or two since the reservoir was running over
the by-wash. On past results Bourke’s Hill can produce
tin concentrates (73 per cent.) for £45 18s. per ton.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek, one of the big deep-lead
gambles of the New England (N.S.W.) district, got a bit
to go on with the other day when it picked up6in. of rich
wash in a crosscut from the shaft. But a 6in. deposit
isn’t what the optimists are building their hopes of a for-
tune upon.
» * ■* *
The guess that the west drive at the No. 2 level
in Lobb’s Hole (N.S.W.) has been off the main vein seems
to be coming true. When it was recently picked up, the
manager went back on his steps, put in a crosscut under
the winze sunk from No. 1 level, and has now got a rich
15in. vein. This puts a different face on prospects at
Lobb’s.Hole; though it’s still not a mine to trust the
widow’s mite to.
* ■* * *
At Neeld’s mine, which in the early days of
Wyalong (N.S. W.) was valued at a sum running into six
figures, the owners are still prospecting at the 900 ft. in
the hope of picking up the rich shoot which cut out at the
400 ft. Surveyor Harper, of the Mines Department, has
recently been overhauling the geology of this and the
neighboring leases with the object of finding- out the best
place (if there is one) for a shaft to get at the reefs at a
greater depth than has so far been reached.
An effort is being made to develop the old
Enterprise, at Reefton (N.S.W.). John Campbell, late of
the True Blue, Wyalong, has taken over the management.
Main Ridge alluvial field, Rockley (N.S.W.), is
becoming quite a lively little place, and applications for
leases are dropping in on the Warden. Private land-
owners are generally up in arms against the miner, but
in this instance they stand to gain more under the Mining
Act than the barren land will give them so long as they
keep it to graze sheep on. It has been known for years
past that the cement would return about 4dwt. per load ;
but a battery has a better chance of making it pay than
the primitive appliances hitherto used.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) has passed the three
million mark in dividends, and the Horseshoe has onlj' a
furlong or thereabouts to go. Besides having paid the
most, these two have the biggest ore reserves, calculating
those often unreliable goods in pounds sterling. This
list show’s these things and others relating to all the
chief mines of Westralia:—
Cash Value
Issued of Ore
Capital. Revenue. Dividends. Reserves.
Great Boulder.. £175,000£6,649,854 £3,103,675£2,536,360
Horseshoe ..1,500,000 7,207,600 2,925,000 2,692,700
Perseverance ..1,399,459 4,798,794 1,426,240 547,093
Ivanhoe.. .. 100,000 5,641,153 2,348,750 2,325,520
Associated .. 495,364 2,812,722 691,499 1,024,840
Assoc. Northern 350,000 1,484,324 665,000
Great Fingall ... 125,000 4,016,163 1,696,875 408,000
Ealgurli .. 120,000 2,290,112 907,500 1,118,300
Lake View .. 346,771 4,184,269 1,408,500 242,000
Oroya-Brown
Hill ... .. 450,000 4,601,583 2,146,241
Sons of Gwalia.. 350,000 2,567,638 555,670 850,000
The .eleven mines set out above, with one or two others
w’hich have fallen by the way, have been the prop
and pillar of the gold industry in the'West. No doubt
their outputs and dividend distributions are astonishing
achievements in their way ; but it is the future that
speculators have to study and not the past, and the
figures arrayed in the last column are all that they have
to guide them. From these it would appear that six of
the eleven would probably be passed for insurance as good
lives, three might get cover with a welter weight of load-
ing, and tw’o whose reserves are represented by dashes
instead of numerals are officially admitted to be on their
death beds, and consequently couldn’t get a policy at any
price. In the absence of other mines to fill up the gaps
the outlook isn’t therefore nearly so brilliant as it would
appear at first sight.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for October :—•
Value
Ton- Revenue. Profit, per
nage. £ £ ton.
Great Boulder .. .. 18,792 50,075 27,006 53/3
Golden Horseshoe .. 25,006 48,826 20,030 39/-
Kalgurli 9,650 25,365 13,482 52/7
Ivanhoe 19,677 40,822 20,022 41/5
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 13,601 22,721 8,864 33/5
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,666 20,831 8,105 31/9
Boulder Perseverance.. 19,016 27,055 4,380 28/6
Great Fingall .. .. 10,863 14,958 1,892 27/6
Associated .. .. 11,505 21,218 6,016 36/10
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,591 11,539 4,412 50/3
South Kalgurli .. .. 9,040 12,511 1,517 27/8
Lake View Consols .. 11,528 13,464 2,510* 23/4
Hainault 5,600 7,939 1,525 28/4
Associated Northern .. 3,734 5,002 1,338 26/9
Chaffers 3,310 6,600 1,746 39/10
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,235 5,782 2,808 51/9
Gwalia South .. .. 2,134 4,210 532 39/6
Northern Mines .. 7,211 7,904 219 21/11
Boulder No. 1 .. .. 2,129 2,209 139 20/9
North White Feather .. 2,200 3,428 521 31/2
Peak Hill.. .. .. 6,808 2,578 106 7/7
Vivien .. .. .. 3,493 3,769 13 21/7
Ida H 1,200 2,919 119 48/8
Ingliston Extended .. 580 1,910 322 65/10
Karangahake .. .. 605 1,350 315 44/7
Sirdar .. .. .. 920 611 116 13/3
Loss.
Orion 750 1,130 116 30/2
Cumberland .. .. 345 762 117 44/2
Marvel Loch .. .. 1,300 1,773 20
including £985 derived from the treatment of old
tailing’s.
* * * «*
A departmental return dealing with the em-
ployment of foreigners on mines has just been laid on the
table of the Westralian Assembly. The inquiries made
show that out of 11,759 men employed by the big mining
cos. 953 were someone else’s subjects. There Were also
143 men who had taken out naturalisation papers. Six
mines—all back-country ones—employed 45 per cent, of
all the foreigners returned. Outside these properties
the average was only 5 per cent, of the total number em-
ployed. In a minute attached to the report, Minister of
Mines Gregory reckons that if the return had included all
the small mines the percentage of aliens employed would
not be more than 6 per cent.
■* * * *
An analysis of the Hainault (W.A.) accounts
for the year ended May last reveals the following financial
results: Receipts, £75,915; working expenses, taxes,
etc., £68,821; depreciation, £6478 ; net profit, £617. The
reason for this rather poor showing isf the drop in grade
to 225. 10d., as against 245. 4d. and 28s. 7d. in the two
previous years. The ore reserves are again estimated at
100,000 tons, but the gross value is 295. per ton, or Is. per
ton more than the estimate of 12 months ago. This im-
provement is reflected in recent monthly returns, and
there has also been a better extraction. During- the
period covered by the accounts the bank overdraft at
Kalgoorlie was reduced from £10,735 to £4893, and the
directors announce that since the close of the financial
year the returns from the mill have entirely liquidated
this debt.
* • * *
This extract from the general manager’s annual
report explains to some extent the recent fall in Kal-
gurlis (W.A.): “ Development has not opened up during
the year sufficient ore to keep pace with extraction. In
the ordinary course two new levels should have met the
demand ; but, although 1450 ft. is turning out very well,
1550 ft. has not yet provided anything definite enough to
be taken into account, whilst at 1650 ft. not much work
has yet been done. We have lately been spending
monthly on development and prospecting an amount
greater than at any time previously, and this vigorous
policy should show good results, provided the ore bodies
maintain in depth anything like their usual character. An
estimate of developed ore, based on as close calculations
as the erratic nature of the lodes will permit, gives a total of
430,000 tons to a depth of 1500 ft. In addition to this
there is indicated a considerable quantity of probable ore
such as had been located by diamond drilling, which, of
course, cannot be taken into account. The grade will be
the return shown by a fair and general working of the
ore bodies as at present. During the past year 15
different levels have contributed to the ore supply, and
the average grade has been 575. 2d. as against 595. Bd. for
the previous year.” Compared with last year’s figures
the ore reserves show a drop of 80,000 tons. No approxi-
mate grade is given on this occasion, but for the purposes
of calculation it may he safely put down at about 525.
per ton. Shareholders’ interests are being well attended
toon the mine, and since the above report was penned
the outlook has improved a bit.
• * * *
Gwalia South (W.A.) has circularised share-
holders on the subject of new development and plant
improvements. Ever so many drives, crosscuts, winzes
and rises are to be either started or extended, and a
whole lot of alterations and additions are to be effected to
the treatment and power works. The approximate cost
of this ambitious programme is not given, but the £lO,OOO
just received from Lionel Robinson as consideration for
a like number of new shares should just about pay the
bill.
* * * *
Gwalia Proprietary, alias Great Tower Hill
(W.A.), has won the confidence of the new manager.
Having cut some stringers at 85ft. and had a look down
the main shaft, this optimist is certain that he has
stumbled across a mine with a great future, and has
hurriedly told the Board in London so. Unfortunately,
however, the property has made fools of so many since
the first co. was formed to work it (there have been
several reconstructions in the interim) that the
man nowin charge had better postpone his transports
till he knows his new love better.
* * * *
Westralia Mount Morgans held a meeting in
London on October 13, when resolutions sanctioning a
further reconstruction and empowering the liquidator to
pass off the assets to a new co. were agreed to., The co.
has been angling for capital for some time, but so far
hasn’t had a nibble worth calling a bite.
• * * *
The affairs of George Darlington Simpson, the
Westralian mine-promoter, were again discussed in the
London Bankruptcy Court about the middle of October,
when a day was appointed for the public examination of
the debtor. The filed statement of accounts shows lia-
bilities £21,392, and assets sufficient to yield a surplus of
£28,879. His appeal against the verdict in the Peak Hill
Goldfield case—the case which caused him to seek sanctu-
ary in bankruptcy—is still pending.
• * * *
“Gnumballo”: lie Barrambie Ranges ” (W.A.).
A correspondent (B. 4/11/’Q9) makes an apology for this
wild cat—says loz. ought to pay but does not, on account
of metallurgical troubles. It does not pay because the
gold-bearing portion of the lode will not average more
than 3jn, in width (inches, mind), and the country is
hard and bad shooting. The metallurgical difficulty is
just about as serious as the old gold-stealing and water-
shortage yarns, which have been dropped. Silver and
lead certainly do occur, but in small quantities. The
former reduces the value of the bullion ; the latter, in
the form of galena, is separated on the Wilfleys, leaving
an easily cyanided sand and a marketable concentrate.
Something more than a buoyant spirit will be needed to
keep the concern moving—something that will appear
about the second Wednesday in the month at 3d. or6d. a
time.. Values and the length of the shoot have steadily
diminished with depth, and, in writer’s opinion, will con-
tinue to do so.
* * * *
First Chance, Ballarat East, has been trying to
justify its name since the days of Dick Gilpin ; but it has
splodgy reefs and poor gold. So i t has fizzed and fussed
for a few seconds like a bogged motor-car, and then
settled down to inertia. Thus, though £76,828 worth of
gold has been got and £7964 of capital was put up, only
£6750 has been paid in divs. at odd times. How such a
claim gets going and keeps going would puzzle a quarter-
deck lawyer who didn’t know the deviousness of Ballarat
“ mining.” The item, “ contractors’ percentages ” tells a
good deal of the tale. Tributing makes it possible to keep
the claim going. It may seem anomalous, after
saying so much, to add that the show has better chances
now than it has had in the past. Still, that is the case ;
for the Sulieman lode looks like developing into a gold-
bearing formation.
* * * w
The flag of Ireland still waves over New
Dempsey’s, up at Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.). Work at the
new shaft didn’t turn out profitable, but no one
lost heart. The old plan of mining on the dyke
ought never to have been departed from, despite
amateurish advice tb the contrary. Old Nolan was too
wise to believe in any other creed than that “where she
is there she is.” So he got the dyke, got gold and got
shares up to 60s. Everywhere in Gippsland successful
mining in dyke country has been due to gold worked on
or near the dyke. Long Tunnel’s troubles have all arisen
since the reef has got away from the diorite. New
Dempsey seems about the same. Let it pick up a make of
quartz, and the old days of market pickings and mine
dividends should return ; and hundreds of people who
admire pluck will wish Dempsey’s a Christmas-box when
they open out on Hunt’s dyke from No. 5 level this
month.
■» • • *
Loddon Deep Leads, in the Clunes district of
Vic., is a good sample of blown-out puff. One E. T. Hol-
loway, chairman 18 months back, came to Victoria, saw
and (so he thought) conquered. Loddon Deep Leads to
him was a Madame Berry and a Great Southern
in one. Now it’s a busted show, as busted as
Drysdale Brown’s Charlotte Plains, where prospects of
ever so many oz. to the fathom were once gotten. The
Charlotte Plains had a run of gold, poor though it was.
The Loddon Leads doesn’t seem to have justified its
puddlers even that far. Holloway, now that the sugar is
off his little pill, murmurs : “We have got enormous areas
blocked out, but when the wash was taken to the
puddlers it was found to be not payable.” Holloway,
having thus learnt wisdom at Loddon Leads, turns the
claim down. But he has still a stake to fasten to.
To retrieve his reputation as a floater he advises working
5000 acres pegged out at Carrallulup. This area appa-
rently takes in the Madame Hopkins mine, a bit away
from the Loddon Leads. The ground always had a
decent reputation, but it is as wet as Cape Horn in a
storm. So the manager may be right when he says:
“ There is no doubt that the co. will pay dividends from
the Carrallulup ground, if it has the means to work it.”
The “ means ” provided is £BOOO. It is ridiculous !
A. E. Langford has achieved another triumph
by hooking' in A. E. Weinberg on the directorate of the
Mount Balfour Copper Mines. First Ekberg, now Wein-
berg. Who next? Perhaps Bowes Kelly and Tolhurst,
or Keats, with Baillieu to fill up any gap in the happy
family.
*. * * :■
Though, apparently, Mt. Lyell saves 2J per
cent. our. of its2J per cent, of copper, the ore tonnage is
so big that the metal losses in a half-year run to between
400 and 500 tons, worth say £22,000.
• • » *
Charters Towers is having a dull time, so it is
taking more notice of the Broughton. That patchy
neighborhood is likely to have a good prospecting, for
several new leases have been taken up during the last
three or four weeks. The Blue Peter has been doing
fairly well in shallow country ; 120 tons for £1123 enables
this little show to pay a 3d. dividend. Attention at the
moment has turned on Blucher’s Victory, which has been
following a payable reef down, and has a rattling good
prospect, with 2ft. of stone in the sink. The underlay
has been sunk 214 ft., the last 60ft. of which seems to have
averaged Ift. of mineralised stone. There are 30,000
shares.
* 9 * *
Some of the old Charters Towers mines that are
trying to gouge out a living below 2000 ft. are having a
sickening time of it. Brilliant Deep crushed 310 tons (ex-
clusive of a small trial lot) for an average of 68s. per ton
—which sounds better than it is ; for the stone is small.
Bad ventilation prevents the rapid development of the
footwall reef below 2413 ft, The stone, moreover, is not
nearly* so rich as it was generally expected it would be.
Queen Cross has stopped boring at a vertical depth of
3029 ft., and is opening on a small formation at 2148 ft.
* * • *
Mount Elliott, Cloncurry (Q.), has dropped
some hints that it is coming out as a 10 per cent, proposi-
tion before very long. No large reserves of pyritic ore
have yet been blocked out, but a fine body of iron and
copper pyrites is showing 60ft. east of the crosscut at the
400 ft. level.
* * * *
Hampden Cloncurry (Q.) gets along slowly with
development, and so far only a small patch of sulphide
ore has been found below the 200 ft. level. The Duchess
is down 332 ft., and it is intended to sink deeper before
opening out. The 260 ft. level north has been extended to
the 300 ft. mark, and 56in. of 10 per cent, ore is showing
in the face. The mine has not sustained the exuberant
reports put about some time since, and the south drive is
a failure compared with the north. Still a bulky show of
copper glance, easy to smelt, is certain to be heard of
when smelting is started. No one knows when that is to
happen.
* * * •
Gilmore’s (N. Queensland) sent 24 tons of tin
stone to the little battery six miles away for a return of
2 tons 4cwt. of concentrates. There are better prospects
in the Midas lode, and having some cash in hand the
directors intend to sink the shaft. Since the Dolly Gray
and Midas tin shoots cut out, this mine has subsisted on
small crushings at irregular intervals; and it isn’t at all
likely to do anything more in the future. In fact, all North
Queensland tin mines are the same. Even the Vulcan,
the most persistent of the lot, only had its long record of
dividends because there used to be merely a handful of
shares to satisfy. Then the northern promoter found a
big crop of southern fools waiting for him to gather in ;
and that bucolic, guileless-looking party gathered it in
all right.
» * * •
If S. Australia can find £lOO,OOO or so to buy
and equip a coal-mine in one of the eastern States, it
might at least spare 100,000 s. to thoroughly test the one
place within its own boundaries where promising coal
prospects have been got. That it has done so little
is no doubt due to the fact that the district is
375 miles north of Adelaide ; and it would cost
more to haul the coal that far by rail than
it would to bring it across from Newcastle by boat. So
Adelaide hasn’t been much interested ; and, besides,
where minerals are concerned, S. Aus. suffers a good deal
from the Stinking Fish disease. Still, if S. Aus. isn’t in-
clined to give Leigh’s Creek a trial, why shouldn’t the
Commonwealth Government? It is settled that the Com-
monwealth shall build the rest of the transcontinental
railway, and run the service from Port Darwin to
S. Australia; and it is, therefore, tremendously in-
terested in getting fuel supplies handy. Leigh’s Creek
is right alongside the transcontinental line ; so, from this
point of view, the Commonwealth is more interested in
proving the Leigh’s Creek deposit than even S. Australia is.
All that has been done so far is a little boring. From the
surface to 1496 ft. bands of shale and calcareous beds were
passed through, all carrying carbonaceous matter, and
from 1496 ft. to 1544 ft. there was a bed of coal, not
of the best quality certainly, but still in parts
of good quality. It is not brown coal, as some
have alleged ; R. Etheridge, the N.S.W. paleon-
tologist, brackets this deposit and the Ipswich
(Q.) seams, from which Brisbane draws its main local
supplies. Cosmo Newbery, of Victoria, examined sam-
ples of the core, and pronounced the coal “ an excellent
fuel for steam and domestic purposes.” But, since it lies
375 miles north of Adelaide, Adelaide hasn’t bothered. It is
time the Commonwealth did bother. That the deposit is
375 miles north of Adelaide doesn’t make it less valuable
from the Commonwealth’s point of view ; in fact, if it
was 475 miles north, it would be a trifle more valuable
than it is now.
+ + K
Captain “ Teddy” Miles and another Tongkah
director are trying to arrange matters about the dock
and channel with the Siamese Government, and propose
to make a cash payment instead of doing the work. This
isn’t at all like the old yarn ; it was actually going to pay
the co. at one time to do this work. Evidently engineer
Bluck’s report wasn’t so cheerful as they tried to make
out. It is significant that, though an alleged cable digest
of it was published, the report itself has been kept up the
co.’s sleeve.
* * * •
Shareholders in a mostly-Maoriland co., Hum-
phries Patent Bracket and Scaffold Co., Ltd., heaved a sigh
of relief the other day when they got a circular—“ Sales of
patent rights are now under negotiation”; but when
they were implored not to say a word about how* the co.
had been doing, lest it might prejudice the sale, they
began to take a different view of the position. Some of
them even said that they didn’t want to take anybody’s
money if it was necessary to suppress the truth in order
to get it. As a matter of fact, the concern has so far had
a shocking career. The paid capital is £36,542, and
although nothing has been written off patents, a total
loss of £4281 is shown. This, however, is put among
the assets as “ Exploitation expenses.” Apparently the
co. has been trying to do business in Maoriland, Aus-
tralia, Britain, Canada, and the United States, and it
shows a loss everywhere for the past year. This co. has
less than £2OO in hand after providing for outstanding
petty debts ; and considering the small progress it has
made in either selling its patents or getting them adopted,
it seems to have a very rocky time ahead of it.
* * * *
A London syndicate has recently been regis-
tered to take over a number of options held by the Aus-
tralian Fibre Co.—the people who are interested in the
S. Australian seaweed which, it is said, can be turned
into cloth. The fly in the ointment is the royalty pay-
able to the State, though as this royalty is only
to be calculated on net profits, there isn’t any-
thing very alarming about it. The average owner
of a coal mine property wants 6d. per ton on
the gross output whether the concern makes a profit
or not; but the S. Australian Government only wants
5 per cent, of the fibre profits if they amount to as much
as 40 per cent, of the invested capital. On the average the
royalty amounts to less than one-fifth of the profits.
Melbourne people who had been considering the proposi-
tion said it w*as shocking ; yet at that moment Melbourne
was getting excited over Siamese tin-dredging proposi-
tions, although the Siamese Government collects a royalty
of anything up to £27 per ton on every ton of tin mined
in that territory.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W. A.) stands behind the follow-
ing wealth Estimated profit on ore in sight, £82,270 ;
ditto on accumulated slimes, £8925; ditto on aecumu-
lated sands, £4350 ; ditto on accumulated concentrates,
£812; bank, deposit, £5206; cash (including bullion
reserve), £7664 ; stores, £2062; total £111,280. Deduct-
ing: outlay on slimes plant £3OOO, sundry debtors £1671,
dividend duty £5300, administration £2OOO, a balance of
£99,228 remains. , As this is over 100 per cent, of the
present market valuation, shareholders are wondering'.
Is it that the stock is merely not fashionable, or is it that
official estimates regarding profits are not taken seriously ?


We will send this Box post paid to any address
on receipt of 11-
2 Spools - 50 yds. \ Black
1 - 100 „ , or
2 - 10 „ Twist ; Cream
This will enable vou lo
TEST THE QUALITY
and realize that in using other brands you are
paying as much money for very interior Silk.
CORTICELLI SILK CO., Ltd.
91a York Street - - SYDNEY, N.S.W.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
EDUCATION BY POST M
LEARN
TO
earnJ
High Salaries await our
students of Shorthand, Type-
writing, Bookkeeping, Ac-
countancy, Electrical Engi-
neering, &c. “ Home Study,”
postfree. Stott&Hoare’s Busi-
ness College, Moore St, Sydney
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
r "
mm
Ilonlhan
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One*Third of Your Running Cost.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Polstan ” : There is probably no animal
that is so sudden in his last moments as a bullock.
He may be at the very last gasp—all out—but
he’ll get up like a streak of light and do a rush
before he dies ; and.that rush is apt to be a very
thorough performance too. I once saw a bag of
bones—just a whisper of a bullock—with only five
more breaths to go, rise with great suddenness
and bowl a horse and. rider over with the greatest
apparent ease. It then threw the rider over a rail
fence and fell dead on the disgusted horse. Any
cattle-man would prefef to handle a thoroughly
savage bullock in the prime of life than approach
one dying of weakness and starvation. No bullock
dying a natural death dies sane ; and his madness
consists of one great craving for murder.
* * * *■
S. M. Herald has lately been running a
series of articles concerning “The Wool Land,”
and this (22/10/’O9) described the sort of princi-
palities that happen therein :
Dunlop is one of four very big runs, owned mostly by
Mr. Samuel McCaughey, on the Darling. Dunlop is
1,000,000 acres; Toorale, next door to it, on the river, is
also a million ; Fort Bourke, next to Toorale, is 400,000 ;
and Nocoleche, at the back of Dunlop, on the Paroo
River, is 800,000. They make practically one enormous
property of three and a quarter million acres. They
reach along one bank of the Darling for 95 miles as the
crow flies, or, as the river winds, %80 miles. They stretch
hack across two rivers, the Warrego and the Paroo.. .
Tnere is one fence on Dunlop that runs 43 miles, or, if
Nocoleche, at the back, be counted, something like 90
miles.
And then the Herald went on to explain what
sort of land this is which is growing sheep, but
darned little else
The people of N.S.W. have talked a good deal of the
irrigation which might be carried out by the big fanners
along the Darling, though they have never locked the
Darling to see if it might. . . . But at Dunlop, on five
acres of irrigated lucerne, which was levelled at a cost of
£l5 an acre, they fed 240 stud sheep for three months—
turning them first on to one half and then on to the
other. They get seven crops yearly off that paddock, and
have just doubled the size of it. Every sort of fruit, from
strawberries to bananas, grows about the house. There
is another paddock irrigated by the water from .the wool-
scour, and to be planted this year with Rhodes grass from
Africa. And to crown all, 12 miles and 30 miles across
the Darling respectively, irrigated only by the rain
around them, are two paddocks of 200 acres each. At
the nioment of writing they are waist-high with wheat!
From that 400 acres they will crop 150 to 200 tons of hay,
which in these parts is worth anything up to £l6OO. It
will have cost perhaps £4OO to plough, sow and reap.
There really seems to be room for a progressive
land-tax or some other kind of State interference
to break up principalities of that kind.
HIS FACIAL DEVELOPMENT.
COPPER: “I don't want any more lip, d’ye hear!”
CHEEKY KID: “ No; what you want is a lot of
hair to cover up what you've got.”
“Yarrum” hangs an advt. on the tail of
a tiger :
Lately the South Coast (N.S.W.) has been invaded by
many wild and disorderly animals. The scare started
with the Jamberoo tiger, which some road-menders heard
through a log. A bank manager saw the thing in the
moonlight, after shut-up time, and is sorry now he men-
tioned the matter ; and a doctor at Mount Kembla heard
strange noises through the smell of his motor-car (you
can hear tigers through almost anything). After that
the tiger stuck up a butcher’s cart at Jamberoo, in broad
daylight, and devoured all the poor man’s sausages. Only
yesterday we got word of a lion at Bemboka. A party,
armed to the eyes, went in pursuit of it. One S’African
hero, who carried a Winchester, spotted the beast 200yds.
away, but was “ too frightened to shoot.” Only recently,
too, a big crop, of bunyips appeared about Wollongong
and Kiama. People, however, are now quite used to
strange beasts, and children carry bunyips in their school
bags, and sleep with them under their pillows. When
cut open the local Bunyip (price, Is.) is found to contain
good Australian articles bv South Coast school teachers
and scholars, and 6000 of it are born every month. Alto-
gether, it is arl interesting animal, even if it doesn’t roar
as loud as the Jamberoo tiger.
GOOD LOGIC.
PAT :“I say, Mick, I’m very hard up. Can
you Lind me the loan of a pound ? ”
MICK: "Begorra, Pat, to tell yer the thruth I
haven’t a boh on me. Every penny I get I
give to my poor old mother.”
PAT: "Be jabers, Mick, I've just been talking to
yer mother, and she tells me ye never give
her a cent."
MICK: “ Oh, well, Pat, if I don't give my poor
old mother a cent what sort of a chance have
you got of getting any?”
“Jimmie Pannikin”: So generous has
the season been so far, that between the railway
fences from Yass to “Coota,” and to “Mutta,”
and to “ Gundy,” and to Tumut, there is splendid
feed in abundance—enough to fatten thousands
and dozens of sheep and cattle. Two fine samples
were recently exhibited in the Coolac Public
School during a local-geography lesson. These
remarkable specimens were found with millions
of mates growing along the railway track
at Coolac. At first sight, one might easily
mistake them for sheaves. One was a root of
oats, with 51 strong stems, having a height of 6ft.
6i.n., with every promise of a large yield of grain.
The other was a root holding up 85 ears of wheat,
which, though not fully developed, are from two
inches to five inches long. Prolific Australia,
indeed ! Let us teach our bairnies to believe in
Australia —in us and in themselves. The average
Australian does not more than "5 appreciate this
lonely, lovely wonderland of ours.
The weed known as Patterson’s purse
spreads amazingly in Riverina. Round Carra-
thool the plains are at times a blaze
of purple to the sky-line by reason
of this pest, which kills off the
native grasses wholesale. Popu-
lation is required to keep it
down ; but Sturt, the county in
which Carrathool stands, has less
than half a person to the square
mile, and even that half-person
is diminishing. The enormous .
cost of 419 miles of railway
carriage to Sydney makes busi-
ness impossible. Melbourne is
fairly close at hand, and if rail-
way communication were allowed
with that port, business might
flourish, and then there would be
more people and less Patterson’s
curse. But the old, foolish con-
gestion policy prohibits connection
with Melbourne ; so there are less
people and more Patterson’s curse.
* * *
The Victorian cocky has to he completely
and finally dead before he leaves off trying to,cut
down his workman’s wages. The other day one
of him was hauled in from his coekying by a
mortal illness. Worn out at last, the household
called in a nurse to help make the old man’s
journey out as comfortable as possible. Various
relatives were gathered around him. Presently
he wanted to speak. They propped him up, bent
over him and listened, while he breathed heavily.
“That woman,” he gasped, pointing a lean finger
at the hireling who was tidying the opposite
corner. “ That woman ! Charging 255. V week.
Too much. A pound quite enough ! ” Then he
sank back on his pillow, and died happy. He
had done his “duty.”
“Jack Caul”: I beg to
cite Waioron-
gomai (eastern
shore of Lake
Wairarapa, and
away below
the Rimutaka
ranges) for the
windy-pl ace
stakes. I base
my case, not on
grotesque men-
dacities, but on
cold facts. So
hard does it
blow here that
the settler going
in to Feather-
stone has at
times to place a
boulder on the
windward side
of his buggy to
prevent it being
capsized. It is
the only place
where I have
found trees with
their roots grow-
ing at a higher
elevation than
their tops. The
silver birch (Fngus
Solandri), where
it does occur, is to
be found in that
attitude so dear to
king - worshippers,
with its head and
body on the ground
and' its base ele-
vated. In fact,
everything isblown
flat (except the
hills). All the winds
on these hills gather
from the gullies into
one funnel of a
gully, and the result
is Hell’s bellows
gone mad. On one
occasion two brothers were drowned in the lake.
At the inquest it was found that, although the
water was no more than knee-deep, the deceased
had been simply smothered. They had been
flung down and the water had blown over them in
sheets. It was a side-wind from this blow which
shot the train over the Rimutaka some years ago.
“ Edyson ” : Superstition takes root in the
bush. I have discovered much evidence of it. A
country cousin down for the races provides an in-
stance in point. He told me of the misfortune of
Ratcliff. Andy Ratcliff was one of the party
that started for a picnic in Friar’s Gorge at Fill-
well. The party was packed into an American
waggon, and Tom, the groom from the Branch
Line Hotel, was driving. Tom had been sub-
jected to too much hospitality before the start,
and was not certain about the straight and narrow
way along the Hanging Lip, with the result that
the waggon and the picnic party went over the
ledge and fell into'the timber below. When the
wreckage was lifted off Ratcliff he was found to
be so badly damaged that he had to be left at
the home of the Ancient Selector down on the flat,
but the picnic was not postponed. Andy’s in-
juries proved to be much worse than was
imagined. “When we called for him on the way
home,” explained the country cousin, “we found
the poor beggar was dead. Of course we were
cut up, but perhaps it was just as well. You see
if he'd gone on with us there’d have been 13 to
dinner.”
QUALIFYING FOR HIS PROFESSION.
TRAVELLING SHEPHERD (attracted by sounds of
hard swearing): "See here; don't you know
it’s very wrong for little boys to be swearing
like that ?"
SMALL BOY: “No, it ain't. I'm goin' to be a
bulloek-drivev when. I grow up—seel”
“Lad”: The following is a theory I
heard expounded in a country pub one night
lately :
Grasshoppers ! Why, they comes first as little moths.
Then they turns into what syntistscalL coocoons, or some
such name. After they are tired of bein’ a coocoon they
crawl out, and there yer have the grasshopper. Then,
after a time, he gets tired of bein’ a grasshopper, and he
turns inter a stock and stashun agent.
THE SONG OF THE LITTLE AUSTRALIANS.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
He was opposed altogether to the construction of the
line from Oodnadatta to Bine Creek because it would not
be of benefit to any part of Australia. — The amazing
Johnson, M.H.R., of N.S.W.
There is a land which, all the year,
Flows gladly with milk, honey, beer,
Wheat, wool and sundry other things,
Of which an Austral poet sings.
It is a land of lavish crops,
Where Nature’s bounty never stops.
Australia mine ! Australia dear !
Rise up, ye patriots, and cheer !
But, please understand,
When we sing of our land,
Of our country of fair renown,
We refer to the piece
■ (Let tlie cheering increase)
That encircles old Sydney town.
For we’re all men —
Small men—
Men who can never expand ;
But we cheer very hard for our own back yard,
For our own little piece of the land.
There is a land of bright green smiles,
Where railways circle round for miles
To fetch the produce painfully
Down to the city and the sea.
Where engines puff and long trains glide
To drag the goods to Yarra side,
Or to old Sydney’s harbor grand.
This, this is our own native land !
But, pray, have a care.
When you hear us declare
That Australia e’er shall prevail,
We refer to that bit—
To that portion of it
That is readied from the city by rail.
For we’re sound men,
Bound men—
Men who can never see far ;
But we’re putting our shirt on our own bit of dirt
Where the railways and settlements are.
There is a land where jumbucks bleat,
And travell’rs ne’er a soul may meet;
Where lordly squatters’ sheepvvalks spread,
And beasts, instead of men, are bred ;
A land where strangers may not pass,
And Progress must keep of! the grass.
This is our land, our very own!
The rest of it we leave alone.
For, pray ye, observe
That the country we serve
Doesn’t reach very far from the coast.
’Tis the bit that we know,
And, wherever we go,
We shall make it our pride and our boast.
For we’re free men,
Wee men,
Men of parochial build ;
But our own little squeak, though it’s feeble and weak,
Will require a long time to be killed.
There is a land where, thanks to us
(Though foolish persons rage and fuss),
Congested population grows,
As ev’ry fat exploiter knows.
Where men increase and multiply,
We’ll have a surplus by-arid-bye ;
But still we’ll advertise for more
For this dear land we barrack for.
But, please bear in mind,
Though we’re never unkind
To a patriot, sterling and true ;
lie’s our hatred intense
If he won’t mind our fence ;
For this talk of expansion won’t do.
We are dense men,
Fence men,
Men who ure keen at a deal;
And we’ll cheer all our days for the portion that pays;
That’s the sort of glad pride that we feel.
This is our land—O, happy place !
Where population grows apace,
Some day it will be crowded, crammed;
But while we live we shan’t expand 1
What do we care, men of our build,
For empty spaces to be filled?
We own no pride in that far spot!
’Tisnot our land ; we know it not.
And please be informed.
You nave shouted and stormed
- For the land on the far outer track ;
But, we give you our word,
It is clearly absurd
To attempt/ to develop Outback.
We are proud men,
Loud men
When we yell for this side of our fence ;
But we’re mentally cramped, and our ardor is damped
When you mention a seneuie so immense.
There is a place, we understand,
Somewhere beyond our native land?
They’ve christened that Australia too,
Rut with it we have nought to do.
They boast of riches it has got
Plain nonsense to the patriot.
We cheer for our Australia fair.
.(Australia can’t be everywhere!)
For ’tis time people learned
We are only concerned
With the Yarra, the Torrens or Swan—
With our own little spot;
And we don’t care a jot
For the country they’re Harping upon.
For we’re keen men,
Mean men ;
We’d give it away to the Jap.
Dear old Sydney’s our land—our Australia so grand !
And to Hell with the rest of the map !
Australia ! Land of noble work !
(That is, not further back than Bourke.)
O, land of honey, milk and corn !
(We mean that portion south of Quorn.)
Land that is fairest, brightest, best!
(Except the centre, north and west.)
O, hail Australia ! Proud ! Immense!
(But please observe our bound’ry fence.)
And, pray, understand,
When we cheer for the land,
’Tis that bit of it under our thumb ;
The rest’s in a state
That can easily wait
• For the far generations to come.
For-we’re meek men,
Weak men,
And we cannot respond to your call.
But we cheer like one thing for the Empire and King ;
.For we’re mean psuedo-patriots all.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


BOON TO FAT PEOPLE.
A Home Remedy and the Recipe.
Obstinate over-stoutness is such an unhealthy
and humiliating affliction that it is no wonder so
many men and women adopt extreme measures,
and subject themselves to all sorts of discomforts
and trials, in order to recover slimness. The
worst of it is that these measures are generally
dangerous as well as, useless; and the flabby,
wrinkled condition fat folks often reduce them-
selves to is the reverse of attractive. Why do they
starve and exhaust the system in this perverse way
when there is no need for it? Here is a prescrip-
tion which is all sufficient to bring down the
weight to normal, without requiring any departure
from one’s customary dietary :—One half-ounce of
Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract of Glycyrrhiza
8.P., and one ounce of pure Glycerine B.P. Add
Peppermint Water to make up six ounces in all.
Your chemist will mix the ingredients for you,
or you can do it yourself at home without any
trouble. The dose is two teaspoonfuls after each
meal and at bedtime. Don’t think it necessary
to dispense with any of your favorite dishes.
Wholesome food will do you good. And don’t
fatigue yourself with physical exercises Just “lie
low ” and let the simple treatment do its work ; it
won’t incommode you in the least.*
When your liver is sluggish, your nerves
unstrung, take Chamberlain’s Tablets; they re-
fresh the svstem.*
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
-Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties.
Send full particulars, with all plans and repo-ts
available, to “MINE,” care j. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
ONE CLOCK
that is absolutely reliable and dependable in a house is
worth all the others that are erratic.
WE sell only such reliable clocks.
ANOTHER large shipment of our famed “Fx&R.'’ Marble
Clocks has just been opened.
The DESIGNS are classic, quiet, elegant, and of a type rare
r in Australia. " '
The movements are profoundly accurate, and can be relied on to a
few seconds a month.
EVERY Clock is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order
without charge for two years (breakages excepted).
zs
fi
5
r\
SB*!
Marble Striking: Clock
(with Cathedral Gong 1 ), size
12in. x 10in., 84/-, and will
go for 21 days.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ Moorabinda’s ” religious story :
The Hauhau religion in Maoriland was concocted by the
Maoris themselves, subsequent to the introduction of
Christian sectarianism, and at the time the English made
war upon them over the matter of the land laws. Bishop
Selwyn said that the Hauhau superstition was simply the
expression of an utter loss of faith in everything British,
clergy and all alike.
At one Hauhau church (it was a rectangular building,
mud floor, no windows or furniture, large porch elabo-
rately carved with figures), a revival was held, the con-
gregation having become slack. The people rolled up in
force, and the collections amounted to £ll. A meeting
was then called to decide what to do with the money, and
it was dulj' determined that it should be used in the pur-
chase of the most expensive Old Testament that could be
procured (the New T. was discarded by the Hauhaus). A
brother was despatched to Auckland on the sacred errand.
But the very best Old Testament only cost £5, so the
brother took back £6 worth of rum to make things
square. His conduct was much applauded, and it was
agreed that the cask should stand just inside the church
door for general Sunday use. Anybody who got tight
was to be fined 2s. 6d., the money to be spent on more
rum.
Things went well until one Sabbath morn, when a
Maori lady, coming rather early, had three drinks before
tiie rest of the congregation happened along. By the
time the sermon began the poor girl didn’t feel very well,
and the verger, not knowing her past history, revived
A GOOD JEST NOT EASILY FORGOTTEN.
JACKEROO (who has been away on sick leave):
“ Hulloa, Tommy! Bet your laife you don’t
wemembah me?"
TOMMY: “My oath! You're t'c plurry jackeroo!”
her with rum. This fourth pannikin of drink made her
so irritable that she wanted a fifth, and when it was
denied her she rudely broke the hack off a pew and used
the wreckage as a club with which she belabored the
verger and the parson and the flock. It took six church-
wardens to get her down and quiet her. Then it was de-
cided that, in order to prevent a repetition of the
scandal, all the rest of the rum should be drunk imme-
diately. This was done, the intoxicated lady vainly
clamoring for her share, and the barrel was thrown into
the middle of next week.
HIS RECORD.
The Immoderate Drinker (to kind soul who has b[?] cxpatintiny on the shookinyness of drink
for half an hour or more): “ Well, if it comes to that, mum, I’ll bet I’ve been a
teetotaler ofteher than you."
“Stockwhip”: I know I’m late, but I
have onlyjust read “Nomadic’s” reference to the
churinga, or “ bull-roarer,” of Centralia (B.
15/4/’O9) —-we wanderers often have to wait for our
Bulletin for a few months. Possibly fashions
change with niggers as they do with whites ; but
in 1898 I saw at Paddy’s Hole (Arltunga) a bull-
roarer fully 18in. long. It was attached to the
usual hair-string, and was twirled round and
round his head by a male relative of the “ boy,”
what time four bucks approached with the victim
firmly held full length on their shoulders, on the
way to the trench in which they stood whilst the
“ceremony” of initiation to manhood was per-
formed. This “roarer” made a deeper note
than the shrieking of the smaller ehuringas,
which are, I feel confident, used by young
bucks to call the gins, or a gin, after dark.
And that is the belief among old bushmen of
these parts (Alice Springs). I well remember a
practical joker at Alice Springs spending half a
day in the manufacture of a churinga, and wear-
ing away part of his forefinger at night while he
buzzed the concern in order to have some fun
with a bibulous white fellow, who had been a fre-
quent visitor to the Sturt Arms during that day,
and who was camping across the creek with a
dusky sister for a “ horse hunter.” (That’s the
local name for them.) The imprecations of the
bibulous one and his lusty challenges to the (sup-
posed) amorous black buck to come up closer were
wafted across the sandy bed of the Todd, and
were relished by the townspeople. “Bull-roarer”
is a misnomer. Another and more significant
term is used locally, but “I doubt ye’ll prent it.”
“Potassium”: No, “ Polstan ” is not a
liar ; he fluked the noble truth when he said that
snakes were undrownable. I got to work some
time ago and hunted for snakes until I secured a
prime brown calamity. This I shoved into a
bucket of water, sent down a quart of worms and
jammed the lid on tight. I stowed the whole
concern away in the kitchen. Things went
on dreamily in our household for about
three hours, and then the generally useless
sighted the cooking compartment tilling with
water that came from she didn’t know where. So
she started in to see about it. I don’t know what
actually happened—the girl left that day without
notice—but I guess she must have struck my ex-
periment somewhat about the middle. I got
another bucket, one with no holes in it for a
change, transferred the snake and the worms, got
a fresh supply of water, and the experiment
started again—outside. I had been shoved out.
I kept that snake in there for seven
years—no, days—and to guard against it dying of
broken heart or loneliness I dropped in numerous
live grasshoppers to keep it company. At the
end of the seventh day great things happened.
I turned the bucket over, but no drowned, bloated
snake made its appearance. Instead, a hissing
mass of something gone mad fairly woke the old
place up, and ran amok among the poultry. The
disturbance roused Bill (Bill looks after the
poultry), and he immediately shot five fowls and
the best rooster in a noble attempt to. out the
snake. The dog, who also joined in the general
all-round rejoicings, is since deceased, and the
snake is now under the verandah.
THE FREE AND EASY LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
A dairy farmer in South Gippsland states that he cannot
get competent milkers though he has offered 20s. per
week and found. He expresses wonder that such numbers
of men prefer the rush and tear of factory life, or walking
about the city streets, to the free and easy life of a good
dairy farm. —Daily paper.
It’s Ho for the free and easy life.
That the farmer man (and the farmer’s wife)
Live, out on the Gippsland track ;
And it’s Hey (three times) for the farmer’s man,
And Ho for the brimming, big cream can,
And the fat potato sack.
But the farmer’s man is fat as well;
For the free and easy life will tell
On the thinnest kind of bloke.
They rouse him up when the jackass wakes,
And off for the cows he swiftly makes,
For the free and easy folk.
Then after the last, tough cow is done,
And the separator ends its run ;
Well, the easy life goes on.
For there’s wood to chop, and spuds to hoe
(And the spuds grow thick in a long-, long row)
Till the day is half-way gone.
Then, after lunch, there are cans to scrub
(What time the farmer is at the pub);
So the free and easy life
Keeps on till the sun begins to fall,
When, “Git up the cows,” he hears the call
Of the farmer (or his wife).
So the sun goes down, and the stars come out ;
But still the farmer pokes about
And finds him jobs to do;
And the farmer’s wife declares he’s slow,
And how they,stand him she does not know ;
Till one day's work is through.
Three cheers for the free and easy life,
' Away from the city’s noise and strife,
And its riot, sin and harm.
And three cheers more for the spuds and maize,
And a final whoop for the soothings ways
Of the Gippsland dairy farm.
VICTORIA.
FRANK RAOLIFFE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications ins anciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
C.S.G. : Drinking song not too inspiring, to
put it mildly ...Leslie : “Tragic Farce” old and stodgy ;
poemlets stodgy and juvenile.;. Toa Tagane : Unplea-
sant story indifferently told Lab : Both of the pretty-
pretty spring variety... .Dick : Not up R.B.J. : Hard-
worked joke G. Bennett: Trite moralising in deplor-
able verse Te Aroha : Lament about Cow not too
musical. Besides, we have sufficient Cow poems on
band just now, and have had to give the office
Cow-ba,rd a holiday. Anyhow, the veterinary sur-
geon of the staff decided against your screed
Ashburn : Takes you a long time to tell that a visitor is cap-
tured for sheep-stealing by an intelligent policeman, who
lets the real amateur pastoralist escape....Erolb: Jaw-
breaking. Also, idea is trite Subscriber 6Z4 : Goat-
driver’s calamities leave us unmoved H.T.M.M. :
“Those eyes” closed in painless death... .E.H.O. : The
old Julia-Spook gag, with Mars substituted for Hades
ILL. : Too long—the public would get lost in the whirl
of figures.., .Lah : Story of the Cobar squatter who pur-
sued a carpet snake for 11 miles in order to capture a fowl
which the long streak had swallowed, and the description
of how the fowl tasted at dinner next day, is too lurid
for print.... Australian Horseman : Much longer than our
space will allow W.J. B. : Mclntosh verses crude and
bumpy....J. C. Auckland: S. Aus. hasn’t got a “lease”
of the N. Territory. It has jurisdiction over it under
Letters Patent, granted by (and revocable bv) the British
Government... .lota :It was another man’s.... A.V.G. :
Your proposal to “secure the union of Victoria and
N.S. W. for a; start, with a capital at Albury” doesn’t
appeal to this paper. The mere lumping together of
two States wouldn’t increase the powers of the Federa-
tion—it would merely create a bigger insect to give
more back buzz to the Federation. And the
disproportion of representation in the Senate is
bad enough as it is without making it worse
by lumping the two biggest States together....
W.E.W. : Sorry, but have.no space for domestic recipes.
On second thoughts we’re not sorry—we’re g1ad......
Z.B.W. : Too ponderous; it moves along- like a rolling
wave of elephants Paterfamilias : Judged by your first
par. you i haven’t got much hope... Yandina: Bush-
felling- discussion died of old age some time ago
L.R. (Hamilton): “ The Mournful Cabman ” fined for
furious doggerel.. ..Prodigal: (1) There is only one
“ black list” in this office, and the names therein are the
names of those who have either swindled or tried to
swindle us by stealing other people’s pk-inted matter and
offering it to us as their own. (2) Pars, are not acknow-
ledged—space won’t permit.. .Aster Nirvanse: Have
endeavored to answer your question in leading article
this week.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
C.V.R. : When a picture is simply a picture of a drunk,
he should at least be an unusual drunk. Yours is a usual
drunk—more than usually usual ...F. Laf: Not bad ;
but it’s one of those unfortunate jokes that take so much
explaining Arabi : Don’t send joke and stamps for re-
turn in one packet and drawing in another. The
chances are that they will reach different men, and two
men will swear. If you send the drawing along with the
joke, only one man will swear if it’s the kind of joke and
drawing you send this time L.B. : “ Please accept any
sketches I may send. I want money badly.” So do we.
That’s why we don’t accept the weird sketch and the
libellous “gag” you do send....F.E.T. : None of the
last batch scored Eceric : Worn-out jest... A.E.R. :
We have had that same joke in a dozen shapes since the
coal trouble commenced, and it is time it had a rest—a
good long rest Hen B. : Artistically they are a very
hopeless lot A. Sargeant: The man who complained of
the insufficient tightness of the beer is an old jest badly
illustrated A.S. : Dog’s meat picture gone to its long
kennel Win: Painfully obvious sort of thing Bert
R. : That kind of inverted German humor became obsolete
after “ Struck Oil ” was written. And a picture showing
the place where the German’s dog was before it went
away doesn’t help things much....R. C. Davies: An un-
usual style of art.
Society of Artists, Etc.
SPRING EXHIBITION.
Being unable to reach Heaven in their work, and
having an excusable fear of Hell, the Society of
Artists has located its spring exhibition as near the
one and as far from the other as possible. There-
fore, those of the general public who are desirous
of viewing the 250 samples of brush effort are
directed to travel to Queen Victoria Markets,
elevate themselves a storey or two by the lift, and
then climb skyward to the exhibiting room.
With a proper desire to cool the perspiring
climber, the committee has hung at the entrance-
way D. H. Souter’s surf-swimming pictures. The
first of them depicts a bar-lady enveloped to her
neck in foam, and the heated climber, seeing the
white, damp froth of the sea, and being reminded
of the damp, white froth of the beer at the bar-
ladv’s inn, cools off to a reasonable frame of mind.
The object of the committee in hanging the
canvases was not so much to make the most of
the exhibition as a whole as to individualise the
work of the contributors. Each painter was
therefore given a wall space, and there his trea-
sures were hung all together.
Beginning with the first, then, Souter’s surf
swimmers are fresh and bright, excepting in the
case of one mermaid who evidently had been keel-
hauled by Father Neptune until the scales came
off her tail-end. leaving raw flesh to excite
sympathy and attract sharks. Another canvas,
entitled “The Bluff,” by the same artist, might
have been entered for a missing-word competition.
Possibly Mr. Souter meant it to represent a river
running past a haystack at the foot of a hill, but,
as a matter of fact, it looks like a creek about as
big as the Cotter in the vicinity of (1) a mountain
of sulphur, (2) a dromedary with seven humps.
On the other hand, “The Life Line” is fine work
and better effect. It will probably be one of the
main eye-catchers during the exhibition.
On the left wall is Norman Lindsay, in 24
frames. More than half of his exhibits are Lone
Hand illustrations (includiug “The Mutiny on the
Lady Shore,” purchased for the National Gal-
lery). Amongst the rest are one or two old
friends—“ The Bacchanal ” being the best. That
fine piece of black-and-white work is catalogued at
155., and even a Patagonian could get from it
£l5OO worth of inspiration. It is a song of flesh-
pots to set vibrating the pagan note in Man, who.
after all. is only man. And the picture goes fcr
155., or 180 pennies. If the writer had made that
painted song he would not part with it for two
coal mines.
At the end wall J. J. Hilder’s water colors are
hung, and J. J. Hilder’s water colors are the
dominant note of the exhibition. In fact, they
are the £lOO note. To-day there is. unfortunately,
too much copying and too little originality. One
of the bad features of the Society of Artists’
exhibition is the crop of pictures of the farmhouse
and the adjacent Cow, the river and the sympa-
thetic tree, the track across the hill, and so on—
all in the most approved and monotonous method.
Nobody has depicted the farmhouse and the
farmer rooting out his weary-lidded children at
3 a.m. to bring the Cow ; nobody has pictured the
track across Respectability to the Quod. The
writer does not deny that some of the conven-
tional paintings are “well executed” —in fact,
he charges them with being that—but he does
say that many of them are of little use and no in-
spiration. Some of them, indeed, are so useless
that they are hereby sentenced to 166 years’ soli-
tary confinement. But Hilder has a different
lesson to preach. He is bound by no color scheme,
but takes Nature with an eye focussed to her
variations and her individual appeals. He doesn’t
care one depreciated copper mine what Nature
looks like in oleographs—he is concerned with
what Nature looks like to Hilder. The difficulty
is to decide which is the pick of his canvases. On
first thoughts, the writer put his hand on “ The
Plough.” On second thoughts, he selected “ The
Pool.” On third thoughts, he banked on “The
Complete Angler.” And on fourth thoughts, he
decided to draw lots.
One of the truest pieces of brush work in the
exhibition is a water-color, by Howard Ashton,
entitled, “Looking South.” It is perhaps the
most faithful representation of Australian sea-coast
scenery that has been exhibited in Sydney for
many a day, and if the writer is charged with
untruth when he declares that it is one of the
best studies in the Society’s spring collection he
will carry his case to the High Court. The other
Ashton (Julian) has the most ambitious canvas in
the exhibition —“The Everlasting Hills.” The
title is ill-chosen. From such a title
there was to be expected a grandeur
of hills, but Julian has supplied only one hill and
a half. The work is artistic and characteristically
Ashton, as was to be expected ; but as a going
concern it would require considerable advertise-
ment to entice the proposed influx of capital (250
guineas).
Honorable mention is given to Lionel Lind-
say’s etchings of the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, and a Spanish monastery; to Douglas
Fry’s real horses ; to Sid Long’s eye-delight-
ing colors in his pastoral decorations; to
one, or perhaps two, of Miss Florence Rod-
wav’s portrait studies ; to Alice Muskett’s
“Gold, Frankincense and Myrrh” (a decorative
panel that deserves well of somebody’s banking
account) ; to Miss Isobel McWannell’s water colors
of “The Creek ” and “The Path that Leads to
Home” ; to Miss Ruby Winckler’s fairy tale illus-
trations ; and to some others.
Taking the exhibition as a whole, the Society of
Artists may feel fairly well satisfied with the
fruits of the year’s work, and, as far as the writer
is concerned, it is hereby respectfully offered a
whisky and soda. It can buy its own cigar.


Mr. Murray .was of opinion that a very small
• amendment of the law would be sufficient to
prevent the holding of these entertainment?,
and he would plaoe die matter before his
colleagues, and see if they could not get some-
thing done this, session.
The tomato crop in the Bendigo district is
beginning to ripen, * but it would have been
more forward had it not been for the unseason-
able .weather of the last few days. A case of
tomatoes arrived from Echuca at the week-end,
and is reported to have realised 21s.
P
i be
kVZ
RAGE FOR RECORDS*
ENDURANCE SKATING,
i From 7 o’clock on Thursday morning until
* half-past to on Saturday evening a young man
, kept rolling round the Albert Park skating-
rink. His aim was to beat his own endurance
record of 62# hours at Geelong. W. Echard,
the yotx>g Sim referred to, is not alone in his
ambition. P. Freeman skated for hours
at Newcastle, and J. Kaye put in a monoton-
ous 62 hours at Orange, New South Wales.
' - a -LLI-fll- 1 .!.
\ flection meettnp in viewj
- See -tfcr
"flje lomxtdes
I WisK 'to Heayern we could
h&ye some trtore
Wiener |
On Saturday flight the Ballarat South-street
Society presented Mr. Richard Stead, who
judged at the last competitions, with a gold-
mounted .walking-stick, made of Australian
jnaterial, ,as a .souvenir of his visit.
THE RIGHTS OF CHILDREN. I
ADDRESS. BY MR. GROOM, M i'.
The Rights of Children formed the subject 1
of,an address delivered by Mr, Groom, M.P.,1
Minister for External Affairs, at the Central I
Mission, Wesley Church, yesterday. In Au's-1
tralia to-day, he said, they must approach the !
question of child life fiom the Christian stand-1
point. If child life suffered, then the wholetl
community suffered, _ s\
you SGG
>ody
" Don 1 ! »ri€
On Recount", 1
brexK -rfU h*|» record .
Cbiia :
1 IpoK 'ere D^«*, A
io wgps
Mte
\ (omwnJntl'y '4
\Sufftr' <?
\V* .
As'tfys S+TcK
bvS *■ S«iWe»>»r %r l»><.uUwfSJly defend
4\ns w < cC I
The Chinese Consul-General for Australasia,
Liang Hsun, is a 'passenger from Hong Kong
by the .steamer Aldenham, which arrived at
.Port Darwin on Sunday. He took tea at the
Residency, Port Darwin, in the afternoon with
Rlr. Justice Herbert.
Sh.
ry
Buttons (+o £or»sv I
•fetr Sir)*'
RECORDS AND OTHER MATTERS.


Rush at a terminus—say,
Railway Station.
The strap-hanger at the start-
calm and self-confident.
The strap-hanger at full speed.
conductor* life monotonous! Just watch me break
that old cove’s back when he takes his seat.” Which the
conductor accomplishes by pressing a button at the psycho-
logical moment. v 3
Plain and fancy strap-hanging.
Distracted Lady Passenger : “Oh,
Guard, stop the tram, my baby
has tumbled out! ”
Guard: “No fear! I’m quarter of
a minute late now; but tell
you wot I’ll do—lf you’ll wait
at the terminus I’ll pick up the ‘
kid and bring it back next
trip.”
,'s4
The tramcar with the present brake
stops with seven distinct shocks.
Something between a buckjumper’s
gait and the Day of Judgment.
Why does the average guard
always wait till his tram gets
under full speed and then climb
aboard like this? It looks ele-
gant, but not safe.
yC
Female Passenger : “ I wouldn’t mind
riding in the smoking compartment
if men wouldn’t smoke such horrid
common tobacco.”
The Brute: ‘‘And / wouldn’t mind
wimmin insisting on using the smok-
ing compartment if they didn’t use
that horrid stale cheap scent. There
ought to be a scent compartment in
ever J tram.”
General view of a new belltopper
after a tram-ride.
SNAPSHOTS OF A SYDNEY TRAM JOURNEY.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
2].
champa gne of table
Light, Crisp and Invigorating. French Natural Sparkling Table Water.
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cure Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble and
Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper appreciate good
advice, and we are glad, therefore, to be able to publish
.the following from a prominent physician.
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of kidney
trouble and other diseases, such as rheumatism, bladder
and liver troubles, which are almost invariably caused by
weak kidneys. It is said on good authority that fully
one-third of the people in Australia who have reached the
age of maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney-
trouble in some form. The most dangerous feature of
this disease is the fact that many people have it without
their knowledge, and consequently neglect it until it has
reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as backache,
must be given prompt attention, and a good reliable
treatment should be taken, until every trace of the
disease has been eliminated. Wc are glad to be able to
give our readers a prescription which we have seldom
known to fail in any case. It contains no harmful ingre-
dients, is pleasant to take, not expensive,- and can be
supplied by any good chemist. It is as follows :
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup Rhu-
barb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound, one ounce ;
Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at bedtime.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we know
it will help our afflicted readers who give it a fair trial.
If taken continuously for a few weeks, it will be found to
be an almost absolutely certain cure for rheumatism,
kidney and bladder trouble, backache and all allied
complaints.
Note. —Other papers are privileged to copy the above.*
♦ ;
This year has been an eventful one in the
fields of discovery. But have you discovered
anything? It not, buy a current Lone Hand
and you will discover that it is a new Lone
Hand compared with past issues. And you will
discover that this - all Australian magazine
exceeds in interest to Australians —because it is
built solely to interest Australians —any of the
imported periodicals.*
The A.M.P. Society announces that the next
division of cash surplus will be made at the close of the
year, when all participating policies issued in the ordinary
department before December 31 will receive a bonus. For
the year 1908 no less than £740,385 was thus distributed
among members, representing 36'4 per cent, of the
total premiums received by the Society during the year.
This result must be regarded as satisfactory, and is bound
to attract those who are not fully covered as well as those
who haven’t yet taken out a policy ; and the sooner they
do it the better. The Society will issue policies for any
sum up to £10,000.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Two were made one at Ballarat last week,
when Robert Chirnside’s widow became the second
Mrs. Justice Hodges. The bride is exceedingly
landed, and owns a fair slab of the Western Dis-
trict ; while the groom has a r< munerative timber
property on the Supreme Court bench. The
hitching up of the gilty pair w'as a quiet business,
and the Voice that breathed o’er Hodges had
almost to apologise for its respiration.
JOSEPH GIVE AND ALFRED TAKE.
When the Fusion Government was formed, although
Mr. Deakin had a smaller direct following, than Mr. Cook,
he was allotted the post of lender. Rut as the basis of
any such union should be give and take, it was scarc.elv
understood that the Deakin policy was to be substituted
everywhere for the Cook policy.
JOE COOK: “ Listen, Halfred; when we formed
this here partnership, didn't you promise all
along it was to he a give-and-take affair ?”
ALFRED DEAKIN: “ Suttinly, Joseph; an’ so it
has been. Why, hain’t I taken everything
you give me?”
McCaughey—the vast N.S.W. squatter
whose name travels under false pretences, being by
rights MeKakky—is said to be doing an exten-
sive grab in Westralia. Ashton, M.L.C., was
over in that State the other day; and where
Ashton is, there nowadays some business is
mostly being done for MeKakky.
Peter Russell, who left Australia in dis-
gust, tormented bj r the crude labor troubles of his
day, was never able to shake off allegiance to the
old place and people where he made his rise. So
he passed large and numerous gifts over to Sydney
University. Now, by way of recognition, a
replica of the monument which was built over his
remains in England is to be set up in front of the
Um. Peter was a good-hearted smithy man, who
made one mistake; finding he could hammer an
iron bar into the shape he desired, he thought to
hammer the unionism of the time in similar
fashion. And when lie found he couldn’t he
dropped his hammer and cleared to England.
Died at Leichhardt (Sydney) on Thursday,
Edward Thomas Woodley, late of Miller’s Point,
in his 7Gth year. The Woodleys and the Pash leys
and the Glovers were old families on the Rocks
and at Miller’s Point when Sydney was cutting
its second tooth. The original Woodley was one
of the first corpses at St. Thomas’ Cemetery,
North Shore (1845) ; and the Pashlevs and the
Glovers were removed from the old” Sandhills
cemetery to St. Thomas’ at the time of the great
upheaval. The last home of the Woodleys in
Cumberland-street, said to be the oldest house on
the Rocks and dating back previous to Bligh’s
time, has been commemorated in oils bv
Collingridge,
Died at Melbourne the other day, Arthur
Lees Mills, lecturer on metallurgy at Mel-
bourne University—a good chemist and a white
man. After being a student of Cosmo Newberry’s
he became chief chemist at Dry Creek smelters
(S.A.). Later he was chief chemist and assistant
metallurgist under Robert Stieht at Mt. Lyell
Next he was metallurgist at Mt. Garnet until zinc
came in and left him nothing to smelt. He had
held his University appointment for seven years.
By the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Mr. E. D. Nicolle, who died in the Iliawarra district of
N.S.W. on Nov. 24, was often credited with being the first
ice-maker—the first human one, that is, for the Almighty
was on the job early. But in the verv earlv ’sixties a
Geelong (Vic.) newspaper man named Harrison produced
artificial ice. He was the pioneer. He established works
in Franklyn-street, Melbourne, between Elizabeth-street
and the old cemetery. I saw the first ice turned out. It
was in bars—not in blocks, as now. Harrison represented
Geelong in the Legislative Assembly for a time, but he
was a frost.
W. T. Goodge, whose name has been afc
the bottom of fathoms of verse in Thk Buleetix
and other papers, died at North Sydney last week
after a short illness. Goodge’s Muse never flew
very high ; but as an ingenious versifier on topical
subjects he had few, if any, rivals in Australia.
He was a rhyming dictionary on two energetic
legs ; if Goodge couldn’t find a word to jingle with
another, then it could be safely said that the other
word hadn’t a rhyming mate in all the world. He
did much country press work and published one
volume of his verses— “ Hits, Skits and Jingles.”
N.S.W. Premier Wade’s illness in the
midst of the coal strike recalls Parkes’ accident
during the great maritime strike 19 years ago.
Flung out of a cab, he had his leg broken ; where-
upon McMillan and Bruce Smith took charge,
while the old man fumed at his home in Balmain,
and opened his heart and his mouth to the re-
porters. After nearly 20 years it looks as if no
leg-breakage in Australia ever had bigger conse-
quences; for the wild things that happened after
McMillan and Smith jumped at their chance and
took command did more to wallop ;up a big Labor
party than all the campaigning of Labor ad vocates.
Up in the Maranoa country (Q.) they
firmly believe the local yarn that the Hon. James
Ashton—the man who dropped out of N.S.W.
politics—is to take charge, for a time anyway, of
his friend McCaughey’s new venture. Bonus
Downs station. Bonus Downs pretty well broke
its former owner, R. S. Statham, even though he
put into it most of the £12,000 he landed in a
Tattersall sweep. McCaughey later on picked it
up, and has poured out money on it to provide
water ; but the outlook isn’t even now too cheer-
ful. Still, the house that is being built for head-
quarters is the talk of the Maranoa, which argues
that a thing of that magnificence can’t be intended
for any ordinary station-manager person.
Webster, M.H.R., is often a long-winded
man, but one of his recent speeches was cornmend-
ably brief. He simply said, “I move that the
lion, member be no longer heard.” The motion
was defeated, but wrath threw Minister Cook so
much off his base that he closed his immense
speech on Defence with a bang, and the division
was taken right there. Webster only yearned to
muzzle Cook, but when the frenzied Cook moved
that the whole debate be ended he muzzled every- :
body. The result was that Webster was again
commendably brief. He didn’t get a chance to
say anything, and that was the shortest remark
Webster ever made.
Samuel Mauger has been Judding again.
Last l ime he .Tudded he was Postmaster-General,
and the Maitland (N.S.W.) miners showed so
much fight that he retreated after they had filled
his mouth with mud, as the Persians put it. This
time he told tales of drunken cadets and naval-
brigade boys at the recent Military Tattoo at Mel-
bourne Exhibition ; but he went too much into
detail, as usual. The responsible parties of the
Tattoo answered Mauger’s yarn about boys being
seen waving bottles of beer at midnight by the
simple statement that there had not been any
bottled beer in the Exhibition. Then the com-
mittee of the Tattoo unanimously passed a resolu-
tion to the effect that there was no truth in the
statements, and that Mauger was a Judder of- an
aggravated type.
Died, at White Heath, Iliawarra Lakes
(N.S.W.), on November 21, Eugene Dominique
Nicolle. This was the scientist with whom
Thomas Sutcliffe Mort was associated in establish-
ing ice-works in Sydney. But they did bigger work
than that—they solved the problem of how to trans-
port fresh Australian beef and mutton to Europe.
Nicolie’s first aim was to invent a cheap means of
producing artificial cold. He did it by the use
of ammonia. He demonstrated that meat could
be thoroughly frozen and kept longer after being
thawed than meat partially frozen. Mort put
£BO,OOO into the business, but it was held up
for a while bv the failure of the metal to
withstand the action of the chemical. Later
on, however, after Mort’s death, Nicolle’s triumph
became complete, and now that he is dead Aus-
tralia owes him a monument. Mort,..who pre-
deceased the scientist just 40 years, has one facing
the’Lands Office in Sydney.
Whether affected by the coal-strike
microbe, the delay in starting the paper-train to
Yassberra, or some other cause, Sydney Tele-
gkaph seems bent on provoking a breach of the
peace and rupturing the Constitution. For in-
stance, in a recent issue appeared the following
pen-picture of its protege, Jokook :
Moreover, his somewhat irritating manner—produced
chiefly by his lack of a sense of humor and an exact
appreciation of some of the foibles of human nature—has
marked him out for some time by Labor men as a fit
object on which to wreak summary and humiliating ven-
geance. On the part of Mr. Cook, it has to be admitted
that he has shown a pretty minute acquaintance
with the use and the potentialities of the Standing
Orders. If he has seen a chaiice of getting at the Opposi-
tion, he has not hesitated to do so. His constant and
acidulated interjections in debate, his taunts, his sharp
outbursts of fiery indignation, his uncontrollable impulse
to say nasty things and indulge in vicious criticisms of
his main opponents, have not secured him a circle of con-
secrated ground," if the opportunity should come to pay
him back in something more than his own coin.
TENNIS IN SYDNEY: THE DAVIS CUP.—AM ERICANS AT PRACTICE.
R. D. Meagher, solicitor, of Sydney, has
no luck. He was off the roll for about 14 years,
by reason of the Dean case, in which he was too
enthusiastic, though there was little money
in it to reward his enthusiasm. Several times he
applied for reinstatement and was refused with
Costs. At long last he was reinstated, but even
then he only got back with Costs. He had just
plunged into the legal arena again when the Law
Institute appealed to the High Court, and last
week that tribunal reversed the decision of the
State Judges and wiped him out afresh, and
there were more Costs. God invented Justice,
and man invented Law, and the Devil invented
Costs.
Concerning a departed cattle king :
Died, on Saturday, at Karalee, near Bathurst, John
Lee, aged 84. He was the second of the six sons
of pioneer shorthorn Durham cattle-breeder, Wil-
liam Lee. The other sons were George (M.L.C.),
Thomas, James, William, Henry and Edward (Grown
Prosecutor). John followed the ideas of his father, arid
completed what is recarded to-day as the most valuable
shorthorn herd in the world. He was born and died
on the 1000-acres estate, granted to his father by Gover-
nor Macquarie. Claremont practically supplied the
foundation for the shorthorn herds of Australia. The
father of William Lee, the foupder of the N.S.W. family,
came out with the First Fleet in some minor official
capacity. He was transferred to Norfolk Island,
where he died, in 1794, leaving a widow and two
children. William and Maria. The widow brought
the children to Sydney and placed them in the
care of the Rev. Richard Johnson, the chaplain
of the First Fleet. She re-married, returned to England,
and never saw her family again. Maria lived to the age
of 99, and William founded a pastoral dynasty and lived
to the age of_76. Captain Cox, the father of Mudiree,
took William in hand and made a man of him. Governor
Macquarie, besides granting him 1000 acres at Kelso, near
Bathurst, allotted him a. few head of cattle and horses ;
and from that small thing great things grew.
THOS BROWN, M.H.R. of Calare (N.S.W.).
Tom Mann says that he is “a Socialist
soldier,” and that he cannot shed tears. So it
wus water in the beer after all. The honest souls,
who maintained in the face of terrific odds that
the moisture was due to Mann absent-mindedly
crying over the wrongs of the workers whilst
engaged in his public-house duties, will now fold
up their gamps and steal silently away like the
Arabs when the rent is hopelessly in arrears.
Correction and Apology.
Among the “Personal Items” of Thk Bulletin
of 18/11/'O9 appeared the following paragraph :
“ Boswell” writes :
So W. A. Holman (N.S.W.)has again hurled his toma-
hawk viciously in the direction of his Labor friends in the
Australian Parliament. This writer had occasion to>
allude to Holman’s conduct (B. 31/12/’08) in hunting with
the Labor hares and running with the brief-giving hounds,
who control the N.S.W. Law Department. Since then
many Crown briefs have wandered in W.A.’s direction,
notwithstanding that Wade had publicly proclaimed in
the matter of B. R. Wise that no hostile politician
need apply. The quarantining of Wise and the
subsidising of Holman may therefore s be confi-
dently set down as straws which show which
way the wind blows. Still, when a deputy-leader of
Labor goes out of bis way to publicly fling his States
Fright tomahawk at his Federal confreres , to the accom-
paniment of an approving grin from Wade, no straw is
necessary to mark the trend of events. The facts shriek
for themselves. No more pitiful sight can meet the eye
of an earnest Democrat than that of a brainy man kept
in Parliament by Labor votes, and yet voting cheek-by-
jowl on really great questions with a buzzing insect, the
elect of Toryism. Instead of being a fighter for the
workers, Holman has chosen to be a fighter for the Tory
Premier ; wherefore, oidy a few days previous to this
latest outburst of littleness, Senator Givens remarked
that the Federal Labor party didn’t take much notice of
Holman’s opinion on anything. Under those circum-
stances, and in order to preserve the homogeneity of
Labor-in-politics, it is about up to the party in N.S.W. to
get a new Deputy-leader.
The Bulletin now finds that the statement
that Mr. Holman has taken briefs from the New
South Wales Crown Law Department is abso-
lutely without foundation, and greatly regrets the
publication of the paragraph. It takes this
opportunity to unreservedly apologise for any
injury done him.
The facts are : The Bulletin has ascertained
that Mr. Holman has recently appeared in some
cases instructed by the Federal Crown Solicitor—
not the Crown Solicitor of New South Wales.
His leaning to the State side in recent contro-
versies is therefore an independent attitude
adopted in spite of the influence of such profes-
sional patronage as he has received. Under the
circumstances The Bulletin can only repeat its
regret for the appearance of the statement in its
columns.
The Oldest Inhabitant :
, The death of John Lee, of Bathurst, recalls a curious
incident in the life of his father, William Lee. He had
crossed the mountains in the teens of last century, had
settled first at Capertee, and then at Kelso, and finally
had pushed out on to the Bogan. But Governor Gipps
wouldn’t hear of it. The Bogan was the “ wild blacks’
country ” ; and, besides, if settlement was rushed out so
far with such speed, Gipps saw that the cost of govern-
ment would be increased enormously. He wanted the
nearer country properly used first—in which respect
Gipps showed a lot of wisdom—whereupon Lee was
imperatively recalled. The patriarch did as he was told,
and came back to Claremont, where he thrived and died.
LIMELIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
The president of the Protestant Defence Association,
Mr. Henry Varley, took the chair.
Mr. Wood-Green moved “ That in the light of the
vigorous campaigns for the exposure of Romanism, and
the defence of Protestantism, now' being carried on in
Engl ind, this meeting urges our fellow-citizens to wake
up and join the Protestant organisations of the State, in
order that a vigorous and combined executive may carry
on a similar campaign in the Commonwealth.”
There’s no “ campaign ” in England,
No civil war at Rome,
Nor fear of Papist murders,
Nor prelacies at “ home.”
But Varley loves South Yarra
(Which does it little good),
And Wood-Green lusts for voters
Who live in Collingwood.
And Rome and Cork and D?rry
Are less to them, in truth,
Than ads. in Melbourne papers,
Or at the polling booth.
Election times come swiftly ;
Betimes they start their parley—
The wild sectarian Wood-Green,
The raucous Henry Varley.
VICTORIA.
MARTIN LUTHER.


BY MOTOR TO AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST POINT.
NOW is the ideal time for a summer tour to Kosciusko. The motor-road to
the summit has been cleared of snow, and the tourist glides over its smooth
surface, surrounded by immense fields of glistening snow. No more enjoy*
able experience could be imagined than the climb of 7300 ft. through the
wild scenery and pure bracing atmosphere of the Kosciusko Range, to the summit
of Australia’s highest mountain, from-'which the view is unsurpassed in the world.
The trip has been made easy, comfortable, and comparatively cheap. By the aid
of a service of speedy motor-cars from the rail-head at Cooma, Kosciusko lifts
been brought within 10 hours of Sydney.
The Creel at Thredbo, 40 miles from Cooma, is the famous fishing-box at the
foothills of Mt. Kosciusko, A rippling trout stream at the door, and miles of
magnificent mountain waters running through Grown lands, are available to guests
at this Government Tourist House. Within ajfew minutes’ walk of it, two of the
world’s best trouting streams —the Snowy and the Thredbo—meet, and not far
away the Eucumbene, another magnificent stream, joins the Snowy. For the trout
fisherman the Creel’s situation is ideal.
Ten miles above the Creel, at an altitude of 6000 ft., the palatial Hotel
Kosciusko, a well-appointed up-to-date establishment, offers to visitors the comforts
and conveniences of a first-class city hotel. Driving and riding trips are made from
the Hotel to the summit of the mountain across the snowfields ; over a road which
is easily negotiable by motors. The journey round the top of the Kosciusko ridge
is full of interest, the sights across the veritable sea of tumbling mountain ranges
varying from each successive outlook, the road circling round the margins of the
Alpine Lakes—Cootapatatnba, Albina, HarnetJ; and the Blue Lake.
The Government Tourist Bureau, Ghallis House, Sydney, will answer any
inquiries regarding the routes, accommodation and cost of this delightful tour.
,
m
m.
■
V
Isr.
/
p*
Mi
V'
~v\ f
Ik
H
&
&
«
<*/
sp!
■ .
m
jf.
r*m-
m
spr
<»
/'/ K
■nSM
w
i
: >W
r
V ;***'■>
m
«SS
S»S
s@3
■
KOSCIUSKO S RUGGED PEAKS: THE OLDEST LAND ON THE GLOBE.
1. Shelter Shed at Mt. Twynam, above the Blue Lake.
2. A river in the making, near Kosciusko’s summit.
3. The Thredbo, near the Creel.^
4. Rennix’s Gap and Valley, from the Hotel Kosciusko.
5. The Blue Lake, Kosciusko.


Piles Cured.
“I suffered from outward piles for some time, but
your Laxo-Tonic Pills have cured me. They gave
me a good appetite and made a new man of me,”
writes W. H. Waller, Cobar, N.S. W. Laxo-
Tonic Pills are the best possible remedy for piles,
10£d. and Is. 6d.*
Walter Bradley & Co.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining Boom Suites, with
latest.padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
A CURE FOR ECZEMA.
Of all the diseases of the skin and scalp which torture
and disfigure mankind, three-fourths are eczematous.
Millions are born with eczema, and it is the only thing
other millions have left when they die. Neglect in
infancy and childhood, irritating conditions affecting the
skin, ignorance of its real nature, improper remedies and
many other causes that might he mentioned have created
a chronic eczema which, with varying severity, has
afflicted countless numbers during their entire lives
Eczema is purely a skin disease. It is not hereditary nor
contagious, and is impartially distributed among the rich
and poor, the high and low. The agonising itching and
burning of the skin is the most distressing symptom, and is
caused by the bursting of little vesicles' filled with an
acrid fluid which burns as with fire the denuded skin.
New vesicles form, fill and burst, scales form upon scales
and crusts upon crusts until disfigurement is added to
torture.
The most successful cure for eczema, whether applied
to the youngest infant or the oldest person, is Outicura,
the great skin cure. For more than thirty years it has
retained its reputation as the purest, sweetest and most
efficient of curatives. That those who have suffered lon«-
and hopelessly and who have lost faith in everything mav
make trial of Cuticura without charge, Messrs. R Towns
& Co, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney, N.S.W., will send a
generous trial package to any_ address, post free, together
with a 32-page pamphlet, giving accurate description
and treatment of every form of eczema, as well as other
affections of the shin, scalp, hair and hands.*
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price— 3/6.
Please note —Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
wifh metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDQWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
It is important to have your bowels move
regularly—when they do not take Chamberlain’s
Tablets.*
ECZEMA AND
SKIN ERUPTIONS.
*
Trouble Will Stay Until
the Blood is Purified.
4
This Man on Fire With Torturing
Eczema Cured Himself Through
His Blood,
Eczema and rashes on the skin are a sign that
Nature is trying to drive out some impurities from
the system. Eczema is often a symptom in
stomach trouble, rheumatism, gout or a low state of
health. A soothing lotion may help to allay the
burning, itching sensation—it won’t cure. Greasv
ointments* only clog the pores and make matters
worse.
There cannot be a real cure until the blood is
built up and purified. It is a fact that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have cured a great many
very severe cases of eczema, as well'as simpler
forms of skin rashes. They have cured these
troubles because they actually make new blood and
tone the whole system, expelling the impurities
through the natural channels. This Melbourne
than says that he was literally on fire with
eczema until Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured him.
“I took a cold bath when overheated and I had
a bad attack of burning eczema,” said Mr. Robert
Davies, 43 Rathmine Street, Northcote, Mel-
bourne, Vic. “My poor body was quite raw. I
could not bear anyone to come near me. I was
under the doctor for twelve months, and he
couldn’t cure me. My skin used to burn and
itch something frightful. I was on fire with it.
No one knows how I suffered, only my wife and
myself. I spent pounds and pounds in medicine,
and none of them did me much good. The trouble
used to appear on the thighs, and on the calves,
and most particularly about the ankles. My
clothes irritated the parts dreadfully. It was
impossible to keep from scratching ; my skin used
to scale and come off like scurf. I was suffering
like this for about a year when I read that Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills would cure my complaint,
and so I bought some and took them as directed.
After awhile the irritation began to decrease, the
skin got less scurfy, and more healthy looking. I
felt better than ever I did. To-day lam perfectly
cured, and my skin is as clear as it was when I
was born. I can eat and work; in fact, lam a new
man. If you saw me years ago you would never
know I was the same man. All my neighbors
said I would never get better, but you see I did ;
and it was nothing else but Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills that cured me.”
It is well to remember that it was Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, and not an imitation, that cured Mr.
Davies. Getting the genuine is the important
thing in a cure. They are sold by most chemists
and storekeepers, or will be sent direct by The
Dr, Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australia Ltd.,
Sydney, on receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per box, six
boxes 15s. 3d. #
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
"Ntk
K
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bali Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(ovp. Il'inhr SI.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A coroner’s jury at Hergott, in the far
north of IS.A., where the truculent Abdul Bhang
and his camels run most of the show, has just
made a good suggestion. In vestigating a fatality
which looks remarkably like murder, it added a
rider, “ that no alien should be allowed to carry
firearms in this State.” Which motion The
Bulletin seconds, provided the proposer will
make it “ Commonwealth ” instead of '‘State.”
The Old Soldier writes :
The cable reports that the British War Office is inviting
designs and patterns for a new automatic rifle to take the
place of the short Lee-Enfield, which has provided food
for laughter for all the armies of Europe. What about
the promises made by successive Federal Governments
“ to standardise ” their naval and military forces, and
use no arms or equipments that are not of British
patterns ? It has already been given effect to, so fur that
the machinery of the new arms factory is to be fitted to
make only Lee-Enfield rifles, which may now, if the cable
is not quite an unusual liar, be regarded as obsolete.
Therefore, as soon as the new machinery arrives, Colonel
Joe Cook will be called upon to throw part of it on the
scrap-heap, and order something else to take its place]
Australia is up against its first Imperial difficulty, and, if
it is wise, it will do well to adopt a rifle of its very own,
and make it and its ammunition at home.
The nationalisation of N.S.W. coal mines
would be only a return to the original order of
things. The Coal River field, later the Hunter,
was worked by the Government in 1804 for the
benefit of the community. The staff of workers
consisted of 34 convicts, whose hours of labor
were from sunrise to sunset. Governor King in-
sisted that coal was public property, and he
quashed the claims which private individuals
now and again set up to private coal-ownership.
He even forbade export. It was he who gave the
port the name of Newcastle. In those early days
it was considered monstrous to sanction the pri-
vate possession of such a common necessary as a
coal area. But nevertheless, some 20 years later,
the Australian Agricultural Co. came along from
England and monopolised the lot.
“B.”: Be business paper of N.S.W.
Assembly. Carmichael, M.L. A., has a motion
thereon to appoint a Select Committee to report
as to whether the report of a previous Committee
which sat on the case of a mounted policeman was
founded on fact. And the said previous select
committee mused on the harassed equestrian in
the year 1890. It seems a long time ago, and
just how old the trouble was then I can’t find out.
“ Yar ” writes:—
Talking about the strike to a miner at Wollongong, he
said it was time the owners got a lesson ; and that all the
talk about the Illawarra miners being reluctant to come out
was tommyrot. “ Why,” said he, “some little time ago
an owner, talking to a brother Fat, said : ‘ I can’t imagine
what these men have to complain about, judging by the
way in which they live. I was passing some of their
dwellings the other day, and I noticed jam tins strewn
about in all directions; and, you know, men who can give
their children luxuries are not too badly off. Then
agam,’he added, ‘ I’ve been told, on good authority, that
on a Sunday a little while ago a miner’s family had a
whole leg of mutton for dinner !’ ” There is real pleasure
in going on strike against men like that.
No wonder the patent-medicine proprietors
made urgent representations” when awhile
back the Commonwealth Parliament threatened
to insist on their publishing the ingredients of
their concoctions. The experts who administer
the Commerce Act lately informed the Customs
Comptroller that the insrredients in a box of a
proprietary medicine, sold at 2s. 6d., cost just
one-fortieth of a penny. A retail price 1200 times
greater than manufacturing cost should permit of
a fairish dividend.
Premier John Weary, of Victoria, who
hasn t been half so weary of late, has shoved
through the Assembly a Progressive Land-Tax
oill which starts at in the £ and ambles by
degrees up to 2fd. The figure isn't nearly enough,
yet it is a lot better than anything the State has
f. ad y?**- What chance the measure will have in
the House of Unpatriotic Landlords is another
question; for there is no other House on earth
which is more cheerfully willing to send the whole
country to the dogs in order to save itself 2d.
I hat is why The Bulletin believes in the Recon-
struction policy. That policy means the obliter-
ation of all State Upper Houses in one act. and a
starting of things afresh without the old trammels.
The Old Soldier writes :
Joe Cook is said to have made up his mind what he is
going to show Kitchener when the long man comes. He
is going to arrange the biggest training camp he can
uS" 1 e v a . ch State, and Joseph is really sanguine that
ne will be able to show the visitor something worth look-
ing at in the way of “the biggest military camps that
have been seen in Australia.” That may Very well be.
tor Australia has never been remarkable for the number
it can collect into its camps-3000 possible fighting men
ems to represent about the high-water mark for one State.
oLTi, • h u! ler Is S'ven to asking awkward questions,
and he might say something like this : “ It’s very pretty
Mister Cook, especially the little boys, and they all march
past beautifully, but how far could they march in a dav
it it were necessary? How many days could they keep it
up, and how many would be likely to fall out each day?”
Neither Joe nor any of his General Staff could answer'one
ot those questions, because they have never tried the
ettect of a few days’ route marching. Here is another
question that will certainly be asked, and as certainly
will not be answered : “ How soon, after the order calling
flonn - t Would 1C P ossible Put in the field a brigade of
6000 infantry, with 24 guns fully manned and horsed?”
And another: “If an enemy 10,000 strong, with 40 field
and siege guns, landed within 30 miles of Sydney (or Mel-
Dourne), what arrangements have been made to prevent
the city being surprised and shelled into submission ?*»
work S J ° e WOuld ffet over ifc by telling Kitchener to get
AN INSPIRATION.
The Minister for Defence proposes to name the three
destroyers.... after Australian rivers. As the vessels
belong to what is known as the River class, Mr. Cook
thinks it appropriate that the names of Australian rivers
should be applied to them Paper.
JOKOOK: “ Ha ! A brilliant idea! No one will
suspect. Cook's River! Ha-ha!!"
Tliorooa om «Gl,<.ni,™;ki ..
u ’ b i• a hornble understanding
T . *e coal-mine owners and the slopping
If Maori land, too—all for'the good of the
’ ( course - Ihe Northern S.S. Co. has had
bu J, lt; . ha * always managed to
afcest ot them seems to
• ° ■ c r f Anyway, a small steamer
ijj.,i„ uek ‘ al \ d to Whangarei a
f u. f f ° , an £ lts atest ad vt. is to the effect
> * an 4 obba,n a s "PP'y °f 9bal, it must
suspend its time-table-and that was before there
was any trouble in the coal trade, too.
A surprisingly true item from the S. M.
Herald's “On the Land ” column last week :
With the extension of our railway system, is not only
concerned the absolute necessity for the immediate dup-
lication of present main lines, and better facilities at the
terminal as well as crosscountry connections, but also
the necessity for connecting the railways with more sea-
ports and making a better use of at present neglected
natural facilities along our coastline. Much of the trouble
in our traffic problem, with its consequent loss to the
man on the land, arises from the policy that concen-
trates the whole of our railway transport into the
metropolis.
NURSERY RHYME TO A DEAKICOOR.
Screech away, Joey, on the tree-top!
When the wind blows you just feel the rock;
But when the storm bursts with a shriek and a
bound
Birds without plumage must come to the ground!
Malvern (Vic.) suburban council has lately
given a Yarra-bank firm the go-by in favor of an
imported road roller, the tender price for which
was"£79o, as against the Australian firm’s £795,
The quality wasn’t in doubt either, for Colling-
wood, Essendon, Williamstown and Moorabbir*
are already using the local firm’s goods. Appa-
rently it is just a case of Bumble selling hiss
patriotism for a fiver. He keeps the fiver cer-
tainly, but he sends away £790, whereas, if he had
given the order to the firm which does the work
in the neighborhood he might have kept the
whole £795. So to save £5 he loses £790. And
he doubtless calls that “ business.”
The first Federal loan (£3,750,000) is in
sight. Rather than levy a Federal progressive
land-tax for the breaking up of the big estatesanrl
the settlement of the country, the Fused crowd
proposes to build the beginnings of the Australian
navy out of borrowed money. The ironclad flag-
ship will be the Cadge, and it will go proudly to
sea followed by the cruisers Three-Ball, Pawn-
broker and IO U. Canada, by the way, intends
to build its ships in its own land, by its own
people, and with its own materials. The Fused
Arrangement, having no confidence in its own
land or people or material, is going to import its
ships. Yet in Sydney alone there are two docks
which, if they got the chance, would build ships
in competition with any country on earth. Ap-
parently Joe Cook, though N.S.W. is his own
State, regards it as a poor, rotten sort of place
which can’t do anj'thing.
Joe Cook, these times, is leaping up and
down in Melbourne in a state of extreme agita-
tion, and remarking between jumps that some-
thing will have to be done so as to enable
Kitchener to have a look at the Senior Cadets,
“with a view of determining for himself any
latent or actual value they may possess for war
purpbses.” Cook of late seems to have lost faith
in the half-grown infant as food for cordite.
Awhile ago nothing was too young or tender to be
pushed to the forefront of the battle. The Curate
of Defence now seems to have transferred all the
faith that is in him to Kitchener’s eye—the pro-
phetic optic that can peer into the future of each
separate infant and detect “latent value” in its
inmost innards. Perhaps Cook feels that he can-
not parade the shambling infants before the mad-
dened Field-Marshal as real “troops,” so he is
merely going to introduce them as possible
material. And if Kitchener d ns them, the
Bishop of Defqpce will also d—-—n them in a
faint, respectful way and shoo them off home to
play in the backyard.
’OME!
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Interesting information relative to the scheme for the
establishment of an Australian military college is con-
tained in papers presented to Parliament by the Prime
Minister. . . . From the summary given, it appears that
the college, or “school of military instruction,” as it is
officially called, is to be supervised by the chief of the
Commonwealth Imperial General Staff, and the instruc-
tional staff is to include a commandant and two instruc-
tors, obtained from Home. — Daily paper.
*Ome ! ’OmoT! ’Ome ! !!—from the land beyond the foam
Let us haul '.lie sacred persons who are reservoirs of skill;
Pant, pant., pant for the British commandant
Who will decorate the College with the proper kind of
frill!
Yell, yell, yell!—ring the fool Australian’s knell,
Let him grovel unto England and be ’umble all his days ;
Quick, quick, quick ! —bring the persons very slick
Who will teach us how to struggle with the art of wearing
stays!
’Tis a very urgent need,
And we’re certainly agreed
That it’s absolutely hopeless in Australia to explore
For a military Bloke
Who could navigate a moke,
And instruct the blessed people in the rudiments of War.
’Ome ! ’Ome !! ’Ome !!!—where they grind the dismal
pome—
That exhorts the Thoughtless Beggar to remember how
to die ;
Hip ! Hip ! Hip ! for the blessed land of Kip.,
Where they scorn the common soldier that they send to
“Tible Biy.”
Scoff, scoff, scoff at the ornamental toff—
Poor Percy can’t associate with common folks in Trade ;
Jeer, jeer, jeer—it’s the Man that matters here,
And Australia isn’t yearning for an avalanche of braid !
It’s the man who’s swift to shoot
When the trumpet starts to toot—
That’s the plain and earnest party that this Land is
pantmg for ;
We’re a plain and earnest folk,
And we think the local bloke
Will be able to instruct us in the art of blanky war.
’Ome! ’Ome !! ’Ome ! !!—when your pants have lost
their dome,
When your boots are superstjtions that you certainly
suspect;
Then, then, then, if you’re solid fighting men,
You will say “ It's for Australia.! ” and your heads will
be erect!
If, if, if you’re imported, you will sniff—
You will webp for ’Ome and mother, which are far across
the sea;
Yes, yes, yes —when your troops are in a mess.
You will murmur very sadly at the foeman’s perfidee I
But the plain Australian bloke
With his rifle and his moke
Hopes to shoiv the blessed foeman points he never saw
before ;
He may lack Ihe British frill,
But ive'll back our cobber Bill
To convince the 'wild invader he can play the game of
war !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HENVEY.
COAL.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
It is estimated that certain members of the coal vend,
who got early notice that a strike would take place,
bought 20,000 tons of coal, at an average cost of 10s. per
ton. Most of it has since been sold at 40s. per ton, audit
is believed that all of it will average that price. Thus
the knowledge was to them worth £30,000. Melbourne
Age ($5/111’ 09)
God bless my soul !
Do they want coal ?
I’ve got some coal at forty bob,
And they can have it if they like.
Mind you ! they must not say I rob
Them just because of this d—d strike !
For I must make my profit, and
I’ve got to have the cash to fight
These curshd men. They understand,
I think, the poor coal-owners’ plight.
Just tell them they can have the coal
(There’s twenty thousand tons). Let’s say—
Well, forty bob? God bless my soul,
Am I to give the stuff away ?
Surely you don’t expect to buy
Your coal at normal prices now ?
Suppose they’d worked those two mines? Why,
They would have made you pay them ! How
The deuce would it have fared with those
Infernal robbers ? Talk of trade !
There's little joy in coal. Suppose
You owned a mine and only made
A blooming loss ! What’s that you say ?
Those dividends of Ten per cent.!
Well, d-—n it, some coal-mines must pay,
Or else we could not pay our rent!
You don’t know what these miners are —
They’re never satisfied. I speak
From long experience and— Bah !
You’ve read that fifteen boh a iveek
Is all they earn sometimes 1 Well, well!
I must admit I’ve heard that too.
But don’t those fellows just play Hell
When times are bad ! Now, Sir, do you
Imagine for one moment that
I like this sort of thing ? This strike
Was started by the men ! My hat
I’ll eat if it's not true ! The dyke
Would just be crammed with trucks to-day
If they were law-abiding. WHAT !!
We started it! ! Oh ! get away !
My friend, you’re talking utter rot!
Read what! Oh ! d n the morning rag !
Well, then, if we did leave the Board,
Ypu kpow these miners love to drag
The cases out. We can’t afford
To waste our time. So we pulled out.
You think the owners are to blame
For doing that ? You have no doubt
About it? Why, you’ve got the same
Ridiculous ideas that
A friend of mine has. He explains
That Johnson (recollect he sat
Upon the tram men?) should run trains
Tq'pdrry anything ! Wade’s quaint
Apd whimsical conceit is so
Absurdly like (Ha, ha !) restraint
Of trade that I must laugh. You know
It’s jolly fine to score like that
Of course it’s dangerous. Great Scott!
I tell you I threw up my hat
When Gregory got in that shot !
“The Public !" that’s the word for us !
•‘The Public ! ” how that war-cry grips !
Oh, yes ; we’re most solicitous !
The Public see the idle ships
Ami read the morning papers. Well?
They're not our enemies. I guess
The things the morning papers tell
Are not fixed up to kill—unless
Something slips in through some mischance.
But here, I say, I’ll have to wend
My weary way. When next you glance
Along the news, watch if the Vend
Has' knuckled down. Lord bless my soul!
I quite forgot !
Who wants a lot —
Who wants to buy a lot of coal ?
N.S.W.
THE RESLIGIOUDTOR.


(Xeg* Brand)
>Send Pok.
Patterns.
C©@l S(
C®M®rkMc
Obtainable
Only from
ta
L>*
MELB9QIPE/ S.B.
EDUCATION
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS -
Stott’s Correspondence C?H3i
Can Train You —By Post.
ihiteiljMtißMlliMlHfltiUßiHf
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam.,
etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested.* “ THOROUGHNESS ” is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
172 QUEEN SIREET, BRISBANE, Q.
BrooKman’s Chambers, GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your sKin and
complexion. If, on tbe other Hand
—that is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on the sKin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe sßin’s Health and beauty. There
can He no question about that.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
1
ARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Why Pay More ?
Mode! N° 7
y
-Ss-
s
r-BMS
SOP’ 5 '
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable
Keyboard.
Unlimited Speed.
Two-Color Ribbon.
Steel Type.
Powerful Manifolder.
Light Touch.
Portable.
Built for Hard Work.
Warranted for two years.
Weight 121 b.
Don’t wait till your business grows before you
get your typewriter.
Get a typewriter now, and your business will grow.
THK BRITON is the popular typewriter, because to merchants,
professional men, telegraph operators and journalists it means full
guaranteed value at the lowest possible price.
OUR OFFER . —We carry stock in every state, and will ship you a
‘ Briton typewriter, charges prepaid. You use it for ten days’ free trial.
If you return it we pay freight, and you incur no obligation whatever.
If you want to keep it, remit the cash price, £g 10s., or if you prefer to
pay in instalments, we charge 10s. extra.
WRITE AT ONCE TO
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
Cor. GEORGE and WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
17 Queen St., Melbourne; 364 Queen St., Brisbane; 131 King William
St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Hobart; 17 Grey St., Wellington, N.Z.


A FAVORITE
SUMMER DRINK.
HEERINC’S \
Cherry BRANDY
with Iced Water
WHEN A WOMAN GOES GREY
she begins to look old and is looked upon as a back
number.
Dyed hair always appears dyed, and dyes injure the
hair, so it is worse than useless to use dyes.
Have you heard about the wonderful Hygeia Treat-
ment? It restores the color to grey hair gradually and
naturally without the use of dyes, stains or injurious
chemicals. The marvellous success of this unique treat-
ment is due to the careful individual study giten each
patient by Mrs. Cowling, as well as her undoubted skill.
The treatment may be done for you at the Institute,
where a suite of rooms is beautifully equipped, or you may
carry it out in your own home—the latter being the more
economical method.
Distance is no bar to successful treatments’ Send full
particulars now, and a few hair combings for free diagnosis
of your case, to Mrs. Cowling, who gives free consulta-
tions every afternoon but Saturday between 2.15 and 4.15,
and on Wednesday, by appointment, from 6 to 7. Her
address is—Dept. B, Hygeia Institute, Ocean House,
opp. Government Savings Bank, Moore Street, Svdney.
R°B U R
i
o
TJ-
:D
You’ve no idea what fun it is
being in a te -room what,
between the johnnies at lunch,
and the girls in ihe afternoon,
and the old cats scandalising
each ot':er all day long, one’s
kept pretty well amused —of
course, Tunning backwards and
forwards with cups o’ tea and
things all day long is very tiring,
but as 1 said before the time passes
quickly (nough when there are
lots of people about.
It’s a money-making business
too, is a tea-room, if you’ve got
the trade —and the best way to
get a trade and keep it is to give
people good tea—they’ll come a
mile for a good cup o’ tea.
If ever 1 start for myself I’ll
give ’em tea they’ll talk about
—l’ll give ’em “Special ” Grade
Robur, the very best tea money
can buy they’ll come to my
place if giving them good tea
will bring them.
The Waitress.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 30, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
That energetic upholder of woman’s rights, the
Dowager Empress of China, is still causing
trouble notwithstanding that she is safely dead
and buried. The old lady was accorded a remark-
able funeral, which consisted largely of camels and
crackers, with a flavoring of torchlight procession
and other hilarities. It was such an original pro-
gress to the tomb that hordes of photographers—
including representatives of the London papers—
haunted the route and snapped off films. Now
the poor old Viceroy of Ghi-'li—who owns a name
like a broken tooth—has been degraded and dis-
missed for allowing the camera men to get within
range of the performance, and for stringing tele-
graph wires along the trees near the tomb. The
ruined potentate is understood to be ironing hard
in Pekin, or furiously growing vegetables in the
backyard of the Temple of Heaven. If the
Riled Family’s shirts come back with holes in
them, or the cabbage explodes and scatters the
dynasty all over the block, Fang will probably be
the person responsible.
Lady Poore, of Admiralty House, is back in
Sydney from a restful interlude with theCunning-
hames at their homestead at Queanbeyan. Cards
for an evening garden party for to-night (Tuesday)
suggest that the Lady o’ War has got rid of that
sagging sensation in the spine induced by our
nor’-easter.
The high-pressure and versatile little Miss May
Summerbelle has acquired a five-stone diamond
ring from an admiring phalanx of women. The
presentation deed was done at tea at the Australia
Hotel, and some 60 or 70 ladies were the sub-
scribers. The woman worker who can count 60 or
70 women so well-disposed as to express their
friendship in diamonds is a rarity, and deserves
her luck.
Miss Clara C)emens, Mark Twain’s daughter,
was married recently to a Russian pianist named
Ossip Gabrielovitsch. If the bride is the daughter
the great jester had with him in Australia, the
Russian gentleman is a fortunate person. She
was a dear, wore her hair brushed down over her
ears and knotted at the back, and played the
piano like—well, possibly in a manner that satis-
fies her Gabrieletc. He looks like Mark Hutn-
bourg, and is most probably a Hebrew—nearly
every Russian and Polish musician of distinction
is a ’Brew. For that matter, didn’t all the leading
Hebrews in Sydney and Melbourne claim Mark
Twain as one of their race as soon as they met
him?
This mention of a musician reminds me of my
recent reading of “Stradella,” one of the two,
Marion Crawford stories that have been published
since their writer’s death. It is an old Venetian
love tale, and has for its hero Allessandro Stradella,
a noted singer and composer of the seventeenth
century. Just awhile ago J heard our Sydney
troubadour, Burns-Walker, sing one of Stradella’s
compositions in a church. ’ It sounded so
foreign and miserere-ish that 1 sought its
composer’s identity.' Most of my friends told
me I must be a cave-dweller not to have known it
long ago. They know a lot of Stradella’s masses
—by sight. That night I slept uncomfortably on
the bed of leaves in my cavern, being depressed at
the thought of my ignorance. Anyhow, one reads
the story with greater interest when one knows
one is reading of an actual music-maker with a
romantic career. He was violently pursued by
the amorous, clamorous female of his time, just as
is the male singer of to-day from Caruso to Mr.
Clayton of the Havana ” co., at Her Majesty’s.
Sometimes he didn’t run from the pursuit, often
he did ; and when he met the woman he loved he
ran away with her. She was the affianced of
another man, and the other man sent mis-
creants after Stradella to do murder.' Craw-
ford sticks to facts fairly well so far as the
rather doubtful chronicles of Stradella are con-
cerned, but he hated the unhappy ending, and he
makes the singer and his beautiful Ortensi*. live
happy ever after. Stradella’s later fate, as it
happens, is wrapt in mystery. One of ’*the
chronicles says he and his wife were murdered in
their bedroom by the agents of the Venetian
noble from whom he stole his Ortensia. For the
rest, I like his shoes of soft purple leather. And
he carried his lute in a purple bag. Wasn’t it coy ?
A league from Bowral is the one-time country
retreat of the tmeas-ToothsJnow at the service of
the summer boarder. It is a big wooden house
with verandahs and panelled ceilings, and on one
s deof the entrance hall a stained window sets forth
the armorial bearings of the departed owner. A
man in aCrusader’s suit is there, and belowis a com-
position of spotted gryphons and other un-zooish
animals. A plumed helmet forms an extra, and
wreaths of what look like hops, but rqigiht be rose
leaves, interspersed with sundry monograms, are
mixed up with daggers and things. A motto writ
1 .eneath— Tersercrantiapalmam obtinibet” —very
freely translated, might mean ‘‘Keep grafting
and you’ll take the palm,” or the jug of double
XX or something suchlike. Since quitting this
“ desirable country residence, lovely view,” etc.,
the L.-Ts. have acquired something more ancient
which rears its pile somewhere on the map of the
Ned Country.
Some 1100 guests were made miserably discon-
tented by thecommanderof tbeOrient linerOtranto
on Thursday night. He inveigled them into
attending an At Home on board his thing of steel
and flame and silken tapestry and satinwood ; but
he made no provision for taking them away with
him. In fact, the cards cold-bloodedly intimated
that the function was from eight o’clock to 10. A
discontented mind is a continual beast, wrote some-
one. The only persons who weren’t made discon-
tented by the luxury of the leviathan were (1)
those who had travelled afar and could do so
again, and (2) those who are such bad travellers
that the mere sight of a vessel’s funnel on the
horizon makes them ask to to be thrown overboard
and put out of their misery. Of this class lam
one. But I sympathised with my friends who
leant over the vessel’s rail and made more saltjq
with tears, the harbor’s salt, because they were
not outward-bound with the Otranto. Her decks
glowed under the electrics, and from every one of
her hundreds of portholes shone lights. Seen
from the harbor side she looked a perfect lady, and
er usbands, the men-o’-war in Farm Cove, must
have been proud of her. I suppose a liner is
allowed more than one ’usband, though Kipling
didn’t specify.
All over her three decks swarmed the visitors.
They poured into the cabins, exclaiming at the
brass bedsteads (not berths), the bow-windows,
the nursery, the private suites, the electric lift
and the Georgian-style decorations. Nearly all
well-known Sydney was on deck, and nearly all
who desired the awful thing known as information
were indebted to Mr. R. S. Suttor, of the Sydney
Orient office, for the same. He was even asked
if he didn’t think that steam spoilt romance at sea,
and how much the lady cost in coal, and he had
beautiful replies concealed in his evening clothes.
The G. H. Reids, fresh from their knighthood,
looked upon the liner’s magnificence. The lady
knight, as usual, was about the best gowned pre-
sent. Creamy draperies and silvern tissue com-
prised her outfit.
Mayor of Sydney Allen Taylor opened the
Society of Artists’ Exhibition on Friday with
several sympathetic sentences, and backed his
good wishes by buying “BellevueHill,”one of Miss
Isobel McWhannel’s landscapes. The longed-for
order of the red star is affixed to many of the
pictures.
Dr. Thring, the well-known guineacologist, has
bought Langlee, the J. T. Browns’ place, at
Waverley, the finest possibly in that district. At
the recent auction sale at Langlee the buhl bed-
room suite was bought by a well-known Sydney
sports man for 350 guineas. The pictures weren’t
gifted away as good pictures so often are, and the
Georgian silver fetched £2 an ounce, and another
brand of elderly silver brought £7 an ounce. The
Browns leave Australia early in the new year.
This State s Chief Railway Commissioner, an
embittered bachelor, it is said, who couldn’t
Huff” to save his life or his billet, struck a
brilliant idea the other day, so an up-country
correspondent tells me. He was at Wambool
or thereabuts, and a deputation asked him
if he didn’t think the department could
afford some kind of a verandah at the
local railway-station. “ What d’ye want it for ? ”
asked the imported genius. Wambool thought
Mr. Johnson knew what verandahs were for ; but
in case he really didn’t one deputationist
mentioned that they were to keep rain off
people in winter, and sun in
ladies especially. Then, according to my
up-country correspondent, the brilliant idea
descended upon Mr. Johnson, and lit up the
whole neighborhood : “Tell the ladies to carry
umbrellas!” Wasn’t it clever of him? B-ut,
then we have a right to expect a good deal' of
cleverness for two or three thousand a year.
Miss Claire Whiting’s portrait, as published in
the British Australasian what time she became
Mrs. Lieutenant Hammond-Ohambers, R. N., is a
beautiful picture. The hyphenated naval man is
also pictured, and seems to be a big-eyed person
with a stepping-heavenward expression and a
polka-dot tie. The wedding occurred in London,
.at E iton-square ; and the jewels, .-and gold-
mounted dressing-cases, and tray-cloths .and
bread-forks, lace fans and silver rose-bowls, and all
the other goods that are delivered to the fashion-
able bride were present in superfluity. Half well-
known Sydne3’side sent its contribution to swell
the list.
The motor-car Prestons of this State departed
for a foreign trip and a marrying last week. Miss
Preston is the bride-elect, and she weds in London
the son of Sir Something Somebody. The name
he puts on his cheques has glode from my memory
—partly, no doubt, because I never received his
cheque.
Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh, wife of the promoter
of the classic mill at Rushcutter’s Bay (not the Mill
on the Floss) is back in Sydney as smart as
foreign travel and the same kind of maid can
make her. The draped skirt and the recovered
waist line, and the nearly untrimmed hat or
Russian turban—she’s got them all down to the
last grace note, and she carries them well, being
young and comely. A 60-horse-power motor car
is included in her luggage.
I see that my sisters in Westralia are not to be
allowed to put on the barrister’s horse-hair trans-
formation, and argue defenceless Jay pees and
thipgs into a state of stupefaction. Of course,
the Upper House did it, but the clause was only
struck out “after considerable discussion ” by 11
votes to nine; so the ancients were not quite easy
in their heads about it. I don’t think women
barristers would crowd the men away unduly at
the six-and-eightpenny counter; and, anyway,
they are more competent to deal with certain
cases than’ are men. I remember when the big
corset argument was on down south some years
ago. The court was strewn with the things that
keep the sex upright if not honest, and awkward,
ignorant lawyers were arguing and trying to tell
each other things about them. So far "as I know,
only one Melbourne law man wears the contriv-
ances, and of course he wouldn’t say anything.
Now, women barristers would have revelled in
that action. They would have tried them all on,
and the Judge would have spent a really gay and
instructive week or two.
Mrs. Allen Taylor is out of commission as
mayoress of Sydney for a few weeks. Bronchial
asthma is her trouble, and if she isn’t suffering
very much she ought to be obliged to the attack
for the enforced rest.
Why run after Paris goods for your Christmas
gifting? “ Paris is short on morals and long on
lingerie ” ; but you won’t get anything from there
so attractive and useful for presentation to
yourself and friends as you will find at the annual
exhibition of Arts now raging at the
Royal Art Society’s Rooms in Pitt-street. Mrs.
Tom Hughes opened the show last week, and
then a smart audience fell upon the beautiful
things, seeking (and finding) Australian souvenirs.
A serious-looking booklet with “Annual Re-
port of the Sydney University Extension Board,
1908-9,” printed on its cover, has just struggled to
the summit of the heap of frivolous papers on my
desk, and demands instant attention. As every-
body knows, the Board’s purpose in life is to
pursue with educational sandwiches the men and
women who are chasing their daily crust.
AVhen it overtakes the panting crusc-chaser, it
crams a sandwich or two into his or her pocket, so
that the runner will be mentally strengthened and
enabled to go faster. That done, without wait-
ing for thanks, it rushes after the next handiest
person who wears a knowledge-hungry look. It
is cheerful to be able to say that the Board, on the
whole, has had a successful year, and covered a
large area of the Menu of Knowledge. It has fed
the engineering and electrical staffs of the
N.S.W. Tramways with special lectures on some-
thing called Electro-Magnetic Induction, and it
has ladled out instruction on such widely different
topics as Browning, Fish and Music. I grieve to
note that my own suburb of Mosman was one
qf the centres which hadn’t much appetite ; I
sincerely hope that the only reason why it didn’t
attend the banquet in heaps was that it didn’t
know the meal was on.
Miss Marie Narelle, writing from torrid regions
ip Westralia, records splendid support for her
music-making combination in the smaller places—
Southern Cross. Norseman, Laverton and the
like. . Kalgoorlie and the Boulder were too
fatigued to make overflow audiences; but at
the former gilded town the singer ate lemon
cheese-cake tarts the perfection of which
quite compensated for any lack in the
box-office returns. Norseman gave her two
shocks. Shock one : a sinking of the heart when
she entered the metropolis and fouqd it to consist
of a few places of business and some houses stand-
ing very much in their own grounds. Life didn’t
tread on life, and the people didn’t press too close
ip church and mart to keep a dream of grave
apart, as the Browning lady poet complained.
On the contrary. The soprano wept a'U.over the
galvanized iron houses, and wondered where a
paying audience was- to come from. Shock
two: a great uplifting of the heart when
she faced a packed house of nice-looking people,
who, moreover, showed by their applause that they
preferred the better class music. Duets from the
operas were the favorites. For three nights there
were full houses and appreciation, and the Narelle'
heart was purring like a dynamo. The same
report might 'apply to .many other of the
Westralian lonelv-looking tpyvnshi'ps. At Laver-
ton the singer’s reception was warm—-especially
from the weather.
At seven in the morning it was 101° in her bed-
room. By lunch time it was 116°; and at night,
when the concert began, it was 108°. Yet good
business was done. For the rest, the company
had its collective portrait taken mixed up with a
camel team ; and judging by its collective ex-
pression the camels, like Macbeth’s rank offence,
must have smelt to Heaven.
When Miss Narelle has time she is going to
explore these Westralian towns more carefully,
and find out where the musical people come from.
You strike a place which seems to consist of half a
shovelful of houses, a great immensity, one wild
cat, and an overworked thermometer. Yet that
place is quite capable of producing a large, intel-
ligent, enthusiastic audience when called upon.
Evidently these people live underground. Miss
Narelle doesn’t object to them doing that; what
riles her is the careful manner in which they must
halve put a board (painted to look just like the rest
of 1 Westralia) over the orifice which leads to their
subterranean home. And she badly wants to go
down and look at the shops.
Miss Sylvia Blackstone and her mother got back
to Sydney by the Orsova on Saturday. Sylvia
has put up self, voice and mamma at Petty’s
Hotel. A concert or two are promised.
De Dio, the pretty little brunette dancer at the
Tivoli, has revived the old serpentine dance.
You know it—the skirt with its 60yds. of
thin silk and the two invisible sticks, only
De Dio’s innovations of colored illuminations
and spectacular effects give the old thing the
charm of freshness. Flowers, butterflies, birds,-
concentric rings and hoops in silver and flame,
and rivers of changing light warranted to damage
your eyeballs are rained on and around the dancer
as she flutters her 60yds. of skirt. The cremation
of She is startling. It is like something de Quincey
saw in his hashish dreams.
The constituents of indiarubber and dynamite
must enter into the make-up of the Trapnell girls
at Harry Rickards’ temple. Such neat little
figures the trio are, and you wonder the
whereforeness of their Sandowish strength, for
there are no bulging muscles on their arms, and
their legs don’t remind you of the props of a Shet-
land pony. One of the damsels holds an arm out
rigidly, and her brother springs on to it like a frog
and waves his feet to the flies. Then the rest of
the family join him in taking standing exercise on
the top of her head or in jumping all over her
Peter Pan collar. When she wishes to rest from
them she curls herself up and bounces into the
upper air, and stays there without support until
the applause is finished. Springs and patent
hinges, indiarubber, dynamite and steel springs—
the other name of all these things is Trapnell.!
Miss Lucille Benstead, the girl with the Voice
from Alice Springs, will further add to her edu-
cation fund by a concert at Sydney Town Hall on
December 2. Assisting artists will be of the elect
of this furiously musical community.
The Hugh Ward Co. ran through Sydney last
week. It landed from Maoriland on Friday, and
departed for Brisbane on Saturday. It is due here
anon—by ketch probably, when the coal runs out.
Mrs. AVard has taken a house up Darlinghurst
way, and is busy putting in position the Indian
furniture her husband bought for her.
The joyless person in the flat hat, who moans
over our colored brother and reproves his own
white relatives for speaking harshly to him. is apt
to forget that the Caucasian gets considerable
provocation in the way of insult. For instance,
when the dethroned Shah of Persia was being
.escorted out of Teheran the other day, Mrs.
Mphatnmed Ali fired off remarks like this : “ Oh,
the scoundrels ! They want to send me to Europe
to live among the unclean ! If I happen to die
who will wash my corpse ? Those unclean hands .
No; never never! ” If plain Mrs. Jones, or
Woolloomooloo, shouted that at Circular <Juay,
she would be fined 40s. or seven days.
A man who says his name is “ Mahlstick ’ sends
me this: —
What is a kink? I can’t find it in the dictionary. Yet
I want the word so badly that I pencilled it on my cuff in
the street to-day. I put it there to help me remember a
country girl with a pretty kink in the right hip. She h 3 **
a sister with her, and they were as fresh as wild flowers
gathered in Queensland or Westralia by my friend Mrs.
Rowan, the flower huntress. My kinky girl was in light
blue, with pink veiling round a chip straw hat. Men fall
in love with kinks. There are kinks in the ankle, hip,
nose, mouth, cheek, hair or eye. Louis the Superb became
enamored of Louise de la Valli&re because of herfascinating
limp, like my kinky girl. I knew a girl with the most be-
witching walk, through her ankle having been run over by
a baker’s cartwheel when she was very little. The surgeon
at the Children’s Hospital made it better than new.
There is a heavenly kink, like hers, in Ola Humphreys
walk. Observe the teeny-weeny swing. Roxy Barton
had one, too. Eugenie Duggan has a sweeping, forward,
prancing kink. Why is Ellen Terry the most taking
actress ever you saw? Kink, kink ! Where it is I don’t
know. Charles Reade tried to find out, and wrote a lot
of puzzling stuff round her, the only tangible thing
being that she had a brickdust complexion. What
fetches a girl out of the chorus? Kink. How those
worry themselves who have chic without kink ! I asked
the waiter at Bignon’s, “What’s this delicious Pate de
P’oie Gras?" “ Oh,” says he, “it’s diseased goose liver.”
There you have it. Always a touch of unsound physique
in the fascinating woman. There is no kink in plain
corned beef.
Yours affectionately,
AKENHI.
Though the Chaffeys didn’t establish their
name for ever and ever at Mildura, “Big Ben.”
one of the family, is nowadays spreading himself
out over the Far West (N.S.W.) as no other man
is. Station after station is falling into his hands,
the last to go being Cuthero, one of the biggest on
the Lower Darling—so big that 15 years or so
back a little break-away tribe of quite wild blacks
was found in the mallee and porcupine hind-
quarters of it.


Mb
y**, *~} s'-.;,
v»C
.“ • < 1 i > 5
IHIUS
asili
ii
■-.> v - -
*v
m
8®
im;
lM'
A.w
. ■ ;?? :-V ra‘&»& E&&£
1- fIWIS
V kr:&W $ s*?s!«£>
$ Ml Ml
?, v>;<i 4 /*.«&»
if Mi
•. x • .• ‘ A-Si, 7+l
If I
K®
II
\'Bl
\
•<
vMfe
mr.
\XA
V
<tr
<0
*
o
O
1-5 W
i ;: (
jrf
\
4$ I
ill
18
/
i_Vc -5]
II
11
*\\<
1
m
Tj-<>
fS
sr>
,
r
£
5?3
1
tem:
MU.
S6e Boot PolisK!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Puts a gloss
Upon your shoe,
And it stays
Upon the leather
Thro’ all sorts
And kinds of weather
Here he is
Demanding boots
With enthusi-
Astic hoots ;
“COBRA” is the
Stuff he uses
(Wise is he
Who “COBRA” chooses)


D.O.M.
BENEDICTINE
The Liqueur with 400Years’ Reputation.
Ca
V
m
V
Once
Use a
Dunlop
Tennis
Ball ,
and
You
Will
Use
No
Other.
DUNLOP
TENNIS
BALLS
being freshly made and free
from perish, ensure you satis-
faction that is not obtainable
from the imported article.
Just try a “Dunlop” Ball
and note the difference.
Obtainable all leading Sports Depots
DUNLOP RUBBER CO, all State, ar.d N.Z. i
Dunlop
Hose
Lasts for
Years.
m
DUNLOP
CARDEN nOX
will give you every
satisfaction, for it is
made to last. Does
not Kink or Burst.
The fact that more “Dunlop” Hose
is sold in Australasia than any I
other brand, speaks volumes for
its Quality and Durability. Only
accept “ Dunlop ” Brands.
OBTAINABLE ALL STORES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., all Stale, and N.Z.
9
Medical & Toilet. Black & Green [Met M
MISS HILDA SPONG and SOLYPTOL SOAP.
Miss Hilda Spong, tlie beautiful and accomplished actress, who commenced her stage career in Australia,
sends the following unsolicited testimonial to the manufacturers of SOLYPTOL SOAP :
Messrs. F. H. FAULDING & CO. Savoy Hotel, London, W.C., July 31, 1909.
Dear Sirs, —Your Solyptol Soap was recently brought under m3'notice, and you mat' be interested to know that
I have found it absolutely the best skin soap I have ever used. It lathers most freely in the hard London water,
its perfume is delightfulh'refreshing, and it leaves the skin soft and velvety in a manner unobtainable with
any other soap. It is particularly gratifying to me to know that Australia is the home of such a perfect
production. Yours faithfully, HILDA SPONG.
c 4 by all Chemists and Stores.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 29, 1909.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Last week there was a nice exhibition for a
democratic country. Several benighted beings
wandered up to Government House to have their
sad state officially ratified. Citizens who, any
other day, would say “Good morning, Bill,” or
ask a fellow man if he had a drinking orifice about
him, found it necessary to surround themselves
with abject and childish ceremony and gaze at
the world as if it were some strange animal.
Careful instructions went out to the Knights.
Civilian dress was to be worn, and the orders
would be attached to the every-day coat lapel.
Just the every-day lapel—the one “the citizen’s
wife shakes any morning as she gives her lord
commands, such as “Ring up the store and ask
them to send sausages .” This is rather a-wander-
ing from the serious matter in hand. Each knight
was to approach the Excellent Proxy by studied
steps. Two steps, then bow ; side step to the right;
one twirl of toe—then bow. Back water four
steps—then bow. Approach five steps —turn
round three times, sneeze—then kneel. And the
Excellent one then said, “ Arise Sir Jabez,” what
time lie thrust at him with his sword and tapped
his knightly shoulder. Thereupon the knight
arose, and, clad in every-day Australian dress and
a bauble, strode slowly to every-day daylight and
the company of his fellow foolish ones. Thus did
Knight Multum deport unto the outer world and
did scale the horrid sides of a dragon tram-car.
After that he did eat, and anon he observed the
ceremonies pertaining to Eat monetary changing.
Carmichael almost simultaneously had an Order
bestowed on him, but it was not mentioned in the
daily papers. ’Twas a wild and blusterous day.
Carmichael had driven from Creswick (where he
was blessing baby plants in the State nursery)
over to the Ballarat Show. He was in civilian’s
dress —in fact, he was so overcoated and saggy-
looking and blown about that he might have been
an Ordinary Man. A blasphemous citizen, roll-
up joyfully after gay lunching, lurched up and
triumphantly pinned an order on the Governor’s
coat. It was the button order of Singer’s Sewing
Machine, and the jester went off chuckling and
looking for a fresh victim.
The Dudleys seem to be striving conscientiously
to give everybody a turn. The other Monday
evening Florence Menkmeyer was invited to the
White House by the Yarra, to tickle and punish
the vice-regal pianoforte in the G.-G. presence.
When one remembers that the Countess had put
in the previous Saturday evening at the Princess’s
listening to the performance of an amateur
operatic society, one fancies that she couldn’t
have been hungering and thirsting for more music
just then.
Miss Effie Wheeler, the youngest daughter of
the late Member Wheeler, who was practically
Daylesford for 30 years or more, was married
t’other day to shipping man W. W. J. Leech.
The two were determined on the quietest wed-
mg possible. Their friends knew there were
marriage bells in the air, but they were kept in
the dark as to the date. Yet the Fates decreed
a romantic fuss. The bride-to-be, with two of
her sisters, ran up to a small country
town of sentimental remembrances, and, with no
more luggage than a suit-case apiece, the three
stayed quietly at the hotel. The bridegroom
motored up next day to the church. The quiet-
ness was managed so well that even the country
town did not scent a marrying, and the two got
through the “I Wills” with no audience but the
aforesaid sisters and a parson. The wedded ones
got quietly into their motor to run down to
Melbourne and their Domain-road house. Half-
way down the motor fired and began to blaze.
“ Run,” said the bridegroom to the bride. “Not
without you,” said the bride; “we’ll die to-
gether.” So the pair rushed up the road, and
from afar watched their vehicle go up into smoke.
It was a lonely road and no sign of help was on
the horizon, so they trudged along to a distant
farm-house. It was growing late by this time,
and the burnt-out, travel-stained Two looked so
far from respectable that the farm-house re-
fused to shelter them. The small bride wept
with fury ; she had been used to country
people all her life, and had never met in-
iiospitality before. They tiredly trudged on
again, and presently they got a lift in a cargo
van, which dumped them at the nearest wayside
station. There was no train till morning. Then
a kindly stationmaster-porter-lamp-cleaner-and-
telegraph-man combined opened his heart and
signalled an approaching milk train to stop. Con-
siderable argument passed with the engine-driver,
but finally lie bumped and clanged along the line
to Broadmeadows. Another long wait got
them a suburban train. They wired for a taxi,
and arrived at their home some time in the small
hours. They weren’t due there till 7 p.m., and
their premises were a blank, dark, shut-up wall.
They knocked and rang and banged. No re-
sponse. The bridegroom then burgled into his
own conservatory and climbed a window—to dis-
cover the maids huddled together in horror and
their nighties, expecting to be murdered where
they stood. At last they became sane enough to
recognise the master of the house and the new
little “Missus” —tired and woebegone and
muffled in her motor coat and bonnet. The bride-
groom felt like a brigand who had carried off his
lady love by force to his castle.
Now everything is bright and happy, and Mrs.
Leech is discussing fascinating samples of a brand
new motor-car.
Already the household of a pair of important
newlyweds has known sorrow. Shortly after the
honeymoon, tiie young husband took to remaining
at the club till midnight was merely a memory.
One night, after an unusually whirling time, he ex-
pressed his intention of remaining in town until
the shops opened in the morning, so that he might
take his bride home “ something to square her”—
to quote Ins own geometrical phrase. There is
some talk of borrowing a curfew bell.
The Rev. Jacob Danglow, one of the very best
rabbis, was wedded at St. Kilda one afternoon
last week. Miss May Baruch, daughter of Mrs.
Dalbert Baruch, was the fortunate bride, and the
ceremony took place at the local Synagogue, which
had been decorated for the occasion with
eucalyptus and other foliage. Later the company
repaired to the residence of the bride’s mother,
where food was bitten.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson has been rusticating
with her progeny at Aspendale. where they have
a £3OOO jarrah hut planted on the seashore. It is
a most picturesque and white-sanded beach, with
a sand-bank to stave off sharks; so the happy
family has been swimming in the breakers without
fence or box or anything else ’cept the cutest
thing in bathing gear. Mrs. Williamson water-
proofs her hair with a Frenchy cerise cap, and the
bow makes the right high note in the blue sea and
grey-green ti-tree. Now the whole cavalcade has
regretfully moved on, in a big red motor, to the
city, ready for the rush back to Sydney.
The Best lady’s political nursery grows steadily.
Last meeting a hundred and a fringe ,of women
packed into the drawing-rooms, and fluffed round
the hall and perched on the stairs. The hundred
wore their very best hundred frocks, and deter-
mined to be most political. Minister Best
dropped his House style of snapping out figures
and facts, and purred most affably as he
explained intricate matters to the pretty dears.
The pretty dears listened sweetly and applauded
at what they thought was the most probable
moment. A pat-pat-pat of applause came from
beautifully-gloved hands, like the patter of rain
on broad leaves. Best told them gently that,
being women, they were born smugglers, and
tried to convince them that smuggling was not a
praiseworthy accomplishment, and gave them
nice, simple story illustrations to show what hap-
pens to naughty smuggler-women when they are
found out. Then he got into a plausible, but not
feasible, explanation of the financial agreement
about the division of the tariff revenue, and several
very pretty, puckered brows frowned over politely-
attentive eyes. But such a rustling sigh of relief
went up when the strain of that was lifted. It
was so like when John or Edward tried to explain
money matters, and show why the Hat Bill should
be less than the weekly housekeeping budget.
The beautiful Mrs. Best, with wistaria in her
hat, received these aspirants to political know-
ledge. Tea and strawberry removed the thinking
strain before the motors rolled up.
Circe—that beautiful bronze by McKennal—is
back again in the National Gallery. In former
days, during the haggling of the trustees over
some pounds in the price—Von Pinschof, swollen
with wealth, stepped in and paid the thousand
and carried off the wicked, naked lady. For a
long time the Consular Von kept the beautiful
thing in a packing-case in the backyard, for want
of a suitable cage. Then he built a niche in the
music-room just for her convenience, and Circe
flung out her compelling arms Over the crowds at
musical revels and lager suppers. Now he has
torn himself away from the fascinating image, and
once more Circe stands, adorably brown, in the
Gallery.
The Mutual Store has added a storey to its
height—one of the sweetest storeys ever told—and
the directors and shareholders are in a state of
mutual congratulation over the result. A particu-
lar feature of this enlargement of the old premises
is the new suite of tea rooms. These were opened
to the public on Monday—a “shareholders’ re-
ception ” having been celebrated on the Friday
previously. Time was when the Mutual was
thought of as rather out of the way, but Flinders-
street has come to be a favorite haunt of the
bargain-hunter and the tea-seeker. Among the
new departments at the Store the refreshment
department strikes one as a masterstroke of busi-
ness policy, seeing that they who go to shop will
be tempted to stay to tea, and the others who go
to tea will rarely escape without shopping.
At the charity concert for the extension of
district nursing in the bush, Melba was cheered
when she came on the platform. No one cheered
the little Countess when she came in. Yet the
idea was hers in the beginning, and was en-
couraged, in Brisbane first, by energetic speeching
on her part. It is a thing into which the haughty
lady has put unlimited enthusiasm.
The attendances at the organ recitals in the
Town Hall some two years ago indicated that the
city was growing musical, and the masses were in
earnest quest of lost chords. A break in the con-
tinuity of the series seems to have fractured the
charm of Dr. Price’s performances on the Town
Hall instrument as far as the fickle populace is
concerned. The educational movement was
arrested just when it was beginning to spread.
Price plays to meagre audiences (and on
Wednesday nights only) these times. His ex-
tensive repertoire is calculated to create an appe-
tite for classical music of the lightest and most
digestible kind ; but a lot of his old patrons have
deserted him, and the newcomers are an almost
imperceptible quantity at present. Possibly the
people who would have been there two or three
years ago are spending their beer money at cine-
matograph shows. If that is the explanation of
the falling-off in the popularity of an entertain-
ment which has really been improving all the
time, Organist Price should try the experiment of
plunging his recitals into darkness. If music be
the food of love, as Shalcspeare suggested, why
not switch the light off and give the lovers a
chance to lean against each other without
publicity ?
J. C. Williamson’s two new pantomime stars
have flashed into this city. The principal boy
is a blonde of the purest water —unperoxided, un-
adulterated, genuine blonde. She sat in the
manager’s box on Thursday night at “The Lady
Dandies,” with gold dust sprinkled on her pale
blonde locks, and used the principal “gel” as
foil. They both have any amount of snap and go,
off stage; so there’s hope for the panto. The
“ gel ” is a black-haired, blue-eyed colleen, with a
glint of devil in the things she looks with. They
had been rushed off the boat that same morning,
and had been acrobating round rehearsals and
dress-fitters and photographers all the dusty
day; and yet they were no languid English
damsels. They were quite alive and scintillating.
The Dudley gazed across appreciatively from the
centre circle. The Best People were spread in
select and sacred parties round about the throne
of the mighty. It was obvious they were the Best
People, though the crowd was dowdy—not a frock
in the bunch that would make one swoon in gentle
ecstasy. The Landales and the Vallange-Madden
throng, with the Forrest lady in blue, got nearest
the “precincts.” The little Gountess wore black
—not a successful departure from her usual white
robes. The two beauty daughters were muffled in
pink—“ crushed mouse” is Gouriet’s expressive
description of the color in “ The Dandies.” What
a pity the aides look so bored. Their boredom
spreads an atmosphere of gloom. Dudley himself
was quite alive and keen.
“ The Dandies ”is a charming opera—the music
is good, and everybody who can sing gets a chance.
Florence Young, in very little clothes and pink
tights, wakens up so that no one would recognise
the German widow that disguised her lately. She
is like a very pink girl in a skimpy bath-gown and
a windy corridor. Fan Dango hangs some fetch-
ing white transparent frills over her imitation of
Eve. It’s very fetching. The men wear the
clothes—satin clothes and be-e-eautiful stockings,
with bows on their garters. Roberts is striped
like a zebra. Bantock—well, ivords couldn’t
describe Bantock. Someone accustomed to paint-
ing tree frogs might do justice to his pallid fat-
ness of pale satin colors. Gourier and Leslie, in
more beautiful clothes and bows, dance weirdly
together with the sympathy of Siamese twins.
Her Majesty’s is most busy. In the intervals
of “The Lady Dandies” the whole boiling is
rushing bald-headed at pantomime rehearsal.
Conductor MacCunn is composing dance and
other pantomime music, and Jennie Brennan is
drilling acres of small ballet material. Every-
thing looks most promising if the coal strike
doesn’t extend and effect the electric lighting.
In that case the theatres will close, says J. C.,
and he is a man who knows things about theatres.
Mrs. W. E. Nptt, a very clever pianist, the
young widow of Organist Nott, passes on her
cleverness to her pupils. Mrs. Nott and Miss
Littlewood turned the upper room of the Paris
Cafe into a salon on Monday of last week, and
their picked pupils played and sang so well that
even the gossip ceased and the chatter left off. A
very little Miss Parker played something by
Goddard with the finish of a professional. Carrefio
(she with the whirly thing above the “ n ”), on her
visit here heard this child play and said impres-
sive things to her.
The Misses Hyams have-given their monster
end-of-the-year pirouette of hundreds of children.
Small bright youngsters, who can twirl a toe like
any grandmother in the ballet, place their few
inches into rather crude limelight and add an
atmosphere of assurance. The Misses Hyams
have taught almost every child in the surround-
ings of St. Kilda and farther afield. It is impos-
sible to walk half a mile in that sea suburb without
meeting a flock of fluffy-haired babies, carrying
ribboned tambourine and correct ballet shoes
(size f of 0), and every youngster playing in the
Polite Gutter of Suburbia waves an impudent leg
with the last Flossie ballet twirl at a passer-by.
The most extremely advanced of these most
advanced children did marvellous dances. Abra-
hams, that keen artistic collector, looked on at an
artistic houri whirling—the houri was his daugh-
ter. Much military gun and smaller ammunition
were in the house, led by the latest Maxim—
Major-General Hoad. There was a beautiful
supper of all the horrible things that make chil-
dren a terror to nursie and ma at night. The
Hyams ladies run a charity of their own—they
encourage all their pupils to bring along their
left-off toys, which are cast on the altar of charity.
Many of these are fascinating playthings, ignored
by the blasd and palatial kid, but a wild, hilarious
joy to a poor sick child whose usual toy is a stone
“ alley ” or a headless doll.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide:—
Just before they went over to Melbourne to pay their
respects to the Dudleys, the State Excellencies joined
forces to open still another flower show—at Mount Lofty
this time. Mount Lofty is the hillock which the Mel-
bourne express does its best to climb ; and to its gum
trees the peerage comes in the summer for shade and the
best society. Consequently no bloom was admitted to
the show if it didn’t keep three maids and a coachman ;
and if it spoke with the proper English accent so much
the better. When the function was unmistakably open,
Lady Bosanquet and the girls went off to afternoon tea
with the Langdon Bonythons, who have a castle on the
tip-top of the hillock.
Rhoda Holder, one of the daughters of the late Speaker
Holder, held an exhibition of her hand-painted china at
the Colton Hall last week. They are a clever family,
each a specialist of some sort, and this maiden has a kiln
on the family premises and does her own burning-in.
The exhibits varied from a wattle-blossom tea set of 38
pieces to tiny hand-painted buttons ; but whether it was
a pie-dish or a button, the design was nearly always good
Australian. One exception was a coffee-set whereon Jap
ladies pit-a-patted over a buff ground ; and a rose jardin-
iere and a beautiful little t&te-a-Ute set were well worth
stealing. The mayoress and much of the nobility helped
to admire the work of the clever hostess and to remove
the afternoon tea.
The East Terrace Croquet Club, which burst its gate
open the other Saturday, is a club of some note, and its
grounds are a beautiful leafy oasis in Gilles-street. There
are fine lawns, and old trees with rustic seats beneath
them, and a few flower beds—altogether a most desirable
place for afternoon tea-parties, which decorate it with
frequency. Among the champion croquers from various
parts who came to the opening were Mrs. Percy
Bollen and some Mains from the Semaphore, Mrs.
Paxton* from the Adelaide Oval Club, Mrs. Kilter
and Mrs. Roberts from Glenelg, and .sundry more.
While these played the scientific game with due
solemnity, the more frivolous rushed through croquet-
golf. Collector of Customs T. N. Stevens, his sister and
niece, and one of the Muecke maidens were among the
most assiduousin feasting the multitude between the play.
The new lady of Gov’ment House is a croquet player of
some skill and considerable enthusiasm, and whiles away
many a morning trundling her ball over the oval lawns i
so, of course, the game is the thing. The twin damsels,
however, lean more to tennis and long tramps abroad ;
and tramping abroad isn’t nearly so infectious. Any
Merely Matilda can do that.
The Kindergarten people the other evening unloosed
another flock of fully-fledged Kindergarteners. The
movement has grown tremendously in South Aus., and
varidus leisured damsels have flung their energies into it.
The head of the business is Miss de Lissa, a charming
and popular girl, still only in the young twenties.
The Holdfast Bay Yacht Club opened its season the
other Saturday, and asked a little crowd to come and see
what it thought of things. There was a string band and
afternoon tea in the kiosk, so that the verdict might be
rose-colored. Then the yachts sailed about the ocean,
while the audience successfully applauded in the wrong
places. The weather was clad in saxe blue with a touch
of white chiffon, and this was the only frocking worth
particular mention.
The opening regatta of the S.A. Rowing Club made a
small splash in our baby Torrens Lake the same day. The
feminine onlooker was discouraged from attending by a
baleful absence of tea or music. Nevertheless the sex
came down to the pool in surprising force. The male
people present included that good sports-patron Edwin
Smith and the Mayor, who %as there to hand over the
trophies to the victors.
The Josiah Symon dame and her Dresden-China
daughters have finished looking at the Tower of London
and the Sphinx of Egypt and the son and brother who
is learning to be an admiral. They came home by the
Commonwealth, and are back at Upper Sturt, in the
beauteous place that has all the flowers of the earth and
the birds of the air concealed about it.
Hymen will be employed this week on behalf of Agnes
Giles, a North Adelaide girl, and Walter Law Smith, who is
one of the Harris Scarfe ironware people. The bridegroom’s
family has been looking at the British lion, but has
arrived home in time to see the Voice breathe at Christ
Church on December 2.
Mrs. Cattle-Monarch Kidman and the eldest daughter
are going to Europe again by the Orsova. It is their
business to collect the other stray hopefuls of the family,
who were left at school in Paris, to acquire an English
accent and other polite accessories tacitly understood to
grow wild in the land of the frog. .
The German measle is abroad in the land. A arious
young olive branches have been cut down (for the time
being) in the midst of their matriculation, and there s a
rumor that one big college will shut its doors, the foreign
germ having made most discouraging headway.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


.****-
HAftd'r T. WI?J < or*
rim
.
■ ■ i
HBW
■I
»V
les»
’^my
uINCt
Here with a Loaf of Bread beneath the Bough,
A Flask of Wine, a Book of Verse—and Thou
Beside me singing in the wilderness—
And Wilderness is Paradise enow.
—Omar Khayyam.
SCHWEPPES’
LIME JUICE CORDIAL VERSE Competition.
READ CAREFULLY—
(x) For the first and third prizes—
Omar Khayyam. Competitors must write
a verse of not less than six nor more
than eight lines, bringing in the words
“Schweppes” and “Lime Juice Cordial”
once in such lines. Metre of verse to
conform to the style of Omar Khayyam
as far as possible. Verse to be accom-
panied with name and address of sender.
(2) For the second and fourth prizes
and ten prizes of each, send in your
idea of the best line to finish the under-
mentioned verse, with your name and
address, and the name of the paper from
which you took same. Address the
envelope to “Lime Juice Cordial,” c/o
Schweppes Limited, Foveaux Street, Syd-
ney, on or before 31st January, 1910.
(3) A competitor may send in any
number of entries provided the special
label herewith shown of Schweppes’ Lime
Juice CORDIAL (note, not Lime Juice)
is enclosed with each entry. To remove
label from the bottle, soak the bottle in
cold water for two or three hours, when
the label will peel off.
(4) The names of prize winners and
winning lines will be published in the
daily papers of the 15th February, 19x0.
Ist Prize, £25 2nd Prize, £lO
3rd Prize, £6 4th Prize, £4
10 Prizes of £1 each
E
L
1$
Mead Omct, 49 PALL MALL, LONDON
\
\ DißccTiohs - About one port mixebwith pe»rts of Wster
sobo t ev betici 005 sXnnu 1 aft'j n f <> 'bri 17k,
Beneath a whisp’ring gum they sat a-picnicking together
With Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial—for it was Summer weather;
He sighed above his brimming glass and said, “ Will you remember —
? ”
(5) If the entries should be so numerous
as to prevent the judges completing then-
work by the 15th February, 1910, the
daily papers will contain an intimation on
that date to that effect, and a later date,
not later than the 10th March, will be
announced.
(6) In order that every entry shall be
considered within the time allowed on its
merits and the skill of the competitors and
their exercise of judgment in the verse or
completing the line, as the case may be,
three or more judges will be appointed.
Each judge will select, out of the entries
allotted to him to adjudicate on, one
hundred of those he considers the best.
The three hundred or more, as the case
may be, of the entries so selected will then
be submitted to a final judge (from whom
the names of the competitors will be with-
held), and the final judge will adjudicate
from the list of such entries so submitted
to him.
(7) The decision of the last-mentioned
judge shall be final.
(8) Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial
(prepared exclusively from Montserrat
Lime Fruit Juice) can be purchased from
all leading Grocers, Hotels and Chemists
throughout the Commonwealth in reputed
pints and reputed quarts.


DO YOU NEED A GOOD WATCH ?
Open
Face,
7/6.
Higher
Grade,
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-faced Keyless
about WATCHES, short-wind, extra
splendid timekeeper,
7/0.
Higher grade, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
Knock-
strong,
Open
Face,
25/.
Higher
Grade,
30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel or Black Fly-back Minute Record-
ing CHRONOGRAPH, perfectly timed.
25/-
quality, jewelled, SO/, 40/, £3, and
£5. Guaranteed with a written certificate
Solid
Silver,
£2.
Higher
Grade,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
LEVER, f-plate, Fully Jewelled, per-
fectly timed and adjusted,
£2.
Higher grades, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/,
£5/10/. In Solid Gold, £7/10/,
£B/10/, £lO, to £lOO. A Written
Guarantee of Free Repair for 2 Years
goes with each Watch.
A. SAUNDERS.
G°nt ’s Solid Gold Hunting Keyless, Improved, i
nlate Elgin Lever WATCH, Fully Jewelled, Compen
sation Balance, perfectly timed and ■ adjusted,
£O/10/; Extra Heavy, £7/10.
Higher grades Elgin and Waltham,
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, to £lOO.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/.
Higher
Grade,
£lO.
THE', YOU WANT ONE with the latest improvements and the most of them. Whilst you’re buying,
get the best. You know that the
A. SAUNDERS’ WATCHES
stand for all that is best in watches down to the last detail, or there wouldn’t be so many in use m there
are now. They are backed by a reputation of over 25 years’ standing, and, although they may cost you
a trifle more than you’d pay for a cheap watch, they are the most satisfactory in the end.
Solid
Gold,
£lO.
Higher
Grade,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Gold Open-faced Key-
less Rotheram English LEVER,
Chronometer Balance, in four
grades. Solid Gold, £lO.
Extra Heavy Domed Cases,
£l2/10/. 18ct. Gold, £l5.
Extra Heavy Domed Cases,
£2O. Guaranteed for 6 years.
Open-
Face,
21/.
Higher
Grade,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-faced
Heart-shaped Keyless WAT-
CHES, fancy hands and dial,
strong and accurate time-
keepers,
21/-
Higher grade, 25/.
Open-
Face,
20/.
Higher
Grade,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies* Solid Silver Open-
faced Keyless WATCHES, |-
plate, jewelled movement, pa-
tent adjusted balance, richly
engraved cases,
20/-
Extra quality, 25/, 30/, 35/.
Kept in free repair for 1 year.
Most
Ladies are
Particular
About the style of
Watch they wear, and
rightly so. But what-
ever you may fancy,
you’ll not have the
slightest difficulty in
selecting a watch that
will please you as re-
gards accuracy, neat-
ness, and lowness of
price.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ WRISTLET WATCHES, Oxidised
Oases, Lever Movement, Morocco Leather Straps,
in Shades of Green, Black, and Maroon.
12/G.
Higher Grades, 15/, 17/6, 20/. In Solid Silver,
with Lizard Skin Straps, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/10/.
Strong Watches
for Men.
The average man
needs a good, strong,
and dependable watch.
We illustrate various
types of watches that
we guarantee to give
every satisfaction.
Buying, as we do, for
SPOT CASH direct
from the manufac-
turer, enables us to
give you absolutely
the best value in Aus-
tralasia.
Solid
Silver,
25/.
Solid
Gold,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, Richly En-
graved. Case, 1' uiiy
Jewelled, Platent Adjusted
Balance,
25/-
Iligher grade, 30/, 40/, 50/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/,
£4/10/- £5/10/, £O/10/. Per-
fect. Timekeepers.
Solid
Gold,
£4.
Higher
Grade,
£4/10/.
Ladies Solid Gold J-Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES, Fully
Jewelled, Compensation Bal-
ance, Extra Heavy,
£4.
Higher grade, £4/10/, £5,
£6/10/. Guaranteed with a
written certificate.
Open-
Face,
8/6.
Higher
Grade,
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-faced
Keyless WATCHES, strong
and accurate timekeepers,
S/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
Price according to quality of
movement.
A. SAUNDERS. , , . ,
Ladies’ Gold WATCH-BRACELET, Fully Jewelled, Very Reliable, and Accurate,
Higher Grade, £5. Extra Heavy, £5/10/. In 15cf 'Gold, £6/10/. £6/10/, £7/10/. Ditto, Chain, set with
- 4 s Rubies and Pearls, or Sapphires and Pearls, in loct. Gold, £B/10/, £lO-
YOU CAN ORDER EY POST.
Send vour order to us by letter. ()ur Up-to-
date Mail Order Department makes it perfectly safe
for you to do your shopping with us by post.
All goods sent, post free, to any address.
FREE CATALOGUES.
If you don’t see just the watch you fancy, drop
us a postcard, and we’ll send you our Illustrated
Catalogue. It includes Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather and Optical Goods. Write to-day.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/.
Higher
Grade,
£B/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ 10K Solid Gold Hunting Keyless
Stem-set Waltham LEVER, f-plate, Full
Chronometer Balance,
. .£O/10/. . _
With Extra Heavy Cases, £7/10/. 14ct
Gold, Extra Heavy, £B/10/; 18ct.,
£lO. Guaranteed 4 and 5 years.
Solid
Gold,
£l2/10/
Solid
aold,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Hunting Keyless, spe-
cially made Waltham LEVER, 4-plate
Chronometer Balance, Fully Jewelled,
Hand-finished throughout,
£l2/10/.
Extra Heavy Cases and Highest Grade
Movement, £l5. Guaranteed for 6 years.
Open
Face,
20/.
Higher
Grade,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-faced Keyless Knock-
about LEVER WATCHES, f-plate, non-mag-
netic movement, patent adjusted balance,
dust and water proof cases,
20/-
Higher grade, 25/, 30/, 35/.
Guaranteed for 10 years and kept in free
renair for 1 ye-"
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Nickel Open-faced Keyless Railway Level
WATCH, fully jewelled, compensation balance, pa-
tent screw dust and water proof cases.
£2-
Higher grade, £2/10/. In Solid Silver, £2/10/,
i 3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
Gold-
Filled,
£4/4/.
Gold-
Filled,
£5/5/.
sSs
SSfS
m
: '■ 0
,
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Oent’s lOkt. Patent Gold-filled Hunting;.
Keyless WALTHAM, Fully Jewelled, Com-
pensation Balance, £4/4/. I
Higher grade, 14kt., £5/5/; Nickel adjust-,
ed movement, £6/6/. Cases guaranteed
for 20 and 25 years; Works for 3,4, and
5 vears.
I
/
Solid
Silver,
£4/10/.
Solid
Gold,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Flyback Minute
CHRONOGRAPH, records the minutes and seconds on
a separate dial, Fully Jewelled, Lever Escapement, Com-
pensation Balance, patent Brequet Time Spring,
£4/10/.
Higher grade, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £lO.
In Solid Gold, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O, £25. Guaranteed
with a written certificate.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith, &
Consulting Optician.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


Shipping:.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents: GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA—E N GLAN D,
ORSOVA ..
OTWAY ..
OSTERLEY
ORVIETO ..
OTRANTO ..
ORONTES ..
OMRAH ..
OPHIR
ORMUZ ..
Twin-Screw
12,036 Tons.
12,077 „
12,129 ~
12,000 „
12,124 „
9,023 „
8,282 ~
6,814 ~
6,465 ~
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE. ,
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
■' without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33.888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727*264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE,
.T. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.' (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E,C-
Manager: R, R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD. '
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £508,197 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders,... .. 162,824 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 73,500 0 0
£744.521 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ’
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN.QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,300,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. ' Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kat’er, M.L.C. .. ... Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C:
Auditors : W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massik.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
, Manager : A. J, Soutar. 1 •
Accountant : W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant:: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
W, C. B. Tilby, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Shipping;.
Nord D <
ord JL/eutscher L/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egrvpt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers
Marseilles, Gibraltar. London, Antwerp, and Bremen.’
Twin Screw Steamers.
FRIEDRICH DER
GROSSE
SEYDLITZ .
BREMEN..
KONIGIN LUISE
GNEISENAU ..
SCHARNHORST
Sydney.
Unsurpassed Seagoing - Maximutn~ssiid:
Safety a ™* Tonnhsre, Best Accommodation, Excellent
the S A<rente! VlL rY ‘ F ° r further P a «'culars apply to
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANIT A
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA ’
Tel. 695.
LOHMANN & CO.,
7 Bridge-street, Svdnev.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY IiKANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING. (iEOKGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
-2.000,000
£500,000
£710:998
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C. Chair
(Gihbs, Hrijrlit & Co.); J. Ca.ui'UKLl,- Wood, Esq,
VV. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Am.k.x, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN* WHARF.
GALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
• Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-GLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
OALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail
December
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail
December 22.
about
about
AFKIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC, to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
F'ARKS—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New Vork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne . .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Uohjet tj and tompani/. Ltd
Agents in Australia.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cook town, and thence bv
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo tc
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Sh'ortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. 5
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO.,
Ltd., lO Bridge St.,
SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOOTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
_ m ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
T tenMB t 0 Bettlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
00 Advances made from £5O to £2000;
(b) Low AMD FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being- charged.
The tenures, upon which the Advance Department may lend are:—(l) Freeholds (2) Certificated Pen
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), Uncertrficated CondltiSnai
isrufrf e th ( e w ' t H^LS u LrtrTn ed < s e c t o tr itio, i al , Leases >; ( , 4)
Purchase Leases Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
• SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
JHIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
A situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest. country lands well
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Sk.crf.tart, at Moore Street, Sydney.
HICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
& H, McDONALD, Manager.
TASMANIA.
HIGHFIELD.
.The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
—The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged and Re-
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite for the
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class Cuisine.
Alcock s Billiard Tables.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &C.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
EXECUTORS
'THE TRUSTEES,
"*■ AXD
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35.000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Prate ; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW.))AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
SUMMER SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear.
Hotels, &c.
EORGE
Vt
HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., Lcndon, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to .mil from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,'
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), December 4,
ealliTi"' at all X.-Wesc
Ports to Wvndhnm.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
BRISBANE,
MACK AY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports'Norrh to Oiirrw.
S.S. Allinga, Dec. 3.
S.S. Oran tala, Dee. 10.
S.S. Yongala, Dec. 17.
Best ana Cheapest Route to Goiaftelds.
c saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services suhject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL St CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANAOIAN-AUStRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
the BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
AND VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
SPECIAL EXCURSION
TO THE MAGNIFICENT
WEST COAST SOUNDS
OF NEW ZEALAND
without transhipment.
ROUND TRIP WILL OCCUPY 11 DAYS.
FARE— £l2 lOs. to £l5 lOs.
Two and Three-Berth Cabins only.
It is proposed to despatch the Royal Mail Twin-screw
Steamer
MAKURA, 8100 TONS
(if sufficient inducement offers),
TO MILFORD SOUND DIRECT,
Leaving- Sydney FRIDAY, 31st DECEMBER ;
Arriving back TUESDAY, 11th JANUARY.
Steamer will remain three days in Milford Sound, and
will then visit the Southern Sounds.
ONLY FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS will be carried,
and, to ensure comfort on board, the number will be
limited. . , i , ;
Full particulars on application to—
UNION S.S. CO. OF N.Z., Ltd., George Street.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., PROP., Ltd,, Pitt Street.
F. H.
S.
Federal>Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Ca.nat,.
T.S.S. “DORtET.”
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 7th Dec
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - 14th Dec.
„ MELBOURNE - 21st Dec.
~ ~ ADELAIDE - - 25th Dec.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL ! £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne’
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
H AVE you tried this beautiful SKIN PREPARATION?
VERONIQUE. WE ONLY WISH YOU TO TRY A
SMALL JAR—the result will be so gratifying to you that
you would not be wjthout it for one day.' Every' French-
woman who yalues her complexion uses VERONIQUE. It
does wonders for them, and will do the same for you.
VERONIQUE makes the skin smooth, soft and white, re-
moves blemishes, and so nourishes the skin that wrinkles
disappear. VERONIQUE costs 3s. per small and ss. per
large jar. Obtainable from the Sole Agents onlv : THE
AUSTRALIA MANICURE AND TOILET ROOMS, 42a
Castlekkagii Street (over Medlow Bath Hydro Offices),
exactly opposite the Hotel Australia. .Entrance through
large doorway. Here also are the finest Manicure Rooms
in Sydney. Add fid. for postage.
RUPTURE
Co you Buffer from this complaint ? No doubt you with
lo be cured without operation. T hen send for particulars
oi our perfect!ittin^
Automatic Air cushion Appliance
the Best Rupture Applianc ■ or the Centuay -
Two Day* Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fie:
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St„ Melbourne, Vic
A POLICY' ion the COMMONWEALTH
Price, (id. The Bulletin Office.


HAIR PRESERVED
AHD BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
When you feel bilious take Chamberlain’s
Tablets, and the trouble will quickly disappear.*
KIDNEY AND BLADDER TROUBLES.
Mr. Duncan McKellar, of 91 Princes Street,
Sydney, who contracted a cold in the kidneys, tells
in the following letter how.he suffered with aching
back and bladder troubles from which he could gain
but little relief until he commenced taking Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. As a verification of
his statement he sends his photograph for
publication.
w.
“I have much pleasure,”
he writes, “in testifying to
the worth of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. Some
months ago I contracted a
cold in the kidneys, and
bladder trouble followed.
Por some weeks I suffered
agony at times, piercing
pains in the back, and burn-
ing sensations at the base of
the abdomen, which only
hot fomentations relieved.
I was under various treat-
ments, but nothing gave me
so much ease as Dr. Morse’s
Mr. Duncan McKellar. Indian Root Pills, which I
(From a photo.) took regularly for some
weeks, until all symptoms seemed to have dis-
appeared. ■ I have since continued their use, taking
three pills occasionally, and I can assure you that
lam almost free from my complaint. At the first
indication of any return I take a dose immediately,
and it is thus warded off. Undoubtedly your
pills are an excellent medicine both for children
and adults, being mild in their action and effectual
as a corrective of all common family ailments.
My wife and children take them occasionally, and
we always keep a bottle in the house and recom-
mend them to everyone.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a positive remedy for bilious-
ness, indigestion, constipation, headaches, sallow
complexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles,
pimples and blotches, and for female ailments.*
RESCN’S SELECT
ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE , NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KAICOORLIE and OOOLCARPtE.
Brewert and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
For the third year Australasia holds the lawn
tennis championship of the world. This time Brookes
and Wilding held it easily. The Californian youngsters,
neither of whom is over 19, who represented the United
States in the challenge round of the Davis Cup competi-
tion, were “up against it ” when opposed by such
veterans. McLoughlin is a tall, red-haired, determined-
looking youth whose smashes and serves have the muzzle
velocity of a Lee-Enfleld ; but he missed many a chance
by indiscriminate swiping. Long is also tall, lithe and
fresh-looking. He uses his head more than McLoughlin,
and on his form in the first two days’play tie looks like
becoming a world champion within the next five years.
In his single against Wilding he missed many a low back-
hand volley ; but in the doubles he made few mistakes,
and his smashes were a revelation for crispness and speed.
In the first two days the Australasians won
every match and every set. When the grim, imperturb-
able Brookes started against McLoughlin, it looked like a
father playing with his son. When Brookes is at his
best he plays tennis with the cold-blooded accuracy of a
calculating machine; and he plays it chiefly with his
brain. His serve is purely psychological, and always
lands where his opponent does not expect it. His strokes
are timed with such exactitude that he does not appear
to be getting much pace. His opponent knows. But
both the Americans’ serves have a tremendous spin, and
the second comes with the same rocket-like velocity as
the first. Consequently, there are a lot of double-
faults. McLoughlin uses the reverse American serve
with killing effect, but the crouch before delivering it
gives the show away to his opponent. Against Brookes’
mathematics McLoughlin could do nothing. Brookes
won with ease—6-2, 6-2, 6-4. Wilding is more haphazard.
He looks almost sorry when his opponent’s ball goes out
—he would like another smack at it. He took Long
easily, playing mostly from the back line. Long’s weak-
ness in this match was the low back-hand volley, and
Wilding saw that Long had plenty of practice at it.
Wilding won—6-2, 7-5, 6-1.
A surprise awaited the spectators on the second
day, when a fast court gave the Californians the sort of
ground they were accustomed to. Evidently the last
thing Beals Wright had said to the boys had been “ Toss
’em to Brookes”; and he must have sent a wireless
to them on the way, “ Keep on tossing ’em to Brookes,”
and on arrival they probably found a cable awaiting
them, “ Toss more to Brookes.” For the lob to Brookes—
unless it is short —finds out his weakness, and the young-
sters found it out, too. It was a brilliant, breathless
game, won by safety against speed, experience against
youth. But in two years time ! The smashing of
the youths was marvellous, while the Australasians
merely placed their volleys and waited till the ball went
out. Not that all the brilliance was on one side. Brookes
began weakly, but the strength he is to his side can be
gauged by the fact that he won every one of his serves.
Doubles, as now played, is the server’s game ; and, with
such a quartette, the sole hope of Winning a set is to cap-
ture one of the opponents’ serves. This great game was
won by Brookes and Wilding—l 2-10, 9-7, 6-3. The ques-
tion now is—Where are the Australasian players of 19
who show- any sign of taking the places of Brookes and
Wilding ?
* * * *
Bill Lang, who is to scrap with Fitzsimmons on
Boxing Day at Sydney Stadium, is now in Sydney under-
going training treatment. Fitz is doing his little lot
out at “The Rest” (National Park) among the tame
kangaroos and the friendly platypus and ’possum. On
Saturday last he gave an exhibition at the Stadium, and
the place was crowded— largely with women, to whom
Mrs. Fitz dispensed afternoon tea. Fitz banged away
with four heavyweights, and floored one of them several
times. Also he punched the ball, and finally knocked it
off the hook right out among the audience. He always
does that at the finish, and does it artistically.
Fitzsimmons is something of aproblem. Facially
he looks as old as the everlasting hills. His dome-like
forehead and the top of his head are quite bald, but the
back and the sides are fringed round with a great shock
of red hair ; the sort that never goes grey. He is clean
shaven, of course ; and with a pleasant lazy expression of
eye. He approaches his victim with a perfectly friendly •.
expression, just as a farmer approaches a middleman to
shake hands—and then “ whack, bash, piff.” His arms—
the famous freckled arms that made Australia a name
to he respected in Yankeeland— are long, sinuous, and
show’ no signs of the corrosion of age. Likewise his legs.
There is none of the Yankee crouch about him. He
stands up straight and hits like lightning. Occa-
sionally he sends his weight with it, but he
seems to have the ability to hit a tremendous
muscular blow. His hooks are wicked things ; his
straight drives are pistol-like ; and his agility, his foot-
work, his control of his body are all youthful. It is an
old, old face and head on a body that, if not young,
shows no signs of age—only of rugged strength. Whether
it will prove to be as good as less aged bodies when
opposed to genuine youth cannot be said till Boxing Day.
•When he had slugged in a very business-like manner with
four heavyweights and knocked the ball right out on Satur-
day last, he had his anvil brought into the ring and, with
Rudolf Unholz as blower, made horseshoes, in which he
framed photographs of himself. These souvenirs were
handed to the holders of certain tickets of admission.
* * * *■
Accounts of the Ketchell-Johnson fight are very
confusing. Ketchell is anxious for another go, and is
anything but cowed. He makes the astounding state-
ment that he held the negro too cheaply and was care-
less. If that is true it is the worst thing said about
Ketchell. A man who holds a bruiser like Johnson cheap
and is careless when meeting the world’s champion is
just a plain, downright idiot. On the other hands it is
said that Johnson before the scrap told the pressmen
that he was going to “play for the pictures for 10
rounds,” and then “cut loose” and out his man
in the 12th. And the worst of it is that he
did it. Said that during the first part of the fight he
could have knocked Ketchell out several times, but
deliberately refrained, and that once when he had
delivered a knock-down blow he caught the “ Michigan
Hurricane” and held him up. Sounds a fairly tall yarn,
but wonderful things happen to Hurricanes in the great
and glorious United States. The “gate” was far from
staggering. The fighters divided £3875, Johnson taking
£2519, and Ketchell £1356. The management got £2584.
Some all-fired Yankee cabled to the Mclntosh
recently suggesting that they should join forces, and
make sure of the Jeffries-Johnson scrap (if it ever come 8
off) by tendering: a purse of £16,000* The Mclntosh took
a day or two.to think it.over, and then decided to play a
lone hand, so Mac’s offer of £lO,OOO for England stands
as delivered, but he offers £15,000 for Australia. The
rush of pugs to this promised land, hinted at in a recent
cartoon ori this page, includes Johnny Summers, Freddie
Welsh (who, by the way, is a Taffy), Battling Nelson (the
Dane), and a Yankee named A 1 Leibman, who is probably
of sauerkraut extraction. Pugs run in all shapes nowa-
days.
+ ■**■*
When the Burns-Johnson scrap had passed
into history the Mclntosh said he had done with the
game for ever. People who knew him sniggered. The
Mclntosh could no more leave fighting alone than a
chicken can keep out of the drinking dish. He’s in it up
to the chin, and though writer dislikes putting on the
garb of the prophet, he is willing to wager one new hat,
best Australian make, that before 12 months have gone
the Mclntosh gets into his own ring and scraps before all
Israel.
• « • ■*
There is had news about Tahmmy Burns. He
is getting demoralised. Recently he went north, and
getting into bad company, was initiated into the vice of
pigeon-shooting. Writer would sooner hear of him taking
to absinthe or mint juleps. Pigeon-shooting is a low
pastime—a disreputable form of cruelty to inoffensive
birds, altogether unworthy of the man who put up such
a splendid fight against overwhelming odds at Sydney
Stadium on Boxing Day, 1908.
* * * *
The place in which you keep your horse, mule
or donkey is the stable. The building occupied by the
motor-car is the garage ; and the den in which the aero-
plane feeds is the hongar. A hongar has been erected on
the Victoria Park Racecourse, Sydney, and there Mr.
Colin Defries will stable, that is hongar, his Wright
bi-plane. The construction and testing of the machine
commenced last Monday. On December 4 the
actual tests for flight will begin, and the public
can roll up between 3 and 6 p.m. and watch
the same. Afternoon tea will be laid on, and
special arrangements made for the comfort of visitors,
but they must not expect to see any real flying. The
aviator has to find out a number of things on which his
life or death depends, and till these have been satisfac-
torily evolved, no flight will happen. This may take a
week or so, and not till some progress has been made will
the date of the first air excursion he definitely fixed.
Meanwhile it is announced that another flier, a mono-
plane of French extraction, by Bleriot out of Workshop,
will be imported very shortly—is on the way, in fact.
■* ' ■* *
The fifth round of Sydney first-grade cricket
opened rather drearily, low scores being the order of the
afternoon. The exceptions were Glebe, which put up 305
for nine wickets, and University, which made 265. The
shocking example of the crowd was Gordon, which had
made only 69 when the order of the sack was suddenly
conferred, chiefly through bowler C. Docker, who took
five wickets for five runs, and temporarily threw the
cricketing world off its axis. Burwood was the
opposing crowd, and at close of play it had
managed to accumulate only 85 for nine wickets.
Waverley, too, made a wretched showing against
Sydney, being dismissed for 88, while the Sydney
crowd put up 188 for the loss of seven wickets. Peter-
sham banged 164 off North Sydney, and North Shore had
accumulated 75 for seven wickets by way of a reply when
the stumps were drawn. Middle Harbor notched 04
against Paddington, and Paddington produced 147 as
rebutting evidence. Balmain, replying to University’s
265, had lost three wickets for 38 when the sun went down
upon its wrath.
Not a single century graced the afternoon’s
play. ■ The best scores were the 73 made by Gow for Pad-
dington, the 72 by Williams for University, 67 by Thomas
for Sydney, and 64 (not out) by Gorry for Glebe. But
what a time the bowlers did have : Docker, five wickets
for five ruris ;-Collins (Sydney), six for 36 ; Law (Peter-
sham), three for 19 ; Scott (also Petersham), three for 23 ;
Dowd'(Paddington), six for 47; Reed (Gordon), five for
45; Smith (Burwood), five for 51 ; and a crowd of others
too numerous to mention.
♦ * * *
The English selection committee that chose the
teams against the Australian XI. had a really bad time
after the failure of its crowd to recover the ashes. Shoals
of letters, most of them anonymous and all distinctly in-
sulting and hostile, rained in on the unfortunate selectors,
who were advised, in what the press describes as “ no
uncertain way,” to obtain remunerative employment.
The finish of the fourth round in Melbourne
pennant cricket last Saturday beheld some considerable
exercise with the bat. Scanned compiled 126 forColling-
wood against Northcote ; Ainslie made 111 not out for
St. Kilda against University; and Sewart, a remarkably
consistent performer, hit up 110 for Carlton against Mel-
bourne. As regards the matches themselves, East
Melbourne defeated Prahran by 67 runs ; and Carlton
walloped Melbourne by 114 runs. Richmond lost to North
Melbourne by a margin of 97 ; and University succumbed
to St. Kilda by 98 runs and six wickets to spare. The
match between Collingwood and Northcote ended in a
tie, each team aggregating 115 runs in the first innings.
Scannell’s century, by the way, occurred in ’Wood’s
second trial with the bat, and, so far as the result went,
was a feat of supererogation.
* m * *
The first inter-State cricket match of the season
was remarkable for quite a lot of things. It was the first
time for four years that S.A. had relied on local talent
only ; and the result was the biggest win it has ever
had. These facts point to an obvious moral, but with
Crawford on the water and O’Connor’s engagement as
coach renewed it won’t be accepted. And certainly the
Victorian XI. was weak. It missed Armstrong, Ransford,
McAlister, Laver and Carkeek more than S.A. missed
O’Connor and Whitty, The first day was a blank through
rain, and when Clem Hill won the toss it seemed a doubt-
ful blessing to have first knock. Still, he managed 176
(run out), in spite of a thumb that still feels last
January’s motor-smash on the Sydney trip. Gehrs
made 118. ' Next day Claxton added 88 and
Hewer 83 not out. Total 590, S.A.’s highest on
record. Victoria shaped horribly against the tricky stuff of
R. Rees, and lost five for 75. Hazlitt’s 82(not out), backed
by Warne and Spiers, brought up a decent total of 284.
Rees had five- fOr 88. Then came more rain, and when
play was ag-ain possible, wickets were three-a-penny;
Rees added five for 41 to his collection. The mournful
total was 97, and the margin was an innings and 209 runs
—another S. Aus. record. S.A. has the makings of a
useful team. Solly Hill, the youngest of Clem’s many
brothers, made a first appearance, and scored 18 in his
only knock.
“JeanSibi”: Agent, who ought to have his
brains perused, recently skated for 631 hr. continuously at
Albert Park (Vic.). Now another gent has challenged
the former to an endurance skate around the clock.
The challenger is said to be identical with
a hero who bashed a piano for an incredible
period in a suburban shop-window some time ago.
It was a bash apparently on an endless chain, and the
basher bashed till the sweat ran down the bashee’s legs,
and its scales were piled 6ft. high in the stricken vicinity.
Just when it looked as if the bash Would continue until
it was arrested under the Industrial Disputes Act, the
bashist dropped from the stool on to the place where his
brains would have been, barring accidents. I had hoped
he was out of the business, but apparently he isn’t.
■*■***
J. A. Harper, a Melbourne delegate to the Vic-
torian Football League, recently delivered a speech
which that body received with a pained expression and
dead silence. What made Harper’s remarks so un-
pleasant was that they were true, and the truth hurt.
He said it was useless for the League to deny that there
was rough, cowardly play. There was, and everybody
knew in ; furthermore, it would continue till the system
of appointing umpires was altered. At present the club
interest was paramount, and umpires who did their duty
fearlessly were soon without employment. No club would
have them. The migratory player was denounced as
the codlin moth and white ant of the game, and
most of them were really professional. Some of
the clubs were very cynical i'n their disregard
of the rules against professionalism, and would engage
anybody at a weekly wage provided he was worth engag-
ing. Owing to the apathy of the League the evil was
likely to grow. Another justifiable complaint was that
the League and its clubs got too much money.. Last
season the total gate at League matches was £15,000. He
proposed that the gate should be put into a common
fund, out of which each club would draw £BOO per year
for exes., and the rest, £7OOO, be donated to charity ;:and
he figured it out that the clubs would have plenty to go
on with in £BOO per annum.. The dislike the umpire has
worked up for himself is nothing compared to that
which Harper has erected.
A Victorian auto-cvclist named H.. Busteed
has designed and made for himself al4-h.p. twin-cylinder
motor-bike, which he says is capable of travelling 85
miles an hour. If he tries to travel at that pace on any
of the Australian tracks and roads—well,. H. 8.. will be
busted in fact as well as name.
Prince Alfred Yacht Club (Sydney) had a
mixed programme on Saturday last, running off a cham-
pionship handicap and a cruiser race. The championship
of the club is decided by three events, and this was the
first. The points are scored under metric measurement,
and the yacht with the highest total in the three events
takes the honors. So far all the yachts have not been
measured, so the event entails a certain amount of book-
keeping. Saturday’s race was a fine sight, the yachts
breaking away together on a flying start, with Magic and
Culwulla in the van. Then the tall Rawhiti shook out
its great wings and, rushing through the foam,
led the fleet to Manly under a cloud of bellying
spinnaker canvas. Just before reaching the Cove,
Aoma’s spinnaker blew out. Working to Shark Island,
Rawhiti got further in front, and Trebeck brought
the beautiful little Petrel, which is one of the
crack windward boats of Australasia, along with a
splendid rush into second place, with Sunbeam close
behind. Then the handicaps were adjusted and it was
found that Mr. Murray’s Magic was first, the tiny
Culwullasecond, and Sunbeam third. Magic beatCulwulla
by lmin. 6sec., and the others were divided by Jsec.,
which, take it all round, was a close thing. The cruiser
race was practically a struggle between Nanoya and
Caprice ; the other three merely' fighting for third place,
which was won by Herreshoff. Caprice led to Shark
Island, and there Nanoya, which was scratch boat, caught
up, and the struggle was practically over, although
there was only 34sec. between No. 1 cruiser and No. 2.
* * * *
Sydney Flying Squadron’s general handicap
provided some open boating, which is, after all, the most
interesting because the most hazardous form of sailing.
Zena, which has had bad luck of late, was treated to four
minutes’ start in the first heat and the final; and, getting
a suitable breeze and being handled with more than
ordinary skill, simply mopped up everything, romping
home iri the heat with 2min. 15sec. to spare. In the final
the struggle was more strenuous, the Nimrod putting up
a mighty hunt for the whole trip, and being beaten by
only 87sec. The results of the whole handicap show that
the gentleman who allocates the allowances has got his
job down to a fine art.
• « • •
The Motor-Boat Club of N.S.W. held an ocean
race on Saturday, from Cremorne (Port Jackson) to a
mark in Botany Bay and back to the starting point, a
distance of 36 miles. It was an excellently managed
affair. Each boat carried a lifebelt for every person on
board, an anchor weighing one pound for each foot of
launch, and 50 fathoms of two-inch rope. The handi-
caps were given-at the start, and as each launch was in
position 15 minutes before its time things went very
smoothly. Five started, and after an enjoyable race
Glengarry, with 20 minutes’ start, won comfortably from
Minumin, which left four minutes ahead of it. The third
place was filled by Mr. Hutcheson’s Hinemoa, which had
eight minutes’ start from scratch, and conceded its more
successful rivals 12 and 16 minutes respectively'.
* ■* * •
Sydney sculler Harry Pearce left for Fremantle
on Saturday by the Otranto to race G. Day over a course
of three miles on the Swan River during Yule-tide.
While some stakes were being paid over at a Sydney hotel
last week, four men in the room put up £lOO towards a
£250 stake for a match between H. Pearce and Arnst,
should the former again defeat Day. The idea is to
challenge Arnst for a race for £250, and leave it to Dick’s
own self whether he throws his championship on the
table or not. Presumably he won’t if he is not asked ;
but It is rather hard to imagine a man holding on to the
title after he has been beaten, whether he puts the dignity
on the table or not.
• * * •
The glory of the Austral Wheel Race has
departed. The race is to occur at the Melbourne Cricket
Ground next Saturday afternoon ; but it is to be a mere
side-line, as ballooning and aeroplaning top the bill. Still
it has attracted some 70 applicants, with Geo. Horder,
Harry Thomas, Gordon Walker and co. figuring on
scratch.
* ,* * *
A southerly breeze rushing against an ebb
tide chopped up the 2£ miles of Itrown water between
the Williamstown steam ferry and Footscray (Melb.), over
which seven crews contested the four-oared champion-
ship of Victoria. It was a wild mix-up, out of which, to-
wards the end. South Melbourne and Albert Park managed
to claw their way to the lead. So evenly did they pull
that the struggle resulted in a dead-heat, and the dead-
heaters will row over the same course next Saturday.
About a mam and his school :
Another Sydney University school—that of engineering
—comes along this year with its half-jubilee. The medi-
cal school is the glory of Stuart, and the engineering
school is the pride of Warren. The founder and present
Professor, William H. Warren, enjoys the rare distinction
of holding a University chair without ever having himself
taken a University degree or been a University student.
He had to go to work when about 14 ; but he attended
various science classes and picked up his knowledge
where he could, until he won the Whitworth scholarship,
the blue ribbon of that time. After that he did some big
engineering for the London and N.W. railway and in
Manchester, including a gas-works worth half a million,
and then came to Australia to pick up some mislaid
health. The Engineering School, which started in ’B4,
was plodding along, when the P. N. Russell bequest of
£50,000 gave it a tremendous shove forward, and it lately
got such another shove that a new school was built and
opened this year. Engineering students number about
100 and are known as “ greasers.” They cherish a pro-
found disrespect for their medical brothers (known as
“ butchers ”) ; hence periodic disturbances.
The Tasmanian Labor party is stirring up
that unfortunate speculation of Chief Justice
Dodds, described awhile ago in The Bulletin.
The Chief Justice, it may be remembered, bought
some land in the Branxholme district; but in a
few months a railway came along and took some
of it from him, and the Government even marked
out a station in the midst of his little lot. This
land had been worth three or four pounds an acre,
but the Chief Justice got £1730 for 30 acres. Tas-
mania has an Act providing that when land is
thus acquired it shall be paid for at the value it
had 12 months before the Act authorising the
work for which it is needed ; but somehow this
Act seems to have been overlooked. And now
when, after talking angrily about it for some time,
the Labor party brings the matter to a head and
moves for a Commission, so that the Chief Justice
may explain the hardship he has suffered, it is
found that the Chief Justice—probably tired of
waiting—has gone on a trip to Ceyjon, with a
probable extension to Java, Siam, and other in-
accessible places.-
The Hook’s Hill tragedy is said by Syd-
ney Evening News to be on all fours with the
Sussex-street tragedy of Judge Cheeke s day.
Gerlnch be the murderer of Frank Coleman, tne
only resemblances are in the coolness and met 10c
of the perpetrator of the deed. William-Henry
Scott, the Sussex-street butcher, killed a woman
whom he had represented as his wife, and stovvea
away parts of the body on the premises of several
people. He left a couple of legs from the kneels
down in a pub at the corner of Bathurst and
Sussex streets. Then he gathered up the rest or
the remains, pickled them well and started on
with them in a box for Darling Harbor.
box was heavy and otherwise objectionable,
and some boys that he got to help him
made remarks, and so he abandoned it. It
was on that case that Dr. Arthur Renwick
made bis first rise. The head and a few other
parts, much decomposed, were sent to the Benevo-
lent Asylum, which seems a curious place to send
a head and a few other parts. Dr. Renwick, then
in charge, reconstructed from the materials the
body of a woman,, and so fully inferred the figure,
age, complexion and other particulars that the
landlady of the house in which she had stayed
identified the composition. He also inferred
from the way the knife was used that the murderer
was a butcher.. The boys then came in with
their story, and though Scott offered alibis and
other animals the case was clear. Judge Cheeke
and the hangman did the rest.
Victoria would very much like to know
what it should do with its prize convict, nigger
King. King was, all his adult life, a criminal of
an unspeakable type. His specialty was robbery,
complicated by violent assaults on women.
Now he is a large, powerful, elderly wild
animal doing a sentence of 15 years, with
an indeterminate sentence to follow.. To all
intents and purposes he is in for life and some-
thing over. So he assaults fellow-prisoners and
warders indiscriminately, but never quite hard
enough to justify the law in hanging him.. It is
no use giving him extra sentences after these
doings; a man who has a life sentence doesn’t
care if he gets 1000 years’ extra. Solitary confine-
ment has been tried, and the warders sav that
the two occasions when King is most dangerous
and most murderous are: (1) When he has had
solitary confinement; (2) when he hasn’t. It is
impossible to send him to a lunatic asylum—it
would be too dangerous for the lunatics. Besides,
asylums are not so well fortified as gaols, and it is
impossible to face the risk of our dear colored
brother getting out. His record settles that.
Regarded as a person absolutely without a soul,
he might be sent to the Zoo; but in that ease he
would almost certainly murder the lion under
alarming circumstances and cripple the Polar
bear. Civilisation is right up against our colored
brother, and it has a feeling that it is getting the
worst of the game.
Ballina and thereabouts, on the North
(N.S.W.) Coast, recently provided copy for the
Lancet, the Bandage and other physicky pub-
lications. The region woke one morning to dis-
cover that all was not well with its children, and
sent like the Devil for the local doctor. He, find-
ing himself faced by an unusual sort of worry,
beckoned loudly to the Sydney Board of Health.
The Assistant Government Medical Officer, Dr.
Willis, promptly reinforced the local doctor ; but
so far the allied armies don’t seem to know too
much about the enemy they are dealing with.
“Infantile paralysis” was the diagnosis. The
luckless kiddies just became paralysed—and
that’s all that appears to be known definitely.
There were 16 cases at Ballina, four at
Broadwater and a few elsewhere. The acute
stages of the disease have now been weathered,
but some of the patients will probably be more or
less crippled for life. The doctors so far haven’t
been able to get a conviction, but they are look-
ing with suspicion on the usual criminal —Dirt.
Said the Health Department’s report: —
It must be noted that nearly all the premises in the
block at Ballina just referred to, and in its immediate
neighborhood, were in an insanitary state. The circum-
stances of these houses, with few exceptions, were found
to be precisely the circumstances in which acute infective
processes occur in man and animals.
And then the old, old story :
It will be observed that in the case of this council, as
in that of so many others, as soon as illness occurs appeal
is made to the Government, and nothing at all is done by
way of prevention beforehand.
It really looks as if it will yet be necessary to
cremate a few of these insanitary municipal
councils by way of discouraging the others.


The Tory conceives some remarkable
objections to the Victorian land-tax proposals.
One brilliant mind foresees Melbourne of the
future consisting of high buildings on small blocks
of land, if the large estates are burst up. “ Pipe
stem” buildings they are called by the weirdly
imaginative person. Apparently it hasn’t
occurred to him that we may produce a pipe-
stem people if the land monopolist is allowed
to go on squeezing the population and preventing
them having enough land to spread themselves
out on. And pipe-stem people might be worse
than even pipe-stem buildings.
A London chorus-girl went into a registry-
office somewhere in the Fog, lately, and, in
company with a nigger, changed her name from
Parnell to Mrs. Nasir Ali Khan. The inducement
was £20,000 worth of jewels—which will probably
be taken from her as soon as she arrives at her
black half’s, ancestral selection in the Indian back-
blocks. A week or so ago the high-kicking lady
was of no particular oonsequence to the Caucasian
at large, and of no consequence at all to the Indian
Government. By mating with the colored person
she has become a calamity to the whole white race,
and an absolute nightmare to the worried army of
Britishers who are trying to keep the Indian
hordes in order and shield the person of the Vice-
roy from the frequent and unpleasant bomb. The
immense Indian Civil Service and the inadequate
Indian army is gradually losing its grip over the
Indian Empire ; the native no longer regards the
Sahib as a sort of demi-god. And when cheap
white women drift casually into the households of
his chiefs, his respect for the white conquerors
slides further down towards Perdition. In the
near future, the silly chorus-woman who is willing
to go anywhere with anything for a string of
pearls will have to be prohibited from landing in
India if British supremacy is to continue.
Missing Friends.
MR. TRITSMANN, please oommunicate at
once with
F. E. VIETJSSEUX,
“ Otipua,” Carey Street, Marrickville.
HERBERT WHITE, last heard of at Kalamia
Estate, via Ayr, lower Burdekin, Queens-
land, Australia, August 24, 1908. Anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communicate
with his mother, Mrs. EMILY BIBLE, 422
Parliament Street, Toronto, Canada, or his sister,
Mrs. STOREY, 125 Spence Street, Toronto,
Canada. Mother ill and very anxious.
BENSON JOHN.
LAST heard of at Monawai Leases, West
Australian Gold Fields, 1900. If living,
communicate with undersigned, when you will
hear of something to your advantage. If dead,
anyone knowing of death communicate with
F. LYNNE ROLIN, Solicitor,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FRAMPTON (JOHN ANDREWS).
HIS Sister, who last heard from him in 3889,
has died in England. Information as to
whether he is living or dead is required by j
Messrs. Lovell, Son and Pitfield,
3 Grays Inn Square, London,
England, Solicitors,
who should be communicated with at once.
Legal Notices.
INTESTATE ESTATE of MARGARET BROWN fori
1 merly CARROLL late of Annandale near Sydney
widow deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given to JOHN CARROLL son of
PATRICK and CATHERINE CARROLL formerly of
County Wexford Ireland who was last heard of about 45
years ago when he was in the Hunter River district that
he is (if living) or (if dead) his children are entitled to one-
third share of the above-named deceased’s estate which is
being administered by the undersigned and that he or
his children must come in and prove his or their identity
as next of kin of the above-named deceased on or before
the 20th day of April 1910 otherwise an application will
be made to the Supreme Court in its Probate Jurisdiction
for an order declaring that the said JQHN CARROLL be
presumed to have died unmarried before the said
MARGARET BROWN deceased.
The undersigned will be pleased to receive information
from any person regarding the whereabouts of the said
JOHN CARROLL,
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates, Sydney.
JL
a
t
FOR
GUNS
WCTUU.I
m
i~jar
Prevents Rust on
Guns and Wheels
Will prevent rust and tarnish in any kind of
weather and in any climate. Use before and after
ride or hunt. It is a water white oil that also lu-
bricates delicate mechanisms better than any other
lubricants you have ever used. It is cheaper too*
Write for free sample to
REID & REID (Dept. A J. Australasian
Representatives—Wellington, New Zealand.
Amusements.
CUYING FORTNIGHT at the VICTORIA
* PARK RACECOURSE, ZETLAND.
THE WILBUR WRIGHT
AEROPLANE IN ACTION.
TRIAL FLIGHTS OF THE WRIGHT
AEROPLANE
Starting SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 4.
These being- preparatory trials, the Aviator gives no
absolute assurance of a Flight on any particular day,
but it is more than possible that the public attending
on Saturday next, or any subsequent day, will witness
the FIRST FLIGHT in the Southern Hemisphere of
a HEAVIER-THAN-AIR Machine.
PRICE TO THE TRIAL FLIGHTS, Cf / n
admitting to the Grandstand Enclosure,
WATCH ANNOUNCEMENT.
FIRST PUBLIC FLIGHT.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Last Two Nights of SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 4,
TRIUMPH OF “ AUSTRALIA’S IDOL,”
NELLIE STEWART,
in
ZAZA.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices as Usual.
Amusements.
'HE STADIUM, RUSHCUTTER’S BAY.
TRAINING EXHIBITIONS
EVERY MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY and
SATURDAY by
808 FITZSIMMONS,
reight and Middleweight Chi
World, and
BILL LANG,
Light-Heavyweight and Middleweight Champion .of the
World, and
Champion of Australia.
808 FITZSIMMONS will appear every Wednesday and
Saturday, and will box with four of the leading
Australian heavyweights.
Bill Lang will box all-comers on Mondays and Thursdays.
ADMISSION—2s. and Is.
E. COVELL, Governing Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Musical Comedy,
HAVANA.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors : Clydn Mkynell and John Gunn.
' LAST NIGHTS OF
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 2, for FOUR NIGHTS ONLY,
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.
TUESDAY, DEC. 7, WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON and
EVENING, DEC. 8, JULIUS G®SAR.
Plan, Elvy’s. Day Sale, White Rose.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : GEORGE MARLOW.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE HEART OF A HERO.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 4,
Presentation for the First Time in Australasia of Ben
Landeck’s Military and Domestic Story,
THE WIiDDING RING.
POPULAR PRICES : 35., 25., Is. Box Plan on view at
ELVY’S, Reserved Seats, 4s. Day Sale at White Rose
Confectionery. Early Doors to all parts, 6d. extra.
•pHE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION— 2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s fid.
DNEY GLACIARIUM.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
S Y
Nightly at 8; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30,
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & fid. Popular Prices, fid, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
DIJOU PICTURE PALACE
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY, I
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE. '
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
MDLLE. DE DIO, Incomparable Dancer.
GRAHAM 1 & DENT, Popular Sketch Artists.
THREE TRAPNELL SISTERS & BROTHER GEORGE.
FRED CURRAN. DOLLY HARMER.
BERTHA STUART. MISS FANNY POWERS.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS, and AUSTRALIA’S
LITTLE TICH.
MR. IRVING SAYLES. MR. FRED BLUETT.
PRICES—3&, 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
I P E R A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
HASSAN, Indian Magician.
POST MASON, Baritone.
BERT TERRELL, Comedian and Dancer.
KREMKA BROS., Comedy Acrobats.
HARRY MARTE, Intricate Dancer.
PHILLIS SYDNA, Mezzo Soprano.
FRANKO PIPER, Banjo Expert,
n at Allan’s. ,t3T PRICES—3s,
Is.
*|-HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager—William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 4,
WALTER BENTLEY, Famous Tragedian,
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN, Talented
Australian Actress, in
H A M L E T.
A SPECIALLY SELECTED SHAKSPE ARIAN CO.
Popular Prices —35., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE'
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
MR. J. 0. WILLIAMSON
has pleasure in announcing
THE DELIGHTFUL COMEDY OPERA,
THE LADY DANDIES.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
Messrs. MEYNELL & GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
THE BELLE OE MAYEAIB.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
GLACIARIUM,
Lessees
MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
J.iN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
the Finest in austkalia.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
QUEST'S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
»» THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES ; THE op* all.
NIGHTLY AT 8. .
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices—l/6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-.
Box Plan at Glen's.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C. 1/-
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT
MEANS
Greater Power on Hills
AND
More Miles per Gallon.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAEJLT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR*
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
|/each post free 1/2
1 Quality Not Better
I in a
I Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS * TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It-
by Prof. W. J. Pikrce.
Something' every raptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
Write for Catalogue, mentioning
this paper.
AN HONEST MAN
is ONE of the few great works that can be seen for nothing.
THE B. and B. MODEL 3
is an honestly constructed cycle that can be seen every day
at 234 Pitt Street. Fitted with first-class £I I
tyres and guaranteed a year, «» 11 ■
Our Pitt Street Depot is open every Friday till 9 p.m.
I BENNETT & DARK ELL,
Specialists in Modern
Cycle Building-,
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
1
St*
Bi
ANDREW McGEE” -
What an excellent Gift this Pipe would make. It’s a Parling-! Hand-cut vul-
canite pijsh stem, Silver mounted, natty shape, finished in London style,
bent and straight stem. It costs only 6/6, posted 6/9. Write for Xmas Illus-
trated Gift Polder. It’s free. It will help you to solve the Gift problem.
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist
and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
cr. Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Saloon open all day Wednesday.
m
<2,
r
*1
<3
3
/
%
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
397 GEORGE STREET.
Hotelkeepers! Storekeepers! Confectioners!
Make your own AERATED WATERS
m
Price, £lB
and up.
Cash or Terms.
WITH AN
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to any others. Catalog ues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS :
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents:
ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Xshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6tl. PACKET CF TEN, sd.


Aggregate Balance Sheet of THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, soth s f 9 p 0 T 9 EMBER
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation ..£1,001,334 0 0
Deposits,'’'Accrued In-
terest and Rebate .. 27,765,277 15 8
£28,766,611 15 81
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amounts at Credit of In-
vestments Fluctuation Account,
Officers’ Fidelity Guarantee and Pro-
vident. Fund and the Buckland Fund) 3,965,804 13 4
Paid-up Capital.. ..£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,650,000 0 0 i
Profit and Loss .. .. 220,704 10 7
—— 4,370,704 10 7
£37,103,120 19 7
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra .. 1,077,963 2 0
£35,151,084 1 7
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances .. ..£7,915,306 8 8
Queensland Government
Notes .. .. .. 145,942 0 0
Notes of other Banks .. 0 0
Money at short call in
London 2,140,000 0 0
Investments —
British and Colonial
Government Secur-
ities 2,591,060 7 0
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 152,464 211
Due by other Banks .. 81,955 3 10
Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit .. 2,333,060 19 6
£15,383,529 1 11
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Ad-
vances to Customers .. .. .. 21,012,091 17 8
Bank Premises 707,500 0 0
£37,103,120 19 7
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit, as per Contra .. 1,077,963 2 0
£38,181,084 1 7
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, 3Qth SEPTEMBER, 1909.
Cr.
Balance proposed to b.> dealt with as follows :
To Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum £125,000 0 0
~ Augmentation of the Reserve Fund .. 50,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward 45,704 10 7
£220,704 10 7
By Amount from last Account .. ..£38,842 3 2
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits, after de-
ducting Rebate on Current Bills,
Interest on Deposits, paying Note and
other Taxes, reducing valuation of
Bank Premises, providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and fluctuations in the
value of Investment Securities, and in-
cluding Recoveries from Debts previ-
ously written off as bad 182,362 7 5
£220,704 10 7
Dr.
RESERVE FUND, 3Qth SEPTEMBER. 1909.
Cr.
To Bdance £1,700,000 0 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested in
British Government Securities, and
the balance is employed in the busi-
ness of the Bank.)
£1,700,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
By Balance .. £1,650,000 0
~ Amount from Profit and Loss.. .. 50,000 0
£1,700,000 0
By Balance .. .. .. .. ..£1,700,000 0
0
0
0
0
HARRINGTON PALMER,
S. E. LAIDLEY,
Auditors.
STEVENS FIREARMS
THE WORLD’S STANDARD.
Our
POPULAR PRICED RIFLES
are notable for their ACCU-
RACY, RELIABILITY and
LASTING QUALITIES.
STEVENS FIGHTING LINE.
Our Demi-Bloc and Repeating Shotguns are “Superb for Trap and Field/'
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Insist on our make.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [7
Damp Course
CONGO DAMP COURSE is a dense, tough, waterproof fabric that is immune from
damage by wet-rot, dampness, vermin, white ants or earth gases. It is used on the
foundations of buildings to exclude damp from the walls and cellar floors. It can be
used with perfect satisfaction in actual contact with the earth.
Made in seven sizes to suit various conditions of application. Skilled labor not needed
to apply it. Sample free on request,
CONGO ROOFING, an easy-to-lay, low-priced roofing, that lasts XOyears. Sample free.
G. C. Delmar, Sydney, N. S, W., Australasian Representative for "Congo”
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) Ltd., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CINEMATOGRAPH SUPPLIES.
Repair neatly and
accurately finished.
We are Australia’s Leading Supply House.
Half-a-Mill ion Feet of
Films always on hand.
All specially-selected subjects—many
local—many just arrived—all in good
condition—by all the famous makers,
including
FAT HE FRERE FILMS
from 4d. per Foot.
In addition, we sell and hire machines,
duplicate parts, accessories, etc., and
have competent operators always ready
for emergencies.
JORDAN'S
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
CINEMATOGRAPH SPECIALISTS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
I'm i
k VW
VUW
The Advantage
of the Gillette Blade
is the ease and rapidity with which it enables you to shave.
Simply hold the handle in shaving position and the curved
blade makes the proper angle for shaving. There is no
difficulty; you cannot go wrong; you cannot cut
your face.
The Gillette Safety Razor not only makes shaving easy, it
ensures a clean, close shave, no matter how tough the beard or
tender the skin. Moreover, no stropping nor honing are
required.
ALWAYS READY. NOTHING TO ADJUST, HAS NO DANGERS.
ALWAYS KEEN. NOTHING TO LEARN. LASTS A LIFETIME
NO STROPPING. NO HONING
Safety
Razor
USE GILLETTE SHAVING SOAP*
A Soap worthy of the Gillette Safety Razor.
For sale at all first-class dealers.
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., 17 Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
ure
So many wonderful cures stand to the credit of the Sherman treatment
that it can reasonably be styled a certain cure. All ages and both sexes
have been relieved from the torture of hernia, and if YOU have been suffering
it will be well to follow in the wake of those who have had life made a pleasure
by the
Dr. J. A. Sherman Method.
Note this extract from a letter written by a Sydney lady who suffered from
rupture for 17 years, and tried in vain all sorts of treatments r ■
Mr. A. W. MARTIN.
Pear Sir,—From the very first day I started your treat-
ment I had relief, and before six weeks had passed the tissues
were healing, and in less than three months I was so well that
I accompanied my husband on an eight-mile tramp across
hilly roads. I have steadily gained weight, and am now the
picture of health. (Name supplied on request.)
Consultations are free, and we earnestly invite you to see into the merits of
this wonderful method. It does away with the torturing truss, and involves no
detention from business during the treatment.
HOURS Daily (Sundays excepted), 10 a.m. to 12 noon ; 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturdays, 10 a.in. to 12 noon. Extra hours : Friday evenings, 7to 9.
If you cannot call,' seiid at once for two books containing details and
proof of the Sherman Method.
A VC A U Sole Controller of the Dr. J. A.
• W • JTA/m.AV. A Ail> SHERMAN METHOD,
Dept. B, Gibbs’ Chambers, 7 MOORE STREET, near the G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A HAPPY LITTLE SHAVER
is the PLUM—better than all the freakish “safeties ”
and “ fresh blades for every day in the week.”
A sterling Razor with a pure silver-steel blade that
is supplied to you ready foi- use, and which we guaran-
tee and keep in order free of charge for two years.
Price 10/6.
Post free to
any address.
- ' *•- -? •
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plnmßazor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
(Drawn from photo)
" Ths Champion”
the only iiiachi*e on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
fiyp vears.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of exoense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and'distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive iti We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for oue of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO--AUSTRAUAN IMPORTING CO., OPP.0 PP . G.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.


mi
No. 1 BROWNIE CAMERA takes admirable pictures measuring 2% in. x
lt has a capacity of six exposures, weighs only Boz. , and is very well
made. It is not a mere toy, but a Camera fitted for practical work.
Price, ss. Postage, 6d.
The No. 2 BROWNIE CAMERA is equipped with two finders, and
covered with a fine quality imitation leather. The pictures measure 2Xin. x
3/^in., and it has a capacity of six exposures. The lens is a Meniscus, the
shutter an Eastman rotary, and the price only lOs. Postage, 9d. extra.
The No. 2a BROWNIE CAMERA takes pictures measuring
x and is excellent for landscape compositions. When used vertically it
takes splendid full-length portraits. It is fitted with a' Meniscus Achromatic lens,
an Eastman rotary shutter, has a capacity of 12 exposures, and weighs only 2ioz.
Price, 12s. Od. Postage, 9d. extra.
Buy a Brownie
for Christmas!
The Brownie story of Summer days grows in charm as
the months go by—it’s always interesting —it’s personal—it
tells of the places, the people and the incidents from your
point of view—just as you saw them.
And it’s an easy story to record, for the Brownie works
at the bidding of the merest novice. There is no dark room
for any part of the work —it’s all simple.
A New Brownie.
The No. 3a FOLDING BROWNIE is a recent innovation—one
which will be very popular indeed. Its pictures measure x (the
popular postcard size), and it is beautifully fitted and finished.
It takes the Kodak Roll Film for ten, s)x or four exposures ; has a simple
and effective automatic focussing device, an everset shutter with bulb and trigger
release, a reversible finder, Iris diaphragm and first-class single or rapid
rectilinear lens.
It is indeed a splendid instrument, and you will do well to invest in
one for Christmas —and after.
Price, with Single Lens - - - £2 2s.
Price, with Rapid Rectilinear Lens - £2 lOs.
Tlxe No. 3 FOLDING BROWNIE is of similar model, but takes
Price, with Single.. Lens - - - £1 17s. Od.
Price, with Rapid Rectilinear Lens - £2 Os.
WRITE
FOR THE COMPLETE CATALOGUE, IF YOU CANNOT CALL.
Baker Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
Sole Agents for Australian Kodak Ltd.,
379 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
No. GB9l9—Best Quality Silverplated Flower
Stand, £3.
S 3
m
No. G 855 Quality Silverplated Chased Cake
Basket, Special Value, £l/10/-
No. J292—Best Quality Silverplate.
Our own special design, at the . ,
Manufacturers’Price, £2/2/- ; '
THE true value at which we buy, the economic conditions under which we work, the
amplitude of our resources, and our determination to give customers the benefit of
every advantage our system places at our command, enables us to guarantee the
quality and value of every article, We do not deal in sham goods, or artificialities of any
description. Even our lowest-priced goods are of sound and genuine quality —just what
they are represented to be in material, make and finish.
We have three Illustrated Catalogues —one dealing solely with Watches, one specially
for all designs of Rings, and the other is our large general 112 page. Either, or all of
them, can be had free on application, or will be sent to any address.
No. G4o67—Best Quality Silverplated
Cake Fork, 2/- each.
No. E2234—Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 3/6 ; Silverplated, 1/-
No. 358 A—Best Quality
Silverplated, Chased,
Sugar Basket, £l/7/6.
No. G3sso—Best Quality Silverplated Chased Sugar, Cream and Cake
or Fruit Stand. jFB/10/.
No. Fs63—Best Quality Silver-
plated Engraved Sugar Scuttle
and Seoop, £l/2/6.
No. B499o—Best Quality Silverplated Revolvin
Vegetable Dish. Each Dish can he removed
and used separately, £6/6/-
No. 388 —Silverplated Jam Spoon, 3/*
Butter Knife to match, G/-
No. Glsol— Pearl Handle Solid Silver
Tea Strainer, 10/6.
No. F6s27— The “Kins: James ” Afternoon Tea
Service, with Tray, Silverplated on
Nickel Silver, £5.
No. F6l4o— Silverplated Butter Knife, 3/-
No. HBs2—Best. Quality Silverplated Flower
Stand, £2/15/-
No. G67l4—Silverplate on 1 Nickel■■ Silver
Vegetable Dish, Two Divisions, £l/17/6.
No. J3l4—Best Quality Silverplated
Hot Water Kettle, with Spirit
Lamp, £2/15/-


Rexona, the Rapid Healey.
“My little boy’s legs and arms were covered
with sores,” writes Mrs. L. Blair, Macquarrie
Street, Newcastle, N.S.W., “and nothing would
heal them. Hearing of Rexona, I gave it a trial,
and it cured every sore wonderfully quickly.”
Brice Is. 6d. and 3s.*
When you feel constipated take Chamber-
lain’s Tablets; they produce a pleasant movement
or the bowels,*
When you feel out of .sorts take Chamber-
lain’s Tablets; they brace up the nerves and
invigorate the whole system.*
It will always be well
to remember that of all the duties
which we owe to ourselves for health
and comfort’s sake, the proper care of
the teeth is one of the most important.
One should realise —and recent
investigations have proved it again
and again—that the condition of the
teeth has far more influence upon our
ft#
general well-
being than
most of us
suppose.
The pro-
tectio n
of the
teeth,
however,
can only be
considered
as sufficient
when the tooth-destroying substances
which are the causes of fermentation
and decomposition, and which renew
themselves in the mouth daily, are also
daily destroyed.
As everyone must acknowledge
after a little reflection, a special care
is needed to keep the mouth free from
these harmful substances.
To a certain extent the tooth-brush
will be useful for the removal of the
impurities from the teeth, but only to a
certain extent, as with the brush the
surface alone of the teeth can be
reached. But as the injurious bac-
teria are located everywhere —in the
mucous membrane of the mouth and
especially in the corners and folds
where the brush cannot reach —one
must use besides the tooth-brush, the
liquid and antiseptic dentifrice Odol,
which penetrates into the most hidden
places of the mouth 4nd destroys all
harmful bacteria'.
It is in its unique properties that
Odol especially excels all other mouth-
cleansing preparations. After the
m
mouth has been rinsed with Odol its
active antiseptic principle spreads
itself with all-pervading effect over
the entire oral cavity, the microscopi-
cally minute antiseptic element main-
taining its influence for hours.
It is this lasting effect, this precious
and transcendent quality which no
other dentifrice or mouthwash posses-
ses, that gives to daily users of Odol
the absolute assurance that their
mouths are permanently protected
against the processes of fermentation
and decomposition, which, if not
guarded against, inevitably destroy
the teeth.
CHRISTMAS
PRESENTS.
Our Book of Christmas Presents
will be sent to you if you give us
your address.
It is a well-arranged book that
will save you thought and money.
Saving Customers’ worry is a
speciality of ours.
We make up —
5/- Parcels of Toys
10/- Parcels of Toys
20/- Parcels of Toys
which always give satisfaction.
When ordering parcels to be
selected by us, give the ages and
sexes of children for whom you wish
the present. We’ll do the rest.
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
Far North.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
ANEW land, vast and splendid,
Calls from the jungle deep,
By scanty sons defended,
Where blood woods vigil keep.
The streams are ever flowing,
And green the grass is glowing ;
The horns of spring are blowing
To wake the world from sleep.
The time is done for dreaming
In Lotus-land content.
The sun’s bright swords are gleaming,
And battle runes are blent
With joyful carols scorning
Sloth, and new hopes adorning
The message of the morning
Rings through the continent.
Titanic toils and dangers
Beset the pioneer.
The march of yellow strangers
Comes in no distant year.
But where her bright eye glances
She sings of happy chances,
New sagas and romances
And ballads of good cheer.
Her outlook frank and free is
As is her splendid sky ;
Unshackled as her sea is,
She faces Destiny
And sees, though Europe crashes
(The Past is dust and ashes),
Where the vast Future flashes
Lightning of liberty.
She is a land of beauty,
From earth to skyey lawn.
Straight runs her path of duty
From other lands withdrawn.
While many peopled races
Passed, with their myriad faces,
Rose, fell, and lost their places,
She held the forts of Dawn.
She has no saga stories,
Legends, or lays divine.
She boasts no battle glories
That thrill the veins like wine,
The Legend of the Ages,
Of heroes, bards and sages,
Upon her virgin pages
Has writ not half a line.
She raised no Roman legions,
She planned no stratagem
To hold her vassal regions
An Empire’s diadem.
No Persian pride she shattered ;
No Plato’s words she scattered ;
No idols dark she battered,
Nor saved Jerusalem.
No subtle Asian magic
Through her young being ran,
And Europe’s annals tragic
Stained not her destined plan.
America, emphatic,
Athletic, democratic,
She knew not —nor the vatic
Dark jungles African.
Only across the distance
She hears the strange birds’ clang
That, with the same persistence,
Through the first forest sang.
And, when the ’roos are homing,
Still, stealthy through the gloaming,
Primeval man goes roaming
With spear and boomerang.
The scroll of Fate is dusty
With empires lost and won.
Time’s crumbling sheet grows musty
With deeds done and undone.
In ancient isolation
This North, a lonely station,
Paid tribute and oblation
But to the rising sun.
She fears no Theban riddles
Nor doom Fate’s Sphinx may bring.
Winds scrape her forest fiddles,
And gaily galahs sing.
She is no slave to sorrow,
Nor load of care must borrow
From yesterday. To-morrow
Is her first day of Spring.
The Northern Land is seething
With wonder through and through ;
And here is space for breathing,
And here are, sights to view,
And here are blows for striking,
Strong, stark strokes to the liking
Of Saxon, Kelt and Viking—
Yea, here is work to do.
A Queensland mob is crossing
Her pastures rich and wide ;
The pearling boats are tossing
Upon the Torres tide.
With axe and crosscut slashing
The splitters now are gashing
Blood woods that tumble crashing
Upon the mountain-side.
Wild cattle scent the grasses,
And drovers’ stockwhips crack ;
A camel-driver passes
Dust-stained, the lonely track.
And far from farm and clearing,
Light-hearted for the shearing,
The nomad boys are nearing
The station sheds out-back.
And North, the New Pacific
Lies open to man’s sight,
When Asian hordes prolific
Rise, challenging the right
To hold, with stern endeavor
The Land of Never Never,
As Greece was held, and sever
The brown man from the white.
No city clocks importune,
Nor Custom jolts and jars.
And man may seek his fortune,
Nor stop for bolts and bars.
Although this land is eerie,
The Southern world is dreary,
And men, of commerce weary,
Seek stranger, brighter stars.
They see. the Past despising,
With forward-gazing eyes
An Age of Freedom rising
That in the Future lies.
Though in the ocean olden
The sun sets, glorious, golden,
And on night’s breast is folden—
More splendid suns shall rise.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 27, 1909.
Mr Dear Thargomindah,—
After all, the Macgregor laird is to hang up his
hat temporarily in the old Government shanty.
The only occurrence that is likely to disturb him
this side of Christmas will bo the official nailing
to the wall of a certain tablet on the great day
(December 10), which tablet will set forth that the
house is the Queensland University (which it
won’t be till some future date). When that is
done, and the nails have been driven by sundry
classic personages, including your Professor David
(who will endeavor to keep us cool while he is
here by discourses upon the Antarctic Pole), the
gubernatorial people will be allowed to settle
themselves down for a bit till they are due to be
shot out into the cold world again.
The loyal address which the Caledonian Society
has arranged to give the new Ex. is quite the
most beautiful thing of its kind that I have ever
lit upon. It is about nine pages thick, and after
an ornate frontispiece, the word “Welcome”
is worked in, a letter at a time, in the Macgregbr
tartan. But why did the Caledonians choose a
view of a tombstone as the illustration for the last
page?
The coal trouble, although nominally not at
home in these parts, is not far from the surface,
and it only needs a match to the fuse to set her
going. The piling of a very large amount of coal
upon the deck of a turret vessel is now well worth
the watching, and if that material for the produc-
tion of heat is cast loose anywhere within several
miles of the Commonwealth shores, several other
specimens of heat will be engendered upon the
spot.
I hear that the engagement of a very fair lady
and a kindred soul is getting worn thin at the
edges, and may tear away at any moment.
THE RETORT OF ITALY.
NEWSBOY : “Hey, Dago, where's da monkey ?”
DAGO: “He sella da papar e!”
A son of the Abercrombie clan is about to com-
mit himself to untold responsibilities under: the
cover of tulle and orange blossoms.
A pal, who ought to be ashamed of the sinful
hours he keeps, sends me the following account of
a local Darktown fire brigade
The other evening, to the sound of the wild and un*
melodious ringing of the local firebell, the residents of
one of our principal suburbs hurried to the scene
of a small conflagration. The fire was not a large
one, neither was the fire brigade. The latter’s reel
arrived at a slow canter, accompanied by half a dozen
volunteer firemen, a corresponding number of
assorted yells and 1000 ft. of hose. A search for the
fire-plug revealed the fact that none was discoverable
nearer than a quarter of a mile away. To this the hose
was coupled, whilst four firemen directed the nozzle at
the flames. One minute passed, two, and, although cries
of “ water” were heard some distance up the road, none
reached the nozzle, A hasty search discovered a large
black dog in the act of flea-ing himself while casually
sitting on the hose and stopping the flow. The obstacle
having been removed, the water continued its trickling
course, the hose swelled, the hundreds assembled sighed
relievedly—-and the water stopped short within a foot of
the nozzle.
Meanwhile the next-door neighbor had brought his
garden hose into action, and the Boy Scouts, of whom
half a dozen had appeared at the first alarm, formed a
bucket gang. .Still the v’ater for the fire hose came not.
The neighbor with the garden hose was appealed to in
the interests of the fire hose, and a small boy having been
reprimanded and stopped from drinking from a neighbor-
ing tap, sufficient force was developed to drive the water
a full 18 inches beyond the nozzle on to the fast-dying
embers of what was once a flourishing lolly-shop business.
There is joy in the tents of Feez (doesn’t that
sound nice and Turkish !). Arthur of that clan
has “taken silk.” This doesn’t mean that he
robbed a drapery ; it is a kind of legal promotion
which seems to prove somewhat of an obstacle to
the earning of a living, so many restrictions does
MAN’S INHUMANITY TO MAN.
DOCTOR: “ Fiddle-de-dee! There’s nothing in the
world the matter with you. All you want is
exercise. A great hulking fellow like you
should he up at ten o’clock every morning
picking violets."
the “honor” carry. Arthur Feez, however,
doesn’t want for the ordinary fleshpots, and can
well afford to sit in silken ease after many years
of strenuous toil. He is a native of Rockhampton
and a King’s scholar and Sydney University man.
There has hardly been a serious Supreme Court
struggle during the last decade which was not
• illuminated by the biting wit of the new K.C.
Mrs. Herschfeld, the wife of the Imperial
German Consul here, and her chicks go Mel-
bournewards on Saturday next on a visit to her
folks in that city.
The very new member for Fort Curtis, Breslin
by name, lately discovered a horse’s nest on the
banks of Baffle Creek (which, by the way, is a
river about the size of the Thames). He gravely
informed the House the other day that about 20
German settlers, lured from their customary diet
of sausage and sauerkraut, were starving on Baffle’s
unhospitable shore. This troubled the Courier
so profoundly that it sent its starvation expert put
in hot haste. But he came back to town in about
a week greatly fattened with wild turkey and
duck, eked out with fish and Frankfort sausage.
He has been dieting ever since. When not
engaged in heavy feeding, the starving ones have
scattered a little maize upon the hard, unchari-
table soil, with the result that a small steamer
lately visited the settlement and took away about
000 bags of grain. Another shipment will be
sent soon. The farms have been paid for, and
the Germans are buying enlarged waistcoats.
There was quite a fashionable foregathering at
the Girls’ High School on Friday evening, when
a collection of well-gilt infants combined to raise
money for their sick fellows. Mrs. Mason,
A.R.A.M., had the arrangements in hand, and
several of the young voices’ she presented were
well worth the silver coin demanded.
The sorrows of a lady upon a liner have been
the subject of afternoon-tea discourse this week.
The ship in question is an over-sea visitor which
has gained an unpleasant reputation for light-
fingeredness. Our friend got on board last trip
along with her family jewels, and did not discover
the danger to her belongings until well upon the
way. When the truth leaked out she clutched
her keys ,to her bosom, and suspected everyone
from the captain downwards. Wait, though—
she made one exception, and that was the fifth
officer. When sickness overtook her near the
line she sent word along to this monument of
integrity and murmured in his ear, “ You are an
honest man. Take these keys and ” (lowering her
voice to a whisper) “ bring me two of everything.”
But there is no documentary evidence to show
whether or no his courage failed him.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Barrister Arthur Feez, of Brisbane, who
has “ taken.silk,” is the only K.C. pursuing Costs
at the Queensland Bar. Northern wearers of
horsehair have never worried themselves much
about.exchanging their stuff gowns. Of the five
Supreme Court Justices only Chubb is a K.C.,
and Rutledge is the only one of the four District
Court Judges with the tail to his name.
As Dave Bowman's health isn’t good
enough for the racket of Labor leadership in a
State Parliament where bickering is eternal, there
is a movement up North to shift him into a
Federal seat. When he hears it, Foxton will feel
as though he had iced toads running down his
back. For Foxton knows what seat Bowman
would be run for.
Another alleged Crimean veteran (what
an army there must have been at that heated and
polyglot argument !), one Sydney Stanley, was
called off recently at The Oaks, North Queens-
land. He was 84 when he decided that it was a
fair thing. Stanley has been for many years
battling for a damper on the Etheridge mining
fields. As a naval hand he was present at the
bombardment of Sebastopol. While things were
humming, Stanley used to sav, he picked up a
live shell which had fallen on the deck of his ship
and cast it overboard, where it exploded. For
this he received “three ap’orth of bronze,” in the
shape of a Y.C., but the name of Stanley does not
appear in the list of the owners of the goods afore-
mentioned.
“ Flam ” : A gentle little measure touch-
ing police jurisdiction is before the Queensland
Assembly, and will cause quite a flutter presently.
This little Bill proposes to wipe Sunday news-
papers off the face of the e.arth ; to utterly abolish
every variety of betting-shop ; also to exterminate
two-up and almost every other kind of gambling
villainy. The churches and temperance people
have long been clamoring for drastic reform of the
licensing laws. But Quinlan, Grey and Co. (lead-
ing brewers), Walter Reid and Co. (leading wine
and spirit merchants), and Burns, Philp and Co.
(ditto), are all solidly supporting the present Gov-
ernment. Wherefore real Liquor Reform mustn’t
take place. Nevertheless Little Bethel must have
its sop. So Bung escapes, while the bookie and a
few others are scragged in the most public manner
possible.


QUEENSLAND HARDWOODS LEAD THE
WORLD.
The Forestry Department of Queensland takes
the utmost pains to draw a correct balance between
the development of the timber industry, the en-
couragement of the capitalist and the timber-getter,
and the proper conservation and replacement of the
native forests.
This is a notable contrast to the past policy of the
United States. Their Census Bureau shows by its
tables that private lumber companies own 32 million
acres of forest lands; and are rapidly denuding
this huge territory of its forests for timber and
paper pulp, without any attempt at re-afforestation.
In Queensland any person who desires to cut
timber applies to the local Land Commissioner, and
a Crown ranger meets him and marks the required
timber for sale. The timber is then sold at a lump
sum or on royalty, and the timber-getter starts work
right away.
In the United States the timber industry stands
fourth on the list of wealth producers.
The value of their ‘ ‘ lumber ” product in the
year 1905 ran into 118 millions sterling.
Mr. Philip McMahon , in his “ Queensland
Merchantable Timbers,’’’ shows that the Queensland
timbers sustained the highest “ breaking weight ”
tests of any timbers in the world.
Queensland spotted gum has a breaking weight of
13051 b., while English oak has 5501 b., American
hickory 7001 b., and Asiatic teak 7501 b.
Our sleeper timbers arc absolutely the best in the
world.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XLVIII.
FORTUNES IN QUEENSLAND TIMBERS.
By J. D. FITZ GERALD, Barrister-at-Law.
The scientific organisation of forestry in European
countries has already been noted. Queensland,
as the “ heir of the ages,” has had the advantage
of the latest knowledge on the subject of re-
afforestation, and therefore is not likely to make
the blunders which caused some countries to be
denuded of their trees before a motion was
made to replace them. The existence of our mag-
nificent native timbers is a proof that our soils,
climate and rainfall are wonderfully suitable to
the production of all varieties of timbers. We
may look confidently forward to the distant
future, when Q.ur present forests are turned into
commercial channels, and can easily adum-
brate the policy which will give to Queens-
landers even higher results from their forest
lands. We know that in Europe the returns from
the forests have been enhanced by careful and
skilful treatment.
In Saxony, for example, one of the afforested
States of the North German Confederation, the cut,
which represents only the growth, increased 55
per cent, during the period from 1820 to 1904,
bringing the annual yield to 93 cubic feet per
acre. In Prussia, in 1830, the cut was only 20
SAW MILL, ESK, STANLEY DISTRICT, QUEENSLAND.
cubic feet per acre, in 1865 24 cubic feet. In
1890 the science of forestry had raised the output
to 52 feet, and in 1904 it had reached 65 cubic
feet. The United States, under Roosevelt’s
leadership, has determined to handle the Appa-
lachian forests on scientific lines, for the purpose
of producing hardwoods. In one respect we are
able to survey wifih much satisfaction the differ-
ence between the governmental methods of
Queensland and those of the United States. In
our Northern State the land has been husbanded
with scrupulous care, so that it is only parted from
to genuine users, who are prepared to develop the
wealth for the direct or indirect benefit of the
whole community.
The United States Census Bureau shows by its
tables that private “lumber” companies own
forest lands in the United States to the extent of
32,222,000 acres. The States, as the original
owners, have parted with these lands to com-
panies and individuals who are careless of the
effects of their operations. These are cutting
down the forests for timber and paper pulp as hard
as ever they Can ; and until the last.few years no
thought of re-afforestation ever entered the heads
of the Government. In Queensland the forests
are subject to the regulation of the Land Acts, and
no one can make free with them without a proper
license and only after payment of a proper fee.
Thus licenses are issued authorising the cutting of
hardwood on Crown lands, for which the fee is £5
per annum ;' then for cutting cedar the fee is £10;
for pine, beech, or any timber which a Com-
missioner may define as rare, fee £7.
To cut and split slabs, fencing stuff and shingles
the fee is £3 per annum ; and for the right to cut
firewood, strip bark or burn charcoal the per-
mission costs £2. The Crown may sell timber by
auction on a specified area; or it may sell only
trees which are marked for sale, and at a royalty
on the amount of timber felled. The minimum
price exacted by the Queensland Government is
4d. per 100 superficial feet for hardwood, and fid, for
TALLOW- WOOD TREES , N. G. RAILWAY, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer,
hoop pine. The conditions of working are simple
enough. The prospective timber-getter applies
to the local Land Commissioner for the right to
purchase timber ; a Crown ranger is instructed to
meet the timber-getter and mark the required
timber for sale. When the area or the trees are
marked, the right to cut is put up for public
auction, either at the lump sum or on royalty,
Special rights to cut railway sleepers on timber
reserves are also granted on terms,
In the United States the timber industry stands
fourth on the list of wealth producers. The value
of the “lumber” product in 1905 ran into the
enormous sum of £118,000.000 sterling. The
United States railways absorbed 84 million rail-
way sleepers in 1905, and as the white oak, chest-
nut, cedar and cypress, which were chiefly used for
this purpose, are either wholly or partially ex-
hausted, the American must look afield for a fresh
supply for the insatiable craving for fresh railway
construction and for the replacement of the
sleepers which have become worn out. When the
qualities of the Queensland sleeper timbers, their
endurance and suitableness are realised, the
CEDAR LOGS FROM FOREST TO MILL, ATHERTON, N. R., QUEENSLAND.
Photo. by C, E. S. Fryer.
northern timber men will reap a rich harvest.
The future for the timber industry in Queensland
is therefore of the brightest. The South African,
Indian and home tests show the quality of the
article ; and it only requires the attention of the
capitalist, who is now busy with sheep, cattle.
sugar and mining, to make it also a great national
source of wealth.
Next to coal and iron, and possibly wool, there
is perhaps no other avenue of wealth-making
which will spread employment and prosperity in
wider circles than the timber industry. It em-
ploys the woodman, the carrier, the railway man ;
it gives energy to the bridge-builder ; while the
firewood branch alone gives a great deal of em-
ployment. Then there are the finer processes of
use, in which the skilled tradesmen are employed
—the carpenter, joiner, polisher, the carriage-
builder, the shipwright, the pier-builder. Then
there are the saw-mill employees, who are agrow-
ing community as the number of mills increases,
and the possibilities of the industry become more
and more apparent to the investor. The energy
and enthusiasm applied to the exploitation of
timber is growing year by year. Here is a field
for the immigrant! Such men as those who are
accustomed to the trade in Austria or Germany
would find a field in Queensland that would give
them a rich reward, and enable them to bring gp
their families in comfort and even opulence.
Nor is the life devoid of picturesqufeness or ex-
citement. Again the poet or the narrative writer
is called for, who will sing of or depict the romantic
life of those the sound of whose axes Or crosscut
saws is the first evidence of the approach of mkn,
bringing civilisation and, incidentally, destruction
to the forest giants, and interruption of a new
kind to the forest silences. Game abounds in
these forest spaces, and the sportsman can fill up
his spare time in the pursuit of his hobby. What
a field the naturalist has ! The story of the ad-
ventures of such men as S. W. Jackson, whose
work in the Barron Ranges in collecting strange
wild birds’ eggs and studies in oology and the
nidification of Australian birds is now classic,
would make splendid reading if it were available
to the public eye and not practically restricted to
the perusal of the scientist. That is one
phase of the forest life of Queensland which
may appeal to the man on English, German,
French, Russian or Austrian soil. There are
still forest solitudes where rare birds and rare
plants may be found ; and these will appeal to
certain quarters. But there is just as great an
appeal, though it may be to the commercial
instincts of the nations of Europe, in the business
uses of our woods, in the sight of the lovely grain
and the exquisite polish on the silky oak (Grevillea
robusta) when applied to the manufacture of art
furniture, or the decoration of carriages or rolling-
stock ; or in the knowledge that the machine
tests of the Queensland timbers show that We have
the strongest weight-bearing timbers in the
world.
It is interesting here to take a few figures which
Mr. Philip McMahon has collated in his most
interesting book on “ Queensland Merchantable
Timbers ” (now, surprising to note, out of print).
He takes the figures from various official docu-
ments, which show the “ breaking-weight ” tests of
timbers from many parts of the world. The
breaking-weight is ascertained by applying a
weight in the centre of samples lin. square, and
resting on supports Ift. apart, the ends being
free. In these tests, Queensland spotted gum re-
quired a breaking weight of 13051 b. and turpentine
10411 b., while grey gum stood 9831 b. To realise
the value of this test it must be remembered that
the breaking test of English oak (the strength of
which has passed into a national proverb) is
5501 b.; of English ash, 6501 b.; American white ash,
6501 b.; American hickory, 7001 b. ; Asiatic teak,
7501 b. Summing up the results of these tests,
Mr. McMahon says :
The results of all the experiments on the transverse
strength of our timbers come to this : That the breaking
weight of a bar lin. square and lft. long varies from 7501 b.
to 10001 b., a result which places them all in the very first
rank of the available construction timbers of the world.
It seems further that Australian ironbark stands
at the head of the world’s timbers for compara-
tive transverse strength ; the oak standard being
I*oo, while ironbark is 1’74, the Indian pyingado
coming next with I’sB. For comparative elas-
ticity, too, the ironbark and karri stand in the
highest rank. Queensland ironbarks, spotted
gums, tallow-woods, blood-woods and turpentines
stand ahead of the Australian timber classes in
the matter of transverse strength. So that, as the
Australian hardwood stands at the head of the
hardwoods of the world, Queensland hardwood
stands highest in Australia —primus inter pares.
I must now close this series upon Queensland
timbers, though the subject is not nearly ex-
hausted. Enough has been said to show the
extent of the resources of the State in regard to
merchantable timbers. It may also be gathered
that the possibilities of the expansion of the
GOODS TRAIN, YANDINA, NORTH COAST LINE, QUEENSLAND.
industry are greater than in any other country in
the world, hy reason of the prodigality of
Nature in the provision of timbers fit for
commercial use. The trade is in its infancy;
one realises this when you see the organisations
and the press and the figures in connection with
the industry in the United States. You read of
Lumbermen’s Congresses, and you hear of the
efforts which they are making to help on the
industry. I have under my e}'e while writing a
copy of the “ Southern Lumberman,” a weekly
paper containing 96 pages of reading and adver-
tising matter, and comprising in its news columns
accounts of the infinitely varied organisations
which have grown up round the timber industry
intheU.S.A. The reader in Europe may draw
his own conclusions from the facts placed before
him herein; but for an opinion on the value of
the Queensland timber industry and its prospects,
he will doubtless prefer a more authoritative
opinion than the writer’s. I therefore quote the
late Governor of Queensland, Sir Herbert Cherm-
side, G.C.M.G., C. 8., of the Royal Engineers,
who said: —
The timber supply of this continent consists both of soft
woods... and of a notable variety of hard w00d5.... The
eucal.vpts, which comprise over 160 varieties, are remark-
able for the fact of their members annually storing, in
their growth of potentially calorific material, as large or
larger percentage of the energy of the sun’s rays as anj
on this globe ; while there is none within its temperate
zones with an equal capacity for rapid and cheap produc-
tion of valuable hardwood. This genus, too, in the
amount and distribution of which this State (Queensland)
is so rich, has the characteristic of producing forest, the
regeneration of which by natural means is exceedingly
certain dnd'regular. ... Australia has over 107 million
acres of woodlands which produce timber of commercial
value, and over 200 million acres more growing a large
amount of trees useful for local purposes—building,
fencing, packing and firewood. Queensland heads the
States of the Commonwealth with some est imated 10 per*
cent, of her vast surface included in woe Hands of the
former category, and an additional 2a per cent, in those
of the latter.
To this testimony the writer can add nothing.


SKIN
BEAUTY
In the treatment of affec-
tions of the skin and
scalp, which torture, dis-
figure, itch, burn, scale
and destroy the hair, as
well as for preserving
and purifying the com-
plexion, hands and hair,
Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment are well-
nigh infallible.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: Lon-
don, 27, Charterhouse 6q.; Paris, 5, Ruede la
Palx: Australia. R. Towns <t Co.. Sydney;
India, B. K. Paul, Calcutta; China, Hong Kong
Drug Co.; Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Toklo: So.
Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U.S.A..
(Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., 135
Columbus Ave., Boston.
rKT“32-page Cuticura Book, post-free, giving
description, treatment and cure of torturing,
disfiguring humours of the skin and scalp.
LEEMING’S
FOR STYLE
IN
SHOES.
t 1 :■
V-. ■'
-PRICES
18/6 8 2216'
The above is the very newest fashion in Men’s
Shoes for Summer Wear.
In Tan or Black. Prices 18/6 and 22/3.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelig-ht.”
All that is newest in Footwear
is priced in it.
LEEMING’S Boot Stores,
103 Swanston St., Melbourne; 303 Chapel St.,
Prahran; 1 & 3 Errol St., North Melbourne [1
CONSULT
the Old HERBAL
SPECIALIST
for Nervous and kindred troubles which' embitter life
and Cause Nervous and physical breakdown. You may
receive the benefit of his lon<r and successful experience
in the treatment of these complaints free of charge.
. , i , C.Att or Write.
Address: HERBAL DISPENSARY,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE TO ALL
Ladies who lack proper BUST Development/
We will send full particulars of a valuable'
.remedy which -will ennance; your physical ,
and bring: about that natural Develop- ’
inent of the BUST which all ladies desire and i
all adinire. • , , ■
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. A, 44 Castlereasrh Street, Svdney.
CHANCE OF SEASON,
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peer/ess Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxat'.ve.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE Sold by All Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children arid
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
GLASS’ FLITE TYRES
On which, in the Warrnamhool to Melbourne
Road Race, I. R. MUNRO put up a
WORLD’S RECORD,
covering- the distance, 165 miles, in 7hrs. 12min., winning the Australian
Championship and beating the Warrnanibool Express by five minutes.-
v*\: f. i* wt'z m
4
m
IS Ml
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
, 234 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
289, 291, 293 SiAranston Street, Melbourne. 10 McHenry Street, Adelaide.
And all States.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
liawK.es & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SBTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
THE HYDROBLAST.
A NEW FORGE BLOWER.
Easier to work, more effective, more durable and cheaper
than other kinds. Write for particulars and prices.
THE- HYDROBLAST CO.,
Patentees and Makers,
FLETCHER STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
CO
CO
I
Makes women look ten years
over their age; makes them
ugly and ungainly; en-
dangers their health; j
impedes their progress;
makes them a laughing-
stock for their acqua-
intances and a stand-
ing butt for family
jokes. It also weak-
ens the heart and
makes life miserable
—as you know. 50
VO UR
EIGHT
‘FATCURE’
makes life worth living. It reduces the weight
permanently ; gives back the graceful curves
of a good figure; strengthens the heart and
gives perfect health where only indifferent
health had been existent owing to the accu-
mulated internal fat. Send a 2d. stamp for
Free Trial Sample and full particulars, or
Call if convenient. “ FATCURE ”is ab-
solutely harmless and is pleasant to take.
Once removed, the fat does not come back.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
m
m
AUNTS
GoSlisors&Go.
PATENTS and TRADE; MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Investors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/-
Thousands of Testimonials. 1
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS;
Messrs. Sayers, Al.port Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared b/ I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist
25. HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THAT HAVE CAUGHT ON!
They're books every Australian should
read.
They’re typical Australian from cover
to cover—full of intense interest from
start to finish. They’re written,
printed and illustrated in Australia —
you ought to read them—they’re pub-
lished in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E. Birtles ; price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, I/- ; postage 3d.
Duncan McClure, by “ Steele Rudd " ; price,
paper, 1/-’; postage 3d. /
(The above two combined); .price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd. ,■
Sandy’s Selection, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Back at Our Selection, by “Steele Itudd”;
price, rafter,' 1/- ; postage 3d.
From Selection to City, by “Steele Rudd”;
price/paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
For Lite, by “Steele Rudd” ; price, paper, 1/- ;
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/6;
postage sd.
Settler and Savage, by Chas. He Boos ; price,
cloth, 1/-; postage 4d.
Do., paper, 1/ ; postage 3d. •
On the Fringe of the Never-Never, b.v H. K.
Bloxham ; price, paper, l/ r ; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James Green ; price, paper, I/-;
postage 3d. • ,
The Missing Link, by Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by C. D. Websdale ; price, cloth, 1/-;
.postage 3d. And e q ua ||y g 00( j
books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
i 476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Ail Branches
and
Book-
sellers.
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases ■without
inconvenience
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
MIDI
Business, Robbery, etc.
A committee of the N.S.W. Lag. Council
lately trot a close viefvv of the Methodist conscience; and
the sight made even those tough old gentlemen gasp.
The Methodists—or, rather, the Wesleyan fragment of
them —had the rigdit originally to a slice of the University
land-grant; but as they didn’t take it, it lapsed, and the
allotment was used for other purposes, Now, having
fused with all the other Methodies, they want an affili-
ated college like the Anglicans, R.C’s. and Presbyterians.
The University Act, besides providing for a building grant
in such cases, provides also for the State payment of £5OO
a year towards the principal’s salary, on condition that
the sect puts up a sufficient endowment to keep the
business going otherwise. But when the committee of
the Leg. Council went into the matter and considered
the sect’s financial estimates, it found that they pro-
posed to collar the annual £5OO, apply it to general pur-
poses, and pay the principal—the boss Professor—£3so a
year! Of course, that pretty little bit of proposed mis-
appropriation and sweating was knocked on the head
promptly ; but the scheme contained some other features
almost as bad.
* * * *
“ Croson ” : The seedsman doesn’t guarantee
that anything will turn out according to specifications ;
but there’s such a thing as carrying this “ custom of the
trade” so far that, instead of being a trade custom, it
becomes a plain swindle. One recent victim is a man
who has bought a few acres outside Melbourne, and is
struggling to pay for.them. Last autumn he putin two
acres of alleged “ Sunrise ” peas, spent every spare hour
keeping them clean, “sticked” thepi carefully—and
waited. He still waits: - “ Sunrise ” ape the very earliest
peas, ripening late in September, and bringing £1 a cwt.
till November, when the ground peas come in. His
crop grew luxuriantly, over-topped the sticks, and pro-
mised a fine return. But they weren’t Sunrise at all;
and, so far, nobody can say exactly what they are.
They flowered gradually, and the pods are filling more
gradually ; and they will be full enough to pick by the
time peas are too cheap to be worth picking. He had a
motion of interviewing the seedsman he got the peas
from, but finding that several neighbors had already
had strenuous, but - futile, arguments with the
representative of commerce, he forebore to waste time.
Of course, Private Enterprise can always do the thing
better. Yet I guess that if a man got. on a State train
labelled Ballarat, and it landed him instead at Bendigo,
there would be the deuce to pay. And I guess that if the
seedsman paid for stuff to’, be landed at Geelong, and it
was landed instead at Dimboola, there would be an in-
furiated seedsman to pay also.
**. * *
France has set an example which Australia
would do well to follow. The French Government will
now only permit sparkling wine to be labelled “Cham-
pagne” when grown in the province of -that name ;
“ Cognac ” is only to be applied to brandy distiHed in the
district in which the town of Cognac is situated; Bor;
deaux, Burgundy, and other mockers are similarly regu-
lated. The Government issues licenses for the usb of the
labels, charges fees for their protection, and counts on
gathering in £1,500,000 a year revenue. If, instead of
ringing changes on Old World nomenclature, Australians
called their drinks after their Roo(y
Hill, Hawkesbury, and so on—the names could I>e pro-
tected to the advantage of producer and consumer.
About the only objection that can be raised is that no
poet has yet sung of the wines of Rooty Hill. Well, let
poets be hired ; there are tons of poets about willing to
write about red wine for reasonable cash'remuneration.
• * * *
Heaven (and possibly some advertising agent)
only knows why the foolishness is persisted in, but the
fact is set out in the course of a recent ponderous report,
that the Sydney Mint, though coining neither silver nor
bronze itself, issues occasionally a barrow-load or two of
farthings. Last year there was a much bigger barrow-
load than usual; in fact, just as many of the useless coins
were .issued in the 12 months as had gone out in the
previous 40 years—96,ooo of them.
* • * *
, “ Remo ” : Hero's one reason why the Australian
manufacturers of fancy soaps and perfumes make slow
headway against the imported article, in spite; of some
little assistance from a tariff. Certain standard goods by
world-known for instance—are se(s t aside
by most large drapers as advertising lines. Many of'these
soaps are constantly sold at actual cost price, and Spring
“ bargain sale ” times at an actual loss in order to attract
trad(e and prove that the “sacrifice” is a genuine affair.
When the Australian maker of soaps comes along with his
goods—goods.which haven’t been widely advertised for
half a century or more —he bumps this proposition. The
shopkeeper-hnay give him an order, but, having got the
goods, will want to make his 50 per cent, profit on the line.
Then the trouble begins. The little-known Australian
stuff naturally isn’t rushed at the higher price; so the
shopkeeper becomes supercilious when Australian in-
dustry is mentioned. If the Australian manufacturer
adopted a trade name, and made it a household word, his
goods would soon be worth something for advertising
purposes, too ; but very often he goes out of his way to
oblige his clients—allows each one to put some p irticular
trade name on to his manufactures. It is a fatal mistake,
for it makes effective advertising impossible. Pears’
Soap is Pears’ Soap all the world over. It isn’t Bilker
and Co.'B Ivorette Soap here and Watchem’s Watercress
Tablet Soap next door.
THE HEN-HATER.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Each day as you attend to your -flock, spend as much
time with them as you possibly can. Study their habits
and wants. Note their condition. A little time thus
spent each day will be fruitful in (rood results, not only in
egg production, but in health and growth as well. — Ex-
tract from the hen-farming column.
Though I admire all new-laid eggs
And eat one now and then,
I hate the thing with feathered legs
That lays them—Mrs. Hen.
Her husband has for years and years
Commanded me to rise
By crowing in my sleep-dulled ears
Ere I have oped my eyes.
For years I’ve cursed his morning shout,
And struggled from my rest
To seek the morning paper out,
And all its rot digest.
He is the Hkhald of the day—
Likewise the hoarse D.T.
Who tells me Night has passed away
And that Work yawns for me.
Therefore I hate the rousing call
He utters in conceit,
And curse as I go down the hall
With bare, reluctant feet.
I hate him, too, because he goes
To roost when it is dark.
(lie is the worst of my two foes—
The other is the Lark.)
The Lark —who is the Early Bird—
I always did ignore ;
Whene’er I hear his song absurd,
I just sleep on and snore.
His gentle twitt’ring cannot crack
The outer husk of Sleep ;
As 1 lie on my scornful back
In an untidy heap.
But the loud husband of the hen
Who crows ppon the gate
Won’t stop until I rise again
Seething with rage and hate.
And that is why I loathe the fowl
That cackles, clucks and.lays,
Because her husband’s raucous howl
Commences all my days. *.
I wish the working hen no harm.
But I desire to say
I would not keep a poultry-farm
For many pounds a day.
I order eggs—hard-boiled or poached—
Say once or twice a week ;
But when the great Hen subject’s broached
1 just refuse to speak.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


*Cg u.S.F**
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat,, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who’ have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the,
largest makers of . ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. ! Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief ill such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suff. ring, take. a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co.. Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
ITOUR
WITH
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6. OF a A h L d L store's. 18
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for-pre-
v venting the attack of these and pther
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Vlade by F. C.Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
People disagree on the i
COOK PEARY
controversy about reaching the
North Pole.
But no one denies that
Lieut. SHACKLETON
penetrated nearest to the
South Pole.
HE TOOK PLASMON WITH HIM!
The Lancet states that to
COOK PLASMON
with your food is to add enormously to the nutritious
value.
Plasmon, Plasmon Cocoa, Plasmon Chocolate,
Plasmon Biscuits, &c., of all Chemists, Grocers and Stores.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
PLASMON LTD., London.
Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CIGARETTES
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLAVORED.
HAVE SECURED THIS
MARKET BY ACTUAL,
MERIT.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/G per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100. Suitable for pipe smokers.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/0 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth from leading Tobacconists, or write the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
who will acquaint you of the nearrest supplier, or post to you direct till an agent is appointed.
, Postage—Add (idi-per 100 to your remittance.
r§n>j 1 1 <% [\\ 1 1 »i u Ljiiti'iaaa
Don’t Look Too Youthful !
CA PILL A RBNE
is a certain producer of a long 1 , soft
moustache in a shorter time than any
other pomade on the marker. It has been an unqualified success for the
last 25 years, TRY IT NOW, and you will have a strong: moustache early
in the New Year.
PRICE 1016 a Jar,
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
Craig: & Ait ken, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
/
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S
hrec Witches
b ciMßims,
mis
for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, svdney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
The Christmas
Entertainer.
For Christmas time, or any other time,
there's no entertainer to compare with the
Edison Phonograph, which is wonderfully
versatile.
It suits all tastes from the youngest to
the oldest, and there are records suitable
for all occasions.
We have a special list of records picked
out for the Christmas season, and if you
want to make i.he closing days of 1909 as
happy, as bright and as cheerful as they
can be, you should invest in an Edison
Phonograph and some of these special
records.
Now that the Amberols have been intro-
duced, you can have selections four
minutes ’ long—reproduced clearly, dis-
tinctly and naturally. Call on your local
Edison dealer, or write us for lists.
The Edison
Phonograph.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
in the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a bard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bauds of steel. The weak man or woman must give wav to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. \our health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Natu e’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in eveiy case.
Our method of apply iug Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the wiirfd.
a*
iL
J*'
\W
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kidr
noy, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. 'McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force—and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
mast be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to gi\e a strong current.
It hits special attachments fop men and wpmeu. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations. ('■ ■ :
BOOK
We have published an illus-
1 1rated book, which every
mail and woman should
reM. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of-all other treat-
ments. We will mail it KKKK, post paid, to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address: M.E.B. Co.
THE McLAUGHUN GO
Dep. 10, Casllereaglr and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CQRCOfIAN
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRAIED BOOK.
Name
Address
12


** AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2S. Posted.
(A wl, 2 needles,
1 reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
•V ss
j Its immense value in repairs to Roots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Rags, Belts, Strap*, etc., it
|is.the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from'the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
stipplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in *ewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc;
Need es are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, pose lree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post tree. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postil note to
STAR NOVRoTx CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
7
*
m
*■;
■
SI
-S. Ss.';. V'.
9' Hr » -
If you
are
thirsty
#
try
*
«»
glass
©
<*>
of
8
©
$
LIME
JUICE
«
?
“MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drinlc.
MADE IN TWO KINDS-
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened— i.e,, Lime Juice Cordial.
Es
u
o
You sec him along the barrel of a
WINCHESTER
22 AUTOMATIC RIFLE
HE'S YOURS f
This handy little ten-
shot rifle repeats itself,
the recoil being utilized
to do the reloading.
The novelty of its oper-
ation affords possibili-
ties for practice and
pleasure which no other
“twenty-two” does. Look
one over. §> §> &
Sold by Dealers Everywhere.
THE BEST FUN EVEB
The NU-FAGE MASKS
NOVEL
Slip on and. off in
an Instant
l
Only ]
Bd.
posted
AMAZING . .
.■ . CHANGES
PUZZLE YOUR FRIENDS
Absolutely Unrecognisable
IMMENSE FOR PARTIES
AND PICNICS
'T'HJS Nil-Face Masks are
-*■ quite different from
anything you hare erer
seen. They fit closely over
the face, and can be put on
or off in an instant. The
shape of your face is un-
changed. but the expression
MA.SK off.
TRY
ONE
is altered beyond recog-
nition. This is what
puzzles every-
body. You can have
lots of fan. There are
Twelve Different
Faces: The Stniler,
Grandma, The Geisha
Girl, The Motor Man, Pious
Pete, Jolly Masher, Dolefu l
Dan, Country Cousin, Dad '»
Wayback. Uncle John, Mai.
dnrin and Hoogenheimer. Prices : One Mask for Eight Pence
'Jhree for Is. 9<i.. Six for 35., Twelve for sr. 6d.; we pax
oariage Obtainable only from THE UNION
COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Briar
GBD
Briar
They copy us
They follow us
They never catch us.
Yoti buy
and you buy
the Best.
GBD
‘"“6n
Ar\
fN\\NN<
«NNV
Si
/y/tfG f •
d //o//c\YAy
Gv/f r fleys'
"irz*M*y**~ *c'o#/)/_/7'e‘
c4#r/?/z>css
' a Ceer*//vr/
o/r /r —-
;4S«v^
HOLLOWAY’S
are acknowledged the
longest-distance killing
guns in the world. Won-
derful results. Low in price. A week’s Free Trial given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write to the Agents—
S. COHEN SONS CO., Hardware Merchants,
310-16 King Street, Melbourne; and at London.
35
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
Catarrh is inflammation of the lining'
membrane of the nose and' adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades, the passages ‘which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDIGATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Oqlds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write .for bpoklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
PASTORAL*
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS :
J. H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
iiinu j
NORTON ,
Cartridges.
British made
.22 Long
and
Short
Your ’
range Re-
cords will be
improved by us- 1
ing these Cartridges'
The best Rifle Shots
t all use them. Sold by
/Ammunition Dealers.
Agents :
THE COLONIAL
AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA
woH**™ 1 -
OFFER;
V;
BEIT BUY
ARE YOU INTENDING TO
GET AN OIL ENGINE?
If so, December, 1909, is the time to
get it, and the “I.H.Cis the engine to get
During December, 1909, we shall make the most
liberal terms
For ever
month
Pratt's Best
from which
ml
abso
Benz
cot
This-
with a 4,
a 2
WX/ 12* |||||kwis ; wi\
Wm fuel your et
n
over
plot p|
Engines %uppliM
out 190im |
Specially i
Good value all wed
free 4 cWSMjsfa
MO.B. atjh^ftt}
in Australia.
ooked in: that
gallons) of
station
Engine w 11®? &( 1
a 10 H.P. |||f|<z//o>
Wsim hours p\
Igiilons;
%tc.
for ftgj^RLY
ft 9H9f\. f° cu *
the
sy still avmm£
r steam
■in trade old M |p£—
or jg | gjMsMW
While onmm§§T BE P.bM@P IN AND
BE “FIRM ’you mn yigve y®ooiigine (jglf&eml at any time
required up to ; '"
You are not likely to
hear from you NOW.
chance like this —let us
International Harvester Company of A merica
( Incorporated)
200 Roma St., Brisbane. 37 Broadway. Sydney.
545 Bourke St., Melbourne.
17 Bank St., Adelaide. 75 York St., Launceston.
(286)
Tix
fP*M
?
o. <iffi a «/<
16
riScA9i»«f
Mon
r Office $
2.6
NRW VOR*
Wo
£ \
office •'*
26
QROAOWMy
MtwVsßK
V I c
oOO^J.
V' 1 *%.
<•*?!« r
%c
<)V?O*Pw/v
«***■
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES-IY., V., YI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. Packet of Ten, 5d


“The Heathen”: A great word-painter
in'English brightened up Sydney’s Even Noose
last week with this dash of color
In these days of expansion, places that a few years ago
were hardly known to the public, now take their places as
lungs to our city. Among these stand pre-eminently
Thirroul, with its'virgin South Coast scenery, combining
beach and forest, and the mountains, in close proximity,
forms a rare picture, not to be surpassed. The property-
owners have combined, and intend pushing forward a
desire to have the land extending over the flats, in the
vicinity of the monument, put before the authorities.
There are some fine effects there. The desire is
apparently jibbing and sticking its four feet into
the earth while the land-owners are patrioticajly
shoving behind. I always thought that a desire
had to be held back by the tail; the one down at
Thirroul must be an obstinate beast.
Some Australian immigration people,
while trying to persuade British Hodge to come
south, recently happened on the agreement that
had to be signed by the “cottagers” on a big
Norfolk estate before they could get a peck of soil
to go “ cottaging ” on. The agreement: —
I, the undersigned, agree to hire a cottage in the parish
of , the property of ,at a rental of ——, and
agree to give up the cottage at a week’s notice should the
landlord require it for any other workman. I also agree
not to keep any pigs or fowls before first obtaining the
permission of the landlord or his agent. I also agree to
act as night-watchman when required, and to give
any information that might lead to the conviction
of anyone poaching on the estate. I also agree
not to take any lodgers without the consent of the land-
lord or his agent. I also promise not to harbor any mem-
bers of my family who may misconduct themselves in any
way. I also undertake to live at peace with my neigh-
bors, and to live an honest and respectable life. I will
also, before admitting any of my family home, apply to
the landlord or his agent, for permission, giving particu-
lars on a form provided by the landlord of their names,
ages, also stating if married or single, and how long they
want to stay.
Truly Britons never shall be slaves !
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Waybaek Book you are bound to read, Is.
1
Z>2
Ml
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ Length, 12 Inches.
/ “ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin. 1 [4
How mIL Deaf Ears Hear
He is wearing the
Ear Phone. Can
you detect it?
Being the story of the Ear
Phone, an invisibly fitted Wire-
less Telephone for the Ear, the
invention of Professor Edward
Hoffmann (author of “The
Sense of Hearing ”).
The book is most interestingly
written and fully illustrated,
and should be invaluable to
every deaf person who desires
to completely regain the power
of hearing. A eopy sent free
on request. Address :
Professor E. HOFFMANN,
Dept. 158 b,
54 Duke Street, Mayfair,
London, Engr.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
piiiiillliiiiiiiilli liiiisiiiil BBisiaSa
i !immr!m!!!H!n!!'' , *' t!!!!!!!!ii!!ii! 'l'‘' yiniifu m HHIII lIJI 111
™Sll|SSi®S®' iSSSS Sb
iteifc =»
■
iii{ii l ,.:ii'iiiiiii;iiiii.i.iiiiiii,'!Hi[,:iiiiii"i!l!i!:
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best, Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
caii be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free any-
where, 2/- Do not miss this chance of' obtaining
one of the best and most useful puzzles ever
produced.
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to give the match-
cad«-er a shock. When your
friend asks for a' match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attepipts to open
same he receives Avery sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
The JOKER’S INDIA RUB BEK SNAKE.
One of our most successful surprise novelties.
Folds up in a very small space, and can be held
in a closed hand without being noticed. Springs
out of the hand in a most natural way. Made
of indiarubber, and is absolutely unbreakable.
Causes heaps of amusement. Price 1/3 post
free anywhere.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—New Edition
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Hat-market Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Bydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between and Pitt Streets, Sydney
jr
A MONEYMAKER for Hotelkeepers.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Sodawater at 3d. per dozen.
We guarantee the Machine to do the work.
A FORTUNE for ENTERPRISING HOTELKEEPERS
Complete Outfits from £l5. Sold on Easy Terms.
Soda Fountains and Carbonators to suit Chemists and
Confectioners. Write to-day.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.,
167 GEORGE STREET, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes ” is a book; just issued
by Miss Maude Maddoeks, in which she explains
her reason tor offering £lOO Reward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove —as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
GRA
RIX
L°l'
PARIS
(Sa
1904.
900
The Celebrated
Schiedmayei
, Pianos >
'
THB
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99°ioi, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses In
the whole of Australasia.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
&
I
m
n
si
m
§
w .
DIET
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The "Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infantr
FULL PARTICULA.ES ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Meriue
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dit. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How To Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book, oy De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter,'lrish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is -each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, ,and all tiif, Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handy book, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Nhigh bor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book ok Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s, One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Tiif, Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Quef.n Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR ■■ PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ed.
Self Instructor : Evkry Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each,posted. - ’Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. tutabUsked 25 Yean.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
.. ___ . /
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTALrNOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENTIBY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s (Id. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy lspost. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age ofsßeason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
<r
i
IfflP
j
Food.
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
S>6e LEADING
HOUSE
Goods
Fisbing' TacKle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
CANT
B
BEAT
°£ r Special Snap
We are famous for our
“SURE CATCH" Cod and Perch Tackle.
It is the Best Procurable.
18 Cord Cod Lines —2s yards, 9d. ;50 yards, Is. Od. ; 100 yards, 2s. 9d. each.
27 „ „ „ 25 „ Is. ;50 „ Is. 9d. ; 100 „ 3s.
36 „ „ „ 25 „ Is. 6d.; 50 „ 3s. ; 100 „ ss. 6d. ,»
BAITS SUITABLE FOR COD FISHING.
Spoon Baits —Scaled Back, Red inside, 3 inch, Is. 3d.; 2J inch, Is. 3d. each.
“Otto” Baits— 3 inch, Is. Od ; 3| inch. Is. 9d. ; 4 inch, Is. 9d. each.
G-een’s Minnows, 4 inch, 4s. Gd. each ; Killem Spinners, No. 3, Is. each.
For Large Cod vve recommend our /Vic Murray Spinners,
price 4s. each ; also our Cyclone Spinners, 2s. 6d. each.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The man to whom you give an
ktToR -
this Christmas will consider him-
self doubly fortunate.
He will secure luxurious and
convenient shaving for the rest
of his life, and he will be saved
the continual expense for new
blades, which the gift of any
ordinary safety razor would
necessitate. Nothing to take
apart, either to strop or clean.
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated,
self-stropping razor ; one dozen tested —.— ,
lancet-steel blades ; one horiehide strop ; X /mm
in leather case, size! 2in. by 3|in. Sold '
by all leading dealers - NET.
Descriptive Booklet free on request to the Agents for Australia :
Lamson Store Service Co., Ltd.
The Rialtn, Collins St., Melbourne, and 222 Clarence St., Sydney
Auto'Slrop Safely Razor Go.. Ltd. cl L< N n e d w n o En O g r iacd. t- ’
Also at Paris, New York and Montreal.
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
are Bette* —Stronger —and More Durable Tyres
than all others .
Their immense popularity with Motorists is suf-
ficient reason why YOU should investigate their
merits before coming to a buying decision ,
Catalogue and Price List on application.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY
279 George Street, Sydney.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 « Grand Prize St Louis 1904
KALODERMA
uopnoipun aqiusHDM'UUOS 9 JsHOfft'J
suomnrad
Knlodermti Jelly
prepared with glycerine $ honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable S, efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Knlodermn Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap,the leading soap for softening # improving the skin.
Koloderma Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. JS/'
Knlotlermn Slwuins Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the market,
fi refined luxury at a popular price. Uc/' JcT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers. Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
lei KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Oastlereag-h Streets.
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6. ,
ORDERS BY POST PROMpft-Y ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno'S ’Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Rowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION.
■. ts
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to. Colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size. 2/6; Large Size. 4 6 Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by W. Q. HEARNE & Co., Ltd,,
Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


A MAN IS NO STRONGER
THAN HIS STOMACH.-*
M
a
Perfect Digestion
WEANS PERFECT HEALTH
THE stomach is the organ on which the whole human
system must depend for subsistence and existence.
If the stomach fails, then what is to become of the
rest of the body ? Where does the force of life come from?
Doesn’t it come largely from the food ? You know that if you
stop eating, you will die. But the mere eating of food does
not give life. Food can no more give life without digestion
than coal can give heat without combustion. It is not what
we can eat, but what we digest that keeps up the motor force
of the body.
UNDIGESTED FOOD
is not only useless, but harmful. It ferments and decays in the stomach, the
evidence of which you have in the distress you experience, that feeling of fulness
especially after eating, flatulence (wind in the stomach), belching and vomiting.
These symptoms are simply Nature’s warnings to you that something is wrong and
that you should do something.
PERFECTLY DIGESTED FOOD.
Now how are we to get perfectly digested food ? We
are all entitled to this, but by ignoring or abusing Nature’s
laws we are deprived of it unless we make other provisions.
We can do this only by taking the remedy which Nature has
provided, the remedy which contains a perfect combination
of all the elements which make up the digestive fluids as
they exist in the human digestive organs. In no other way
can we perfectly digest all we eat. Such a preparation is
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES. They actually
digest the food itself and prepare it to be taken up by the
blood. They do this with no assistance whatever from the digestive organs or their
juices. Food in tubes is digested in our laboratory tests as completely and perfectly
as it would be in the most healthy stomach. Is it any wonder, then, that DR.
SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES effect such seemingly wonderful cures ?
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES are obtainable everywhere at 2/6 per
tin of 80 tabules.
p B ? E 2/6 Digest that you eat.
MOC4
y<m
A Great Sufferer’s Speedy Cure
Headache causes so much, suffering that one
is apt to forget the throbbing temples are
not the real ailment, but the painful effect of
an ailment which lies in some other part of the body.
The most common headache is the bilious head
ache, which is sometimes accompanied by a yellowish
or sallow complexion, loss of appetite, splitting pains
across the temples, sickness, dizziness and foul
breath. Another frequent cause of headache arises
from the nerves being strained by excitement or
weakness, which runs through the nervous system
up to the brain. In both cases there is an irregu-
larity somewhere in the bowel or digestion action,
and the system wants clearing and touing-up. Bile
Beans not only cure this kind of headache, but that
terrible head-throbbing ‘which results -from the
blood in the head-veins containing impurities.
Mr. T. Williams, of Union Street, Newtown, Sydney,
says:—“ I have proved Bile Beans to be a thoroughly re-
liable medicine. I suffered with severe Headaches and attacks
of Biliousness. The headaches were accompanied by thrcb-
bing pains and rushing of blood to my head. At these
times I suffered Intense agony. Seeing Bile Beans adver-
tised as a cure for headaches, I decided to try them,
with the result that my trouble was completely banished.
Bile Beans to fellow-sufferers.”
>|i if? 1 ?
fHSj
ciJA •
v«
a/m-t
&
•'
i never fail to recommer.d
AUSTRALIA'S FAMILY MEDICINE .
BILE BEANS are the product of a modern scientific research,
and therefore thoroughly up-to-date. They do not merely purge,
giving temporary relief only and leaving the patient weakened,
like the out-of-date so-called remedies of forty or fifty years
ago. Bile Beans cleanse the stomach, ridding the system of
all impurities. They are purely vegetable, and they do not
contain any harmful drugs.
He
eans
u./. FOR
'Utousness
A box of Bile Beans
in the home is the
best safeguard
against illness. Bile
Beans are world-
famous as a cure for
biliousness, head-
ache, liver disorder,
indigestion, consti-
pation, debility, tad
blood, anaemia, loss
of appetite, and all
liver and stomach
troubles. Price 1/I|,
or 2/9 special family
size,fromall chemists
and stores.
ONE BEAN
ONE DOSE.
Pickles.
(A SERIOUS SERIAL OF LOVE.)
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Problem.
WITHIN this tale revealed you’ll
If Love or Pickles better be.
Preface.
They quarrelled ; she, a tender maid,
To bruise Love’s rosy wings afraid.
He, well accustomed Love to drive,
A tubby chap of thirty-five.
And after squabbling, what thing better
For each of them than write a letter ?
Her Letter.
Dear, give me a Sign ;
Love, send me a Token.
My Heart is wholly thine,
Those hasty Words of mine
Were but in anger spoken.
Mv eyes are red with weeping,
I moan for Might Have Been,
And dream of you unsleeping.
I am only Seventeen,
And my Heart is broken.
Hear me, darling, when I cry ;
You must suffer ev’n as I ?
His Letter.
You went (you write) to your home in tears,
Forlorn at the thought of quarrel,
And sat there split into hopes and fears -
Now that was an act immoral.
Your head is aching, your eyes are red,
(Or were, when you wrote your letter);
You should have had supper and gone to bed.
Ana then you’d have felt much better.
You wished you were stark in the cold, cold grave,
Or stretched on the cold, cold marble,
Or floating at peace in the cold, cold wave,
Or some other such monstrous garble.
That you wished it in earnest I make no doubt,
But ’tis folly your tale discloses ;
With a nice warm bath and a glass of stout,
You’d have slept like an infant Moses.
[ might have gone borne in the depths of woe,
Or a whirl of hoping.and fearing.
But I smoked a cigar of a brand I know,
And I found it distinctly cheering.
I might lie now on the bathroom floor
With a Gash whence the Gore-drop trickles,
But I don’t; for I opened the cupboard door,
And gat me the beef and pickles.
Conclusion.
I grieve to state this missive plain
Made Seventeen well-nigh insane.
She sent him back his Hair, his Ring,
His Photo, Presents, Everything.
He married, in a manner healthy,
A widow not too fair, but wealthy ;
She wedded (silly girls should know it)
A very impecunious poet.
Moral.
The moral is one which my fancy tickles :
Of Pickles and Heartbreak, give me Pickles.
VICTORIA.
P.
The Passing of Murray Hansen,
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
Hansen was king of the
J traders. From Mulwa to Ibsonberg he
ruled the commerce of half a dozen
islands.
“He’s the son of a Scotchman and an island
woman, you know,” the other traders were wont
to remark in disparagement of his success.
Sometimes news came through of a great feast
prepared in Hansen’s honor, and they pictured
jealously that gentleman devouring greasy pig
cooked in ashes, and sweet yams.; and still more
jealously they heard of the trade he acquired
thereby.
Mattingley, who had retired from trading long
since, warned him once. “Be careful, Hansen,
that you don’t find yourself eating something
other than pork one of these days.”
“ What d’ye mean ? ” Murray Hansen’s dark
face had flushed an angry red, and the fine white
teeth showed bare to the gums. Mattingley
smiled. The change was so utter and complete—
a big, good-tempered, good-looking young man of
no particular apparent nationality had been
transformed in a second to an angry islander.
“You know well enough what I mean,” he
said. “ If you find yourself eating man flesh you
might have to stop with them altogether. ‘ Once
a thief always a thief.’ They say it’s the same
with a cannibal, and there are pretty queer
reports from the interior sometimes.”
Just for a moment'it looked as if there might
be trouble between the two men. Then Hansen
laughed contemptuously. “ Thanks for the warn-
ing ; but I’m not so much my mother’s son that I
don’t examine the bones of the meat I’m eating.
Hope I’ll never be called on to eat you anyway,
for I reckon you’d be about as tough and fibrous
as your name.”
Somehow. no one ever mentioned the tribal
feasts to Murray Hansen again.
Then Hapsen met the girl who stilled all the
longings of his mother’s race within him. He
had often pictured the woman who was to be his
wife, and she was always tall and aggressively
fair. Now it came as a shock to him to realise
that he loved a tiny dark creature—but not
“ native dark.” He had not realised his love till
the chance touch of her fingers on his arm sent
the blood surging to his temples, and he was kiss-
ing her with the passionate roughness a woman
loves and resents.
She struggled m his grasp flatteringly—like a
bird, he thought. She could not cry out, for his
lips were too hard-pressed against hers. When
he loosed her she wept in girlish fury, and the
sound of her angry sobs was more pleasant to him
than all the rhythmic laughter he had ever heard.
Thereafter, in woman’s fashion, she sidled up to
him by imperceptible degrees till she was within
reach of his arms again. She nestled very con-
tentedly in them this time.
Their courtship was brief. Renee —the dainty
name fitted her perfectly—became Murray Hau-
sen’s wife. Hansen settled down quickly to the
planter’s round, and the trading routes knew him
no more for a while. He built his great, low-
roofed bungalow in a ring of hill country, just
within earshot, and no more, of the insistent call of
the surf. And here for eighteen joy-filled months
his white girl held him in content.
It whs just about then that his longings for the
things that had been began to take definite shape.
But Renee held him yet a little longer with the
hope that holds all men, and he prayed as all men
have prayed since the beginning of time, “May
mv first-born be a son.'’
"But the call within him grew more clamorous,
and the plantation work grew irksome in its
monotony. He found himself thinking regret-
fully of the times when he had entered his
mother’s village in honor and triumph. There
had been a girl, too—many girls, if truth be
necessary. But, above ail, one bronze Juno he
remembered. Had she married yet? He wondered;
and he wondered,'too, at the savage anger which
flooded his being at the thought. That is mail’s
way. He is a polygamous animal yet, made
monogamous only by fear of the law, and he loves
neither woman the less that he loves two.
A certain new-found knowledge was making
Renee very quick of discernment just now, and
she noticed Hansen’s ever-increasing restlessness.
“I had rather be alone for a while,” she lied to
him bravely one day. “Your petting unnerves
me. Go, dear, only, only—come back in time.”
.'At first he would not go. Then the new lust of
freedom ran leaping through his veins, and he
tried over anxiously the native tongue to see if he
had forgotten any of its intricate curls and twists.
But the words ran as smoothly to his lips as
presently did the water under the black belly of
his little ship.
There were four days then of sheer delight, with
the fresh salt smell of the sea stinging in his
nostrils. There were the star-raddled skies by
night, and by day there was the hot breathlessness
of sun-smitten waters when the waves merged
together almost foamlessly in an easy, oily swell,
unbroken it seemed from one horizon to the
other.
He roused when the anchors ran out and found
bottom in Mulwa roadstead. This was his
mother’s island, and the exultation within him
grew strong as his rowers pulled inshore. He sat
very calm and impassive for a while, then rose up
in the rocking little boat. -Unsteadily he stood a
moment in the swaying craft, his arms wide and
his toes digging unconsciously hard into his
rubber-soled shoes. Had his feet been bare they
would have curled about the boat ridges securely
as a white man’s fingers. He found his balance
presently and stooped for the second rower’s
oar. He took one sweeping Stroke, and the others
bent to the new time lustily. He saw the brown
backs curve and spring like willow twigs, and the
blood flush the dark necks and faces with an un-
wonted warmth. There was an ever-recurring
gleam of white teeth as the broad lips curved back
in sympathy with the swift running muscles, and
the strange, hot smell of sweating human bodies
crept up.
He reached for the thin shirt at the base of his
outswelied neck, and tore it clean to the waist, so
that his great chest showed heaving between its
folds.
Then he bent to his oar Again, bursting into a
full-throated native chant, the words of which he
was not even aware of knowing. The others fol-
lowed suit, and Mattingley, come dqwn shore to
see the new arrival whoever he might be, smiled
cynically as he heard the song, and expressed his
feelings in the last word of his greeting, “Wel-
come back—Murai.”
Hansen laughed unsteadily. “Home-sick” was
his laconic explanation—and Murai was the name
his mother’s people knew him by. Unashamed,
he dragged off his shoes and socks, rolling his
trousers to the knee. “ It’s good,” he told Mat-
tingley, plunging his feet in the hot golden sand.
Three days he stopped in the township, lazing
contentedly. Then he began to grow tired. He
did not want to go inland, and there was not one
of the wistful-eyed white women here to compare
with his Renee, and he even began to look for-
ward to his return.
But the island languor held him, and the sixth
day was at its zenith when an inland native
arrived seeking “ Murai.”
Mattingley cOrsed him under breath, for he
spoke the dialect of Hansen’s tribe and treated
Hansen with an almost-frightened deference.
And on the morning of the seventh day the two
departed together, Mattingley watched them go,
noting the same lithe swing of body and limbs
in eacii, and when they spoke their language was
the same sonorous roll of words that no white man
ever mastered.
So Hansen went to the people of his mother
and was welcomed vociferously. One wide-
chested, great-limbed girl crept to him, and
shrunk away from him almost as Renee had done.
He put his hand on her before them all, and
surely Murray Hansen was’ dead and it was
Murai who cried out, “Behold, my people and
brothers, I have come back to you.” But it was
the girl who added “ for ever ” with a proud con-
sciousness of her charms.
There was dancing that night in Murai’s honor.
Dancing and feasting! And always the great-
limbed girl waited on him, content with a tug of
her hair for caress.
The late moon had burnt through the rank
vegetation like flame, and the last star had
twinkled out in its brilliance before they had
eaten to repletion. The old chief rose then in his
place—a goodly proportion slept the sleep of the
glutted in theirs—and he spoke briefly. Many
rumors, he said, had reached them these last few
months concerning Murai, so that their hearts had
been heavy within them. But they would ask
nothing concerning these things, for Murai had
come back to them, and it was sufficient. He had
chosen his woman before them all, and as he was
of and also apart from the tribe, their usual cus-
toms might lapse in his case and the maiden be
his. Also the chief’s hut was at his disposal for
the present, and he was at liberty to consider this
his wedding night.
At which the great-limbed girl made some pre-
tence of fear and crying, but kept her place by
Hansen, nevertheless.
He sprang to his feet, and put his arms about
her unresisted. “ This is my answer ! ” he cried,
and swung her clear. A few yards he staggered
before he set her down laughing. Like two
children, they stood in the moonlight there and
laughed and laughed, He wound his fingers in
the thickness of her hair, and so they moved off
to the chief’s hut together.
The dropping of a spider from the pandanus-
thatched roof on to Hansen’s bare chest must have
roused him first.
He peered into the formless darkness about
him. The acute terror of the trapped animal
began to possess him, and he sat up shaking and
sweating. He smelt the hot closeness of the hut
and heard the regular breathing of the woman
beside him, and the frogs croaked outside as they
croaked o’ nights in the marsh behind the bunga-
low. He put out his hand fearfully, and the first
contact with the firrh,'bare flesh beside him told
him the truth. He fought against the knowledge of
it. He felt stifling now, and his breath came in
labored gasps, and the evil-smelling air was like
lead in his lungs. Softly he got to his feet and
(Continued on next paye.J


KIDNEY DISEASES
Creep Quietly to the Attack. Do not Mis-
understand the Symptoms—Backache,
Tiredness, Broken Sleep, Depression,
Urinary Troubles, Pains in the Limbs.
“Every
Picture
Tells a,
Story. 1 *
Do you know that
Rheumatism, Dropsy,
Gravel, Stone, .Lum-
bago, Sciatica, are all
kidney diseases ? The
kidneys when healthy
filter the blood ; when
weak or diseased they
cannot do their work,
and the whole body
suffers. Only a special kidney medicine can cure
them. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a kidney medi-
cine and a Kidney Medicine only. They keep the kidneys
well, and the kidneys will keep you well. Iseglccted
kidney disease is fatal.
Sydney People Cured.
A Sydney Man.
Mr. W. R. Francis, plasterer, 111 Arundel Street, Forest Lodge,
Sydney, says : —“ I suffered with severe backache ; the pain was just over
the kidneys. I was so bad that when I managed to stoop down, it was
almost impossible to get my back straight again, and every movement
increased the pain, and I had to knock off work. A friend advisefl me to
use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, saying.they had cured him, and he was
so earnest that I got some. I used two boxes and can safely say that lam
cured. I advise all who suffer with backache to get Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. I feel no pain now, and can stoop without any trouble.”
Six years later, when asked about his cure, Mr. Francis says : —“ Yes,
I am still free of backache, and have never suffered since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me, four years ago. It’s no fool of a medicine that will
cure like that.”
A Sydney Woman.
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road, Artarmon, Sydney, says :—“ I
suffered for a long time with severe pains in my back. They were so bad
that I could scarcely move about. Rest was out of the question. I would
be tossing about all night, moaning with the pain. I could not bend my
back, and I had to neglect my work. I was really very ill, and would be
confined to bed for days at a time. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
advertised as a cure for backache, and procured a box. After a few doses I
got relief, and then gradually I got better, until I was quite cured.”
Four years later, Mrs. Bruce says : —“ Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me of backache four years ago, and I have been free of this ailment
ever since.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per bottle (six bottles, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on
receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
ECZEMA.
A LITTLE GIRL’S LASTING CURE.
Mrs. A. M. Horwitz, 48 Baptist Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says:—“l sent for a
pot of Doan’s Ointment, and used it for
Eczema on my little girl’s forehead. The
rash covered the brow completely, and it
was round the eye as well. The itching
was frightful, making her very fretful,
and keeping her from sleeping, which
made it hard on all of us. I had used
several preparations previous tq.getting
Doan’s Ointment, but none of them gave
more than passing relief. lam pleased
to tell you that Doan’s Ointment cured
her completely. We have since used it
on another little girl with equally good
results. Doan’s Ointment is splendid,
and I advise • its use in all itching skin
diseases. It gave instantaneous relief,
and healed rapidly.”
Six years later, Mrs. Horwitz says :
“My little girl is still right. Shelias
been cured six years now. The doctor
who treated her said the Eczema would
return every winter ; but he was wrong,
as time has proved. Since I made the
above statement a lady visitor from New
Zealand used Doan’s Ointment for
Eczema on her hand, and it cured her
also.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per
pot, or will be posted on receipt of price
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
unbarred the heavy door, not even disturbing the
grass mat the girl shared with him. To get away
was his first conscious thought, for his father’s
blood was awake in him and crying out in
disgust. Renee— his white girl, his wife—he
would never leave her again, never hanker for the
tribe again—or so he thought now.
His native bride touched him lightly on the
shoulder. “ The wind blew from the open door-
way, waking me, and I followed,” she said simply.
He had no answer for her, but there was menace
in his look.
She divined his original purpose and stood
back a little from the reach of his arm that she
might laugh the more freely, albeit softly. “ But
you will not go ! ” she told him, just as if he had
spoken his intention to her.
His eyes flashed with a sudden pride of strength.
“ They will not stop me,” he said, and pointed to
the full-stomached sleepers sprawling about.
She stepped over and between them, peering on
the ground as though she sought something. Pre-
sently she found and brought it to him.
“ But this?” her tone was mocking.
It was a large, clean-chopped, clean-picked
bone and he jstared at it in a stupid amaze till she
ran her fingers along his own clavicle.
Tfie skin at the back of his neck grew very hot
and dry as he realised her meaning. Every pore
of his skin contracted till he felt as if he were
prisoned in some scaly hide through which he
must burst or die. Dully he remembered Mat-
tingley’s warning of long ago, “Be careful that
you don’t find yourself eating something other
than pork one of these days,” and his own con-
temptuous rejoinder.
And the news would noise through the islands,
under-breath and unofficially, as such news always
does, that there had been a man-feast to welcome
Murray Hansen to his mother’s people, and that
he had eaten of it and taken a native bride.
He could never go back—now ! Mattingley and
the other traders would never speak to him again.
And Renee and the little daughter or son ! —with
a sudden unreasoning impulse he prayed now that
it might not be a son, as fervently as he had before
t'iat it might—he could never see them. The
tribal world was to be his in future. He cursed
savagely as he thought of it. Then a wild hope
came to him. Perhaps he could outstrip the
news, and he and Renee would leave the place for
ever.
Suddenly and without warning the white man
in him asserted his repulsion, and he retched
violently. He felt a nauseating disgust for the
woman beside him and all these others scattered
about, but most of all for himself. The woman
still held the bone, and he tore it from her in sud-
den fury and hurled it far away. iShe grinned
and pointed out other bones. One, the splintered
half of a forearm, was by his place, and she
pounced on it in triumph.
He remembered tearing his meat from it earlier
in the evening, and he retched again. No, he
could not go back any more.
The sun was a pale hint of gold in a clearing
sky when he turned and strode to the hut. His
bride followed him submissively.
He held the door wide for her with a last touch
of Western courtesy. He flung himself down on
the mats and she crept timidly to the tiny corner
lie had left for her. A shaft of pale new-wakened
sunrise peered through a chink between wall and
roof, showing all the coarse promise of her.
He grunted, and turned his back angrily, listen-
ing to her sobbing almost with satisfaction.
Ho remembered suddenly that his leather belt
had a good solid buckle on it that would cut well
into the flesh. She sobbed more loudly when he
began to take it off, and he wondered grimly
what Renee would have said and done.
Then he saw the utter unreasonableness of the
thought, for Murray Hansen did not beat his
wife. But Murray Hansen was dead, and Murai,
who remained in his stead, was an islander. And
an islander is privileged in such matters.
LILLIAS GORDON.
The Man Who Was Too Late.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
HE had been a trifle dull and heavy all
day—ever since he got the letter —but
that was only to be expected under the
circumstances. Now his mind was moving with a
precision that was strange even to himself. It
was an uncanny sort of feeling, but not unpleasant
—he could almost see his brain as a well-oiled
piece of automatic machinery, working at top
pressure, and turning out well-devised plans and
thoughts without reference to himself. He was
detached, as it were.
Well, after all, he wasnot thefirst, by verymany,
though she had cut things pretty fine—to-morrow
was to have been their wedding-day. He was
thinking with a certain cold deliberation that
gratified him. It was good to be able to consider
things so clearly and calmly. There was a family
legend of a great-uncle who had also been jilted
rather hurriedly; but he shot himself—mad, poor
devil ! This man could conceive no circum-
stances under which his own mental balance might
be upset. After all, there were compensations.
He* travels the fastest who travels alone,.and per-
haps—
Her letter was very absolute in tone, but—girls
have strange notions, and he could imagine a
sudden wild physical aversion to marriage that
might account for his abrupt dismissal. Physical
impulses had been known to lead to strange re-
sults. No ; that would not do—he could feel his
mind going over the same old miserable ground
again, and he had had enough of that all day. He
must proceed without delay to adapt himself to
altered circumstances. Better not go back to the
boarding-house. He was not hungry—he would
stroll out in the half light and have a look at “ the
house.” It might serve as a commencing point
for the re-adjustment. Oh, damn it! you must
intake excuses for a girl; but she had gone a little
too far when she had let him take and furnish a
house ; and then, in spite of all . There was
a sudden breath of violets wafted to him, and
at a distance somebody struck up the opening
bars of “ Lustige Bruder.” The scent and the
music recalled that dance last week. It was the
last time he had seen her, and she had been very
sweet and gracious, as befitted a girl with a lover
to whom she was about to be married. They had
spent most of the evening together on a moonlit
balcony, and it all came back to him very keenly.
He recalled in the white glare of the
moon. - She had leaned back and faced it and
He wondered with whom she would sit out her
next dance. Suddenly a face and a name flashed
up, and a white-hot illuminating pang of jealousy
threw a new light on the tangled skein he had
been endeavoring all day to unravel. As he
walked into the cottage a hundred little things
came back to him, and it all seemed very clear in
an instant. It had a lonesome sort-of feeling—his
own house ready for her tenancy. Even the clock
was going. He sat down in a big leather-covered
chair. They had laughed together when he
bought it. Well, that was the explanation, was
it? Blakenev, curse him ! —and a dumb, choking
devil seized him by the throat. If Blakeney were
only there !
Well, murder is not the thing nowadays ; and
he, at any rate, was not sufficiently elemental.
But there was a fascination in the idea, and he
played with it for a moment, staring into the
dark. A spot of light—a lamp from the street
shining upon a polished knob in the room —caught
his eye, and mechanically he fixed his gaze upon
it.
Very slowly and gradually it seemed to increase
in size until the world was full of that shimmering
white light. It recalled moonlight on a white
face, somehow ; but Blakeney’s face was there
too, and very white. Two tiny figures appeared
in front of him, his own and hers, and he recog-
nised that tli§y were playing the last two years
all over agairp But there \vere three present—
there should only have beep two—and the third
gave a very different interpretation to the whole
pageant. He watched it very eagerly. You
don’t often get an outsider’s view of your own
life, and there were many things that had puzzled
him, but they were all made very clear as he
watched.
As he stood looking, somebody seized his arms
from behind and bound them tightly. Imagina-
tion, of course ; there was nobody in the room,
but the sensation was certainly very real while it
lasted. The clock struck eight with a curious
staccato chime. That also recalled something;
but he could not remember ; and, as he wandered,
again there came that peculiar feeling of being
bound ; and was not his face covered also? He
tried to put up his hands to clear it, but suddenly
the floor seemed to give way beneath him, and a
dreadful dangling, choking sensation seized him.
The door-bell rang loudly, and he shook himself
as he realised that.he had been dreaming, or
rather had been self-hypnotised. It was an
unpleasant hypnotic suggestion, he thought, and
grinned a little as he lit the gas and went to open
the door. He grinned again as he recognised the
visitor.
“Come in, Blakeney,” he said. “How the
deuce did you know I was here?”
The choking devil came back to his throat, and
he marvelled that he could articulate the words;
but Blakeney must come in—oh, certainly he
must come in.
Now his brain began that precise, machine-like
running again, and he saw what was going to
happen in the next few minutes as clearly as he
had just seen the past. There was something in
that hypnotic suggestion after all. Blakeney
was saying that he had inquired at the boarding-
house, and he had “an explanation to make,
Gleeson.” But he must come in, and Gleeson
almost pushed him through the first door he came
to. As he struck a match, he saw it was the bed-
room—their bedroom. No matter —it was all the
more suitable. Blakeney caught his eye as the
gas flared up, and sprang for the door; but lie
was just a second too late, and Gleeson was
on him.
FITZ WILLIAM.
The Leaders Yet To Be.
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
AS when the stars awhile have paled their
splendors,
To shine again like souls that blaze,
serene,
So shall this land find Leaders and defenders —
All these shall pass, these creatures base and
mean !
0 Commonweal, of Cooks and drifting Deakins
Art wearied long? Their mouths are filled
with shame;
Be comforted—l see the far-off beacons,
The Leaders worthy of Australia’s name !
I see the young Republic stand defiant,
Her steel-clad ships patrolling shore and sea;
Proud handiwork of Statesmen self-reliant,
All hail to them—the Leaders Yet To Be.
When these lie dead, these creatures weak and
spineless,
Then shall a generation new arise ;
The future’s page, unmarked as yet and lineless,
Shall tell Posterity how great and wise
Were those whose hands through storm and con-
flict steering
This Nation brave to independence bore ;
Whose strength, when blew the winds of discord
veering.
Still held her from the fanged and rocky shore !
Posterity—our sons who shall hereafter
Possess this land and shape its destiny—
Shall scan these days with scorning and with
laughter,
Shall hail the strong—the Leaders Yet To Be !
0 that a maii might live to see the glory,
To hear the thunder of acclaiming guns;
To stand updh the lofty promontory
And see the ships bring back Australia’s sons !
0 that these truckling knaves might swiftly
perish-*—
The small of soul, who bear Convention’s gyve ;
When shall they come, the Men whom Time shall
cherish,
When shall the brave and fearless souls arrive?
These whom we know, these creatures tombward
crawling.
Soon—soon, O Land, let them forgotten flee;
Hide in the grave these toad-souls flatly sprawl-
ing. -v ;
Where are the Men—the Leaders Yet To Be?
Far down the years I see this Land puissant
Uplift with pride her world-regarding head ;
I hear the Future call unto the Present,
Bidding it rise and leave its cripple bed.
There sounds a Call for those whose hearts will
hear it,
For all whose souls are resolute and strong ;
The cringing worms, the tame and slack of spirit—
These cannot hear their country’s battle song !
These cannot hear the gun-stroke and the thunder, :
Nor see the ships march forth in panoply ;
The fighting souls may rip the years asunder,
They know them not —the Leaders Yet To Be !
Captains we need for protest and rebellion—
Arch-enemies of flabbiness and wroug ;
0 that one star might rise in perihelion.
One stinging soul to lash this breed along !
From years like these I turn in bitter loathing—
Give me one glimpse of better days than these
When, ’neath the Leader’s gesture and the
clothing.
Shall surge the strength of great Miltiades !
Give me a land with heroes filled ; and, soaring,
Let all men raise th'eir psalm of fealty ;
This day of small things fills me with abhorring ;
I seek the Men —the Leaders Yet to Be !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


“I have worked o» the Barrier off and on for several years, and
had to lose a good many shifts
throngh ill health. I could neither
eat nor sleep well. In fact, work of
any kind was out of the onestion
until I struck a good thing in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I had only taken one
bottle when I felt a lot better. In
all, I have taken seven bottles and
now am quite well. I always tell any
one that feels off color to take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and it will put them in
working order.”
Saß
J. W. Scott,
Broken Hill, N. S. W,
w.
Imperfectly digested food breeds poisons and im-
purities which, are quickly absorbed into the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
will strengthen the stomach and make the digestive juices more active.
As a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion we cannot recommend it
too strongly.
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you get
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other kind put up in imitation of it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Dowell, Maas., U. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
kS^SSXAMjS
Bird’s
Custard nfe&ntt
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centime*
SINGLETON'S EVE OINTMENT;
In nse since 1896.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist (or its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. Loudon, Eng.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas &Go.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring- this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
, turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
boundina- locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price .. ..£3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £6 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
GunC choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .. £1 16 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. ..£2 17 ®
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price _ U 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
AH orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —“ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co, 214 George St., Sydney,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original ant! Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
6 (© ) e>
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
—miIIWIIIIIIII I --orTTr■miTfaHMr 1 ' 11 u,mjTOy?CTEimßßgiaft^ imu ■mm n T
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale, Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PLAIN TRUTHS
on the subject of Health are the only acceptable pronouncements.
Exaggerated statements end by convincing no one—rather do they create
suspicion, and give rise to doubt. But you may safely listen to universal
opinion. The public have for long known the value of Beecham’s Pills
in cases of disorder and irregularity of the Stomach, Bowels, Liver and
Kidneys. Thousands of men and women know, from glad experience,
that an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills will promote the healthy action
of these organs, and that all the good things heard on every hand
ABOUT
this medicine are true in the strictest sense. Most people desire a
specific that can be depended upon at all times to correct the vital
functions when they are out of order and Nature calls for some assist-
ance. Such a preparation may be found in BEECHAM’S PILLS.
They will put you right and keep you up to the mark. They have
proved an immense boon to many thousands of men and women
all over the world. It is just as certain that they will benefit you—
and this is a plain truth you may accept and act upon in regard to
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price I}l\ (56 pills) and 2/9 (163 pins).
■—Ti
m,... v- . ■<:.■
t - ' . ■ :? •.
Electric Light
FOR
Country Houses.
This can now be obtained by installing a
“Steel Wings” Windmill,
with a dynamo attached and storage batteries.
The whole outfit is controlled by a simple automatic
Instrument, which cannot get out ot order.
NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE IS REQUIRED.
Note this one most important feature—that after the
Initial outlay there is no further expense.
The first cost is moderate.
You press the button, and the wind does the rest.
We have an outfit working, which may be inspected
at any time by calling on
The STEEL WINGS WINDMILL C0.,1td.,
Next BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
Dept. O supply particulars on application.
9 2
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending' all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and 1 will advise you
honestly and without charge.
S. H. HENSHALL, b E y ?L“'
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fra*. 1«-
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send i Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 m G.P.O.m SYDNEY •
mas-“ What”?
A SPGGESTION.
"I WISH I HAD A ‘SWAN’ PEN!”
You’ve often- said that to yourself—
haven’t you ? Possibly you have heard
friends say it, and yet when gift-time
comes you wonder what to give.
“SWAN”'
Fount Pen
makes an ideal present—combining useful,
attractive and lasting qualities.
Sure to please, sure to prove useful.
SOLD BY ALL HIGH-CLASS STATIONERS.
From 10/6 to
Our illustrated Booklet tells about the bWAN.
Write for it to-day—post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., Manufacturers, London and Branches.
Australian representative : JAS. A. BURKE,
15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
-mm.
re
«


TRY ONE OF PERDRIAU’S
CELLULOID COLLARS.
Yes, just try one and see if} T ou don’t get more solid
satisfaction out of that than out of three or four of the
ordinary linen collars.
. .#or.
SAVOY” Shape
Our Celluloid Collars are
splendidly made and can be
kept perfectly clean without
any trouble or expense. They
do rfft lose their nice, dressy
appearance in the hot weather,
and they give wonderfully long
wear, too.
We have in stock all sizes and
shapes, including those specially
designed for Clergymen, Police-
men, Waitresses, Nurses, etc.
The all-round price is 10d.—
postage 3d. for two, 4d. for
... three. Send for the special
Celluloid Catalogue ; it’s full of interesting information
regarding Celluloid goods.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney,
PETROL ELECTRIC LIGHTING SET
FOR
.
✓
SOLE AGENT,
T. K. STEANES,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
nri TTI fVI A the original and
DLL I lIMUI GENUINE BALATA.
TRADk^
tfggglggg&^
kifAnUt
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: JaUICS HardlG & CO.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, (id ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The beverag'e
that benefits.
At all times
asR for and obtain only
McINNES DOBBIE INDICATOR.
it
OBESE” INDICATORS
FOR STEAM, GAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted by British Admiralty, and used by the
Largest Power Users of the World.
H AIR
HIGH SPEED ENGINES
Snßßßal !bOm
STEAM, BELT OR ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
Simple, Double or Triple Act>
ing, with Forced Lubrication.
J. WILD RIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COMPLETE
MINING
EQUIPMENTS.
DICK KERR 8 CO. LTD.,
Head Australian Office : E* S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
Engineers, Contractors, George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR
INQUIRIES
SQL ICITEP.
, •
MOTORS,
■ j-i. ll
TEL.
[3236
\5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED. GATESEND ON TYNE.
SPECIALISTS.
162 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
G.P.O. BOX 1629,
SYDNEY.
’Phone 1390.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Officei Mutual Life Building-, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
MINE SMELTER,”
Hi! §|
SY
in Sydney
PERCUSSIVE ROCK DRILLS
AIR (HAND) HAMMER DRILLS
3.rßd for Prices a.nci Full Particulars shall fee pleased to receive your inquiries.
THE GYRAL ORE SCREER
By its Unique Construction and Varying Peripheral Speed,
the Ore Particles are subjected to a Twisting
Motion, and therefore present all Faces to
Screen and Wash Water.
W&TCAPACITY 30 to 50 TONS PER DAY .
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
263 George Street, Sydney 4
486 Collins Street, Melbourne
'-'r.M
