

The Whisky for Men of Taste.
10*7 Kent street, Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
FOR
and
Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
Mining
and
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AWLABLE.
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERS .
fhfd
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Haigh’s Wood=
Working Machinery
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
12S William Street, Melbourne.
3E-a:c^3B■iak■m. ,^x^ .
' — mfr> —
(jadley’s Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
</, C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
*
Take it back.
l must have
HUTTON’S
Fine Apple Brand
MAMS r t
bacon .
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
INDIGESTION
Heartburn, Diarrhoea, Biliousness, etc., can be
speedily cured by the use of
Lantebek’s Pepsin Extract.
Pamphlets, with a half • hundred leading
doctors’ testimonials, with numerous descriptions
of cures of all Stomach and Digestive complaints,
are enclosed with each bottle, or will be forwarded
free on application to the sole agents.
LANGEBEK’S PEPSIN EXTRACT is ob-
tainable from most Chemists and Medical Vendors
in N.S.W., and will be posted free on receipt
of 3s. (stamps taken) to any part of the Common-
wealth or N.Z.
E. GOMMESEN & CO..JK*
DE MESTRE PLACE, off 310 George Btreet, SYDNEY.
CL Ik&t.
cut,
u
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE ,
>Vw>V
A*
9 *9
o
i® A
$
!V
A
<2?
<o
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS PSIIRY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
k
Royal
Dutch
[tiling
is the Quern of all Cocoas
F°F^
|Aroma,Strei\gthfrPurit)C
A ready-to-use roofing that sets the
standard for all others, and is
infinitely superior to either slates,
tiles or shingles.
OTLaitA^id
Insist on having MALTHOID, as
it obviates all roof troubles,, is
easy to lay, and gives unbounded
satisfaction.
COMPANY- (WILLIAM BALDWIN,
FOREIGN MANAGER), « MART® PLACE, SYDNEY.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
C. A. MacpONALD
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TJ ' :
NOlDWIHiaOMl
sduund
8 KEPT
ALLS
.
N
Sen© for Catalogues
Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence
THORNE’S WHISKY.
MART
H
■
One Star (El Three Star
BRANDY.
hfi innii spa watfr
□“ Would be, could be ” Spa’s, drawn from coal measures, limestone
region*, or saline cordial room inventions, only perform
fnr the seller and for the buyer too.
DEWHURST g HALU
The Bulletin
V01.30.—N0. 1551.]
[Thursday, November 4, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmissi.n by Post as a Newspaper.


PfIHPOKS ANO
SUPPLIES, INCLUDING
THOSE REVIEWED ON THIS PAGE.
Pemberton (Max): Fortunate Prisoner, 3s 6d, posted 4s
Marchmont, A. W.: Imperial Marriag-e, 3s 6d, posted 4s'
Sloan es Elem Electrical Calculations;9s, posted 9s 8d
Kingsland, Win.: Scientific Idealism: or Matter and
Force m Relation to Life andConsciousneL Qg p 9s9d
hfdh
rfsrssassr *™;C a, L„ Er
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS.
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the
S B
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Btreet, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
LOVE MAGICAL.
ad keen w here I have been
(Cjrey, grey the skies above),
And you had seen what I have seen.
You would not laugh at love.
Seek, seek till you find a rose
lied all through to its petal-tips,
the ,° urv ’ e of her mouth,
1 lips”* ° f and ttje red of her
If 2? u ., ha . d heard what T have heard
(Dull, dull the beat of the sea).
Your heart would leap like a singing bird
Troubled and thrilled by ecstacy.
Stars sing in the dark o’ the night
Birds sing in the gold o’ the noon ;
Melody reigned m her speech a queen,
lhe song of the stars and the birds’ tune.
The rose is dead that was her mouth
(Dale, pale on the earth it lies),
,m d y?, st aad North and South
lh® world is full of weeping eyes.
A noon is dark, a star is d uYnTi
A rose is dead, a bird is mute ;
Ana love that made sounds magical
Is silent like a broken lute.
RODERIO QUINN.
Granville Barker’s Plays
A CERTAIN amount of curiosity
has been aroused with regard to
the plays of Granville Barker
borne newspapers have proclaimed him as
the most brilliant of the younger drama-
tists m England, and his censored play
Waste, when performed by the Stage
I Society, was declared by nearly all the
dramatic critics to be one of the most
VI f ln * ;ere sting, stimulating and im-
pressive pieces seen on the London sta<m
for years. The Times, while recognising
that it is “a work of extraordinary
power, agreed with the Censor that
the subject matter and the sincere
realism with which it was presented
made the play unfit for performance
before a miscellaneous audience of various
ages. But there was nothing to prevent
its being published in book form, and by
that means reaching a much more miscell-
aneous public and shocking a larger
lumber of innocent minds. So it has
ieen issued at Is. 6d. net, and, with the
lelp of full stage directions and a little
magination, the unprotected reader can
eceive all the damage the British Censor
■ashed to save him from. Waste has also
published with his earlier plays—
I h e Marrying of Ann Leete and The Voi/sev
Jackson) m ° ne V ° lume ( Sit % w mk and
I Granville Barker, like a good many
other playwrights, has been strongly in-
fluenced by Ibsen, and a moral is writ
large in each of his plays. Waste is con-
cerned with English political life of a
couple of years ago. The principal male
characters are leading members of a party
about to come into power. Trebell is a
brilliant free-lance, a self-made man, who
is wanted in the new Cabinet to take
charge of a Disestablishment Bill. At a
critical moment he meets Mrs. O'Connell
i pretty woman who has left her husband
n Ireland, mainly because she objects to
Jhe responsibilities of a family.' It is
. 0 a.m., and she encourages a flirta-
aon.
■titn J °’ CoNNELrj: 1 am afraid you lack imagin-
nthfs B S : ° ne mUSt qhooSe sol «ething to lack
•SSfe; Not ‘o
Trebell : And tiien ?
Amy : Well if that’s not an end in itself T
ippo.xe there s the hereafter. • • • 1
1 REbell (grimly material): What, more de
WatCh Pe ° ple wastin £ on them-
■ives with amazement I rpfnoo i i
rward to wasting eternity" f iook
A.,M,haki„g her head): You ,re very solf.
Trebell : Not more so than anv machine that
Zrr y ' And 1 h °P e not se lf-conscious. at
A d] attractively treating him as a
iia) . It would do you good to fall reallv
sperately m love with me ... to give me the
_wer to make you unhappy.
maS to t aTf;" ty - three I , en ? a^ed myself to
%ft off. charming and virtuous fool. I
A.MY : Did she mind much ?
Irebell: We lioth minded. But I had - deals
womanhood that I wouldn’t sacrifice to anv
f” a^i being ' Ihen 1 fell in with a woman who
luced me, and for a whole year led me the life
lof a i rench novel . . . played about with my
b™?n S ° nS ™ 1 h ? d tortu , red chat other poor girl’s
b.a] s .Education you’d call it in the one case, as
I called it in the other. What a waste of time !
The flirtation proceeds vigorously, and
the lady makes what the Family Herald
discreetly refers to as “a mistake ”
Later on she tells Trebell that there is a
possibility of her becoming a mother, and
she would rather kill herself. He does
uot understand her horror, and just then
ae is switched off into negotiations with
regard to the new Cabinet. Intent upon
ivoiding motherhood, Amy O’Connell
irranges for an illegal operation and dies,
a. letter implicates Trebell, and there is a
me scene hi which the members of the
./abinet-in-course-of-construction inter-
dew O Connell with a view to avoiding a
candal. O’Connell has some sympathy
or Trebell; but an indispensable member
f the Cabinet has religious objections to
ssociating with the sinner, and Trebell
Has to be left out. So he suicides, and
the comment of his sorrowing secretary
I m angry . . . just angry at the waste of a good
min. .Look at the work undone . . . think of it!
Who is to do it? Oh . . . the waste !
When Beauchamp’s Career came to an
I untimely end, there was some compensa-
tion for it in the youngster whom he
saved. Here two careers are ruined by
the woman s fear of the burden of her
womanhood, and her own life is thrown
away. Waste has more moral significance
than a hundred average sermons, as it is
extremely dramatic and interesting; but it
was censored because it refers to an un-
pleasant subject which everybody reads
about now and then in the newspapers.
Tt does not, however, reach the level of
rbsen in dramatic art, for a good deal of
Tie dialogue, though clever in itself, is
lot vital, and could be dispensed with.
N"or has it the crisp, cleaivcut style of
lalsworthy’s Strife and Silver Box. But
Waste is as much superior in craftsman-
ship to Barker's previous play, The
7 oysey Inheritance, as that is to the first,
o that there is no reason why his future
/ork should not be still better, and place
im in a very high position indeed.
Beardsley, Wilde and Others
I Robert Roms monograph on Aubrey
Beardsley (John Lane) gives the handful
ot facts which make up the outward life of
tile artist, and a commentary on his work,
ihe real biography of Beardsley is in Aymer
Valiants list of tile drawings, which fills
nearly half the book. Sixteen of the draw-
ings have been reprinted, most of which have
been already made familiar by frequent re-
production. . It would have been more
interesting if the illustrations had been
selected from the less-known drawings,
especially Beardsley’s last work-the illus-
trations for Ben Jonson’s Volpone. How-
ever, the sixteen chosen make a representa-
ave set, and the book is a handy one for anv
vho wish to know all there is to know about
■hat short-lived genius whose line was as
>ure as jus subjects were abnormal.
* « *
Beardsley naturally suggests Oscar Wilde,
diose Salome was the occasion of the artist s
cost remarkable conceptions. Wilde’s essay
n Ihe Soul of Man contains a brilliant
ttack upon the British Philistines which
let Beardsley s case in advance :
They are continually asking Art to be popular
) please their want of taste, to flatter P their
lolrlT f vanity ’ *9 tell them what thev have been
told before, to show them what they ought to be
tired of seeing, to amuse them when thev feel
heavy after eatmg too much, and to distract their
thoughts when they are weaned of t£ own
stupidity. Now Art should never try to be
artistic"' The P ub he should try to make itself
work of art? V I f, a healthy < )r an unhealthy
S, of arfc . ? From the point of view of style a
healthy work of art is one whose style recognises
the beauty of the material it employs g
uses that beauty as a factor in producing the
S he a C h eff nh' Fr ? rn * h e point of view of sub
ject, a healthy work of art is one the choice of
Tf the SU >J r cwndltu »ned by the temperament
of the artist and comes directly out of it. In fine
a healthy work of art is one that has both per-
fection and personality. . v . An unhealthy work
o art, on the other hand, is a work whose style is
obvious, old-fashioned and common, and vvhose
subject is deliberately chosen not because the
the hr S M V lm,lre in but because he thinks
the public will pay him for it.
Beardsley’s art survived the charge of “ un-
healthy, ’’as that of Burne-Jones and Norman
Lindsay has done. And the artistic work of
Oscar Wilde, for a while in obscurity, hi
now suffered a recovery in public esteem.
A limited edition of his complete works has
been sold out, and Methuen and Co are
EtfWnf 8 a Ch m Per edition in handsome
little volumes, sold separately at ss. net. The
GW iT 6 ns Lord Arthur Sarnie's
.nme, three other slight stories and the
ingenious For trait of Mr. W. ll an
imaginary interpretation of Shakespeare’s
sonnets, vvhieh contains some good criticism.
Vo lllne containing the Poems, probably
not quite complete, is to follow.
+ ■* 0
The previous edition of Wilde was sold
o °r7 ln se a®> and the price put it beyond the
ordinary book buyer. A complete edition of
Meredith is to be published shortly which
will contain all there is of two novels left un-
famshed at the author’s death ; but it will be
sold only m sets. The complete Stevenson
was published m thesameway. Thepractice is
unfair to buyers of limited means, who have
bought their Merediths and Stevensons as
they wanted them. They can never obtain
ail the author s works unless they duplicate
m °mf ° . t, ! eu ' volumes at a heavy cost.
-this is bad enough ; but it is simply in-
excusable that a living author should publish
a complete edition of his own works, as
Xeats lias done', in eight volumes, containing
matter unobtainable elsewhere. In all pro-
bability he will write a good deal more, and
there will be another collected edition after he
is head, borne consideration should be shown
to the humble reader who has bought each of
the original volumes as it was issued. No one
would care to sell the original editions in
ordei to buy a complete edition in uniform
un nig with the proceeds. Besides, Uni-
term editions are objectionable in themselves.
j- m y 40 volumes of Walter Scott or
the hives of the Saints ” at one go you
will never read the lot, and someone is sure
to borrow ” a volume and spoil the siit.
Uniform editions are generally bought for
gentlemen s libraries ” as part of the furni-
ure, and great skill is required in arranging
them so as to harmonise with the wall-paper
and the carpet.
* • * *
Jhakespeare, by A. 0. Swinburne, written
in IJOo and now first published by the
Oxford University Press, is a brief survey of
the work of the Shakespeare syndicate. It
uses up any of the adjectives left over from
onhl'; i 8 Stud V °f Shakespeare
p J Wished m 1880. To anyone who has never
lead Shakespeare nor heard about it, this
high-pitched eulogy might prove useful by ex-
citing a desire to see what it is all about;
is of httle value to anyone else. There
are jets like these on nearly every page :
rr^ l tfr, n mu ! tlt u din ? us magnificence of variety in
for ar V nm i,Ch lfc ** «ut impossible
atten m ln,modeSt a ? d , irrational criticism to
and V i ’mate of this trilogy (Henry IV.
and V.) can be compared with nothing else in
»r ln “ A Midsummer Night’s
mae Lh!!° ( U v de as W ° U as above a]l possible or
imaginable criticism. “As You Like It”
. . . one of the most Hawless examples of noetic
and romantic dramatic drama interwoven rather
humor that ever cast its charm upon eternity.
No wonder Tolstoy says “ Come off! ” It is
quite time that the Immortal Works of
(Shakespeare for short) had a rest.
Shaw on Chesterton
i I see that Chesterton has been writing on
fehaw. I have by me an article by Shaw,
principally on Chesterton. It appeared in a
xatlier thoughtful English weekly, The
ai j4 dea * s witil some aspects of
Chesterton which might be found agreeably
interesting at the present time. Shaw I
tancy, is inclined to deride Chesterton’s
assumed, or real, belief in the marvellous.
Chesterton may credit the incredible • he
may believe m fairies and hippogrifis ; ’but,
according to Shaw, there are some miraeles
,hat are too miraculous for even his readv
acceptance. Says Shaw with some exultance :
On a recent occasion I tried to drive him to
iwaHow the miracle of St. Januarius ...but at
hat he struck. He pleaded his belief in the
resurrection story. He pointed out very justly
C ] l,n - S Jwst as miraculous
s the Mnaole of St. Januarius; but when I
emorselessly pressed the fact that he did not
relieve that the blood of St. Januarius reliquefies
miraculously every year, the Credo stuck in his
throat like Amen in Macbeth’s,
Yet Shaw has all the admiration of a dili-
gent self-advertiser for Chesterton, the unob-
trusive and inoffensive ;
i Now Chesterton might be trusted anywhere
without a policeman. He might knock at a doo
f, nd r « n j*way-perhaps even lie down across th
threshoM to trip up the emergent householder
LLm ifT7r id be h crimes o
imagination and humor, not of malice He
friendly, easy-going, unaffected, gentle, magnan
mous, and genuinely democratic.
Naturally Shaw, as an austere philosopher
discovers rich entertainment in Chesterton’
jverpowering physical proportions and
illeged indulgence in the table :
He is the son of his mother, and his mother’s
lame is Marie Louise Grosjean. Who his father
vas will never matter to anyone who has seen G
i. Chesterton, or at least seen as much of him as
he limited range of human vision can take in at
mce. If ever a Grosjean lived and wrote Ins
nan e isTK.C 7 7 tOWei ' mg f ° re ifc -
kgain :
Whoever has studied Chesterton’s articles atten-
.vely for a few years past will have noticed that
hough they pro ess to deal with religion, politic*
nd literature, they all really come at last to a
lea for excess and outrageousness, especially in
atmg and drinking, and a heartfelt protest against
hav.amsm, tempered by a terrified admiration
md here I am irresistibly reminded of a
iirious resemblance between Chesterton and
>umas pere. To my mind, Chesterton is
ke Dumas pere m the face, while when he
wells affectionately on matters of nourish
cent, I instantly recall Dumas’ frequent
escriptions m his books of some wonderful
id beautiful meals.
G. K. CHESTERTON.
(From a pastel by Mrs. Barney in Putnam’s Magazine.)
i However, Shaw then creeps on to his mos
enthralling and inexhaustible subject— G. JJ
Shaw—and explodes a fallacy that intel
leetual brilliance is the outcome of generou
eating and drinking :
And now L will tear the veil from Chesterton’
inmost secret. Chesterton knows about me.
am the living demonstration of the fact tha
Chesterton’s work can be done on a teetotal and
vegetarian diet. . . . When he pleads that a tnai
cannot be brilliant, cannot be paradoxical, canno
shed imagination and humor prodigally over the
pages of democratic papers on ginger' beer and
macaroni, he will get the same inexorable reply
Cook at Bernard Shaw : he does not drink even
tea or coffee: his austerity shames the very saints
themselves; and yet who more brilliant? who
more paradoxical? who more delightful as a
ournalist ? And has lie not himself assured us
■nat the enormous superiority shown bv him in
loing everything that you do. and writing epoch-
narking plays to boot, is due solely to the superior-
ty of his diet.
h inally Shaw—still on Shaw—becomes
haracteristically provoking. After applaud-
ug his own abstinence in humorous defiance
!. Chesterton’s order of living, lie accom-
plishes a somersault like this ;
Far from being an abstinent man, I am the
orst drunkard of a rather exceptionally drunken
irmly; for they were content with alcohol,
hereas I want something so much stronger that
would as soon drink paraffin oil as brandy,
owards drink alcohol to quiet their craving for
sal stimulants ; I avoid i t to keep my palate keen
n them. And lam a pitiable example of some-
nng much worse than the drink craze : to wit
le work craze. . I get miserably unhappy if
y work is cut off. I get hideous headaches after
.ch months bout: I make resolutions to break
yseif of it, never to work after lunch, to do only
hours a day ; but in vain : every day brings
s opportunity and temptation: the craving
asters me every time ; and I dread a holiday as
dread nothing else on earth. Let Chesterton
ke heart, then : it is he who is the ascetic and 1
e voluptuary.
1 like Shaw on Chesterton, but I do not
ink I shall ever like Chesterton on Shaw,
'inehow I do not care for Chesterton on
ything. I have read him on such diverse
pics as determinism and the structural
auties of a pig ; I have tried courageously
follow him in a criticism of, say, the Nietz-
lean levival of aristocracy,; I have even at-
npted to suspeet him of Pantheism and a
3sion for metaphysical meditation on the
dity which is Chesterton—but I must
ifess that Chesterton beats me. Ido not
ow what he is or what he professes to
sach. I only know that his scintillations
ke one gasp—but his logic makes one
3p !
JEAN SOLBI.
Contributors are reminded that Best Lines of
Australian Verse should be sent in before 18th
November. Single lines preferred, of course.
In the event of the winning quotation being
sent by more than one, the prise money will
go to the sender whose letter reached us first.


uatfyayjiQcdemsJfye
Stylish Underskirts
D
at Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
rHE UNDERSKIRTS illustrated on this
page are particularly attractive, inasmuch
as they are cut and trimmed in the latest style
and represent the newest ideas. Special care
has been exercised in the selection of materials,
v/hilstthe make and finish are in every case the
best. The lengths range from 39 to 42 inches,
and the colors include all the Season’s
Favorite Shades.
The prevailing modes, direct from the
realms where Fashion reigns supreme, are
illustrated in our Art Fashion Portfolio.
Write for a copy, posted free on application.
i
1
m
. ***\
-JS-
-3353
880
2802
m
M s
2575
3433^
3to\'
i
3186
3374
m
■ '
■■■;•:■..■"■
3402
2594
r
■
.
mL
2943
13
J 29
m,
I
-
mm
m
29
■
I
82919
m
mtx.
tm
-■■■
M
m
"
0
'
Xu. 2802—MOIRETTE UNDERSKIRT, 15in. Flounce, beautifully
tucked and Accordeon Pleated, Box Pleated Frill, Self Colors, Black,
Navy, Brown, etc. —Women's, 295. Cd. ; Outsize, 355. 6d.
No. 880—SILK UNDERSKIRT, Min. Flounce, trimmed with two and
three rows of tucks, Black, White, Sky, Navy, Wedgwood, Helio-
trope, Mole—Women’s, 21s. ; Outsize, 245. 6d.
No. 3353—MOIRETTE UNDERSKIRT, 15in. Flounce, tucked in fancy
design, Box Pleated Frill, Black and Self Colors—-Women’s, 12s. 6d.;
Outsize, 14s. 6d.
No. 3433—MOIRETTE UNDERSKIRT, 15in. Flounce gathered.
Accordeon Pleated and tucked, Box Pleated Frills, Black and Self
Colors —Women’s, 15s. 6d. ; Outsize, 18s. 6d.
No. A2S7S—BLACK SATEEN UNDERSKIRT, 12in. Flounce, trimmed
with 17 tucks —Women’s, 6s. 6d. ; Outsize, 7s. 6d.
No. 3708—MOIRETTE UNDERSKIRT, 16in. Flounce, diagonal tucks,
Box Pleated Frill, Black and Self Colors—Women’s, 215.; Outside, 24/6.
No. 3374— MOREEN UNDERSKIRT, Flounce tucked in fancy
design, Frill gathered and tucked, Black and Self Colors—Women’s,
Bs. 6d. ; Outsize, 9s. 9d.
No. A3IB6—BLACK SATEEN UNDERSKIRT—Min. Flounce, nicely
trimmed —Women’s, ss. 6d. ; Outsize, 6s. 6d.
No. 3729— MOREEN UNDERSKIRT, Min. Flounce, nicely tucked in
plain and-fancy design, Black and Self Colors—Women’s, 6s. 9d. ;
Outsize, 7s. lid.
No. F2SS9—BLACK SATEEN UNDERSKIRT, 12in. Flounce, tucked
and Accordeon Pleated—Women’s, Bs. 6d. ; Outsize, 10s. 6d.
No. A2S94—BLACK SATEEN UNDERSKIRT, 15in. Flounce, Accor-
deon Pleated and tucked—Women’s, 7s. lid. ; Outsize, Bs. lid.
No. 3402— MOREEN UNDERSKIRT, Flounce. Box Pleated and
tucked, Frill Accordeon Pleated, Black, Yieux Rose, Sky, etc. —
Women’s, 10s. 6d. ; Outside, 12s. 6d.
No. J297B—ZEPHYR UNDERSKIRT. Woven Stripes, 15in. Flounce,
nicely trimmed, Heliotrope, Grey, Navy, Sky, Grounds —Women’s,
7s. Od. ; Outsize, Bs. 9d.
No. LIII3—MOIRETTE UNDERSKIRT, with 13in. Silk Flounce,
nicely tucked and gathered. Black, Sky, Brown, Navy, White—
Women’s, 235. Od. ; Outsize, 265. 6d.
No. 2943—ZEPHYR UNDERSKIRT, 15in. Flounce, tucked and
gathered, Self Colors —Women’s. ss. 6d. ; Outsize, 6s. 6d.
No. B29I9—BATISTE UNDERSKIRT, Self Colors, 15in. Flounce,
trimmed with six half-inch tucks, Sky, Navy, Pink—Women’s
only, 6s. 6d.
No. 3004—PRINT UNDERSKIRT, light grounds, Fancy Stripes, 9in.
Flounce —-Women’s, 3s. ; Outside, 3s. 9d.
No. 2985—PRINT UNDERSKIRT, medium ground. Stripes, llin.
| Flounce, with two Frills—Women’s, 4s. Od.; Outsize, ss. 3d.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace E-mporitim,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Becitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cattle—Causes,
Symptoms, Treatment.
I/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
fasdia, latest edition, 1248
paffes, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Fallenkr’s Original Book
ok Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 0, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How-to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer. 1/..
m~AHD ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
* \*
►\;u/ #
V 2
Diminishing-
Cards.
O r d i nary
Playing
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
the)’ dissolve
altoye ther.
Co mplete,
with full in-
struct! ons ;
anyone can
work them.
29,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are (])The Lightning
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each •
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-’
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
THE RELIABLE
B DULL A
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLAVORED.
HAVE SECURED THIS
MARKET BY ACTUAL
MERIT.
CIGARETTES
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/6 per 100.
Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100. Suitable-for-pipe'smokers.
No. 17, Virginian, 0/6 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth from leading Tobacconists, or write the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
who will acquaint you of the nearest supplier, or post to you direct till an agent is appointed.
Postage—Added, per 100 to your remittance.
p
D
That
name
f- na i me ~° n your Saddli" can* l ensure
whfch depends C your" 1 health COt % Q s upon
whTS -IxrgSSggsS^te n h e a s t s is
?e^ R °g? S yo ~ s^S3 tsn, 1; - a „ ? it *
StccKed by all Agents
free from
Saddle Manual
J. B. BROOKS & CO. LTD.,
Tlw Saddle Specialists,
BIRMINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
O
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
.. ' '
v » % v v v v.-v n_ *
t- ■«■ V * & V 1 •
<* i i
;i(in|ilii«fjiji!fn!'
CLOSED AS COUCH.
'Si
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND ° n ® ecu^ity or" Freehold or Leasehold
_ v City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
ot Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing: Borrowers the privilege of repaying
n up to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
iRKCTORs— The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
snort, Esq. ; The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. K Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
rip, n ’ Es 9'' K - General .Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Fiill Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful, lourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of super!) and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elseivhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICGS, Local Director.
PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFIT FOR 1
THE IMPRIMIS
:>ht SHILLINGS
CAMERA
QUARTER PLATE SIZE, 4# x INCHES
WITH VIEW FINDER
Free Book on Photography for Early Bayers
BRITISH
MADE
. ■ sis
/. N
DOUBLE DARK-
SLIDE.
Printing Frame
DEVELOPING
AND FIXING
CHEMICALS.
DRY PLATES
PRINTING PAPER
CARD MOUNTS
FULL DIRECTIONS'
Only 8/-
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
niHIS is the last
A, chance of buying
a cheap Photo-
graphic Outfit. It
would be impossible
to sell at this price If
these goods had not
been landed before
the imposition of the
new tariff, that has
nearly doubled the
duty. The Imprimis
Camera is British
made. It takes
Full-size Quar-
ter Plate Pic-
tures, 4 H x 314
inches (about the size
of this advt.), that
are large enough for
Flne landscapes anti Interior Views. The Shutter makes time and
Instantaneous exposures and there is a good View Finder. The back is hinged and fitted with a
special earner for the double dark slide (as illustrated). With each Camera will be supplied a
Double Dark Slide, a Printing Frame, Dry Plates, Printing Paper, Card Mounts, Developing and
Fixing Chemicals and Full Printed Instructions. We have nearly 100 Books on Elementary
Photography, and, while they last, one will be enclosed without charge with each Camera if you
n 3 ,il apCr 7 hCn ,.°l 'F h ® buyers Ret the books. The price of the
Complete Outfit as described is ON L Y EIGHT SHILLINGS, and we pay carriage
to any address m the world. If you want a Camera, order at once; do not delay, or you may
be disappointed, and miss the Free Book. . Send Postal Notes of any State.
THE UNION COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
STEVENS
Famous Time= Honored Rifles
ARE THE WORLD’S STANDARD !
The London Championship was won at the Beckton Rifle Meeting,
April 12th, 13th and 14th, 1909, by J, Clarke, of the Southfields
Rifle Club, using a
STEVENS IDEAL RIFLE.
Order
STEVENS
from your
Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[3
For the NERVES and BLOOD
NOTHING EQUALS
CLEMENTS
TONIC.
MB.. TOM PAYNE, one of the leading comedians
of the Cinderella Opera Co., Sydney, is high in his praise
of this great blood and nerve restorer, and writes of it as
follows :
’3NAVd lAIOJ. ‘HIM
K-:
Cleirnts Tonic Ltd.,
Cinderella Opera Co.,
Criterion Theatre, 10/9/’O9.
“Since residing in Australia I have experienced great lassitude, nervousness and
lack of energy, due, I am sure, to your climate, new to me. In my profession nerve
strength and health are necessary to perform arduous comic parts. The strain is
always on the nerves to nightly satisfy the public. Finding myself run down and
far from well, I was advised to take your Clements Tonic (the recognised Australian
standard remedy for weak nerves), with the result that I now have splendid health,
a pleasure to enjoy. The invigorating, nerve-strengthening properties of your tonic
are undoubtedly beyond question.”
Witness—C. Lovely, J.P.
(Signed) TOM PAYNE.
Professional people should keep Clements Tonic always when travelling
or following their duties, especially in the hot summer months, when
the heat is oppressive and the nervous system prostrated. The effect of
its use will be to create good nerves and appetite, strengthen the system
and enrich the blood, giving immediate benefit. All chemists and store-
keepers sell it. 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per bottle. Keep it always in the house.
Manufactured
solely by
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., BALMAIN.


mr
'Oja /
i
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
. daily to a wo-
l man. If your
hair falls out, is
too thin, or is los-
i .
ing its color, use
tiller’d
Stair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff,
and will give you thick, long,
glossy, and beautiful hair.
Accept no substitute. Be
sure you get Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and preserve the rich-
ness and luxuriance of your
hair to an advanced period
of life.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
fdhfd
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of ua. Your
money In full refunded without quration
if uot perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year l , despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
MODE 3 £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hobs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, Tariable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port In the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
■wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our * uec'ol ojfer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., Dept. 280 Liverpool.
TTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
il of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
Gladys Easton
41 College Street, Newtown,
N.S.W. , was so weak after whooping
cough, that for 4 months she was
unable to walk. “At last,”
Mrs. Easton writes (29,8 07), *‘l
gave SCOTT’S Emulsion
and progress was then
so rapid that within a
lew weeks she was
completely restored to
health.” The reason why
SCOTT’S Emulsion cures weakness
is not far to seek; it is in the
Emulsion itself—purest ingredients,
perfectly and palatably combined
by the unique SCOTT process.
SCOTT’S Emulsion is the standard
Emulsion, standard in the one quality
needful in sickness—the power to
cure. No other emulsion has ever
reached this standard, when cures
are counted.
Of all chemists and dealers in medicines.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CURE!
'(V
fl/tf
puL-MQ
bpth
CRR£ OF THE t-UNC j
\’/y4^h-
, THROAT DI SEAS els , iH
RESULT OF SCIENCE—
Bonningtons is a special process
for compounding Carrageen or Irish Moss
(Chrondrus C.rispus), obtained from the
West Coast of Ireland. . The Irish Moss
in its crude state has many uses but it
was left to that skilful chemist—George
Bonnington—to so combine this product
with other ingredients to produce the
splendid chest medicine known as—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.
This remedy has a world wide reputation lor the cure of Coughs and Colds
and Affections of the Chest, Throat and Lungs. It has been in constant use
for upwards of 45 years. The most persistent cough will yield to its influence
and be permanently cured. It has proved its worth to other people—let it
do so for you.
PRICE 1/6 & 2/6 PER BOTTLE. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORDS Essence of Coffee,
•• OXJfC JACK*’ Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
PERFECT
lIIOHIEH
are not flat-cheated
and thin-limbed.
Nature intended
every woman to be
decently developed,
with a full, well-
rounded bosom.
Don’t stay thin.
[5
<jg>
ns
DR. FALLIERE’S
“ FLESH=FOOD”
will increase your weight by as much as five
pounds a week, and will add inches to your
measurements. It is a scientific bust
developer, a medicated tissue food, harmless
and efficacious. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and Free Descriptive Book.
FALLIERE “ FLESH-FCOD” CO.
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horllck’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
WOOD - MILNE
SHOESHINES
Black and Brown
Mud does not stick, rain does
not penetrate, fog does not
dim the Shoes that shine with
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHINES.
Try one tin and test it
for yourself.
Of all bootmen.
2995
hfd
> When Mosquitoes annoy you \
* remember how useful, either for pre- \
) venting the attack of these and other S
* insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found (
Calvert’s |
20 % Carbolic Soap, i
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11 /.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS 1
Messrs .Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared bs I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemiet
25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER,
Himyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
t£X*22l9
HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
BOVRIL
Tempts you to Eat and Feeds you.
Whether at home, at the office, in the restaurant, or in the
a cup of Bovrll is easily and quickly procured.
ALWAYS INSIST UPON BOVRIL, ANO SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Figtree Lane.
Figtree Lane rots thirty
Feet below the road.
Wall-eyed, dank and dirty,
’Tis a drear abode.
Half-way down to Hell it
Lurks where no one knows ;
Wayfarers may smell it
When the north wind blows.
Figtree Lane’s half-rotten
Hovels flank big stores,
Vermin-filled, forgotten ;
Round them traffic roars.
Save one battered fig tree
Not a green thing lives ;
Springtime days the big tree,
Filled with grace, forgives.
Figtree Lane’s rank soil’s not
Fertile save of sin ;
Lily-like, it toils not.
Neither doth it spin;
Yet the hand it stretches,
Idly, sows in sleep,
Broadcast, crops that wretches
Greedily will reap,
Figtree Lane hates daylight;
Night hours reek with crime,
Seldom doth a ray light
Backyard dirt and slime;
Figtree Lane loves darkness—
Sundown sees it creep,
Grim with sodden starkness,
From unholy sleep.
Figtree-lane lies sin deep;
Nightly, year by year,
Figtree-iarie swims chin-deep
In raw gin and beer.
Uptown flaunts her rowdy,
Swell and gay ma’m’selle,
Figtree trails her dowdy,
Drab skirts down in Hell.
Figtree-lane is ugly;
Yet, surprising nigh,
Church-eaves nestle smugly
’Mid green trees and high.
Blows are signs of favor
Down in Figtree lairs ;
Beauty seeks a, safer
Market for her wares.
Uptown surges brightly.
Gay with girls and men ;
Figtree Lane swoons whitely
In an opium den ;
Chinese trash and Dago,
Hutched with larrikin,
Soak, a red farrago
Polyglot with sin.
Figtree Lane’s wild revels
Rip the night, as ’twere
Loosed from Tophet, devils
Find Nirvana there.
Figtree Lane rots hidden
Deep from public scan ;
He that comes unbidden
Goes a wiser man !
N.s.w.
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Wood of Eight.
That white Witch-Maiden, the moon, had crept
To her cavern far away,
As on through the wood of night we swept
To the golden plains of day.
Black, black trees, and thin and tall,
They watch us from every side. . . .
The owls are silent; no sound at all
There is save our horse’s stride.
Some moth for an instant brushed my face.
As, out of the night that lies
On our small horizons, for one breath’s space
A dream looks in our eyes.
The sky is thin and pale as a glass
That a breath makes dull and gray,
As out of the wood of night we pass
To the fresh sweet fields of day.
The hills lie low and dim to the right,
A coldness grows on the air ;
And a pale wind stays its wandering flight
And stirs like a ghost in my hair.
And the east was a rose with petals of flame,
The stars had withered away,
When out of the wood of night we came
To the bonny fields of day.
N.s.w.
FRITZ G. BURNELL.
When Comes the End.
When soon or late they make my grave
And cast me in, I ask no prayer—
No mumbled rite my soul to save,
But just the clods—and leave me there.
And when their thankless task is done,
And I am settled in my bed,
Of all the winds there may be one
To come and bluster round my head.
One good-for-nothing, wastrel wind
On roving tracks for ever set —
For I have loved his vagrant kind,
Who never loved a dogma yet.
And haply, too, through Death’s soft sleep
The fret of discontented tides
That cannot rest may sometimes creep
To where a restless comrade bides.
■/ } *
The Pagan rains that winter brings
Will not avoid my graceless mound ;
Year after year impartial Springs
Will smile on blest and unblest ground.
O’er saint and me glad days will break.
And when the}' wane to sombre dusk
A myriad stars will nightly take
Their watch above my unshrived husk.
And so, when comes the end for me,
No bribing of the gods I trust;
But just the clods and let me be,
To come at length to honest dust.
N.s.w.
P. J. D.


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING'S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Sapper Parties can be
en gfaged for four to 30 persons. Banqaeting Room for
250. Seatingf accommodation for 700 g-aests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL. FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 3.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can be purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12,2/6.
A Feature of “THE BURLINGTON” is the
FISH AND OYSTER. CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen's Retiring Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
■Under Vice>Reg'al
hfdh
Patro nao,
The MESSES ISAACS
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkrio,
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castiereaprh Streets.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/8.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
il I
O/'IEQA
The Watch of
Matchless Merit
THE WATCHWORD IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy’*—accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts —accuracy in assembl-
ing them—and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepers in the world.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
«A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/'
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
r -wmimi i.i iiiMim—m i narra-j-.T ...a.. . . ,vaa»t Ksataa
(Australian made)
. - I L : ,4
and others.
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
The THIN BLACK LINE
-.1 ' " ' ' ’ ,
that protects you perfectly and
permanently against damp.
MSS
m-.
?% *. &t i; f'Ui \, «££f: i'l-ii; &wW
-illliiw-uj in.iir.ii_ <«r»»*tag*!!'s.
I-* #***<
HMMm
*wWw«»js»^
• Til • ;v>*2
*8«
■ Vi /, ■■■.»»*—■-/ ' ' ‘ V
JWtjPlMi'. Ii ■ — -»-* *
•*iW
*
~v
?«
*
IP
Inks
fHP
E
-
•t | ;
-•■
cat
■>-.
e»5
SSS
.
RUBEROID
CO., LTD., SYDNEY and BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1551.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1909.
Price On.
IMPROVED RELATIONS BETWEEN THE STATE AND THE COMMONWEALTH.
State Premier Wade remarked in a recent speech that his Government was getting on much better with the present Australian Ministry than with its predecessors.
The Boss of the Household (to his neat-handed servitor): “I am very much pleased with you, Mary Jane. I have noticed that there is far less
friction since you came.” 1
Mary Jane Deakin: “Yes, sir! Thank you, sir! I hope I know my place, sir, and I always try to do what I’m told.”
The Boss (impressively): “Yes, Mary Jans, neatness, courtesy and prompt obedience are essentials to one in your station.”


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1909,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 9.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Norman Lindsay and
other leading representative artists, will be the
finest Black and White work obtainable in Austra-
lia, and will reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly * ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tun Biii.lf.tin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin would oblige the payer
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by -name. “ The Editor. Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for ‘‘copy.’’ Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 5000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which, has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
Neio Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Oflice, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Ilong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size biin. x lUin,,
will be forwarded, on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
7^e^^xzlle^x//L.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1909.
HIGH WATER MARK: THE LATEST
FEDERAL CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT.
It is only part of the' natural order of things that
Australia should discover that it has fallen into
another unexpected pit in the matter of the
Federal Capital agreement. The incredible mean-
ness and police-court sharpness of N.S.W. State
Premier Wade in his political doings, and the
almost unbelievable abjectness of Prime Minister
Deakin since he fell under the Cook and Wade
influence are calculated to make any pit or
orifice possible. When the Yass-Canberra
capital first came on the board the influence
which dragged it through—which secured the
final vote or two whereby Yassberra was made
possible—was the promise of a Federal port at
Jervis Bay. Certainly it was to be an awkward
kind of port, separated by many miles of State
land from the rest of the Federal territory and
from the Federal capital. And it was to be a
doubtfully legal port, seeing that the bay is only
87 miles from Sydney, and the Constitution says
that the Seat of Government must be at least 100
miles from Sydney, so if the law happens to de-
cide that the term “ Seat of Government” covers
the whole Federal capital territory the Jervis Bay
port can’t be held by the Commonwealth. And
it proved later on that there was to be very little
of a port, legal or otherwise—there was to be no
surrenderof Jervis Bay, butmerely the transferof a
scrap of seashore at one corner of the inlet. These
were all serious drawbacks, but still the advan-
tages of Jervis Bay as a sea-outlet were trumpeted
far and wide, and, thanks to the coarse arrogance
of Wade, and the flabbiness of Deakin and
Fisher, and the subservience of Hughes and
Watson to the Tory press of Sydney, the Yass-
berra site commanded a majority despite all
drawbacks. Now it proves at the last that there
is to be no Federal port at Jervis Bay after all.
There is to be a Federal railway to the coast, if
the thing is worth building, and a bit of Federally
owned land there—at least, the bit of land is to be
conceded in a limited sort of way which won’t
give the Commonwealth any sovereign rights
over it, so it won’t really be Federal
land at all. And such shadowy rights as the
Commonwealth will possess are only to extend to
high-water mark. Between high-water and low-
water mark is to be State property. The water
opposite the alleged Federal port is also to be
State property. Now ships can’t come up to
high-water mark, and even a canoe can only sail
that far at certain conditions of the tide. The
Federal Government, it seems, isn’t to have a
place where it can build a wharf or accommodate
even as much commerce as a ketch can carry—it
is only to have a view of the great deep from its
front window. That is what the promised
Federal portion the strength of which certain
trusting Parliamentary fools were induced to
accept the Yassberra capital site, has come
down to.
« » * *
It is difficult to realise that anybody outside a
thieves’ den would have devised and worked such
a disgraceful political trick, but the fact that the
N.S.W. State Government has worked it seems
apparent enough. And it is hard to believe that
anything wearing the outward semblance of a
male politician should not only have accepted the
proposal but agreed to lend it his countenance ;
yet Alfred Deakin seems to have done both
these things rather than risk his precarious job.
Wade’s faithful political slave, Senator Millen
of the Fused Government, had even the effrontery
to express surprise that any other Senator should
object to see Australia thuslef t with a mere grant of
certain shadowy rights over an alleged port with-
out any water attached, and he had the cast-iron
assurance to ask in an injured tone if it was
imagined
that the New South Wales Government would erect some
obstruction between low and high water-mark ?
It is surely unnecessary to ask vain questions of
the kind at this stage of the three-card trick. It
is dead certain that the N.S.W. Government in-
tends to prevent commerce reaching the alleged
Federal port. There is no other possible reason
why it should demand the power to prevent com-
merce reaching the so-called Federal port. The
confidence dodge always ends the same way. When
the well-dressed person with the beaming expres-
sion asks to be trusted either with a jiurseora
port, in order that he may have a chance to show
his complete honesty by not takingdown the lender,
he invariably disappears round the corner and
fails to come back. Wade’s attitude is that the
Commonwealth is a guileless babe in the woods
which must have its harbor held in trust for it by
its kind uncle Gregory, who states —and his poli-
tical buttoner backs him up—that he is above
suspicion. But the kind uncle represents a
Government which has consistently followed the
policy of forcing all N.S.W. commerce to go to
Sydney, even when the bringing of the commerce
to Sydney involved 250 miles of costly needless
haulage. And when that Government proposes,
plainly and obviously, to force the trade of the
Federal capital to Sydney by making the Federal
harbor at Jervis Bay a mere dry land jest it is
only following out its regular policy. If Senator
Millen doesn’t know all about this, then he is a
duller Senator that he looks. The Bulletin
gives him credit for not being a dull Senator—
only a politically shameless and unscrupulous
party hack.
* * * *
The fact that the Federal port at Jervis Bay is
to be a mere dry harbor was not the only surprise
that was sprung upon the Senate hist week.
When the Australian Parliament accepted the
Yass-Canberra site it was moved thereto by a
number of considerations. One was the alleged
Federal port above mentioned. Another was the
alleged fertility of the country around Quean-
beyan in the'proposed Federal capital area. Still
another was the alleged splendid water supply
to be derived from the Queanbeyan and
Molonglo rivers. All these things^—the port,
the fertile country, and the two rivers—
helped to beguile the Australian Parliament into
the acceptance of Yassberra. Then N.S.W.
State Premier Wade, the man who runs the show
and gives his orders to the humble Deakin per-
son, began to make variations. In the first place,
he altered the Federal capital territory by an off-
hand proceeding in the N.S.W. State Parliament,
and cut out Queanbeyan and the fertile land
thereabouts. The new Federal territory fixed by
Wade lies almost wholly in the county of Cowle3 7 ,
and the barrenness thereof can be ganged by the
fact that, though it is an old and long-settled
county, not far from Sydney and adjacent to two
important railway lines, its population at the
date of last census was less than seven peopje to
ten (10) square miles. Of the adjacent counties,
Buccleuch had at the same date 18 people to
10 square miles, Harden had 62, Murray
had 40, Beresford had 32, and Wallace
had 18. In fact, State Premier Wade,
exercising his usurped authority in a large, loose,
casual way, removed the Federal capital territory
into a district which, if it can be judged by
its population, is the least promising in eastern
N.S.W. It has even a rather smaller population
per square mile than the county of Cowper, out
on the Darling, and its rainfall gets down to llin.,
which is about the same as the record of Alice
Springs in the middle of Australia. This shifting
of the capital makes it much more remote
from its Federal port on Jervis Bay, but as it
now transpires that the Federal port isn’t to have
any water, and that the Commonwealth isn’t to
own its professed harbor in full sovereignty after
all, and that it is only to possess the track of the
connecting railway on sufferance, it hardly matters
how far the city and the port lie apart.
When Wade moved the Federal capital
site on his own exclusive State authority,
the Queanbeyan and Molonglo Creeks—the
allegedly lavish water supply which was one
of the great arguments in favor of the Yass-
berra capital—were cut out of the scheme ; but
people who were inclined to object were pacified
by the assurance that, though these streams were
no longer in the Federal territory, their waters
would be reserved for the use of the Federal city
if necessary. So there was a feeling of satisfaction
until it transpired last week that, though these
waters are to be reserved for the benefit of the
Federal city, they are not to be “permanently”
reserved. It is to be just the kind of reser-
vation which the N.S.W. State Government can
revoke at any time. Of course, the State Govern-
ment professes that it would be very wrong to
suspect it of intending to do such a thing, but if
it isn’t going to do just that thing why is it so
clamorous for the power to do it? And seeing
that its past record is about as shocking as any-
thing can be, it seems time for everybody who
has dealings with it to give up taking a single
matter on trust. Furthermore, the Senate dropped
to the fact, when it perused the Wade-Deakin
agreement, that while the men who are employed in
building the Federal railway from the Federal city
to the dry Federal port are authorised to obtain
certain necessary materials from the adjacent
N.S.W. territory, they are not authorised to
obtain water. As even the most abstemious
navvy may want a drink of N.S.W. water, it was
proposed that they should have the free run of
the Cornstalk fluid where it was lying around
loose, but the proposal was objected to and
thrown out.
* * * *
It is all an unhappy complication born of
parochialism, narrow-mindedness and anti-Aus-
tralianism. When the unfortunate proviso was
first sneaked into the Constitution that the Aus-
tralian capital must be in N.S.W., the members
from the other States lost a good deal of their
interest in the matter, and it was left too much
to the N.S.W. representatives. N.S.W. is
the least Federal and the least Australian
of the States—a fact of which the voting
at the Federal referendum is evidence. It is the
State above all others in which Australia is
regarded as an enemy and the Commonwealth as
a hostile and foreign institution. It is also a
State which has gone solidly on the theory that
all trade must be dragged to Sydney at whatever
cost. Therefore ports like Twofold Bay, Jervisßay
and Port Stephens have been kept rigorously
isolated, and, as the natural result of this policy,
the idea of a Federal port at Jervis Bay or any-
where else is regarded in State political circles as
a curse and a public wrong. The policy of
N.S.W. politicians has been to keep Sydney para-
mount as the one great city of the State, there-
fore it is held that the Federal city must
be kept down and discouraged and reduced
to the status of a mere village. The theory
of the N.S.W. State politicians is that it
is incompatible with the dignity of N.S.W.
to have the Federal capital anywhere except in
N.S.W., and at the same time it is incompatible
with the dignity of N.S.W. that any city or port
within its borders should rival, or even pretend to
rival, Sydney. At the same time, the Sydney
morning papers, which have been accustomed to
boss N.S.W., require that the Australian capital
must be near enough to Sydney to enable them to
command its business and circulation, and to boss
it also. These are the doctrines of Gregory
Wade, to whom Sydney is the whole world, and
of Joe Cook who is the same as Gregory Wade,
and nowadays of Alfred Deakin who depends
for his billet on Cook, who depends upon
Wade, who depends upon the Sydney morning
papers. Amid all these petty scramblings the one
thing that is never remembered is that Australia
is a continent with a future—the only continent
in the world’s history which has had one people,
one language, one Government and one flag—and
that it has as good a right to own a stately, pro-
gressive capital as Greece or Switzerland or Chili
or Mexico or any other old place.
* * *
Senator St. Ledger, of Queensland, who is of
the Joe Cook and the politically-degenerate
Deakin party, lately expounded the craving of
the small anti-Australian party for a mean Aus-
tralian capital in about the fewest words that
would cover the case. He said (Federal Hansard,
page 4712)
I express the hope that the Federal capital will never
be a city of very large population. ... A population of
from 50,000 to 60,000 is as large a population as I think we
can expect to have in the Federal capital within 60 or 70
years after it has-been established. ... I think it will
prove to be an advantage to establish the Federal capital
in a district WHICH IS CAPABLE OF SUPPORTING
A COMPARATIVELY SMALL POPULATION The
capital should not be a city of overwhelming importance.
... I regard it as one of the reasons in favor of the
establishment of the capital in the Yass-Canberra dis-
trict that it is not likely that, in that district, we shall have
established a city likely to approach, for a very long time,
the dimensions of Washington, for instance.
So, after all the assurances that the advantages of
Yassberra lie in its fertility and beauty, a
prominent Yassberra-ite arises to say that he
desires to see the capital fixed there on
account of the wretchedness of the place and the
fact that it is only “ capable of supporting a com-
paratively small population.” The true paro-
chialist —the individual to whom his State is
everything and Australia at large is a foreign
land and an enemy—makes it a sine qua non that
the Australian capital must be placed where it
can never be more than a quiet country town,
something below even the smallest State capital
in importance. The'barrenness of Yassberra is
thus one of its recommendations, and it seems to
be very barren indeed. The whole county of
Cowley had only 563 acres under wheat in 1899,
and even this area was gradually abandoned till
it had only six acres under wheat in 1908, and six
acres wheat in 1158 square miles seems practi-
cally the limit. The N.S.W. “Statistical Re-
gister” (pages 527-528) gives details of the wheat
area in 1908 for 74 counties, and the county of
Cowley had the worst figures of all. It
also gave the total area under cultivation in
106 counties, and Cowley (940 acres and
steadily decreasing) was the worst, bar 12.
The local drought is another recommendation ;
the nearest observing station shows the lowest
rainfall bar one in all the coastal and tableland
districts. To the anti-Australian these are all
advantages. But the shocking facts are mostly
disguised by Wade and Cook and Deakin, for
there are many good patriots about who don’t see
why their capital should be the meanest white
man’s metropolis on earth. It is only now and
then that there arises a wildly-frank politician
like Mr. Sledger to state that he admires Yass-
berra because it is a poor devil of a spot only
“capable of supporting a comparatively small
population.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Vegetables of Yassberra and of Other
Places.
A year or so ago, when Dalgety, in the county of
Wallace (N.S.W.), was still the selected site of the
Australian capital, quite a number of people were
shocked almost to death at the alleged barrenness
of the place. Joseph Carruthers, of Sydney,
was broken up at the lack of fertility thereabouts.
Wade, of Sydney, was almost a mental wreck
when he considered the hungry nature of the soil
and the unfitness of the whole locality. Richard
Teece, of Sydney and of the A.M.P. Society,
visited the Dalgety district and diagnosed it as a
place where things wouldn’t grow and which was
quite unsuited for ordinary human habitation.
Not one individual in the whole crowd had the
honesty to state that the real objections to the
Monaro capital were these three :
(1) It isn’t near enough to Sydne3’ to enable that port
to annex all its trade.
(2) It isn’t near enough to Sydney to enable the Sydney
Tory morning papers to arrive there early and secure all
the business. In fact, it is so far away from both Sydney
and Melbourne that a capital thereabouts would be liable
to develop a democratic and Federal-minded press of its
own, and refuse to be controlled by any State Rights
papers published in purely parish-minded interests.
(3) It has such advantages in the way of water power
that a Federal city placed there might be an imposing
Australian capital and the manufacturing rival of Mel-
bourne and Sydney, which, considered from the stand-
point of State Frights, would be too —too horrible.
But as these mean little sentiments couldn’t with
decency be uttered aloud, all the State Frighters
of last year and the previous year or two professed
to be shocked, in the best and highest interests of
Australia, at the hungry character of the proposed
capital site, and they wanted to give Australia
something better. So Dalgety, in the county of
Wallace, was abandoned, and the new' Yassberra
site, which lies mostly in the county of Cowley,
much nearer to Sydney and much handier to the
offices of the S. M. Herald and Telegraph, was
selected in its stead. And, lest anybody should
be suspected of being a sham or a hypocrite or any-
thing like that, The Bulletin hastens to dig out
of the latest N.S.W. “Statistical Register” and
from the N.S.W. census return of 1901 these evi-
dences of the fertility of the two places:—
County County
of of
Wallace Cowley
(Dalgety (Yassberra
site). site).
Population (1901) 3,915 793
Population per 100 square miles.. 182 68
Increase since 1891 459 110
Inhabited Dwelling's .. .. 691 164
Cultivated Area (acres) .. .. 4,527 940
Area under Wheat (acres).. .. 136 6
Wheat Crop (bushels) .. .. 1,096 48
Potatoes (tons) 407 53
Wheaten Hay (tons) .. .. 401 40
Barley (bushels) 156 Nil
Barley Hay (tons) .. .. .. 17 sJil
Oats (bushels) 2,596 &il
Oaten Hay (tons) .. .. .. 1,770 i)56
Rye (bushels).. .. .. .. 1,568 124
Lucerne Hay (tons).. .. .. 610 51
Honey (lb.) 4,646 4,135
Horses 4,698 1,370
Cows in Milk 2,095 444
Milk (gall.) 338,901 69,277
Other cattle 21,486 13,921
Sheep 387,221 196,434
Butter made (lb.) 76,031 12,653
Cheese (lb.) 2,775 Nil
Bacon and Haros (lb.) .. .. 34,761 11,969
The table might be extended a good deal further,
but it inclines to fill up too much space. Yet
these matters may be added
Of the seven counties included in the Southern table-
land division Cowley is the emptiest and the least inhabit-
able. Per square mile it has only one-sixth the average
population of the adjacent counties.
In 10 years its cultivated area has diminished from
1254 acres to 940 acres ; its wheat area from 563 acres to
six acres ; its horses from 1674 to 1370, and its dairy cows
from 751 to 444. In 1905 its other cattle numbered
15,257 ; at latest they were only 13,921.
Of course it is only an utterly brazen impostor
who pretends now that the objection to Dalgety
is its lack of fertility as compared with Yass-
berra. After moving the capital site from the
fertile Dalgety region to the glaringly barren and
dry and decaying county of Cowley, even the
worst political fraud and hypocrite can hardly
pretend that he is actuated by a desire to find a
fertile spot. So a new crowd has arisen, which
propounds the theory that the unfitness of the
Yassberra region is an actual recommendation.
Thus we have Senator Sledger holding forth to
this effect:—
1 express the hope that the Federal capital will never
be a city of very large population. ... A population of
from 50,000 to 60,000 is as large a population as I think we
can expect to have in the Federal capital within 60 or 70
years after it has been established. ... I think it will
prove to be an advantage to establish the Federal capital
in a district WHICH IS CAPABLE OF SUPPORTING
A COMPARATIVELY SMALL POPULATION The
capital should not be a city of overwhelming importance.
... I regard it as one of the reasons in favor of the
establishment of the capital in the Yass-Canberra dis-
trict that it is not likely, in that district, we shall have
established a city likely to approach, for a very long time,
the dimensions of Washington, for instance.
Also this is Senator Sayers, another Yassberra-ite,
on his own favorite capital site :
I suppose that if Canberra be made the capital site the
city will be partially deserted when Parliament is not
sitting. .. . We know that nobody will live in the capital
city except Government officers, with, of course, shop-
keepers and others who will supply their wants.
So the Yassberra capital now depends on the
votes of people who say that no one will live in it
except Government officers and shopkeepers.
Sayers and Sledger seem to regard the unpromis-
ing character of the place as an actual blessing.
Australia, in fact, is now in the marvellous posi-
tion that it is the only country on earth which
selects its capital on the ground that hardly any-
body will inhabit the beastly place.
A Letter from South Africa.
“Rooinek” (from Cape Colony) : S. Africa,
having decided to go in for Unification instead of
Federation, the Union Parliament is to be opened
some time next year. In the course of the contro-
versy, Australia was freely quoted as an example
of too loose a form of union. The members
of the S. African National Convention, though
they met in camera, have since made no secret of
the fact that Australia’s experience settled the
question for them. John X. Merriman, Premier
of Cape Colony, speaking at East London, said :
We must at all costs avoid getting into the position of
Australia to-day. There the local politicians have far too
much power, and imagine that they know better than the
men at the head of the affairs of all Australia, They may
be right—it is not for me to say ; but I do say that it is a
very unfortunate state of affairs.
The South African colonies are henceforth to be
called provinces. They are to be governed by
“Provincial Councils” of one house only with
elective Ministries, and each will have a
Lieutenant-Governor appointed by the Gover-
nor-General. The subjects upon which they
are to be allowed to legislate are strictly
defined, and all other legislation will be in
the hands of the Union Parliament. In fact.


the S. African Convention accomplished, in
one act, practically the whole of the programme
which The Bulletin has been advocating for
Australia for years past.
The Badly-Selected Fuller.
In the Reps, last week Minister Fuller intro-
duced the Federal Territory Bill, and, in the
language of the morning paper, “ quoted con-
vincing statistics with regard to the water supply”
of Canberra. Unfortunately, when the statistics
were looked up they proved to be the same old
figures about Cotter Creek—the ones sup-
plied by the Government of Wade the Won-
derful. The Federal Government appointed
a committee of experts—all N.S.W. men—
to report on the blessed Canberra site, and they
reported flatly that there were no special points
about it and that the Cotter could only be com-
pletely relied upon for the supply of a popu-
lation of 50,000. Promptly State Premier
Wade butted in. He sent along his own
figures, which professed to show that there was
abundant water for about 1,300,000 people;
and Wade’s humble and obedient dog, the
Deakin-Cook Ministry, laid aside the report
supplied to it by its own experts (that report is
never heard of nowadays), and accepted the
statements of its proprietor Wade. These were
the “convincing statistics” which Fuller
quoted ; the trouble about them is that hardly
anybody really believes them these days. It was
while he was holding forth most eloquently about
water that Fuller was tackled re the rainfall
records recently quoted by The Bulletin, and he
made a sorrowful effort to save his face by saying
this :
Of the list of 65 stations representing the coast and
tableland districts selected from the N.S.W. “ Statistical
Register,” it happens that 64 have a greater average rain-
fall than Queanbeyan.
Of the 95 stations selected from the “Statistical
Register” 19 are drier than Queanbeyan, but while 65 of
these places represent coastal and tableland districts
(one-third of the area of the State), the remaining 30
represent the western area of N.S.W., or two-thirdsof the
State.
It was about as honest a reply as a man with
Canberra on his mind could afford to give. But
as it happens, The Bulletin didn’t “select” the
observing stations at all. It published the whole
list from the latest N.S.W. “ Statistical Register,”
without trying to deceive anyone by “selecting”
those best suited to its purpose, and it proved by
N.S. W.’s own official figures that in all the coastal
and tableland country of N.S.W. the only drier
place than Queanbeyan, alongside the Canberra
capital site, is Cooma, the rainfall of which is sup-
posed to supply Canberra’s alleged rivers. It also
pointed out that Dalgety’s water supply comes
down from Kiandra, which has more than three
times Cooma’s rainfall. And on top of this
Minister Fuller’s answer directs attention to the
fact that even in the dry western area of N.S.W.
there are many places with a better rainfall than
the Yassberra district, and much better than the
region with the 19-inch rainfall from which Yass-
berra derives its water supply. Even Brewarrina,
away far west on the Darling, only gets, according
to Fuller’s printed figures, one-third of an inch
less rain per annum and Cobar 4frin. less than
Yassberra’s glorious water catchment up Cooma
way.
♦
The God that is Blind.
The Anglican Church Congress of Australia, sit-
ting in Perth, has been discussing a White Aus-
tralia. There were one or two who stood up for
racial purity; there were one or two who said,
“ with great reverence,” that Christ was a colored
man, and that it was therefore “ unchristian ” to
keep the colored man out; there were more who
wriggled, wanting to let the colored man in but
to “carefully draw a southern line of limitation.”
But, according to the daily-paper reports, there
was one who was frank :
The Archbishop of Brisbane said it had been proved be-
yond question that white men could work in the north.
But they demanded such high wages that it hardly
PAID TO EMPLOY THEM.
So “the only solution of the trouble” was “the
employment of indentured labor.” Not slave
labor, of course —“indentured” labor. That
sounds better. And there apparently are some
church dignitaries who think that God is blind
and only knows what He is told. So, if they
whisper “ Indentured labor ” softly and gently to
Him, as if they were speaking a benediction, He
won’t know that they mean slave labor and cheap
labor. Pie won’t know that in the back of their
minds is greed and the hankering after big divi-,
dends either for themselves or for the front pews.
He will be told that they want to knock down the
barriers against colored immigration because it is
“unchristian” to keep them up; and the God
they think is blind won’t know that they have
really done it because colored labor is cheap.
So “Christ was colored,” they say; “don’t let
us dishonor Christ by keeping the colored man
out.” What we will do with him when we have
got him—well, we won’t mention that; not to
Christ, anyway. Confidentially one to another
—and strictly on condition that it goes no farther
—we propose to make a slave of him in every-
thing but name. We propose to indenture him.
We propose to sweat him. We propose to hire
him—in bonds—to toil for us in the north while we
live in luxury in the south on the fruit of his
bonded labor. Let him in ! He is a countryman
of Christ’s. Let us honor Christ through him—
honor Christ by sweating the man of His color, by
holding him in bonds, by making of him a slave in
everything but name. This is Christianity, as it
seems to be taught by some of those who speak at
Church Congresses. And to-morrow the Congress
will probably discuss the relation of the Church
and the masses, and express pained surprise that
the tinkle of the worker’s threepenny bit in the
ollection plate grows fainter and fainter until it
threatens to die away altogether. When the
dignitaries sit down and calmly think, can they
wonder at it ?
Fish.
The Melbourne Age shipping news lately con-
tained the following brief item :
Green Oape,—Passed south —5.45 a.m., Endeavor
(trawler).
By a slight effort of the imagination it is possible
to conjure up the vision of a lonely little steamer
going about its business of exploring the floor ot
the sea and seeking out new fishing grounds, so
that Australia may not have to eat steak for
breakfast every day in the week. It is a comfort-
able thought, and the public—especially the Vic-
torian public—might be induced to stand on the
coast and cheer wildly if only someone could give
it a solemn assurance that the good work of the
Endeavor is going to enrich its breakfast table.
The Victorian, at any rate, is afflicted with
doubts on the subject. There certainly
are fish-shops in Melbourne in which the
marine produce is exhibited for sale, but to
average people with small purses they are
about as interesting as curio emporiums. These
people hardly ever buy fish; usually they just
look at the scaly goods lying down dead on the
marble and pass on to their suburban trains. If
they look and linger too long, an overfed fish-
monger like a corpulent cod comes out and looks
at them as if he suspected them of wanting to
steal his treasures. The corpulent fishmonger
buys the fish at about Jd. a pound from the unfor-
tunate wretch who catches it and rails it to the
city ; then he lays it down on the marble slab,
and the deceased thing with the fins on it instantly
increases in value about 2300 per cent. ! Naturally
the people who haven’t money to throw at
stout fishmongers prefer to invest their cash in
other brands of food which are not retailed
like precious stones. They proceed in haste
to the butcher, and lay out their shillings
and pence on steak. Curiously enough, the
spectacle of all this money drifting past his slab
doesn’t enrage the fish-purveyor as it should. He
prefers to get an enormous profit on a small quan-
tity of fish rather than a reasonable profit on an
enormous quantity. He can’t or won’t see that,
for every one person who can afford to be over-
charged to gratify his waistcoat, there are hun-
dreds who cannot, or whose good sense revolts at
it. And the beauty of being satisfied with a fair
profit, and of making £1 from 100 customers,
doesn’t appeal to him half as well as being a shore
pirate, and extorting a profit of 2s. from one hos-
tile but hungry gourmand. It is a terrible illus-
tration of the lack of intelligence that prevails
amongst fishmongers. A special committee
of the Melbourne City Council recently con-
sidered the matter and came to the dead-end (it
couldn’t be called a conclusion) that the fish
wasn’t ripe for action, and that it would be
undesirable to interfere with the arrangements
which Pirate Enterprise has made for withhold-
ing fish from the Melbourne public. The com-
mittee went so far as to admit that the methods
of distribution were unsatisfactory; but, after
that useless remark, it swam out of the subject by
saying that in its opinion the Council would not
be justified in taking any active steps to improve
the methods. Meanwhile the position is this:
The unhappy sea slave who drags the food out of
the deep gets next to nothing for it (Quite
lately two men had to be satisfied with sd. and
fid. per basket!)-, the man who would eat fish
regularly if he could get it at a sane and reason-
able price only has it now and again as a luxury ;
a limited number of fishmongers are becoming so
bloated that they are in imminent danger of
bursting; and the money of the country is paying
the expenses of the Federal trawler, the business
of which is to look for more fish ! It is a mad dis-
arrangement or conglomeration of circumstances.
♦
The Gentle Art of Fleecing Your Neighbor.
An Australian in S’Africa sends The Bulletin a
sheaf of interesting correspondence about sheep,
angora goats, ostriches, fools and other animals.
Up till recently Australia has had almost a
monopoly in supplying the world with high-class
merino wool; but gradually the S’African breeders
are working up their flocks, chiefly by wholesale
importations of Australian breeding stock. There
are millions of acres of good sheep country in
S’Africa.; and once the high-class merino is estab-
lished in the country, the practical monopoly,
which hag put vast wealth into Australia’s
trousers pocket, will be gone, and the Common-
wealth will have to face a serious competitor.
Reckoning that if S’Africa took a bite out
of Australia it would be a fair thing
for Australia to take a bite out of S’Africa by
way of exchange, The Bulletin’s correspondent
started out to arrange for a shipment or two of
Angora goats and ostriches or ostrich eggs to the
Commonwealth. For a start, he wrote to about
the biggest firm of stock agents and squatting
financiers in Australia, and was told that it was a
great idea, and they would like to hear a lot more
from him. Just at the moment, they said, they
had one of their men in S’Africa disposing of a
shipment of Australian merino sheep, and they
would discuss the probable trade with him when
he got back. Eventually he came back, and the
firm made other inquiries, whereupon the Aus-
tralian in S’Africa got this reply :
Owing to the prohibitive tax imposed by the Govern-
ment of your colony (Orange River), there is little chance
of business being done in exporting rams from South
Africa.
Then the Australian in S’Africa went on another
tack. He began to stir up the S’African Depart-
ments. He pointed out that Australia was allow-
ing its stud sheep to leave the Commonwealth
without paying any export duty whatever. The
Commonwealth, he put it nicely, was thus offering
every facility to S’African breeders to improve
their stock, and wouldn’t it be a fair thing to
reciprocate and reduce the S’African export duty
a trifle so that Australian breeders might improve
their stock of angora goats and ostriches ?
The Departments didn’t give a hurried
reply to the effect that of course reciprocity
was a beautiful thing, and they would adopt it
straightaway. On the contrary, having got an
inkling that their own splendidly profitable mono-
polies were in some remote danger, they pushed
through, not merely a Bill to increase the export
duty, but a measure “ to prohibit the export of
Angora goats ” :
From and after the date of this Act (Sept. 10, 1908) it
shall not be lawful for any person to export from this
colony, any Angora ram or ewe, by land or sea, to any
place beyond its territorial limits. . ..
Every person who shall contravene the provisions of
this Act by exporting any Angora ram or ewe shall, on
conviction, be liable to imprisonment, with or without
hard labor, for any term, not less than 12 months nor
more than two years.
In enclosing a copy of this Act to the Australian
who had talked about reciprocity, the Cape
Department of Agriculture wrote that “similar
legislation has been enacted by the Transvaal,
the Orange River and Natal. The export of
goats to Australia is therefore illegal.” Much the
same prohibition applies to ostriches and their
eggs, though apparently in this case it isn’t
necessarily imprisonment—the tine for exporting
a bird is £lOO and £5 for each egg. So the whole
beautiful tale about reciprocity and Freetrade
within the Empire goes bung. S’Africa practi-
cally has two monopolies—such valuable mono-
polies that lucerne land for raising ostriches
fetches as much as £250 an acre—and if
anybody tries to destroy them it is going
to gaol him for .12 months for a start. Meantime,
however, it is reaching out with both hands to pull
down the Australian partial monopoly in wool,
and instead of fighting to maintain it Australia
welcomes the foreign buyer of its stud stock, and
sells him the pick of its flocks, and passes his pur-
chases out without even collecting 3d. by way of
export duty.
+
Premier Murray’s Coal Mines Bill.
Premier Murray’s new Victorian Coal Mines
Regulation Bill is a voluminous and comprehen-
sive measure, calculated to do a moderate amount
of good if the House of Rich Landlords can be
induced to keep its paws off it. Among a host of
technical provisions, it prohibits the employment
in, on or about coal mines of boys under 14 and
females of any age; and no one may be employed
underground or in charge of machinery for more
than eight consecutive hours (which isn’t cutting
things too fine, by any means) or for more than
48 hours in any week, except in cases of emer-
gency. Wages must be paid in cash, and else-
where than in a beer-emporium. Passing the
provisions for payment by weight, for a men’s
check-weigher, etc., every mine must have
two shaft tunnels or outlets; managers’
and sub-managers must be certificated ; engine-
drivers ditto; and plans of the workings
are to be kept and supplied annually to the Mines
Department. Further provisions follow for pre-
venting accidents, for ventilation, use of explo-
sives, signalling, inspection of boilers, and periodi-
cal inspection of the mine by two men appointed
by the employees. Also an Accident Relief Fund
is to be raised by payments of 9d. per week per
adult employee, half to be paid by the employees,
and a quarter each by the employers and the
Government. The most important part of the
Bill, however, is the one that provides for the
establishment of a State Coal Mine. It is pro-
posed to raise £150,000 by the issue of stock, to
appoint a general manager, sub-managers, etc.,
and engage employees —none of whom are to be
deemed public servants —and to raise coal for State
requirements. After that the Minister may sell,
supply and deliver coal and other products ; work
any tramway, ship, or other movable appliance
acquired for the purpose of supplying and deliver-
ing coal; make and supply electric light and
power, and generally enter into and enforce all
such contracts as the owner of a coal mine might
lawfully do.” The Bill says he “may” do these
things, but it is, so far, understood that the
private supply of coal will not be undertaken
except in case of a strike or lock-out in the Ma
State, whence Victoria now draws most of its
supplies; or in the case of a combine, which unduly
raises the Victorian price. Still, the power is
there, and when Victoria’s manufacturers find the
State railways getting their coal for much less
than they do, they will presently demand
State coal likewise, unless the adjacent local mines
have brought their prices down too. Minister
Mcßride is further responsible for the statement
that the regulations governing or to govern pri-
vate mines will apply equally to the State Mines,
and that the wages to be paid will be those fixed
by a Wages Board, to be appointed under the
Amending Factories Act. As to finance, the sell-
ing price is to be fixed to cover the whole cost of
winning the mineral plus provision for a sinking
fund and a depreciation fund. As the railway
department takes about 400,000 tons a year,
Mcßride reckons that about 500 men will be per-
manently employed, and he thinks that the con-
cern should be in full swing inside two
years. Also S. Australia is to be invited to
lease a mine alongside, instead of going to Mait-
land (N.S.W.), as it proposes. The Bill doesn’t
meet the whole case, and it doesn’t go nearly as
far as it might; but it will be lucky if it gets
through the Assembly this session, and if it does
the House of Landlords is certain to moan about
Socialistic legislation or the time being premature,
. and heave it out. After that it will have to be
passed by the Assembly three or four times before
the Landlords will see wisdom in it and consent to
let some of it go through. The Landlords are
whales on moderation, except in the matter of
acquiring land ; there they are just whales.
♦
“Petifi”: So Prince Ito, Japan’s Resident-
General in Korea, has gone the way of many
princes ! According to the cable, “ The Japanese
received the news of the murder with calmness.
The event will not modify the policy of concilia-
tion in Korea now being pursued by the Japanese
Government.” Well, I don’t know what policy of
conciliation the Monkey Government is running
after in Korea at this precise moment, but if it is
anything like the “ conciliatory ” article which Ito
helped to acclimatise in Korea, the Japs had
better keep their “ calmness” where they can get
at it in a hurry-likely enough they’ll want it for
the reception of further news of a like nature from
the country they have been so strenuously “con-
ciliating.” The marvel is that the “calmness”
wasn’t called for long ago, if Homer B. Hulbert
has got anywhere near the facts in his book on the
Monkey-Korean business :
It was on the night of February 23, 1904, that Korea
signed with Japan a protocol, by the terms of which
Korea practically allied herself with Japan, and became,
as it were, a silent partner in the war. Korea granted to
the Japanese the right to use Korea as a road to Man-
churia, and engaged to give them every facility for prose-
cuting the war. On the other hand, Japan guaranteed
the independence of Korea and, the safety of the royal
family.
During the war everything went as lovely as the
Jap Government could make it. The Monkey
soldier was ordered to hide his tail in his breeches,
and pretend he was a human gentleman ; it didn’t
suit the Monkey Government just then to throw
Korea into the arms of the big White Bear by
allowing its soldier to act as just plain Monkey.
But as soon as the Russo-Jap peace treaty was
fixed up:—
Marquis Ito was sent to Seoul with definite instructions.
Korea was to be induced to sign away her independence
voluntarily. (Who said the Jap was not a humorist?)
Many conferences took place, without result. The
Koreans stood firm on the treaty of 1904, in which Japan
guaranteed, the independence of the country. Finally,
after a very strenuous conference at the Japanese lega-
tion, the whole meeting adjourned to the audienoe
chamber of the Emperor, . . . The Emperor and every
one of his Ministers stood firm. Repeated exhortations
and inducements were offered, but the Koreans were im-
movable. When this deadlock occurred the scenes
shifted a little, and Japanese gendarmes and
police suddenly appeared and surrounded the audience
chamber. The Emperor retired to a little ante-room. . .
When the Prime Minister retired to the apartment where
the Emperor was, he was followed by armed Japanese
officials and detained in a side room. The Marquis there
pleaded with him to give in, but he was firm. The
Marquis returned to the rest of the Cabinet, who were
very naturally alarmed by the non-appearance of the
Prime Minister. . . . And at last a paper was signed by
the majority of Ministers present. . . .
Thus “voluntarily” was Korea “induced” to
sign away its independence ; thus did Ito intro-
duce the policy of “ conciliation ” to Korea ; and
thus was loaded the gun which suddenly exploded
in the hands of a Korean patriot the other day,
and another brutal tyrant passed out.
♦
The incompetence of the Law, wilful and other-
wise, was exemplified in a remark made by Justice
Hood at last month’s Melbourne Sessions. An
accused man, who had not been on bail during
committal, had got the Crown to subpoena a wit-
ness for him. As the witness didn’t appear when
called, his Honor asked the Crown how this was ;
whereupon the Crown said it had subpoenaed him
right enough, but had paid no conduct money.
Conduct money was only paid when the accused
found the cash, or in such cases as the Crown
thought fit to do so itself. Thereupon Justice
Hood observed that it was a slipshod way of doing
business, and that the Crown, if it did it at all,
should do it properly; but that, as no conduct
money had been paid, he could do nothing; so
the trial proceeded without the missing witness.
This paper opines that his Honor might feasibly'
have postponed the trial till the witness yvas
hunted up, but apparently that would have cap-
sized the usual course of justice. As for the
“Crown’s” habit of paying conduct money only
when it suits it, his Honor’s criticism might have
been a good deal more severe than it was. Evil-
minded people might imagine that the
brought the witness along with care when ‘.it
fancied he would do the prisoner’s case more harm
than good, and that otherwise it didn’t bring him.
Anyhow, an accused person as a rule has no cash
to spare on witnesses’ conduct money—his lawyer
sees to that—and if he be noton bail he can’t hunt
them up himself, and even if he could he can only
persuade them to give evidence—the Crown can
compel them. And, anyhow, it is quite as much
the Crown’s business to defend an accused person
as it is to prosecute him, and the getting of his
witnesses to court is a considerable part of his
defence. Altogether, the business shows up the
Law in a very biassed and unpleasant aspect.
Another Fusion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s been fierce argument of late
In my vicinitee.
Between the Commonwealth and State,
For I fell out with me.
I am a sturdy Fed’ralist,
A staunch Australian ;
And I have waved an angry fist
At me, the States’ Rights man.
The argument began like this :
I to myself one night
Remarked : “There’s something sore amiss
That cries to be put right.
“ This argument ’twixt Commonwealth
And State must cease, ’tis plain.
’Tis interfering with my health
And rending me in twain.”
“ Then, as a free,” myself replied,
“ Elector of the State,
I hold my Rights can’t be denied,
And I’ve been wronged of late.
“ The Commonwealth’s extravagance ”
“ Hold on,” I said, “ hold on !
A fool could tell you at a glance
Where all the money’s gone.
“ Of late the States’ expenditure
Has risen high and higher.”
“What rot,” me thought. “ That’s pretty
pure ! ”
Then shouted, “ I’m a liar ! ”
I rose to smite the Fed’ralist
And—what do you suppose ?
I found, with my avenging fist,
The States’ Rights person’s nose.
And yet, it did seem strange, because
Though, truly, as I’ve said,
I hit the State elector, ’twas
The Federal nose that bled.
“See here,” I said, “ this game won’t do.
We’ll have to stop and think.
There’s something wrong with me and you.
Let’s go and have a drink.”
We entered, without further hitch,
A pub across the way,
And had a single drink, for which
We both appeared to pay.
“Enough of this ! ” the States’ man brayed.
“ You asked me over here
To have a drink, and when I’ve paid,
You drink the bloomin’ beer ! ”
“Nay,” quoth the Fed’ralist, “ I think
You err. To me ’tis clear
I paid the money for the drink,
And you consumed the beer.
“ I don’t know what you are to me,
A foe, or friend, or brother.
To settle it I think I— we —
You better have another.”
We had another. Then we sat
Awhile, morose and mute ;
Then drifted into friendly chat
About our late dispute.
“ I think I see a point we’ve missed,
And that suggests a plan,”
At length said I, the Fed’ralist,
To Me, the States’ Rights man.
“ It may seem strange to you at first;
We both wear one same hat,
We have one coat, one shirt, one thirst;
Why should we stop at that ?
“ To buy two drinks to quench one thirst
Is utterly absurd ;
Unless, of course, you’re on a burst
Or jag (excuse the word).
“ But, since we’re one in thirst and dress
Why not be one in view ?
I can’t see why we don’t possess
But one opinion too.
“ For I begin to think ’tis true,
Whatever else we be,
That while I’m virtually you
You’re practically me.
“ We’re both one man. It’s all a fake !
You’re me, and I am you ;
Though politicians try to make
Us think that we are two.
“ And if a thing suits one it should,
Quite clearly, suit the two.
And if this Federation’s good
For me, it’s good for you.
“ ’Tis folly that we two should fight,
And wrangle, and abuse ;
So, seeing things in this new light,
It’s up to us to fuse.”
We fose forthwith, I’m pleased to say.
We’re now a single man,
And that man is, from now, alway,
A good Austral-i-an.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
, Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
V FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
266 Collins St., Melbourne ; 9S Queen St.. Brisbane.
Adams' Tattersalfs Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
&
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Premier Murray, of Victoria, lately lost his tired
feeling long enough to be quite angry at what a
-Trades Hall deputation showed him. This con-
sisted of certain boots, allegedly of leather, but in
reality with insoles of cardboard and heels of
pressed paper and pieces of waste leather pasted
together. Other samples showed canvas, tar-
paulin-in fact, any old waste material seemed to
be run in atjd covered with one outside layer of
coyv’s-skin. It was pointed out to Murray that
this caper was a gross swindle on the public ; that
it assisted to spread consumption and pneumonia,
damaged the morals of the apprentices, who saw
their employers getting rich by fraud, and
did a lot of other things that weren’t
good for any community. Murray was quite
angry. One thing, he said, that always made
his gorge rise was “this damned thieving in
so many trades, especially when the victims are
people who could least afford to be victimised.”
Then he promised State legislation on the lines of
the Federal Commerce Act. though he had faint
hopes of finding time for a Bill this session. Yet
it doesn’t look as if there was much need for
legislation. The police could surely work up
a test case against the manufacturer by buying a
few boots. Even if the case failed—and the selling
of old tarpaulin as leather seems just as obvious
a fraud as passing gilded sixpences for half-
sovereigns—the mere publication of the offenders’
names would do a lot of good. And after
his test case failed, Murray could bring in
a Bill placing the brummy boot manufacturer
in the same category as the brummy coin utterer
and providing the same penalty—anything up to
12 months’ hard labor. By the way, it is signifi-
cant that a religious organisation which loves to
pose as a good Samaritan regularly collects waste
materials and carts them to the boot-manufac-
turer who constructs the bogus boot. It has
changed places with the wayfarer of old and has
fallen among thieves itself. But it comes better
out of the encounter than he did.
Prime-Fuse d-Mi mister Deakin now notifies that
he will advertise for immigrants on behalf of all
Australia. This is the tail end of a long and
needless correspondence which was commenced
on September 24, 1908. Deakin was then in
office, but he shortlv went out. On February 18,
1909, Fisher was in office, and Wade, N.S.W.
Premier, wrote to ask how the correspondence he
had had with Deakin stood. Hugh Mahon (for
Fisher) replied vaguely on March 12. On March
15 Wade acknowledged receipt of letter. On
March 23 he wrote asking what the vague-
ness meant. On April 8 W. M. Hughes (for
Fisher) repeated what Deakin had said, and
declared his readiness to act if the other States
were agreeable. On April 14 Wade wrote saying
that was satisfactory; but on April 17 he wrote
again stating that he wouldn’t wait long. On
April 23 Hughes (for Fisher) acknowledged re-
ceipt. On April 30 Fisher wrote asking Wade
what his opinion was on the subject generally.
On May 3 Wade acknowledged receipt of the
letter, and on May 11 he wrote again, saying his
opinion was thesameas before. Then Fisher wrote
asking what it was before. After that Deakin
returned to office, and now the matter is fixed up,
though the supply of land for the immigrants
who are to be advertised for is no more visible or
apparent than it was before. Twenty-two official
letters on this subject have been specially printed
by order of N.S.W. Legislative Assembly, and
are unsold by the Government Printer for 6d.
Nobody reads them, of course. The document
fell still-born into the waste-paper basket.
The libel law of N.S.W. has always been in a dis-
gracefully backward condition, and the news-
paper proprietor in that State takes risks and
struggles under disabilities which were abolished
in England and many other parts of the British
Empire a peck of years ago. There are in N.S.W.
more chances to hire a lawyer and rush headlong
intp litigation than there are in most places.
Premier Wade being a behemoth for profitless
litigation, nobody expected him to interfere with
this arrangement, and people were surprised when
his Government leaped into the middle of things
with a Bill which certainly promised to be an im-
provement—if only, a moderate improvement.
Then it looked at the document to see what it was
loaded with, and found this :
The proprietor of any newspaper shall, upon the writ-
ten request of any person affected by any article, letter,
report or writing in any newspaper supply to such person
affected thereby the name and address of the person who
supplied such article, letter, report or writing to such
newspaper, etc.
Presumably this clause represents the craving of
the present Government to discover the people
vvho_ write unpleasant things about it. It is a
mediaeval sort of device, which is chiefly useful as
showing the deviser’s state of mind. As a means
of extracting information, it may serve with small
country papers ; but, so far as the big city paper
is concerned, there is at least one hole in it large
enough to drive a furniture-van through. And it
is quite possible that close inspection will reveal
two holes.
-^-< y—.
For weeks past there has been a stream of wails—
columns of them—in the Melbourne Argus, pre-
dicting ruin, destruction and perdition generally,
when Murray’s land-tax becomes law. If these
correspondents are speaking the truth, Murray’s
tax is going to act like a bush fire and a plague of
locusts, and the country will be rendered desolate.
But just while these miserable landowners were in
the middle of their agony—howling on the top
note, as it were—two land-sales took place in the
Western District of Victoria. Of course, with
blight and paralysis in the shape of a land-tax
approaching, these sales should have been failures.
Buyers should have stayed away with great em-
phasis, and a hoarse and angry auctioneer should
have, begged vainly for bids. Somehow, none of
these things happened. At Camperdown, a farmer
who .had bought a block of Purrumbete land
about three years ago, for £35 per acre, was offered
£54 per acre—and the auctioneer had to announce
that he would not take it! At Colac, a day later,
300 acres of A. S. Chirnsidk’s estate was auc-
tioned ; and the competition was so fierce that the
auctioneer was nearly suffocated. Up to £lOO
per acre was paid, and when the weary hammerer
totted up the sales that night he found that for
this one ordinary-sized paddock of the old station
he had obtained £22,382—an average of £66 per
acre. Theoretically the Victorian landlord is
under a blight. Because of the prospective
graduated land-tax his enemies triumph over him,
and he is a burst and impoverished community,
and the wjolf is at the door, and the Polar hear
coming down the chimney with its mouth open.
But in practice he does very well indeed.
♦
Maoriland Parliament is being urged to turn its
attention to the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. with
a view to using an axe on that corporation at the
earliest possible moment. According to Poole,
M.H.R., the C. S. R. Co. by some means managed
to procure exemption from the Is. per ton wharf-
age export duty from the Auckland Harbor Board.
Recently the Board decided that all such exemp-
tions were not only illegal, but unjust. If the
C.S.R. could not afford to pay the humble bob
per ton, then who could ? So it notified the co.
that the exemption was withdrawn. Then the
C.S.R. appears to have gone mad, and informed
the Board that it would make up the extra cost
out of Auckland by raising the price of its sugar
by ss. per ton. It’s a foolish thing on the part of
the C.S.R. to make threats of this kind ; and sheer
madness to carry them into effect. But it is said
that the notices of the increase have already been
served on the Auckland merchants. Granted that
the C.S.R. has a practical monopoly in Maoriland,
a State is too large a dog for a mere (company to
play monkey tricks with, and, if there is a fight,
it is the co. that will get bitten. If the Govern-
ment gets into-a mulish mood and makes up its
mind to kick wi th both feet, the C. S. R. may be lifted
clean out of the islands. The Government may
nationalise the sugar industry, grow its own cane
in Australia or Fiji, and manufacture its sugar in
Auckland. Or it may merely subsidise the beet
sugar industry in its own islands, and further en-
courage it by judicious use of the railway rates
on sugar till the C.S.R. is glad to pack its bag.
+
“ Aged Warrior ” writes :
An incurable fear seems to haunt some legislators that
the people, unless strictly tied up, are always liable to
commit a brutal and unprovoked assault upon themselves.
These legislators are of the class which neither learns
anything nor forgets anything. Burrowing back into the
niurk of old European history they find that where the
Government is hot the people, or is only partly or nomi-
nally the people, the existence of great armies has led to
great needless wars and general superfluous horrors. So
they reckon that in Australia, where the Government is
wholly the people, military training must be a huge dan-
ger. There is to be a mockery of military training cer-
tainly, but it is to stop at the age of 20 lest the popular
mind should become inflamed with a craving to order itself
recklessly into the gory and blatant battlefield.
And though the ill-armed and almost untrained
reserves—the men between 26 and 60—may be
called out at an emergency, it has been solemnly enacted
that this can only be done “in time of war.” It was pro-
posed that these reserves might be called out when war
was obviously imminent, so that they might have a day
or two in which to get together, to get accustomed to the
feel of the rifle which they hadn’t handled since they were
20, to recall their almost forgotten goose-step, to remem-
ber the old words of command, to learn to know their
officers, and to devise some commissariat arrangements
apart from the biscuit and piece of corned beef which they
brought away from home. But in the great fear lest they
should abuse the power to call themselves out, this is not
to be allowed. The enemy will probably make a note of the
arrangement. War begins either when a formal de-
claration is made, or more often with the firing
of the first shot and • without any declaration.
The coming enemy will probably' take every care to avoid
a declaration. Realising that he is opposed to a country
which isn’t permitted to call out the bulk of its defence
forces until war is actually begun, he will do his best to
ensure that war won’t begin—if he can help it—till his
first shot lands? on top of the Treasury at Sydney. Then,
and only then, will it be lawful for the Government to
sign and print a document ordering the reserve men at
Bourke and Nvngan and Broken Hill and like places to
move. As for the city men, they are to get the word to
come out just as soon as the shells are beginning to burst
in the barrack-ground where they have to assemble, and
the trams and trains are disorganised, and their officers
are too busy with actual fighting to pay much attention
to the tumultuous mob of reservists. It is all carefully
devised in the interests of “anti-militarism,” but even
the most hackneyed sentiment may be carried too far.
N.S.W. Premier Wade made a blunder
the other night. In fact, he opened his mouth
and put both feet in it. Cann made an endeavor
to move the Assembly to take a referendum on
the question of abolishing the Legislative Council,
the State Governor and State Agent-General.
Whereupon Wade interjected : “ Aren't you in
favor of the retention of State Rights ? ” This
suggestion that State Rights are not safe in the
hands of the people and can be maintained only
by an irresponsible non-elective Legislative
Council is an amazing thing to come from the
Chief State Fright Panjandrum, Charles Gregory
Wade. In fact, it is the worst blow that has
been struck at State Frights since the thing was
hatched.
Tahmy Burns’ brother-in-law is just now
mourning the day when he ventured to be playful
with his relative at the Turkish Bath in Mel-
bourne. They were rejoicing together in the
small compartment adjoining the shampoo room
when brother-in-law, in the fulness of his glee,
put a mock hammerlock on his thick-set com-
panion. Whereupon Tahmy grasped his playmate
round the waist and upended him. Incidentally
one of the legs of the upended citizen went
through a window of the compartment, and the
patient is now doing rather badly. The serious
joke had a comic side to it. A Hebrew gentleman
in the adjoining hot room, hearing a scuffling noise,
climbed upon one of the benches to see what was
on. At that moment a leg came through the
window and scattered some pieces of glass, one of
which—fortunately a small piece—stuck in the
inquisitive gentleman’s chest. His solicitor is now
discussing the amount of damage he received, and
Tahmy is repudiating all responsibility for the
Hebrew gentleman’s indiscretion in climbing on
the bench.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Cheat.”
Her Majesty’s “ A Country Girl.”
Criterion “ Othello.”
Palace “ The Scarlet Troubadours.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Theatre... “Zaza.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
King’s “ One of the Best.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
Wirth’s Olympia. King’s Pictures.
Wirth’s Park Wirth Bros.’ Circus.
+
Last week it was announced that James
Jeffries had at last consented to meet Jack John-
son, the murky fighter, but that he so utterly
scorned the dark target of his intended assault
that even when the men met to arrange details he
would only communicate with Johnson at second
hand. Apparently he turned his back on John-
son and spoke to some hireling or underling, and
the underling shuddered and spoke to Johnson.
Sydney heard these facts, and saw nothing very
remarkable in them. Then it went to the Cri-
terion to see Oscar Asche play the part of another
nigger fighting rnan, and so wonderfully does the
distance of ages paint the murky view with
enchantment that it saw nothing remarkable in
his case either —not even when an aristocratic
daughter of the proudest republic in Europe
became his wife and the prospective mother of
little Sambo.
* • * *
Oscar Asche is assuredly a very fine artist.
His Othello is great at the beginning and grows
greater as it proceeds. When, towards the last,
the military person becomes a raving Moor of the
most mouth-foaming description, his impressive-
ness is tremendous. Still there is something
wanting about Othello, but it is something that
even the best actor can’t supply. We would like
to know what Othello really was, or was meant to
be. Was he black all over or only black in spots ?
If Shakspeare had mentally undressed him just
once and cleared up this point it would have
been more satisfactory. Was he a tame
Moor who accidentally went wild, or was
he a wild Moor who happened to be tame for a
little while, just about the time when he
met Desdemona ? If he was a tame Moor
who chanced to have a match put to him,
and consequently blazed up, it seems that,
provided a house had happened to fall on
lago early in the proceedings, Desdemona’s
venture might have turned out fairly
well, barring the presence of little Sambo
about the house, and the declining years
of the pair at the Othello residence
might have been happy enough.
On the other hand, if he was a
wild Moor with a lucid inter-
val, then he would in course
of time have gone back to
Africa and savagery, and
taken ten more wives, and
shut up a faded Desdemona in
the harem. Oscar Asche plays
Othello as a tame Moor who went
wild, and does it magnificently. At the same
time one wishes that Shakspeare had written the
drama of what'would have happened if Othello
and Desdemona hadn’t died, and if a house had
judiciously fallen on lago.
Miss Lily Brayton is a beautiful, clever
and pathetic Desdemona. She seems to have for-'
gotten her previous part of Katharina the Shrew
better than she did when she Desdemona-ed in
Melbourne, and no longer gives the occasional
impression that she may break out and hit Othello
justly on the head with something or other—pro-
bably the latter. Mr. Grimwood’s lago is still
overshadowed by the hero, but the hero casts
such a large black shadow that it is possible
for this to happen, and yet for the lago
of the piece to be a fairly good lago
in his way. Emilia and Cassio deserve the kind
things that were said of them in this column when
they appeared in the Cup city; possibly these kind
things might even be accentuated a little. Other
parts are fairly well filled, and the scenery and
stage arrangement are excellent. They are calcu-
lated to stagger humanity (up to a certain point),
as Paul Kruger once put it.
* -* * *
The falliug away of Williamson’s best
Sydney company—the one at the Royal—from
“A Village Priest” to “The Cheat ” is'a circum-
stance to break the heart of every right-thinking
theatre-goer. For “The Cheat” is concentrated
drivel and wash of the thinnest description. It
possesses hardly one original idea or one novel
scene. Most of its propositions have been made
stale by a thousand renderings in other plays, and,
that the splendid Titheradge and the scholarly
Mackay should be wasting their time on this
shocking collection of disused bellowdrama trim-
mings is tragedy.
*** ■ *
The story of “ The Cheat ” is the old
familiar one of the military captain (Rivers) who
seduces the affianced wife of his uncle, Stephen
Blanchard—the man who makes him an allowance
on which to support his military frill—and also
wants to marry the best girl of his cousin, Jim Blan-
chard. To get the girl, he ruins Jim by marking
that idiotic young man’s cards. Jim, shot out of
his regiment, goes back as a ranker, leads the
charge at Dhargai with the wounded colonel on
his shoulders (he doesn’t do that on the stage),
and plays the hero in an amazing way. Rivers
has got himself disliked among thePathansof the
N.W. Frontier, for bombarding Pat'han sangars
before the women and children get out; and when
the Pathans capture two English nurses, who are,
naturally, Jim’s intended wife and the seduced
fiancee of Uncle Stephen, they drive a hard bargain.
They have also captured Uncle Stephen, and they
send him back blinded and maimed to the fort to
inform Rivers Sahib that, unless R. S. surrenders
himself to them personally in exchange for the
ladies, they will deal with the girls in a much
worse fashion. Rivers says he’ll see them damned
first, and shoots himself lestsomething worseshould
happen to him. Jim, of course, comes along, dis-
guises himself as Rivers, and by giving himself up
as that disreputable person, saves the girls. His
father. General Blanchard, arrives with an over-
powering force just in time to rescue him, and the
scene ends with the surrender of the Patbans
because General Blanchard is a “ blood brother.”
Presumably the Pathans hear no more about the
playful blinding and torturing of Uncle Stephen.
•* • * *
Of course all that is to be made of such a
farrago is made. Titheradge, as the old general,
is cheered. Cyril Mackay, as the cowardly, drug-
drinking, whisky-swilling Captain Rivers, gets
all the hoots and hisses a stage villain can desire.
Kingston, as the righteous ass Jim, disguises that
educated officer as a bawling swaggerer when he
takes to the ranks ; and Miss Grimston and Miss
Ethel Warwick, as the two injured ladies, make
about all that high intelligence and good acting
can make of their parts. The comic relief is Sup-
plied by Dion Titheradge, L. Hardinge and L.
Waller, jun., as a trio of young lieutenants ; and,
curiously enough, the comic relief is the only
human, unexaggerated part of the blessed “crea-
tion.”
** * *
“East Lynne,” that terrible relic of the
early Victorian era, wept itself on to the stage of
the Palace last Saturday night, and there it will
remain until late on Friday next, when it will
again retire to the tomb and wrap its shroud about
its faded form. The dreary old weeper is an ex-
posure of the strange whiskers and pompous hum-
bug indulged in by our grand-aunts and uncles ;
it is also a reminder that when the antimacassar
was one of the British national vices, the Baby
was apparently regarded as more shocking than it
is now. When Lord Mount Severn, the frigid
aristocratic uncle, visits Lady Isabel in France
after her flight and Fall, in order to make
arrangements for a suitably small allowance, he
inquires what her household staff consists of, and
on being informed that it includes a nursemaid,
he throws himself into a hopeless stained-
glass-window attitude and looks appealingly
skywards. In that particular scene the
DRAMA IN MOTION.
Maeterlinck recently produced “ Macbeth” at
his country house. The scene was laid partly in
a bedroom , partly in a dining-hall, partly else-
where, so the audience had to chase the show all
over the building. This is Macbeth doing a sprint
with the ghost.”
play is very early Victorian. Justice Hare
is an extinct type, as is also Cornelia, the early
Victorian aunt. “ East Lynne ” rakes these two
human caricatures out of the dead Past, and
dangles them from the rope of publicity for a
slangy generation to scoff at. The rest of the play’s
characters are more or less human, with the ex-
ception of Little Willie, who uses words like
“grieve,” and dies remorselessly in the limelight
with four pounds of powder on his face. In the
Palace version the long-distance wail is presented
in five acts and 18 scenes. The continual scene-
shifting makes it a sort of dramatic hurdle race ;
but it is a restless wail, and has to be pursued
madly by perspiring stage-hands for about three
hours before it finally gets through. Kenneth
Hunter is the Archibald Carlyle of the production,
and he does his duty bv the character in a frock
coat and plug hat. Hilliard Vox, with an eye-
glass jammed in his left eye, would be a more
satisfactory Sir Francis Levison if he didn’t talk
as if every word hurt him. Strangely enough,
this habit of straining leaves him after his arrest
by the comic policeman ; with the handcuffs on,
he says his lines more naturally and blossoms into
quite a genial soul. Miss Nellie Fergusson, in
the double r6le of Lady Isabel and Mrs. Vine, has
to shoulder about one-half of the anguish, and she
does so with enthusiasm. Both as the limp
creature who “ flies” or aeroplanes with Levison,
and as the scarred and goggled nurse who engages
to tend her own children, she sheds real tears
regardless of the wear and tear on her stage com-
plexion. Willie Carlyle is played by a small girl
—Kitty Burgess—and she dies as no mere small
boy ever could. Cornelia is overdone by Pattie
Gourlav; and T. E. Tilton, as Justice Hare, is
hereby forgiven and urged not to do it again in
exactly the same way. “East Lynne” will be
withdrawn after Friday, November 5; on Satur-
day, November 6, the Scarlet Troubadours will
start to take a farewell of Sydney.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) “The Belle
of New York ” will pursue her noble career in a
poke bonnet until Friday. Wild horses will not
persuade her to stay longer ; even if she is offered
the alternative of being burnt at the stake she in-
tends to adhere to her resolution. In fact, she
has to go, for “The Country Girl” is due on
Saturday. This is the play with the Rajah of
Bhong in it, and it hasn’t been seen in Sydney for
something like three years.
* * *
H. Rickards, of the Sydney Tivoli, appears
to have a weak spot in his salary list for colored
performers of no particular merit. Hassan, “ the
Eastern Wonder Magician and Manipulator,” is


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with tho
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS,
Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. ‘230 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. OAKY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
O.M.
BENEDICTINE
The Liqueur with 400 Years’ Reputation .
the latest importation to the Sydney house of
varieties, and his turn makes the patrons
wonder why Rickards engaged him to totter
in the massive footsteps of a performer like
Chung Ling Soo. Bertha Stuart, a Scottish
character vocalist, is the other new arri-
val ; she has a song which has the elements
of popularity about it, and she attacks it
and well-known Scotch airs with a deep
contralto. Guest and Newlyn, who collaborate
in screaming comedies, have come back to scream
some more. Otherwise there is an old flavor
about the show. The star turn is provided by the
Trapnell Sisters and Brother George, who live up
to all the programme says of them. The Two
Bells and Athmore Gray are taking a week’s fare-
well, and the cheerful Bells at least will be a loss
to the aggregate gaiety of the house. At present
there is no particular reason why the Tivoli should
be called the home of the stars; that sign should
be hidden in the cellar for a while.
** * #
The brightest and most popular perform-
ances in Adelaide lately have been a series of
lectures given by Frederick Bevan, of the Uni-
versity Conservatorium, on Arthur Sullivan.
Bevan, who knew Sullivan well, chats about his
subject engagingly for a few minutes, and then a
small choir of picked voices illustrates the remarks
with song ; and so the process goes on throughout
the evening. The series was given at the Uni-
versity first, but has had to be repeated in the
Town Hall and elsewhere. With the coming of
summer, the Pierrots have started again in an
open-air enclosure on the beach at Glenelg. Bert
Barton is once more in command. Another tune-
ful crowd under the same title has opened on the
Semaphore sands; its chief man sports the useful
name of “Warwick Armstrong.” The Royal is
closed for the moment, but “Jack and Jill” are
understood to be coming up the hill rapidly,
bringing with them a pail to hold the takings.
** * *
A revival of “The Merry Widow” at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) presents the much-advertised
piece as something more than a gaudy vehicle for a
waltz tune. In its first Australian instance “ The
Widow ” was expected and received as a one-girl
show. Public interest centred in the name
character and her languorous waltz. Carrie
Moore had been specially imported to supply an
attraction which was the main feature in the
London performance of this odd musical-fareical-
sentimental drama. People who discounted their
estimate of the show by their disappoint-
ment as regards Carrie were only moderately
well pleased with their entertainment. Obviously
the gloomy, glaring Widow of last year didn’t
fill the bill, if the bill required her to resemble
Lily Elsie (the London original), of whom some
wild blatherer wrote : “ The slumbering passion
in her lovely eyes is like the visionary passion of
an impossible damozel bending over the gold bar
of an impossible Heaven. She is womanhood
melting into the mist of poetry and the vapor of
romance. She is the mirage of unattained rapture
and the miracle of unachieved delight sung by
Keats.” Carrie Moore, to be quite candid, was
absurdly unsatisfactory. She was neither mun-
danely merry nor poetically misty. But the per-
formance, as a whole, was good enough, and every
piano in the land advertised the Widow’s woo-
some waltz.
* * * *
The present performance is more effective.
To begin with, there is a more matured Gouriet
in the capital comedy part of Baron Popoff, and
a more soft and feline-mannered lady in the com-
promising situation of Popoff’s undutiful wife,
formerly occupied by Miss Young. This new
Natalie is Miss Nellie Wilson, who has a stealthy
smile and a good deal of quiet force and a pic-
turesque charm. She seems intensely in earnest
what time Reginald Roberts is pursuing her with
insincere attentions. The light romantic love-
making of Roberts is about as tender as a box-
wood block, the artificial thrill in his impassioned
utterances reminds one of a Salvation Army
prayer, but when he sings for all he is worth his
voice soars to emotionalism, and his duet with Miss
W. in the second act is an exciting success. Miss
Dango makes a pleasing appearance as Fi-Fi for a
few minutes ; other minor parts and chorus gather-
ings are played as neatly, or otherwise, as before ;
and Higginson resumes his likeable impersonation
of the unaccountable prince, who plays the lover
and acts the fool. In the name part Miss Florence
Young wisely refrains from attempting to be
superhumanly seductive. She smiles where Carrie
Moore scowled, and is coquettish in moderation.
In short, she suits the part to her somewhat sub-
dued self instead of assuming to be the Widow
whom Carrie Moore certainly wasn’t. If her sub-
stantial embodiment of the Waltz idea is not more
alluring than the other lady’s was it has at least
the air of being so, for the orchestra, under
McCunn’s guidance, gives the necessary amorous
languor to the air.
* * * *
A three weeks’ season of N ellie Stewart
and Co. started at the Princess’s last Saturday
with “Sweet Kitty Bellairs,” the unconvincing
comedy in which mock pathos waits upon sham
heroics, and all things are of the stage, stagey.
The thing was artistically done ; but a more
crowded audience would have preferred to wel-
come the co. in a less artificial play. “Sweet
Nell ” has already taken the place of “ Sweet
Kitty,” and until next Friday night King
Charles’ best girl will continue to triumph over
her enemies. On Saturday the revival of “ Zaza ”
will give Nellie Stewart her best chance to point
a moral and adorn a dramatic story.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the new edition of
“ Cinderella ” offers frivolous entertainment to a
public that has mostly lost money and is looking
for mental distraction; and, judged by past per-
formances, the panto, seems worthy of support.
Its legs are in the pink of condition and, in the
words of the turf prophets, it is able to stay for a
week.
** * *
Bland Holt is already half-way through his
sojourn at the King’s, therefore his dramas are as
fleeting dreams and shadows soon decaying. For
another night or two he will continue to buy a
racehorse with Denny Thompson’s money, and
get himself horribly disliked for scratching it at
the post. But on Saturday he will withdraw
“ The Flood Tide ” and put “One of the Best ”
into commission.
The most striking change in the order of
Wirth’s circus since the tent was re-erected in
Melbourne is the introduction of a 10-minutes’
interval, so that the big cage, wherein the wild
beasts of the menagerie mingle their savagery in an
amicable tableau, may be erected within the arena
and bathed in limelight. Under the new con-
ditions, the Happy Family of animals is more
applauded than when the lion lay down with
the unicorn in a far-off region of the marquee.
Nothing now remains but for Datas to be put
into the comprehensive den, like another Daniel,
when he comes to get his memory tested. The
one thing wanting in Datas’ turn is the
element of danger. He merely bounds into the
circus ring at the bidding of his manager, who is
quite tame.
** * *
Herewith another gentle reminder that
Amy Castles is to give two concerts at Melbourne
Town Hall this week. The first is dated to-night
(Thursday) and the next one will transpire on
Saturday night.
** * *
The Jesters, who are first cousins in art to
Branscombe’s Scarlet Troubadours, started their
Melbourne innings at Arcadia (St. Kilda Espla-
nade) last Saturday. Arcadia, as its name implies,
is a roofless haunt of innocent merriment, and on
a night like Saturday, when the wind blew cold
through the pneumonia blouse of the seaside girl,
the entertainment needed to be well worth the
money. The fact that a good-sized audience wore
a pleasant smile from first to last of the Jesters’
programme indicated that they are going to be a
roaring success on warmer evenings.
** * *
Alfred Tennyson Dickens, who has been
off the lecture line for some years, popped up
again at Melb. Athenaeum Hall last week, and
kept his audiences interested for two hours.
Veteran A.T.D. talks of his father’s home-life,
and recites some unhackneyed passages from the
novelist’s works in a way that must appeal to
many people in any large English-speaking city.
His enunciation has become rather thick and
rusty from disuse in public, but his voice is full-
toned and musical. He speaks from memory
without hesitation, and his personality claims
sentimental consideration all the time. Charles
Dickens is still a live subject for a lecturer. Son
Alfred, viewed in profile, is a strikingly true son of
his father. Now that the Taits have got him going
on the platform, they will perhaps keep him oiled
for a provincial tour.
* -* * *
“ 0.K.” : The competition of cinemato-
graph shows in Melbourne proper— i.e., within
the metropolitan radius—is a wildly unreasonable
struggle just now. If the demand for “ pictures ”
gets killed by a surfeit of supply, a verdict of
“died from natural causes” will have to be
returned. At the popular transpontine show dis-
trict, off the north end of St. Kilda-road, which
promises to be the theatre market of the future,
there are three great Picture houses hanging out
their electric-lighted signs, and three sets of touts
clashing with one another. A permanent roller-
“ OTHELLO ” AT SYDNEY CRITERION,
Iago (Herbert Grimwood) and Othello
(Oscar Asche).
skating rink and the temporary circus are
situated in the rear of the latest ’graph. In
Bourke-street the building next to the Theatre
Royal is devoted to Hoyt’s Pictures; also the
Bijou, on the opposite side of the road,
is a cinematographic establishment, and, right
opposite to Her Majesty’s, the place that
used to be the home of gory melodrama is now
known as the Paragon Pictures. The Athenaeum
Hall in Collins-street is another outlet for films,
when it isn’t otherwise engaged, and the Town
Hall has somebody’s special pictures on view
occasionally. Thus far the public appetite for
pictures has seemed to grow with what it feeds,
on, whilst becoming more critical. The films,
must be new and the reflections steady if the
’graph is to flourish these times, and the result of
this all-round improvement in the shows is a woe-
ful slump in the suburban and up-country business,
of the travelling flickermongers whose worn-out
films were formerly received with wonderment.
The word goes round that picture dramas which,
flicker hardly at all can be seen in town for six-
pence. So the country people in Melbourne rush,
to the ’graphs, and the locals are still keen on
them (though the market is overcrowded); and the
variety shows, likewise the melodramas and, in a
measure, the musical comedies are suffering'
neglect.
■m * * *
Those who did not see the original
eruption of boating and brilliant clobber
at Henley had a chance of observing the
same at Melb. Glaciarium last Saturday,
when J. and N. Tait showed it on their
flickergraphie screen. The Taits also showed
“A Lady’s Companion,” a melodramette of
plotting, poison and persecution ; “ The Storm,”’
a marine tragedy, accompanied by storm noises,
from a toiler behind the sheet; and sundry
visions of Corsica; the Farman aeroplane; and
“The Coffee Industry,” which last type of film ought,
to be seen more frequently than it is. Another
picture that might be mentioned for its occasional!
thrilling moments was “The Bugle Call,” a Yankee-
narrativeof warand sentiment. At West’s building
“The Mended Lute” is the poetical, but not.
over-obvious, title of an Injun love-story. Other
aspirants for favor at West’s meeting last Satur-
day were “The Largest Pigeon Farm in the
World,” which won the Marvel Stakes by a short-
flicker, and “Field Gun Drill by British Tars.”
which, after a great gallop, showed that the B.
Dog Breed can do things with cannon that are-
more theatrical than useful. Other starters at
short prices were “Ticklish Tommy,” “The
Funeral of the Emperor of China,” etc., etc.
During this week the Melbourne Cup will pre-
sumably be pictured with more or less impress-
iveness.
** * *
Melbourne Olynipia re-opened on Saturday
with the King’s Pictures, which, despite their
name, are quite up to the usual picture merit.
The best item in Saturday’s programme is possibly
“The Fool,” which has an originality and
dramatic quality not found in the ordinary
cinemato. story. The other pictures comprise
fables of violently conventional sentiment, a
couple of scenes of falling waters in Brazil, floods
in Moscow, and a batch of comic films —two
of them being strictly humorous. The Olympia
building, by the way, has been altered since
writer was there last. The unsightly timber
that previously supported the roof has been slain
and replaced by girders, thus affording an unin-
terrupted view of the screen. Also there is a new
announcer, with the voice of an angel and the
habits of a demon. Like a phantom he flits from
the frame of the screen to make his assertions,
and then vanishes into the dark like a fragment
of a dream. There is a Mephistophelian noise-
lessness about this chap, and even his voice seems
to be travelling on a pair of rubber heels.
** * *
Melbourne Opera House attached Franco
Piper and Roland George to its bill on Saturday.
Franco juggles banjos for a living, and during the
juggle steals tired, familiar tunes from the slowly
moving instruments. The turn is one of much
cleverness and considerable perspiration, but
from a musical point of view the tail end of it is
the best. When Piper ceases juggling he plays
one banjo in a rational manner with pleasing
effect. Roland George, the other newcomer, is a
virile but unexceptional flagellator of xylophones
and arrangements of a like nature, and his
acknowledging smile is like a lovely crescent
moon. Other items on the present bill are
Winston’s truly surprising seals; Blake and
Granby, returned with a farcical sketch that
could suffer some erosion ; Chas. .T. Johnson ; and
Walter Emerson, who appears to be an interesting
personality. Walter evidently fancies himself as
a warbler of rather silly ditties, but his claim to
this paper’s attention is a star-colliding figure that
ought to be provided with a lift.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Not a word has been said in print about the theatrical
•performance which a certain young actor-gentleman gave
at a private house some weeks ago. It was at the home
of an emotional girl, to whom the mummer was more or
less engaged, until she saw the error of her infatuation,
and “ broke it off.” Suffering from the pangs of despised
love, the hysterical swain went to the abode of his Bianca
and made an awful to-do. He even brandished a revolver
and demanded marriage or the lady’s life. In fact, the
trouble that had begun in comic opera threatened to end
in domestic tragedy, so Bianca’s people sent for the
police, who conveyed the battled suitor to a padded cell,
or tank, or other place of safety. The rest was silence.
The mummer promised to be more reasonable in the
future, and a once stage-struck she is thinking that a
■dead romance is better than a live donkey.
Sydney is to have a big new' theatre—the boss theatre
of Australia—in the Haymarket, where the combusted
Anthony Hordern warehouse once stood. The site will pro-
bably prove either a very good one or a very bad one. It will
at least have this merit, that people starting from there
at II p.m. will catch the train which they would lose if
they started from any other theatre. When the new
building gets going one of the old houses will probably,
as usual, begin to fade away, and most people can name
the house in one try. Sydney hasn’t had a new theatre
for quite a while now. The Criterion, Her Majesty’s, the
Lyceum (now fallen from its high estate), Palace and
'Tivoli came with a rush, wiping out the popularity of the
old Opera House, Gaiety, Standard, Academy of Music,
Masonic Hall and Alhambra ; but theatre building has
been slack during the last few weeks. And there is talk
of yet another new' theatre being built in Oxford-street,
on the site that Mark Foy has deserted for his new
premises.
Melbourne’s excursion steamers—the Hygeia and the
■Ozone —have opened their annual season of Bay trips,
and for the next six months the naif-million inhabitants
of Victoria’s dusty capital will talk, in a wild, sea-faring
tone, of “ going dowm the Bay” as a rare occasional form
■of relaxation. The sight of salt water from the shore of
a marine suburb is more or less familiar to most of them,
but the idea of boarding a steamer and voyaging to a dis-
tant pier occurs to them only in the summer, and is
usually dismissed with a caution. The average Sydney
man, who takes the Manly boat as readily as a duck takes
to water, is a roving pirate in comparison with his Mel-
bourne cousin, to whom any Bay trip means an “excur-
sion ” and a vvhole day off the chain. Therefore, the an-
nouncement that the Hygeia and Ozone are ploughing the
bounding ripple once more betw'een Pore Melbourne and
Sorrento has sent a thrill along Collins-street. Young
men in the soft goods line adopt a nautical rolling gait
when walking down Fiinders-lane. and stock-brokers
stand on the steps of the Exchange, hitching up their
pants ar.d shivering their timbers.
A cockney cachet of fame—good or ill—is conferred
upon the person, living’ or dead, whose effigy figures a
while in Madame Tussaud’s London Waxworks. A mur-
derer must be notorious to get there, and unless his
notoriety is durable, the time soon arrives when his
alleged image is melted down and converted into a newer
celebrity. “ Additions ”to the crowded show are really
conversions. Fame needs to be both cheap and lasting
to retain its place for 25 years in.an up-to-date gathering
of wax people. So it happens that John Tussaud, de-
scendant of the original madame, is the British arbiter in
all disputed questions of fame. The responsibility of
deciding whether Peary or Cook first discovered the
North Pole was too much for the waxworks man, there-
fore he put both of them in evidence a month ago, and
for the present they pose on pedestals beside Shackleton,
whose popularity is likewise precarious. Anyone who
gets ahead of Shackleton in a South Polar direction will
get the reversion of Shack.’s wax, but in the meantime he
seems pretty certain to outstay one or other of the rival
Americans.' Either of them, being proved a vain pre-
tender, will lose his place in the waxworks forthwith,
unless he murders the other fellow. In that case he will
have a long lease of fame in the Chamber of Horrors.
“Melb.”: Wirth’s Circus again, under the bellying
canvas. Overhaul the log, ye Old-Timers. An early
circus in Melbourne was Noble’s canvas affair, upon the
north-west corner of Bourke and Spring streets, opposite
where Parliament House wasn’t then, about 1853. The
place was afterwards turned into a wooden structure, as
the Salle de Valentino. Rowe’s Circus, from San Fran-
cisco, opened not long after Noble’s, on the corner of
Stephen and Lonsdale streets, afterwards the site of
Coppin’s Olympic, now Majestic-square, nearly opposite
Her Majesty’s Theatre. G. B. W. Lewis built. Astley’s
Amphitheatre, afterwards the Princess’s, in 1855, same
year that the Royal and Olympic opened. Lewis dropped
£30,000. Burton’s National Circus, established in 1851,
travelled for about 30 years, till Burton settled in his
hotel at Redbank, but it did not keep him in
clover. At various times he partnered with Bird, Taylor,
etc. Other Australian travelling circuses were Ashton’s,
Gardiner’s, Cousins’, Leon’s, Walhalla’s, and Matthews’.
Cooke, Wilson, and Zoyard’s Great World Circus (about
eight people and six horses)came in 1868. Wilson visited
Australia at sundry times afterwards. Chiarini’s Circus,
in 1873, was magnificent. Copper and Bailey were the
first to hawk over a menagerie from America. Very big
concern altogether. Subsequent ones were Cole’s and
Sells’. The splendid career of the Fitzgeralds needs only
to be mentioned. The Wirth family, after 30 years of
perseverance, comes out on top. The Wirths have travelled
North and South America and England, also New Cale-
donia and other out-of-the-way places. Two of the later
Australian circuses worthy of mention are Eroni’s and
Hyland’s. Malcom’s is about the oldest remembered in
Sydney.
Mrs. William Anderson (Eugenie Duggan), having
noticed that there is a movement to provide one Shaks-
peare with a permanent token of Australian esteem,
remarks that she will be only too delighted to honor Bill
Shakspeare with the proceeds from a benefit performance
by the only other Bill—Bill Anderson ! Doubtless some
sensitive people will object to the dead writer of
“Othello’’ receiving any benefit, even indirect, from the
very live producer of, say, “The Curs’d Human in
London.” Still, what odds? It takes all sorts of money
to provide a memorial, just as it takes all sorts of people
to fill a cemetery.
“Cockaigne”: Pinero’s new play of “Mid-Channel”
has made its way in London by pungent neurotic acting.
The idea is taken from a rock in the Channel between
Boulogne and Folkestone. However quiet the Channel
may be, there is agitation over and around this rock.
Pinero likens it to that period of married life when the
two are changing from lovers to friends. The inevitable
philosopher of the drama is acted by Lowne, who was
with Toole in Australia. The husband is nasty-tempered.
The wife is flirty and addicted to tame cats. They
separate. The husband takes a mistress. The wife goes
to Italy and there meets one of her cats. Very like
“The Case of Rebellious Susan.” The philosopher almost
patches up a reconciliation between the married pair.
The wife forgives the mistress, but the husband won’t
forgive the tame cat business. The wife then falls })ack
on the cat, but he has followed her advice and become
engaged to a girl whom he won’t give up. The wife
throws herself over a balcony, and is no more—barring a
funeral. So it is like “Mrs. Tanqueray,” and also like
“Iris,” in which Asche played Maldonado. The race-
suicide idea is introduced. The wife wants children ;
the husband won’t have them. A clever, unhealthy play
that ought to be damned—at great expense.
“Jean Sibi ”: Maurice Maeterlinck, the Belgian
dramatist, presented Shakspeare under novel conditions
lately. Maeterlinck owns and occupies a fine old abbey
at Caudebee-en-Caux, and at that address he gave a ren-
dering of “ Macbeth ” to a select audience of about 30
persons. The various scenes were enacted according to
requirement in the apartments and grounds of the
ancient building, so that the audience, as well as the
actors, had the exercise of walking- from scene to scene.
And the effect of the whole performance was such as to
satisfy even the author of the creepy “ L’lntruse.” The
witches’ dance in the moonlit garden was described
as weirdly realistic, while the apartment where Banquo’s
ghost appeared satisfied the most exacting of scenic
demands. Altogether the play was a decided success, in
spite of a thing or two. Thus Banquo and Macduff, who
were evidently strangers to the place, lost themselves on
one or two occasions, while the prompter suffered fright-
ful vicissitudes. He had to conceal himself in all sorts of
places, and in one scene had to crouch behind a flower-pot.
“Phidias”: “N. "(B. 7/10/’O9) records the connection
between Oscar Asche’s father and the Union Club Hotel,
Melbourne. What is believed to be the old gentleman’s
first effort as a pub proprietor was made at Geelong, in
Mack’s Hotel, which is almost as old as the town
itself. O. Asche, sen., married the daughter of the
previous licensee, Mr. Trear, which is a thing that any
sane man might do. It was in Geelong that young Othello
was born, presumably at Mack’s Hotel. Oscar was a mere
youngster when he u’as hurried off to make his appear-
ance in the pub which “N.” has mentioned, but the rest-
lessness of the parent Asche resulted in the family later
on packing off for Sydney. It was from Sydney that
Oscar and his dad eventually cleared out for Norway or
some other remote place. Before he took up the manage-
ment of pubs in Victoria, Asche did a little squatting in
the Western District, and when he linked himself to the
Union Club Hotel, he enjoyed a good deal of squatter
business.
“ Antiquary” : I have been re-constructing a forgotten
Melbourne theatre. It extended right through from
opposite the Theatre Royal stage door, in Little Bourke-
street, to opposite the hospital in Lonsdale-street. The
theatre was abolished because the hospital authorities
objected to the danger of fire. The premises are now'
Garton’s stables. J. A. Rowe established the American
Hippodrome there in 1858. He opened a circus in San
Francisco in 1849. Made a pile, came to Melbourne.
Opened Rowe’s American Circus on the corner of Stephen
and Lonsdale streets, afterwards site of Coppin’s Olympic.
Returned to California and back again to Melbourne.
After a spell of his new American Hippodrome, the place
was turned into the Prince of Wales theatre. The
brothers Richard and Fred. Younge managed it. Among
their productions were the drama of “ The Life of a Sailor ”
and the burlesque of “ Camralzaman and Badoura.”
Richard came from England with Brooke in 1855. Fred
came in 1857. When Brooke quarrelled with Coppin,
he made the brothers Younge managers of the Theatre
Royal, but replaced them with Robt. Heir, w'ho was suc-
ceeded by Edwards and Faw'cett. Meanw'hile the Younges
managed Coppin’s Olympic. Then they tried the Prince
of Wales. Fred went back to England, and was the
original George d’Alroy in “ Caste.” After their manage-
ment of the Prince of Wales, William Ryan took it on.
A bill of this period shows the drama of “ The Rose of
Castile ” and the farce of “ The Turkish Bath.” The next
and last manager w'as W. G. Marsh, from America, with
Marsh’s Juvenile Comedians, in “Uncle Tom’s Cahin,”
“ Sea of Ice,” etc. One night a father and mother locked
up their wooden house in Carlton, with three children
abed, and went to enjoy themselves at the Prince of
Wales. When they returned the house and children
were all burnt. Maybe this set the hospital people think-
ing-
(Continued on page 38.)
THE NEW INCENTIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Every girl has a natural trill —Melba to the Melbourne
Conservatorium Students.
The maidens of Melbourne are clearing their
throats,
And practising daily their scales ;
The hot winds waft echoes of weird upper notes,
And so do the southerly gales.
Some voices sound sweet
To the man in the street,
And some sound uncommonly shrill,
But this fact must remain
Indisputably plain :
They have all got a natural trill.
In the dead of the night when the eatson the roof
Indulge in seductive duets,
The dictum of Melba is put to the proof
By dozens of sportive grisettes.
When a first glint of sun
Tells that day has begun,
And red is the brow of the hill,
Soprani galore
Break the silence some more
With the force of their natural trill.
O ! Melba, dear lady, we owe it to you
That the girls who were formerly shy
Of testing their voices in parlor or pew
Now warble like larks in the sky.
And in public, we fear,
They will shortly appear
With this note at the foot of the bill:
“ Birdie Bubble (or Squeak)
Leaves for Europe next week
On the strength of her natural trill.’
VICTORIA.
O.K.


The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
TIME IN ANY CLIME.
%
Nr
✓
//
Highly Finished Cun Metal
Special Lever Watch,
Warranted 5 Years, 20/-.
On the moist seaboard
or in the “Outback”
dry heat, this Special
Lever Watch, fully
jewelled, non-magnetic,
keyless, in highly-
finished gun metal
case, can be relied on
to keep perfect time
and stand any amount
of bard wear. In fact,
it is specially con-
structed for knock-
about use. Made in
styles suitable for
ladies and gents. The
price, 20/-, is right.
We guarantee the
watch, and pay postage.
Wedding; Rings
a Speciality.
Our Famous 20/-
Wedding Ring, 18ct.
Catalogues Posted
Free on
Application.
Ring Card goes
with it.
We have been
making wedding
rings in our own
workshops for 50
years.
Surely we can
claim to be
specialists.
We know what is
required, and for
the low price of
2u/- we sell you
a solid gold wed-
ding ring that,
will stand many
years of wear.
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Watchmakers—Jewellers—Opticians.
98 KING STREET SYDNEY,
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
WELSHED.
CHARLIE: “Did you have a good run for your
money?"
SAM: "Yes! Had to chase the bookmaker two
miles and a half.”
The stoppage of beer in the military
barracks of the Commonwealth recalls the “grog
mutiny ” of the 99th Regiment in the old barracks
in George-street, Sydney, in the ’forties. The
colonel (Despard) stopped the usual allowance of
rum, and substituted a small sum of money. But
the proffered coin was not enough, the men
thought, to recoup them for the loss; so they refused
duty. The Commander-in-Chief, Sir Maurice
O’Connell, harangued the regiment and threat-
ened in his wrath to arm the. convicts on Cockatoo
Island and lead them against the barracks. The
red-coats merely laughed. Then the C.O. sent to
Hobart Town for the 11th Regiment. It came,
but was detained off Coogee for 10 days by
adverse winds. When it landed it marched to
the barracks, and was wildly cheered by the grog-
mutineers, who refused to regard the 11th in a
serious spirit. It didn’t regard itself very seri-
ously either, and cheered back. Then the grog-
mutiny was patched up, and amity and liquor
once more prevailed.
A maddened person, signing himself
“Caution,” wrote to Sydney Telegraph last
week to ask “if any provision had been made to
protect the interests and safety of the citizens of
N.S.W.” living in the proposed Federal capital
territory when that territory is handed over. It
seems, by some grievous oversight, this hasn’t
been done. The writer has gone hurriedly through
the Bill, and there isn’t even a clause to prohibit
Lord Dudley killing and eating the first person he
meets at Canberra as soon as the transfer is
effected.
* * * *
A pleasing claim against a deceased farmer’s
estate is to be heard in Bendigo (Vic.) shortly,
the Law being asked to order the payment of
overdue wages amounting to £763 to Cyril
Ernest Yorath. The youth seems to have been
adopted by the late farmer, William Johns, when
quite young. Johns kept him at school till he
was 14, and then desired him to toil on the farm.
He provided Cyril with food and clothes, and muni-
ficently handed him about £1 a year as pocket-
money, that is to say, he passed him 3d. or 6d. at
a time when the fit took him. Cyril stood this
till he was 23, when he made some remarks about
fixed wages. Thereupon farmer Johns desired
him to continue toiling as before, and promised to
leave him all he possessed. He even made a will
containing certain specific bequests, and leaving
Cyril the residue, between £lOOO and £2OOO. So
Cyril continued struggling, and possessed his
soul in patience. But Johns, the day before
he became the late Johns, made another will
in which Cyril was left with practically nothing.
Then he died, happy in the knowledge that his
last act had been to diddle his faithful employee,
and went to the Land where the Bad Diddlers go.
Now Cyril has resolved, if possible, to make
farmer Johns’ ghost laugh on the other side of
its mouth, and is suing the estate for 17 years’
back pay.
The N.S.W. Government has a heap of
hard explaining to do re the Moree murder case,
by reason of which Chinaman Lee Sing is now
sitting under the shadow of the gallows. Lee
Sing was committed for trial at Moree. A local
firm of solicitors acted for him there in the pre-
liminary proceedings, and when the Attorney-
General’s department agreed to pay the scanty
sum allowed for the defence of impecunious China-
men and others, this firm, which was on the spot
and had already got some knowledge of the case,
might reasonably have been engaged. Instead,
the work was entrusted to a solicitor at Tam-
worth, where the trial was to take place—l3o
miles or more from Moree. The Tamworth soli-
citor went to the local gaol to see his client
and found no Chinaman there. Lee Sing hadn’t
arrived. He continued to fail to arrive till two
days before the trial. Then the enraged solicitor
wired to the Moree gaol for one Chow, and Lee Sing
was sent down. On Sunday (the trial was fixed
for Monday) the solicitor started to extract details
from a bewildered heathen who spoke hardly any
English. The scene of thecrime was 130 milesaway,
and the lawyer probably didn’t even know the place
or what it looked like. The witnesses for the de-
fence were 1 130 miles away, and there was neither
time nor money for a search after them. A post-
ponement might certainly have been asked for,
but there is no proof that that would have made
the money any more plentiful or the distance any
less. Further, when a solicitor was struggling at
very short notice with astrange and veryincompre-
hensible Chow, it was probably difficult todecide all
at once re the value of the witnesses or the ad visa-
bilityof getting them. Even a white man’s case
wants some consideration, and when the defendant
is a chattering yellow object who can only be
approached with difficulty through an interpreter,
it is very like trying to hold hasty confabulation
with a monkey in the bird’s-nest language. Any-
how the legal people did the best they could under
the drawbacks of distance, lack of time, lack of
money and a client who sounded like a lot of
broken crockery, and Lee Sing is to be comfort-
ably hanged unless something intervenes. Mean-
while the Moree solicitors and the Tamworth
solicitor make no disguise of the fact that they
view the Attorney-General’s department with
scorn.
. * * * *
“Nahum Wunhi ” : I’ve got my spectacles
turned on to a beautiful little place to put the
Mary Anne villa I’m going to build with the
money I’m winning over the Cup. There’s a tab-
ernacle alongside, but it hasn’t got any bells, so
I’ll put up with that. I’m told the Church has an
idea that it owns the block, and it certainly has
got a fence around it; but I don’t think that a
little thing like that matters. One of the
deacons or sextons or something told me
that the Church has an idea, too, that it may some
day want the ground to build a lecture hall or a
Sunday-school or another nave—l forget which—
but that isn’t of any consequence either. I feel
pretty sure the Church won’t mind me having it—
me and my Mary Anne villa. You see, I’ve been
reading the report of the Church Congress at
Perth. First of all, the chairman led off by
pointing a long finger to the North, and
asking “Are we going to play the dog-in-the-
manger?” After that nearly everybody had
something to say about the empty North. No-
body seemed to think that we had any right to go
on holding it. If we couldn’t people it ourselves,
then we ought to get indentured laborers, or
kanakas, or some other odd millions to hold it for
us. The idea of keeping a paddock empty and
ready for the boys when they grew up wasn’t
even mentioned. There was only one view—it
ought to be used instantly. If it wasn’t used
at once, then we had no right to it. And
that’s what I thing about that block which
will just do for me and my Mary A. villa. (P.S. :
I also propose to keep a few pigs—but I will draw
a chalk line between them and the church, and
I’ll talk seriously to the pigs about going over the
mark; so the pigs can’t be an objection.) Please
tell me how I ought to go about it. Do I just
pull the fence down and put in rny foundations,
or do you think I ought to send the Bishop a
picture postcard first?
Chronic Constipation.
“For years I suffered terribly from chronic con-
stipation,” writes E. J. 292 Riley Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. “I am now entirely cured
through the use of Laxo-Tonic Rills.” All
sufferers from constipation will obtain like results.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are sold everywhere at 10Ad. and
Is. 6d.*
“ ‘ You must beat a horse or he’ll beat you,’ is a common
assertion. This belief illustrates the basic principle
guiding the whole of the horse-breaker’s operations, and
accounts for all the clumsy stupidity and heartless
cruelty of the average breaker. By my system I master
a horse without beating him.”
Thus Gilbert Jeffery in an article on “ The Edu-
cation of the Horse” in the November Lone
Hand. As all Australians are lovers of the horse
all Australians should read this instructive article,
illustrated by remarkable photographs of the
author’s method, by an expert “ horse-educator. ’*
Maoriland Dominion sent its horse re-
porter to a health lecture the other evening, and
this was the result: —
Adenoids were spoken of by Dr. Truby King in his lec-
ture last evening as one of the most common troubles of
young people. “In some districts,” he said, “ the diffi-
culty is to fine a boy or a girl who is not so afflicted.”
During the lecture photographs illustrating the serious
effects of aneroids on the lungs and brain were shown.
The doctor pointed out that if children were brought up
under common-sense principles, adenoirs and similar
growths would disappear.
N T O ESCAPE EVEN HERE.
IMMORTAL COUNTER-JUMPER : “Yes, madam, these
goods are warranted not to shrink. I
thoroughly recommend them. I WEAR 'EM
MYSELF.”
Of all the Melbourne suburban councils,
Prahran’s is doing about the most progressive
things. Besides the ordinary municipal services,
it is now running its own rubbish destructor and
its own quarry, and it is taking a hand in building
an electric tramway. This would be a very ordi-
nary record, no doubt, for an advanced crowd like
the London County Council; but for such an
antediluvian lot as the P’ran councillors it is in-
credible. Most of them are bitterly Anti-Sosh in
politics, and are mayored bv an unmitigated prop-
puty owner named Naylor, who is typical of the lot.
Yet when he and his brother heirlooms get to-
gether, they evolve schemes that would do credit
to a mob of Socialists. Of course they would be
horror-stricken if they were told that they merely
practise what the awful Socialists preach, and if
they were convinced of it, they would probably
commit some outrageous acts of grief. Poor old
Naylor, for instance, might eat his boots. And
anybody who knows Naylor’s boots will realise
what that would mean in the way of sacrifice and
expiation.
INSTANT RELIEF.
“My poor little Ikcy fell down and cut his head
something terrible
“Did you do anything for it?"
“Yes; I gave him a penny."
The idle thoughts of a non-union under-
taker :
The female poisoner who appears at long intervals in
the dock to account for the unreasonable deadness ot
someone is invariably a crude murderess. She has all the
necessary cold-bloodedness and quiet determination, but
she knows only one poison, and her habit of running
round to the local chemist and hurriedly getting ounces
and pints of it is remembered against her when the glory
of the funeral has blown off, and the neighbors have the
death and surrounding circumstances accurately
focussed. The favorite substance of the suburban Mail
Jane Brin vilhers
is arsenic—the
administrati o n
of which has to
be spread over
months, with
the risk of dis-
covery always
haunting the
kitchen where
the extra pep-
per - caster is
hid. Arsenic is
as old as the
Borgias, and it
is fashionable ;
so, when sus-
picion is a
roused and the
grave is opened,
the arsenic
test is the first
applied. The
black Austra-
lian lady of
North Queens-
land has a bet-
ter means of
getting lev e 1
with her ene-
mies. Her
weapon is a
tree called Ery-
thophlceum La-
boucheri. A
splinter of it is
as good as
snakebite,
while a bean or
two mixed with
food induces
total blindness.
Even the smoke
from a fire
made of the
wood is sup-
posed to be
deadly. The
dreadful vege-
table was lately
mentioned by Archibald Meston, protector of N.Q.
aborigines, in a lecture given by him before the
Natural History Society in Sydney. In a professional
sort of way, it would be interesting to know if any
cold systematic woman in this corner of the Common-
wealth found that lecture interesting. Will the future
Australian woman poisoner cheerfully urge the intended
victim to sit over the fire and be comfortable. It is a
gruesome reflection, and the only consoling thing about
it is the probable difficulty of getting Erythophlceum
Laboucheri to grow luxuriantly in a suburban backyard.
The suburban poisoner sitting under the shade of her
poison supply on a hot afternoon is an almost impossible
vision, as is also the spectacle of her receiving a cargo of
wood and chopping it up at great personal risk with the
usual blunt axe.
Albany (W.A.) is again on the warpath
over the mail-steamer question: it wants the
boats to call there instead of at Fremantle, or to
call there as well as at Fremantle. And it is
hard to see why they shouldn’t. Any boat might
feel a moral and spiritual upliftment when it saw
Albany. That place has the sort of harbor that
Providence makes when it is in a good humor—or
rather it has two or three harbors connected by nar-
row channels. When Providence had dug out this
quaint chain of harbors it got its largest size in
buckets and poured out 33ft. of water (low tide
measurement) where the wharf stands. And all
round these great picturesque wildernesses of
water this writer didn’t see one advertising board
that urged the public to buy Christian Berriel’s
ready-made wooden overcoat at 10s. 6d. It seems
a pity that Albany should be on one of the side-
tracks of commerce instead of being on a
main highway. The place is a poem bound in
blue and green—at least, the last time this
writer saw it the outer harbor was green, and the
inner harbor, which opens out of it, was bluish-
green, and the innermost harbor was blue. As
for the islands, they are all colors and sizes, and
one of them is shaped rather like an elephant,
and another is shaped like Thomas Bent lying
down, and the others are all shapes; • And they
are as numerous as the late B. J. Fink’s debts
when the banks burst.
* * * *
To get an idea of the cocky’s estimate of
his own importance, read “ A Farmer’s” letter to
S. M. Herald (27/10/’o9):
We have the promise of a record wheat harvest, and it
looks as if growers are going to have some trouble in
getting sufficient labor to take the wheat off. The
labor that is available seems to be inclined to stick up
harvest operations for more money and unreasonable
terms. It would be a good opportunity to give the
elder boys of our Sydney public and private schools a
chance to gain harvesting experience during the
Christmas holidays. The boys should get ample
remuneration according to the work they do. It is
the duty of the Government to see that there is no ob-
struction put in the way of the farmers in petting their
wheat off. If there is not enough labor to go round, all
public ivories should be stopped, and let all available labor
go harvesting.
It’s a great idea; nay, it’s magnificent, stu-
pendous, colossal, also picturesque, sublime and
poetical. In fact it is a devil of an idea. For
instance, when all public works are stopped and
all available labor goes harvesting, and Governor
Chelmsford is swinging a hay rake, and his aide
is uplifting a loaded pitchfork, and Premier Wade
is addressing a team of oxen, and Acting-Chief
JusticeSimpsonisthatchingahaystack, and Com-
missioner Tom Johnson is putting a colossal load on
a wheat truck that isn’t there—but no ! The possi-
bilities are really too vast for one paragraph.
THE LEPERS’ LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Grace Merton, 19, Lillian Merton, 17, and George
Baynes, 24, were drowned in a boating accident. — Holi-
day occurrence anywhere.
The two lepers whose boat was blown out to sea reached
land safely next day near Cape Moreton. — Brisbane
telegram.
A sparrow falls not to the ground,
But that Convention’s God doth mark
The little voice that loseth Sound—
The little fire that lost its spark.
Haphazard science wags its beard
And saith, “ The fittest shall survive,
That only progress be revered
And never unfit man shall thrive.”
The dotard father stands beside
The grave of his strong, splendid son,
Who loveless left his lovely bride —
The dotard saith : “ Thy will be done ! ”
Glib Knowledge wags its beard again.
And cries that the unfit shall die ;
While youth and beauty droop in pain,
And stiffen stark, despite the lie.
Beauty and youth are lost to us ;
Strength and its snare go down to death !
The rotten lungs of Lazarus
Hold grimly to the rotten breath !
The deep, illimitable wave
Drowns the strong swimmer far below ;
Love, mourning by its open grave,
Youth, beauty, strength, so swiftly go 1
Laughing they went—the clamant youth
Handfasted with the clement maids ;
Blind Fate, that knows not sense of ruth,
Sent them to rot among the shades.
The sea that taketh of our good—
The grave that reives our best from us—
Spurned these as far too vile a food,
And saved the sores of Lazarus.
Above the children’s cries of pain,
When all the mourning lamps were lit,
I heard the Shibboleth again—
“ The wise survival of the fit.”
They wagged their beards—the solemn twain,
“ The best survive 1 ” —“ The soul doth rise ! ”
Losing of truth the little grain
In dogma 1 generalities 1
Blind puppets of blind force we are !
Blind moths that burn in blinded sun !
I heard the dotard tell the star —
T'..e steadfast star : “ His will be done !”
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Women’s Labour Union.
One hear of an Australian woman’s time
should be and is worth more than the
value of a bar of soap. If a woman can
buy a tablet of soap that will save her
one hour alone of labour per day she has
he soap for nothing. Sunlight Soap, used
in the Sunlight way, will save much more
than an hour in the day. Try one Tablet
and note directions on the Wrapper. You
will be pleased with the rorilts, and you
will surely join the Women’s Sunlight
l.abour Upior\»
RUB-A-DUB, rub-a-dub,little
boy Blue. CHERRY
BLOSSOM POLISH is
the polish for you.
And it’s the polish for everyone
who likes a good shine that comes
quickly, easily and economically.
Have you tried a tin vet? Most
dealers sell them at 3d. and 6d.
each—large tins they are, too.
If you have any difficulty in
being supplied, write to us and
the matt.ter will be adjusted.
fdhfd
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
&
Breeches 8 Leggings for Horseback.
FOR years we have made a specialty of horsemen’s apparel, main-
taining a high standard of quality and serviceability in these
goods. We draw, your attention to our Riding Breeches and
Leggings as illustrated here. The RIDING BREECHES are
tailored in the best possible manner, with every seam strongly sewn
almost wholly by hand. They possess extreme comfort; will stand the
hardest wear ; at the same time being of elegant shape and good fit.
OUR LEGGINGS are of the easy-fitting kind, convenient to put
on and off, of well-tanned leather, good finish, and shaped properly to
conform to the leg.
RIDING BREECHES in Kharki Cord, 22/6 ; Kharki Drill, 15/6.
PUTTEE LEGGINGS, Imitation Pigskin, 10/6 ; Real Skin, 16/6.
New Catalogue, to be issued immediately, sent on request.
PEAPES and CO., LTD..
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
It begins to look as if there may never be
any conclusion to the building of Melbourne’s new
Central Station and the arguments and expenses
connected therewith. The dispossessed contractor,
Peter Rodger, has now appealed to Parliament
for a select committee to inquire into his griev-
ances. After averring that he was hampered in
his contract by the gradualness, uncertainty and
incompetence of the railway officials, he now com-
plains that the Commissioners are using his plant,
and decline to deliver it up to him, that they are
behind in their payments on such part of the con-
tract as he completed, that they persist in retain-
ing his deposit and certain percentages, and that
bitterly they have declined to correspond with
jhim, and that he can get neither “Yes,” “No,”
nor even “Yes-No” out of them. A general im-
pression prevails that the station is built on a
Chinaman’s grave, and that there will never be
any luck attached to it except bad luck, and that
the bad luck will be six different kinds of horrible.
A LESSON IN DEDUCTION.
"Did you do any good at the Cup ?”
“I just held my own.”
“ Father didn't bet any either.”
How artlessly tricky is Melba’s scheme of
“ A Nellie’s Collection ” in aid of the Bush Nurs-
ing Fund ! The collecting cards issued by the
songstress are only for women and girleens bearing
the name of Nellie, Ellen or Helen, but contri-
butors by any other name may swell the receipts.
To the Nellie who hands in the biggest amount
Melba will present “a suitable prize,” concerning
which curiosity is going almost as strong as the
collection competition. “Suitable” is so wide a
word.
London’s latest pub—the Strand Palace
Hotel—hangs out the announcement that “ the
attendants are forbidden to receive tips.” If this
proves an attractive bait for the public, some of
the old expensive hotels are bound to reduce their
superfluous staff of cadgers, and pay a fair living
wage to just as many “ hands” as are absolutely
required. The bitterest complaint against the
hotel “tipping” system has ever been that it
taxed and worried the lodger for the support of
creatures who thrust their unneeded services upon
him, It is a system that breeds its own parasites.
* * * *
The Bulletin hastens, by republishing
this clipping from the Zekhan and Dundas
Herald (Tas.), to bring a desirable billet under
the notice of the public :
MUNICIPALITY OF KINGAKOOMA.
APPLICATIONS (accompanied with Testimonials),
addressed to the Warden, will be received at this
Office up to 4 p.m. on SATURDAY, the 30th dav of
October, 1909. for the POSITION of SANITARY
INSPECTOR, INSPECTOR OF STOCK, CODLIN
MOTH, POTATO, FRUIT, WEIGHTS and MEA-
SURES, COLLECTOR OF SANITARY FEES, DOG
and other Licenses ; also to carry out the Duties of
any other Inspection or Collection that may be
required in the above-named Municipality.
Salary, £125 per annum.
Applicant to state age ; also to provide his own
horse, or other mode of conveyance, free of cost to
the Council. No forage or other expenses allowed.
, J..C. FARRELL,
Council Clerk.
Dated at Derby this sth day of October, 1909.
A policeman will bp stationed at the door to
rescue applicants who may go down in the rush
and be trodden underfoot.
* * * *
Cornelius Crowe, of Melbourne, most irre-
pressible of ex-constables and persistent of alarm-
ists, who for years has been flinging libellous
pamphlets at boss policeman O’Callaghan, .John
Wren and other notorious citizens, is now attack-
ing them some more with a red-covered booklet
entitled “The Inquiry Agent,” which is largely
composed of extracts from The Bulletin and The
Lone Hand, with Crowe’s moralisings thereon.
Most of the things he has ever said are repeated,
and many new “revelations” are made in Crowe’s
delightfully candid sixpenny shocker. One of the
new items (on page 80) is his story of an interview
with Bent re The Bulletin’s publication of a
scandalous incident known as “The Bedchamber
Plot.” In the words of the booklet, Bent “called
at my office, January 7, 1908, and asked me what
he had done to me that I should republish this
scandal. I told him that personally I viewed his
conduct as of small consequence compared with
the seriousness of the vile conspiracy of putting
up such a plot for the purpose of blackmailing him,
and for the plotters to afterwards use it as a lever
for working their own corrupt ends. I said: ‘These
are the ruffians I want to get at, not you—as I
believe they are the same villains who conspired
against myself.’ ‘ All right,’ said he ; ‘ you let me
alone, and I’ll see that you get justice.’ I accepted
his word ; at the same time I had little hope of
his being able to carry out his promise to me, a
thing which he has never done.” The notion of
Bent trying; to get anything done to Crowe that
would do him any good is decidedly humorous.
After Sydney Coroner Stephen Murphy
had returned the usual verdict in a very usual
sort of case the other
day, he went on to
quote figures to show
how usual that sort
of case was. During
the last five years,
it seems. 42 chddren
have been fatally
pea-rifled in the Ma
State, and last year
C. Berrial, the tomb-
stone man, was
called upon to supply
final furniture, of
assorted styles and
sizes, for 31 custom-
ers owing to the fatal
small gun. Th i s
holocaust moved the
coroner to remark
that things should be
done, and he sug-
gested these four :
(1) Persons under
16 to he prohibited
from carrying fire-
arms ; (2) anyone
leaving loaded
firearms within reach
of children to be liable
to punishment; (3) pre-
sentationof firearms, loaded
or not, at any person to be a
legal assault; (4) the issue of
licenses to carry firearms.
There are certainly points
about Coroner Murphy’s sug-
gestions; but while he was
on the subject he might have
said a word or two about the
cheap and ugly imported gun—
the contraption that will either go
off if you look at it, or burst if you try
to spell a hard word in its vicinity. That gas-
pipe gun is almost as bad as the pea-rifle, and in
one sense it is worse, for its air of bogus reliability
leads people astray. They put their faith in it
and it turns dog on them in three pieces. •
“ Poneke ” writes from Wellington :
The Wellington steamer Duco, 125 tons, which left
Maoriland’s windy capital on September 7 to go a-fishing
at the Chathams has never since been heard of. William
Waddilove, first officer, was known in Australia, having
been in the P. and O. service. He was master of the
Orotava on its maiden voyage from London to Australi \.
Search steamers have been out for 10 days, zigzagging the
waters, and have found no trace ; and now the Ripple has
got back from the Chathams with a similar report. It was a
fearful night when the Duco plodded on the waters from
Wellington. The skipper of a 3000-ton steamer which
crossed Cook Strait the same night says the gale was one
of the worst in his 30 years’ experience. The Duco
probably went down that very night. It is to be hoped
a searching inquiry will be held. There seems to be
doubt whether it had five or 25 tons of coal in bags on
deck. This business strengthens the complaint of the
Seamen’s Union that the precautions for the safety of
sailors are not too rigorous in Maoriland. Still, one
would think mere sordid considerations would .prompt
more care. It costs money to buy new steamers, though
the finding of a fresh crew may be cheap enough.
Maoriland is threatening to set the world
a good example in the matter of State-owned
ferry services. Maoriland’s largest gap between
its State-owned railway lines is that at present
existing between Lyttelton and Wellington. It
is bridged over by the Union S. S. Co., and in a
less degree by Huddart Parker and Co. It has
been a profitable service for years, and lon Ward’s
announcement that, “at no very distant date,” he
proposes to join the railway systems by a
State-owned steamer service is hailed with delight
by the most virulent Anti-Socialist of them all,
the Farmers’ Union. But in all probability the
Lyttelton to Wellington service is nearing its end
anyhow. With the bursting up of the big
estates in northern Canterbury the rush
of settlement has dragged
the railway further and
further north till it is
now close up to Picton,
in Marlborough. When
it reaches Picton all
reason for the dangerous,
tumultuous run from
Lyttelton to Wellington
will vanish. The South
Island railway will end
on the wharf at Picton,
whence it is three or four
hours’ run across Cook
Strait to Wellington.
Lyttelton will look more
dreary and desolate than
it does even now when
the new arrangement
happens, and the quiet
old town of Picton will
blossom out into a great
city of palatial hotels and bloated rents. And then
the men who tried to get rid of land thereabout,
and failed because no one would have the land as
a gift, will find themselves suddenly grown rich,
and will pose as talented financial blokes, who
made their money by keen insight and other
mental qualities they never previously heard of,
let alone possessed.
* » * *
The Suffragette is going strong these times
in calm old England. Two ladies dropped in
casually the other day at the Bermondsey polling
booth and poured chemicals into the ballot box
(some of it splashed on the returning officer, and he
is likely to lose an eye). And a lady who was doing
a term in gaol at Manchester so effectually barri-
caded her door with her bedstead that the warders
couldn’t get in. Also she defied and scorned
them through the keyhole ; and, even though the
hose was pushed into the window of her cell
and water was squirted on her hard for an hour,
she refused to surrender. A despairing Govern-
ment has released her and urged her to go and
live in a dry spot—Persia, for instance.
What with the “new curriculum,” nature
study, the threatened Bible lessons in the State
schools, the talked-off lectures on sex physiology
and other matters, the Vic. State schools are
likely to lead the strenuous life shortly. And the
other day Minister Billson almost promised, a
deputation that he would agree to competent
instruction being given on the basic principles of
morality, good conduct and good citizenship. As
to this* last, why, certainly ! A complete course
of lessons on honesty in word and deed, self-
respect, regard for other people’s rights, public
spirit, love of one’s country and duty would be
the larger part of a liberal education. And a
subsidiary course for persons of neglected educa-
tion might with advantage be offered to the pur-
veyors of Stinking Fish.
MORE COW CULTURE.
“ Sterilise the cow, and the milk will take .care of it-
self.” This theory inspired Mr. Kelsey, of the School of
Experimental Farming in Cincinnati, owner of £15,000
worth of Jerseys, who declares, in a report published in
New York, that he has largely increased the quantity and
quality of his milk, because the cows are bathed every
day, their teeth are cleaned with a brush three times
daily, and during the hot weather the animals are pro-
tected by linen coats, which keep off the flies and mos-
quitos, and prevent them being worried. —News Item.
Cocky: “ Hey , Bill! Why the blanky blithery
aitch ain’t yer cleaned Strorberry’s teeth ? ”
Voice from the Shed (despairingly): “Give a
bloke time. I ain’t done sharin’ the bull yet!”
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
SOME ADVICE TO AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Australia, resign your childish dreams—awake !
arise ! it is your country calls ! — George Reid, at the fifth
annual demonstration in Victoria of the Australian
Women's National League.
Awake ! Oh, gosh !—awake once more ? Arise ?—no rest
for those who wish
To do their bit of angling for the shy, wild, democratic
fish !
Arise ? (Or sit ?) Yes-No demands the loud applause of
every one
Who (Hi —awake! If not, sleep on !) would see the
Laborite undone.
Young-old Australia, sitting now at buns and tea—your
country calls,
And you must rise, though clogged with food, and cheer
when Georgie-porgie bawls.
Awake ! (But doze if you prefer it !) Rise (unless your
lap is full)!
Awake, sit down, or, sleeping, stand and grab rude Labor
by the wool!
Young-old Australia, hear ye now the voice of Some-
body—No? Yes?—
In accents mild upraised once more, the cause of Anti-
Sosh to bless ?
ft is your country calling ! Aye ! (Or nay, if otherwise !)
Arise !
And, rising, sleep, dear dame, with mad hate gleaming in
your gentle eyes!
Yes, wake and dream some more ! Stand up !—and, as
you sit, break forth in sound !
Hearken in silent homage, while your penetrating cries
abound !
Yet—list! —above the noise of feet, of gamps and sobs
and frantic paws,
The frightful laughter of the gods who hear Australia’s
loud applause!
VVhen Young Australia (old’un, too !) sits there in rows
and rows and thinks,
And, scone-devouring, hearkens to the “ lap-lap ” as its
neighbor drinks,
What does Young-old Australia do when Georgie says
“Arise ! Awake !”?
What but to drowsily applaud through mouthfuls of
fresh tea and cake?
Sit, then, or rise, Australia—young or old —and wake, or
sleep, awhile,
And meet gay George’s wisdom with a ladylike and
gracious smile !
Lift up your feet, Australia, now, and let ’em fall again,
to dash
Upon the floor in Loud Applause and make a silent home-
less crash.
VICTORIA.
FRANH HENTY.
THE EPICURE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TTO ! Varlets clear the dining hall,
And get a table there,
Arrayed in choicest napery,
And decked with golden ware.
Bring food that’s meet for gods to eat,
Make dishes 7-are and fine,
Atid fill a golden chalice tip
With bubbling Grecian wine.
I’m sick of flesh and sick of fowl,
Of fruit and fishes, too.
N. s. w.
My slave-fed lampreys only cloy —
I want a dainty new.
Oh ! take away that capon fat,
Remove that larded hare.
My jaded palate hungers for
A more ambrosial fare.
1 loathe the taste of earthly fowl,
I long for choicer things;
Go, break the gates of Heaven down,
I’ll dine on angels’ wings.
HENRY HAUPTMANN.


hr.hsT fr.* tit C.*^
Of , Co™~,c.n* 'rfUn **><“* +* f^f' 11 ’*••'
w 'h- •-
you bt'urTe. l __
Hubby:— Wby, >*sK owly Quw'Kh-'
Ho owe, oM st^v'f'
/v\y e_ II
Q*r d - e '°
“IWp Cx»m 0 *J r ft d>o«r
W-aoonroos^^iu
Hi's kT» bs\ —•
As 'tfr-z ,r 7ce
k Of J)arKW«ss *
| o loje.&lT -h
»tew jW>% ,ec t
!
Pate r \ It] 15 t^l>T s^/ir 7^ Sell «*»e
roy x/a v rrr>es't' j
‘
wWC itfc v/it^
etvK'e**' 1 ?
pßopoyu, To \
pur the. clock ;
on 9o MINUTER
C, SUMMED
Honths
\ JoHn-Muri^y
TiS "sie, Voice
We lie&r li»ni e*f>Wm,
ill "We i«
Avici 111 slu*nl>«r
Tb's •S dv dejptif&ftori on framier.
<1 he/ object to ifieit' Iro«r s o>> -tile* feeing sWerW .
SyKes "to Vs s '• —* If i^cyVc
V§oin' fo 'bloom.n
clocK on a,n liour
well live -$e C©*nih %
down fo
/finished
THE DAYLIGHT SAVING SCHEME—(Some Artistic Reflections.)


m
It was not the CORTICELLI kitten that first made
CORTICELLI SPOOL SILK
famous —it was the remarkable length, strength
and smoothness of the silk itself.
For nearly seventy years CORTICELLI
SILK has held the World’s Record for superi-
ority and to-day .the name “CORTICELLI”
still stands for the very best made.
CORTICELLI SILK MILLS
ESTABLISHED 183^
L Australasian Office - -91 a YORK STREET, SYDNEY
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties ,
Send full particulars, with all plans and repo-ts
available, to “ MINE.” care J. H. FAWCETT.
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
THERMOS
HAMPERS,
You put hot food into the dishes and 10 hours
afterwards you open them up, and your meal is
just as hot as when put in.
A Squatter or Traveller may have his dinner
prepared in the morning and enjoy it steaming
hot at dusk.
We now have these Hampers in stock at the
above prices.
&
mi
Hamper with
2 Enamel
Pots, 455;
with 3. Pots,
635.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
Dear Bulletin, — Be your remarks
(30/9/’O9) on “selling the horse.” In these
parts (S.A.) the horse seldom occurs, but what
is known as the German shout is common. All
hands line up, and one (usually Bung) puts down
a number between five and 25. The next on his
left starts to count at any number he chooses,
and the counting is carried on in rotation
until one calls the figure put down. That
costs him 3d. He pays his 3d., and puts a num-
ber down as before, and the counting is carried on
again. As soon as one man is let in for Is. he
stands out, but is still entitled to his drink. The
game is carried on until sufficient capital is ob-
tained for the round of drinks. Thus it can
never cost a man more than Is., whereas single
shouting in a mob of 10 means ss. (all drinks a
zaok).— Yours etc., Rose Geblind.
THOUGHT HE MEANT UNCLE.
GEORGE: “ Well, I’ve made up me mind at larst
Bill; I’m going down to get me teeth out."
BILL: “ Orlright, mate; but make sure y' ain’t
lost the ticket."
“C.S.A.”: I don’t know any vice that
gets such a grip on a man as sugar-growing does.
My friend Blithers bought a debilitated sugar
ranch, which had apparently got mislaid, up
Cairns way. He was a nice man, and energetic,
and was going to revolutionise that mess of a
farm —build a sweet little homestead with pali-
sading around it; grow all his own edibles, paw-
paws, oranges, vegetables; cold-shoulder the local
chop-distributor, likewise the Chinese cabbage-
monger. In fact, he was going to live like a com-
mission agent. His dreams didn’t realise. I
called the following year, and, after grappling
with the same old mutilated barb-wire gates,
noted that the dilapidated apology for a house
still did duty as residence and roared for a coat
of paint. The same fossilised-looking animals
roamed disconsolately round, waiting for chop-
chop. A cow with one eye and several teats
closed down languidly scraped ticks off against
anything that appeared capable of stand-
ing the strain. I waylaid Blithers, who was
frantically rushing round trying to be in several
places at once, and made anxious inquiries re the
edible stuff he once had in his mind’s eye. “Oh !
haven’t time to bother with those trifles —wanted
the land for sugar, anyhow,” he replied, as he
slowed down to about six knots. The missus
asked me to dinner—he hadn’t time. This meal
consisted of corned bullock and rice and a strong
smell of cane-beetles. The last wasn’t on the
menu, but the youngsters had arrived home for
lunch with a kerptin half full, and had left it in
the corner meantime. By way of what I thought
a joke, I inquired which paid best—cane-
growing or “ beetle’’-catching. He answered
briefly that I was a damn fool. Yet he was a nice
man once, before the sugar got him !
“ T.F.M.” : Again and again I have met
the stereotyped statement —that “Leichhardt’s
last letter was dated from McPherson’s station,
Cogoon, April 3, 1848” ; but not one of those who
profess to know all that is to be known about
Leichhardt can say to whom that letter was
addressed. Can any of The Bulletin’s oldest
inhabitants? Leichhardt’s mysterious fate seems
to have been primarily a case of cherchez la femme,
just as was the later Burke and Wills tragedy at
Cooper’s Creek. Neither Leichhardt nor Burke
had any of the qualities of the successful explorer,
although they both'had a big cargo of foolhardi-
ness. Leichhardt was perhaps the more fool-
hardy of the two. Burke certainly had some
“ colonial experience ” of a sort, but Leichhardt
was just as verdant a new chum when he set
out on his third (and last) expedition as when
he set out on his first. Major Mitchell,
the N.S.W. Surveyor-General, contemptuously
termed him “a d d foreign * waster,”
and Daniel Bunce, the botanist of his
second expedition, infers that on that trip they
were mostly occupied in lookingfor their lostleader.
A Ilian who clung to his pot-hat in the Australian
desert, and who lost himself every time he wan-
dered out of sight of his own camp, would hardly
be likely to lead an expedition successfully across
Australia from east to west in 1909, let alone
1848. But Leichhardt was out after fame. He
was infatuated with a lady in his own country—
young, beautiful and exalted—and reckoned upon
dazzling her with his achievements as an explorer.
In the same way, Burke had fallen a victim to the
charms of Julia Mathews, and reckoned that the
charmer who spurned the police inspector might
fling herself at the feet of the hero who had been
the first to cross Australia from south to north.
The worst feature of the business was that they
both flung away the lives of other men as well as
their own.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Just now the
Mighty Plains of Further Out are good to see and
to smell. A Mulga mate of mine writes to say
that there are wonderful expanses made yellow
with everlastings and “billy-buttons”; and
the crisp, dry, clear, exhilarating air—pure
as water, strong as wine—is scented for miles
and miles and miles. In many parts, the
white everlastings that grow in millions make
the country look as if it were covered with
snow. Unfortunately, the wonderful wealth
of variegated vegetation is not of a per-
manent character. The grass grows scarcer
and scarcer. Heigho ! It’s strange how the
West calls to those who have once served it.
For weal or woe, lit sets its seal, upon
all who have done time as Outback
exiles ; and when the perfect winter and
the magic spring come, Outback calls
and callsy till its lovers, bound to the
wheel of circumstance uncontrollable, long
and long for the sights and sounds and smells
and sizes of the Great Open Spaces, whose
spacious, gracious life would expand even the
starved and shrivelled souls of States-Frighters.
* * * *
“Phidias”: Recently I witnessed a san-
guinary battle between two Quongs—just the
01 d.nary cabbage-garden variety of Chow. There
had been an argument over a woman, or some
cabbages, or something, and just as I arrived on
the spot the Celestials einematographed into one
another with such a clout and din that every fowl
in the neighborhood began to cackle, and the air
which the combatants disturbed dislodged my hat.
They went mad, those two yellow heaps of Chow,
and they smote each other hip and thigh. A
minute’s wind-milling, and then, as with one
accord, they rolled to the ground to conclude the
gory contest. The air peeked with the smell of
gore and Mongolian—when the latter gets heated
he gives off a peculiar odor that makes him seem
even more Chowy than before. Best of all was
the mouth-fighting. J. Johnsing couldn’t approach
those Celestials in this respect. They daiimed
each other 50 to the minute, and finally, as they
bit and tore and scrambled off the roadway, they
dammed the water in the gutter. Five times they
furrowed their way across the street in their
struggles. They altered the whole landscape, and
tore up the earth in cartloads. When we separated
them they were dilapidated specimens of Agony,
and had lost much blood. We guided them to
their countrymen, and then dispatched a mes-
senger to ask the contractor to repair the road.
That was a fight ! It was so different from all
others.
Stop It!
A neglected cough or cold may lead to serious
bronchial or lung troubles. Don’t take chances,
for Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and
Colds affords perfect security from serious effects
of a cold. Small dose. Pleasant to take. Every
bottle guaranteed.*
IS ADORE.
ISADORE BLOOMSTEIN : “ Thee here, Abe, I've got a good conundrum for you. Ven ith a door
not a door
ABE: “Ven he’s a confounded Jew , Ithadore."
“Chink”: I reckon (large-sized, reckon)
that I know the “swagvvoman” referred to by
the much-travelled “Jimmie Pannikin” (B.
14/10/’O9). In fact, only for one little item, rriy
reckon would be a certainty, and that item is the
fact that my swagwoman didn’t have a swag. She
was a rum personage altogether, with an aggres-
sive religious cant to larboard, and when she
announced one morning that she was embarking
on a protracted journey “on the work of the
Lord,” nobody in our little township was amazed.
Her husband did not raise any obstacle to the
proposal (he had been dead three or four years),
neither did her children (there didn’t happen
to be any); and so off the lady started to
pad the hoof to the Canaan the Lord
had marked out for her —the backblocks of
N.S.W. Anything in the shape of a swag
or bundle did not fit in with her plan of pil-
grimage. Perish the thought! A band of
old-time disciples toured Palestine without
Matilda ; why shouldn’t their successor do
likewise? Her plan was simple. Keeping
to the country as much as possible, she
would select a likely-looking residence and
breast up to the householder with the
modest remark, “ I’m travelling on the work
of the Lord, and require a night’s lodging,”
serenely confident that the Lord had ap-
prised the resident of His follower’s ap-
proaching visit. Matters progressed fairly
well until she neared the Outback haunts of
“Jimmie Pannikin” and other sinners.
There, one day, her guiding star did not
materialise, and nightfall found her lost in
the bush. The story of that eventful night
has been graphically rolled into verse by
herself, and this poetic narrative, together
with other effusions of a like nature, has
been since retailed at Outback Bible classes
galore. This enthusiastic old soul infested
Outback regions for a goodly time, and
then meandered off to Melbourne, charged
with a similar message to Yarra-bank sin-
ners. And there she hangs out at present,
still, at over 70, as pushful and earnestly de-
clamatory as when she sought years ago to
fill the “ Pannikins” of the sunset land with
salvation.
“ Moorabinda ” : The country round about
Mount Gambier, the principal town in the south-
east of South Australia, is volcanic, and the soil
very rich. The far-famed Blue Lake is the crater
of an extinct volcano. There are lesser lakes and
numberless caves in the neighborhood. Seven-
teen miles distant is the open roadstead of Port
Mac Donnell, and to the westward from this, and
nearer to Adelaide, are the harbors of Beachport,
Robe and Kingston. Kingston is connected by
rail with Naracoorte, 50 miles inland, which is
famous for the caves in its vicinity. They are of
great extent, and, when lighted up, their
spacious chambers and winding galleries form a
spectacle of wondrous beauty. Great quantities
of guano, so called, were at one time procured
from some of the caves, and the stuff was valued
as excellent manure. It was composed principally
of the remains of marsupials. For many years
in one of these underground passages there lay
the petrified remains of an aboriginal, who, it was
supposed, had retreated there to die after being
shot in an encounter with the early white settlers.
Some travelling showman once carried off this
curiosity. The act, though deprecated, scarcely
came within the description of any offence known
to South Australian law ; but Mr. Strangways,
author of the Land Act bearing his name, is
credited with having suggested that the body-
snatcher should be proceeded against under a local
statute for “ removing stone without a. license.’’
At any rate, the plunder was recovered, restored
to the cave, and enclosed with an iron railing.
The showman, however, carried it off again, got
safely away, and exhibited it in Europe.
THE UNFORTUNATE SWEEPER.
EMPLOYER: “ There's half-a-crown missing from
here; do you know anything about it?"
THE SWEEPER: “No , sir; I ain’t seen a tray-bit
in this office since I’ve been working for yer?"
“ Paroa Mutfcon-birding is in full swing
round the tishy coasts of Ward’s mortgaged islands.
When Henare and Wiretnu shake; off their taihoa
habit and go cliff-climbing where the mutton-
birds have their holes, they always take care to
carry a supply of flax with them. This flax
purpose only to be conceived by a Maori. This is
what Henare says: “You put yo’han’ into te
hole. Pull out mutton-bird quick. Tie em flax
round neck. If not, by ’Ell, te bird sick. No
good then.” Why it should spoil the flavor for
the bird to be sick, Henare knoweth not. Still
in Bull’s country they serve up snipe with the
inside in, and that is just as curious an idea, arid
a good deal dirtier.
THE WAY THAT THE WATERS COME DOWN TO
YASSBERRA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Have you heard how the waters come down to Yassberra ?
Yes; rushing and gushing,
And falling and brawling,
And dashing and splashing,
And leaping and sweeping.
And raving and laving,
And foaming and roaming !
We know how the waters come down 1 Hasn’t WADE
Assured us the rotter
Who said that the Cotter
Was dry was mistaken ?
Our faith is unshaken,
Of course WADE is right!
And so, whilst we’re dreaming,
We hear waters streaming,
And rushing and gushing along through the night—
A liquid and beautiful song of delight
Which proves Mr. WADE in his statement was right.
Do you know how the waters come down to Yassberra ?
They trickle and ooze,
They crawl round the stones
And firmly refuse
To cover the bones
That lie there. They sneak,
They slither, they glide ;
A drought-stricken creek,
A smelly ebb-tide. '
Or a kitchen leak
Are all things of pride
To the streak of damp in that countryside,
Where eleven inches of rain is all
That a careful God will allow to fall!
It’s Hay, Hell, Yassberra and Booligal
For the bone-dry record on Hell’s red wall 1
And I’m game to bet you a dozen sins
That, when Earth is ended, in red-hot haste
The Devil will give it “ Yassberra wins 1 ”
And shift all his devils to Wade’s parched waste.
n. s. w.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


O' l-
i\ I I
' - FOR
laO
hfd
tigt -i
...
PefGaflonThan An.v.QihJoH
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
hfdh
fdh
All Commercial, 1
General Educa-
tional & Technical
Subjects, and WE COACH BY
POST for ALL EXAMINATIONS.
Successful & satisfied students
all over the Commonwealth
are our best advertisements.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.
“ Home Study,”
post free.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
TF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
1 can’t keep current with Australian Art.
letters and music; and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(12s.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
J. A. Leach, of Melbourne Training
College, lecturing before the school teachers of
Adelaide, told them
that the sparrow is
the only bird in
Australia that needs
destroying. Th e
wild duck, as a snail
eater, should be
protected all the
year round. The
magpie “does 51
weeks’ work for one
week’s damage,”
and the cormorant
eats yabbies which
eat fish-spawn. The
starling is bad for
the fruitgrower, but
good for the grazier.
“The balance of
Nature is a very
delicate thing,”
said Leacli ; “if I
had my way, I
would not allow
any bird to be in-
troduced into our
country.” As an
example of the
swinging of the
balance, he traced
the connection be-
tween fox-hunting
and clover seeds.
“The more fox-
hunting, the fewer
foxes; the fewer
foxes, the more
cats; the more
cats, the fewer
mice; the fewer
mice, the more
bumble-bees; the
more bumble-bees, the fewer clover-seeds.”
But that sort of thing is dead easy. Leach
advocates the destruction of sparrows. The
fewer sparrows, the more seed-fruit. The more
seed-fruit, the more appendicitis. Therefore,
Leach and appendicitis are connected. In fact, if
you’ve got paper and ink enough you can prove
that everything is connected with everything
else.
WILLING TO OBLIGE.
MAGISTRATE (to drunk): “This is the forty -
second time you’ve been here, my man.”
DRUNK: “ Well, if you don’t like it, boss, I’ll
leave straight away now! ”
PROPERTY.
AUSTRALIAN (to immigrant): “ Here , don’t stand lookin’ at the darn’
thing! Kill it!”
IMMIGRANT: “Kill it? ’Ow do we know ’oo it borlongs to.”
“ Nerrin ” : I hasten to enter some queer
Victorian names. Most of them are to be found
in the Western District: Yanac-a-Yanac, Won-
Wron, Pannobamawm, Dunbulbalane, Durdid-
warrah, Gonnewirricoo, Puckapunyal, Willina-
brina, Tabberabbera, Whorouly, Uptipotpon,
Towaninnie, and Darraweit Guim.
* * tc
“ Glenbrien ” : lie Will-I-go-bung, and the
man who doubts whether there is such a station in
N.S.W. Why, it not only exists, but is famous.
For it was at Will-I-go-bung that the original
boxing kangaroo, “ Old Jack,” was caught by a
drover named McTntosh from Benalla (Vic.).
He took the kangaroo to England after touring
Australia. On the door of “ Jack’s ” travelling
box was printed “J. Willie Gobung,” Benalla. I
think that “ Jack” died at the Crystal Palace,
England, where he was showing, but that’s mere
hearsay—l haven’t seen the death certificate.
Front “ Mallarapoonie,” in the Far North,
adjacent to the Edge and close to the Back of the
Hot Wind :
Re that par (B. 19/8/’O9) concerning the recently
discovered marked trees on the eastern bank of theßynoe
River, alleged to have been branded by the Burke
and Wills expedition. I have been on and around the
Bynoe, but never heardbf or saw any substances, trees or
otherwise, marked by that party of alleged explorers,
though I adririt the possibility of their existence. There
's a sandhill in the Magoura bullock paddock known as
Burke's Camp, though the incident of Burke’s encamp-
ment there is purely suppositional. Burke’s party wasn’t
much given to the habit of marking trees on the Bynoe or
elsewhere. In this respect its laxity was deplorable.
The best explanation of the reason why It. O’H. Burke
omitted, in 99 cases out of 100, to mark a, tree at any of
his camps, or in conspicuous localities along his route, is
that he was too tired. The tiredness of R. O’H. Burke
was a lamentable, not to say painful, thing. The writer
has crossed and re-crossed, followed, examined and
inquired about the route of the Burke and Wills expedi-
tion from the Cooper to the Gulf and back with aston-
ishingly small results. That famous expedition seems to
have passed to and fro through Western Queensland in
ghostly style, much after the manner of a thin spook
wandering in a deserted lane.
Also, though knowing Western Queensland as well'as
The Buxlktin knows George-street, Sydney, 1 have
always-found much difficulty in reconciling Burke’s jour-
nal with local geography. The number of days repre-
sented in Burke’s diary by blank spaces is simply
appalling, and further bear out the theory of Burke’s
awful weariness. The Lower Diamentina, Lower Georg- .
ina, King, Burke, Maldon, Cloncurry and Flinders Rivers
have been searched time and again for evidences of the pass-
ing of the. Burke and Wills caravan, but without success so
far as this writer is aware. An astonishing thing, too, is
that Burke seems always to have side-stepped places where
large, conspicuous trees invited branding, and appears
to have determinedly avoided the courses of creeks or
rivers. Either the main Diamentina or Georgina would
have carried him for hundreds of miles on his desired
course, had he followed it, and either would have delivered
him out on the watersheds of the Flinders or Gregory
well advanced on the highroad to the sea. But Burke
seems to have been too tired to follow watercourses, and,
at the end, too weary even to endeavor to obtain food in
a country abounding in game, edible plants and natives.
Burke’s exhausted feeling finally led to the undoing of
himself and his companions, and out of his gigantic limp-
ness some people have raised a hero. Well, anyone who
wants to make a hero of Burke may do so ; the bushmen
of western Queensland don’t want any of him.
The best corroborators of Burke’s journal that I have
met are some of the elder generation of natives in that
country. It has been proved beyond doubt that some of
the more aged blacks were eye-witnesses of the passing
of Burke’s plant to and from the Gulf. Not that the ex-
pedition ever saw them —they took good care of that!
Anyhow, it is doubtful, had Burke fallen in with natives,
whether his gorgeous and supreme dignity would have
permitted him to parley with them. Rather he would
have used tones calculated to hoosh such trash out of his
way.
The camels of that expedition left lasting impressions
on the minds of the then wild men as they viewed the
beasts from afar. “ Think it plurry big emu,” they ex-
plained in later life. And when camels came to Warenda
station, many years later, the blacks recognised them as
old acquaintances. “ Bin seeum be-fore,” they said.
The worst will have been said of Robert O’Hara Burke
when he is described as an arrogant, pig-headed, ignorant
policeman. A more unsuitable person for the job of
conducting an expedition to the interior could scarcely
have been dug up in Australia. As an explorer his
incapacity was monumental. Of interest in the country
he had started to explore he had none whatever. In
fact, the incapacity of Burke may be considered generally
as something of a record in Australia, though no doubt
many would prefer to give pride of place to the astound-
ing incapacity of Coe Jook.
THE RIVER’S UP AT BOURKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Darling at Bourke is 16ft. above summer level, and
still rising. —News item from Outback.
The squatters down its winding course
Will watch the rising flood,
And Optimism’s tingling force
Is surging through their blood.
For should the stream its volume lack
To bear the golden bales,
The wool that counts for all Outback
Will miss the London sales !
The woodmen and the watermen,
And all the old brigade,
Will seek the Trickle once again—
The Trickle that is Trade !
The lonely swagmen in the bends
The whalers’ tracks will shirk,
And claim the skippers as their friends,
For Bourke is always—Bourke 1
The message of a thousand miles
Is in that yellow mud,
Symbolical of Nature’s smiles
(The Fortune of the Flood !).
The crazy little river craft
Will waken from their sleep,
And, like Titanic imps of Graft,
Go threshing down the deep !
since more the eagle, high above
Against the vault of blue,
Will see the sailor-men make love
To Jenny Jamberoo 1
And Hebe of the River’s Arms
(Who long - since smiled for me)
Will show once more her olden charms—
Red lips and lingerie !
For Jack he is a sailor, though
The heaving deep he sails
Is where the Northern Waters flow
Through Sunset New South Wales 1
The same old voices call to him,
The same old passions leap
As where the flattened fishes swim
A hundred fathoms deep !
For I have waited for the Rise
And idled in the bars
Of Bourke—and heard the bo’sun's lies
Beneath the Desert Stars !
And I have waited for the wire
From sleepy Walgett town :
“ The Barwon and the Mclntyre
In flood are coming down.”
The coach goes rocking through the dust—
Its old romance is dead
(Its driver never paints “ a bust ”
A thousand miles ahead 1);
For all the waters of the North
Shall take the cargoes South,
And, like lorn lovers, hasten forth
To kiss the Harbor’s mouth 1
I wish that I could tread the decks
And hear the captain swear
At eerie hypothetic wrecks,
That ancient mariner!
I feel inclined to leave my den
And sail in quest of Work—
For all the sirens call me when
The River’s Up at Bourke !
N.S.W.
GILEOONEY.
ANSWERS
TC
CORRESPONDENCE
Nn notice (exceut of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or haiuled in ; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.F. (Auckland): (1) The fact that these
managers have done well in Maoriland for the past 25
years doesn’t prove that they are doing well now ; (2)
Your assurance that a certain show “ did well in Wel-
lington considering,” etc., doesn’t prove that the manage-
ment is making a profit all round ; (3) your statement
that we should “ask Mr. ” about the matter is all
right. Mr. is just the person that we did ask. In
fact, he was the first person we asked Foo-the-Noo :
You have the hide cf an elephant to send along that old’
old jest re Casey and the pot-hole and the chimney as
something new. It has been related on every mining
field from Gippsland fo Cape York, and then round to
Tanami and Phillips River Scalper: No use for
long accounts of focal “fbtes.” No use for short
ones either....A. Burns: Under the Small Debts
Recovery Act, the decision of a magistrate, in
such a case as you mention, is final
K.A.W. : Ordinary prose cut in varying lengths
J.C.B. : Hopelessly out of date, besides having other
defects ...J. Train: Drover Dick’s obituary poem buried
with him—to keep off dingoes ...E.J.T.H. : Unmoved by
philanderings of hard-faced politician with his biffed-out
opponent’s girl... T. Gin : One traveller returns—again ?
May use verse ...P. : “Principal Boy” bumpeth too
grievously Yates Beeby : Pumped-up melancholy.
Poetry decently buried long ag0.... The Idiot: Strained
funniinent C.vnicus: Boiled remains of antiquated
humor... Leo Mayer: “To cut a long story short” is
generally the preface to a dreary, weary rigmarole of a
deadly dull yarn. Your case is no exception Waddy :
You start out to prove that bush life is maligned, and
then you advance alleged proofs that it isn’t F. F.
Godfrey : Too much scenery and general padding....
M. 8.: Rhyming of “Just a Fancy” eccentric K.J.:
Same old honkhonk O.A.G. : Defective sort of cynic...
M.R. : “The Parting” is Marie Corelli-and-water and
blissful ignorance of what you’re writing about Hugh
S.: Aboriginally stretched into a story A.R.H.:
Neat; but reversolets that are reversolets and nothing
much else are off... .L.M.P. : Please don’t “send para-
graph under separate cover.” What you’ve got to send,
send under the same cover. It saves your covers and our
cusses.... Huckster: Eloquent but unsavory item
E. W. H. : Suggestion submitted to “ Hop,” and then cast
into outer devilment Eggshells : Nobody pays any
attention to what that Judge says off the bench, and the
High Court generally upsets what he says on it. Why
sing about him? J. G. Smyth : Metres arbitrarily varie-
gated... Bert Long: Poor jingle sadly oppressed with
vile puns... C. Gull: Unmelodious yawp W.G.8.:
“The Rover” conventional sentimentality in common-
place verse... .Dura : Idea good, if not new;
but the Muse limps with very uneven feet...
Meter: Let’s have a look at the agreements Yebos:
Too small potatoes... Chug: Write Angus and Robert-
son, Castlereagh-street, Sydney W. F. Key:
“Bacchus” humor of a-mournfully 'flat-footed variety
—sort of funeral cake-walk, executed by one-legged old
maids and octogenarian bucks M. Meyrick : Weary,
stale and unprofitable... Lone Star : Too much hysterics
about your ice-cold maiden who falls madly in love with
a Johnnie that kisses her. Also, “ The Victor,” with its
wooden conversation, is a throw-back to the Rhoda
Broughton heroine who worshipped the brute variety
of man. “Grey Ashes,” half love mystery, half plain
conundrum. May use verses..... .HAL : Tne late Miss
Sutherland deserves something better than an obituary
poem which professes to rhyme “speaking” with
“ weeping.”.... H.B.K. : Melodramatic sentimentality.
....F. Oorkling: Prosaic enough to be true E. B.
Manfred : Wouldn’t swear to having seen the verses, or
not having seen them, before. ...G. Anderson : Verses in
praise of Henry Lawson kept for that gentleman’s
private consumption V. Sheldrick : “Fragment”
further broken up . G. Parker: Harmless unnecessary
jingles ...G. H. Wilson: Unconvincing H.C.; “The
Chief Mourner,” conventional upsetting of the Prodigal
Son... .E. O’Loughlin : Fleshless skeleton of invertebrate
yarn.. ..Durindi : Tip-stories like that are as common as
dirt about Melbourne Cup time. , . .B. Goodson : News
item of Jun - 26 somewhat belated. Comment also all
behind... .Elingamarra : Certainly hot brilliant; dull,
rather....A.H.H. : Send your love to her direct, not
through “ Stars at Sea.”... .Tahuna : Color scheme poem
not impressive ; but perhaps you can do better The
Native: Little gamble doesn’t thrill W. F. Key:
Labored funniment about yEsop regarded with pained
surprise.... Windy Jim: You may safely leave Dacey’s
constituency to blow’ him out for his State Frights kow-
towing to Wade... .No Name : Glad to return hash-house-
boiler romance entitled “ At the Dawn of Day” if you
had forwarded name and address as well as stamp
Okow’i : Not hustling to preach morals to parents
G. Armour : “ Dad” stands a chance, but the other thing
wants repairs badly—new lock, stock and barrel, to start
with. . .T.A.G. : Music as of a steam-roller competition,
not of breakers tumbling on the sands... .0. Ayliffe :Oh !
F.E.L. : Very ordinary drunk F. S. Anthony: Bessie’s
jilting of that priggish ass of a hero of yours has our
heartiest approval.... S. Griffiths: With pleasure. Its
nameisMud.. ..E.G. Boreham : A rose that “meets fouler
growths with a gay, lilting song,” is an eccentric vege-
table that wants classification P. S. Wilson: That
joke was translated into all known languages what time
building operations were suspended at Babel. Moreover,
the accompanying sketch was patented by Nimrod, the
mighty curio-hunter, as a hieroglyphic embellishment for
his grandfather’s tombstone.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
P.J.S. : Picture of local orator declaiming about potato
blight leaves us unmoved F.G. (South Aus.): That
wretched old joke about the easy times of the Govern-
ment servant has been dead for 25 years J.J.C. : They
don’t suit.... Jaykay : A most hopeless and deadly collec-
tion A. Smith : Joke re vermin scoffed off the premises.
W.P.P. : Drawing only fair; idea p00r....H. E.
Mullens : Photo, too dim and pale for reproduction.
Many thanks all the same.
STOUT LADIES LOSE WEIGHT.
A Classic Recipe.
There has been much talk lately about a new
preparation for the cure of obstinate fatness—a
simple, harmless mixture that any of our readers
can make up at home, after procuring the ingre-
dients at any chemist’s. This is it: —One half-
ounce of Marmola (in a sealed packet), one ounce
of fluid extract of Glycyrrhiza 8.P., one ounce
of pure Glycerine 8.P., and Peppermint Water to
make six ounces in all. This wonderfully suc-
cessful recipe has become classic. The dose is
two teaspoonfuls, after each meal and at bedtime.
Stout men and women are by no means required
to half starve themselves when they go in for
this simple treatment. Let them rather increase
their strength and fortify the nervous system by a
little indulgence in wholesome and enjoyable
dishes. Fatiguing physical exercises are likewise
quite unnecessary. Nourishment and repose are
as essential to health and beauty as is the elimi-
nation of the excess of fat, which, in the form of
internal deposits, is really dangerous and always
injurious to health.*


COMMERCE AT THE FEDERAL PORT OF JERVIS BAY.
The olatest news is that the Federal territory at Jervis Bay is only to extend to high water mark, so the alleged Federal port won't be able to take in even
a ketch in the ordlanry fashion. Perhaps Commerce may be dragged up to it like this.


AT'
mt
©r
T//e G HAhIPAGHt OF TABLE
Light, Crisp and Invigorating. French Natural Sparkling Table Water.
GAELIC
WHISKY
BD3pn[nr , r ~,p, „
(The Old Smugglar Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
OUR TEETH
Has no one been struck by the fact
that, in spite of the regular daily clean-
sing with tooth soaps and pastes, the
teeth, and particularly the back teeth,
frequently become decayed and hol’ow ?
Is not that a convincing proof that
tooth-soaps and
tooth-pastes are en-
tirelyinadequate for
the purpose ? Our
teeth are nut so oblig-
ing as to decay only
in places where we
can conveniently reach
them with the tooth-
brush. On the
contrary, it is just
in those localities
which are difficult of
access, such as the
backs of the molar teeth, the interstices
between the teeth, hollows and cracks,
that the decay and destruction of the
teeth appear most frequently, and are
most likely to occur. In consequence,
if anyone wishes to preserve his teeth
intact—that is to say, to keep
them healthy—this can be
effected in one way only: by
daily cleansing and rinsing
the mouth and teeth with
the antiseptic dentifrice
Odol. During the process
of rinsing this preparation
penetrates every wh ere, reach ing
alike the hollows in the.
teeth, the interstices between
them, and the backs of
the molars. Odol destroys
the microbes and arrests
all bacterial and fermentation processes
which attack the teeth. It follows that
everyone who uses Odol regularly every
day takes the greatest care of his teeth
and mouth that scientific discovery has
up to the present time made possible.
The records of Britain’s old nobility
“Lot arts and commerce, laws and learning die,
but leave us still our old nobility’’—serve to
mark the march of civilisation. For instance,
the first Baron de Clifford was killed at Bannock-
burn, and the late Baron died from the effects of
stopping his motor-car too suddenly. The vehicle
turned over and the lamp bracket hit his lordship
a fatal blow on the place where his coronet used
to go. Which was a baronial ending up-to-date.
A de Clifford can’t nowadays meet a violent death
in chain mail and a vizor, but he can put on a
motoring coat and a pair of goggles and get there
just the same.
Burnley Hill, one of the last of the pure-
merino squatters of Queensland, died the other
day at Bellevue, his place in the Lsk district.
Burnley was a Yorkshireinan—pigheaded or
pertinacious, according to whether he was on vour
side or the other fellow’s. Mcllwraith thought
him pigheaded and worse, and they fought like
tigers over Mac’s transcontinental railway-
scheme. Over that affair Hill stumped the
country from Thargomindah to Thursday Island
and poured gallons of bitterness on the ruling
gamr of the day—which was something to his
credit. He owned numerous squattagesat various
times between Cloncurry and the setting sun. and
knew Far-West Queensland al most as well as John
Madden knows the Melbourne Block.
SOSH'S RIVAL.
A deputation of Richmond councillors and others, who
objected to having: the Lang-Squires match in Richmond,
told Premier Murray that the match would depreciate
the value of property. —News Item.
The new Ropey, destroyer of propputy and
breaker-up of the ’ome.
“ Bathurstian ” rambles on :
Conroy, the fanatical Foreign-wader whom Hall
defeated for Werriwa at last Federal elections, is a candi-
date for the Anti Sosh nomination in Macquarie. His
most serious rival is, in all likelihood, Withington, who
beat Beebv for the State constituency of Bla.vney when
Crick retired. Withington won this seat in curious
fashion. Crick was annoyed at the State Labor party s
treatment of him, and made up his mind to yet Beebv
licked as a demonstration of the danger of crossing one of
his calibre. He communicated with a faithful friend and
skilled underground engineer in Bathurst. The latter,
although himself a member of the local Labor league, at
once boarded, a buji'U’y and started driving round
the constituency. Within a week, as a result of
his efforts, every Crickite was pledged to dis-
franchise him or herself in The coining struggle.
Despite the presence in the constituency of J. C. Watson,
Holman,- Griffith, and a heap more prominent Laborites
who worked like mad for the Cause, Beeby went down.
The Crickites—all of whom were Laborites—hadn’t voted
against Beeby ; they simply hadn’t voted at all, and
there were some of the most amazing polls on record.
This was a by-election and when the general struggle
came on a few months later and Crick removed his em-
bargo, Beeby sailed in (for Blayney) with ease and has
stayed there ever since.
EX-DEFENCE MIN ISTER LIEUTENANT.
COLONEL McCAY, of the Inteiligaure Corps.
Mr. Fedor lvelling, one of two survivors
of the first Parliament of Maoriland, died recently
at Nelson, aged 1)0 years. The other survivor,
John Logan Campbell, lives in Auckland, and is
just eight milestones off his century.
Morris Asher, who joined the final Upper
House last week, at tlie age of I)2,was a tough
survivor of the third N.S.W. Parliament under
Responsible Government. He was returned for
the Plume on June 28, 1859, and disappeared from
the House on the dissolution on Nov. 10, 1800,
when the Forster Ministry was defeated and the
country put its confidence in young “Jock”
Robertson. The departed patriarch was a con-
temporary of W. M. Manning, Charles Cowper,
J. B. Darvall, Terence Aubrey Murray, Henry
Parkes, James Martin, Edward Wise, W. B.
Dailey and Daniel Henry Deniehy. He was the
last of the very early Parliamentarians, and far
and away the wiriest.
Concerning the lately-buried Lombroso: —
The world lias got into the way of calling Gesure Lom-
broso a criminologist ; but he was really an original
investigator in medicine, physiology and psychology.
Thirty years ago he was Professor of Psychiatry at the
University of Pavia, where lie set to work to investigate
pellagra, which makes havoc among the peasants of
Lombardy. He found that it was the result of living on
bad maize, which the landowners gave them in order to
save the good for the market. Lombroso began an agita-
tion against this cheerful practice, and made it so hot for
the landlords that, in defence of themselves and their
swindle, they made Pavia too sultry to hold him. He got
another professorship at Turin, where Vie stuck to his
proper business of psychiatry and mental science, and
collected an enormous mass of anthropological data. He
has done much towards killing the worship of the
“Great Man” by proving that the greatness of excep-
tional persons is accompanied by great moral defects —
that almost all are bad and most of them criminal.
Loinbroso’s political evolution is perhaps the most
instructive thing about his career. He began life as a
Conservative and Monarchist, and developed ] ill be
became, long before his death, practically a Socialist; for
he had proved that the wise and benevolent despot of his
early dreams is an almost impossible person, wherefore it
is safer to trust to the voice of the people than to the
chance of getting an inspired madman.
“Pick” : Olcl-age pensioner and fos, sicker
Jim McKinnon worked out his final claim re-
cently on the once busy site of the Montreal
(N.S.W.) diggings, having died of starvation in
an, abandoned shaft down which he had acci-
dentally fallen. He was the last of three old
mates who stuck to the field since the long
ago, when the Bermagui mystery made the spot
more famous than its gold-yield ever did. It was
a gruesome end, and the old man’s feet were a
shuddery sight through his efforts to climb out.
“ Calare Elector” writes :
Syd Smith, the reject or cull of Macquarie, is out for
Calare. It is an ill-judged move on his part, and if the
party wire-pullers give him the nomination they are even
stupider than might be expected. Syd could hardly
have picked a constituency less suited to him had he
tried. Lahorite Brown, whom he will find opposed to
him, is a rabid Freetrader, a street preacher and an
inveterate embracer of electors’ infants. Now those are
the very three qualities on which Syd Smith relied for
success in Macquarie. A saintly old party was and is
Sydney : a chronic wearer of the lonsr frock-coat and dusty
bowler hat which proclaim the man free from guile and ex-
pert in the Word. It wassaidof him, when he represented
Macquarie in the Federal Parliament, that there was not
a solitary farmhouse in the entire electorate that he hadn t
tea’d and slept in at one time or another. And where
he tea’d or slept he prayed lornr and impressively. But
Brown does these things as well as or better than Smith.
Brown will get a solid laborite vote, regardless of his re-
ligious and child-embracing proclivities ; in addition he
will get the support of militant “ right-thiiilters,” who
are mostly anti-Socialists ; and against his almost blatant
holiness the stock yarns about the marriage-tie-bursting
ways of the Fisher'party will be of no avail. Fiscalism
won’t influence the struggle either way. What voting
support is going to be left for Syd Smith is, in the cir-
cumstances, extremely hard to discern.
Bishop Gibney, the R.C. Bishop of Perth
(W.A.), is to shortly retire from active work on
account of growing’ infirmities, and will be su -
ceeded by Bishop Dwyer, of Maitland (5N.&. •
While yet a priest, collecting for his cathedral
building in Victoria, Dr. Gibney happened to >e
at Glenrowan when the Kelly gang was exteirui-
nated, and it was he who pushed up to the bom-
barded pub in the thought that his priestly ser-
vices might be needed by some dying man insi e.
He stood that excitement easily enough, but tne
worry of trying to prop up the recently-deceased
Pertii Morning Herald, in which he held the
biggest share, was a more serious matter.
“Sr.” writes of the moral member for
Gippsland North, the man who wants to make
everybody “ marry the girl,” even if he has a wire
already”:—
I thought that McLachlan would come along with some
original legislation. He lives the Simple Life up in the
Gippsland hush amongst the guileless gum-trees nr
removed from the sinful cities. 1 saw him one Jf, »
down Raymond-street, Sale, dressed in fl » n, ‘ el *
and heavy blucher hoots, and lie looked about th -
rural person possible to imagine. It is alleged th.
18 months ago he advertised for a wife, and specified tha ■
she must be prettv and take an interest m politic-,
don’t know; but I think it is quite possible. Lor a
new member, and a nervous and bashful one t 1 *
Mac has had a good deal to say and some terrihc ideas t
advance. Gippsland folk like him because he bustles for
the requirements of the district and barracks f°i tne
hush worker ; but his wild efforts at social purification
are liable to ruin his popularity. A person who sea .
legislative dynamite with such a free hand as he does
cannot expect to be hailed with delight for long. - •
would only turn his superfluous energy on to the jo 1
unlocking’ the lands instead c-f unlocking the gads, m-
constituents and Victorians generally would be deev .
grateful.
8. Aus. has just fixed up a little matter
that Ims wanted attending to for 05 years. John
Charles Darke, who was in Sydney with King in
183(5, and helped to lay out Melbourne m the next-
year, was speared by the blacks in 1844, whi e
leading an exploring party about 150 miles mhim
from Port Lincoln (S. A.). A hill near by is called
Darke’s Peak ; but nobody knew for certain wheie
the grave was, though some of the oldest mini >i-
tants can remember the natives showing it to
them. The Surveyor-General has now gone into
the matter, followed up wheelmarks which seem
to be actually those made by Darke’s bullock-dray
(55 years ago, located a spot, and done just enough
prospecting to make sure of being right. And the
State Government is going to follow that up by
placing a permanent memorial there.
The Cooper Estate has reached the
N. S. Wales Probate Court once more, tins time
under guise of the will of Daniel Cooper, baronet
No. 2, whose wealth has been computed for
bate purposes at £448,392. of which £3B-..8.14
represent real property and £03,288 debts due to the
estate. The baronet died at Warren lowers,
Newmarket, England, on June 13. Ihe real
property ” exists in Woollmlifm, Double Buy. .Hose
Bay, Edgecliffe, Strathfield, Pitt Town, Water-
loo, Old South Head Road, Wvnyard Square,
George-street, Sussex-street and Pitt-street, oyd-
ney. The first baronet, also Dan Copper, died
on June 5, 1902, the net value of his Australian
estate being set down at £558,900.
JEN KIN COLES, FOR MANY YEARS
SPEAKER OF S.A. ASSEMBLY.
The Sacramento Society of Californian
Pioneers —the men of 1849 —has only seven mem-
bers left. There were eight, but recently the
other one died, and the remaining seven acted as
pall-bearers at the funeral. Living in retirement
at Neutral Bay, Sydney, but to be seen daily
about the Exchange, is an old Californian rorty-
niner—Captain Murray. He used to own the
stern-wheel'steamer General Gordian, which ■ dtd*
duty on the Hawkesbury-for many years, till it
was converted into a house-boat, and is now hung
up in that disguise in Lavender Bay.
JONES, M.P.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At present the Fusion Government has not the statu-
tory majority—viz., 38 votes for every clause—required
for the passage of the Bill, as it stands though the
acquiescing Ministerialists say that if the Ministry cracks
the whip, 40 or 41 votes can be safely counted upon.
Melbourne Age.
It was thus in the beginning : With a sporting chance of
winning,
Jones contested an election years ago.
He was young, enthusiastic, and maintained that measures
drastic
Were imperative to save the land from Woe.
For the laudable ambition of this budding politician.
Who with zeal to serve his bleeding country burned,
Was to make a reputation as a saviour of the nation,
And a clean and honest statesman —if returned.
The electors took a fancy to the youngster, and the
chance he
Had of winning was improved where’er he went.
His high motives were respected, and, in short, he was
elected ;
And an Honest Man went into Parliament.
Went in to strive for glory where there held a system
hoary,
Founded on the good old English party plan.
Wherefore Jones, half understanding things, submitted
to the branding,
And became, perforce, a solid parly man.
But when he heard a mention of the Whip—
Party Whip,
He gave answer, as he curled a scornful lip,
And his honest zeal upbore him,
That his course was plain before him,
Just the clean, straight course of earnest statesmanship.
For young Jones held notions utterly absurd ;
And the old campaigners sniggered when they heard
That young patriot unfolding
llis stern views, and Truth upholding.
But he meant it, when he said it, ev’ry word.
For a time, in all debating, Jones was famed for baldly
stating
Plain, blunt truths and keen uncomfortable facts ;
Till his colleagues grew uneasy, for, in fashion bland and
breezy,
He proposed to back his burning words with acts.
And they told him, with much cunning, that he might be
in the running
For the leadership if he’d consent to hedge.
He was bold, ambitious, clever, but advance, they said,
he’d never
While he clung to childish notions of his pledge.
Brave young Jones at first was scornful; but, ere long,
with visage mournful,
He sat dowu to think on what he stood to lose.
And his party friends, with caution, hinted honors were
his portion
If he’d but consent to water down his views.
And they e’en suggested slyly that, although they valued
highly
His great services, defiance was not meet.
Till, his splendid dream departing, Jones saw plainly
that a parting
With his party meant a parting with his seat.
It was then he heard the cracking of the Whip—
Party Whip!
And he found the System had him in its grip.
On the one hand was devotion
To his duty, with promotion
On the other, and the hope of leadership.
For he’d come unto the parting of the ways,
And he hearkened to the voice of fulsome praise—
To the promise of preferment,
And —there happened the interment
Of the self-respecting Jones of other days.
Step by step he climbed the ladder ; now a wiser if a
sadder
And a meaner politician, till he led,
And his party, though erratic, was lukewarmly demo-
cratic ;
Thus he strove to soothe his conscience on this head.
But there came a day of clamor when his colleagues vowed
the glamor
Of his visions was all bunkum and a myth ;
For these champions of the nation had perceived their
sole salvation
Lay in fusing with the Tory leader, Smith.
Jones at first held out, refusing all suggestions of his
fusing
With this person he had hitherto abused.
But he marked his sullen backing, and he heard the whip
a-cracking,
Then he abjectly surrendered all, and—“fused” . . .
Jones is now a semi-leader. O, consider, gentle reader ;
Think, how many politicians can you name
Who, though starting straight and cleanly, have sur-
rendered weakly, meanly,
When their party bid them fuse and “play the game”?
How they shudder at the cracking of the Whip—
Tory whip.
How they tremble lest the slightest fault or slip
Should offend their august master,
And upon them bring disaster,
And deprive them of their cherished membership.
’Twas to save their bleeding country in tiny went,
And to bleed it save themselves in Parliament;
Ev’ry worthy cause neglecting,
Their own worthless skins protecting,
And a tig for all the “ views ” they “ represent.”
O, the “ freedom ” of the Fusion Party man !
Noble man !
Abject creature of the grim old Tory clan,
Waiting, watching, shuffling, veering,
Scheming, plotting, engineering
Sorry product of the “ Good old Party Plan.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The Finest Trout Waters in the World.
Sir Kenneth Anderson, a London shipping magnate,
and one of the keenest fishermen, told Sir Joseph
Carruthers last year in London that the Upper Snowy in
New South Wales was incomparably the finest trout
stream he find ever fished. Sir Kenneth was of opinion
that if British sportsmen knew of these waters that
tumble out of the snow-clad gorges of the Kosciusko up-
lands, they would come to Australia each fishing season
in large numbers. The Director of the Tourist Bureau,
who was in London with Sir Joseph Carruthers, promptly
took steps to inform the devotees of fishing in Great
Britain of the excellence of our trout waters, and the
coining season, in consequence, promises to be marked
by an influx of enthusiastic sportsmen from the other
side of the world. Sir Joseph Carruthers. speaking to
the New South Wales Anglers’ Casting Club over the
festive board on Wednesday, was able to congratulate
New South Wales on possessing in Dr. Herbert Maitland
the champion fly caster of the world, and he opened the
eyes of the company when he told them that the waters /
of the Snowy, which the paternal New South Wales
Government presents free gratis to the anglers, would,
in the Northern Hemisphere, net no less than £25,000
per annum in fishing fees. The illustrations on this £
page show some idyllic scenes on the banks of the /sF
famous Kosciusko streams, and also of some of
fishing spots near the Hotel Kosciusko and The Creel. j
The Creel is a famous fishing box, and lies within
short distance of the confluence of the Thredbo and
Snowy Rivers, two well stocked streams which are joined
a few miles further down by the Eucumbene, another
fine trouting locality. The trout waters of the uplands,
which Sir Kenneth Anderson considers the best he
knows, are within a few miles of the Hotel Kosciusko.
The speedy daily motor service from the rail head at
Cooma, arranged by the Government Tourist Bureau, j
Challis House, Sydney, brings all these places within 16
hours of Sydney. A good road easily negotiable
motors and coaches, leads to the summit of I\os-
ciusko, and visitors should not fail to make this
trip. The views from the summit are grand, JjKKk
embracing some of the wildest and most W
impressive scenery in the Continent. M
1. THE HOTEL KOSCIUSKO, 6000ft. up Kosciusko’s Heights.
2. Trouting in the Snowy, near the Hotel. 3. The Perisher Range from Bett’s Camp, at 6500ft. 4. Piper’s Gap, nearing Kosciusko’s summit.
5. Near the Creel at Thredbo—a famous trout stream. 6. A good morning’s catch.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
"NATIONAL " ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
flythur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent stock of Large Boilers for
all Mining Purposes, for working pressures of
1201 b. and 1501 b. per square inch, by Ruston
Proctor, Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
BELTING.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
CAMEL HAIR”
BELTING
"“'■lUito*' *
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Mining-purposes. Sole Agents,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT & BENDIGO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Wellington Municipal Tramways(M.L.):
Reserves
(apart
from
Sinking Written Sinking
Alar., Profit Interest. Fund. off. Fund).
1906.. £23,960 £12,093 £3064 £7,436 £1362
1907.. 34,519 15,778 4072 12,173 3858
1905.. 42,370 22,186 4858 13,859 5325
1909.. 44,978 20,652 5328 14,744 9579
The year’s history was, in brief, as follows :
Revenue from traffic £129,033
~ sale of current .. .. 7,247
~ advertising, etc. .. 156
~ sinking fund interest .. 395
£136,531
Less — Working expenses .. £91,673
Stolen 180
91,853
Profit as above £44,978
The profit was cut up as follows : Interest, £20,652 ; sink-
ing fund, £5328 ; written off, £14,744 ; to reserves, £4254.
The sinking fund, the annual contribution to which is
1 per cent, (with, of course, the accumulating interest),
now amounts to £17,322. The reserves (£9579) are not as
genuine as they might be, for the balance-sheet still con-
tains some paper items on the assets side. Originally the
undertaking started off with a deficit of £29,508, repre-
senting various preliminary expenses (losses on loan flota-
tions, etc.). Subsequently some patent rights were
bought; and, though about £l5OO a year is being written
off these items, the total “ paper ” still left in the balance-
sheet—that is to say, debt, etc., which is not represented
by tangible assets—amounts to £28,775. These itemsare
being got rid of very slowly ; and until the reserves out-
weigh them, the undertaking won't have any genuine
reserves at all, apart from the depreciation and renewals
reserve.
The total amount shown above as written off to
date is £48,212. Of that amount £43,496 is in a depre-
ciation and renewals fund ; the balance has been written
off the paper items mentioned above. The amount
written off the capital cost of the tramway properties,
including permanent way, electrical equipment, cars,
power station plant, etc., is 2J per cent, per
annum. The total put into this part of the under-
taking is £467,288 ; and 2J p.c. on that means £12,850.
On the £25,464 in the small power-supply undertaking
amounts varying from 1 to 10 percent, are written off.
The depreciation and renewal fund is not treated as the
sinking fund is, and invested apart from the business, nor
is it credited with any interest earnings. This is quite
according to Cocker; though Cocker would have some
difficulty in explaining why a fund for the purchase of
new machinery when the old wears out should be treated
differently from a fund for the repayment of Cohen
when the lOU wears out. Whether 2J per cent,
is enough all round is doubtful, especially as the
fund doesn’t grow at compound interest. Over
and above that allowance the profits are not at all im-
posing ; so that if the allowance isn’t enough there isn’t
much to come and go on. Apart from the sinking fund
of 1 per cent, the surplus profits last year didn’t amount
to more than about J per cent, on the capital outlay.
Under those circumstances it seems that the limit of
concessions has been for the present reached on the
lines, and that the public is getting all that the
undertaking' can afford to give for the money. The
sinking fund is invested chiefly in AI.L. municipal securi-
ties. The undertaking’s own debt (£493,423) has been
raised on loans, mostly at 4, but some at 4£, per cent. ;
and the first lot of £49,6i?5 will fall due in 1914. As this
lot carries 4£ per cent., the concern, if it goes carefully,
ought after 1914 to make a substantial saving in interest.
National Bank of Australasia (Melbourne) :
Dividends
Net Ord. Pref. ’ To Re- Re-
Profits. 3J p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
Sept., 1903.. £34,874 £20,868 £7644 £6,362 £98,110
Mar., 1904.. 36,233 20,868 7644 7,721 105,831
Sept., 1904.. 36,950 20,868 7644 8,438 114,269
Mar., 1905.. 36,130 20,868 7644 7,618 121,887
4 p.c.
Sept., 1905.. 36,104 23,849 7644 4,611 126,498
Mar., 1906.. 41,144 23,849 7644 9,651 136,149
4£ p.c.
Sept., 1906.. 44,982 26,830 7644 10,508 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907.. 48,158 29,811 7644 10,703 157,360
Sept., 1907.. 49,943 29,811 7644 12,488 169,848
Mar., 1908.. 42,305 29,811 7644 4,850 174,698
Sept., 1908.. 49,017 29,811 7644 11,562 186,260
Mar., 1909.. 59,170 29,811 7644 21,715 207,975
6 p.c. 6 d.c.
Sept., 1909.. 59,390 35,773 9173 14,444 222,419
This bank did a risky thing ; but'circumstances favored
it and it came out on top. For some years it only paid
3| per cent. ; then, though it was making very poor
additions to reserves, it began to bump up its rate of divi-
dend. Banking is very largely a matter of credit. The
concern that seems to be doing well has little difficulty in
getting deposits ; and even the man who wants an ad-
vance is in most cases inclined to go to the prosperous-
looking concern. Other things being equal, the
less deposits a bank has in proportion to its own
funds the safer those deposits are ; but the average
man doesn’t apparently argue like that. He goes because
a lot of others go—what’s safe enough for them is safe
enough for him. A few years ago this bank apparently
backed that principle, and shoved along its dividend ;
and, instead of calmly arguing that the more the share-
holders took out, the less security there was left for cus-
tomers, customers evidently remarked that the bank was
improving wonderfully, and so they gave it more custom
and brought along their friends. And conditions in
the country were good, so that the bank made fine
profits out of the new rush of business. If things
had gone the other way it might have been disastrous ;
as it was, the National was able to pay the increased
dividend and add more to reserves than it had been doing
when that dividend was the very modest 3j per cent.
And now both classes of shares go up to 6 "p.c. Since
1893 the prefs. have been getting a steady 5 p.c., and they
are entitled to that for ever and ever ; but if they get 10
half-yearly divs. of 7 p.c. or more, then their preference
as to capital ceases—which is to say that, in the event of
liquidation, they would then merely join in the scramble
on equal terms with the ordinaries.
Out of last half-year’s profits £2OOO was handed
to the officers’ provident fund ; and £5OOO has also been
written off premises. Down to five years ago nothing
had been written off premises by the present bank : at
that time the item stood at £448,667 (“ cost to bank ”)
and “ other real estate ”at £316,731. Though numerous
branches have been opened lately, premises now stand at
£430,057 (“ valuation ”), and other real estate has either
been sold or written down until the item stands now at
only £52,704. The figures for these five years show some
remarkable changes. Even those for the past 12 months
are striking:—
Sept.,’oB. Sept.,’o9.
Notes in circulation ~ £258,631 £270,410 Inc. £11,779
Bills, etc 511,410 663,344 Inc. 151,934
Free deposits .. ..2,848,906 2,872,409 Inc. 23,503
Deposits at interest ..4,808,425 5,486,127 Inc. 677,702
Liquid assets .. ..2,447,433 3,493,693 Inc. 1,046,260
Advances .. ..7,208,823 7,088,423 Dec. 120,400
Premises, etc. .. .. 499,052 482,761 Dec. 16,291
Possibly, however, part of the big 1 increase in deposits
carrying interest is due to this bank holding a good bit of
the last Victorian loan. Liquid assets have been much
strengthened. For 3’ears this bank was among the weak
ones in this respect. Even now it has no more than 37
per cent, of its liabilities in liquid form ; and that propor-
tion is likely to be reduced as the Government calls for
its money. Profits calculated on the basis of capital and
reserves have lately improved as follows:
Mar., 1906.. £5 1 3 p.c. Mar., 1908.. £5 1 5 p.c.
Sept., 1906.. 5 910 „ Sept., 1908.. 517 2 „
Mar., 1907.. 517 1 ~ Mar., 1909.. 619 7 ~
Sept., 1907.. 6 0 1,, Sept., 1909.. 619 3 „
This isn’t a high rate ; still, it is a very fair rate, con-
sidering that the bank has no more than £5 ss. of the
public’s money for every £1 of its own. And as the
assets—bank premises, etc. —are written down, the rate
of return will go up, because, of course, every writing
down is in the nature of a hidden reserve, which accounts
for the very high rate of earnings shown by two or three
of the most favored banks.
• • * *
The United Insurance Co. (fire and marine),
of Sydney:—
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. off. serves. serves.
1899.. £7,302 5 p.c.-£3,411 £3,891 £88,161
1900.. 10,267 10 „ „ 6,823 3,444 91,605
1901.. 13,509 10 ~ „ 6,823 £SS6O 90,031
1902.. 23,102 10 ~ ~ 6,823 16,279 106,310
1903.. 21,686 12J ~ ~ 8,528 212 12,946 119,256
1904.. 21,376 12J„ ~ 8,528 365 12.483 131,739
1905.. 21,603 124 „ ~ 9,673 4712 7,218 138,957
1906.. 20,032 124,, ~ 10,675 9,357 148,314
1907.. 16,855 124,, ~10,675 6,180 154,494
1908.. 13,531 12*,, ~ 10,675 2,856 157,350
1909.. 11,353 12£ „ ~ 10,675 113 565 157,915
This old-established co. hasn’t had any too good a year.
It has a pretty large marine insurance connection, and
marine insurance rates, especially for deep-sea hulls and
cargoes, have lately been ridiculously low. The Waratah,
for instance, carried insurance at j per cent. Further,
this co. got rather late in the day into accident and simi-
lar business ; and that once very profitable side-line isn’t
what it was. The English experience is being repeated in
Australia. Accidents may be no more frequent than they
were ; but when an employer pays for accident insurance,
he —or some of him—puts a man off, or encourages
him to go off, for even a minor injury, on the ground that
it doesn’t pay him to hand out full wages to a man who
isn’t fully able-bodied. So claims mount up, while, on
account of fiercer competition, premiums have a habit of
coming down, and business costs more to get. One way
and another, therefore, the United’s profits are much
smaller than usual. This explains it further :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £58,499 £32,855 £19,550 56'2 p.c. 33 5 p.c.
1900.. 70,779 38,589 25,296 54'5 ~ 35-7 „
1905 .. 88,609 42,250 35,832 477 „ 40'4 „
1907.. 95,620 46,350 39,822 48’5 „ 41 '6 „
1908.. 98,493 51,012 41,942 51’8 „ 42‘5 „
1909.. 100,713 52,746 44,535 52'3 „ 44’2 „
The expense rate for the past year has been pub up a
point or so by charging in £609 spent on alterations to
the head office. The underwriting profit is, however,
very small apart from that. Setting losses and expenses
against total net premiums, all that is left is £3432 ; so
that of every £lOO received in premiums only £3 4s.
was profit. Fortunately it isn’t necessary to tie up an
insurance co.’s funds in unproductive stock, etc. ; so
interest and rent brought in £7922, and thus paid most
of the dividend. The return under this head is neverthe-
less low also. On the average of the investments, and
excluding agency balances and till money, the income
was only £3 7s. per cent. This suggests that the £58,153
in freeholds brings in a very poor return. Probably the
co. doesn’t charge itself much, if anything, for rent.
That, of course, would reduce the average return
shown by the investments; but it would also
reduce the expense rate ; and that (especially con-
sidering the size of the loss rate) is heavy already.
Apart from the freehold property item the assets are an
unusually liquid lot. Mortgages amount to only £12,500;
the balance is nearly all deposits or public securities.
For this and other reasons the position from the policy-
holders’ point of view is highly satisfactory. The paid
capital and reserves are equal to 241 per cent, of the
year’s premiums, which is a 50 per cent, stronger show-
ing than that of the average British office. And on top
of that there is £256,207 of uncalled capital, the shares
being £lO, paid mostly to £2 10s.
* * * *
The Queensland Deposit Bank and Building
Society, Ltd. (Brisbane), from the year when it wrote off
£58,790, of which £19,595 went to wipe out a profit and
loss debit:—
Added to
Interest
Busi- Suspense Profit Added Nominal
ness a/c from from to Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Earnings. Sales. serves. serves
1900 .. £192 £2OO £2253 £2645 £8,109
1901 ~ 331 500 1054 1885 9,994
1902 .. 287 295 582 10,576
1903 .. 680 303 983 11,559
1904 .. 462 332 794 12,353
1905 .. 138 138 12,491
1906 86 86 12,577
Loss.
1907 .. 102 43 59 12,636
1908 .. 282 262 20 12,656
1909 .. 103 103 12,759
This bank suspended in 1892, owing depositors £178,369,
and it had an overdraft also of £44,392; total, £222,761.
On an arrangement being made with creditors it under-
took to pay 4£ per cent, interest. As usual at that time,
the core of the apple was more rotten than the skin ; so
in 1897, when the management had had time to explore
the innards, a rearrangement had to be made, interest
being reduced to 3 per cent., the deposits extended to
1918, and no dividend to be paid till all the old debt was
wiped off the slate. Since then assets have been sold
when possible, and some deposits have also been
bought back at a discount; and thus in one way
and another most of the old debt has now disappeared.
This shows the present position and the progress made
during the last few years :
Deposits, Property,
Capital. etc. Advances, etc. Cash.
1900 ~ £39,759 £50,614 £93,571 £4900
1905 .. 47,291 35,589 94,478 757
1906 .. 47,304 34,567 93,023 1284
1907 .. 47,304 33,092 92,906 127
1908 .. 47,304 30,320 90,078 203
1909 .. 47,305 28,362 88,337 90
Profit from ordinary business—advances, etc,—has been
very little help; still, the position in that respect has
probably been rather better than the first table shows,
because considerable amounts have been spent on repairs.
On the other hand, there is the accrued interest, with
regard to which the accounts are not at all clear. In
1897 it was arranged that the 3 per cent, interest should
all be paid in one lump in 1918 ; and there is no trace of
that arrangement having been modified. There is, never-
theless, no item of accrued interest among the liabilities ;
and it ought to be made clear whether the item “De-
posits, £30,047,” includes this accrued interest liability.
Apparently no new deposits are being taken ; if they are
they ought to be shown separately. There is no good
reason why, if they are wanted, they should not be forth-
coming ; for they are a first charge on the assets. And
though the properties (£53,007) include a large quantity
of unproductive land, the advances are to all appearances
good and profitable, and they alone amount to considerably
more than the deposits, What will be left for the share-
holders depends of course mainly on what those properties
will realise ; and Tiif, Bulletin’s prophetic robe is away
getting repaired at the moment, so this paper can’t say any-
thing on that point. In 1905 the chairman said that the
reserves, plus forfeited capital, would allow of enough
being written off properties to bring them down to their
approximate true values ; and Queensland’s position has
certainly got no worse since then. But all this still
leaves the question of accumulated interest liability in
doubt. '
* * * *
The Federal Deposit Bank, Ltd. (Bris-
bane) : —This co. was until about 12 months ago the
Federal Building-, Land, and Investment Society, Ltd.,
and the chief events in its career may be set down as
follows :
ISB6. —Born. Parents very drunk on loan money at the
time. All Brisbane, in fact, drunk. Promptly went
on the drunk itself.
1892. —Woke up to the fact that it had been on the spree,
and that it had made all sorts of promises. Not
sober enough yet to see that it couldn’t redeem the
promises. Said it would be “all (hie) ri’ in morn-
ingsli (hie).”
1895. —Not all right yet. Trying to get in calls to make
things right.
1896. —Resolved that the capital be reduced by writing
7s. 6d. off each share. Also made up its mind to get
in ss. per share so far uncalled.
1901.—Only got in Is. so far ; and has had to forfeit a
total of 53,854 shares, leaving only 94,544 more or less
alive.
1907. —Co. got a shock. Actually made a profit—the first
since it left off the drunk.
1908. —Another loss (March). Then it decided that, if it
cleaned things up a bit, and removed some of the
traces of the old riotous proceedings from its pre-
mises and documents, it might have a better chance
to do a bit of good for itself. So it wrote off all the
old bogus reserves (about £14,500), wrote that much
off the book value of its properties, wiped out all
reference to the old uncalled capital, cut the
nominally paid capital in halves and called half of it
capital and the other half (£22,291) “ deferred deben-
tures.” Also it left off calling itself a building, land
and investment society, and blossomed into the
Federal Deposit Bank.
The new concern started on October 1, 1908, with a deficit
of £l7l representing preliminary expenses ; it has during
the year paid that off and accumulated a credit balance
of £568. The year’s profit (£739) works out at only
£3 6s. 6d. per cent, on the capital ; and from that it
doesn’t look as though the capital has been written down
any too hard. But “freehold properties” still stand at
£25,117 ; and there is a great deal of unproductive land
in that lot. Depositors and other creditors, apart from
debenture-holders, have claims for £45,543; and loans
and other advances represent only £48,471. There-
fore practically all the capital and the debentures
are represented by freeholds and “sundry land pur-
chasers”—and, as mentioned just now, a big slice of
the freehold property is accumulating nothing but the
suburban jam-tin. Things may turn out all right by-and-
bye ; it depends upon by-and-bye’s demand for such land
as the co. has to offer. The present, it seems, doesn’t
demand it to any extent worth mentioning; and the
only transactions traceable are in connection with the
surrender of debentures for land. By the way, deferred
debentures “rank after the creditors and the share
capital”; but if they can be surrendered for land, they
don’t rank so far behind as they might.
It is about time that the Commonwealth had a
word to say to concerns that call themselves “ banks ”
and “deposit banks.” Take this Federal Deposit Bank,
for instance. Apart from debentures and “ sundry credi-
tors,” it has £42,161 on deposit; and on September 30 all
the cash it had was £993. If an ordinary bank has 35 per
cent, of its liabilities represented by cash and liquid assets
it doesn’t usually think that it has any too much ; but
this concern hasn’t 2£ per cent, of its liabilities in cash.
And it doesn’t look as though much of its other assets
were promptly convertible either.
« * * a
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. (Sydney)
Reserves
(not in-
cluding
£500,000
Depre-
To Re- eiation
Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
Mar., 1903.. £100,298 10p.c. =£loo,ooo £298 £422,185
Sept., 1903.. 100,316 10 „ „ 100,000 316 422,501
Mar., 1904.. 100,412 10 „ ~ 100,000 412 422,913
Sept., 1904.. 105,111 10 „ ~ 104,608 503 423,416
Mar., 1905.. 155,322 15 „ ~ 164,705 414,033
Sept., 1905.. 112,343 10 „ „ 109,965 2,378 416,411
Mar., 1906.. 112,042 10 „ „ 110,000 2,042 418,453
Sept., 1906.. 111,679 10 „ „ 110,000 1,679 420,132
Mar., 1907.. 110,827 10 ~ „ 110,000 827 420,959
Sept., 1907.. 118,057 10 ~ ~ 110,000 8,057 429,016
£75,000 of reserves capitalised .. 354,016
Mar., 1908.. 134,782 10 p.c. =£124,037 10,745 864,761
Sept., 1908.. 146,493 10 „ ~ 124,885 21,608 386,369
£350,000 of reserves capitalised .. 36,369
Mar., 1909.. 162,632 10 p.c. =£142,500 20,132 56,001
Sept., 1909.. 168,881 10 ~ ~ 142,500 26,381 82.882
This is the Mrs. Gummidge among Australian cos. Its
corner of the fireside is the warmest and snuggest in the
Commonwealth, and its chair the easiest; but still it’s
a lone lorn creetur and everything goes contrairy with it.
Its chairman’s speech is always damp. Nothing is .ever
quit e right. Now they’ve .had a strike. Otherwise “ the
season’s work is not unsatisfactory ” ; and when the C.S.R.
admits that much, things must have been remarkably pro-
fitable indeed. As a matter of fact, the accounts for the
half-year show a profit of £168,881. But, going
always on the principle that something will probably
turn out wrong, the co. has habitually put a little bit up
its sleeve whenever it has seen any little bit lying around
loose. And after it has gone on stuffing little bits up its
sleeve for a few years the accumulation has got in the
road when the old lady has wanted to wipe the tear from
her eye, and she has got rid of the trouble by issuing new
shares. In the last two years the co. has thus issued
£425,000 of new capital by the simple process of shakingit
down out of the sleeve ; not a penny of this has been sup-
plied by the shareholders, who, nevertheless, have the joy
of pocketing another £42,500 a year in dividends. In
addition, they have the joy of pocketing 10 per cent, on
another £225,000 which they have put up in the last year
or two. Yet, though only this £225,000 of new capital
has been put up, the disclosed profits have increased in
the last three years, say, by £lOO,OOO a year. Under such
circumstances one can almost be forgiven for
doubting whether formerly the disclosed profits
were the true profits. Of course, the alternative
is that the co. is over-stating its present profits ; but that
has never been Mrs. Gummidge’s nature, and there are no
signs that she has changed the old one. What is probably
distressing her a good deal just now is the item—“ Cash
at bankers and short loans, £675,188.” To have that
much loose change, apart from investments, is enough
to make any poor person miserable. And yet there
is one fly in the co.’s gilded pot. “The Federal Govern-
ment proposes to appoint a non-political commission to
inquire into the position of the sugar industry "—that
statement in the chairman’s speech suggests the nature
of the insect. This one co. is taking, say, £350,000 a year
out of the sugar industry ; and if it isn’t giving value for
the money its monopoly is in danger. In fact, it is in
danger, anyway. And the co. knows that ; hence, no
doubt, the further remark of the chairman; “Speak-
ing generally, we regard the extension of our business in
Fiji as desirable.” The co. would no doubt rather that
things should go on as they have been going ; but if that
should not b possible, then it hopes still to have a future
as a big- sugar planter in an island where the Jap and the
Indian coolie flourish and the Labor party doesn’t.
* » * •»
The (Jastlemaine Brewery Co. (Melbourne)
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
1899 .. £6,640 Nil £5,000 £1,520
Reserves.
1900 .. 11,067 2£ per cent. =£3125 2,500 3,922
1901 .. 11,963 5 „ „ 6250 ' 2,500 7,135
1902 .. 7,589 5 „ ~ 6250 8,474
1903 .. 1,421 Nil 9,895
1904 .. 4,255 Nil 8,599 5,551
1905 .. 6,263 4 per cent. = 5000 1,500 5,314
1906 .. 1,498 Nil 2,000 4,812
Loss. Deficit.
1907 .. 11,302 Nil 2,396 8,886
Written off advances.. .. .. 2,871 11,757
Written off Freeholds, Brewery, etc.
(net). 29,029 40,786
Sept., Loss.
1908 .. 1,442 Nil 42,228
Reserves.
Capital written off (7/6 per share = £46,875) .. 4,647
Profit.
1909.. 1,581 2 per cent. = 1562 4,666
This was one of the Melbourne brewery concerns which
passed over to the combine —the Carlton and United
Breweries, Limited. But the combine had no use for
the co.’s brewery; and the latter was, therefore, re-
valued, and so severely written down that, in order to
square the accounts, the 255. shares (£1 paid) have been
reduced down to 17s. 6d. (12s. 6d. paid). But as against
the writing down of the brewery, etc., must be set the
value of the co.’s interest in the combine. Nominally,
this is £102,500, of which £20,500 apparently passed over
to the combine in the shape of cash or substantial assets,
leaving £82,000 to, in a sense, represent goodwill. That
item stands in the place of the co.’s own “breweries,
etc.,” item, those “breweries, etc.,” being for the pre-
sent, at any rate, unproductive, although there are
hopes that something will presently be done with this
property. The following shows the change in the various
items:—
1900. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Debenture debt .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £76,700
Other debts to
public .. .. 55,838 24,104 22,087 30,11/
Breweries, etc. .. 83,569 82,174) 95 noo 26 278
Stock and plant.. 34,777 10,300/ ’ ’
Hotels, etc. .. 107,686 122,952 94,06 / 91,197
Advances, trade , ,
debtors.. .. 58,162 15,637 4,664 3,261
Cash, etc 6,261 9,154 4,253 169
Carlton & United
Breweries’shares 76,875 76,8/5
For the first year of its existence the combine paid 6 per
cent. ; for the past year—its second —no div. was
paid in the second half, so that, calculated on the
full 12 months, only 3 per cent, was divided. This
meant £3075 for the Castlemaine Co. The combine
didn’t take over hotels, etc., though it has certain
options over them ; and from rents the Castlemaine got
enough to pay its debenture interest. Still, hotel and
other repairs are heavy, and the co. w'ouldn’t have shown
enough profit to cover even a 2 per cent. div. but for the
item—“ Realisation of property and securities over book
value, transfer fees, etc., £2745.” This isn’t the sort of
item that can be relied upon to recur. Nevertheless, if
the combine can pay even 5 percent, (it has been using
up recent profits in making improvements), this co.’s
whack would be £2050 more than it was last year;
so, even without profits from sales of properties,
a small dividend ought to be forthcoming.
And if the combine pays 1 per cent, extra, what this co.
gets out of it will pay within a small fraction of 1J per
cent, extra to its own shareholders. The reserves shown
for the past year are independent of an item which
appears for the first time: “Debenture sinking fund,
£6610.” It isn’t clear where this comes from. Possibly
some of it is profit made on the purchase of debentures
during the year, for it will be noticed that a big slice has
been cut oft the total outstanding.
WIOKHAM AND BULLOCK ISLAND COAL Co.: —
Mine Develop- Writ-
merit Expendi- ten
Loss. ture. off. Defii i .
Sept., 1903.. £1163 £1,458
Mar., 1904.. 1214 2,702
Profit.
Sept., 1904.. 353 - 2,349
Mar., 1905.. 105 2,244
Sept., 1905.. 289 £221 £1856 4,032
Mar., 1906.. 577 751 4,206
Loss.
Sept., 1906.. 2 2974 7,182
Profit.
Mar., 1907.. 441 4274 1280 12,295
Loss.
Sept., 1907.. 17 1010 984 14,306
Profit.
Mar., 1908.. 5377 2447 3021 14,397
Sept., 1908.. 8094 1605 6103 14,011
Mar., 1909.. 8061 684 6557 13,191
Sept., 1908.. 8655 147 3713 8,396
The luck of drunken men stuck to this co. For it was
very drunken. It steadily ate up its mine, and yet its
balance-sheet all the time pretended that the mine was
as good as new. At the last moment, therefore, when
the mine consisted of a damp hole in the ground and a
quantity of rubbish on a sandbank, the books said that
the property was still worth £Bl,OOO. At last the pre-
tence couldn’t be kept up any longer, and the situation
had to be faced. There were three lots of shares—
ordinary, preferent, and new'. Even if the coal-waggons,
the damp hole, and the rubbish on the sand-heap were all
sold at top prices, ordinaries knew that there wouldn’t be a
penny left after paying off the other shares. They therefore
stuck out for getting a new mine. Things couldn’t be worse
for them that way, and they might be better. The co.
accordingly went west, and got hold of the Neath, at
Cessnock, on the adjacent Maitland field ; and luck stuck
to it. It kept its old connection, and got on to a splen-
did seam very soon, and was able to do nearly all the
development work out of the proceeds of coal-sales. On
September 30, 1903, when the resolution to purchase the
new property was submitted, the paid capital was
£103,078, and the co.’s surplus of liquid assets over lia-
bilities was £1773. The new property has been bought
and equipped w'ith coal-cutters, etc., and a branch railway
has been putin; and, although only £5170 more capital
has been got in, the excess of liabilities over liquid
assets is now only £6216. The co. has thus absorbed
£1773 of assets, gone £6216 into debt, and got in £5170 of
capital; and for that total of £13,159 it has bought a new
mine, developed it, equipped it, and connected it, not-
vvi hstanding that early in the proceedings it had to give
as much as 12 per cent, for some of the money it bor-
rowed to pay for the new property. A restilt like that
wouldn’t be possible in the best regulated world—it is
altogether too much like offering a premium to improvi-
dence. The co. is in 70,000 ordinary £l, 20,000 pref. £l,
and 20,000 new shares paid to 18s. The prefs. carry 12 J
per cent.
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees’
Association of Australia (Melbourne):—
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £1283 1J p.c. = £375 £943 £6776
1900 .. 1801 2i „ „ 750 £lO5l 7827
1901 .. 1887 ~ „ 750 1137 8964
1902 .. 1864 2| „ „ 750 376 738 9702
1903 .. 1940 2j „ „ 825 2040 8777
1904 .. 2009 3 „ „ 900 9357 529
1905 .. 2198 3£ „ ~ 1050 1148 1677
1906 .. 2250 4j „ ~1275 975 2652
1907 .. 2392 5 „ „ 1500 892 3544
1908 .. 2806 5 „ ~ 1500 1306 4850
1909 .. 2930 5 „ „ 1500 1430 6280
Trustee cos. came with a rush in Victoria about 20 or 25
years ago. All Melbourne was then straining its eyes
looking for an easy way to get rich ; and the trustee co.
struck it as a great idea. Though nominally invested in
a trustee co., the capital was really invested in mort-
gages, etc., and the profits from the trustee business
were all “ bunce.” This co. suffers from that old rush—
there is really not enough work for it and all the rest to
do. The capital, originally £25,000, was increased
to £30,000; and nearly all of it was dropped
into mortgages. It was a time when foreign capi-
tal was pouring in and producing an utterly' arti-
ficial condition of prosperity. Then the foreign
investor became uneasy and wanted his money back ; and
the smash followed. This co., like scores of others, found
itself left with securities worth far less than it had ad-
vanced against them ; and all the profits which the busi-
ness there if ter made down to 1899 had to go towards
wiping out those losses. In that year divs. were resumed
in a modest way ; but the bulk of the profits still went
into the old hole. Whether the old hole is qui/e filled up
now The Bulletin doesn’t know. The co. lumps all its
income, and doesn’t distinguish whatitreceives in interest
from what it receives in commission earnings ; so that
it is not possible to judge of the quality of the
assets from the revenue they' are producing. 111 fact,
the co.’s capacity for not mentioning things amounts
almost to genius. It doesn’t, for instance, say what it
does with its corpus commissions—that is, the commis-
sion payable, by an estate on the capital value, as dis-
tinguished from the commission on the income, which is
payable to the co. annually. In the bulk, this corpus
commission paid by an estate frequently comes to more
than the aggregate of the annual commissions ; and a co.
can bring it into profit and loss account just whenever it
pleases. For this reason a single year’s statement of


O'
<v
y \vr_
So tKaiit >
Will be >
Carried? „
0ut...../
i
lift
1
< V,
Sfc
m
HEINE
Water Tube Boilers
Made by
MARSHALL, SONS & CO.,
Gainsborough, England.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
STRAIGHT TUBES.
PERFECT CIRCULATION.
FRASER & CHALMERS, LTD.,
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
[4
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
profit by most trustee cos. is worth hardly anything. You
must take a general view. And running the eye down
the Profit column of this one, it seems that things have
steadily improved in the past 10 years. But whether the
real profits have improved to the extent shown is another
matter ; for in the earlier years considerable profit may
have been made but not disclosed, being applied towards
writing down old over-valued assets. The disclosed
earnings last year were at the rate of £8 Bs. 2d.,per cent,
on capital and reserves combined, which is very moderate
for a trustee co. ; but there is no way to tell whether this
is due mainly to poor interest earnings or to poor com-
mission earnings. The assets include £lO,OOO of Govern-
ment stock, £12,175 of mortgages and other advances,
and £13,950 of recently-purchased office premises. On
the last there is a mortgage of £5OOO, which represents
practically all the co.’s liabilities.
* * * *
Broken Hill South is preparing to open up a
deeper level, and that work will be watched keenly on
account of the strange freak which the ore body played
by spreading itself out in a boot-shaped formation on the
950 ft. level. But the possibilities of the South mine do
not rest entirely on developments at depth. More or less
high-grade ore was left in the upper levels in the days
when Broken Hill mining was conducted on wild-cat
lines. On one occasion a party of miners walked through
a friable ore body between the 200 ft. and 300 ft. levels at
the rate of about 40ft. a week, and the timbering wasn’t
of a kind calculated to be as lasting as the Pyramids. One
day a shot was fired and the whole place came together,
burying nobody knows how many hundreds of tons of
rich ore. That place has never been opened up since,
but it will be one of these days.
• • * *
That 5 per cent, underwriting commission which
the Baillieus got on the Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavav’s)
issue was very easily earned. The new co. is in 500,000
shares. Old shareholders got 247,500 (= 2} shares for
every old one), “ Bill ” Baillieu took 7500 “ for guarantee-
ing overdraft, etc.” ; the old shareholders had the right to
apply for 45,000 shares, and naturally they exercised it,
seeing the premium the things are at ; the public was
offered 77,500, and applied for about 385,000 ; and 122,500
are in reserve. Govett, of the Lake View Consols, stood
in with Baillieu, which explains how 8., M. and Co. came
to take a hand in the flotation ; also, Lionel Robinson and
his London firm. When it’s all boiled down everything
depends on the spelter market; and the spelter market
depends on the zinc combine. And how that’s going to
pan out, in view of the increased sources of production,
not even Bill Baillieu knows.
* * » »
Mt. David, Rocldey (N.S.W.), crushed 510 tons
for 2280 z. gold, and cyanided 362 tons for 85£oz. This
looks respectable; but it doesn’t happen often enough.
Still something is always happening to inspire hope that
there are better time’s ahead. Across the valley is the
Main Ridge deep-lead mine, which is supposed to have a
long run of payable cement wash, though expectations
are mainly based on often-deceptive dish prospects. Mt.
David has also some alluvial covered by basalt, and it has
a vague idea that it may get a tributary run of wash.
The shaft is down 120 ft., and the water is so heavy that
perhaps the bottom isn’t far off. Not far away are the
Native Dog and Madman’s Gully, both of which yielded
large quantities of coarse gold ; so the locality is worth
trying.
* * * * ,
Among the new crop of N.S.W. copper mines,
Kyloe is pushing itself easily into the front place. In the
No. 4 north drive last week there was a 10ft. face of 20
per cent. ore. The face of the south drive is 445 ft. away,
and there is ore continuously between the two, though
some of it is only milling ore, and barely payable. Last
week, however, 34 tons were broken out in driving at the
south end, and it was worth 7‘6 per cent.; so the lens, or
shoot, or whatever it is, is no chicken. Practically no
sloping has been done from No. 2 downwards ; and on
present metal prices there should be two years’ steady
divs. at sixpence a month in the ore already exposed
above No. 4, assuming that the drives have passed through
average sections of the body.
* * * •»
Allen and party have got on to a promising
show in the Boppy Boulder, two miles nor’-west of the
big Boppy (N.S.W.). They are working down on a very
big quartz and quartzite formation, and prospects can be
got for the full width of 30ft. Nothing in the way of a
bulk sample has been taken ; but patches here and there
have gone up to 3oz.
* * * *
John Howell’s tough proposition, the Conrad
(N.S. VV.), has been taken in hand by his son-in-law,
B. 0. Besley, who, though he is supposed to know more
about fat stock than complex ores, has got a co. to back
him in the enterprise. The mine has been idle for a
couple of years, but the co. has hopes of having a couple
of hundred men at work when 1910 is still a youngster.
Principal Westralian results for September :
Re- Value
Ton- venue. Profit. per
nage. £ £ ton.
Great Boulder .. .. 18,117 50,166 27,301 55/4
Ivanhoe 19,231 40,644 20,014 42/3
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,681 49,060 20,046 39/9
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,137 20,550 10,871 36/11
Kalgurli 10,450 27,020 15,020 51/9
Boulder Perseverance.. 18,845 27.328 5,077 29/-
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 13,009 22,358 8,935 34/4
Great Fingall .. .. 10,474 14,605 1,597 27/11
Associated .. .. 11,235 20,775 6,087 37/-
Ohaffers 3,745 7,015 2,049 37/5
Hainault 6,003 7,722 1,520 25/8
South Kalgurli .. .. 9,036 12,509 2,824 27/8
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,595 11,567 4,543 50/4
Lake View Consols .. 9,036 13,028 2,538 *2B/10
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,340 5,864 2,823 50/1
Associated Northern .. 3,533 5,602 1,976 31/8
Mararoa 2,607 4,700 2,147 36/1
Gwalia Consolidated .. 6,501 8,893 731 27/4
Northern Mines .. 7,502 8,024 624 21/5
Boulder No. 1 .. .. 1,507 2,205 110 29/3
Sandstone Development 1,400 2.770 625 39/7
Marvel Loch .. .. 1,542 2,091 590 27/1
North White Feather.. 2,200 3,477 649 31/7
Peak Hill .. .. 6,806 2,441 54 7/2
Ida H 1,200 2,696 95 44/11
Vivien 3,533 3,628 9 20/7
Cumberland .. .. 333 1,768 930 106/2
Sirdar 900 741 326 16/6
Orion 806 1,313 6 32/7
Gwalia South .. .. 2,065 3,824 662 37/-
Loss.
Lancefield .. .. 7,949 12,922 646 32/6
* Including £1094 derived from retreatment of old
slimes.
* * * *
Westralia paid out £994,019 in gold-mining divi-
dends for the nine months ended September 30. The
amount was made up as follows: Great Boulder,
£196,875; Ivanhoe, £190,000; Horseshoe, £165,000; Kal-
gurli, £112,000; Perseverance, £70,000; Associated
Northern, £52,500; Sons of Gwalia, £40,000; Associated,
£24,768; Black Range, £24,468; Oroya-Brown Hill,
£22 500; Fingall, £21,875 ; Golden Ridge, £20,859 ; Oroya-
Black Range, £15,000; Gwalia South, £12,000; South
Kalgurli. £lO,OOO ; Mararoa, £lO,OOO ; New North Boulder,
£2lOO ; Hannan’s Reward, £1748 ; Lady Gladys, £l2OO.
The year’s distribution is expected to exceed^£l,2so, 000.
After taking seven years to think it over, the
Moore Government has come to the belated conclusion
that the incorporated cos. operating in the West are liable
to pay a duty of Is. in .the £1 on all dividends declared,
in addition to the tax already imposed. The Government
also wants to collect a fine of 5 per cent, on the amount
of the duty alleged to be overdue. In the case of the big
mining concerns the additional tax will tot up to more
than £30,000; and in view of the weighty sum at stake,
they are going to have a test case decided before writing
out a cheque.
* * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) has found nothing worth re-
porting in the crosscut at 400 ft., but hopes to pick up the
missing shoot in driving. Meanwhile amalgamation with
the Boulder Main Reef is still being discussed. Chaffers
has a fair tonnage of payable ore developed in the old and
new workings, has a good speculative value in depth, and
owns a substantial cash reserve. The Main Reef has a
mill, also a deep shaft; and both would be useful to
Chaffers. Its ore prospects, however, are not encourag-
ing ; and, though it may get the extension of the Boulder
shoot in deep ground, the outlook for that isn’t too hope-
ful. To make matters worse, it is hard up and will have
to meet its creditors shortly. In order to get it out of
difficulties and hitch it up with Chaffers, the formation of
a new co. with a share issue of 750,000 is proposed. This
concern would take over the assets and liabilities of the
old cos.; Chaffers holders would get share for share, and
Main Reef holders two for every three'shares now held.
This seems a fair basis of amalgamation, and should
prove acceptable to both bodies of shareholders. Lewis
Aarons has it in hand.
* * * *
Gwalia South (W.A.) has started to pick up.
Leastways, Chairman Yeo told shareholders so at
the half-yearly meeting. Among other things, he said
that recent developments had greatly improved the out-
look ; but he candidly admitted that money was needed
for prospecting and for. titivating the plant, which, he
was sorry to say, had “ not been kept in proper order.”
In view of this, dividends would have to be done without
for the time being. The shrinkage in the bulk and value
of the ore reserves as compared with the estimate of six
months ago was also touched on, and the discrepancy was
dismissed with the simple remark that the older figures
must have been wrong. At the extraordinary meeting
which followed shareholders sanctioned the issue of 40,000
new 10s. shares on condition that they were not sold for
less than £1 a-piece.
* * * *
The position of the Golden Pole (W.A.) as set
out at the half-yearly meeting is told in a few words.
One shoot, 40 odd feet, in length, has been exposed south of
the crosscourse at the No. 7 level, and the manager is
“sure” of getting another one further ahead. No. 3
north level h .s payable ore in the face, and is to be ex-
tended ; while underfoot at No. 7 level 3ft. of stuff
“ which should average 14rlvvt." is alleged to be visible for
a horizontal distance of 160 ft. On the strength of this,
shareholders are asked to buck up. The co.’s chief assets
at the date of the meeting were £7lOO cash, a fair-sized
dump of slimes, 3000 tons of ore reserves, 2000 tons of old
fillings “worth treating,” and the surface plant. The
profit on the ore crushed during the next six months is
expected to nearly meet the expenditure incurred in
breaking new ground, results from which it is hoped will
keep the undertaker at arm’s length for a year or two
longer.
South Kalgurli and Golden Ridge (W.A.) have
just totted up their ore reserves, and shareholders are
not likely to get the blues over either. South Kalgurli
reckons it has: actual, 156,939 tons, worth 6'97dwt.;
probable, 148,174 tons, worth 6’o3dwt. Allowing fair
costs, there should he in this a profit of about £75,000,
which with the £85,000 cash in hand would give the
shares a dividend value of 16s. or thereabouts. Golden
Ridge estimates its reserves at 60,000 tons, of a recover-
able value of 60s. ; this is 5000 tons more than were
visible six months ago. Assuming that 265. per ton
covers the cost of getting the gold and keeping develop-
ment going, there is a profit in sight equal to 75 per
cent, of the market value. But, as many times remarked,
ore measurements and dividend values have lied so bare-
facedly in the past that their word is doubted in the
West nowadays. Still the tu’o estimates given above may
be regarded with less suspicion than usual.
With habitual dilatoriness Hannan’s Propri-
etary (W.A.) has just come to light with its year-old
annual report. From this it appears that the work done
on the Kalgoorlie leases has been, or rather was, of an ex-
ploratory nature, the policy of the Board being “to
watch carefully the developments in the mines adjoining
the co.’s areas,” and to carry on operations based on in-
formation received. The year’s expenditure amounted
to £5lOO, out of which the directors got £lOOO, and a good
deal of the balance went to other officials ; and this cheer-
ful policy is likely to last as long as the funds. Outside
Westralia the co.’s principal assets consist of interests in
the Prentice and Southern Deep Leads (Vic.) and the
Phoenix mine (Cornwall), which are jointly valued in the
balance-sheet at £25,355, but which wouldn’t realise much
just now.
* * * *
An official circular which reached Australian
holders last week states that the guaranteed capital of
the new Hannan’s Star-Deep Levels Co., together with
existing cash assets, will provide a working fund of
£59,500, which will he increased to £68,000 if the whole of
the shares offered for subscription are taken up. The
combined ore reserves amount to 166,500 tons, averaging
325. 6d. per ton ; but this estimate does not include any
ore from Morrison’s lode in the Hannan’s Star below No.
3 level, although it has been exposed at various points
down to 1100 ft. It is considered that the reserves can be
“rendered available for immediate extraction”; also
that, after ear-marking a sufficient sum for an up-to-date
equipment, and allowing for contingencies, enough of
the subscribed capital will be left to systematically ex-
plore the 113 acres owned by the new co. The Minister
for Mines has promised to look into things on behalf of
Westralian holders, who haven’t had a fair deal; but it is
unlikely that the latter will get any satisfaction.
* * * *
The fusion of the Hannan’s Star and Deep
Levels has been confirmed at a joint meeting of London
shareholders, and the new co. is to be known as the
Hannan’s Star Consolidated. The bad language of dis-
gusted Star holders is still heard in the West; but. peace
and quiet might set in if the guarantors (Lionel Robinson
and the Lake View Consols) agreed to divide their two
years’ option on the extra 100,000 shares with other share-
holders in proportion to the shares subscribed for. Nego-
tiations for quelling the disturbance by this means are
now pending.
» * * *
Barrambie Ranges, Murchison (W.A.), that
vaunted 3oz. show in A. J. Peacock’s Melbourne office,drags
a weary course. The old talk of gold-thieving to account
for disappointing yields has been dropped in the face of
the hard fact that last half-year 2175 tons yielded only
17890 z. and 5280 z. cyanide bullion. Even throwing in
the bullion at gold value, this only means loz. per ton
instead of the 3oz. that used to be talked about. Still
loz. ought to pay ; but it doesn’t. What is mixing up
things is that No. 2 level carries a little silver,
lead and gold—a combination to make the metal-
lurgist sweat. J. M. Aldridge, who is again in
charge, nevertheless chants a cheerful roundelay
of what will be and what won’t be. When the dividend
total is seen to stick at £3734 from £45,000 gold won, a
buoyant spirit is needed to keep hopes afloat. Aldridge
has that temperament; and, moreover, his advice to the
directors to sink and open out No. 3 level is horse-sense
of the best kind. So he can well be wished a share of the
luck that has clung to Hans Irvine over his not very
far distant Black Range show.
* * * ■*
The recent half-yearly bleat of the Cathcart
(Vic.) fell mighty' weak on the expectant ear, which had
got itself used to hearing Cathcart and millions men-
tioned together. The half-year ended with only £153 in
hand. Thus the mine’s record so far is 10 years’ work,
the expenditureof £55,000 by the present co., and £153 in
hand ! That is the story of the past. As to the future,
which is to bring wealth to all and sundry, Manager
George Bryant chortles out: “ I consider your property
one of the most valuable in the State, and I have no hesi-
tation in saying that it will in a short time prove highly
profitable to shareholders.” The evidence for this may
be clear to George Bryant, but it isn’t sticking out con-
spicuously in his report: For which George B. shows
true wisdom, because deep-lead alluvial shows have an
awkward knack of trippinj-up the true believer. Start-
ing at No. 5 rise, George B. tells that gold was hit on the
north side of the rise ; No. 6 rise saw good ground 150 ft.
wide, still on the north side of the lead ; and at No. 9
rise the width of the rich ground on the same
side was 280 ft. This ground, in Bryant’s belief, is
fattened up by the British Queen tributary. The
w-idth of good ground at No. 10 rise is 120 ft. ;
beyond that there is 145 ft., “ irregular, but a good sample
of gold.” As the width of the good ground at these last
three rises seems to be from 150 ft. to 280 ft., there cannot
be a very big reserve of rich wash. It is reasonable to
assume that when the area of enrichment of the British
Queen gutter is passed, there will cornea falling off in
the value of the dirt. So even if, as Bryant claims, the
Cathcart lead makes due east instead of south-east or
south, it does not follow that the richness of Nos. 7, 9
and 10 rises is to be duplicated ahead, unless feeders come
in. On Bryant’s report, the outside talk of the Cathcart
being a second Madame Berry is wild speculation. There
was 1000 ft. of rich ground in that mine, and the lead was
worked for 800 ft. wide in places. How can that happen
in the Cathcart when the gutter is but half that width?
* * * *
Along with the report of the Cathcart conies
the tale of a proved big alluvial mine—from John Cock,
of Chiitern Valley, Chiitern. Out of that mine £1,146,138
of gold has been got ; and its record of dividends is
£237,000. No one is going to say that John Cock does
not know alluvial and how to work it, so it can be taken
that he has got the most out of his claim at
the least cost. Yet the dividends pan out at
only 20 per cent, of the gold won. There is
always a hustle on at the mine. Look at the six
months’ work—-112,000 tons raised, or over 18,000 a month.
And that means hard work in a mine with the length
of drives of the Chiitern Valley, where the ground is
crushing and there’s the Devil to pay through the wet
winter. John Cock got through the half-year practically
w’ithout loss. When he meets his old boss, J. A. Wallace,
in the place good souls frequent hereafter, he will be able
to tell how he did it. No one else on earth is able to
solve the problem.
Duke and Main Leads Consols, Maryborough,
is the biggest deep-lead show' in Victoria. The why of
this is that it has 17,000 ft. of a gutter to w'ork, there
are two shafts through which dirt is yanked to the sur-
face, and it is on a big lead. Wash averages a shade over
15dwt. all round—say 60s. At No. 1 shaft costs are
365. 9d. per fathom, leaving over sdwt. for profits. This
is splendid going, and shows how good plant and the pro-
secution of Work on a big scale help to reduce costs.
No. 2 shaft costs lately went up to 67s.—a long
jump from 42s.—and so work there verged on
loss. But expenses are now' dow'n to 515., and,
with a lot of dead work done, they ought to come
a little lower. With the faces here so far from the
shaft, and the wash so low dowm in the face, there can’t,
how'ever, be much of a reduction. Chairman Hartley
wants to take out the w'ash proved—about 12 months’
work —and throw this shaft out of commission. But as
there are outside axes to grind, Hartley may find it hard
to do this. Nevertheless he is on the right track when
he seeks to work the mine from a single shaft and to
keep the leading drives well ahead ; and he is very right
also when he tries to bar all share-market monkeying.
New Black Horse, Egerton (Vic.), is almost all
that is left of a once-famous group of claims. There isn’t
much that is unusual or mysterious about the co., except
that it runs a consulting engineer as well as a mine-
manager. A dark horse is the new mine-manager. He
deduces that, as samples taken by him from the upper
level gave encouraging results, the claim is in a “ golden
belt of country.” He also hands out this: “The one
great feature about your mine is that it is on the same
line of reef as the Black Horse and Egerton mines, famous
in their day as great gold-producers ; and I see no reason
why your mine in the near future should not equal them,
if my recommendations are carried out.” There is as nice
a bit of native modesty in the last sentence as is to be
seen anywhere outside of a daily newspaper office. The
reason why this mine may not equal the old ones may be
simply the lack of gold in the stone. No amount of dog-
matising over a scheme of works will bridge that gap.
*•*■* ■*
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, closed its half-
year w'ith a credit of £37,000, after paying £20,000 for the
D.D. Block and Wyndham mill. The deep levels are hold-
ing out a little more encouragement, and No. 13 at
1116 ft. from the shaft show's 6in. of good stone on the
hanging-wall side. The deepest level (No. 14) has been
driven 437 ft., with the end in diorite. The last fort-
nightly return w'as 1327 tons for £5041. English buying
orders having been supplied, Freeholds are hardly so
strong; and, with so many struggling veins, and with
rapid changes in size and quality of the reef, it will be
difficult for the market to hold on steadily’ to a valuation
of £300,000. No. 3 rise over No. 1 level at 80ft. had 2Jft.
of good stone in the face, and size and value have been
maintained up to the Mexican’s boundary. Brilliant
P.C., which adjoins the Brilliant Block on the eastern
boundary' of the Freehold, came along in sympathy’ with
recent Day Dawn developments. The P.O. shaft was
damaged by fire in 1904 ; but the prospecting work done
below the Brilliant formation before that happened didn’t
unearth anything that looked like a Day Dawn make.
The Brilliant P.O. evidently thought so too, for it shifted
most of its hauling machinery' to the Stockholm reef.
Mount Mollov (N.Q.) sends a more hopeful
account of prospecting operations at the 470 ft. level. The
south drive was lately’ discontinued; but an eastern
crosscut has run into ore near the contact of the black
slate, which seems to have a good deal to do with the
irregular but sometimes valuable ore bodies at Molloy.
Going north-east the country is disturbed, but a winze is
to be sunk on a payable patch discovered some time since.
North Queensland pioneer and prospector, Jack
Munro, is battling away at the Mitchell River antimony
mines, bent on making mincemeat of the MacArthurs’
Glasgow expert who abandoned the concern without even
testing the plant on which he had spent most of the co.’s
coin. Considering the money that was spent, there
wasn’t much to show when Munro, one of the promoters
of the co., recently took charge; and he came to the
conclusion that the special plant couldn’t have put
through 10 tons a year, let alone 50 tons a day. As far
as he can judge, however, the chemical part of the pro-
cess is all right, and when the plant has been licked into
shape it will be given a chance. In spite of the fiasco,
Munro’s idea still is that the mines will come all right.
•*•*■*•*
G. P. Doolette, who took an option over the
Mount Warminster (Q.), has pleaded not guilty to any
further intentions regarding it. So the co. has set up in
business for itself, and has arranged with the Melbourne
Goldfields Drilling Co. for 1000 ft. of boring. The plant
has arrived, and the WarminsterCo. is going about things
as if it is resolved to show Doolette what he missed.
North Mount Lyell, which is the rich end of
Mount Lyell, is finding patches of bornite in No. 1 South
drive about 200 ft. from the crossut. Rich ore at a depth
of 1100 ft. is enough to make any mine feel happy’,
especially if, as in this case, the stuff is supposed to run
down from the 1000 ft. level. A development north of the
crosscut at the 1000 ft. level is also important, as it may
lead to the finding of a large ore body in that direction.
Mount Lyell, taken as a whole, is often spoken of as low
grade, and the big monthly tonnage leaves that impression ;
but if Mount Morgan averaged its return on the total of
fluxes and ore as Mount Lyell does, the Queensland levia-
than would also appear poor, and its profit margin would
be considerably under that shown by Mount Lyell.
* * * *
Driven perhaps to insanity, Lee Archer, general
manager of the Victoria Insurance Co., who had long
suffered from a painful affection of the heart (angina
pectoris), took a bullet last week to .deaden the pain.
For over 2p years he had managed the Victoria, and he
was generally recognised as a valuable asset to that going
concern. Moreover, everybody liked him, and that’s a
fine epitaph for a man when it is remembered that Mel-
bourne insurance managers are not an overwhelmingly
popular lot. He was 64.
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
* * « *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. YVm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-S9 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
» » « »
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 80 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne; Beach Street. Fremantle *
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions o'f
this furnace are as follows—l6Bin. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom—thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne.* [2
* * * - fr
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring jess discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement ”
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney.* '[3
■* te ■* ■*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grinnvade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, under
date October, 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited—“ In every branch of business
success has been marked with sagacious management,
and it must be highly gratifying to all concerned to note
that the huge surplus at the last valuation has been put
to most excellent and practical use in strengthening its
resources.*
* * * *
Refractory Mines.— Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractor3 r ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
* # * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Trnax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydne.y ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
*■**■*■*
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting' of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, whichis common slack, being
less than ljlb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.*
•«•***
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colli son & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
4 • 4 #
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbrrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * » »
To get the best work and largest output for the
smallest outlay is the end aimed at in every modern
workshop—a result only secured by the use of up-to-date
machinery. Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, agents for
W. B. Haigh & Co., have been doing good business in the
wood-working industry, where Haigh’s machinery is
quickly recognised as the best type of British manu-
facture. This machinery is adapted for all classes of
work in sawmill or workshop, and while turning out the
best quality of work it is yet extremely simple and
economical. Gibson, Battle carry stocks of saw benches,
mortisers, planers, etc.*


The
Favorite Liqueur
Peter
F
Heermg
CHERRY
BRANDY
is#
DANDRUFF AND SCALP DISEASE.
» Dandruff is the lining of the hair follicles shed
through inflammation. It can only be present
when scalp disease has become well established.
By my expert individual treatment dandruff
will be entirely removed, and the scalp restored
to health. There is no case of dandruff that will
not yield to it. Mv fees are quite moderate,
though I am a specialist of experience.
A patient who was long troubled with dandruff
writes:—
“ I must not forget to tell you that the dandruff has
quite disappeared, and the hair is looking healthy. I
am doing my best to get others to try the treatment.”—
H. 8., New Zealand.
Call for free consultation any day but Saturday
between 2.15 and 4.45 ; or, by appointment, Wednesday
evening between 6 and 7. If you cannot call, write
enclosing 3d. in stamps for descriptive booklet and
testimonials to Mrs. Cowling, Dept. B, Hygeia Institute
Ocean House, opposite Government Savings Bank’
Moore Street, Sydney.*
J~Z
9
l say, deah, isn’t this weather
something awful? It really
isn’t fit to be about come,
let’s go and have a cup of
tea. What nonsense! why it
has been proved without a
shadow of doubt that women
who drink tea have better
complexions than those who
don't —just look at the English
and the Russian girls, what
lovely complexions they have,
and they drink a frightful lot
of tea I’m told.
Of course, one should be
careful as to the sort of tea
one drinks whether it’s pure
and cleanly packed and freshly
made and all that sort of
thing but for goodness sake
don’t let us worry, life’s too
short, deah besides, we’re
alright, we only drink Robur,
and it’s pure tea, and pure
tea will harm nobody all l
know is that if l miss my
afternoon cup 1 get a splitting
headache, and mother’s just
the same as l am. We used
to use the No. 2 Grade, but
lately we’ve been taking the
No. I, and we like it so much,
it’s simply lovely!
The Block Girl.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 2, 1909.
My Dear Arini, —
Governor Chelmsford, looking like the picture
of the boating undergraduate in the American
high-class magazine (he looks young enough for
the undergrad., and more American than Eng-
lish), steered a diplomatic way through the
smiling, waylaying crowd which tilled the Simp-
son lady’s party at the Golf Club last week,
surged up direct to his hostess and pulled off a
white Panama hat in greeting. Straight-
way the ocher men there felt their shiny
black-silk hair-destroyers to be worse than
the coals of fire that the very, very good
are said to heap on the heads of those who
have done them evil. His' Excellency’s striped
flannels and red tie and general atmosphere of
gaiety made for “good effect,” as the artists say.
He would look real cute in that garden party out-
fit if he were painted on the cover of The Lone
Hand. His consort was tailor-made in cream
serge, and the Simpson hostess had a fine back-
ground in the blue unclouded weather for her
shimmer}' black raiment and numerous black
feathers.
The Rollestons also made a little flash in the
social pan last week with a garden party. Their
garden sits by the sea ; in fact, one end has its
feet in the sea. Wooden fish carrying num-
bers were set swimming. With much gas
and giggling, youths and maidens angled for
the wooden fish, and to those who caught a cer-
tain number or numbers went the prize. It
sounds an absolutely harmless amusement. Father
Bernard Vaughan would scarcely enumerate it in
the sins of the Smart Set. In fact it seems almost
too solemn to be a sin.
The Walter Bruntons have sped south for the
Cup. The Spencer Bruntons kindly stood by this
almost deserted city for the purpose of giving a
children’s party on the day that is Derby Day in
Melbourne. The Consett Stephens are returners
of the near future, but they come from foreign
parts, and won’t know till they get to Fremantle
which cow ran second for the Cup—as “ the Man
from Mexico” used to put it. I have 2s. Gd. on a
horse myself, and if it runs half as fast as a dog
that galloped all over me this morning in its
craving to bite a motor-car, I will win.
Flag-Lieutenant Fisher, the kindly light of the
Poores, is due to sing his “Song of Thanksgiving.”
His bride-elect is a Miss Greene, second daughter
of affluent Greene, squatter parents, who at pre-
sent occupy Dr. Mackellar’s house at Rose Bay.
An elder sister of the prospective orange blossom-
tner is already married to a naval man. These
men-o’-war do capture the Australian golden girl,
even as the actress or chorus maiden snares the
gilded youth here or elsewhere.
A wedding at which History was present and
wore orange-blossom in its hair happened at St.
Philip’s, Sydney, on October 14, when Bayer
Spain, eldest son of the late Staunton Spain, of
Neutral Bay, espoused Estelle Maude, youngest
daughter of the Frederick Smiths of the same
seaside suburb. The bridegroom is a grandson of
William Spain, attorney and solicitor, who was
sent out from England in the late ’thirties to
adjust native land claims in Maori land. When
he had finished arguing with the brown men, he
came to Sydney and started to gather the nourish-
ing 6s. Bd. In 1850, whilst Inspector-General of
Police, he built the first large house at Neutral
Bay, and this was the family seat, or arm-
chair, for a while. He possessed an additional
resting-place on the old Legislative Council. The
bride’s family tree also has its roots in the ceme-
tery of the very far past, and the bones of a long
line of ancestors are buried beneath it.
Dr. and Mrs. Deamer, formerly of Maoriland,
to whom we owe the Dulcie Deamer genius
who wrote the “In the Beginning” stories
in the Lone Hand, have come to settle
in Sydney. Hunter’s Hill, where the mar-
ried Dulcie lives, has won them with its water-
frontages, and the Doctor’s brass plate will be hung
out to wink in the sunlight by-and-bye, after
its owner has had a long holiday. The writer
girl’s stories will be published presently in book
form by Gordon and Gotch.
A friend who is a chronic attendant at
marriages sends me this trifle
Wednesday, for the launching of his new yacht.
Culwulla 11. The “ requested ” were all men, and
the launcher was his Excellency Vice-Admiral Sir
Richard Poore. K.C.8., C.V.O. All this was set
out on a freak card, like the invitation cards sent
out by the Rockchoppers for their annual picnic
and dance. The second Culwulla is a very small
craft, not at all in proportion to the social size of
the potentate that launched it. From nose to
tail-tip its length is 30ft., and it is oft. 9in. across
the chest and 4ft. 6it>. deep. Mr. “Wally”
Marks himself is something just under 7ft. As
all the yacht clubs do as the Admiralty tells them,
dipping, curtseying and bowing like polite boats
on a chopp3’ sea, there was some warrant for
so big a man (socially) as the Admiral launching
even so tiny a boat as the Culwulla. It will be
the first N.S.W. competitor for the Northcote
Cup, and from Melbourne will go to Hobart to
take a sail in the January regatta that is to be run
on the Seas of Sleep that wash against the Isle of
Dreams.
Last week, with tea and some ceremony, the
cheque result of the late Hospice Ball was handed
to the Rev. Mother of the Hospice. It amounted
to £4GS clear of expenses, which was a healthy in-
crease above the figure achieved by previous balls
for the same object. In fact, the yearly Hospice
Ball gathers money as the sedentary stone is
supposed to gather moss. Mrs. J. C. Williamson
presented the cheque, and Mrs. Deerv and the
hon. secs., Mrs. Haves and Mrs. Kearney, and
the hon. treasurers, Mrs. Arthur, Mrs. McElhone
and Mrs. Snell, were amongst the 40 or so ladies
who gave her their moral support.
The girl with red or fair hair has had another
advantage thrust upon her besides that with
which she was born. The very latest chirrup of
Parisian fashion says that she must give her hair
a pinkish tinge. No dyes or bleaches are neces-
sary. She merely shampoos her foliage, dries it
in the sun and then dresses it over pink-red puffs.
A glimmer of rose color results, and the damsel
may increase her sirenity (that’s a good word—l
made it myself) by wearing hair and neck orna-
ments of coral pink.
Until aviation became an accomplished fact,
the wretched fashion designers were tearing
their thatch with grief because there was
nothing new under the sun. Now there is
something new. Within the last six months,
not only the original Dutchman, but the
Frenchman and the Englishman also have flown,
and with the bird man has come the ladybird.
And for the ladybird the designers are devising
colors and millinery.' The newest blue is “avia-
tion,” a misty tint as of a sky flecked with clouds.
And aviation piumage on hats consists of wide
wings that spread away from a centre ornament,
such as a bird’s head or a sun of semi-precious
stones.
Two new theatres already built on paper and
the birth of an Australian Dramatic Authors’
Society are the stirring events of Sydney’s cold-
lamb time—the dreary period of cold shoulder
that always follows hard upon the heel (not cow-
heel) of race week. A Melbourne syndicate is to
rear one edifice, and Mr. Francis Foy proposes
to build the other. English and American
actresses ought to be interested in the
two new theatre announcements. The imported
playeress will have two fresh stages from which
to look out for that affluent Australian male who
always wants to marry her and keep her a great
deal better than she was ever able to keep herself.
Quite a multitude of these imported ladies have
found a Permanent Clothes-Buyer apiece in this
country, and the species isn’t exhausted yet, though
some of it has got the tired feeling.
Asfor the bantling A. D. Authors’ Society, may
Providence look tenderly to it, as He is supposed
to do upon all young and unprotected things. Mr.
Hillhouse Taylor, that gentleman in Holy Orders
who adapted “Parsifal” for Miss T. Bfune’s
playing, convened the meeting, and amongst the
dramaturgists present were Mr. A. H. Adams, of
“ Tame Cat ” fame ; Mrs. Maleolmson Boult, who
has several plays in MS. ; Miss A. Haddon
Chambers and Mr. J. C. Lee, both of whom
have staged their work ; Miss Sumner Locke,
the girl that soothed “The Vicissitudes of
Vivienne”; Mr. “ Narranghi Boori ” Ryan, who
has lately launched a book of verse upon an
appreciative Commonwealth; and Mr. “ How-
MacDougall-Topped-the-Score ” Spencer. Artist
Souter and Mr. Caleb Porter, of the Asche-
B ray ton Company, had also somewhat to say of
plays, the writing and production thereof, the
two main objects that the members of the society
are now to worry into materialisation will be the
production of plays by Australian authors and
the ultimate establishment of a national theatre.
The Taylor in Holy Orders was appointed presi-
dent, Mrs. Boult secretary, and Mr. Spencer
treasurer. A collection was taken up (the rev.
playwright did not do the collecting), and the
treasurer had the satisfaction of Chubbing twenty
pounds sterling.
Reference to cold lamb reminds me that, when I
went into a leading city butcher’s shop to-day, a
woman, who looked as if she ran a full boarding-
house with one “general,” was at the moment
asking why a forequarter of sheep junior should
be Is. Gd., “seeing that yesterday 35,000 sheep
were sent back from the Homebush yards. Sheep
were that plentiful mutton ought to be down.”
The young gory man protested that if mutton
was not “down” with lamb at eighteenpence the
forequarter, he would like to know how down she
expected it to he. He corroborated the rejection
of the 35,000 bleaters, but told the Dotbebovs-
Hall-looking female that it was due to lack'of
slaughtermen to slay them. “Slaughtermen,
lady,” he said, “are getting 18s. and £1
a day, but even at that wage enough of them can’t
be got, so with not enough men to kill the mutton
it wouldn’t be any wonder if mutton was a bit more
uppish than it is.” The 18s. a day wage seemed
to stun the advocate of cheap meat. She collected
a large quantity of body and bones and brisket in
a dress-basket, and left the shop on flat, tired
feet.
A Pointer girl, back by the Ormuz, tells me
that the last play she saw before leaving London
was “ False Gods,” an ancient Egyptian drama
by a con temporary French dramatist. She thinks
its color scheme will influence the next fool
fashions. The robing—one can scarcely call it
frocking—is all in bleached, scorched, sunbaked
effects. Mrs. Patrick Campbell, who is in the
cast, wears drapery that looks as if it had once
been black, but had “run” in the wash. It has
gold-stencilling. The girl who in the play is
beloved by a young priest, and afterwards offered
a sacrifice to the Nile, is clad for a while in faded,
washed-out green, and, later, in a brick-red that
also looks as if it had been laundered violently
and dried in haste by one who feared neither god
nor man. Sand-tints are largely employed, and
the manner in which the Egyptian atmosphere is
retained makes the play a thirsty-looking and
wonderful production.
I saw a small, unhappy child on a ferry-boat the
other day. He was being haled out for a day in
the open bv his parents, accompanied by several
adult relations, and being the only infant in the
party he was having a wretched time. During
the 10 minutes I sat opposite the excursionists he
was bullied and badgered in an endless game of
identification, which was played like this
Father (pointing without apology to an immense,
smirking man): “Oo’s that?”
Child shakes his head.
Father (loudly): “That’s Uncle Jim! Now,’oo is it? ”
Child (wailing): “ Wanter go ’ome ! ”
Father (firmly): Yer carn't go ’ome! Tell me ’oo it
is ! ”
Child (muffling his sobs): “Uncle Jim!”
Father beams and, lifting the infant, turns him round
so that he faces the g-rinning and expectant relatives :
“ Now tell father ’oo that is ! ”
Child looks once in a hostile manner at the stout man
indicated and, averting his eyes, rattles his heels on the
edge of the seat.
Father (persuasively): “Be a good boy, now! ’Oo
is it ?”
Child (despairingly): “ Wanter go ’ome! ”
Mother (gently): " Don’t be naughty, Freddie ! Tell
father ’oo it is ! ”
Father (amiably): “ Don’t yer know ’oo it is?”
Child shakes his head vigorously.
Mother (prompting): “Uncle Albert. Say Uncle
Albert.”
Child (loudly): “I WON’T !”
Instant upheaval of whole party and general lamenta-
tions which drive the child to the verge of distraction.
Under threats of instant personal violence he is made to
mutter “ Uncle Albert! ” After which he receives con-
gratulations and endearments which he obviously resents.
I left as father was directing a stubby finger at
gran’ma and demanding to be informed who she
was. And even after that there were three more
aunts and a bosom friend of father’s fatuously
waiting to be identified before the group was
done. I perceived that the infant was about to
mutiny, and that there would probably be a
breach of the peace. So I left.
Yours affectionately.
AKENEHI.
Archdeacon Whitington, the ex-newspaper
man who now wears his gaiters in Hobart, told
the Perth Anglican Congress |;hat he approved of
a White Australia if it meant guarding racial
purity ; but he “ was afraid his Labor friends
meant a great deal more than that.’' Well, sup-
posing they do, what’s his Gaiters got to be
“afraid” of? Suppose, for instance, that the
Labor man objects to the Chow because of the
Chow’s low standard of living, and because he
doesn’t want the Chow’s competition to reduce
him and his family to the same standard, is that
anything for the Labor man to be ashamed of?
If Whitington’s “Labor friends” didn’t care a
hang whether their children were brought up in a
hovel or not, he might be afraid. But when they
want to shoo off competition that will de rade
them and their families, then he might very well
throw up his hat—even though, nowadays, it is an
Archdeacoti’s tile.
N.S.W. Lands and Mines mix their ser-
vices in a bewildering way. Various attempts
have been made to define their spheres, so that
the man who wants something from one will not
fool away time pulling the door-bell of the other ;
but all to no purpose. Minister Wood and mem-
ber Dooley enacted a comedy over the matter last
week. Dooley charged the Mines Department
with having departed from the path of justice in
certain dealings with the Caledonia Coal Co.
Wood leaped up in defence, and the storm
threatened to blow the roof off. Wood’s depart-
ment, it seemed, had been as stainless as the snow
on the roof of Kosciusko in its dealings with this
coal co. It courted investigation. It was pre-
pared to face the light of day. It scorned the
base aspersion of Dooley. In fact, it cast
Dooley off as if he were a serpent—and many
more things of the sort. Next night there were
explanations. The coal co.’s affair was in the
Lands, not the Mines. Minister Wood couldn’t
defend his dealings with the co., for he hadn’t
had any. He shouldn’t have scorned Dooley ;
the job of scorning Dooley rested with Minister
Moore. On the other hand, Dooley shouldn’t
have aimed the clod of aspersion at Wood ; it was
Moore’s clod. Dooley had been putting his
money on the wrong tree or barking up the wrong
horse or something. At the same time things are
so mixed that any particular kind of job may be
in the Lands Department to-day and in the Mines
to-morrow and in the Works the day after, and no
one can be expected to really know which office
his job is in.
Unexpected Socialistic statement in the
Anti-Sosh S. M. Herald’s “On the Land”
column (26/10/’O9): —
It is to be feared that our coastal farmers are somewhat
prejudiced against the administration of laws and regu-
lations which affect their personal interests. The doc-
trine of no State interference has been very sedulously
preached to them by clever city people, who have not
always been over-burdened with disinterested motives.
To assure the producers that they are much better quali-
fied to manage their own affairs," and to draw terrifying
word-pictures of ivhat will happen should the State'step
in, makes an excellent blind to cover the awkward fact
that it is the middleman who has something to fear from
measures designed to place an industry on a proper
footing.
Now, how on earth did the Herald come to print
the cold hard truth in that fashion ?
Kay : The notice-paper is the barometer
of the House of Reps. The breath in the
Reps, is at time of writing very, verv
stagnant, and the notice-paper is the dreamy
compilation of a tired hand. Nearly all the
front places on it are taken up by deadly
silly little items, while the big things linger down
below. The Financial Agreement 8,11 for
instance, is now lying water-logged thirteenth on
the list, and apparently hasn’t reached its limit of
descent. It is darkly suspected that the Fused
Government is giving it surreptitious shoves down
to the basement.
Thus Sandford, the ex-ironmaster of Lith
gow (N.S.W.), on his return from a visit to i* t( ' ( '
trade Britain :
There are 50,000 able-bodied men out of work in
alone. I never saw so many men unemployed beio ■
From all the iron and steel and shipbuilding' works can i
very depressing reports. The manager of the great wor .
at Barrow, where the Lusitania was built, told me tn.
work has never been so scarce. Mr. John Burns, "re. -
dent of the Local Government Board, in a recent speec ,
said that the total expenditure on all classes of pauper,
up to Lady Day last year was £14,740,000, and this .' eal
it would be £14,545,000. Then the lowest estimate of tne
cost of old-age pensions was £5,000,000, making a total o
£20,000,000 yearly for the workless. This is the great
problem for the legislators of England to solve, how to
ease the ratepayers by reducing the expenditure on all
classes of paupers, and to find work for the workless.
Varney Parkes, son of Hairy Par Ices,
wants to have a Parliamentary Committee ap-
pointed to inquire into the congested and semi-
paralysed condition of theN.S.W. State railways.
But it is safe to bet that the committee, if it is
appointed, will carefully keep its eye off the real,
difficulties, which are: "(1) That when you try to
crowd the traffic of over 3400 miles of railway and
the produce of over 310,000 square miles of
country on to one line, in order to bring it into
one city, there is bound to be congestion ; (2) that
to drag trade 300 miles further than it needs to go
is a process which must be a dead loss to some-
body, and the thing is liable to prove a dead loss
to everybody.
Lately the Victorian Department of Agri-
culture started the cultivation of an experimental
plot near Moe, Gippsland, and sent up a load of
superphosphate from Japan. South Australia
supplies a much better article quite as cheaply ;
but the importing craze is so bad with some Vic-
torian departments that they would rather pay
more for worse goods provided they aren’t Aus-
tralian.
THE “QUIET BUT PRETTY WEDDING.”
Oh ! the quiet but pretty wedding:!
Oh ! the numerous wedding: guest!
Oh ! the ladies who will keep shedding'
Tears, and never require a rest!
Oh ! the cruets and butter-dishes,
And the vases and photo-frames
With “ To Alice, with our best wishes,”
Written over the givers’ names !
Oh ! the Wedding March and satin !
Oh ! the carriages and the pairs !
' Oh ! the service that sounds like Latin !
And the curious crowd that stares !
Oh ! the laughs and the breakfast chatter !
Oh ! the toast and the lame reply,
Almost drowned by the joyous clatter
And the sobs of the girls who cry !
Oh ! the rice and confetti flying
And the lucky but ancient shoe !
Oh ! the maiden aunts bravely trying
Not to look very old and blue !
Oh ! the crunching of wheels on gravel
And the whoop of the last “ Hooray ! ”
As away from the home they travel,
lliat is the “ quiet but pretty way.”
Mr. Walter Marks “requested the pleasure”
of the presence of a big company, quite 200, last


3>
MS
&
a*
if.
&
yT*j
/A
22
?/a
C-O-B-R-A
Chu nder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Has his jokes
Like me and you,
As the ’Roo
Goes fast and faster,
HOW he smiles,
The old ringmaster 1
Chunder, kanga-
Roo and bear,
Playing circus
Ev’rywhere,
Realise that
“COBRA” lightens
Care and Boots. “The
Stuff That Brightens."


ALWAYS ORDER
Whisßy and
Schweppe
(See Red Seal on Every Bottle.)
DUNLOP
Carden
HOS
V-
fh
1 U IT
M
c~
Gives long service, not kink
or burst, and lasts for years.
Specify “DUNLOP” Brands, and i
you will get the Best Hose at a
reasonable price.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STOREKEEPERS
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide, Perth. Bri«bao?
atid Christchurch. N.Z
h
t».or Jj
■ ~
1
m
A
m
•A
v_%s£-,V.
V'
-'?
There's nothing hkt
our soft Para Rubber Dunlop
Heels for Comfort, Wear
and Finish. They absorb all
jarring, and outwear several
pairs of leather heels.
R HEELS
Outwear
All
Others.
Only Accept
Dunlop
Brandy
DUNLOP RUBBER CO?
f Aoclaide, P«rth.
Brisbane.
Cfcnetc hurts*. «.*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 1, 1909.
Mt Dear Yarrik,—
Do you Sydney people feel lonely? I suppose
tliere are no more than eight and a half people
walking your streets. Derby Day at Flemington
had practically all Sydney on the lawn and hold-
ing up the rails of the paddock. Most of Adelaide
added to the crowd, and everybody in Melbourne
was there, with the exception of a few children
who had been packed off to the Zoo in
the second-best motor. The Dudley countess
iooked quite fresh—she has been resting for the
fray with a notice of illness as a nice quiet barrier.
She wore white, as usual, and covered her white-
ness from the dust with the natural shantung silk
of the moment. The Carmichael lady looked real
fagged, and yet the Derby was only the beginning
of the races. She had had Caulfield and Henley
and all the preliminary frivols. There were
most of the feminine visitors (up to date) at the
two houses, and aides by the bucketful. A real
bouquet of Governors was present in grey racing
togs, but they escaped to the happier hunting
ground of the Bird Cage. There was furious
feeding under the vines, and at tea time every
table bulged out beyond the covering with a
plethora of guests. Mrs. £ £ Smith and daughter
Louise combined a birthday party and a coming-
home welcome with their usual afternoon-
tea spread. Mrs. Anderson had a warm welcome
at every step on the lawn. Most people could
only be recognised by dipping under their hats (in
a coquettish manner, like Corydon under his
Phyllis’ sun-bonnet) because of the vast size of the
said hats. Mrs. Kent Hughes went to the far
extreme—her hat was like Orlando’s cap, or an
Italian opera headgear—four square inches of
bebe straw and an aigrette.
Theatrical people were present in force. Mrs.
J. C. Williamson wore the most effective dress on
the lawn. George Reid, political comedian,
rolled heavily about with the Agar Wynnes.
Panto Miss Meredro looked 2ft. taller iii ordi-
nary womanly gear. Miss Dango peeped from
under a very shady hat. The races are corning
back to a boom-time bustiferiousness, though
women are dressing more sensibly on the who'hj.
Naice people seem to drift to the Sensibilities of
the tailor-made, though there are still dinner
frocks to be seen and trampled on.
The MeCullochs of Woodlands had a horrible
smash-up in their motor, going out to Flemington
on Saturday. There were half a thousand or so
motors rushing in the same direction. Things
were lively, but nothing worse than dust tran-
spired until one motorist—Mr. Hore—dared to be
so unconventional as to be running to the
city and away from the races. The Hore
car and the McCulloch vehicle met with a
wild smash on the train track. The McCulloch
chauff shot right through his window about 10ft.
in the air, and the others were tumbled pell-mell.
A. lamp-post splintered up like a match into five
pieces, and several other motors only managed to
escape destruction by running on to the footpath
in a heap. “Shaving” is becoming an art that
wid thin out the population soon, or turn half of
it into cripples.
The tactful Mr. Share is missed more than ever
these Cup times. Whilst he was Grand Vizier at
the G.-G. court, nothing went wrong. He didn’t
chum in with any particular provincial set or
issue invitations two days after the event. The
North cotes owed more than a little of their popu-
larity to the wisdom of their factotum. The
Government House comedy had no tragic lmp-
penings when Share was stage-manager. He
never put an ex-actress where a gaud Mayor’s
dame should have been, and so forth. But of the
Dudley entourage awful things are said by
slighted women in their wrath. Lord Dick is
amiable, of course, but even his redeeming virtue
has a provincial character. He got his ideas of
who’s who in the old days when Toorak and
Darling Point were the whole of Australia’s social
world. Now there’saCommonwealth and thingsare
different, but Richard hasn’t noticed the change.
And there are others of the entourage to whom
Australia is merely “colonial,” don’t you know.
They are not even very amiable in their air of
patronage. Some day the social crowd will arise
and agitate for home-grown aides who’ll make
themselves equally pleasant to the pushing
Toorak person and the Labor-member’s wife.
The naval and military ball on the night before
the Derby blazed like a fat heretic at the stake.
Nine o’clock was the hour, but long before then
the youth with a lust for dancing and the maiden
with a programme in her fair hand scrambled in
and filled the outer corridors. They did a strong
booking trade before their dignified elders arrived
importantly. At nine, with military precision of
march, a Noah’s-ark line of men paraded up
the room to the dais, and with a flank
movement faced an incoming tide of Governor.
The Dudley potentate came without his lady, who
was ill. The topmost Hoad’s ladv walked
with his genial Excellency. The Carmichaels
came, and the Tasmanian Barron Governor; also
two States’ supply of gaud Mayor and its
wife. Then The Set was arranged, and it pro-
gressed to a funereal anthem. Di Gilio was
orchestring, so the slowness must have been done
to order, for he doesn’t hang back as a rule,
it was noticed that the exalted sections of
The Set read the figures from cards half
concealed in the palms of their hands.
I’he memory still lives of the bungle achieved in
the official set at the gaud Mayor’s recent ball.
•Slowly and surely, therefore, “was this item
pranced, to give way later to more military
exuberance in a Two Step. Mrs. Isaacs managed
to sweep her white frock through the leading set,
despite the plethora of Governor folk and gaudy
mayordom. The Forrest dame and the Best ladv
and various other inter-State ImpOrtants wandered
in the outskirts looking on. The Carmichael lady
wore another square train—this time of white,
and she also wore a tired and worried look. Most
people are pretty badly rushed at race time, but
poor Governor folk have the worst of it, I think.
They seem to be more hurried than even dress-
makers and waiters. All the Stonington people
were in white—Mrs. Boyle, Miss Stuart Monteith
and Miss Talbot. Mrs. “ Haw-Ri wen ” looked
gloomily dark in steel grey. Mrs. Cartv Salmon,
with green beetles in her hair, danced with Poli-
tician Fuller. Commander Stanley backed up Mrs.
Ruthven. Captain Wemyss, R.N. (don’t forget
the R.N.) handed Mrs. Isaacs through the ordeal.
Mrs. M. H. R. Fuller put a blazing touch into the
set with a pink-red crepe dress, and scalloped
oysters in her dark hair. Mrs. General Hoad
hung gold embroidery, like a gorgeous sporran or
an altar-cloth, over her white satin gown, and
waved gold fringe aft. Our own martial Mayoress
helped Governor Barron through the ordeal.
The room waved in a very splendor of pennants,
with blood-colored roses dripping from the ceiling.
It was a glory ball, and every kind of uniform that
exists in military precincts here had an airing.
Tom Payne gave a tea-party on Friday, and
bumped the race-time tea-rushers for 2J hours
from the upper rooms of the Vienna, while irate
cats were being turned away from their four
o’clock saucer of milk because of the extra crowd in
the cafe below. Tom Payne’s 50-odd guests spread
themselves in the luxurious space of the whole
room, and got into cosy corners in the windows.
Ruth Lincoln was togged in dainty blue and
white, and Sister Tina was blue also. Essie Perrin
topped her golden locks with a black hat and
wore white serge. Helene Rose, with gold in her
black hat, had to explain at great length in a
corner to Mr. Railway Tait how it is she looks so
like daughter Winnie. Thorlev and Bantock
and Gourier helped to spread the strawberry, and
Harry Whiting found the view from the window
seats fascinating when shared with Miss
McMeiken and the Clegg girls. Mrs. Tait and
daughter Winnie and Mr. and Mrs. Cornish
helped the dissipation along, and Mr. Tom Payne
must congratulate himself on being as good a host
as he is a dancer.
In aid of the Women’s Hospital, another
Shakspeare entertainment, with Charlotte Hem-
ming at the head of it, drew a smart crowd to the
Masonic Hall the other Monday night. Singers
warbled divine William’s ditties; the recitations
were extracts from the Bard, and the dnalogues of
Charlotte Hemming and Sol Bloom were scenes
from “Macbeth” and “Much Ado.” For the
first-named effort Sol had disguised himself in an
Early English rig, but when he Benedicted to the
lady’s Beatrice they were both in modern evening
war-paint. The only non-Shakspearian items were
Albert Zelman’s violin solo and Rita Hope’s pair
of Chopin pieces on the piano. Among the
warblers Napoleon Boffard, after piping “Love
was once a Little Boy” in his tuneful little tenor,
ventured some humorous Franco-Australian
remarks that seemed to tickle the crowd and give
a sociable tone to the proceedings. Secretary
Wyatt and Mr. Severs, of the Women’s Hospi-
tal committee, did the honors when Melba looked
in. The Queen of Melody, who brought sister Mrs.
Patterson and a party of shes with her, left early.
She was in black, set off by strings of diamonds,
and a diamond comb decked her hair.
The amahtuah variety entertainment for
Charity’s dear sake—Charity always is expensive
—at St. Kilda was such a success that Mrs. Fred
Payne tried a similar affair on Derby night at her
own house. The lady went leagues ahead of the
previous show in elaborate arrangement—and
seven leagues ahead in the expensiveness of the
Charity. It cost half a guinea a head at the gate
before one’s rnotah could even sweep up the
drive, nevertheless motors by the hundred rushed
with glaring eyes round the curving lawns. The
Fred Payne’s place, Maritimo, is one of the most
beautiful of the Toorak-road houses —a grey
atone palace with acres of lawn and shrubberies
shut in by a high wall. Mrs. Payne was the
most charitable of all, as she let her place
be turned topsy-turvy for the fray. Her
peace-loving husband offered his lady a
blank cheque to cover her wildest dreams
of the sum she hoped to garner by
the shivoo, if she would only send the
marquee-men away. The court between the
drawing-room and the ballroom was marquee-ed
in. Then the distressful marquee continued in a
triplet oyer the lawns for supper and cloak rooms,
and awnings stretched beyond the conservatories.
The ballroom contained an orchestra which played
aloft in the gallery, and the beauteous youth of
Toorak indulged in theatricals on a mock stage. In
the Tents of the Too Late for the ballroom crush
an opposition stage was fixed, and amateur skirt
dancers whirled giddily behind the footlights
and the azaleas.
The Harry Howard Smiths made their first
important splash in the social sea at Prahran
Town Hall this week. The couple are not
particularly socially inclined themselves, but Mrs.
Harry’s sister, pretty Leura Laurence, was the
prime goddess in the machine. Her chief aiders
and abettors were the two McEvoy girls and
Nellie Rutherford, and this younger blood saw to
it that the ball was not merely for the fat and
comfortable friends of The Firm. Invitations
were plenteous. According to one man with ex-
perienced eyes, Mrs. Fred McEvoy carried off the
palm even amongst the younger Smart Set.
Evening dress is Mrs. Fred’s star opportunity to
shine, for her wide-eyed, little-girl air and her
severe Grecian coiffure enable her to wear the
most unusual gown to ad vantage.
Jim McEvoy struck Melbourne this week, just
in time for the gee-gee festivities. Of course,
business brought him Australia-wards ; business
has a habit of doing that with many people at the
beginning of November. Jim arrived alone, the
pleasures of foggy London being more than his
other half could forsake, even for the joy of
shaking hands with her native land. Melbourne
will remember Mrs. Jim as Evie Muret. one of
the original “Florodora” girls. She brought a
more or less exciting stage career to its logical
issue by her marriage with the wealthy squatter.
According to returned gadders, the lady is busv
sustaining a considerable frock reputation in the
Big Smoke, where, they say, she holds a little
more than her own, even against the “poor, scent-
less flowers ” whose life is dedicated todecoration,
and who constitute the Smart Set of the centre of
the world.
The Wrixons got in earlv with their extra
special quota to the gaiety of Horseville. It took
form as an At Home at State Parliament House,
and nothing, could have measured the stillness of
the hot evening like the fact that not a
breath of air puffed through those cavern-
ous corridors. The halls and passages there
are usually a cave of sighs and winds and
draughts ; but this day even the draughts were
too exhausted to blow. A chef d'amvre of the
Wrixons parties is alvvays a cinematograph.
They hit things up considerably thjs time bv
having Henley pictures (it was the Monday after
the event) hot off the reel. Squeals of delight
wobbled through, the fashionable crowd as folk
recognised themselves, for even the Verv Best
People have a mania for seeing themselves in
pictures and in tj'pe. The Carmichaels were at
the Wrixon party. The Countess had only just
arrived in Melbourne, and the other Governor
kind were oh their way.
Between the races and the big Guv’ment House
fixtures the Somebodies are falling over them-
selves to give lunches, teas, dinners and balls. It
is the giddiest Cup time for ye-ee-ars, and im-
portant Somebodies are living on drugs or some-
thing to keep them going in the whirl. When the
Somebodies are not smiling with belladonna
brilliance, the haggard look of their faces is awful.
The Queensland Groom lady gave a sensible
sort of tea out in the coolness of the Botanical
Gardens. She was spared the difficulty of cutting
her visiting list—there was room to spread.
The Best lady has gathered together her
inter-State visitors at a series of lunch
parties at Oratava. Mrs. Fred Payne, having
given a ball on Monday, utilised the tented
grounds round her ballroom for the Amateur
Dramatics on Saturday. Mrs. Reggie Power
gives a monster ball on Cup night, and the
Dudleys carefully select guests for Wednesday
night’s ball and a garden party next Tuesday—
when the races will be over. You can hear women
breathe “Thank the stars!” Men do get some
enjoyment out of race time; they see more than
the next cat’s dress. They drop their feminine
belongings after once motoring them out to
Flemington, and then wallow untrammelled
among the geegees.
Nance O’Ferrall, a busy little penwoman, has
been organising a charity entertainment at
Middle Brighton, at which salt suburb the family
roof-tree is rooted. Nance’s cousin, Alan McKail,
who is part proprietor of “Decoration,’’ the new-
est fad in shops here, garnished the hall, and was
responsible for the stage setting of a little farce,
“The Burglar,” played by brunette Nance and
a team of four girls. The color scheme was white,
scarlet and orange, and the whole business
showed the artist hand and the unerring eye.
Miss Bertha Collin was of the Burglar team, and
looked either a poem or a peach in an emerald
gown relieved with gold. Cyril McLelland, also
of “Decoration,” stage-managed, and oiled the
wheels so well that they all moved round without
so much as one protesting squeak.
Engagements are flying round even thus early
in the day. A Tasmanian damsel has captured a
R.N. man, but it is merely a skirmish so far—
they are not announcing the engagement yet.
Hobart girls not only arrest the R.N. men when
the ships go to the Derwent, but they come over
here and hunt them on the Melbourne girls’ own
preserves.
Ruby of the Dimples has surrendered at last.
The people who are lunching, teaing, dining and
partying together are all congratulating Pat
Osborne (of your side) on his engagement to Miss
Madden. The Chief Justice and his wife gave a
lunch at Cloyne, with the Chelmsfords as chief
guests, and the affair was officially announced.
So the Osbornes and the Maddens will be alli-
anced in two places. The Emmertons gave a
luncheon party next day, and announced officially
a fact that girl pals have known for some time—
the engagement of their chick, Mabel, to Norman
Tennis-champion Brookes.
The rustling breath of human wings passing
through Melbourne has wakened this city
strangely. In Europe people are already grow-
ing used to it—this new turn in the cycles of
evolution. The Fliers just wave their wdngs here
—they fly first in Sydney. Colin Defreis. the
chief man-bird, threatens a tragic possibility.
He says they may not fly in Melbourne at all. If
the Government will not give them Caulfield
Racecourse the fly will be “off.” Defreis says
he is not doing the bird act out this far just for his
health. Filthy lucre has some say in the game.
If the aero, is sent up from Flemington. a vast
multitude will see the show for miffin’. The Flat
at Flemington is public property and an entrance
fee cannot be charged. May the gods and Govern-
ment be gracious and let this man have his Caul-
field ! Is Melbourne to lose this chance of seeing
the Wonder of the centuries?
Skylark Defreis was in Melbourne months back
in advance of the airship. Some delay in its
arrival sent him rushing back to Paris to look
into things. He determined to make the double
trip less tedious, so turned it into a honeymoon.
He induced his fiancee to fly with him, and Mr.
and Mrs. Colin Defreis reached Melbourne in
time for the Cup.
The friends of Melbourne’s popular amateur
mummer, Rupert Conriok, are busy with a scheme
to give him a send-off before he leaves to try his
luck with Big Smoke managers. The friends
and admirers of the young man can either help to
applaud at his benefit or communicate with Mr.
Desmond Fitzgerald.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide:—
Our (excellencies are going to Marble Hill for the sum-
mer, after all. They will pack up the plate and the suite,
and leave the Residence to the mouse and the moth, and
the residential garden to the locust, at the end of
Novepiber. From this we sadly conclude that the Dudley
Exes, are going to seek other haunts this summer, instead
of decorating the South Australian landscape.
The Port Race Club’s October meeting clashed with the
Mayoral garden party, and they both collided with the
worst outbreak of dust and heat we have had for an age.
In consequence of these collisions the folk who ventured
down to the pretty course at Cheltenham left all their
best chiffons at home, and got a last wear out of any old
thing.
It has been a week of dust-storms and garden-parties.
You started for the garden-party, and behold ! you arrived
at the dust-storm. You went to look at the dust-storm,
and lo! you met the garden-party blowing up the
street. The first revel was the Mayoral walk-about at
Victoria Park, which was wearing its very best roses and
complexion. But by the time you had charged through
the flying boulders to get there you were too blind to
notice anything. Several thousand people risked their lives
and frocks, however, and the Mayor and Mrs. Mayfield stood
for two solid hours to say “ How do?—delighted. I’m sure.”
Mrs. Mayfield wore prunella silk and golden embroidery,
and a saxe-blue daughter helped her to bear up. Also theie
was a silken clad just-back-from-Britain niece present.
The Exes, with one daughter and two aides, looked in ;
Lady Bosanquet in cool, flowery muslin, and the maiden
in a lavender empire array and large millinery. One of
the frocks that didn’t deserve to be peppered with grime
and gravel was Mrs. Attorney-General Mitchell’s. It was
silver-tissue and black Spanish lace, with an embroidered
yoke of pink and blue. Of the younger population, singer
Meia Biiring was a vision of loveliness. She is a flower-
like maiden, and she wore a frock of flowery silk, and
flower-wreathed millinery.
Another day the Chief Justice Ways had some hundred
people at Montefiore, and for that occasion the weather
became chilly and weepful. The affair was given to aid
the British and Foreign Bible Society, of which the little
Chief is a potentate, and the guests were mostly
solemn-visaged, except those who were official, and they
looked cheerful. There was afternoon tea on the lawri
under the fine old trees that deck the garden. That is to
say, the tea was there, and the guests were there when
they were not crouching somewhere for shelter.
On Thursday the Bosanquets gave their first garden
party at the Residence, and the guests were cheered by
more dust and a wind that froze and was full of half-
bricks. Nobody knew what to wear, and the frocks
swayed between summery muslins and heavy winter
cloths. Lady Bosanquet and the twin daughters leaned
to the former—herself in cool blue and white grenadine,
The carrying of the second reading of the
Land Tax in the Victorian Legislative Assembly
shows that at last honest democratic thought is
getting a move on in the land of the Melbourne
Cup. Evidently D.C.L. Whisky has had its in-
spiring share in the proceedings, for under its
benign auspices any kind of intelligent thought
gets an extra waggle on. Thus is D.C.L. popularlv
known as the Whisky of the Wise.*
with plumes in a brown hat ; the girls mjtnped flora
other
day u desj?ned by Jlrs . Cruickshank and some
other folk to make money for that good charity, the
District Trained Nurses’ Association. It was a seven-
davs-in-one fair, each stall representing a day of tne
housekeeper’s i week : Monday .washing ■; Tuesday irorj
m I
cushion and the “ tidy ” were rarities in the land,
There is an outburst of opening ceremonies just
and especially on Saturday afternoons you can t walk
yards without tumbimg over th at is heing
thrust aiar with a flourish of tea and frocks. Lastbacur-
day sun J dry bowlin „ olubs he i d the floor. The G. A.
Jurys, who preside over the Glenelg Club, sent the cheer-
ing pasteboard over the land ; and the A. F. Browns, who
guard and guide the Adelaide Club, fed the hungry' rank
and fashion on the Adelaide Oval. .
The Anthon y Fothennghams’ pretty daughter Bessie
and fche j j Duncans , son Walter collaborated in
a commendable performance the other day at Chalmers
Church. Hymen played the part of the' villain ; four
charming maids—two Fotherinahams and two Duncans
in pale pink array, were also in the cost ; and minor
™ les were assigned to the heroine’s tall brother Max
J-
was a semi-private performance, so the audience was
not large, hut it was very frilly. There were Barr Smiths,
Mueckes, Corpes, Melroses, and troops of near relatives of
both stars.
Died, one day last week, 11. J. D. Munton, S. Aus-
tra,ia,s’ nlost inveterate yachtsman and gadder-about-a
chirpy, jaunty youngster of 69, who would have passed
any day of the week for 50, and on some days of the week
for 22. When he wasn’t yachting he was looking after
b ’ s wholesale fancy-goods business, and he made that an
r e *™f a " d '7XI7/.'''lTf,
times. He labelled his trips with the letters of tne
alph , bet ; a „d when he had got to Zhe stopped for want
0 f labelling material. And when he stopped he died,
Yours affectionately
JOHANNA.


ELECTROPLATE
BISCUIT BOXES, Decorated
China and Cut Glass, Electro-
plated or Silver Mounting-,
17s. (id., 205., 255., 30s. to 40s.
TEAPOTS. We are showing all the
newest designs in Teapots for after-
noon tea and table use. 17s. 6d., 205.,
TABLE CRUETS (5335), 4 and 0
Bottles, Richly Cut Glass, 275. 6d.,
355., 405., 50s.
m
ENTREE DISHES. Beaded Patterns,
Best Quality Electroplate, 355., 425. 6d.
Engraved, 575. 6d., 80s.
PH E goods purchased by the manager of our
Electroplate and Hardware Section, who
has just returned from a buying trip to England,
the Continent and America, form a most exquisite
exposition of artistic furnishing goods. Nothing
better has ever been seen in the Commonwealth,
and the value eclipses the best yet offered to the
Australian public.
I his is not mere advertising talk —vou are
cordially invited to come in and judge for yourself
—you are welcome at any time to come in and
inspect the Department without feeling under the
slightest sense of obligation to make a purchase.
You owe it to yourself to see this splendid
exhibition of choice productions from the home
of good plated-ware.
Send for our beautifully illustrated catalogue “B.”
HOT WATER KETTLES ON STAND.
We h.-ive an Extensive Range of Artistic
Patterns. 425., 505., 555., 605.; 70s.
BREAD PLATTERS AND KNIVES.
We have a Choice Collection of Patterns
with Louis, Gadroon and Shell Borders,
' from 255. to 305., 405., 50s.
Upon receipt of price any article will be sent,
carefully packed, to any part of the Commonwealth*
HOT WATER .TUGS. Some.
Exclusive Patterns just to hand,
255., 305., 355.
ICE BUCKETS, Highest Quality
Piute, in Useful Patterns, 205.,
’ 255.', 30s.
LUNCHEON CRUETS, Finest
Electroplated Frames, Cut Glass
Bottles, 12s. (Id., 155., 17s. (Id.,
20s. to 30s.
no
cs
ZH
GG FRAMES. Speciiiily Dainty
at terns, 4 and 6 Cups on Plain or
Embossed Stand, Complete with
Spoons, 355., 405., 455., 50s.
JAM SPOONS, Some Special Values in
these Goods, 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 10s., 15s.
CARVERS, in Cases, Stag Handles, 17s. 6d., 225. 6d., 255.
30s. ; Ivory Handles, 225. Gd.. 255., 355.
CHILDREN’S SETS, Suitable for Presentation,
12s. 6d„ 155., 17s. 6d. CHILDREN’S MUGS,
Prettily Engraved, 10s., 12s. Gd.. 15s.
CES w
Melbourne’s Leading
Department Store,
Opposite FLINDERS STREET STATION.


Rexona Cured Ringworms.
My little girl suffered from ringworms for over
two months,” writes Mrs. C. L. Gilder, of 18
Addison Road, Marriekville, N.S.W. “I used
Rexona on them, and they were cured in a few
days.” Price Is. (id. and 3s.*
Walter Bradley & Co.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margarkt Strkkt.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining 1 Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed 'by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing' preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will b ■ sent post paid to anv
address upon receipt of price—3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDQWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0,, SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM IK
HIS WHOLE SYSTEM.
»
Every Joint Racked Night and
Day with Pain*
«
This Man was Marvellously Cured
and Gives his Experience for
the Benefit of Other
Sufferers.
The Weak point about most treatments for rheu-
matism is that they merely relieve the pain for
the time ; they don’t cure permanently. The
strong point about the treatment with Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills is that they remove the
cause of the trouble from the system. That’s why
they cure permanently. Physicians do not all
agree abput the cause of rheumatism, but many of
the highest hold that it is caused by acid in the
blood, and the wonderful cures effected by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills support this view. These
pills .actually make new blood, strengthen the
organs of the body, so that they throw off the
rheumatic impurities, _ and the patient becomes
well. Liniments and lotions can’t reach the root
of the trouble in the blood—that’s why they fail.
Here is an account of a striking cure of rheu-
matism.
“I had an attack of rheumatic fever, and after
that I caught a chill,” said Mr. Thos. Reid, c/o
Mrs. E. M. Thomas, Semaphore Road, Glanville,
Port Adelaide, S.A. “I was leaning against a
hot boiler and caught cold after. I noticed the
rheumatism first in the ankles, then it spread to
my knees, then to my arms, and finally it went right
through me. I was in bed 12 weeks, and off
work for much more. The pain was agonising, I
could not raise my arms up. All my back and
shoulders were affected. I didn’t like anyone
near me. If I moved I’d scream out with the
agony. My hands were not affected, fortunately.
I could not eat with such pain in my system and 1
began to fall away. The pressure of the bed
clothes was too much for me, and yet I’d be so
weak and the arms so stiff I couldn’t push even
the sheet off by myself. I had a grinding, gnawing
pain in every muscle, and when I moved the pain
would simply rack me. The pain was always
worse from five in the morning, a real jumping
pain, and it was impossible to close an eye. I
dare not press the affected parts, I’d feel the least
touch. I lived on beef tea and bread and milk
and such like. I couldn’t eat anything else. I
fell away and lost nearly a stone in weight. My
only relief was to lie absolutely still. If I crooked
a finger, I’d feel a pain running through my
shoulder and down my arm. Every joint seemed
creaky and rusty. All these weeks I was in
bed practically helpless, and the pain never
absent for more than a couple of minutes or so at
a time, except when I’d fall off to sleep,exhausted.
I’d wake up groaning with the pain running
through me. At last I decided to give Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills a trial, and I’m glad to say
they completely cured me. Before I’d finished
three boxes I was able to get out of bed and move
my limbs ; in fact, nearly all the pain had gone—
only a little stiffness and soreness remained. I took
three boxes more, though I hardly needed the last,
and they drove every ache out and I was able to go
back to work. I improved in every way. I
regained all my previous weight and color. Every
muscle by degrees had become supple and springy.
After the agonies I suffered I am most grateful
for my cure, and will give particulars to anyone
who likes to ask or call to see me.”
The price is 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if you have trouble in getting them send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney, and
they will be sent post free by return mail.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
u
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
BENYER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opji- 11 'inter St.)
Also at Melbourne.
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
BEFORE THE ALTAR OF PAROCHIALISM.
Wi th a fatuit .v that surpasses comprehension, Mr.
McGowen would rend the Labor movement in order to
hack the Premiers up.— The amazed Sydney Worker on
the financial agreement.
THE DISCIPLE OF CAPITAL: “Behold!!”
THE DISCIPLE OF LIBERTY : “Oh, Groggy, Groggy!
You may trample out my bleeding ’art,
bruise, baiter and starve my family, if you
will; yet when I think of Sydney an’ our
beu-u-u-u-utiful ’arbor my arm is powerless
against thee!”
State Premier Wade held forth last Satur-
day at Gran ville (N.S. W.) on his greatly improved
relations with the Federal Government.. But seeing
that Deakiri does whatever Wade tells him, it is
difficult to see how the two men could fail to get on
well. Wade simply says, “I want this,” and
Deakin says, “ Suttinly; have anything you
like,” and the two get along first-rate"
The first vote given in the Victorian
Assembly by Snowball, the new and violently
Orange member for Brighton, was against Premier
Murray’s progressive land-tax. The Yellow Pup
person is always the same old incurable Tory, no
matter how he may try to smudge himself over
with the varnish of democratic sentiment. And
like every other Tory he doesn’t know that he is a
Tory.
The idea of a joint scheme of municipal
lighting in Melbourne is now in the hands of the
undertaker. The South Melbourne Council,
which gave birth to the project, was the very first
to sit on the infant’s chest. All the time that that
council was braying about municipal control, it
was seemingly negotiating with P. Enterprise for
a new seven years’ lighting contract; and as that
contract was subsequently arranged, the council
was apparently only bluffing all the while. Evi-
dently P. Enterprise has still the most powerful
hold on the average municipal ear, despite much
gesticulation to the contrary.
Defence Minister Cook announces that
bayonets have been ordered abroad “ because they
cannot yet be made in Australia.” Presumably
Cook didn’t take the trouble to inquire whether
they could be made here or not, but just went on
the usual assumption of his class that the Aus-
tralian can’t make anything. There is many a
bush blacksmith who could turn out a first-class
bayonet if Cook wasn’t too tired and hostile to
give the order. The bush blacksmith is an in-
genious cuss. This writer went many years ago to
one who had his place of business under a bit of
bark supported on four poles, and asked him if he
could make a forest devil—a rather intricate bit of
mechanism which pulls down trees —and he said
“ Yep ” or something like that, and just made it.
From the Old Soldier :
At last Joe Cook is out of his suspense, and might, if
he understood the game, know what to expect in the way
of advice. Kitchener is not coming by the regular
P. and O. globe-trotter’s road to do the round of the
capitals, to get dined and wined, and to be adulated. He
will look in first through the back door at Port Darwin,
and then go on to the other back door at Thursday Island,
and so round the Queensland coast to Gladstone, where
he will land finally. It is said that his aide, Colonel Kirk-
patrick, will do the round of the capitals to pick up the
points worth having, and communicate the results when
he joins his chief at Gladstone. There are clearly not
going to be many frills about the business. Kitchener is
coming to make the Dea-Cook combination understand
exactly what John Bull wants, and not to make pretty
speeches, or listen with a fatuous smile to gush about the
“Empiah.” It is apt to he overlooked nowadays that
Kitchener was originally an engineer, and first made a
reputation in connection with the works about the
Thames and Medway. He understands how a coastought
to be defended, and he is beginning with Port Darwin,
which has no means of defence at all, and Thursday
Island, with its garrison of 60 men, without a place in
which they could defend themselves for an hour against
a rush of Jap coolies. Finally, he is to land in Port
Curtis, the finest harbor on that coast, but without a
soldier or a gun to hold it against the feeblest enemy.
The questioii is not what will Kitchener say. He mavs.iy
little ; but his report is likely to make Cook wish he were
dead.
“Phidias”: Bulletin (30/9/’O9) makes
some comments anent land valuations in
the Meredith Shire (Vic.). For
years that shire has tried to exist on a
Is. rate and cadgings from the Gov-
ernment. The local council has con-
sisted mostly of Fat, and has never
yet been able to get above that paltry
rate. A while ago, the then shire
secretary grew sick of his job, and
cheerfully cleared out from a place
where they never had any. money.
His successor was mild-mannered,
but energetic, and he was so shocked
when he had a good look at the
shire that he determined to get a move
on. In his monthly report he dis-
tressed the council horribly by saying
that long neglect had rendered the
roads so appalling that nothing less
than a rate of 2s. 6d. would do.
Half a crown ! —those councillors just
doubled up like concertinas, and it
was only on the easting vote of the
chairman that the report was received
at all. But the recommendations of
the engineer were not adopted. Fat
simply leaned back in the same old
way and said how hard it would be
on the poor settler if he had to pay
np any more. Then he began to weep
at the thought of such cruelty. The
“ poor settler ” certainly had "a little
revenge on Fat at the next elections,
for he shot one of the worst of him
clean out of the council. But Mere-
dith still has the old Is. rate.
The Chinaman has boundless
faith in the power of the local man-
darin. The other day one of him
called at the office of the Millicent District
Council and desired to take out a boy-shooting
license. He intended to achieve the sudden death
of the kids who stole Lis water-melons.
“ Chiffon ” writes :
Victoria’s Drapery Trade Wages Board, in its just pub-
lished determination, makes a new departure by fixing
the same wages for women as for men in many deparf-
nfents. Of the males, senior assistants are to get 50s. per
week of 50 hours ; packers, porters, storemen, 425. 6d. ;
juniors from 7s. 6d. at 15 years of age to 435. at 22. As
to women, in the dress, Manchester, drapery, furnishing
and prints departments the wages are the same as for
men; while in other branches—laces, silks, hosiery,
underclothing, etc.—girls of 15 are to be paid ss. a week’
while women of 23 years and upwards are to get 275. 6d.
Overtime is to be paid for at time and a half plus Is. for
tea money ; also all public holidays are to cost the boss
timje and a half. How on earth the employers’ delegates,
especially “ the Lane ” delegates, were persuaded to fix
women’s wages in the dress, prints, etc., departments as
high as the men’s, Heaven knows. One result will be that
more men will be employed, and these more men will thus
be able to marry more women and bring up more
children in more homes of their own.
It is the commercial traveller who finds the
many changes of climate and water trying. The ex-
perience of Mr. Chas. G. Chapman, who represents
a large Brisbane concern, is not the exception.
He had been troubled for years with chronic
diarrhoea, and was especially bad when in North
Queensland. On one of his trips a fellow traveller
recommended him to try Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy, which he did, and
what he has to say is most interesting I pro-
cured a bottle the first opportunity, and experi-
enced great relief after taking a few doses, and
was cured before the bottle was finished. I have
not been troubled since, and wish to recommend
this wonderful medicine to anyone suffering from
the same complaint.”*
THE IRONY OF IT.
cadet : “ What's yours , Major? A gingerbeer ?”
Concerning sudden Ministries :
In the matter of suddenness Earle’s Tasmanian Minis-
try is in a flying gang of three. Andy Dawson, of
Queensland, lasted six days ; arid Sudden Solomon, of S.
Ans., seven. Yet Andy Dawson’s little lot,included
Fisher, who has since been reckoned a very good Prime
Minister, and Kidston ; so the crowd didn’t deserve that
much contempt. Up to now Tasmania hasn’t been noted
for the suddenness of its politics. The Speck really hasn’t
bothered to throw out a Ministry in haste ; the only bad
thing a Ministry could do was something democratic, and
the House of Dodery would see to that. So the Ministry
didn’t matter much. Before it learned to trust Dodery
Tasmania did move around a bit,; in its first two years of
Constitutional Government it saw four ..Cabinets—includ-
ing the one and only Smith Ministry that'Australia has ever
had. But N.S.W.' equalled that record and Westralia heat
it. Robertson, Parkes, Robertson again, and then Farnell
were all Premiers of N.S.W. in 1877; and in Westralia
Bigjohn Forrest, Throssell, Leake, Morgans, and then
Leake again were all It inside 12 months. Morgans,
the mining man,, holds the Westralian record ; he
struck his patch and lost it again inside five weeks.
Cowper, who was Ma’s second Premier, only lasted five
weeks. The nearest approach to that in swiftness was
George Dibbs’ seven weeks. That was his second
Ministry; his first ran to 10 weeks,‘full of change and
excitement —portfolios were swapped every other day or
so. S. Australia has been the swift State. Solomon’s
seven days is in the squad with Earle’s and Dawson’s;
but, besides Solomon’s, S. Australia has had the Water-
house nine-day Ministry, the Baker 10-da.v, the Dutton
11-day, the Ayers 12-day, the Strangways 18-day, the Hart
18-day, and the Ayers 19-day ; and the burden of keeping
the front path to Government House in repair once reduced
the province so close to bankruptcy that, only Broken
Hill saved it. Ayers was Premier four times; and the
four spells didn’t amount to four months among them.
Pouring out Ministries grew into inch a habit in S. Aus.
that when it got hold of Boucauf, one of the three biggest
men it has ever produced, it poured him out with the rest
in 10 weeks.
China, it is reported, has had its first
Parliamentary election-not an election for an
imperial or all-Chow Parliament, but °
provincial Assemblies which are to develop
later into a Legislature which will speak f
tli6 whole Vegetable-John
Empire. So Bull s cares in
India increase and multi-
ply. When Asiatic
Turkey, Persia. Asiatic
Russia (including: Rus-
sian Tartary), Japan
and China all acquire
Parliaments of a sort
with the complete ap-
proval and applause
of John Bull, the
heavy Parliamentary
father of the world,
how can 1 ndiabe refused
a Parliament? And yet
]i ( ,w can it he granted a
Parliament without the
loss of the British suprein-
acy ? If anyone can devise
a plan to give complete self-
government to a very large
nation, and yet keep it in abso-
lute s ibjection to a small nation, Lull
would he glad to hear from that per-
son. Egypt is another problem : Brit on
hoorays for the Turkish Parliament, and
the only part of the Turkish dominions
which hasn’t got a Parliament is the
one occupied by Bull, the man who is
in favor of Parliaments everywhere ex-
cept in his own nigger dominions. Bull, in fact,
is in a fair way to be the only unparliamentary
despot left on this earth.
The secret of its success is inside the covers
—The Lone Hand.*
DO IT NOW!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is no use in putting rifles into the. hands of men
to fight an enemy if they cannot shoot straight. It
would be only blowing away powder and shot and doing
no good whatever. — State Treasurer Waddell at the
National Rifle Association’s banquet, October 16, WOO.
Paste within your cap or cadey, son,
The chorus to this song ;
Paint it on the neighbors’ fences big and high.
If you do not learn it thoroughly anil practise at it long,
The Yellow Man will kill you by-and-bye.
Get guns
By the tons—
That’s the first word of my warning-
Get up early in the morning,
And practise for the row.
Drill, drill ;
Learn to kill—
For you’ll have to kill or perish—
So, for those you love and cherish,
Learn to sight your service rifle, and for God’s sake do
it now ! •
You’d be looking pale, my sonny.
If they sent you to the front
With a weapon you had never learned to hold ;
When you saw your brothers falling and you heard
their dying grunt,
You’d be wailing that for mutton you’d been sold.
You’d call on God despairingly
To stop the pouring hell ;
You’d curse the days and years you speqt in play.
The pounding blood w'ould beat for you a nation’s
dying knell —
That’s if you were the man who could not slay.
So—
Get guns
By tlie tons—
That’s the last word of my warning—
Get up early in the morning
Sure and steady for the row.
Lie still ;
Shoot to kill—
For you’ll have to kill or perish ;
So, for those you love and cherish,
Learn to sight your service rifle, and for God’s sake do it
now I
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
A PREPOSTEROUS SUGGESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Minister of Home Affairs was interviewed regard-
ing Senator DeLargie’s proposal that the Federal capital
site should be fixed by a referendum. Mr. Fuller inti-
mated that he was opposed to the proposal. “It would
not,” he said, “ be fair at this stage to refer the question
to the peopK I think Parliament should settle it, as
contemplated by the Constitution. I don’t think the
people can possibly have the same knowledge of the
different sites as members have.”— News item.
A referendum, did you say ? Go to
The deuce, my man ! You’re talking through your
hat!
A referendum ! Scandalous ! Pooh-pooh !
I mean to settle, this off my own bat!
When persons talk kuch rot they make me tired,
What’s it to do with them. I’d like to know?
’Tis obvious such twaddle is inspired
By motives mean, ignoble, base and low !
The people sir, don’t know what they require,
To find it out they must refer to us.
I tell you it provokes my latent ire
To hear the rabble making such a fuss.
I beg your pardon ? What is that you say ?
“The people ought to be allowed to judge
The matter for themselves.” You think so, eh 1
My answer to your argument is “ Fudge 1 ”
I think your proposition most absurd ;
The mob’s intelligence you’ve overrated.
It is preposterous ! I pledge my word
That such a thing was never contemplated !
victoria.
HARRISON OWEN.


An impression of the
STEINWAY PIANO
The Perfection of Piano Con-
struction Has never been
exemplified so wonderfully as in
THE STEINWAY.
THE STEIN WAY is an instrument that has won its way into the
heart of the musical world. Our greatest living musicians pay it
the highest compliments, while in the past it was a delight to
such men as Liszt, Wagner and Rubinstein, who have left behind them
testimonials of its rare qualities. To-day the models are, if possible,
better than ever. They possess that full, deep, rich tone that thrills the
hearer; at the same time, the exquisite sympathetic singing quality that
has gained them so much of their artistic renown. The STEINWAY
is an instrument that makes a direct and instantaneous appeal to all
who hear it. Though we are business men, and to sell these instruments
is part of our vocation, still underlying this there is a strong sentimental
feeling that we are helping forward all that is beautiful in music when
we submit a STEIN WAY Piano.
We asK you to allow us the privilege of meeting
you in our Showrooms just to discuss a Steinway.
Illustrated Catalogue Free on Application.
Pianos sold for Cash, or Easy Terms arranged.
Old Instruments taken in Part Payment.
Sole Agents s
NICHOLSON & Co. Ltd.
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding' day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, yon have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the sßin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
EDUCATION
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence C?M
Can Train You —B^Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU ? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—•
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONSI
Stott's Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams. :
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING- TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
J 72 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
Brookman’s Chambers, GRENFELL STREEI, ADELAIDE, S.A.
AT LAST
A Standard Typewriter at a Reasonable Price.
V:
«■
M ■
V. ..-I
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable
Keyboard.
Unlimited Speed.
Two-Color Ribbon.
Steel Type.
Powerful Manifolder.
Light Touch.
Portable.
Built for Hard Work.
Warranted for two years.
Weight i2lb.
THE BRITON
NEW MODEL NEW OFFER.
This typewriter is too well known to need lengthy description. It is the
ideal writing machine. Simple, never gets out of order, even with the
heaviest work. It will take as many carbon copies as you require, and will
cut a perfect stencil. You can pay more money for your typewriter, but
you cannot buy more real honest typewriter value.
We ship this machine, charges prepaid, to any town in Australasia, give
you ten days’ free trial, warrant it for two years. When you have tried
it, remit to us 10s., and it is yours. If you want to pay in instalments
we charge 10s. extra.
Write to-day, giving references, and ask us to ship a BRITON to you
for 10 days’ free trial.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
Cor. GEORGE and WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
17 Queen St., Melbourne; 364 Queen St., Brisbane; 131 King William
St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Hobart; 17 Grey St., Wellington, R.Z.


KALYDOR
FOR * SKI
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
WORMS IN CHILDREN.
A Very Prevalent Complaint.
In very young children much of the irritation
and fretfulness is often due to the presence of
worms. Restlessness, fitfulness, sudden starts and
wetting the bed during sleep, hardness and ful-
ness of the belly, irregular movements of the
bowels, excessive secretions of saliva from the
mouth, are invariably indications of the irritation
caused by worms.
In older children the same symptoms are pre-
sent, but more distinctly defined. Grinding of the
teeth, violent movements of the legs and arms,
and undue flow of saliva which causes frequent
efforts to swallow. The bowels are irregular,
The breath is usually foul, and the child is
languid and peevish. The tongue preternatu-
rally red, or alternately red and covered
with a white slimy mucus. A short, dry
cough; emaciation, slow fever, irregular pulse,
and sometimes convulsions. Loss of appetite fre-
quently alternates with a craving for food. In-
deed, the latter symptom is most pronounced in
many cases, and many mothers have experienced
the insatiable appetites of their children without
realising the cause.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
contain specific properties which destroy the
worms but cause no injury to the stomach or
bowels, and do not weaken the system. They are
prepared in the form of a confection or lolly,
having no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on the
contrary, inspire children to take them as they
would an ordinary lozenge. Obtainable at all
chemists and stores. Price, Is. 6d. (6 boxes
Bs. 6d.), or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney, on receipt of remit-
tance.'*'
SlNim
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
for Inventors’ Guide. Established 18/7.
Write us
ALE & LA<a€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES
NO PRESERVATIVES.
& CO., PERTH, KALGOQRUE and CQOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The V.R.C. Derby, although highly satisfac-
tory in its result from a sporting point of view, was not
more rejoiced over by punters in general than the victory
of the other odds-on favorite—Alawa—for the Melbourne
Stakes. Hoping against hope, the thousands of small
investors had mostly put their silver or their quid on
Danilo, or on one of the outsiders; and when the hot
favorite came home half a dozen lengths ahead of the
field there was not much cheering. Prince Foote’s vic-
tory benefited a few plungers, and left the great army of
losers with no cause for complaint, yet it didn’t convince
them that they had been half so foolish in not backing
the winner as in accepting the absurdly short price of 4
or 5 to 1 about Danilo.
The race was run in the way calculated to
ensure the victory (bar accidents) of the best horse.
Lord Foote—stable companion of the crack —rushed to
the front as soon as possible, and made the pace for more
than a mile and a quarter. With a lead of 20 lengths, re-
duced to about six lengths as he got fairly into the
straight, the pacemaker was going so well that only, the
nearest of his pursuers could hope to catch him. Prince
Foote forged his way to the front of the pursuing
party, duly caught the leader, and passed him easily.
Danilo, the next in pursuit, barely succeeded in finishing
second. He beat the pacemaker by a head or so. The
rest were nowhere. Lady San and By Play were the least
utterlv defeated of the lot that never got within five yards
of Prince Foote’s tail. The time (2min. 37sec.) has been
beaten by three previous Derby winners. Alawa in 1908
put up a record of 3min. 33Jsec.' But the course on Satur-
day was comparatively soft, and, with one exception, the
times for all the events were slower than on the same day
last year.
The Melbourne Stakes, which has many times
proved a guide to the Cup, seemed to silence the pre-
tensions of Post Town, Pendil, Lord Nolan, Artillerie,
Nushka, and others that finished far behind Alawa and
Trafalgar. Hyman broke down, after making a bold
show, but of the lot for whom no excuse could be made,
Trafalgar alone appeared able to make anything of a
race with Alawa. The Ballarat horse went to the
front when “Bobby” Lewis shook him up, and
stayed there, winning by lj lengths or more. Neither
Trafalgar nor the speedy son of Malster was at
all distressed after the lj-mile go, but whereas Tra-
falgar had the appearance of being trained to the
hour, the more lusty Alawa looked still a bit “jolly”
and open to further improvement. In running first and
second for the Stakes (which has £lOOO added to the
“ pool ” nowadays) the two four-year-olds vindicated the
character of “form." It was “form’s” day out. The
Maribyrnong Stakes,went to the winner of the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate. The A.J.C. Derby winner won the
V.R.C. blue ribbon ; and the previous blue-ribbon hero
captured the Melbourne Stakes, beating the winner of last
Sydney Cup. The one unsatisfactory performer was
Pendtl. Considering that Pendil won races over eight
and 10 furlongs last November, and had not proved him-
self a greater “glutton for distance” than Trafalgar,
there was no satisfactory reason why he should have been
“ fiowhere ” all the time in the Stakes gallop.
Malster’s reputation as a sire is still on the up
grade. The three placed horses in the Maribyrnong
Plate were of his begetting. Barm, the winner of the
Maiden Plate on Saturday, is a Malster. Alawa, by
Malster—Crossfire, scored the third win for the family
during the afternoon.
*•»■*■*
Justus this issue goes to press, word comes that
the 1909 Melbourne Cup jostle ended with Prince Foote
first, followed by Alawa and Aberdeen in that order. And
Sydney, Melbourne and a thousand other places are filled
with the blatant yells of the people who “told ye’so!”
Yet a horse with a horrible name like Prince Foote has no
earthly' right to win a Cup. If this sort of thing is
allowed the great race may yet be won by an animal
called King Leg or the Duke of Stomach. There should
be some sense in names. And, after all, it is ques-
tionable if any horse ever wins the Cup except Patrick
Moses the bookmaker.
* * * *
“0.K.”: If the two “Bills” who fought for
the “championship of Australia,” t’other night, were
both of them bent on mischief from the outset their ex-
hibition was lamentably stupid. If they were fighting
with blood in one eye and a friendly smile in the other,
their performance had no championship spirit in it. In
either case the long-drawn-out display of muscular
exertion merited profound disrespect. Rumor gave it
that the relations between the two men had been
suspiciously fraternal before the event, and the tactics of
the management were not calculated to dispel scepticism
re the genuineness of the “ go.” However, champion
Lang did actually knock out ex-champion Squires in the
20th round, so one may say of a tiresome affair that all
was square which ended squarely.
Timed to begin at 8.30 sharp, the fight was de-
layed until 9 o’clock, when nervous Lang, white as the
proverbial sheet, started to meet the half-hearted on-
slaughts of the other Bill. Brown Squires showed some
of his old eagerness and alertness, whilst pallid Lang was
more than ever unaggressive and unhandy. In Lang
there was no “ devil ” ; in the attack of Squires there was
no craft. The former stood up to it in a somewhat more
Johnsonian manner than of yore. He didn’t flinch so
timorously as he did in the days before the Jack nigger
gave him object-lessons in uprightness. On the
other hand, Squires was less of a croucher
than he used to be, and some of his whacks
upon Lang’s battered nose came fairly straight from the
shoulder. Nevertheless he crouched a good deal, and
ducked in a wild manner on the rare occasions when Lang
went for him viciously'. He swiped upwards with his
eyes looking the other way. Lang appeared to shut his
eyes every time he was bustled into hitting in self-defence.
Both men missed their best opportunities—Squires be-
cause he wasn’t in a good position for seeing them ; Lang
because he couldn’t or wouldn’t see them, or was too
slow' with his hands. In the 7th round Squires got one
on the chin that dazed him and left him open to be
knocked out, but Lang the Unready allowed the oppor-
tunity to pass. The fight had proceeded to the 16th round
without any sort of a fall. Then Lang went down on his
knees for two or three seconds, both men being obviously
the worse for wear. Thus far the honors of a highly un-
convincing contest w-ere with Squires. He was leading-
on points and endeavoring to get as much rest as possible
in the clinches. It w-as always Lang who seemed most
readv to emerge from a quiescent tangle, and sometimes
he evinced a tendency to in-fighting, both of the kidney-
punching and other jabberieties, whereof Tahmy Burns
was reckoned a mighty exponent until Johnson met him.
Neither of these local champions seemed to know much.
Squires in a clinch was for ever turning and winking his
eye at Tahmy, who was signalling him instructions from
his corner. But if Tahmy gave him the office to jab his
opponent at close quarters, Squires didn’t profit (or lose)
by his instructions.
Spectators on the platform naturally surmised
that Squires had pinned his faith to “points,” whilst
Lang was hoping only for a knock-out. The younger
man was still the stronger, but he had spent a lot of his
vigor and seemed hardly capable of delivering a well-
directed blow with winning force. In the 17th and 18th
rounds he had the best of it for the reason that Squires
could no longer put him to confusion. Nevertheless he
slipped again in the 18th. He was tired. His legs were
not sufficiently quick to preserve his equilibrium. Tahmy
was now doping Squires in his corner with oxygen ; or
rather an operator was putting a rubber mask over
brown Bill’s face and giving him gas from a cylinder,
whilst Tahmy assumed the wise expression of gasman-
in-chief. The stimulant seemed to have a reviving effect
on Squires for the first minute of the 19th round, though
it didn’t inspire him to lay his adversary low. A com-
petent middleweight might then have stepped into the
ring and knocked them both out. Finally, in the last
round Lang biffed Squires twice on the body, and man-
aged to uppercut him on the jaw, whereat the weary
veteran fell face downwards. His bald patch was turned
to the roof whilst the timekeeper counted him out, and
for some seconds afterwards. Apparently the brown man
was completely done, as every oxygenised boxer ought to
be. Squires had hardly deserved to lose, if Lang was try-
ing his best to win at every stage of the performance.
Yet he had hardlv deserved not to lose. As vaunted pro-
fessors of stoushing art neither Bill was worthy of the
least laudation. What should be said of the thousands
who paid good money to see two Bills lose their presence
of mind for an hour and twenty minutes?
* * * *
Bill Squires is back into the fighting game pro-
perly now, and is seeking another scrap with Lang,
which he will probablv get. It was said before his recent
scrap that he had recovered his lost punch ; but when
the dust cleared away it was found t > be Lang’s punch he
had got. On the 15th of this month he is to meet Mike
Williams, and as likely as not will get another drubbing,
just to harden him for his meeting with old Bob Fitz-
simmons, who is being brought out by the Mclntosh. In
the meantime, it is up to Lang to do something if he is
ever to figure in the Yankee ring as a champion. His
showing against Squires during the last meeting was far
from encouraging. *
Brillo Campbell, a Riverina product who has
walked through the bush boxers, and on whom promoters
were beginning to build great expectations, struck his
first disaster at Ballarat the other night, when he hit up
against Jo Lee, the S’African welter, whose name should
be Lean, as he is certainly the skinniest pug in the busi-
ness. S’African pugs have been doing well of late in
Australia, and Lee kept the flag flying. The fight
went to prove that Brillo of the Riverina is a hard,
knuckl.v proposition, but wanting in knowledge. He has
the little learning that is a dangerous thing—sufficient to
get a man into a fight, but not enough to bring him safely
and profitably out of it. He filed his boxing schedule in
the 17rh round. If he can learn more without losing what
he’s got, Campbell should have a future; but this paper
isn’t throwing its mantle of prophecy around recklessly
on the subject. # *
N.S.W. Motor Boat Club will bold an “out-
side” race on November 27, when, to decide the owner-
ship of a cup presented by Mr. Muston, the boats will
race out through Port Jackson’s frowning gates, streak
awav to the heads at Botany Bay, and come back to “ the
Beautiful.” The Motor Club continues to grow, 10 new
members being elected at last meeting ; but something
should be done by some of the wealthier men in the way
of introducing new fast boats. The introduction of some
sort of general type of boat for racing purposes would
also attract considerable interest. That the people love
the sport is beyond question. Hardly a race but
has been watched by excited and interested crowds from
headland and shore, no matter what the weather was like.
The club should shake things up and give the people an
occasional pageant like that splendid burst of color with
which it made its debut on Sydney Harbor. A few
Venetian nights’ entertainments would give a poor devil
of a newsnaper man a chance to say something interest-
ing about the pastime. If the club has no regard for
itself, it might have some for the pressman. People want
news about motor boats, but at present it is hard to get
unless the scribes go aboard to get it.
• * * *
There is a stir in the N.S.W. Motor Boat Club,
and a wondering if the reign of Arthur Davies as Aus-
tralasian champion is likely to come to a sudden end at
the Championship meeting in March next. Certain it
is that the speedy Fairbanks, the boat of the heavenly
hull, will have to streak its streakiest on the day of justi-
fication. For made is the hull and on the way is the
engine that will give Davies the race of his life. And, tell
it not in Gath, the only Whatmore is the owner. From
Whatmore cometh every new thing in the motor-boat circle
these latter days, and this time it is a new thing with a
vengeance, to wit, one 150-h.p. Mercedes engine. Still,
mighty as that engine may be, it will have its work cut
out to beat the wonderful cedar boat. Davies will pro-
bably rise to the occasion and link up a couple of more
powerful engines in his flyer; and the result will be a
race fit for the gods.
* ■* ■» *
Johnson, M.H.R. (more’s the pity), wants a
“ Henley Regatta ” in Sydney, and spreads himself in the
press re the gorgeous scene that he has in his mind’s eye.
Apparently Johnson’s idea of a regatta is an event at
which a crowd of people make a fearful and wonderful
display ; he marvels that so much beauty could be got
together on the narrow Yarra, and rhapsodises on what
sort of a boshter Henley could happen on the Parra-
matta, where it might be kept going for a week.
Rowing is a popular sport just now, but if the various
clubs are going to be mulct in heavy expenses to make a
show of much bunting, masses of cut flowers, “ golden
lights,” floating pavilions and so forth, the pastime will
be dealt a heavy blow. Johnson’s suggestion came too
late in any case. A better sportsman bad already
suggested that the whole of the aquatic folk of Sydney
should band themselves together and form a sort of
marine reserve, and make one grand annual display of all
the yachts, motor launches, open boats, dinghies and
every sort of craft that creeps, scuds and streaks over the
water.
* * * *
A small armada left Sydney on Saturday last.
It consisted of nine motor-launches on the way to Port
Stephens, Myall Lakes and other beauty spots along the
northern coast of N.S.W., and it will be away for
12 or 15 days. On Saturday night the flotilla made the
Basin, Broken Bay, and then went on to Port Stephens
on Sunday. The distance covered will be 525 miles, and
the excursion marks the beginning of a new period in
N.S.W. motor-boat history.
■* * * <
Sydney’s Prince Alfred Yacht Clubheld its first
race of the season on Saturday, and the prize was the
Marshall Plate, which has to be won four times to find a
permanent resting place. Mr. Brockhoff hss scored two
legs in, and Messrs. Beach, Cutler and Jones one each.
It was a more memorable occasion than usual owing to
the fact that it was also the occasion of the first racing
appearance of Mr. W. M. Marks’ new six-metre
yacht, Culwulla 11. The race did not do any-
thing more towards settling the ultimate fate
of the Cup, as Mr. Trebeck came along in the little
Petrel, and, dancing away in the windward work, won
with comparative ease. Mr. Sayer ran the Fleetwing
into second place, and Mr. Brockhoff was third with the
sky-scraping Rawhiti. The new yacht shaped excel-
lently, and, till it got hung up on the run from Manly to
Shark Island, looked as though its first appearance would
be as a winner. Mr. Marks skippered his own boat, and,
considering the fact that it was so new to him, handled it
excellently. That boat is going to be heard of shortly.
The Rawhiti had bad luck with the wind in the early part
of the race, and when it did get going the time was all
too brief.
* • * *
“Petifi”: The Bulletin (21/10/’O9) remarked
that “The chief lesson of the National Rifle Association s
meeting at Rand wick (N.S.W.) is that the size of the
bull’s eve must be reduced.” But judging from the
shooting in the “ Gordon Highlander” competition, some-
thing besides the reduction of what the cow looks with
is required. The conditions were: “ Teams of eight men
and commander (commander didn’t shoot); form up at
1200vds. ; advance at trail; on appearance of target halt
and fire as many rounds as competitors please. Advance
at trail, and firing repeated three times, fourth
advance at double, halt and fire on appearance
of target. In the fifth manoeuvre, teams to march to
flank, to be fronted by umpire and fire.” Five teams
competed—4o riflemen and five non-combatant com-
manders ; thev fired something like 1000 rounds, and the
grand total of'hits was just 14, viz., Maoriland (winners),
five ; S.A., three ; N.S.W., two ; Queensland, two ; Vic.,
two. Now, these men were not “ splaws” w'ith the rifle ;
they (or some of them) were the very men who got every
shot home in the individual service matches—in the
“Gordon,” “Philip Charley,” “ running man,” dis-
appearing disc,” etc. ; in short, if we have any expert
shots they were on deck in the “Highlander.” Further,
the competitors knew the country they were firing over;
they knew they started from the 1200yds. range ; to get
the range at each firing it was only necessary to judge
how much ground they had covered at each advance :
they knew where the target was and what it would look
like when it leaped into view, and there was no enemy in
front to spoil their nerve. Why then these 14 hits out of
1000 shots fired at ranges between 1200 and 800 yards J
It’s no use heaving 1 at me the old about a ton of lead
being required to kill a man in battle; this wasn’t a
battle.
Selector Norman Brookes is fleeing over the face
of Australasia to find the wherewithal to make an Aus-
tralian team to hold the Davis Cup against the Yankee
tennis team that arrives here this month. Last week he
dropped in on N.S. W., and giving away 15 points, was
drubbed by Sharpe, the scores being 6-3, 6-3. Sharpe
also played well in doubles. Presumably the team will
consist of N. Brookes (Vic.) and A. F. Wilding (M.L.) as
the reps., with Sharpe and Dunlop as reserves. Wilding
last week won the Singles Championship at Perth (W. A.),
and shared with Miss Moore the Mixed Doubles, bo he is
in form.
. * » *
Efforts are being made to raise the necessary-
coin to send the N.S.W. runners, A. R. Siine and
“ Andy” Wood, to Athens to win the Olympic Marathon.
If anything is to be done in this matter ’twere well
if ’twere done quickly. It is no good sending the
men over there with about a week in which to prepare.
Also, it is necessary that they should be supplied with
sufficient cash to bribe the officials to allow them to train
in the Stadium. Bast time the Olympiad occurred at
Athens the all-fired Yankees practically bought up the
Stadium, - and got everybody else excluded as far as
practice was concerned.
* * * *
Victoria has dug out . a champion schoolboy
athlete. At the great public school championship sports
last week A. E. V. Hartkopf (Scotch College) won the
100yds., 220yds., 440yds., long jump, and putting the
weight; and at the Scotch College sports recently the
same bov won eight of the nine school championships.
The public schools’ championship went to Melbourne
Grammar School with 93£ points. Scotch College was
close up with 92 points. Eleven new schools’ records
were created at the meeting ; and E. K. Russell, with a
high jump of sft. 10|in., put up new figures for the State.
* • • *
Clem Hill, playing cricket against East Torrens,
his old district club (he changed his district when he
married), went on as an unexpected change bowler to
break up a stand. He broke it up, and then had the
pleasure of getting his brother Frank, captain of the other
side, for a duck. Clem comes about the middle of a
family of 16 or thereabouts. The youngest brother,
“ Soliy,” has been chosen this year—as well as Roy—to
practise for S.A. for the inter-State matches.
South Aus., angling in troubled waters, has
caught a big fish. J. N. Crawford, possibly the best all-
rounder in the last English cricket team that visited
Australia, fell out with his county, Surrey. He
was asked to captain it in the recent return match
against the Australians, and declined because two bowlers
he thought essential had been left out. So he was thrown
out, and also told he would be left out of the team just
starting for S’Africa. This was serious for Crawford,
who is a poor man. Nobody has ever accused him of
actually taking money for plating cricket; still, it pays
his expenses all summer and finds him a tour somewhere
each winter. Even if he turned professional he could not
qualify for another county under two years. St. Peter’s
College, Adelaide’s big Anglican school, had offered him
a resident mastership when he was in Australia, and it
cabled repeating the offer. He accepted, and the S.A.
Cricket Association is now trying hard to have him out
in time to play against N.S.W. next month. Arid the
Association has probably managed it too, for Crawford
rushed through his packing-up at such a rate that he
caught last Friday’s boat from London.
B , » * *
Saturday saw the end of the third round of first
grade cricket in Svdney, and already the sheep and the
goats are beginning to separate. Petersham heads the
poll with five competition points, leading even the
mighty Glebe, which runs second with four. Burwood,
Central Cumberland and Middle Harbor are together
with two points each, and Balmain has one. Below these
are four blanks, and under the fourth blank is a deeper
pit in which wallow Redfern, University and Paddington,
one, two and seven points below zero respectively.
There was some tall batting, but the pinnacle of
the performances was R. V. Min nett’s deed in carrying
his bat for 150, put up for North Sydney against
Sydney District. Maclean, of Gordon, pounded up
140 against Petersham, and was ably backed by his
clubmate, Johnston, who made 103. Sydney Dis-
trict closed its innings with four wickets down for 440, of
which 238 were made bv two men—Pite, 137, and Collins,
101. Hodgkinson, of Middle Harbor, left 132 on the
scoring board when Goddard, of Redfern, caught him off
the Syrian bowler, Kerim. Gallagher, of Glebe, totted up
114 against Paddington before going the way of all flesh ;
and there were numerous scores of over 50. In fact 50
was commonplace on that great day of the bat. And yet
the bowlers did get a look in. Hill, of Waverlev, got three
Balmain wickets for 15 runs ; Addison got two for the
same number ; and Whitting, of Balmain, responded by
taking five Waverley wickets for 36.
The match of the round was that between
Sydney and North Svdney. With four wickets down for
440 Sydney declared,' and left North Sydney with three
hours in which to heap up 441—a reasonably tall task.
Thanks to Minnett’s 150(not out), North made wonderful
progress, and when stumps were drawn bad slogged
together 305 for four wickets, so the startling game ended
in”a draw. The only bad defeat was that of Burwood,
which crumpled up before Central Cumberland to the
tune of 145 runs on the first innings. Balmain also outed
Waverley by 83 on the first innings, and Glebe downed
Padding'ton'by 40 under similar conditions. Redfern was
overthrown by Middle Harbor by 71 runs, and Petersham
and Gordon plaved a draw, Gordon having declared with
nine wickets down for 349, and Petersham making only
209 for the same number of stumps.
Brisbane, too, had a day with the bat, when
S. J. Redgrave totted up 121, E. R. Crouch 114, and J.
Thomson 103. But, as usual, the bowling got a look in,
and McLaren took eight wickets for 54 and W. Hayes
knocked down seven for 53. “ Batsmen’s days” are pro-
bablv due to climatic influence.
* m *
Melbourne pennant cricket last Saturday was
chieflv interesting for the sudden resurrection of Saun-
ders, once of the Australian XI. Playing for his old team,
Carlton, he grabbed six wickets for 33 against East Mel-
bourne—a very respectable feat on a wicket that was all
in favor of the batsman. Carlton, however, failed to
secure a win. The match ended in adraw. University, being
up against a Melbourne team comprising-some has-beens
and never-wases, licked it by 17 runs ; and P ran, e r*
a position to be disrespectful, defeated South by 6
and a wicket to spare. Richmond nerved lli 2 e
Fitzroy ; but during- Saturday afternoon the .Kichmona
bowling- experienced some great calamities, and ttoy ''
victorious by 106 runs. North Melbourne had the
pleasure of vanquishing Northcote by 125, so doubt
North will be en fete during the present week; wniie
Collingwood gave Essendon a drubbing by o/
Essendon doesn’t seem to be a team of much tonnage tms
season.
* * • •
Maoriland Cricket Associations have now col-
lected £6OO towards the guarantee that is understood to
be the certain inducement to a band of Australian
cricketers to reive the rickety land.
* * *
The ancient and forbidden game of bowls has
burst all over Victoria with a loud crash, and 44 clubs are
waging war in the pennant matches in three and four
rink divisions. This means, of course, that nigh upon
2000 men are interested ; and altogether there must be
about 5000 bowlers in the Southern State.
Gentlemen who dream of suddenly bursting
into the empyrean of fame and fortune as aeroplane in-
ventors shouid note carefully that entries for the com-
petition organised by the Australian Government will
close on March 31, 1910. The date is a considerable way
off, but the intervening time is not much in which to
develop the details of an aeroplane model.
All things come to those who wait and are per-
sistent enough, and on Wednesday last week J. Salvana,
the artist-cyclist of Sydney, succeeded in bursting up
Pearson’s bike record between Sydney and Melbourne.
Pearson did the 577 miles in 57hr. 24min. ; but this time
of asking Salvana ran through in 55hr. 56min., thus chip-
ping lhr. 28min. off Pearson’s wonderful time. Like his
predecessor, Salvana rode right through without sleep,
and did not seem to be much the worse for the ordeal on
arrival. Evidently the “tired Australian” has some
tough material in his composition. Salvana, in making
up his time-table, arranged for a 55hr. ride : but the heat
wave he met among the mountains of the Ma State, and
the fact that he ran away from the motor-bike that was
to pace him through that region, disorganised him some-
what, so when he arrived at the Victorian border
he was running late. There, however, he met
the big De Dion car of the Continental Tyre
people, who were managing his skurry. All night long
the De Dion chug-chugged and snorted along behind him,
sending a stream of light from its four brilliant lamps
which enabled him to avoid much of the roughness of the
road. In fact, it is doubtful if Salvana would have suc-
ceeded in his emprise but for the excellent management
of the motor firm, whose arrangements proved correct to
a decimal, pacemakers dropping in and out with auto-
matic regularity. But those four searching headlights of
the De Dion were the master stroke in an excellently <
planned affair, and when daylight came Salvana had made
up the time he had lost in N.S.W. Although the car
was loaded up with things to make a dead man
ride well, Salvana, finding himself upset by the
heat, refused to take anything, and had only
one meal in nine hours. The interest taken in the
attempt along the route was amazing. At Albury one
man ceased work at 6 p.m., started to pace Salvana at
8.20, and went with him to Wangaratta, and then rode
back to commence work in the morning, after doing a
total distance of 98 miles. Another pacemaker who came
on at Euroa was engaged to ride to Seymour, but getting
deeply interested he sprinted right through to Melbourne.
It was a great feat, but its wonderful success is undoubt-
edly due to the excellent management of the Continental
Tyre people.
* * * *
Although all racing interest has lately been
absorbed by a certain utensil in Melbourne, it is worth
while mentioning that at Brisbane on Saturday Sydney s
P. Mutton won the 10 Miles Bike Championship of Aus-
tralasia, and one named Bell appropriated the Half-Mile
Amateur Premiership of the continent.
Barnet Glass “Elite” tyres had a regular field
day at Campbellfield recently, when the first six men m
the I.C.C.A. Premiership rode “ Elites” ; and the first,
second and third men and the fastest timers in the Victory
annual road and Flora road races 'ere similarly shod.
This was a phenomenal success for any make of tyres, as
the winners of the various races were not connected with
each other.*
The Eight-hour night cycling carnival at Syd-
ney Sports Ground last week, which drew an attendance
of 20,000, was an eye-opener as regards the possible
revival of track cycling. The one-mile Australasian
championship was the titbit, and after a whirling finish,
11. VV. Nesbitt (Vic.) won from George Holder (N.S.W.)
and Gouilett (Vic.). The only insect in the cream was
the fault in allowing 10 riders to battle in the final, when
the field should have been limited to half the number. A
lhotor-cycle scratch race gave the buzzers an opportunity
to toot to some purpose ; and W. Tormey gathered in
the final by riding the three miles in the good time of
3min. 55sec.


Amusements.
“pOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OF NICHOLSON & CO., LTD.,
TUESDAY NOVEMBER, 16.
HAYDN BECK,
MARVELLOUS CHILD VIOLINIST.
Prices—ss. (Res.), 35., 2s. and Is.
GEORGE S. HOLBURN, Business Manager.
JHEATRE
Lessee
CHEAT,
ROYAL, SYDNEY
J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AT S.
SOMETHING NEW. A PLAY ON A PLANE
OF ITS OWN.
SCORES A SENSATIONAL SUCCESS.
TIL
an Exciting Spectacular Military Drama.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
H ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: ,1. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE SPARKLING and UP-TO-DATE FRIVOLITY,
THE BELLE OP NEW YORK
AN UNPRECEDENTED TRIUMPH FOR THE
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT—A COUNTRY GIRL.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Q Rlterion theatre, Sydney.
„ Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors : Clydk Meynell and John Gunn.
A TREMENDOUS TRIUMPH.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
Plan, Elvy’s.
Shakspeare’s Tragedy,
OTHELLO.
Day Sale, White Rose.
HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is fid, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling's, 2s fid.
oydney glaciarium.
w DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is fid, Is, & fid. Popular Prices, fid, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
g»IJOU PICTURE PALACE
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
the HOME OF MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
TIVOLI fHEA T R E, SYD N E Y
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
BERTHA, STUART, Scottish Character Vocalist.
HASSAN, the Eastern Wonder Magician, etc.
THREE TRAPNELL SISTERS <& BROTHER GEORGE.
Emphatic Success of BROWN and ROBINSON.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS, and AUSTRALIA’S
LITTLE TICH.
MR. IRVING SAYLES. MR. FRED BLUETT.
MR. 808 LLOYD. MISS NELLIE POWER.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Q pera house, Melbourne'.
v Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANKO PIPER, Banjo Expert.
ROLAND GEORGE, Musician.
CAPTAIN WINSTON’S Performing Seals.
GWENNIE HASTO, Comedienne and Dancer.
MRS. HARRY SHINE, Mezzo Soprano.
WALTER EMERSON, Comedian.
CHAS. J. JOHNSON, Champion Cake Walker.
DOLLY lIARMER, Character Comedienne.
THE WHEELERS, Trick Cyclists.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager—William Anderson.
THURS., NOV. 4, and FRI., NOV. 5, Last 2 Nights of
THE FLOOD TIDE. .
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 6,
BLAND HOLT’S AMUSEMENT CO.
in the Picturesque Military Drama,
ON E OE THE BEST.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
** Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
STILL THE LODESTAR OF THE LYRIC STAGE.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
Messrs. MEYNELL & GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO. in
NEW EDITION OF CINDERELLA.
Prices—os., 2s. fid., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NOVEMBER 6,
NELLIE STEWART in
ZAZA.
LAST 11 NIGHTS IN MELBOURNE.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
Glaciarium,
Lessees
MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
UHEST'S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES TaEß o fl hL
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2 30
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD. '
Popular Prices—l/6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle 2/-
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C. 1/-
Amusements
W ,R ,J,P^„S ROS - AMPHITHEATRE,
¥W WIRTHS PARK. PRINCES BRIDGE,
MELBOURNE.
EVEI *Y EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WED., SAT., AND ALL HOLIDAYS.
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS,
a FAMILY, Society Acrobats.
RttA B ’J" be Memory Marvel. THE SPANISH
BULL-FIGHT. THE RIDING HORSE, etc.
PRICES Ss., 25., and Gallery, 3s. Reserved Seats 45., at
trlen s. Children under 10 half-price, except to Gallery.
IA/ « R T H’ S O L
WW WIRTHS’ PARK, PRINCES
MELBOURNE.
THE PICTURE PAVILION PAR EXCELLENCE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8,
the Pre-eminent and Perfect
KING’S PICTURES.
“Superior to All.”
A Superb Proerramm • of Subjects changed every week.
Nisrhtly at 8. Matinees, Wed. & Sat., and All Holidays.
YM P I
BRIDGE,
Missing- Friends.
\ NYONE knowing- the whereabouts of
WILLIAM ARTHUR CHARMAN
please communicate with D. P. Carey, Solicitor,
Rockhampton, Queensland.
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT
MEANS
Greater Power on Hills
AND
More Miles per Gallon.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
J/each post free 1/2
Quality Not Better
! in a
Guinea Pipe ‘
r MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
r STOREKEEPERS* FOBACCOMSTS
SHOULO SEED FOB OUK TKADF LIST
STRAW and PANAMA HATS
m
Does not Alter
the Straw.
CLEANED EQUAL TO
NEW
Two fop
SIX PENCE
Done in a few
minutes.
■ Shape or Harden
Dries Quickly.
CTROKLEEN is a Straw Hat Cleaner absolutely free from
poison and injurious acid. Makes soiled Hats like
new in a few minutes. The straw becomes bright and fresh,
not dull and yellow as with other cleaners. Simple and easy ;
a child can use it. Failure impossible. Six Pence per Packet
(Seven Pence posted), Two Packets for One Shilling, posted
to any address. Note carefully, as this advertisnment may
not appear again. Obtainable only from
The Union Mfg. &. Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes ” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddoeks ( , in which she explains
her reason for offering £lOO Reward to an3’one who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by’ applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 Ring Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
Briar
(GBD)
Briar
Pipes
They copy us
They follow us
They never catch us.
You buy
and you buy
the Best.
(GBD)
DON’T LOOK Ol D
DARKEN
YOUR
WITH
HAIR RESTORER
vl
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
Some Rattling Good Cycles I
fdhfd
NEARLY NEW SECOND-HANDS.
Bargains every one of them. Fine machines as good as new,
with 5/- in the £ knocked off old prices to lower stocks.
It’s worth YOUR while inspecting them.
Some of the makes from £3/15 /- each :—
“ Naumanns,” “ Humbers,” “Masseys,” “Red Birds,” “ B. & B.’s,”
“ Clevelands,” “ Speedwells.” “Rovers,” “Hudsons,” etc.
If you cahnot call write for free Catalogue. Please mention this paper.
Our Pitt Street Depot is open every Friday till 9 p.m.
BENNETT & BRRKELL.
“Largest Cycle Building
House in the State.”
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
8-HOUR Demonstration, 1909.
RESULT OF DRAWING.
ART UNION.
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing: of the above Art Union, and
declare the same has been conducted in a proper manner and with absolute fairness.
JOHN HEPHER, M.L.C. R. BLAIR HAY, “Sunday Sun.” DAVID YOUNG, Senior Constable.
JOHN TRAVERS, M.L.C. HECTOR LAMOND, Manager, “Worker.” H. GORDON, “ Sunday Times.
The Prizes will be paid over to the winners on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5th, at 10 a.m. at the Trades Hall,
Goulburn Street, Sydney.
Trades Hali, Sydney, October 30th. 1909. ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary.
hfd
The “Gillette”
Way is the
Modern Way.
ANDREW McGEE
THE NEW GILLETTE RAZOR has twin edged blades —when
one is blunt you simply turn to the other. Shave in comfort —
shave with ease—-shave close —shave with perfect safety—use
the new GILLETTE. Complete, £l/1/= and 22/6. New Process
Blades, 5/= set of 12 (will fit any Safety Razor).
THE AUTO STROP SAFETY RAZOR
NOT TAKEN APART TO CLEAN or STROP.
No constant expense of Blades —gives a keen, smooth edge for every shave, because
the Auto Strop sharpens it correctly, 25/=. Auto Blades, 3/= packet of 12.
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 Castlereagh Street, corner Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Saloon open All Day Wednesday.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
KORRISS I
siree Witches
5 cigarettes
vm
for
M«da
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
" AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
‘ *] f
J
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps etc., it
is the “ Awl-you-want." Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain,
ed. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post lree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Sencl postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO . 229 Col ins Str et. iVM*^urne.
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
WEE
Mcdicator, size
3) Inches lonj.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for book.et lree, or send
Postal Note jos. forMedicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post
Address: Star Novelty Co.,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
free anywhere.
209-231 Collins Street,
hfdh
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It-
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something 1 every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square. London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
How m aL Deaf Ears Hear
He is wearing the
Ear Phone. Can
you detect it?
Being the story of the Ear
Phone, an invisibly fitted Wire-
less Telephone for the Ear, the
invention of Professor Edward
Hoffmann (author of “ The
Sense of Hearing- ”).
The book is most interestingly
written and fully illustrated,
and should be invaluable to
every deaf person who desires
to completely regain the power
of hearing. A copy sent free
on request. Address :
Professor E. HOFFMANN,
Dept. 158 B,
54 Duke Street, Mayfair,
London, Engr.
m
'
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 ror 10/ -
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
i [Mention Tiib Bulletin.] [5


DO YOU NEED A
Open
Face,
7/6.
Higher
Grade,
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-faced Keyless
about WATCHES, short-svind, extra
splendid timekeeper,
7/(».
Higher grade, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
Knock-
strong,
Open
Face,
25/.;
Higher
Grade,
30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel or Black Fly-back Minute Record-
ing CHRONOGRAPH, perfectly timed,
25/-
Extra quality, jewelled, 30/, 40/,, £3, and
£5. Guaranteed ' with a written - certificate.
Solid
Silver,
£2.
Higher
Grade,
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
LEVER, 2"Pl ate > Fully Jewelled, per-
fectly timed and adjusted,
£2.
Higher grades, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/,
£5/10/. In Solid Gold, £7/10/,
£B/10/, £lO, to £lOO, A Written
Guarantee of Free Repair for 2 Years,
goes with each Watch.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/.
Higher
Grade,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
fVnt’s Solid Gold Hunting Keyless, Improved, %-
nlkte Elgin Lever WATCH, Fully Jewelled Compen-
sation Balance, perfectly timed and adjusted,
£6/10/; Extra Heavy, £7/10.
TTisrher grades Elgin and Waltham,
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, to £lOO.
T
Whilst you’re buying,
IHE\ YOU WANT ONE with the latest improvements and the most of them.
get the best. You know that the
A. SAUNDERS’ WATCHES
St Tnow r al They at ire b baeked Tv' Toll? aUhough TeyVay coVTou
SL a Wd a tay for a chLp watch, they are the most satisfactory rn the end.
Solid
Gold,
£lO.
Higher
Grade,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Gold Open-faced Key-
less Rotheram English LEVER,
Chronometer Balance, in four
grades. Solid Gold. £lO.
Extra Heavy Domed Cases,
£l2/10/. 18ct. Gold, £lo.
Extra Heavy Domed Cases,
£2O. Guaranteed for G years.
Open-
Face,
21/.
Higher
Grade,
25/.
Ti’iV's
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-faced
Heart-shaped Keyless WAT-
CHES,; fancy hands and did,
strong and accurate time-
keepers,
21/-
lligher grade, 25/.
Open-
Face,
20/.
Higher
Grade,
25/.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Open-
faced Keyless WATCHES, $-
plate, jewelled movement, pa-
tent adjusted balance, richly
engraved cases,
20/-
Extra quality, 25/, 30/, 35/.
Kept in free repair* for 1 year.
Open
Face,
20/.
Higher
Grade,
25/.
A. SAUNDEIiS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-faced Keyless Knock-
about LEVER WATCHES, f-plate, non-mag-
netie movement, patent adjusted balance,
dust and water proof cases,
30/-
Higher grade, 25/, 30/, 35/.
Guaranteed for 10 years aijd kept in tree
repair for 1 year
Most
Ladies are
Particular
About the style of
Watch they weal', and
rightly so. Out what-
ever you may fancy,
you’ll not have the
slightest difficulty in
selecting a watch that
will please you as re-
gards accuracy, neat-
ness, and lowness of
price.
Solid
Silver
25/.
Solid
Gold,
£3.
A.
SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, Richly Kn-
grayed. Case, -J-plate. l H Uily.
Jewelled, "P|atent Adjusted
Balance,
iS/-
40/, 50/.
£3/10 /
Higher grade, 30/,
Solid Gold, £3, .
4-4/10/. £5/10/, £O/10/. Per-
fect Timekeepers.
A. SAIuMDERS.
Ladies’ WRISTLET WATCHES, Oxidised
Oases, Lever Movement, Morocco Leather Straps,
in Shades of Green, Black, and Maroon.
ia/o.
Higher Grades, 15/, 17/6, 26/. In Solid Silver,
with Lizard Skin Straps, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
In Oct. Gold, 112/10/.
Solid
Gold,
£4.
Higher
Grade,
£4/10/.
1 .adirs ‘Solid Gold £-Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES, Fully
Jewelled, Compensation Bal-
ance, Extra Heavy,
£4. <
Higher grade, £4/10/, . £ J ,
£6/10/. Guaranteed with a
written certificate.
Strong Watches
for Men.
The average man
needs a good, strong,
and dependable watch.
We illustrate vai iuw
types of watches that
we guarantee to give
ove r y satisfaction.
Buving. as we do, for
SPOT CASH direct
from the manufac-
turer, enables us to
give you absolutely
the best value in Aus-
Open-
Face,
8/6.
Hig'hei
Grade,
10/.
>
N
e=a
\\
A. SAU A jJERS.
Ladies' . Black \ Open-faced
Keyless WATCHES, strong
and accurate timekeepers,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
Price ‘according to quality of
movement.
Higher Grade
A. SAUNDEItS. , .
Ladies’ Gold WATCIi-BRACELET, Fully Jewelled, Very Reliable, and i ecura e,
„ , '7 CV ntutiu’ cp.r\(\l £7/10/. Ditto, Chain, set with
£5. Extra Heavy, £5/10/. In 15ct. Gold, £5/10/, / l> ,^ O ,
Rubies and Pearls, or Sapphires and Pearls, in locfc. Gold, £B/ /,
yOU CAN ORDER 1Y POST.
Send vour order to us by letter. Our Up-to-
date Mail Order Department makes it perfectly safe
tor you to do your shopping with us by post.
All goods sent, post free, to any address,
FREE CATALOGUES.
If you don’t see just the watch you fancy drop
n nostcard and we’ll send you our Illustrated
Catalogue It includes Jewellery, Silverplate,
Clocks” Leather and Optical Goods. Write to-day.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/
Higher
Grade,
£B/10/
m
Solid
Gold,
£l2/10/
Solid
Gold,
£l5.
fdh
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ 10K Solid Gold Hunting Keyless
Stem-set Waltham LEVER, f-plate, Full
Chronometer Balance,
£6/10/.
With Extra Heavy, Cases,. £7/10/. 14ct
Gold, Extra Heavy, £B/10/; 18ct.,
£lO. Guaranteed 4 and 5 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ 18ct. Gold Hunting Keyless, spe-
cially made Waltham LEVER, f-plate
Chronometer Balance, Fully Jewelled,
Hand-finished throughout,
£l2/10/.
Extra Heavy Cases and Highest Grade
Movement, £l5. Guaranteed for 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent. V Nickel Open-faced Keyless Railway Level
WATCH, fully jewelled, compensation balance, pa-
tent screw, dust and water proof cases.
Higher grade, £2/10/. In Solid Silver, £2/10/,
A 3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
Gold-
Filled,
£4/4/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s lOkt. Patent Gold-filled Hunting
Keyless WALTHAM, Fully Jewelled, Com-
nensation Balance, £4/4/- .
Higher grade, 14kt., £5/5/; Nickel adjust-
ed movement, £6/6/. Cases guaran ee
for 20 and 25 years; Works foi 3,4, and
5 years.
Gold-
Filled,
£5/5/.
I
/
%
\
Solid
Silver,
£4/10/.
Solid
Gold,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Flyback Minute
CHRONOGRAPH, records the minutes and seconds on
a separate dial. Fully Jewelled, Lever Escapement, Com-
pensation Balance, patent Brequet Time Spring,
£4/10/.
Higher grade, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £lO.
In Solid Gold, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O, £25. Guaranteed
with a written certificate.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith, &
Consulting Optician.
I
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New. Railway Station, Sydney* N.S.W.


'
s ’ S'' - ■ ’ •
.
'■
■
, •
ISiig
,% * *
■
-■
SI
» <„*-'■■ i v V
e< ‘V
■ k ’l^£V # - i
■A ■
*r:.. *
.'A*
IS
IS -J
■ S:
■ 'i-
: ' S’
Mm
mm
im
f
> V'v ‘
mi
u>
Z i <•*
*■&>&
Plfp-:
s : ssC;-'
il.
ysmr i;
■;s'w s
ii
IS;
& '*'< s
■
sfe®ssisL~,«,„ .
V Mi
im « «■
;^siiii
,
>' M'' -'/H- 'S 'Vi'S'”
Si .-’■ s s . ■ •'■ >■
■ ■ ■ . ■■■■■■
s
. .
MM
S
m
' :.,
sea
\
ii
■
m
.
§, ■
k
fmik
1
■ n
MS l •
sa
mk
tHMBH
»n
m
iil !
I' :fe W
, , :
m
I,W
ill
SM
§jj||§§
:
: i i
S3£f£ S
:
liffi
a'SSS
im
• v \
• i T,:
I*s &,
iiilii
!|i|l|lBisli|^||^l|B: :^
I»lll
MISS
-
HU
ii,.
‘
IlffliiilSfl
isigis
IS
1M
■ ■ ■
, '7' ' M
.
IlSSlilliSlf
KM
.'l;'
mm
MBM
: ■. : , ■ ■ ;
i
-
wmm
m
Wmm
iissa
ii||
i mm
m
I*
■
" ; S'>:fsS,s:
:
i
MS
a
ii
s-
■
■M
9B
: ;
• ■ S^riff 5
. *
b
■ v,i
m
-f
'
! ’ :>••" , :r'i-
-4? 5 «- < < -
I; . i
* ,, 4 , ‘
.
‘44;,:..
. ■
' ' • ‘
. ;•-
’ ■ S'S
Slit
-. :
p?
I ' . ■ I ; S
‘, f ,
‘
Y-S'v
;>V s> ;
.
I i
Imperial
15
The Whisky for Men of Taste


We Supply Every Cinematograph Want.
We are specialists in Cinematography, and stock everything in that line
from the simplest accessory to complete Machines and Films, including
THE FAMOUS PA THE FILMS at 4d per Foot.
s~~>
©
ffl
Q
0>
0)
Q)
a>
Our supply of Film is the largest
in Australasia. We have
OVER HALF A MILLION FEET
OF THEM,
all popular subjects, fresh and
new for sale or hire.
We Give ENTERTAINMENTS
employ competent operators for
emergencies, and make SPECIAL
FILMS TO ORDER.
SEND for OUR NEW LIST of SPECIALLY
PRICED FILMS, or call on us and see
what we can do for you.
Our Catalogue is Free for the Asking.
JORDAN'S,
(formerly OSBORN
JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Di9t (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘FRUIT Salt' assists the Functions of the Liver, Rowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
C AUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ' FB.UIT SALT’
otherwise you, have the sineerest form of jlatury IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
•v
¥*7
INVEST IN A “PLUM”
io/6
Australasia.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post tree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
■.C ... ,i r
: am
|||:
j
¥ ‘X
m
You Can See Through It.
“Featherweight” Eyeshade.
Very Comfortable and Pleasing to the Eye.
The Only Satisfactory Eyeshade Sold.
Weighs ONLY i OUNCE. Adjustable to any Size or Position.
Only 1/6 each, or 3 for 4/- postage paid.
Here is a genuine boon for all So'Bveshades made of
- the iight. These “Featherweight the eves from
a greenish transparent maTerial sufflcient to pr' te - the user
the glare of tr e sun or n’ghtlight, yet sutticieni great advantage
to see right through them. Th's m * t"necessitating lifting
over other eyeshades which are not transparent, e)se than
‘ your head constantly when you only a
around the room. They are remarkably light,
qtiarter of an ounce, and as they are hi-U l ' fortaWe and most pleasing
is no metal band to press the head, tbijy are very eool and - package and cur-
to the eye. When not in use they he flat on the table Mjdw betoruunro wear glaPses
ried in the pocket, or wculd not be noticed inyoui hat- b ever brought out. The
q. .1 SMITH & So., 338*340 Kent*street, Sydney
HOMOKORD (Homophone) DISCS
*
DOUBLE FACE.
Adaptable to any
Disc Phonograph -
LENGTHIEST DURATION OF PLAY.
Most Durable Material. Largest English and International Repertory.
CATALOGUE SENT FREE AND POST PAID.
List of Agents furnished by the Manufacturers :
HOMOPHONE CO., Berlin, C 60, Klosterstr, 5/6.
Write for “Le Dernier Cri”—a
beautifully illustrated Art Cata-
logue of Fashions—Gratis.
No. 20G9-Lovely Model, in Fancy Straws, dainty killing's
of I,ace Edged Net,, threaded with Ribbon • and finished
smartly at back with new French Bow, 15/6.
Ho. 2007—Charming Picture Hat, in Colored Straws, pretty
Mounts of Roses and Foliage, Tulle.to finish, 11/6.
Every article as advertised.
No exaggeration.
No .misrepresentation.
Summer Snaps from Fitz.’s
Inter-State
Postal charges.
Each Hat, 1/2 ;
Costume, 2/8 ;
Victorian do.,
9d. and 1/6.
One Thousand
Beautiful
Models
illustrated in
our Catalogue.
No 2056—Handsome Visiting Gown, in Colored Shantungs, panels
edged with Guipure, Collarette of Lace ; to order, £4/10/-
Becoming Hat, in Tagel Straws of any desired shade, prettily lined
and trimmed with areophane and full plumes, 45/-
Samples and
Estimates
always sent
Free by Return
Post.
When
ordering: state
very clearly
means of
transit.
FITZGERALD BROS.
Drapers. Importers.
Manufacturers,
North Melbourne
FREE CARRIAGE throughout
Victoria on £1 parcels by rail
or boat only.
Ho. 2043 —The Jessica. A very beautiful and becoming
Model in rich shaded Straws, lavishly trimnipd with
Flowers and Foliage, finished with Alsatia Bow, 12/6.
No. 2011—Delightfully Shady Hat, in Lueda Straws, swathed with
Mousseline de Soie, finished with Rosette and Ornament, 6/11.
Inter-State Clients are asked to
make P.O. Orders & Postal Notes
payable at North Melbourne.


“OH FOR A CAMERA”
Whenever you say it —Wherever you hear it
Remember
PREMO
THE PREMO CAMERAS are exceptionally fine plate cameras, made
at an economical price. Compact, simple and durable, they give
wonderful results in all classes of work, and are so made that
they will accommodate the Premo Film Pack as well as plates. This is
a marked advantage to the owner, who practically has the equivalent
of two cameras—plate and film. Made by the Eastman Company, the
Premos are thoroughly reliable. We briefly describe four patterns here.
Full details will be found in the Premo Catalogue, which will be sent
post free on request.
The Pony Premo No. 1
is undoubtedly the very best value ever offered in a 4 x 5 plate camera. It is
remarkably simple and compact, and eminently adapted for beginner's. The
camera is very strongly made, all metal parts are nickelled, the lens is a rapid
rectilinear, and the covering is of grained leather. It has a rising and falling
front, a hooded brilliant reversible finder, two tripod sockets and a single valve
automatic shutter. It weighs 240 z., and is priced at £2/10/- Postage is 1/9 extra.
The Pony Premo No. 2
has the general characteristics of the No. 1, but also the advantages of a
reversible back. It can be instantly and easily reversed for horizontal or
vertical pictures, so that it is not necessary to change the position of the
camera for either style of pictures. An accurate spirit level is fitted to the
bed, and the camera is very carefully constructed throughout. The box is of
mahogany, covered with fine grain leather, and the carrying case is of imitation
leather. All the fittings are right up-to-date, and as the Film Pack Adapter
can be readily used, the camera is a very serviceable one. Price, 4x5, £3 ;
Opiate, £3/17/6. Postage 1/9 extra. ' .
The Pony Premo No. 3
has all the advantages of the preceding models with the addition of rack and
pinion focussing attachment, longer bellows draw, and double valve automatic
shutter. It gives the owner a broad scope of work at a very moderate price.
The Pony Premo No. 3 is handsomely finished, the shutter and all metal parts
are nickelled, and the covering is of grain leather. Price, 4 x £>, £4/5/-;
Opiate, £5/10/- Postage 1/9 extra. i..:-. . .
The Pony Premo No. 4
is designed for a wider range of work than any of the previous ones. It is
provided with additional equipment of swing back, Planatograph lens, and our
new automatic standard clamp. The swing back saves the tipping of the
camera, and the lens is the best obtainable outside of the anastigmats. The
camera, of course, takes films or plates with equal facility. Price, 4x5, £5 ;
h plate, £6/15/- Postage 1/9 extra.
Bailer (El Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
Sole Agents for Australian Kodak Ltd.,
37P GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “The Block,” 284 Collins St„ Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N. 2.
KRUSE\S
MAGNESIA
THE AUSTRALIAN REMEDY FOR ...
Indigestion, Biliousness, and
Acidity of the Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
G.olt) (fficaai,
Calcutta. (883
VPIIOC'Q
FLUID MAGNESIA
am mm m m mu w »*w
+ AVxV Mimv MtfßmtfftM HR#*
¥»**«*• *#*»' \X v\\'>Vv\.Vy'(\\f VI'SU f«< (VMA.V.V
M* mtkmx \v'X\'A.\,V VW\V»W'JI.V VU'A.v
lAAMA* Vft.W'A.VA' XXW'.W'A.V V¥>' A RM4 •’.»
(Itt KR»«X«Xr-WU vN.MIVW MWWIUVJ
MM* .»AX«»X%i .WHVWSJAK fAVIUV ««V«J
#<sm m? m* A'xx««» tt\\ui ».\x«»av
MVKltUtt V«* X*\M AXVf tMV AWAAMIOfIA«*.W
AVU*MA H .» XV\' ,*,\.V(V J.VtUIHA-
W<lwwilllllfMlll mini. 11l lllllllll' V Hlllll
IBmiuiinni Minn (HI ininiii niiiiiiiiiiiiilllllllk
FELTON, CfIIMWAuE * CO., MELBOURNE,
t m MM fjff*** u.iniiM gjfluj i..
Allays Feverish Conditions due
to Vaccination and Teething.
A Cooling Medicine for Spring and Summer.
Sold by Chemists and Store Keepers
throughout Australia.


£250
REWARD
IF SHE FAILS.
+
WRINKLES
SYDNEY “BULLETIN” FREE
BEAUTY COUPON.
4.
Good To-morrow for this
"World’s Most Famous
Beauty Specialist.
An opportunity is now offered every reader of this
paper to consult the World’s most famous beauty
specialist, Harriet Meta, of Paris and London, absolutely
free.
A little over three years ago there was nothing 1 known
which, in the opinion of scientists, would actually remove
wrinkles, but at.that time Mile. Meta made the important
YZ
m
1 HI
m
(y
disco very
which has
since made
her famous
in two con-
tinents.
She de-
ni o nstrat-
ed t h e
great pow-
er of her
new pro-
cess by
taking her
own wrin-
kles out
with it in
three
nights,
after face
massage,
mask s,
s t r a p s,
stea m i n g
pots, etc.,
had all
failed, and
to-day Mile. Meta’s face is still free from wrinkles, her
cheeks full and plump, and her skin and complexion is a
delight to behold. In fact, by many she is considered the
most beautiful woman in all Paris.
Her remarkable discovery was brought before the
judges of the Paris International Exposition and the
Rome Exposition Internationale for their investigation,
and in both instances they quickly awarded her Goiri
Medals thereon. The French Government also honored
her with a patent on her new process, and patents are
now pending before the U.S. Government at Washington.
London journals sent their Beauty Editresses to in vesti-
gate her methods, and their high endorsements of her
discoveries made her famous almost overnight, so that
she was eagerly sought after by French Countesses and
English Ladies of high title and rank. The Beauty
Editress of the London Onlooker wrote : “ An interview
with Mile. Meta left me persuaded that here at last might
be found the secret to restore youth and beauty.”
Many'of those who have used her process report most
astonishing results. Mrs. Mary J. Davis, of East St.,
Louis, 111., says : “ My wrinkles were very deep and of
long standing, so you can imagine my surprise when, after
only two applications, they entirely disappeared.” Mrs.
L. E. Haskell, of 2502 Clay Street, San Francisco, writes :
“lam 50 years old. Consequently my wrinkles were of
long standing, and I had not thought it possible to erase
them ; but now when I view my changed reflection in the
mirror I can scarcely realise the transformation that has
been wrought.” Mrs. M. A. Edwards, of Raleigh, N.C.,
says : “Since using the treatment I look younger than I
did 25 years ago.”
Countess Radsch, of St. James’s, S.W., writes: “I
have used your treatment just as you directed, and the
result is simply wonderful. In spite of some of the lines
having being deeply marked, they' have now completely
vanished, leaving the skin beautifully soft and smooth. I
consider your treatment truly marvellous, and am sure
anyone who gives it.a trial will endorse my opinion.”
Since Mile. Meta made her remarkable discovery
imitators have naturally sprung up all over the country.
Some of them have copied Mile. Meta’s advertisements
and literature to such an extent that the public is often
at a loss to distinguish the imitation from the real. She
has therefore authorised the announcement of the follow-
ing remarkable offer, which cannot fail to convince you
as to who is who.
Mile. Meta will forfeit £250 in gold if she fails to prove
that she holds nine Gold Medals and three Grand Prix on
her discoveries from International Expositions. She will
forfeit £250 in gold if anyone can prove that she did not
take out her own wrinkles with it in three nights,
exactly as she claims. She will forfeit £250 in gold if
every testimonial and sworn statement which she pub-
lishes is not absolutely genuine. She will forfeit £250 in
gold if anyone can show advertisements similar to hers
published in any newspaper or magazine prior to the
publication of her advertisements.
Arrangements have been made with Mile. Meta to
furnish free information in regard to her marvellous
process for removing wrinkles to all Sydney Bulletin
readers. Merely cut out and send her the coupon below,
and you will receive free particulars by return post in a
plain sealed envelope. You can use this remarkable pro-
cess in the privacy' of your own home without the know-
ledge of even your most intimate friends. It often works
astonishing wonders in a single treatment overnight.
WRINKLES.
Out out this Coupon to-day, and post it to the
World-famous Beauty Specialist, Harriet Meta
(Dept. 511), 61 New Oxford Street, London, W. 0.,
Eng., for FREE INFORMATION in regard to her
marvellous discovery for removing wrinkles. Good
to all Sydney Bulletin readers.
Sydney Bulletin Free Coupon 511.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 # Grand Prize St. Louis 1904
KfIIODERHfI
PREPARfITIOfI!
F.COOLFF & SOMH, Knrlsruhe nna London
Knlotferma Jelly
prepared with glycerine Si honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable 5s efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
KgMermoJoap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap,the leading soap for softening# improving the sKin.
Knlodermn Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Jcf
Knlodermn Slinuins Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
fl refined luxury at a popular price, uc/' JS/' JcT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
A
SI
WINCHESTER
B 1 ck Powder Shotgun Cartridges I
The important points in a shotgun cartridge are relia-
bility, uniformity of loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities and strength to withstand reloading.
All these virtues are found in Winchester “New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
No. J5BB. —“New Design ” Silver-
plated Rose Bowl, £l/7/6.
No. 365 A.— Silverplated Fern Pot,
4iin., 18/6 ; 4|in., 22/6 ; 6in., 32/6
No. H8949.—A1 Quality Silverplated
Centre-piece. Price. £4.
TABLE DECORATIONS.
We have a very complete range just now of Fine Quality Silverplated Centrepieces, Rose Bowls and Specimen
Vases, so if you would pick while the stock is at its best, you had better not delay. If you cannot call, write
for our Fine Art Illustrated Catalogue. Sent to any address. We pay postage to any part of the Commonwealth.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Strand Corner, George Street, Sydney.
No. JsB7.—Silverplated
Sugar Shaker, 17/6.
No. H4BB. —Fluted, Chased
and Silverplated Fern Pot,
4jin., 12/6.
No. F6s42.'—Engraved
and Silverplated
Flower Vase. 6Jin.
high, 11/6.
No. GB3o3.—Very Handsome Flower and Fruit Centrepiece.
No glass to break. A 1 Quality Silverplate on Nickel
Silver, £7/10/-
No. J 610.— Magnificent Flower Centrepiece, At Quality Silverplate,
with Chased Tops. Price, £5/5/-
No. JsBti. — Siiverplnted
Sugar Shaker, 13/6.
No. J 585. —Smaller size,
10/6.
No. J 937.— Ster-
ling: Silver Flower
Vase, 25/-
No. G 3159. — Sil-
verplated Flower
Vase, llin., 30/-
No. G4299.—Chased and Silverplated
liose Bowl, £l/15/-
No. G4B9B.—Smail size Silverplated
Rose Bowl, 7/6.
No. G 2426. —Silverplated and Chased
Centrepiece, £6/5/-


mun^
r
m
“THE FAVORITE”
DURING CUP TIME
wmm
IN the planning and appointment of the Melbourne Sargents’,
the Sydney pattern—so widely and favorably known —has
been followed and improved upon.
Here is every contrivance and resource that organisation,
capital and forethought could devise to make Dining something
more than Dining has ever been before.
Sargents’ in Melbourne, as in Sydney, is established in
popular regard as the pleasantest resort not only for Luncheons.,
Dinners, Afternoon Teas, Banquets, etc., but a comfortable place
in which to meet friends, to rest awhile and enjoy a chat.
There are Rest and Toilet Rooms for Ladies ; a Smoking
Lounge for Gentlemen —comforts, luxuries and conveniences on
every side, and not a fee to pay nor any gratuity expected.
A large staff of Assistants give a quick, courteous service
especially on busy times such as Race Days. An Electric Lift
obviates any fatigue of travelling to the upper floors. The Table
Appointments—China, Silver, Cut Glass and Napery-are of the
finest. The Daintiest Dishes are placed before the Cafe’s
patrons. The Menu is on a liberal scale, with all the scope of
choice which this implies. Yet the price of all this Superior
Service is not high. The Tea Room Tariff is from 6d. ; the
Luncheon and Dinner Tariff from Is.
A Luxurious Banqueting Hall, seating 200 guests, can be
engaged with or without Catering Service.
Our Meat Pies are famous throughout the Commonwealth
.for quality and flavor. The range of Cakes and Fancy Pastry is
on a lavish scale. We specialise in Wedding, Birthday and
Christening Cakes.
As the Largest Caterers in Australia we cater for Private
Functions, Balls, Banquets, Picnics, etc., giving that Perfect
and Complete Service it has been our privilege to create.
SARGENTS LTD.,
MANUFACTURING PASTRYCOOKS and HIGH-CIASS CATERERS,
SYDNEY : Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
BRANCHES EVERYWHERE.
(’Phone-Office, 3559; Cafe, 1876; Catering, 4250).
MELBOURNE : 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone—City, 1344).
A
>
\
m
111
/
X
pATO/TT-
■ 4288 •


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE_ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPF.TOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
[Tons
Commander.
Sails.
W. G. Lingham .. Nov. 13
T. J. Hine .. ..Dec. 11
F. W. Hanson, R.N.R. Jan. 8
fWAKOOL .. ..! 5013
♦COMMONWEALTH, 6611
tWILCANNIA .. 5000
* Twin Screw. Calling 1 at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £.31 10s
f Speciallv reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
A RLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, Ac., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street. r c, t nn
Apri.aidk & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAND.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (flutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Heao Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
106 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Ilor.. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
jjank florth Queensland
limited.
Authorised Capital .. ... •• £700.000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNI.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE,
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
C ipital Paid-up in n
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . '2,500 0 0
£731.601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
»n. Mngr.:Edwd. D. Day. Asst, Mngr.lE. 11. Matthews.
>ndon Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,506,000 0 0
£4,300,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. II E. Kater, M.L.C. .. . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A, J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector :
H. H. Massif..
Head Office: Georg's Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. It. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Piniiey.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL “ £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine . ■
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINHEY, Manager.
INord L/loyd.
four-weekl7~mail service.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Tel. 695.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)eui Z ea l an| l-
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710.998
PDAMTC nDACTC 0,1 Australia, New Zea-
unHWlO Unrtrio land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. \V. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.): J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Shipping
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
Commander. _ | Leave Sydney.
A. Douglas, I Noon, Dec. 4
R.N.R. j
A. Robb .. I Noon, Dec. 31
N. Allan .. I Noon, Jan. 29
H. A. Schleman \ Noon, Feb. 25
A. Simpson .. | Noon. Mar. 16
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £L l<s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hisrhest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, <fcc., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailins.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Airents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
fdhfd
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 24.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
December 22.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC, to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £34 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New Vork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &o. from 34 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. 17 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dahjet ij and < tun pa nil. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown. and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shorthand Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
hfd
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district..
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., IO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest cn deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being-:
(а) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO. (d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
(б) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during are payable half-yearly.
currency of loan. (e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to on any instalment date; interest to that
31 years. elate only being charged
The tenures upon which the Advance Department, mav lend are: — (l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 noon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
D;tailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Skcrktart, at Moore Street, Sydney.
* I
u
TASMANIA.
HIGHFIELD.
Murray Street, HOBART.
S. H. McDonald, Manager.
_The ideal spot for pleasure seekers ; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged and Re-
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite for the
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class Cuisine.
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &c.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
HE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35.000 0 0
Dirkctohs : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice Chairman ; lion. J. M. Pratt ; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; .1. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES JIOIUtOWMAN, Manasrer.
FUEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
FITZ’S
Genuine Folding
PANAMAS.
Thoroughly
Bleached.
hfd
Post Free
Anywhere
FITZGERALD
BROS.,
North Melbourne.
BZMIii
yn
BBSltes
OH
SsS
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Re gent. St , London, 'W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping-
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports-
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping 1 at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), December 4,
calling' at all N.-West
► Ports to Wyndham.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
S.S. Wollowra, Nov. 16.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Alling-a, Nov. 6.
-S.S. Grantala, Nov. 13.
S.S. Yonprala, Nov. 20.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE ter
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,.
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
CBoice of the Finest
Vessels in tlie World
crossing' the Atlantic..
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. f LTD!
.Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.
H.—->S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool.
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,400 Tons. T. Priskk, Commander..
Will be despatched from BRISBANE- - 13th Nov.
~ ~ ~ SYDNEY - - 23rd Nov.
„ ~ „ MELBOURNE - 30th Nov„
„ ~ ~ ADELAIDE- - 7th Dec..
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth*
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
f £49 10s ’ £l3 13s - £1515s- £l7 17s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
ot,her fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “DORSET.” For further information, illustrated
hooks, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane;
H. .10NES & CO.. Ltd., Hbbart:
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd., Adelaide. .
The
November
Edison Records
comprise 22 Standards (two-minutes) and
28 Amberols (four-minutes), and they
include a very jrood variety of entertain-
ment. Many of the old favorites come
to the fore again—Billy Murray, Cal
Stewart, Ada Jones, Steve Porter, Oily
Oakley, Peter Dawson, and the usual
fine selections from band and orchestral
combinations.
Will you drop into your local Edison
dealer’s and ask him to let you-hear some ?
Full lists will be supplied on application.
When you’re in, ask to see the “Fire-
side ” —a new Phonograph that plays both
Amberol and Standard Records.
NATIONAL PHONOCRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish’
to be cured without operation. Then send for particulars
oi our perfectfitting
Automatic Air cushion appliance
the Best Rupture Appliance of the Century-
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre;
WINSLOW CO., 251 Coliins St..Melbourne,Vic
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES* PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage, 2£d.),
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo*


REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
Ik National Bank of Australasia Limited.
.- V ?L he Balar >pe Sheet of the Bank, as on 30th September last, and the Pr >fit and Loss Account for the half-vear
q H l6ll ternnna ted, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
, e profit, after deducting expenses of management, and the other items specified in the Profit and Loss
Account, amounted to ..............
Deduct note and income taxes in Australia and Great Britain
Net profit
Balance from previous half-year
Leaving 1 available
'V hich it is proposed to appropriate as follows : i
Grant to Officers’Provident Fund ..
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £215,000) .. .. .. " ’
Reduction of bank premises..
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on preference shares .. .. ."
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares..
Carry forward * ’ “ ' ’ ' ' ’
mrl« , D \ lrina ' fc . he , half-year branches were opened at Gunhower, Lismore and Thoona, in Victoria ; Crystal” Brook
ana Salisbury, in South Australia; and Dowerin, Quairading, Taminin and Wickepin, in Western Australia. Agen-
S' S 'T , so established at Devenish and Nyah, in Victoria ; Hallett and Milang, in South Australia ; and Doodal-
Kine, Darkan and Three Springs, in Western Australia.
® enera, l Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Company, Collins-street, Melbourne, on
Wednesday, 3rd November, at noon. ’ ’
, By order of the Board of Directors,
JOHN G. ADDISON,
Chief Manager.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
For. the Half-Year Ending 30th September, 1909.
(Including London Office to 28th August, 1909, and Western Australian Branches to 13th September, 1909.)
Dr. CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital-
-30,578 Preference
Shares, paid in
money to £lO per
share £305,780 0 0
238,188 Ordinary
Shares, paid up to
£5 per share.. ..1,192,440 0 0
£1,498,220 0 0
To Reserve Fund Ac-
count 200,000 0 0
Profit and Loss Ac-
count 74,365 12 0
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£82,049 os. Id.; bear-
ing interest, £506,995
os. 5d £589,044 5 6
Other Deposits—Not
bearing: interest,
£2,790,360 7s. Id. ;
bearing- interest,
£4,979,132 Is. lid... 7,769,492 9 0
Interest accrued and
rebate on current
bills 50,674 IS 7
Balances due to other
banks 125,154 10 5
£1
,772,585
270,410
451,515
8,570,366
12
0
6
3
6
0
2
6
£11,064,877 2 2
Contingent Liability, as per contra,
£249,423 14s. 6d.
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion and
cash at hankers .. £2,280,048
Coined sold in tran-
situ
Government, munici-
pal and other pub-
lic stocks, deben-
tures and funds ..
Billsand remittances
in transitu
Notes and bills of
other banks
Balances due from
other banks .. 62,311
Duty stamps .. 4,301
15 3
50,000 0 0
494,857 17 8
591,132 13 3
11,040 2 8
19 9
Real estate, consisting of bank pre-
mises at present book values
Other real estate, at valuation
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts..
Or.
£3,493,692 16
430,057 4
52,703 18
7,088,423 2
9
8
0
9
£11,064.377 2 2
Liability, in the form of a guarantee of
certain shire and municipal deben-
tures (Victoria) sold in London,
and which are being duly provided
for by sinking funds, in terms of
the Act authorising their issue,
£90,600 ; and liabilities of cus-
tomers and others on letters of
credit and drafts, £158,823145. 6d.,
as per contra, £249,423 14s. 6d.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at head office, 146 branches
and 29 agencies £72,395 6 8
Note and income taxes 5,025 10 6
Balance 74,365 12 6
£151,786 9 8
By Balance brought forward £7,974 15 4
Gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid
and accrued on deposits, repairs to
premises and rent 143,811 14 4
£151,786 9 8
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
.. £200,000 0 0
£200,000 0 0
By
Balance last half-year £‘lBo,ooo 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss .. .. 20,000 0 0
£200,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ report, and the Directors and Chief Manager’s statements to comply with the Companies
Act appear on the official report. JOHN Q. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
V*\f
IALCOCK’S
Billiard Tables
The “BIJOU” BILLIARD
TABLE, fitted with slate bed and
fast=running cushions, covered
in superfine billiard cloth, 6ft. x
3ft. £l9; 7ft. x 3ft.
£22; Bft.“ x 4ft. £2s ; 9ft.
x 4ft. £3l 10s. Easy
terms if desired. By a simple
adjustment of leaves these tables
can be immediately used as
dining tables.
ALCOCK* <p gs
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
AND
397 George Street, Sydney.
[r
Send 6d* for Sample Packet of “ The Bulletin” Post Cards*
214 George Street* Sydney.
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Limited,
The THIRTY-THIRD REPORT of the DIRECTORS
OF
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
To be Presented to the Shareholders at the Thirty-third Ordinary General MEETING, to be held at the Bank,
126 Elizabeth Street, at noon on Thursday, 28th October, 1909.
REPORT.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Thirty-third Report, with a Balance Sheet and State-
ment of Profit and Loss for the half-year ended 30th September, 1909, duly audited.
After providing’ for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, tax on
note circulation, providing fully for the recent defalcations, which involved the bank in a loss of £3598 145.,
.. £20,292 11 11
3,543 12 6
£23,836 4 5
.. £10,641 10 9
.. 4,733 5 6
5,000 0 0
1,000 0 0
2,461 8 2
£23,536 4 5
since the previous half-yearly meeting the London branch of the bank has been established, and is now in full
working order.
During the half-year branches of the bank have also been opened at Ararat, Cowwarr, Lismore and Thorpdale.
The dividend will be payable at the head office on and after the 29th inst., and at the branches on receipt of
advice.
The Thirty-third Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the head office of the company 126
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 28th day of October, 1909, at noon,
By order of the Board,
Melbourne, 10th October, 1909. ' W. A. GIBSON, Acting General Manager.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
For the Half-Year Ending 30th September, 1909.
Ur. (Including London Office to 31st August, 1909.)
making provision for bad and doubtful debts, the n t profit amounted to ..
Brought forward from 31st March, 1909
Which the directors propose to apportion as follows, viz.
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on preference shares
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares
To reserve fund (making it £135,000)
To officers'provident fund
Balance carried forward
Cr.
To Capital paid up, viz. :
'JttpiliU p«UU up, V IX. .
31,184 preference shares
paid in cash to £9 15s. £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £llss. 135,236 10 0
Reserve fund
Profit and loss
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation
Balances due to other banks
£439.280 10 0
135,000 0 0
IS, 836 4 5
109,628 0 0
183,549 15 10
1 10 0
Government deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£57,338 6s. lid. ;
b e a r i n g interest,
£316,477 14s. 9d. . £373,51C 1 8
Other Deposits—Rebate
and interest ac-
crued—
Not bearing- interest,
£1,018,284 19s. 6d. ;
bearing interest,
£1,692,768 11s. 4d... 2,711,053 10 10
3,084,869 12 6
Contingent liabilities as per contra .. 242,533 3 0
£4,213,698 15 9
By Coin, bullion and cash
at bankers, £491,728
11s. 3d. ; money at call
and short notice in
London, £lOO,OOO ..£591,728 11 3
British consols, £70,608
15s. 2d. at £B2 per
cent., £57,948 7s. 6d. ;
Victoria Government
stock, Metropolitan
Board of Works, muni-
cipal and Metropolitan
Gas Company deben-
tures, at valuation,
£75,773 14s. 3d. .. 133,722 1 9
Bills and remittances in
transitu .. ~ 194,344 4 2
Notes of other banks .. 3,827 0 0
Balances due from other
banks .. .. .. 25,766 14 7
Stamps 1,191 7 0
£950,579 IS 9
Real estate, consisting of—
Bank premises at cost to new bank.. 201,115 13 4
Other real estate at valuation .. 38,877 2 6
Bills discounted and other advancis,
exclusive of provision for bad or
doubtful debts .. .. .. .. 2,780,592 18 2
Liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as
per contra.. .. 242,533 3 0
£4,213,698 15 9
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, etc.)
Bank note tax
Transfer to reserve fund
Balance
£31,544 S 7
1,156 2 6
5,000 0 0
18,836 4 5
£56,536 15 6
£3,543 12 G
By Balance brought forward
Gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on de-
posits, rebate on bills current, and
making provision for bad and doubt-
ful debts and the recent defalcations
52,993 3 0
£56,53G 15 C
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT .
To Balance
£135,000 0 0
£135,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward
Transfer from profit and loss
.£130,000 0 0
5,000 0 0
£135,000 0 0
The man to whom you give an
Aito&trop
ktWoR r
this Christmas will consider him-
self doubly fortunate.
He will secure luxurious and
convenient shaving for the rest
of his life, and he will be saved
the continua_ expense for new
blades, which the gift of any
ordinary safety razor would
necessitate. Nothing to take
apart, either to strop or clean.
■>trop
mb
The Sta~dard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated,
self-stropping razor ; one dozen tested
lancet-steel blades ; one horsehide strop;
in leather case, size 2in. by 3|in. ' Sold
25/-
by all leading dealers
NET,
Descriptive Booklet free on request to the Agents for Australia :
Lamson Store Service Co., Ltd.
The Ria!t\ Collins St., Melbourne, and 222 Clarence St., Sydney
Auu>£trop SafeUj Razor Go.. Ltd 61 L , N n 7„°^ni‘ M
Also rt Paris. New York and Montreal.
CAPILLARINE the moustache producer
*4
\
YOUR MOUSTACHE
may be only an apology for one. If so, Von can wonderfully
CAPILURINE.
A single pot works wonders, for its result is sure and certain.
YOU TRY IT.
10/6, Post Froo to any part of tk World.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
r


THE
REMOVAL
SALE.
Such a fortnight it has been !
How much have YOU saved ?
It’s the chance of a lifetime ;
never before have there been
such price reductions—and
you know that Brisbane prices
are the lowest in the Common-
wealth any time.
Send your money and take
advantage of this opportunity.
Everything reduced. 10 per
cent, off all garments made to
order in the Tailoring Dept.
Save !
FINNEY. ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND.
An up-north correspondent:—
Unless the Queensland Federal Labor members, both
Reps, and Senators, get to work quick and lively, some
of them will meet a crocodile at the next elections, if the
recent State elections are anything to go by. On figures,
two of the sitting members, Bamford and McDonald, look
like certainties. Andrew Fisher will have to hustle, but
will probably win. Of the Confusionists, it will be hard
to shift the dreary Edwards, Foxton (the gentleman who
“talks too much”), or the colorless Groom. If Higgs
gets to work, he has a first-class chance of ousting Archer,
the pure merino, who thinks he represents Capricorn. In
the Moreton electorate, a first-class fighting democrat
might upset Sinclair, even though lie does represent
Cow, whose worship is intense in those parts. But, so
far, no opponent has made his appearance, and there are
floods of ignorant ideas to mop up and many miles to
cover. Burly Jim Page will have to put his shoulder to
the wheel; his opponent is already at work. It is for
the Senate, though, that the fight will be most severe.
North and West Queensland will vote the democratic
ticket, but the stodgy constituencies like North and
South Brisbane, Toombul.Toowong, Toowoomba, Ipswich,
Maryborough, Rockhampton and Mackay, all show figures
in favor of the State Frighters ; and, although the elections
are several months off, there is no time to lose, for the
other side has money to spill and will spill it. Even now
you can hear the gentle splash of it in the distance, and
it is sweet music to many ears.
“ Queenslander ” writes : —-
Be article (B. Oct. 14) on the “ Conservatism of the Labor
Party.” The charge can be fully sustained and fully-
proven. Years ago Labor started with a platform con-
taining no fiscal policy and no financial policy. To-day
the same glaring defect is apparent. Here in Queensland
the L. P. has no financial policy at all. It is impossible to
quote from the speeches of a single Labor member any
utterances indicative of a definite financial policy. At
election times no Labor member bothers about talking
finance. As to the borrowing business, most of the
Queensland Laborites would borrow and spend as freely
as Kidston, and that is saying a great deal just now.
Neither Labor press nor Labor members have ever had
the courage to preach a non-borrowing policy, or even to
strongly advocate a restrictive policy in regard to loan
expenditure.
Broadly speaking, the Go-it-Alone policy of the Labor
party is admirably suited to the' requirements of the
capitalistic parties in Queensland. The Brisbane daily
press gives it most emphatic approval. The men of the
Mann-Lesina type get the utmost encouragement from
uur plutocratic journals. Philp (and latterly Kidston)
has, time and again, expressed his warmest approval of
the “adherence to principle” shown by the Q. Out-and-
Outers. It was this fine rigid uncompromising attitude
nf the L.P. that kept the Tories in power for a dozen
years in Queensland, and they trust to the same attitude
to put them in power again—and to keep them there.
And yet the most astounding divisions of opinion exist
in Labor ranks on the platform itself. Take one
fundamental point. Some time ago Mr. Fisher,
the Federal Labor leader, who is from Queens-
land, strongly condemned the principle of Elective
Ministries, as he said (according to the Melbourne Age)
he was essentially a party man, and Elective Ministries
would be fatal to the party system. But the Q. State
Labor party to which Fisher formerly belonged has a
plank in its platform entitled “ Elective Ministries.” Is
Mr. Fisher aware of this? Can a good Queensland Labor
man believe in lilective Ministries in Queensland and dis-
believe in them in Melbourne?
As to the comparison instituted in “ ll.H.’s” letter
between the careers of Labor in Queensland and South
Australia respectively, the root.of the trouble in Queens-
land probably lies in this : The Q. Labor party is largely
dominated bv its principal Labor journal—a paper which
has been voicing for years the views of the Ultra section
of the party, and which is consequently quoted with huge
gusto bv the capitalistic press. It is well known that the
Central' Political Executive is strongly averse to seeing
the P. L. party assume the responsibilities of office,
dreading, doubtless, the effect, of that ordeal on the
solidarity of the party—and hot without reason. A
party without a definite, clear-cut financial policy is
bound to make its political nakedness apparent at the
verv outset of its career as a Government And all
the'above is said more in sorrow than in anger.
“Each succeeding number of Tiib Lose Hand con-
tinues to maintain the uniform excellence and high stand-
ard of journalism which this popular monthly magazine
has set for itself. It is typicalof the best Australian pro-
duction in literature and art, whilst the style and general
< ma ke up ’of the journal indicates a master hand in
control, and a gifted staff to draw upon. Tjie Lone Hand
is without a doubt filling a niche in Australian journalism
which is appreciated by the public and by contributors, the
latter finding a profitable avenue for disposing of their
best ‘ copy.’ The enterprise of the management is shown
in securing the Australian rights for publication of ex-
President Roosevelt’s notes of his hunting trip in Africa,
the first instalment appearing last issue. ’
This, from the West Macquarie, Blavney
(N.S.W.), is not an extract from a press notice;
but the complete notice.*
The teacher in Western Bananaland, where
the population is even thinner than it is on the
Coast, is now being instructed in a side-line.
Blight plays Patriarchal Henry with the eyes of
the Western children, so the Department is arrang-
ing for its teachers to try their hand at doctoring.
Bad cases, though excluded from school, are to
report themselves daily for treatment; and the
itinerant pedagogue is to add a medical chest to
his baggage.
The Anglicans of Mackay have been
cadging in foreign parts for a free pipe-organ,
and now, at long last, they appear to have
roped one in. They first tried the late Lord
Amherst. Whv he should unload a pipe-organ on
Mackay didn’t' appear. He seems to have been
asked to on the general principle that most lords
have money, and that anyone with money is a fair
mark fora church which needs an orga-n. How-
ever, Amherst was swindled by his family
solicitor, and went broke and died. So Mackay
turned to Melba, who said she would send a
cheque to the fund. Whether the cheque mate-
rialised, and if so, whether it was of a size where-
with to purchase a pipe-organ are unsolved
mysteries. Anyhow, the Anglicans were shortly
found besieging Carnegie. The ancient of Skibo
has a hobby for presenting organs (he gave one to
St. George’s, Dublin, recently, at a cost of £400),
and he weighed in with a favorable reply. And the
sturdy individualistic religious folk of Mackay are
wild with joy thereat.
For 11 years did Horace Tozer hold the
Agent-Generalship, despite a regular annual pre-
diction that this year would see the last of him.
He is now returning to Queensland, and, it is
rumored, intends contesting the Federal Wide
Bay seat against Fisher. (Tozer used to represent
Wide Bay in the State Parliament.) The Agent-
General’s job was . offered to John Forrest, of
Moreheads Limited, but he refused it. It was
not offered to Joey Bell, who wanted it; but it
has been conferred for no fixed term on J. B.
Robinson. This indefiniteness is most likely not
an accident; there may be Cabinet changes any
DEAD WEIGHT.
“ My word doesn't seem to carry much
weightprotested the young Wife.
“ Never mind, my dear," rejoined the brutal other half,
“ your apple pie more than made up for it."
day, and when they do happen it may be handy
to have the job of Agent-General to give to
somebody.
“ Mallarapoonie ” : Out beyond Boulia,
beyond the headwaters of the Mulligan, there is a
native “ mickerie’’ in the desert that is calculated
to make a white Australian well-sinker smile. It
is locally known as Para-itehi. (In the same
locality are Dulla-itehi and Bilyin-itebi, and
several other itchis. The term alludes in some
way to the white-stemmed gum.) This native
well is something of a record in Australia, for it is
nearly 30ft. deep and timbered. The timber work
of that well, sunk by salvages, is a joy and an
astonishment. Instead of setting off with a robust
collar-set the natives commenced with a ring of
lancewood stakes. Their mullock, tailings or
dirt must have been thrown at the surrounding
aspect, as there is none' visible locally. A few
feet down there is an inner ring of stakes, closely
driven to keep the fine red desert; sand from
trickling in, and inside and beneath that is yet
another similar ring. Thereabouts the ground
commenced to become heavy, and the stake-work
had of necessity to be strengthened with a perfect
network of spreaders. At 15ft. the natives must
have met with)something of a creep, and were
forced to put in a frame-set to keep the fab-
rication from closing in. That frame-set
is the most humorous thing the writer
has met with in a long career. There
are 11 pieces of timber in the frame. However,
having picked up the ground securely at that
level, the natives proceeded with their system of
stake rings and spreaders. Runnels, springers,
breast-laths, wood-packing, old grass, spinifex—
anything, in fact, that native ingenuity could
devise was used to keep the sand from filling in,
but always with a return to the same old
vertically-driven stake and the same old forked-
stiek spreader. The contrivance resembles a cross
between a blue crane’s nest and a catastrophe,
and it is a nightmare between times. It is neither
a vertical nor yet an underlie shaft, but in the
bottom is a gallon or two of the treasured fluid.
The natives seem to have followed down the
water as it receded in dry times. But how they
raised the water to the surface only Heaven and
the blackfellows know.
Twenty-Five.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is imperatively necessary that we insist that the
255. per capita agreement be made a permanency in the
Constitution.— Leading Q. politician at Rockhampton.
EF the States would live and flourish,
And a genuine greatness nourish.
If in perfect peace and plenty
They would thrive;
They must gather round the banner
That’s inscribed in noble manner
With that simple, ancient legend
Twenty-Five!
Wade and Kidston, Peake and Murray,
In a most infernal flurry,
They are calling to their legions—
“ Look alive !
Or this Parliament Australian
Will begin a Bacchanalian
Federal banquet on our precious
Twenty Five !
“’Tis the sign of subjugation
Of this rampant Federation,
’Tis the token we have chained it
With our gyve;
And when battle closes round us
And the hostile cries confound us,
What a slogan for the timid
Twenty-Five ! ”
ENVOI.
Thirty pieces was the ransom
Of a certain deed unhandsome,
But no further into history
Let ns dive ;
Let us own, in sad confusion,
Into bondage Lilliputian
Have they bound us by this tribute—
Twenty-Five?
QUEENSLAND.
FEDERALIST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 30, 1909.
Mt Dear Thargomindah,—
The trouble at the Milk Institute reached an
acute stage on Thursday last, when the financial
woes of the committee were set forth at a public
meeting. Dr. Turner, whose intentions are a
great deal better'than his platform voice, told an
alarming tale of the slaughter of the innocents
who die during the months of Oct. and Nov., at
the rate of about two and a bit a day. The Insti-
tute is guaranteed on the word of about 17 doctors
to be capable of saving more infant life than all
the hospitals, for the hospitals only treat the kiddy
after it has fallen sick, while the other place feeds
it and prevents it from falling sick. Now it is
holding out a partially insolvent hand for £3OO to
keep the work afloat. Has any well-disposed per-
son got that sum hidden in his clothes? I ask the
community to search itself and its fellow-man in
an earnest spirit, and see if there is coin in the
tail-pocket.
Henley upon the Brisbane is the next excite-
ment, and will simmer upon Dec. 4, in that part
of the waterway which runneth past the old
Kinellan and Merthyr properties. Great efforts
will be made to outdo Melbourne’s recent achieve-
ments, and picnic parties are urged to illuminate
the river lavishly at their own expense.
The last Liedertafel concert took place in a blaze
of glory, and in point of audience was a very
creditable turn-out. The society, now that Con-
ductor Kaye has got to work in earnest, is show-
ing well. Its work was a credit to the Kaye
person aforesaid, and, incidentally, to the singers
and orchestra. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson lifted up her
very best notes in two quaint bird songs and a
collection from “ the Garden of Khama. ’ Another
Queensland voice (and it will astonish folk yet afar
from its native land) —that of Vera Parker
was a bright snpt in that shimmery programme.
The Parser infant only needs a little more tem-
perament and some additional training, which last
she intends to get in Australia. As the only
songstress who isn’t leaving for England, she is a
personage who is worth going far to see. In fact,
I think that excursion trains should be run to
Yera.
A chair-warmer at the Queensland Agency-
General has been found for the careful Kilp, in
the person of one T. B. Robinson, alleged to have
been in this State some 22 years ago for a period
of five years. He will therefore be able to speak
of present local conditions with that freedqm from
bias which comes of complete ignorance. Robin-
son is one of the old steel-rail MTlwraith-
McEacharn Co. The bluff John Forrest and h-is
decorative wife apparently scorned the chair-
warming contract.
A heavy shower of aristocrats is falling in these
parts. A prince, who carefully explains that he
is an anti-aristocrat, has been humming round
during the past few days. Notwithstanding his
mortal hatred of royalty, he bears with fortitude
a card upon which is inscribed a very large crown
and about 17 titles. To look at the young person
one would not imagine that the effort of being a
prince would so weigh upon his soul.
Then there is a Comte de Something, who is
travelling about improving his knowledge of the
world. The news of his arrival so comforted the
world that it sat up and immediately 7 took
nourishment.
I saw the Walter Bentley mummers for a brief
moment on their way south. The allegedly im-
possible North had agreed with them. Miss Essie
Clay has quite grown up, and the Helen Fergus
lady has acquired a color as well as a lovely 7 pair
of earrings from an old admirer in the wilds.
Our favorite Ham has been snatched from our
Health Department and has gone to hatch
schemes whereby the Yarra and Little Bourke-
street are to smell like Araby the Blest, so another
officer had to be appointed to keep the local rat in
order lest he catch plague once more. The choice
has not been made officially public yet, but unof-
ficially it is understood that Dr. J. S. C. Elking-
ton, of Tasmania, has laid hands on the vacant job.
A matter that is exercising the minds of the in-
quisitive is the coming distribution of Birthday
“honors.” Birthday “honors” don't usually
come this way to any great extent; but t _ er { ’ g S
Queensland’s Jubilee year, and there -
that Edward VII. hasn’t forgotten the -Ln
questions are being asked : (1) Is it t
who recommends people for kmghthoo s- H ,
so, how would he set about recommending
There passed out with suddenness on Friday
morning, Lundey Hill, of Bellevue sta ion.
succumbed to an old enemy, malaria, contracte
on his land-grabbing excursions m the y
west. He was a bluff old soul, who fought : *
week with every friend he possessed an sp
the rest of the time filling in the breach. ’ j
the midst of his choicest abuse, which he serv ea
out with a shovel, there was mostly raor ‘
little wisdom. He married, after Rhou ? '
immunity from domestic troubles, the widow of the
late Con Taylor, of Bellevue, and it is said that the
combined width of the happy coup e • "
that they had to move up the aisle sideways.
However, the experiment turned out highly suc-
cessful, and the Lumley Hills were the ideal hos
and hostess of one of the most comforta ‘
beautiful station homes in the State. Lumley,
son of Col. Charles John Hill and Lady Frances
Hill, first saw the light at Tiekill Castle in the
year 1840, and was educated at Rosal school and
Oxford University. He came to S. Aus. in .
and to Queensland the following year following
the beef and mutton trail to fortune, and being in-
timately connected with the Duracksof Westralia.
His grabs included Northampton Downs, Isis
Downs, Albilbah, Westland, Rosebrook and
Avington, while Thornleigh also passed through
his hands. He was thrice elected to Parliament,
and represented Cook and the Gregory. His
politics were a mixture of wrath, conflagration and
bull-ant. Hill was the man that first spotted the
work of those famous caittle duffers made famous m
Rolf Boldrewood’s story of Starlight and his gang,
and he knew the white bull that was the un-
doing of that remunerative little enterprise.
He enjoyed life, and often raged into the city in
his big motor. As a writer of letters to the papers
he was notable; his accumulated epistles would
fill volumes. His letters were mostly printed
exactly as he wrote them, for he threatened_to
murder any editor who altered his copy. In
between the other occupations of his strenuous
life he found time to be the owner of the finest
Hereford herd in the State.
Sincerely yours,
MARIO.
Arnold Wienholt, the pursy young Tory
who did Queensland the good service of upsetting
turncoat Jenkinson out of the lassifern seat, rep-
resents the third generation of the family to stick
a finger deep into Bananaland’s affairs. Generation
No. 1 was represented by Daniel Wienholt, who
built the railway line between Warwick and Too-
woomba. No. 2 was Edward Wienholt, who 30
odd years ago was for a while in the State Parlia-
ment, but was much better known as part owner
of Jondaryan and half a dozen other big squat-
tages. Arnold, who stands for No. 3, has been to
Eton. He also went on the farm-burning racket
in S’Africa. But particularly he went to Eton.
White ants have put up a record for them-
selves on the telegraph route between Prairie and
Hughenden (N.Q.). About three years ago new
iron bark telegraph poles were erected along the
line, and to scare off the pest a hole was drilled
into the centre of each pole and a liquid poison
poured in. Then the hole was plugged up with a
plug also soaked in the deadly mixture. Now the
poles are mere shells —trifles light as air—-a clan of
ants, nearly half an inch in length, having bored
through wood and poison alike. They seem to
thrive so well on the mixture that there is no
alternative save to erect iron poles. By the way,
was the North Pole eaten by white ants?
Is it significant, or is it merely a coin-
cidence, that most of the men returned unopposed
at the late elections were silent members?
Stodart hasn’t made three speeches in the last
eight years. Fox has made one. Somerset has
never even made that many; all he has been
guilty of are a few observations. P. F. Hanran,
of Townsville, was just such another. He never
even bothered about election speeches, but rose
up after Philp and said—“ Well, gentlemen, after
hearing Mr. Pliilp, you don’t want a speech from
me. particularly as the hour is getting late. You
know my politics.” And they used to put him in
flying every time.


HOW GERMANS COLONISE QUEENSLAND.
Queensland is a cosmopolitan community, and men
of all white races are welcomed.
German communities exist, in which a sturdy race
is developing the soil, clearing away the pri-
meval forest and replacing it by sugar, maize
lucerne, mixed crops and dairying.
These fine colonists preserve many of the character-
istics of their old homes. Everything is clean
and neat; the waggons are of a peculiarly Ger-
manic type, and the residents have polyglot
attainments.
German names remind the visitor of the oritjin of
the settlers—such as Walloon, Marburg, Min-
den and Kirchhcim.
The German is a peculiar/,!/ welcome citizen, as he
is the equal as a colonist of the Emjlish, Irish,
Scotch or Welsh.
He goes straight on to the. land, and is a fine farmer.
livery white nation on the earth's surface is repre-
sented in the colonists of Queensland ; and
every white race is welcome to come in and
share the wealth of the wonderful Northern
' State.
Queensland To-day:
the Queen State
of the Common-
wealth.
No. XLIV.
GERMAN COLONISTS IN
QUEENSLAND.
BY. J. D. FITZGERALD,
Barrister-at-Law.
The prospective immi-
grant will doubtless be in-
terested to know the kind
of people he is likely to
meet in Queensland. He may reassure himself
that, whatever nationality he belongs to, he will
find some members of that nationality in Queens-
land. For a small community of little over half a
million, Queensland is one of the most cosmopoli-
tan in the world. The predominant representa-
tion of European nations is, of course, held by the
English, Irish and Scotch stocks. But in the
pastoral, agricultural, dairying, sugar-growing
and mining industries may be found many names
of Italian, French, German, Dutch, Polish and
even Russian origin. Of the smaller communities
which have made Queensland their home, the Ger-
mans may be taken as the most representative.
There are several settlements of German
A FAMILIAR FARM SCENE, LAKE CLARENDON, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
primary producers in Queensland. I select one
in the district of Rosewood and Fassifern, within
a few miles of Ipswich. A community of German
farmers, with a singular foresight in the choice,
settled itself upon one of the richest districts
in Queensland. Here mixed farming in its widest
sense is carried on. In one paddock you find
r ...
cotton flourishing, in another sugar-cane, side by
side with maize and pumpkins. In the district you
will find the curious ribbed German carts convey-
in g the produce to market. You see beautiful
herds of cattle ; the plough is at work on the fat
soil; the butter factory throws open its doors to
the produce of the farmers, and in the centre of
all stands the sugar mill.
In a previous article it was declared that a more
beautiful tract of rural landscape could hardly be
found in any part of the world. The main thing
to be remembered when one sees these smiling
fields, cultivated hillsides and beautiful park-like
stretches of pasture land, is that this was the scene
within the last few years of some of the thickest
primeval forests of Queensland. Clumps of the
forest giants remain to-day to show the conquest
which the farmers have made over the original
NAMBOUR (Q.), N. a LINE. A THRIVING SETTLEMENT CARVED GUT OF
VIRGIN FOREST.
conditions of the country.
If one wants to measure the courage and
tenacity of the new nation which is being blended
from all nationalities in Queensland, he need go
no further than this district, which is occupied by
a community of German farmers. Where the
forest giants stood and the thick forest scrub, to-
day the country is distinguished . by beautiful
farms and charming homesteads, with here and
there the kirche and the school; and in the fields
every product of the soil that can be imagined.
In one part I saw a hillside from which the timber
SOME DESIRABLE TYPES OF COLONISTS.
Photos, supplied by Miss Gibson, Rosewood, Queensland.
had been recently felled, and was being burnt off.
Close to the burning embers on one part of the
hill a farmer was already putting in his crop of
maize. As to the variety of crops that can be
raised in this country, we have it officially stated
that
Lucerne, maize, sugar-cane, cotton, arrowroot, pota-
toes, panicum, sorghum, imphee, pumpkins, rape, mangel
wurzel, all grow well; all kinds of fruit trees, especially
the citrus variety, flourish ; vines do well, and there is
plenty of local wine, made ; and every sort of vegetable
for the table can be groivn.
The names of the villages in this district indi-
ca*'e the origin of their inhabitants. We have
Marburg, Minden, Walloon and Kirchheim. The
lending citizen of this fine district is Mr. Frederick,
storekeeper and owner of the central butter
factory. In the centre of the district stands the
su " ilr m . ip j belonging to the Marburg Sugar Coin-
ffis & W ' GiW Thl *
lb snorougniy up-to-date in every resDect and
will shortly be connected with the farms by means
°f. a tramway, which the company propose to
build. This will act as an encouragement to the
ni , d n try ’ ,lsaisted . b y the
cane grown by white labo,? will’enlble E/ar-
burg farmer to reap a rich reward from the mag-
mncent soil on the hillsides and in the valleys of
Marburg.
It is curious to note that in this district the
sturdy farmers of Germany have brought with
them many of their national characteristics and
customs. There is hardly a farmer in the district
who does not grow his own grapes and make his
own wine. Yet, although many distinct charac-
teristics of the homeland are preserved, the Ger-
man colonist does not stand aloof from participa-
tion in all the duties of citizenship. English is
universally spoken, although the children no
doubt speak also the language of their parents.
No one who has seen a community such as this in
A TYPICAL SELECTOR'S HUT, QUEENSLAND.
active being would venture to contradict the
statement, which has over and over again been
made, that the German is one of the finest colon-
ists that has ever been found under the British
flag.
The German element gives as good as it gets in
a community to which it emigrates. A stalwart,
law-abiding, energetic colonist is the German and
the Scandinavian; and he brings a splendid
leaven to the growing nation. Among the
younger generation of native born, that silent
fusion of races is going on which will produce the
new race-type of the future. All the great and
successful nations have been mixtures, from the
Romans down through history to the British and
the Americans of to-day. The modern British
have a very strong infusion of German blood ;
and as to the Americans, they have absorbed the
Germans into their nation with great velocity.
Queensland is \vaiting for the rush which is bound
to come when the German discovers that the
chances of the unit in a population of (53,000,000
on a territory of 208,000 square miles is not quite
so great as the same individual would have m a
territory of (570,000 square miles with not quite
one inhabitant to the square mile.
When the Germans, as well as other Conti-
nental nations which have hitherto had their eyes
turned towards the setting sun, realise the chances
HARVESTER AT WORK, NEAR WARWICK, QUEENSLAND.
which are open to them in Queensland they will
proceed to “get in early and avoid the rush.”
The knowledge that communities of their own
people exist in Australia must be an encourage-
ment to the intending immigrant. We cannot, as
yet, expect the great multitudes which have gone
to the United States; because emigration is
cheeked, if not altogether stopped, from Ger-
many and other parts of Europe to America. But
the stream still flows, and on all the probabilities
and the examples of the past, it must turn to a
country like ours, which is comparatively
empty of men, if full of actual and potential
riches. The world has been , amazed at the great
“Gulf stream ” of human beings who have crossed
the Atlantic. America is so near, Australia so far.
Yet the,Germans who live in the district which I
have been describing have had very little reason
to regret that they came south instead of west—
The Irish race is strong also in Queensland,
constituting about one-fifth of the whole popula-
tion. In the United States the Germans and
Irish supply a huge percentage of the races now
being moulded into the new American type.
Here are the figures of the two elements in the
United States: —
Germans .. .. .. .. 7,832,681
Irish ~ .. .. .. 4,981,047
Of these 6,244,799 were either born in Germany,
or in America with both parents German ; and
1,587,882 were children of one German and one
American parent. Of the Irish. 4,001,401 were
born in Ireland or in America with both parents
Irish, while 970,580 were children of one Irish and
one American parent.
Throughout this district a deep sense of com-
fort and prosperity inspires the visitor. What a
contrast to the,clangor,of the great Golden Mount,
which I had just seert! And what typical
examples of the marvellous resourcefulness of
Queensland can the visitor find in a few days’
railway ride ! On the one day he may be listen-
ing to the throbbing of the great turbines at the
foot of the Mount; the next bowling through the
cane country on tlie
rivers at Maryborough
and liundaberg, or past
the great ore forma-
tions of Many Peaks,
in the Gladstone dis-
trict ; and the next day
he may find himself in
the beautiful surround-
ings of Marburg, Wal-
loon, Kircheim and
Rosewood, looking
from the road through
the cultivated paddocks
and at the comfort-
able homesteads of the
farmers.
In the peaceful church-
yard he will still believe
himself in a village of
Saxony or Westphalia.
On the beautiful marble
monuments he will find
the inscriptions in Ger-
man—
Hier ruhet in Gott
L. F. EISF.NM B Y R R,
Neb’st seinen weiz toehtern
Maggie und Louise Gest.
1883.
(Here rests in God L. F. E., with his two daughters be-
side him.)
and the pious inscriptions, such as
In froher frischer
Leben^kraft
Ward Eisenmayer Zingergraft.
(In the fulness of health lie was cut off.)
The names on the tombs, too, were pure German
—Hulda Frank, Reinhard Vogel, Schen, Reinke.
“fcsebg sind die Toden die im Herrn-Sterben ”
was another inscription. The ride back from this
thriving district, in which dairying has gone
ahead by leaps and bounds, side by side with sugar
and mixed farming, brought us over a steep hill
down on the other side. Beneath us was the town
of Rosewood, on the main railway line. On either
side cultivated tracts, rich in their deep and pale
greens, stretched away from steep hillsides to the"
lowlands and plains. Away beyond were the
mountains, with Cuningham’s Gap; and between
us and the mountains a wide expanse of pasture
and farm land. One felt that this community had
a future ; that the sturdy Germans who constitute
the “settlement” were a fluxing ingredient in
the ethnical “ reduction process ” which would
give high assay results in the new Australian
nation. But there is one fault with these Ger-
man settlers—and one only—there are not enough
of them. That they are doing their best to over
come this not insuperable defect may be seen from
the snapshot on this page.


m
y
8
3^
a
U
>
FOR IRRITATED
SCALPS
Warm shampoos with Cuticura
Soap followed by gentle applica-
tions of Cuticura to the hair roots
clear the scalp of crusts, scales
and dandruff, allay itching and
irritation, destroy microscopic
life, soften the scalp skin, stimu-
late the hair glands and promote
hair growth. Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment have become
the world’s favourites for the skin,
scalp, hair and hands.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Palx; Austra-
lia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India, B. K. P: ul,
Calcutta; China, Hong Kong Drug Co.; Japan,
Maruya, Ltd., Tokio, Russia, Ferrein, Moscow:
80. Africa. Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U.S A.,
Rotter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston,
WHY STAY
FAT?
V
Ten thousand Fat Women
have been, restored to
normal. —So may you.
“FATCURE”
is a harmless and pleasant cure for Obesity.
In average cases it reduces by about 5 lbs.
per week, and the excess fat once removed
does not come back. Send 2d. stamp for
FREE TRIAL Sample and Free Book,
which explains how “ FATCURE cures.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
v Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.^
CONSULT
the Old HERBAL
SPECIALIST
for Nervous and'kindred troubles which embitter Jjfe
arid cause Nervous and physical breakdown. You may
receive the benefit of his lon<r and successful experience
in the treatment of these complaints free of charge..
Address: HERBAL DISPENSARY.
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
ANTI-FAT.
Don’t worry about your excess of fat. Fucus
Vesiculosus is the only herbal remedy known
to the world that will reduce your fat. We
charge onlv I.os. for one month s treatment.
Send for a" Free Sample and Booklet.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 3, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CHANCE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxat.ve.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATiNE Sold by All Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
STYLISH BOOTS FOR MEN
Tiiis Stylish Gent-’s Bstl. Boot om be had in five
shapes, either Tan or Black. T.s the very latest
style and eminently suitable for Summer wear.
Price 186
Postage
9d. extra.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
LEEMING’S,
103 Swanston St., Melbourne
303 Chapel St., Prahran
1 8 3 Errol St., North Melb.
4S
o
mto
ms
By Special Appointment to WJt the Kinp
hfdh
i
The Tyres
i on which
the World’s
Records have been made.
MICHELIN TYRES hold pride of
place in the estimation of Motorists
the whole world over. They have no
rival, but numberless would be so.
TYRES
need no praise beyond their own
merits. If you want tyre satisfaction,
have your car fitted with Michelins.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co
fdh
LTD
234- Clarence Street,
Sydney.
289.291,293 Swanston
Street, Melbourne.
Also Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart and Brisbane.
*4
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawKes & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
CEREBOS
SALT
O
Agents—Harrison & Attwood , Sydney .
SEE
HOW
IT
RUNS
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Prloe 2/-.
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St.
Or by post from
, Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
c
THAT HAVE CAUCHT ON!
They're books every Australian should
read.
They're typical Australian from cover
to cover—full of intense interest from
start to finish. They’re written,
printed and illustrated in Australia—
you ought to read them —they re pub-
lished in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E. Birtles ; price, cloth, 3/6;
postage sd. _ , _ ~ „
The Poor Parson, by “ Steele Rudd ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Duncan McClure, by “Steele Rudd ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d. .
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by “Steele Rudd ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d. . „
Back at Our Selection, by “Steele Rudd ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
From Selection to City, bv “Steele Rudd ,
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd”; price, paper, 1/- ;
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, o/b ,
postage sd.
Settler and Savage, by Chas. De Boos ; price,
cloth, 1/-; postage 4d.
Do., paper, 1/ ; postage 3d.
On the Fringe of the Never-Never, by H. K.
Bloxham ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James Green ; price, paper, 1/- ;
postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by C. D. Websdale ; price, cloth, 1/- ;
postage 3d. And o th er equally good
books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
All Branches
and
Book-
sellers.
/-
SUMMER SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Ae rtex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear
funu 3
NORTON
Cartridges.
fdh
British made
.22 Long
and
%_ Short
fdh
Your i
ranue Re-
cords will be
improved by us- '
ingr these Cartridges
The best Rifle Shots
r all use them. Sold by
Ammunition Dealers.
Agents :
THE COLONIAL
AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA
“ E. A.” : To go from the fifth perusal of Barrie’s “The
Little White Bird” to the bald cablegram, “Mr. J. M.
Barrie, dramatist and novelist, has obtained a divorce
from his wife,” assuredly makes one think. If there is a
man in this green world who understands women, adores
children and appreciates the true romance of marriage,
that man, one would unhesitatingly say, is the author
who so wonderfully tells the story of the little governess,
the imaginary Timothy, and the hours which preceded
the arrival of David into this world. In fact, if there
ever was a man who could fill to overflowing the waste
places of a woman’s heart—a man to whom she would be
likely to cling with hands, nails and teeth—that man is
J. M. Barrie. Alas for oneself and one’s thoughts ! A
Mr. Gilbert Cannon—who is he to rival the author of
“ Peter Pan ”in the heart of a woman ?—steps in. Mrs.
Barrie, presumably, steps off the “ straig-ht and narrow.”
Mr. Barrie steps into the divorce court. For the sad
reality is that to write of love, sing of love, even act
love, is an entirely different matter from living love.
And that is “ What Every Woman Knows,” especially if
she be the wife of author, actor or singer. The greatest
latter-day authority on woman and her ways, Max O’Kell,
the brilliant author of. “ Her Koyal Highness Woman”—
O’ReH, wbo gives you minutest instructions how to get
on happily with every conceivable type of woman —found,
so they say, one woman who refused to be got on happily
with according to his plans and specifications, and she
was his wife.
“Cosallen”: Apropos the par in Poverty Point
(B. 21/10/’O9) re the “ fasting man ” at the Melbourne Wax-
works. I know an apparently gilded youth who, after
doing in most of his substance in riotous living during
the first ten days of the month, exists for the remainder,
practically on tobacco and water. He hangs up his hat
in a bed-cum-breakfast emporium of sorts, so he starts the
day with a feed of some kind, but I know positively that
for at least the week previous to pay day he lunches
heavily off a walk round the Block and a cigarette, and
dines luxuriously, with a pipe in his mouth, off the view
from Mrs. Macquarie’s chair. He looks none the worse
for these efforts, though he has to push a pen pretty
strenuously from 9 till 6 or thereabouts, so I think he has
a future before him as a fasting man or non-eater or ariti-
foodite.
The three Wiesanthal Sisters, who have danced in
joyous triumph across Europe, are just now appearing at
London Hippodrome. They get nearer to the artistic
conception of the dance than any of the dancing girls
who have whirled in London within the last few years.
Photographs of them in action show three laughing
maidens with flying hair and fluttering garments romping
along, hand-in-hand, in mid-air. At least that is the
picture as seen by the unemotional camera. There is no
sensation of tense muscles to suggest the comparison of
a harrier leaping a fence. They just look as though they
had danced right off the stage into the atmosphere. The
stage settings for their dances are color harmonies. For
one the background is composed entirely of peacock blue
hangings with an ample carpet, superimposed on
one of red, of which only the border is allowed to show.
For this, setting the form of the dancer is veiled in filmy
draperies, and she is crowned with a wreath of orange
flowers. In comparison with the Wiesanthal performance,
the rattle of the honest serio’s heels sounds very Stone
Agey; also the lady who shoulders her own nether
limb with difficulty, and laboriously kicks the back of her
own head resembles a tiresome contortionist.
Russell Oranfurd, an old-school actor who came to
Australia to support Laura Villiers in her disastrous
“ Woodbarrow Farm” and “Dancing Girl” venture in
the early'nineties, has published his “Ratnblings of an
Old Mummer.” Cranfurd was reared in the old “stock”
companies in the British “ provinces,” supporting Barry
Sullivan in Shakspeare one week, and Charles Matthews
in modern comedy the next. A co. would assemble one
morning and play a heavy drama the same evening.
One pair of white cotton tights (capable of being dyed)
saw the young actor through Shakspeare ; for society
drama he made a shirt front and a tie out of notepaper.
Barry Sullivan yelled to a slow super, “ What is your cue
to come in?” “Well, sir, Mr. Macready always said,
‘You blasted fool, come on!’” Stage snow used to be
swept up and used again. After the first night, dirt and
tin-tacks used to fall from the skies ; on the fourth night
it “ snowed a hammer,” and the frozen outcasts protested.
Cranfurd was in “ The Mystery of a Hansom Cab ” at Melb.
Alexandra, was advance agent for “ Hans the Boatman ”
all over Australia, and later supported Walter Bentley’s
first tour. He relnarks slanderously that “they manu-
facture a very poor sort of beer in Australia, as the water
is not good for brewing purposes”; and draws a mar-
vellous picture of Melba. “At night, after the perform-
ance, I have known her take a carriage and drive during
the night to Gippsland (!) or some place in the bush, to
hunt at daybreak for the small Australian bear.” Cran-
furd left his savings behind him for good in a butter-
factory in Maoriland.
“Cockaigne ” : The oddest of the new books is an auto-
biography of little George Washington Moore, known as
“ Pon v ” Moore, of the Moore and Burgess minstrels, so long
at St. James’Hall, London. He is 90 years old. Further,
he retired from biz with £1()0,0U0 when he was 80, up to
which time he corner-manned, end-manned, and boned.
He began business life as a kiddy tramcar money-taker in
New York. Then he joined Franeoni’s Parisian circus, on
a visit to that city. He was called “Pony ” Moore through
driving 40 ponies. Next he learnt the banjo, and
worked as a busker or wandering minstrel on steamboats
and in saloons. Went to London, and was engaged with
J. C. Rainer’s Ethiopian Serenaders, who afterwards
came to Australia, apparently without “ Pony.” Rainer is
well remembered in Sydney and Melbourne as entrepre-
neur of the American War Panorama, etc. The Moore and
Burgess Minstrels started in St. James’ Hall, London, for
a season of a few weeks, and stayed 40 years. Burgess
was business manager. Coppin offered £lO,OOO for a
brief tour of Australia, so it is reported. “No,” said
Moore, “We never perform out of London.” That was
the motto. “ Pony” was of the Johnny Toole mould, but
luckier. His chief’est pride, these days, consists in being
father-in-law to ex-champion pug. Mitchell, whose backers
put a head (with bricks and beer bottles) on Australia’s
Frank Slavin during a famous and disreputable scrap on
the Continent.
“Star”: When theatrical managers prohibited the
passing of bouquets up to actresses during the progress
of dramatic events, they brought about a very excellent
reform. But much more is demanded. The absolute
suppression of the bouquet as a gift-offering to actresses
in business hours is necessary to the comfort of cus-
tomers. The senseless procession of beans, peas and
cauliflower begi'ns When the play is ended nowanights,
and involves a serious inconvehience to two-thirds of the
people in the theatre. Their escape is blocked by the
other third standing stupidly to gape at some menial
handing masses of greenery up to the heroine, while the
other female operatives stand in line and smile dreadfully
because no garden truck comes to them. Twice I have
missed a last train through this deplorable parade of
botany, and it seems to me the superb actress should
have her dinner vegetables delivered at the back door by
the usual John Chow, just like any other reasonable
female.
“ 0.K.”: The term “flickergraph” will have to be
withdrawn from the moving picture shows. The best of
the films—and many are as good as the best nowadays—
neither flick nor wobble on the screen in, any appreciable
degree, save in cases where the photographer has worked
from a rocking boat or a bumpy railway line. Story pic-
tures, as a rule, are the steadiest, if the films be not old
and decrepit and the machine that reels them off be
established on a perfectly level surface. In the Melbourne
cine, shows I find that tlie flicker is the exception where
it was formerly the rule. Looking in at Hoyt’s Pictures,
at St. George’s Hall, my weary eye couldn’t detect any
irritating flaws or the least unsteadiness.
ADVICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Youth trifles gaily with Romance,
And flits upon his rosy way
From lip to lip, nor deigns to glance
At prosy Wisdom, old and gray,
Who counsels him to quit the dance,
And croaks of vanished Yesterday.
Then come the swift avenging years,
And Youth is Age, and, old and dim.
Sits in the shade, and wags and peers
Over his glasses’ horned rim.
While Joy derides his hopes and fears,
And so Time is revenged on him.
VICTORIA.
KODAK.


PALMER
CORD
TYRES.,
are Better —Stronger —and More Durable Tyres
than all others t
Their Immense popularity with Motorists Is suf-
ficient reason why YOU should Investigate their
merits before coming to a buying decision —
Catalogue and Price List on application.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 George Street, Sydney.
Be Cured of Rupture by the
Dr. J. A. Sherman Method.
Repeated failures to cure your rupture may have sapped all
strength and left you miserable and hopeless. But cheer up, for there
is a cure that will be effective on the most dangerous and long standing
rupture.
Dr. J. A. Sherman’s marvellous experience in this terrible affliction
has resulted in the establishment of a cure that has brought strength
and gladness to hundreds of hearts. As proof of this we can show
many testimonials from grateful clients. Here’s a sample—an extract
from a N.Z. letter :
“ Dear Sir,
“ I have great pleasure in letting you know how successful your rupture
cure has been in my case. I fail to find any indications of feelings of the trouble,
even after a long day’s walking or bicycle riding, so I am positive I have been
completely cured. Yours faithfully,
J. S. FAULKNER.”
Consultations are free, and we will be glad to give you very
definite proof of the efficacy of the treatment. Country sufferers
should take a day or two off and arrange a visit. If you cannot call
send for two books containing details and proof of the Sherman Method.
HOURS:—Daily (Sundays excepted), 10 a.m. to 12 noon ; 2 p.m. to
5 p.m. Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 12 noon. Extra hours:—
Friday evenings, 7 to 9.
BOTH SEXES ARE TREATED.
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller for Australasia of the Dr. J. A. Sherman Method,
Dept. B, Gibbs’ Chambers, 7 Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
LIQUEUR
• JO.O; m
OR***
NLiqueurWhisfe
*C*«*||i O.lT.lUr, l«
» *Wunm
•■WM oisnuLtiv
OtoNir SCOTL^ 0
?HAIE OLD SCOTCH WHl^
ru
Old
ORKNhv
r \ GOOD REASONS
*1 FOR TESTING
Every drop is bottled by our-
selves, thus—and thus only can
we guarantee its quality, age and
flavour.
The entire production of our
Century-old distillery is devoted
to Old Orkney.
The pure Spring water from the
heather-clad hills ofOrkney gives
to 0.0. its great superiority
We always hold a lOyears'supply
in our own bonded warehouses.
Thus, wherever you buy it, 0.0.
is always the same.
Write for beautiful booklet en-
titled “ Farthest North," and
nearest 0.0. Agent, sent post
fr«e from
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C.
> Proprietors of
Stromness Distillery,
. Orkney, Scotland. a
fdh
»
Tn
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS]
MAGNESIA
fdhfd
FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION ONLY. 20th October, 1909.
The Whole of the Issue of 23,000 Shares has been Applied For,
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF THE
Central Mount Balfour Copper Mines
NO LIABILITY.
To be Incorporated Under the No Liability Provisions of Part 11. of the Companies Act 1890.
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO. in 100,000 Shares of £1 Each.
Share o 0 n o Anotmen a r "° W ° ffered f ° r subscri P don at £1 Per Share, payable 10s. per share on Application and 10s. per
c£ areS ! Ul L y t 0 Mou " t Baltour M >nes No Liability, the Vendor to this Company.
22,500 Shares to be held in reserve for future issue. r J
a broker, theissuesubscribedforwin be placed to the credit of the Company, less flotation expenses and
a orokerage of 5 per cent, on the proceeds of the issue. v
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS :
Hon. William Knox, M.P., 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Bowes Kell}', Esq., Prell’s Building's, Queen Street, Melbourne.
William Jamieson, Esq., 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Harvey Patterson, Esq., Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Herman Henry Sehlapp, Esq., 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
MANAGER:
John Brandon (Rollason, Brandon & Co.), 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
PROVISIONAL AUDITORS:
Edward H. Shaekell, P.C.P.A., 375 Collins Street, Melbourne.
G. Schoen Davies, F.C.P.A., 31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BANKERS:
The Bank of Victoria Limited, Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOLICITOR :
Arthur Phillips, 60 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS:
Messrs. Tolhurst, Keats and Cumming, 48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Messrs. E. L. and C. Baillieu, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company is being formed to acquire Mineral Lease Number 2177/M, containing 80 acres, in the vicinity of
Mount Balfour, County of Russell, and Number 2090/M, containing 40 acres, in the vicinity of Mount Balfour
bounty of Russell. *
The lands comprised in the two leases adjoin, and are situated near the township of Balfour, on the north-west
coast of Tasmania, on the Mount Balfour Copper Field, and adjoining the Reward Claim of Messrs. Murray Brothers
The following works have been earned out by the vendors : '
Crosscutting and driving, 1730 feet.
Trenching, 494 feet.
Sinking, 83 feet.
The manager of the vendor-company has from time to time reported highly of the various developments, and in
which is Is r foilows S -- rom a " ,ndependent source > Mr - R - w - Powell, jun., was instructed to examine and report,
REPORT BY Mr. R. W. POWELL, Jun.
Mount Balfour,
To the Directors of the 13th october > 10 09.
MOUNT BALFOUR MINES NO LIABILITY,
Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —
In accordance with your instructions, I have examined Mining Leases 2177 and 2090, the property of the Balfour
Mines, and now beg to hand you my report on same. e e j c u “ uuur
, I'OCATKIN. "“The leases are situated at Mt. Balfour, on the north-west coast of Tasmania, about 13 miles east
from Whales Head, which is the present port for the field.
ACREAGE.—Mining Lease 2177, 80 acres ; 2090, 40 acres ; total, 120 acres.
OUTCROPS.—There are in the forrn of white honeycombed quartz, and in most cases there is no visible trace of
copper which is due to the great leaching which has taken place. No sign of any oxidised ore is visible on any of
the lodes I ba ' o e seen ;in places, sulphides make their appearance a few feet below the surface, and in others at from
that depth to 25 feet. The course of the lodes is about 20 degrees west of north, and the dip about 50 degrees to the
west. The country rock is principally schist and slate. b
TIMBER. An abundant supply for mining and steam purposes is close handy to the mines. Mining timber
landed on the mine costs 3d. a foot, and laths 20s. per 100. h
WAGES. —10s. per shift all round.
TRANSPORT CHARGES.—UntiI tramway or railway communication is made, material lias to be carted from
Whales Head at the rate of 50s. per ton lam informed that Messrs. Murray Bros, are now having a route surveyed
for a wooden tram between here and Whales Head and this will effect a saving of over £2 a ton on their ore shipments.
MINE WORKINGS. LEASE 2177. The Main Tunnel is driven on the east side of Emmett’s Creek, and is 56
feet north of Murray’s boundary line, and is now in 367 feet. The first ore seen is at the 77 feet mark which is the
hanging wall of what is termed the Western Ore Body. The footwall is met at the 115 feet mark, making this ore
body one with a width of 38 feet. The ore body consists principally of quartz and schist, through which are dis-
tnbuted rich seams of secondary sulphides, covellite and glance.
At the 115 feet mark they drove north and south 163 feet and 21 feet respectively, and are in rich ore for the
whole of this distance (or 190 feet in length), with good ore still in both faces J r
At 56 feet in the North Drive a crosscut is in west Hi feet, showing 15^-feet of very good ore, and the hanging
wall not reached yet, thus proving the ore body to be maintaining its width and value b *
From the 115 feet mark, in the Main Tunnel, to the 144 feet mark, 29 feet of formation matter is passed through
which is principally schist, carrying a few nice veins of rich secondary sulphides. h ’
From the 144 feet mark the tunnel passes through 13 feet more of lode matter, principally iron sulphides
through which is distributed fair copper pyrites, and in the workings driven north and south on this some verv rich
seams of ore have been met with. J
From the 157 feet mark to the 173 feet low grade quartz matter is passed through, and from there to the face
alternate bands of quartzite and schist. Thus, on following the various measurements from the hanvinw wall of the
western ore body to the 173 feet mark, a channel of 96 feet of lode matter carrying good values is pasWthrough, and
from this 96 feet on the lode and the various drives and crosscuts I estimate there is 1000 tons of copper ore which
will average 12 per cent. Ou. at grass. 1 f
With a little dressing a large quantity of this can be dressed up to 30 per cent
No 1 TRENCH, on the western ore body, is situated 163 feet north of the Main Tunnel, and passes through 15
ieet or lode matter. r ®
No. 2 TRENCH is 1000 feet north of the Main Tunnel, and here 32 feet of lode matter is passsd through and
in this some very rich ore is to be seen, even though it is practically at the grass roots
A tunnel has been started lower down the hill, which will give 75 feet of backs' It is now in 54 feet and in
another 100 feet of driving should intersect the lode. This appears to me to be on the same line as the eastern ore
bodies encountered in the Main Tunnel, as the western ore body appears to be running into the flat west of this It
isvau important development, and proves the ore to be continuing north, though, of course, there is room for blanks •
still, it may be the start of another chute.
Various other trenches and shallow tunnels have been put in on the eastern runs of crops, and although thev
revealed nothing of importance with depth some may prove to carry good ore, for on comparing them with the out-
crops over the Main Tunnel workings and Murray Bros.’ workings, they are exactly the same, and thoroughly warrant
development work on them deeper. ° J
t p„-^ A^ E i o 9 o ,^ H K er . e a sr°od deal of exploratory work has been done on the lodes running in a direct line with
those on Lease -177, but sufficient work has not been done to prove that they are the same lodes. MURRAY’S TUN-
NEL is the first I will deal with. It is driven 402 feet, and towards the end of it 60 feet of lode matter is passed
passed through, and at M 2 feet to 174 feet another 12 feet of" lode matter is passedthrough'W Mew narrow
seains of fair (ire. In driving south they did not prove anything larger, and I would recommend sinking.
SUMMARY.—Briefly, the mine at the present time may be said to be in its earlv development s7ace hut the
result of the work done on the southern end is most encouraging, and with the excellent show of ore one cannothdp
being impressed with its possibilities. To the south of you there are Murray Bros.’ leases, from which 1100 tons of
over 30 per cent, ore have been shipped, and 3000 or 4000 tons of good grade seconds are at grass, and your mine
looks equally as well as theirs. & J
Working facilities are good ; the ground is soft and requires little timbering, and has not averaged more than
14s. per foot to drive up to date. With the tram line to Whales Head a large quantity of the ore can be shim ed
away at a handsome profit, but this is a matter to he dealt with later. I should say, if the mine develops as vvJll in
the future as it lias done up to the present, you will have your own smelters®. *
To conclude, I consider this to be a first-class mining risk, which promises more than the usual returns from
similar first-class mining ventures.
Yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) R. W. POWELL, Jun.
Government MjgSjb Notice.
DEPARTMENT OF LANDS, SYDNEY, 25th OCTOBER, 1909.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT.
BOREE CREEK ESTATE.
Lockhart to Clear Hills Railway now being constructed.
URANA LAND DISTRICT.
.. The 22 unselected farms will become available at reduced
' prices on and after
Bth NOVEMBER, 1909.
Refund of half fares allowed on N.S.W. Railways to
applicants ; and further concessions to successful applicants,
their families and belongings.
Full particulars, maps, etc., obtainable on application from
the INQUIRY BRANCH, Department of Lands, Sydney,
or any Crown Land Agent throughout the State.
ROBERT McDONALD, Under-Secretary.


- r - .
ms
■ -A-r’
'
~¥
wm
p
%
> ■
<? -;
S\V
•W
Si
>■-. ■
"T
rm
If you are
thirsty
try a
glass
i of
«9
♦
LIME
JUICE.
“MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
HADE IN TWO KINDS -
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime'Ju.ce.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
*EG U.s.ptf
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
REAM ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are* the
largest makers of ready roofing, in.
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe S Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
ASTHMACURE
EMITS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bv all Chernitts.
HAVE vou tried this beautiful SKIN PREPARATION?
VERONIQUE. WE ONLY WISH YOU TO TRY A
SMALL JAR—the result will be so gratifying- to you that
you would not be without it for one day. Every French-
woman who values her complexion uses VERONIQUE. It
does wmnders for them, and - will do -the same for you.
VERONIQUE makes the skin smooth, soft and white, re-
moves blemishes, and so nourishes the skin that wrinkles
disappear. VERONIQUE costs 3s. per small and ss. pet-
large jar. Obtainable from the Sole Agents onlj': THE
AUSTRALIA MANICURE AND TOILET ROOMS, 42a
Castlereagh Street (over Medlow Bath Hydro Offices),
exactly opposite the Hotel Australia. Entrance through
large doorway. Here also are the finest Manicure Rooms
in Sydney. Add 6d. for postage.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
SEEMES -
pawam
Wm
liWlinMiiii.lllllUmiaiiiiiiil
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves beforepurse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, w ith
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free any-
where, 2/- Do not miss this chance of obtaining
one of the best and most useful puzzles ever
produced.
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to give the match-
cadjrer a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
hfd
The JOKER’S INDIARUBBER SNAKE.
One of our most successful surprise novelties.
Folds up' in a very small space, and can be held
in a closed hand without being' noticed. Springs
out of the hand in a most natural way. Made
of indiarubber, and is absolutely unbreakable.
Causes heaps of amusement. Price 1/3 post
free anywhere.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—New Edition
fust published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H X, HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Havmarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford S tr-e et, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
post cards
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, 6d.
Combine Business with Pleasure.
"Moko” Matchbox & Race Game
Very Fascinating and Exciting.
Only 1/6, Postage Paid.
Which Horse Wins the Race ?
If you would like a really
pood novelty—write for our
“ MOKO” Combined
Matchboxes & Race
Games, which we
have just received. In
appearance they are
precisely identical to
an ordinary Watch.but
in place of the watch
dial and hands there is
a pretty spinning
wheel, on which five
numbered horses are
painted. By pressing
the little lever at the
side, this spinning
wheel is set in motion
3fe
. ■
at a high rate of speed. Endless excitement
and speculation is afforded by guessing which
horse will be at the winning post when the
spinning wheel ceases revolving, it being impos-
sible to te'l which horse will win. .
The receptacle for the matches is on the
reverse side of ihe illustration. It is beautifully
finished in Nickel, with the front protected by
glass : very strongly made and entirely new to
Australia. You can attach it to your Watch
Chain, and we guarantee you will get more fun
and entertainment and use out of it than
anything else in the market'
Price 1/6 post free to any address
Write for our Big 100 Pnge Cataiogu e ° other
Novelties. Games. Toys. Tricks, R ?bl3er Stamps
Bicycles, etc. The biggest thing of .ts kind ever
published in Australia.
A. J. Smith &
Cn 338-340 Kent St.
Sydney.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
*&!
I
g
22
hfdhfd
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment* it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Alienburys” Foods for Infant
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
N!
!
3
3P
’J*
\\
m
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to 1 the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
R. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BEL
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£5OO REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit JSSOO to anyone proving
the contrai*y.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
ALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your
name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R.
OFFICE HOURS: & am. to 5.30 p.m.
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Feee Illustkated Book.
Name
Address


“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Way back Book you are bound to read, Is.
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
a
w.
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHEP.
soee
AGENTS :
J.H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
!
M
K'.
<n>y.
I
I
A
g?
V
-•* #
**&**>
X
%
#
% %
%
| To make farming pay property
jS GOT£t&yMse engine power
>for your heavy work,
yj:j-Take mjf started
Wut;:byfusing;-art Engine I'd still be
paddocks
hat have for yean : past been making
hod 7 jpifofits for me in first-class
crops.
a
Now when you're buying your engine there's
one thing you want to bear in mind—THE MORE
YOU USE IT THE BETTER IT WILL PAY
YOU TO OWN.
That's why I bought a ‘BUFFALO PITTS.'
They’ve plenty of power but are so wonderfully
light by comparison that you can use them when
the ground's so bad that you wouldn't dream
of taking one of the heavier types out of
the shed. (
Why I would never have got through'
s£he work my ‘Buffalo' has done, with a ;
/heavy engine, or at ten times the money\
using men and horses,
hat she did for me: —rolled down the
b; pulled down dead timber; grubbed
s and hauled the heavy logs to the
light
out st
saw benifp; plowed every acre I’ve got under cultivation,
furrows Jill the time—some of it in terribly stiff land
under per acre.
rss £ y
iwipg fourteen
aft. averapa^yt
I
J4^f lde the drains with her and of course use her t<r<dfiv'e
'PI
YOfy know what the roads are like around here, and jjetJFOe always
'jdone bit of my heavy carting with her . j /J
% What with chaffcutting, plowing, hauling, and dozens ofjfo'dd jobo
tfprdly ever a day when I'm not using her. f y
f eas y on and first-rate hill climfkrs. can't
uffalo’ for general farm work.
'f A tlsphew of mine about a hundred miles out is buying one. | \
| He if getting it just as cheaply and even on easier terfns thfyn / got
tpine, jnnd mine were so easy that she more than earned jier 6jwn \ pay\
fpentf before they fell due." f j
2RO
Send to INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Launceston, for Descriptive Cata-
logue and Further Particulars.
HE ARNE 'S
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
THe Famous Remedy for
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice and lll* compl ® te ™ re ' !t ‘ s u most comforting in allaying Irritation,
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” OOl ‘^ sthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
medicine. No house should be without it as taken at th°e Wrm ’ * j 6ir fILSt a PP earance > been properly treated with this
cure is certain. ’ ’ tak6n at the be ° inmn g. a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
Small Size, 2,6; Large Size, 46. Sold bv nil
Chemist, Geelong,, Victoria. w^e^
O'
Food.
in the preparation of Benger s Food the natural digestive principles
aie combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
m tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
The Religious Editor writes :—-
Tiik Bulletin has not yet discovered the pirate who
has retired from the bounding sea to end his career as a
suburban greengrocer ; all the same, it is positive that he
lives and will yet be discovered. Possibly he will win t fie
cornet solo at a South-street competition, and in a burst
of confidence and conceit toll the story of his past life-
The nearest approach to‘the ex-pirate greengrocer it has,
so far, discovered, was the retired bushranger Larry Cum-
mins, who lived for many peaceful years on the Wodonga
Flats as V Mr. James Long,” and the other day he died
peacefully in his bed. The old inhabitant usually has
nothing to warrant the publication of his demise save the
dull record of having remained in the same spot for 70
years; however, it. could be truthfully said of
Larry that he had been a star bushranger, and had
narrowly escaped hanging. The troubles of Larry began in
the early ’sixties, when his brother was arrested for horse-
stealing. He organised a rescue expedition, and wavlaid
the escort of two troopers on the way to Binda (N.S.W.)
lockup. There was a fight.'and the rescue looked like
succeeding when Larry, in aiming at one of the con-
stables, shot the prisoner dead. He was captured later
on, tried for. manslaughter, and sentenced to imprison-
ment for life in Berrima Gaol. After a time he managed
to escape, and fled back to his old haunts near Binda,
where he went.into business as a bushranger. His
most notable exploit was the sticking up of
tpe . Mudgee coach and the collection of £2OO
M! al< * of himself. Afterwards he made his head-
quarters at the Limerick Hotel, near Peelwood'
and Laggan. The police, disguised as diggers, made an
attepipt to get him, but only managed toniortally wound
an honest bushman. Long got clear away. They caught
nirii afterwards at Goulburn, where he was tried and
sentenced to a long term in Parramatta Gaol. He tried
to escape from Parramatta by secreting himself in a rub-
bish cart and getting some of the other prisoners to heap
refuse on him. - TtVS cart, with the man concealed in it,
rolled unehallehged through thegates to the remote dust-
heap below the walls, and the load was dumped down as
gently as possible. Then the cart went back, and Larrv
crawled out and started toclear. But his leg had been hurt
> n dumping process, and the stench and suffocation
had made him giddy and sick. A sharp-eyed warder
detected the frightfully dirtv object crawling off, and he
was recaptured and haled back. Followed some mono-
tonous years of gaol life until Hercules Robinson dealt
out several packs of free pardons. Gardiner and Cum-
mins were among the bushrangers who were let loose
agkm. Cummins should have closed down firmly on the
outlaw business then ; but the fires of wickedness hadn’t
quite burnt themselves out. \yith a number of other horse
thieves he joined in the picturesque enterprise of
stealing the imported stallion, Duke of Athol,
from Mr. Tindall, a Mudgee squatter. The animal
was spirited artistically away and was never re-
covered. Some- time afterwards fragments of a horse
greatly resembling the Duke were found burned in the
mountains, but it was a palpably false trail, and an
examination of the skull showed* that the murdered
beast had been no aristocrat. The stolen Duke was
piloted successfully into Queensland, where his swift
descendants have since proved the rapidity of the
Athol strain on many courses. The Athol exploit
oi? S a k°ut the finish of Larry’s lurid period.
Shortly afterwards he subsided ingloriously into a dull-
brovvn, matter-of-fact existence in Gippsland, Victoria.
His last years were spent, as stated, near Albury, where
‘ he made whips and did odd jobs of droving for a living.”
It is a calm, cheap epitaph for a man with his record,
a nd shows how profitless is the life of the bail-up artist
who isn’t in the dairying line.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.vS.W.
S7>e LEADING
HOUSE
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting’ Goods
Fishing TacKle &. Toisaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
“WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (xcepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
i
AW**
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever=increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: J. & R. NIORLEY & CO. and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
=TH‘'
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion ”
the ouly machine on the
market covered by a
■written guarantee for
five vears.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ’
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and pun*
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AHA
500 FREE MACHINES. _ , '
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to everv applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a’Practical Demonst at on of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and p pu ar
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for and nothing to pav on the machine after you receive it. Weclaim that this is
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-vear guarantee by the makers, and 1
Guarantee is sent with everv machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope s<
mav advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and a
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO-AUSTRAUAN IMPORTING CO., OPP.0 PP . C.P.0., Sydney,
the only
i written
of these
3 that we
awarded
bsolutely
fI.S.W,
I
3
OUR
Special
Snap.
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
“KEYBRAND” FISH HOOKS.
M34—Mustad’s Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong
"“■ 'f/ 3 ft ft ft ft fto $ 2? ft ft Vs p«r 100-
“sr'ir-ir “sr * w l -' *v~ **
1/1 1/2 1/6 1/8 1/10 2/2 2/4 2/S
M2o—Mustad’s Best Bright Hooks, Kirby Bent, Ringed XX Strong-
Nos. 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0
9d. lOd. lid. 1/1 1/3 l/o 1/8 2/-
3/- 3/8 per 100.
9/0
2/4 per 100.
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
An Unequalled Nerve and Brain Food
PLASMON
Contains
The Organic Salts and Phosphorus of Milk
in a. natural sufficiency without the need of any
artificial addition of phosphates.
Totteridge, near High Wycombe.
I have taken two cups of Plasmon Cocoa, four teaspoonfuls of Plasmon Powder
and a few of the Biscuits and some Plasmon Chocolate daily, and I can now get
through the day with very little fatigue Nurse KINGSLEY.
Plasmon Is Used by the Royal Family,
and has received the commendation and support of Medical
Men, Explorers and Athletes in every part of the Globe.
vs
[laae
ON
>tbade mark.
PLASMON
is the Best Pant of Nature’s Best Food Milk, and added
to food increases the nutritive value enormously—LANCET.
PLASMON, PLASMON COCOA, PLASMON CHOCOLATE.
PLASMON BISCUITS, ETC. Of all Chemists, Grocers and Stores.
PLASMON, Ltd., London. Australian Depot— 5 & 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
hfd
A MONEYMAKER for Hotelkeepers.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Sodawater at 3d. per dozen.
We guarantee the Machine to do the work.
A FORTUNE for ENTERPRISING HOTELKEEPERS
Complete Outfits from £l5. Sold on Easy Terms.
Soda Fountains and Carbonators to suit Chemists and
Confectioners. Write to-day.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.,
167 GEORGE STREET, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1008 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. Howto Out Rich, Is posted. Du. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. .All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Cd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.,
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Ra ymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver's Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beautys
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
RosariQt 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to*
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is _d. new
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is6d.
§ 9
t m
mss
m
i
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
IIUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. HoVle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Trainin'}, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, llkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of tiik First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 95 Tears.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY, COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, «L
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, 1?. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan s
Freemasonry Exi'osed, Key to all Degrees, IJO6
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, set
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Bong
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. vv.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is Cd posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post- 100 new
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Largs un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, ciotn
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Pame,
posted, Is 2d- WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY..
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)


STRENGTH COMES
Not from What You Cat, but
from What You Digest.
MOST PEOPLE eat. all kinds of foods without discrimination. Few stop to
think what that food does for them. This is the first turn on the road to
yspepsia. Reckless disregard of the proper choice of foods, rapid eating and
impiopu mastication, are the unquestioned causes of all stomach disorders from the slight ache
Take one
rWENTY MINUTES
before.
ONE
AFTER.
to the malignant cancer.
There is nothing more revolting than a dyspeptic
stomach—a very vat for putrefaction, sending forth its
poisons throughout the entire system, depressing the
brain, befouling the breath, souring the taste, deaden-
ing the muscles, incapacitating the liver and kidneys
for their work, debilitating the heart, choking the
lungs, and clogging the bowels.
All of these disagreeable and dangerous conditions
are due to the improper digestion of food and the con-
sequent assimilation of poison. What else can be
expected ? If the food lies in the stomach, if the
system is constipated, fermentation is the natural
outcome. It shows itself in sour water risings,
belchings, heartburn and painful breathing.
There is only one way to relieve this condition. If
the stomach refuses to digest your food, put something
into it that will. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are
nothing but digestives. They work when the stomach
will not.
These TABULES are sold everywhere at 2/6 for a
tin, containing EIGHTY TABULES. Buy a tin,
eat a good square meal, and then take the TABULES
according to directions, and note the result. You w ill
forget all about it if you are not careful, for there will
be NO PAIN or disturbance, and the food will be
DIGESTED just as it used to be when your
STOMACH was WELL and STRONG. Further-
more, your stomach will soon be restored again, if you keep on taking them, just
upon t lousands of oilier stomachs have been by the.sole and exclusive use of
as thousands
Sheldons
Price 2lj&
Digest what you eat.
?
> i
S<
IVER Trouble
Suffered for 3 Long Years—
Many Treatments Proved Useless.
pOR three long years Mrs. Hambridge, of
“Victoria Villa,” Oberon Street, Randwick,
Sydney, suffered from a disordered liver in the
form of prostrating bilious attacks, headache, and
heartburn. But, after all other treatments utterly failed.
Bile Beans for Biliousness—the world’s greatest specific for
all liver ailments completely cured Mrs. Hambridge, and
restored her to health and strength. If you suffer from any of
die following symptoms of Liver trouble, it is a sign that YOU,
100, need a course of Bile Beans to put you right.
When you wake up in the morning, is your tongue coated
with a thick fur? Is there a bitter taste in your mouth, and a
-ood" g nausea , ? Do . y°" feel heav y arid tir «d, as if your night’s rest has done you no
ness nalnh'T 1 haVe S'ckheadache? Are you jaundiced ? Are you troubled with giddi-
ou» or * d ““ p “ i ” in “ ,e “ ,d " A - d *- «-■
•V rlghfc ’ restore lt; s natural functions, and, incidentally, your failing health J "
jysis.srxrsss
c“red M B °wl of T?® Tf MgMy ° f them ’ and menti ™ed that they had
cured of Biliousness, for grateful .to 1 WaS thoroilglll y
The Standard Family Medicine.
Bile Beans are
the only genuine
and reliable
remedy for Bil-
iousness, Head-
ache, Indiges-
tion, Constipa-
tion, Piles, Bad
Blood (Pimples,
etc.), Offensive
Breath, Fulness
After Meals,
Nausea, Belch-
ing, Dizziness,
Debility, etc. Ob-
tainable from
all Chemists and
Stores at 1/14 and
2/9 per box; (■, he
2,9 size contains
three times the
vu->
Do not gamble with your health by accepting
substitutes. Bile Beans have stood the test of time,
and are the PROVED CURE for all Liver, Stomach,
and Digestive troubles. ONE BEAN-ONE DOSE.
MS
It
HM
N S ' ' T
Rtff ;S SfS
*
O
mmmtWßi
FOR
*. M *
The Singing Memnon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OF stone, the grey stone from the heart of
the world, was I builded
To a shape that was hewn of the mind of
a man, and his labor ;
And they set me, that £ of the dawn should be
flooded and gilded,
On a pillar of granite, to call the new day to my
neighbor.
The priest of the oracle crowned me and poured a
libation ;
He called on the gods to behold their high
servant’s adorning,
Who would move never more from the place thus
appointed his station,
But would sit with his face to the eastward,
saluting the morning.
Now the priest of the oracle is but the dust in the
heather,
Disintegrate, lost in new forms and thechano-es
of matter ; °
His atoms drift hither and thither, apart and
together;
As wide as the poles and as deep as the sea do
they scatter.
And the Ptolemies-though the sarcophagus vie
with the ages,
Bound by the art of embalmers, and sealed as to
ashlar and portal,
Postpone but the action of Time, and the change
and decay of its stages—
Are dissipate still in the end, as ever was every-
thing mortal. J
fhe seed of the cedar and palm, the seed of the
hsh and the camel,
Are a, link in Eternity’s chain, that, as it began
shall diminish;
From the cell to the myriad-cell, from the diatom
up to the mammal ;
And retrograde, back to the dust, in what it
began shall it finish.
But I that am builded of stone, and am old of
the infinite aeons,
Preserving the integral form and the human
phantasma of features,
Shall last out to ages remote, still chanting to Eos
my paeans
r iiil the earth ne wrapped round in its night,
iiiiu purged of the blight of its creatures.
Yea, down to the furthermost step that shall lead
the world no whit thither,
When the sun shall itself be blank, and the east
lie bereft of adorning,
Beneath the deep rock that was air, when no dim
ray comes to me hither,
Shall the mouth of a stone god sing of a phantom
forgotten morning.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.
By Rail and Semaphore.
IN D MINOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VYTHEN- Manager Garth first came to
f J Romalmpa Section, that portion of
Maoriland Railways was in despair,
for it had heard of the tall, burly officer as a
tyrant of the worst sort, who was possessed of a
mania to break the record in the dismissal of
officers. It talked at first of organising a general
strike against his taking over of the section, and
then went on to discuss the making of time-fuse
and clockwork bombs. Finally it appointed an
hour of mutual prayer, and the whole section
from Popatunoa in the south to Port Paotamariki
in the north was invited to pray for his removal
at 8 p.m. precisely on the evening of the Thursday
he took charge.
At 7.59 p.m. someone called L.S. (which means,
m telegraphic abbreviation, All Stations), and, as
the hand of the clock trembled on to the hour, the
instrument clicked solemnly, “May the Lord
stiffen him.” And every station clicked, “Amen.”
As the line of men 200 miles long was rubbing
its collective hands at the joke, there came another
m Pf rem P toi y' L.S.—the call of the
i. rathe Office. The smile died away, each station
acknowledged its attendance in a furtive way •
then there was a long pause, broken only by an
occasional L.S. from the Traffic Office to keep
possession of the wire. Then came the message.
“Manager Garth has heard the prayer, and
regrets to find that the staff is prejudiced against
him. He now desires to inform members of the
staff generally that every officer doing his duty
faithfully and fearlessly vvill find him a true friend,
and receive all the assistance and support the
traffic manager is capable of rendering. Drunken
and careless officers may expect no mercy, and the
rule of the future is that of impartial justice.”
It was a bit theatrical, but it impressed the staff
amazingly, and caused a strong revulsion of feel-
ing in the new manager’s favor in the minds of
those who did their work properly. They looked
forward to a better time, for “Old Morality ” had
about as much sense of justice as a Yildiz Kiosk
eunuch, and the section under his management
reeked with corruption and chicanery.
That the times were troublous there was no
doubt. Manager Garth had come to sift the
wheat from the chaff and reform things gener-
ally. The staff was torn into two factions—Garth
and anti-Garth—and the best men on it were
"“hind the manager, whose first step was to stem
the flood of beer that was threatening to reduce
the machine to a wreck.
It was a big problem, but Garth took off his
coat, gripped it with both hands, and waded in.
Ihere \yas no sudden blow, no disorganisation of
the section. As far as the staff was concerned,
there seemed to be no difference between his
management and that of “Old Morality.” Both
seemed to do nothing but travel up and
down the section. “Old Morality” had always
travelled in the height of comfort; but Garth
came down anyhow, on the shades of evening or
the wings of the morning, by ballast train, night
goods and velocipede. Personally, he was not
known to the staff, and they were none the wiser
when a tall, burly man, his top-coat buttoned
up about his ears, mooned about the platform and
noted that the tired-looking cadet or sub-station-
master worked early and late shifts the same
week. Several times drunken stationmasters
threatened to hand him over to the police when
they caught him strolling round the sidings ex-
amining the points, till they were crushed by the
curt intimation that he was Mr. Garth, traffic
rZ I '' > But lS was seldoni that was dis-
dntpf.V mT SL nter ! a,ld particularly severe
ar HfK ‘i ! at ’ , lh r e Wlnds w ere laden with ice,
was half frozen, and the
rltVL kept u , utller co Y el ' as much as possible. If it
ward ar l fh»°f nßate u St J' al)g , er beatin £ U P to wind-
. le /ar end of a shingle-covered yard, it
merely cursed him and let him beat. So, long
SS" 410 . staff knew the section was being
oioughly inspected, the manager had got a com-
on it gnP ° f the cbarac4er of the chief officers
Weedin ? 004 began. Stationmasters
denlv rt • a,t the . C)olce country towns sud-
denly received intimations to hold themselves in
lead in ess for transfer. The first sign that a new
man was on deck was when Winter, of Mokanui,
met the last train one night in a state of beastly in-
toxication, and, having nothing better to occupy
ns mind, called up Horonui on the wire and
hied off a series of Rabelaisan anecdotes. Just
~, 4be n ” ddle one particularly peppery joke the
Iraffic Office chipped in and asked questions, and
two hours later the S.M. was startled to receive a
visit from the manager himself. Garth had caught
the last suburban train, and run down from the
junction on a ballast online.
Whiter hiccoughed at him, admitted he was
c.-uight; like a trout,” and slapped the manager
“'old b(,y ”°u d er , addressln £ him familiarly as
Next week Winter was sacked, with a month’s
salary instead of notice.
m,l r thl Sfe \f Wenk u n unceasingly for about three
months. Many old and disrespected officers were
shifted right off the section. A few were retired
receiving a month’s salary for each year of service.’
Manager Garth reckoned their room was cheap at
any price. In six months’ time he had all the
haul-working, reliable men in the responsible
hiJlets, and what rotters he could not weed out
owing to political and social influence in Welling
ton, were carefully stowed away where they could
clo nothing worse than get run over—which one of
them promptly did.
When this result had been achieved the section
woke up to the fact that Garth was an ideal
manager.
If ever there was a golden age on Romahapa
Section it was while Manager Garth sat in the
big room at the Traffic Office. The farmers and
many of the ‘‘business” people were under
the impression that things would go better if the
railways were run by a private company, and the
papers were full of letters pointing out what a
splendid income the country would make if it
leased the lines or sold them outright. Whether
they paid or not, the co. would have to pay its
rent, and the State would not stand to lose any-
thing. Resides, everybody knew that private
management was ever so much cheaper and more
efficient than Government control.
Ihe agitation was reaching dangerous propor-
tions. Good commercial management ” was the
cry, and leagues and associations were beinc
formed in every district. These bodies all had
the same idea that all that was required to make
the railways pay, and so enable taxation to be re-
duced, was “good commercial management,” by
which was meant a reduction in the salaries of the
stati.
Alanager Garth had a long correspondence with
Wellington, and at last succeeded in getting his
way. I fie people of the Romahapa district
wanted ‘ commercial” management—well, thev
should have it Vague but lavish announcements
were made to that effect. The associations were
gratified. Manager Garth was eulogised as bein' l,
the three-cornered man in an equilateral triangle"
A few weeks after this announcement "the
Romahapa Farmers and Settlers’ Progress As-
sociation waited on the manager with a view to
obtaining a special district rate on flour for ex-
port. It was pointed out to the manager that a
considerable trade in flour was done with South
America, and that if it were fostered by a special
district rate on flour for export, meaning thereby
a reduced rate, the trade would increase by leaps
and bounds.
Manager Garth was cordiality itself. He re-
gretted that he could not ask the deputation to
take whisky, or refreshment of any kind ; he was
gomg m for commercial management, and had
abolished all that sort of frill. With regard to
the proposal to make a special reduced rate for
Hour for export, it was quite impossible. The
trade with South America was established, and he
had ascertained that three of the mills in which
the members of the Association were interested
were under contract to supply Chilian firms with
a stated quantity, and no matter what the freights
were those contracts must be kept. The people
had demanded ‘commercial management.” and
the peop e were supreme. He produced figures
to show that at the rates charged for the last three
years the Department had not made a penny out
of the carriage of the thousands of tons of flour
exported, and the general taxpayer had been com- :
pelled to make good the wear and tear of the i
rolling stock and the maintenance of the per-
munent way out of taxation. An increased rate
of 4s. per ton would have yielded workino l ex-
penses and a trifle towards interest. An increase
of os. fid. would have yielded a handsome profit
on the transaction. He pointed out that had the
fines been run by a private company the rate
would probably have been Bs. 6d. per ton more.
Ihen he shovyed how in the free and glorious
U.o.A. the railroads said to the representatives
ot a million farmers: “Gentlemen, you have
either to sell your wheat or let it rot.
It it rots you 11 starve, and if you won’t
pay just what we like to charge you, it
will rot. Therefore, gentlemen, you will
pay, because you can do nothing else but starve.”
And then Manager Garth regretted that instead
of any reduction there would shortly be an increase
in the rate.
The deputation withdrew in a dazed manner
and some of it was locked up that night for beim*
drunk and disorderly. n
In another six months’ time the people knew all
about commercial management ”; they had
received a surfeit of it. *
•
Then one day Romahapa Section was plunged
in gloom. Manager Garth lay sick unto death,
and to relieve the pressure of inquiries the Traffic
Office wired bulletins of his condition every two
houre. It was 4 p.m. when the sounders clicked
out the fatal message, “ Sinking fast.” Tfia win-
try night came down with a rush ; all over the
Romahapa Section were wild storms of wind and
a tremendous downpour of rain. The men hung
the'fi n m hnbT bul ,} dlr !« s - wai4in S to hear what
the 6 p.m. bulletin should say, but the wait was
shortened ; at 5.40 the Traffic Office called L.S.
three times and then muttered, “Died at 5.15 ”
* * . # *
The Garth family burying ground was in the
little cemetery at Rangihape (Maori for “the
Heavens Opened ), where the northern line ran
down through gloomy bluestone cuttings to where
(Continued on next page.)


STOP IT NOW.
Stop that Backache, for
Backache is Kidney-ache.
lH
>1
&
<7
fl
\
% %i\
\u—■
; ;
Every
Picture
TeUs a
Story ”
The easiest time, the right time, the only safe time to protect
yourself against fatal kidney complications is when the first
sio-n appears, for kidney complaint comes on unnoticed, and
iUs bound to end fatally if neglected. Take no risks with
your health, but begin with Doan’s Backache Kidney 1 llis a
the first sign of anything wrong. Doan’s Pills are a special
medicine and a sure cure for every disorder of the kidneys or
connective system.
Sydney Women Cured.
ARTARMON
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road, Artar-
rnon, Sydney, says: —“I suffered for a long
time with severe pains in any back. They
were so bad that I could scarcely move about.
Rest was out of one question. I would be
tossing about all night, moaning with the
pain. I could not bend my back, and I had to
neglect my work. I was really very ill, and
would be confined to bed for days at a time.
I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills adver-
tised as a cure for backache, and got a box.
After a few doses I got relief, and then gradu-
ally I got better, until I was quite cured.
There is no doubt about it being a cure, for it
is three years since I stopped taking the pills,
I’ve not had the backache all that time.
LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says:—“lean strongly recom-
mend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for curing
pains in the small of the hack. A member of
my family was suffering severely, and it was
difficult to move about at all. I blame sitting
too close at work for causing the trouble. Ihe
pills effected a permanent cure, for there is no
sign of the ailment now. ’
Mrs. Lawson makes a second statement six
years later :—“The above is quite true, and
time has proved that Doan s Backache Kidney
Pills not only cure, but cure permanently.
There would be less suffering in the world if
people only knew the value of this remedy.
For sale by
posted
all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 91 per bottle (six bottles, 15s. 3d.), or will be
i receipt of price by FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
\
\
itching Piles Cured
by Doan’s Ointment.
Mr. Peter A. Dunn, retired postmaster,
now living with his daughter, who is post-
mistress at Gordon, Sydney, writes: “I
furnish you herewith, unsolicited, my experi-
ence of the use of Doan’s Ointment. lam in
my sixty-third year, and was for twenty years
subject to itching piles. The pain and irrita-
tion of this complaint were very hard to bear.
Twelve years ago a chemist at Deniliquin told
me that he had tried various remedies, but did
not know of a care for this complaint. And
I’ve heard the same remark from various
medicoes. Therefore, I tried but few remedies,
as I had no hope of ever finding a cure, especi-
ally as the few I did try proved ineffectual.
A mail driver told me that he used to suffer
terribly, and a commercial traveller at Bega
told him to use Doan’s Ointment. He did so.
and was cured in a few days, and that man
told me that he would have given £2O to any
doctor who agreed to do for him what Doan s
Ointment did. I obtained a pot of the Oint-
ment, and used it as directed night and morn-
ing. I oidv used half a pot, and was free of
the complaint, and remained so for some
months. I felt a slight return of the irrita-
tion, however, and applied the ointment for a
few days, when I was perfectly cured. I sent
a box to an elderly clergyman, a friend of
mine, who had suffered for thirty years, and
he has since informed me that a few applica-
tions cured him. A natural repugnance to
reveal private matters is overcome by the hope
of doing a good turn to other sufferers. You
can therefore publish this, and those who see
it may rely on it being a truthful statement.
Six years later, Mr. Dunn says: Doan s
Ointment proved a permanent cure for Itching
piles in my case. I have been free of this
torturing ailment for the past six years.
Doan’s Ointment is 2s. 9d. per pot at all chemists and stores, or post free from
FOSTER-McOLELLAN CO., 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
the South Pacific hurled itself on the grey shingle
beach. Above was a wilderness of flowering
white manuka surmounted by silver-leafed ribbon-
woods, and below the raging surf boomed magnifi-
cently in its wild struggle with the rattling
shingle.
It was a State funeral. The press announced
that artillery would be there for the last salute,
and the Rangihape Yeomanry would muster 200
rifles to fire over the grave of the man who had
done their district the honor of being born and
brought up iu it.
“ Where do we come in ? snarled the Statx.
“He belonged to us, next to his family. Aren’t
we to wave a flag over him or give him a
‘ right away ’ for the Better Land ? Blast their
impudence!”
As usual, it was the bounding Jones who
irrupted into the office of Acting-Manager Fluter
with a wild proposal, and Fluter listened to him
with a glittering eye and, rising, went out hur-
riedly and sought the locomotive engineer.
Then the engineer hurried down to the cleaning
sheds and talked to the men as each engine came
in, and there was wild cheering and much enthu-
siasm. The Railway would pay the last honors
to its dead manager —the last and most splendid.
The Briton is at his best at a funeral ; on that
common ground Saxon and Celt meet in harmony.
The city and district of Romahapa poured down
to Rangihape in special trains that gloomy
day, and the long loop was filled with
trains. The time-table was so arranged that
the down express should arrive there for the cere-
mony. The express was drawn by a great
Baldwin Class V engine, whose whistle was a
hoarse roar far below the lowest register known
to orthodox music.
Heavv clouds hung low along the sea-shore,
'fhe ribbon woods upon the ridge top were hidden
ia gloom. The woite flowering manuka hung
still and dripped with moisture, but down below
the ceaseless battle went on between the boom-
ing surf and the rattling shingle. Nearly 10.000
people were crowded around the cemetery, lhe
Freemasons had thrown their green sprigs into
the grave, the truckload of flowers had been piled
around it, the artillery had boomed out the salute,
and the Rangihape Yeomanry had fired their
volley. Then suddenly the murky sky split, a puff
of wind waved the fog aside, and a great shaft of
golden light streamed down on the white flower-
big manuka and the breakers. The people were
all back in their carriages, wondering why the
first train didn’t move off. The Yeomanry had
mounted and drawn up in a hollow square, and
the golden sunlight streamed on their dark
green uniforms and brazen facings. Lhe 20
engines had moved down into the siding oppo-
site the cemetery, with a man on the outside of
everyone. And then far down the line a man
waved a red flag and the high, shrill whistle of
the great Tyneside engine burst into the
Dead March in “Saul.” The engines had
all been arranged in musical order, and the strains
rose and fell with machine-like precision. Wild,
unearthly, terrible m its harshness, the tremendous
ipusic froze the blood, till far down the long line
the deep, deep roar of the Bull Yankee Class V
broke the hearts and crushed the souls of all
who heard. In that sombre music there was
naught of hope—only iron strength that knew its
doom of decay and defied it.
It ceased. When the last echo had died away
among the distant hills, clear as a fountain jet
shared up the strains of the silver cornet, But it
was drowned by the wild roar of the 20 engines
bursting forth again, booming through the last
bars, and then with one great simultaneous blast
in I) Minor they steamed away.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
On Slave Island.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN a white man dies in Ceylon
his soul passes into a .Cingalee boarding-
house. From Slave Island to Rangoon
one meets the low-caste white loafing on the
verandahs of native chettahs where the river piles
the city’s filth under his opium-deadened eyes.
“ Let the dorai guard his neck when he enters
the abode of the river-man,” is an old native pro-
verb. Dorai is Tamil for master ; neck is the
spot where the iron-fisted Malay grips you when
you are drunk and unhappy.
If you ply a coolie with bad wine he will tell you
things that Dante could not have imagined. In
As|a there are whirlpools and cesspits, and if you
divb deep down you will find a lone white man
lying at the bottom.
At Slave Island I encountered Rumpty Gee, a
Cingalee boarding-house keeper. His teak-
swingled chettah ran to the water’s edge, where
the big-beam paddy barges pass with rice and tea
and bales of wild silk.
There were 18 hoarders in the house of Rumpty
—“ bolters ” from the rubber plantations, hiding
from the police ; a crew of Malay shelters, a white
Australian jockey boy and an arrak-sodden
mahout.
The mahout’s name was Muttumurra. He once
belonged to the Bengal Elephant-Catching Ser-
vice, until he ran amok with his full-grown
lcoomeriah and smashed up a Buddhist temple in
Dacca city.
Our chettah was the abode of plantation-thieves
and coolie rickshaw men. It reeked of opium
and the wild-haired Cingalee girls who travel in
troops under the management of German and
Japanese adventurers. Even a koomeriah ele-
phant mistrusts the wandering Jap and his harem
of tawny beauties. The drunken mahout reels
from bis charpov to mock them as they flit like
fire-files across the dark verandah.
I shared a room with a couple of Malays, the
mahout and a half-blind Tamil who owned four
wives and an evil-looking barge. Muttumurra’s
elephant was picketed under the window, and
during the hot night it breathed m at the case-
ment to let its driver know that the temperature
was still at 98.
All night we listened to the drowsy calling of
boatmen as they plied to and from the black-
hulled ships beyond the Battery. At dawn
crowds of overfed crows camped on the. verandah
rail, their sheath-like bills poised over the sleeping
figures of the drunken shellers. Others flew into
the rooms, carrying off scraps of bread and fruit.
At sun-np a big-bodied German thrashed liis
way into the chettah. demanding food and wdne.
His voice was like the north-west monsoon, and
the sudden squeal of a bedroom coolie told me
that the feet of Germany were tramping on his face.
“ Get oop, you plackart! Der vas goin’ to pe a
risin’ in de Punjab. Dese hell-got Britishers
vas goin’, I say. . . . By Gott, dere vill not pe
enough sea-room to drown dent
The Malays blinked and yawned on their mats.
Outside, the elephant breathed softly as the red
sun flamed through the bamboo awning.
“ I tell you dot efery man who can write to der
nadive papers ought to expose dese plackart
English! I say dot” ~
The voice of Germany died away down the
passage, and the peaceful elephant breathed
again. The Malays shook themselves, yawned
and looked meekly in my direction. One of them
drew a long-bladed knife from beneath his mat,
slipped it inside his waist-cloth, and with another
meek glance at me passed out.
“ He is a good boy,” said Rumpty Gee at mv
elbow. “He brings his wages home to me. 1
invest them in rubber stocks. Yes, he is the best
diver on the Bank, sir.” .
“But the knife,” I ventured; “the one he
hides under the charpoy ? ” „
“The smell of the steel makes him sleep, _
laughed the Cingalee. “ One never knows, eh .
He plunged his fat forefinger against his breast-
bone dramatically and winked.
In the back room overlooking a shark-infested
inlet lies the narrow-hipped jockey boy. He
brought horses to Calcutta two years ago, and
raced for the Viceroy’s Cup. Things looked well
with him until a rajah’s stallion kicked Ins chest
out of shape and broke his nerve.
In India the Australian jockey comes to a dis-
mal end. Starting with the physique of a rat lie
acquires malaria and the opium-habit, until his
frightened heart and palsied hands grow slack in
the straight and sick at the jump.
“I thought I d pull round livin’ by the water,
said the little jockey boy to me one morning.
“With opium for breakfast and malaria for
lunch ? Why don’t you go home ? ”
The answer was a stifled whimper as the big
shadow of the Cingalee boss appeared incidentally
in the corridor.
“Don’t go, for Gawd’s sake! Don t leave a
bloke.” The lean white fingers gripped my sleeve
with terrible meaning. “I can’t sleep at night
listenin’to those Malays scrappin an faghtin
round the bungalow. An’ that yellow swines
elephant gives me the horrors bangin’ the rafters
all night until my nerves spring out of me.
“The boy is sick.” The Cingalee boss ap-
peared at my elbow softly. “I he rajah s stallion
kicked him too hard. 'lhese Australian boys have
no flesh on their bones. They ride well; they
make too much money in India, and they bring
their bones here to be buried. Come away. Ihe
Cingalee touched my arm stealthily. “ I will
send him an iced drink. He will soon be better.
In the adjoining room the twelve Cingalee girls
were practising the Bayadere dance. I lie piano
throbbed melodiously as the German’s fingers
flew over the keyboard. Through the smoke of
the darkened room one saw the leaping figures of
the girls pirouetting and bounding before their
masterful instructor.
The music ceased abruptly. The German rose
with a snarl and faced the little herd of dancers
suddenly. Raising his big foot and arms lie
mimicked the movements and gait of a cowering
Rodiya girl. , ,
“ You—you dance like the gibbon monkey,
Atmarie. You bump und hit der floor mit your
blamed hammer-feet. Why de Hell don’t you
float on your toes like de oders, eh? Yah. 1
grow sick of der noise you make.” Humping his
big shoulders he returned to the piano, and the
trembling girl began her dance again.
“ Dot vas better, much better ! ” he .called out
as she whirled through a series of swift-changing
attitudes, beating a cymbal over her head as she
danced. “Goot, goot, Atmarie; you vas as
graceful as an iron bar mit leather feet.”
The girl sank exhausted behind her nimbler
companions, sweat in her eyes, a weak smile on
her bps.
“ Those girls will dance before the Viceroy at
Simla next month,” declared Rumpty Gee.
“ They will earn 1000 rupees for memheer, and he
feeds and beats them like monkeys.”
Scrawled on the wall in front of my bed was a |
notice written by some stranded white man years
before : “ Don’t put your valuables under your
pillow or you may leave your head behind.”
A nice way of saying that the yellow boarding-
house keeper used a machete or a two-handed
sword.
At dusk we watched the troop of Cingalee girls
crowd into a boat, headed by the German, to
catch the pilgrim train bound for Kandy, the
mountain capital of Ceylon. An odor of cinna-
mon followed them, a whirling of long silk scarves
arid naked feet. Atmarie, with the dusky eyes
and the hammer-feet, waved a beribboned tam-
bourine from the vanishing boat.
“The Devil take those Cingalese!” grunted
the mahout as he rolled past me on the verandah.
“My elephant will eat now they are gone.”
Through the long night we heard the loud
snoring of that mahout and the “ clink ! clink !
of the picket-chain under the window. Above
the din of quarrelling barge-coolies came the fret-
ful whimpering of the bov—the one who had been
kicked by the sporting rajah’s stallion.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
The Gods are Dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HARKED one day how a vagrant train
With viol and harp and a roundelay,
Full merrily lifted a glad refrain
Till my heart sang too—for my heart was gay ;
But the Lord of Song (so the sages say)
Is gone with the gold on his shining head—
Is (/otic! —Ye babblers —I tell ye Nay !
They lie who say that the gods are dead !
I walked one day in a viny lane,
The clusters shone in the morning ray ;
The children flashed in the light again
And wreathed themselves in the olden way ;
And I—l laughed at their sweet young play
And pressed the grapes as the moments sped,
Till a Bacchus glanced in the gleaming spray—
They lie—who say that the gods are dead !
The stars are out on the nightly plain.
In pair and pair do the young ones stray ;
They vow their vows in the olden vein.
And wreathe in love by the moon-lit bay ;
Before the glow of their prime is grey
They woo and win ere the bloom be shed.
And the sweet Queen holdeth her ancient
sway—
They lie—who say that the gods are dead !
ENVOI.
For whene’er we laugh with the buds of May,
And whene’er we woo till the Loves are wed,
And whene’er we feast till the dawning day.
We know ’tis false that the gods are dead !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


%
Mr. J. Williams, of Northern Sta-
tion, N. E. Port Augusta, sends his
photo and writes that he has been a
sufferer from impure blood and indi-
gestion, with pimples on his face, and
blackheads. He was always taking
medicines of some kind, with no re-
lief until he began with Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla and Ayer’s Pills. He took
in all three bottles of the Sarsaparilla
■and two bottles of the Pills, with the
result that the pimples and black-
heads disappeared and he was relieved
entirely of his indigestion.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
acts directly upon tlie blood-forming glands of the body, stimulating them to
produce healthy, rich, red blood ; the kind of blood that brings a good whole-
some color to the lips and cheeks, clearing away pimples and blackheads.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure that you get “AYER’S," not some worthless imitation.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
r
A HUGE SUCCESS S
2!^£2
BIRDS
kCUSTARO^Jt
Bird’s
Custard With Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD,'served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
Jieme( V which has outlived the Centuries
UIHET&’S EYE OINTMENT.
.In nae since MO6.
. , „ CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HE ARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
The bulletin post cards-Nsw
Senes. IV Y.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Od. ; iacketof Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Mia'i,
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA,
same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name S®
hfd
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston— “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
DR
The
COLLIS
■
Original anti
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
BROWNE’S
<ly Genuine
Mil CfiXf*
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
bronchitis.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHCtA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
hfd
hfd
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments.
Dance and Picnic Music. The organlike
lone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Beil Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
8 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
i sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/»
Catalogues Sent Free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, post free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
L AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
m.
/Vitchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibadlt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvkrs Powkß.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Pricks Nktt.
>N OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street,
== Britisb’flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters rnay be addressed care of
the British-Austealasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
PUBLIC OPINION
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are, more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters as must be decided by the test o f exp e-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ou * ht to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECH AM’S PILLS as a family medt
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Pupated only by THOMAS BBBCHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
v S d ever y where I* boxes, price ///* (56 pills) «* 2/9 (168 pills).
“Which is Napoleon and
Which is the Alps?”
the small bo.v asked, and the showman did not
enlighten him.
Had the small boy been looking at the
“Steel Wings” Windmill
and compared it with any other make of mill
71 ” c I J ave needed anyone to tell him
wlneh was the latest and best, as he could see
the bearing on each side of the windwheel
whlch "lakes it the easiest-running, strongest
and most powerful mill in the world.
STRONGEST and
MOST POWERD UL, a phrase which is full of
meaning Ponder over it, and if the meaning
0 <“ to"”"*™.
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD..
BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY
hfd
Weadon, Thomas &Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
A S “ is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the oornnulsorv
winding- up of same, and beg to submit the followint
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear •
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns,’ engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified? re-
D ”‘ J
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading ’ Guns,’ steel '
swoiA? ”" 1 stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 <
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Pwf’ co*° C i‘ , bo ,'; e : eXL ‘ellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 li i
3 , olK 'k Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 .vaids, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s
Sale price .. .. _ * ■,* *
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete
Usual price, £5. Sale price . eo .
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price • ..... 13 9
JUchine^and'cWn^- 8 “ W complete ’ with ’Cartridge
a 9 A * i TRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
A lers f ot " uns an< l rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia. * p 60
Send for illustrated Catalogue-— posted free.
THE BALLET GIRL
hfd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and N,
Madame Panza,
G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
R a
ft o
honestly and without charge
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
S.H.HENSHALL,
Regd, Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.


Women’s Tennis Footwear.
These good Boots and Shoas will make a
" deuce ” of a difference to any player’s
*
speed and sureness.
Black Bax Calf Shoaa, with
Jin. heat red rubber sales,
12/S and 14/-
Plaln White Canvas Shoes,
with Jin. best red rubber
soles, 9/S and W/-
Buekakin Sheas, with Jin-
best red rubber soies, 15/6
and 16/6.
White Canvas Boots, with Jin.
beet red rubber soles, tl/6.
Postage will be extra.
Other styles in Sporting Footwear for
men and women are shown in our Spring
Catalogue. Ask for it.
Rerdriau Rubb&r Co. Ltd.,
“The Best House for AU-KuWmt Goods,*
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC HAULAGE
AND OTHBft
Electric
PLANT
tv .■
>
sawMMM
FOR
MINES.
Sole Agent : T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL ANO
GENUINE balata.
TRADiu
hfd
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard apainst i ,
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on ever. -
s t nortßM . James Hardie & co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne-^
The bulletin post
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, (*d ,
Packet of Ten. sd. -
WOLFE
At all times
ask for and obtain only
The beverage
that benefits.
MCINHEB POBBIE INDICATOR.
“McINNES DOBBIE” INDICATORS
FOR STEAM, GAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted by British Admiralty, and used by the
Largest Power Users of the World.
“SENTINEL”
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
AIR COMPRESSORS
STEAM. BELT OR ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
HIGH SPEED ENGINES
Simple, Double or Triple Act-
ing, with Forced Lubrication.
j. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• ■ ' ' ■ :
COMPLETE
MINING
EQUIPMENTS.
DICK KERR 8 CO. LTD..
Head Australian Office : E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
Engineers, Contractors, George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR
INQUIRIES
■SOLICITED*
GENERATORS, MOTORS, ELECTRICAL MACHINERY. ETC.
TEL.
(3236
\5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANK! & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN__LIMIT^Di_GATESEND___ON_ i jrYNE^
162 Glaren
Postal Address:
G.P.O. BOX 1629,
-
SYDNEY.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Officei Mutual Life Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“ MINE SMELTER,”
SYDNEY.
We Manufacture
in Sydney
PERCUSSIVE ROCK DRILLS
AIR hand) HAMMER DRILLS
_ «• • m
Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.
HOISTS.
STEAM, AIR. and
KEROSENE.
All Sizes. Fixed, Fast and Loose, or Double Loose Drums.
Strong, Durable and of Excellent Workmanship.
ALSO
OF ALL
Write for
Bulletins.
A
i*
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George St., Sydney; 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
