

e
is
en
or
as
y
o
R. Q. WATKINS 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
, fok— '• , ‘ . ■ ; ' .■:
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sc
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Mather & Platt’s
2=Cycle Gas Engines
See Wild Cat Column.
Street, Sydney,
m we
' ,
Melbourne.
ECOBAK.T.
’'XlQri —* —
[jadleys Orient jjoiel.
PIONEEO
LEATHER BELTING *V
Gdaraktbrd.
J. C. LudowSci & Son , Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
-as
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON’
fme Apple Brand
fdgdg
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
safes:
Heartburn, Diarrhoea, Biliousness, etc., can b»
speedily cured by the use of
£PS/N
ROUND EACH BOTTLE.
Obtainable from all Sydney and suburban
Chemists, and will be posted free on receipt
of 3s. (stamps taken) tp any part of the Conimos-
wealth or N.Z.
E. QOMMESEN & CO. 9 A«m,
DE MESTRE PLACE, off 310 George Street, SYSNEY.
CiU , l(s u
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
*
4
& z
\
K
&
o
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
df
gd
BECK’S LAGER BEER
SHEARING
16 Young St.,
sfg
df
MACHINES
Sydney
What kind of roof are you putting on
your home ? We would like to point
out the many advantages of a RE-
INFORCED MA.LTHOID FLAT
ftOOF. Just think !
gsfd
You can use it for taking your meals
upon, promenading, lounging, or
sleeping in comfort at night.
Nothing between you and the stars
except fresh air.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L' ?
g
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
economy
df
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mm m Noam
wonderful
in its capacity for
HELIDON
... .
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol.So.— No. 1552.]
[Thursday, November 11, 1909.
Registered at the Genera] Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS OF THE DAY,
Vachells, H. A.: The Paladin, 38 6d, posted 4s.
Bergets : 'Conquest of the Air, 15s, posted 15s 9d.
Brady, E. J.: The Ways of Many Waters, 3s, 6d, p. Ss lOd.
Ball, F. A.: Miniature Mutiny and Other Sea Yarns, Is,
posted Is 3d.
WITH PRICES OF THOSE REVIEWED
ON THIS PAGE.
Hall’s Aunt Jane of Kentucky, 3s 6d, posted 4s
Trautwine’s Oivil Engineer's Pkt. Book, new ed., 25s p.
25s 8d. Amy Mack: A Bush Calendar, 3s6d, p. 3s lOd"
Franklin, Miles: Some Everyday Folk and Dawn, 3s 6d p 4s
Headley, F. W.:Danvinism & Modern Socialism, 6s. p. 6s6d
JJVOUCU J..-! JU.
Days With the Poets':
Illustrated in color.
L °BURNS LOW ’
TENNYSON,
KEATS,
BROWNING,
WORDSWORTH
sfdg
RINEHART, MARY R.: The Man in the Lower Ten, by author of “The Circular Staircase,”'3s 6d, posted 4s
Our dainty list will contain full particulars of books illustrated by Edmund Dulao and Arthur Rackham
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
LYRIC MOODS.
Price 3s. 6d.,
Postage 3d.
By R. CRAWFORD. 144 pp. full cloth, gold blocked.
“ A charming book. The man who could write that (‘Egoism’) has certainly to
be reckoned with.”— The Register.
“Full of fine thought and feeling ... daintiness and finish in the expression
and versification.”—The Argus.
“ The lyrics have a certain literary quality, and all of them are gracefully
written.”—S. M. Herald.
THOMAS C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins Street
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Juiubes”
L& AN IDEAL. REMEDY
kS^
AU6TRIOJAH
MEDICAL DATET7t*SAYS -
f 'SHOULD PROVE Of GREAT
SenviCE'y
c.hudson!
%
tejafsSl
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
For Cooghs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing: No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug:.
Suited for Old and Young:.
The Lancet says: “ Proved to be effective bactericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interefere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
* after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or 1 If*
Post Free on Receipt of I/ O ,n stamps.
COMPANY, LTD., « york street, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
The Conquest of the Air
THE public here has only been able to
follow the results of all the recent
adventures in aeronautics by means of
the cablegrams and occasional magazine
articles. The fascinating details of the ex-
periments, except in the case of Santos
Dumont’s aeroplanes, have not been avail-
able ; nor has there been anything like a
scientific explanation of the principles in-
volved in a style fit for popular consump-
tion. Alphonse Berget’s book on The Con-
quest of the Air (Heinemann) is an introduc-
tion to the study of aeronautics, giving the
history, theory and practice of attempts to
navigate the air, with a large number of
illustrations. Any reasonably intelligent per-
son without much knowledge of mechanics
can follow the author easily, for he has taken
pains to make himself clear.
Berget regards Meusnier, a French mili-
tary officer, as the true inventor of aerial
navigation. He was killed in 1793, and
through not following his methods a century
was lost in futile groping about. Then the
Renard brothers and Krebs struck the right
line in 1884. The Germans followed, and
Zeppelin launched his leviathans, which,
as everybody knows, have made some
remarkable trips. The big dirigibles cost
over £12,000, and as they are liable
to burst or smash up when returning
to earth Australia will not be able to
afford many of them for a while. But the
little dirigible, or “aerial yacht,” runs to
y-bout £1000, and can take one or two pas-
sengers. Very soon this will displace tho
motor-par amongst tho fashionable, and
Berget assures them that when on board one
has a feeling of complete security, and that
sea-sickness and dizziness are unknown.
The disadvantages of the dirigible, which
depends upon a balloon, are many, especially
in the matter of speed. For rapid motion
the future rests with the “heavier than air ”
machine—the aeroplane. Berget gives a full
account of all the types of aeroplanes in-
vented since the time of Sir George Cayley,
the forerunner of aviation. He also ex-
plains the ornithopttres, which have
flapping wings, in imitation of birds, and
heticopUres, apparatus which uses the action of
screws. These have been neglected owing to
the success of the aeroplane, which utilises
the resistance of the air by one (monoplane)
or two (biplane) large oblique surfaces under
a horizontal speed, imparted by a propeller.
Berget believes that these machines’will soon
be able to attain such a speed as will take a
passenger from Europe to America in one
day. He speaks slightingly of the Wright
Brothers’ machine, which demands every-
thing of the aviator. Though they have
been able to accomplish some magnificent
records in height and speed, if they come to
earth en route they cannot rise again.
Whereas Bleriot, who crossed the Channel
in J uly, had previously show'll that he could
descend during the journey and start again
under his own power. He is naturally
enthusiastic about the French aeroplanes,
the Bleriot, Voisin and Antoinette, and
calls them the bicycles of the air, which
everyone will be able to use with ease and
safety. But the Wright apparatus is like a
monocycle, and demands great skill on the
part of the rider in balancing himself while
in flight, and Berget points to the number of
accidents which have happened to Americans
using the Wright Brothers’ model.
Already Australians have been experiment-
ing in flying machines, and, with encourage-
ment from the Government, should be able
to achieve something worth while. To in-
tending inventors this book will prove valu-
able. And to anyone else the story of man’s
ingenuity and perseverance in his attack
upon the air will be found more interest-
ing than any average novel.
From, the Soul of the Ti -tree, by the late
Edwina Geach (T. C. Lothian), a miscellany
of sketches, storiqs and allegories, is in-
teresting, not so much for its accomplish-
ment as for the revelation of the delicate
personality of the authoress.
Australian
. The reflection after reading Miles Frank-
lin’s My Brilliant Career was that its
value was derived from the frank outpour-
ing of pent-up emotions ; its characters were
portrait studies, not creatures of the imagi-
nation ; it was, in fact, to a large extent
autobiographies!. The authoress was a Bush
Marie BashkirtsefF, and the crudities of
her story were forgiven for the sake of its
freshness and its vigor. How would she
develop as an artist, was a question of in-
terest to anyone who eared for Australian
literature. After a long interval comes her
second book —Some Everyday Folk and Davm
(Blackwood) —which proves that she has
developed a good deal in some respects ;
but not sufficiently in any respect
to compensate for the loss of vigor.
A group of characters in the little riverside
town of Noonoon (apparently a disguise for
Penrith) are very well drawn, especially
Grandma Clay, the keeper of an accom-
modation house in which the narrator
resides, a saddened, grey-haired actress. Old
Mrs. Clay had been brought up in the bush,
could harness the horses and drive her
father’s coach when necessary. ‘ ‘ I’ve
always found,” she said, “ that the best and
gamest mothers is the ones that grew out of
the tomboy girls.” She and Jim Clay were
‘ ‘ the happiest pair that ever lived under a
weddin’ ring, an’ it was a love match.” She
reared her family and also her daughter’s
children on sturdy common-sense principles,
and her talk is the best part of the book.
One of her grandchildren is Dawn, who,
according to the title, is emphatically not of
the everyday folk. She is described as
wondrously beautiful, she has all the inde-
pendence and more than the usual amount
of slang allowed Australian girls ; but she
is not vei-y interesting. The everyday folk
are lifelike and natural; but unfortunately
nothing of any importance happens in the
story. If it was intended, as the dedication
suggests, to give the English some idea of
Australian women and their attitude towards
the suffrage, it may serve well enough ; but
Miles Franklin has still much to learn in the
art of story telling.
The sisters Ethel and Lilian Turner have
been publishing books for a good while,
and are as well known in Britain as in Aus-
tralia. The Perry Girls, by Lilian Turner(Mrs.
Lindsay Thompson), is a very pleasant story
for girls; also located for the most part in
an accommodation house n0t far from Sydney.
This place is called “Paradise,” and deserves
the name. Ward, Lock and Co. have
turned out the book in good style, and it
should be popular as a Christmas present.
Louise Mack has made a reputation for
prose and verse ; and now her younger
sister Amy (Mrs. Harrison) enters the list of
authors with a book of nature studies. We
have had a good deal of this kind of thing
from abroad; but our own slice of Nature is
a heap more interesting to our own people
than even Walden pond. Two or three
books have been published recently in Mel-
bourne about Southern birds and Victorian
hills and dales; but, so far, nothing of a
popular kind has been written about the
coast district of N.S. W. Amy Mack’s Bush
Calendar (Angus and Robertson) fills the gap
admirably. It contains a gossipy account of
birds and buds from month to month, illus-
trated by some good photographs and but-
tressed by lists of the scientific and popular
names of all the flora and feathers on view
through the year. The following extract
from the November chronicle will show that
the'Style is simple and picturesque :
Across the clearing, where the grass seems
always green, thousands of dandelions held up
bright discs to the sun; just beyond, the’early
light blazed upon the vivid tips of the saplings,
now no longer red, but turned to gleaming, bur-
nished copper, and between and above and
through all floated hundreds and hundreds of
yellow butterflies. Never have I seen so many ;
the air was filled with their flittering wings ; and
as I walked I had to step carefully for fear of
crushing them. Sometimes one would light upon
a dead branch on the ground and fold its wings.
Instantly the yellow would disappear, and in its
place would be found what looked exactly like a
dead brown leaf. But only a few rested ; the
others floated here, there and everywhere, like
living sunbeams. Even in the early morning
light the picture was one of golden summer, and
after gnxing entranced for a few minutes I hast-
ened instinctively across to the shelter of the trees.
’Neath the Southern Cross— two booklets of
verse by J. B. O’Hara, with colored views of
Australian scenery, would also be suitable for
Christmas, and not disgrace the country.
The printing, by Osbaldistone, of Melbourne,
is very creditable.
Apparently the demand for Australian
verse is very steady. The Man from Snowy
River has passed the 40,000 mark, beating
anything in its line issued anywhere. A
second edition of E. J. Brady's Ways of
Many Waters, with illustrations by Alex.
Sass, has been published by T. C. Lothian ;
and from the same publisher comes anew
edition of B. O’Dowd's Silent Land and
Other Verses (not so good, by the way, as
Dominions of the Boundary). Even so slight
a booklet as I Heard a Child Singing , by
Veronica Mason (Elkin Mathews), has gone
into a second edition. Nearly all the copies
of Hugh McCrae’s privately-printed Satyrs
and Sunlight: Silvarum Lihri have been
subscribed for, and the book is to be issued
in a fortnight. The quality of McCrae’s
verse and of the illustrations by Norman
Lindsay will make this publication an Event.
And we believe a volume of H. M. Green’s
verse is being printed in London.
Brady’s book deserves the new lease of life
which Lothian’s illustrated edition will give
it. A salt wind blows through the rigging
of his nautical ballads, and sends them along
with the speed of one of his favorite clippers.
For knowledge of the old-time sailor and for
vigorous, swinging verse some of these
ballads are unsurpassed. “McFieof Aber-
deen,” “Lost and Given Over,” and “Sailor
Man ” are fine pictures of the seaman and his
ways; while “ Wool, Ho ! ” gives the whole
story of our wool trade in rattling style.
Alex Sass has made some attractive drawings
for the new edition.
A Miniature Mutiny and Other Sea Yarns,
by Frank Ball (G-. Robertson and Co.), a
collection of sketches reprinted from the
Argus, rather tame, though no doubt true.
Some of them might be mixed up with
Frank Bulleu’s, and few could tell the differ-
ence.
Color Prints
A “ constant reader ” in the Never Never
is troubled with a thirsty eye :
You in Sydney haven’t much idea of what’s
missing in bush life. Of course, lam aware of the
advantages, and for nine-tenths of us out here
they tip the balance. But take a city-born man
like me—l can’t afford a trip to Sydney more than
once in- three or four years. It’s not only the
money but the time lost that stops me. ... I take
The Bulletin and a couple of other papers, and
can get most books I want, but what I miss
is—color. This is a damn fine country ; but
for a good part of the-year it is grey and ugly.
Nature is horribly crude. I am* resigned to the
fact that I can’t have the blue Pacific at my front
door, but I’m fed up with raw reds and greens,
stai k black and white. • Miles and miles of ring-
barked country give me more black and white than
I want, and I’d like to have some delicate color in
the house to refresh a weary and thirsty eye, after
a hard day’s toil.
If things pan out all right, I’m going down to
buy some iStreetons and Sid Longs. At present,
I must do with colored reproductions. Some of
the bpst I have had so far are Lone Hand supple-
ments, but I want more pictures and greater
variety.
Color-printing has not yet attained perfec-
tion, by any means, and most artists object
to the reproduction of their pictures in color,
as unfair to the originals. In this respect
the black-and-white artist has an advantage
over his oil or water brother, for adequate
reproductions of line or wash work can be
made and scattered broadcast. Conse-
quently, the widely-known artists of to-day
are the black-and-white men, while artists
like Streeton and Long are only names
to the denizens of the Backblocks. Still some
very decent color-printing is done nowa-
days, though the cost is heavy. The
frontispieces to The Lone Hand represent as
good work as any produced ip. Australia. A
few pictures by Julian Ashton and Lister
Lister have been copied in color, and sold
in booklets ; but we doubt if . they are obtain-
able now. The illustrations to the English
Studio are worth the price, Is. 3d. per num-
ber, and the man Outback might try a few
copies. In the September number is an
appreciation of Streeton’s work which says
that ‘ ‘ for the last ten years . . . there has
been no pause in Mr. Streeton’s progress
towards that position in the front rank of
British artists to which he is entitled by
virtue of his unusual ability. ” (His Australia
Felix has been awarded a gold medal at
the Salon des Artistes Francais.) Jack’s
Masterpieces in Golor are crude, but will
give some idea of the originals. They
are sold at Is. 9d. a volume, about
eight plates in each. The series of
color books printed by A. and C. Black,
descriptive of various countries, will probably
be too expensive—24s. each ; but if funds
can stand it Outback might invest in one
of the Arthur Rackham books (Dymock’a
Book Arcade, 18a.). Rackham has 1
trated Peter Pan , Rip Van WtnJde a •
Midsummer Night’s Dream with drawings o
great charm. The Amiable Grotesque as
never been represented better, and the co or
work, especially in Midsummer -Ntp s
Dream, is delicate and satisfactory. Dulac,
illustrator of The Tempest and The Aralnan
Nights, gives warmer and bolder colors wi
a romantic atmosphere, but the drawing
is not so attractive as Backhands. The price
of the Dulac books, however, is only lls.,
and they are very grateful and comforting
for the money.
“ Wang ” : Re Roderic Quinn’s article on
boys’ reading (Red Page, 30/9/ 09) : J^ u ?"
tralian writers have not done much for their
bookless/ small brothers. Donald Macdonald
and J. F. Edgar gave him rather a tooth-
some morsel when they penned The Warri-
gal’s Well; but at the moment I cannot
call to mind any other book of the same class.
English authors now and again have laid the
scenes of their stories in Australia ; but their
work suffered because their Australia was
principally a creation of their own foreign
imaginations. Ethel Turner has done good
work for the Australian youngsters;
but her books, of course, are more
suitable for girls. A boy’s opinion of ‘ 4 Rob-
bery Under Arms,” “Geoffrey Hamlyn ” or
“His Natural Life” is that they are
“boshter”; but there is always a note of
regret underlying his genuine admiration
because the heroes are not boys. Speaking
from a practical knowledge of him, I can say
that the Australian lad is still as fond Of
Ballantyne, Kingston, Marryat, Cooper and
other standard authors as he was 30 years
ago. He has to be anyway, as there are
practically no Australian books for him.
F.8.N.: I also read Jack Harkaway when
a boy, Ned Nimble, Buffalo Bill and all that
crowd. Then I got hold of Jules V erne and
Talbot Baines Read in the Boys’ Own Paper.
Read’s school stories, I still think, are the
best ever written, and I believe I have read
most of that kind in English, including the
unspeakable Brio and the absurd Stalky and
Co. Amongst a miscellaneous lot, I remem-
ber an imitation of Robinson Crusoe called
The Hermit; or the Sufferings and Adventures
of Philip QuaHl, discovered by Mr. Dorrington
upon a South Sea Island. It is a jolly good
yarn, and when Albert Dorrington’s name
first appeared in The Bulletin I thought he
might be a descendant of my old friend.
The man Friday in this story was a huge
ape. Another ripping story was The Ad-
ventures of Peter Wilkins, a sailor who fell in
with the flying woffien — “glumms” I
think they were called.'' Leigh Hunt has an
essay on it somewhere. But oht of the whole
of my reading as a boy Tom Sawyer and
Huckleberry Finn are the only books I care
to read again. ■ ._
Russell Craufurd, who played with Charles
Arnold and Walter Bentley in Australia,
was a capable actor, but as a writer is not in
the tenth-rate barnstormer class. His
Rumblings of an Old Mummer (Greening)
revives many ancient chestnuts, and may in
terest those who care for any kind of theatri-
cal gossip. The passion for stage realism
has not often gone as far as this:—“ln The
Honor of the Family. .. I enacted Bornsche,
an old French peasant. I rather prided
myself on a subtle effect that I introduced.
I always came on chewing a clove of garlic—
it is not enough in these days of realism
merely to look the character, you must
smell like him. When I played Moses in
The School for Scandal I had the greatest
difficulty in getting the true Jewish aroma.”
Imagine a ghetto drama in which all the
actors followed Craufurd’s example. Phew!
SANCTUARY?
Tour heart is like the sea,
Warm to the world and bright,
Strofoig, spaciously free,
Restless morning and night.
Winds from the lores of old
Blew gentle and blew strong ;
Hungry for alchemist gold
You drank their scent and song.
Oh, skies and seas of waste,
Blue cold to the ocean-dome !
No harrowed hekr't would haste
Here to find home
The cold dawn hazes move
From deep to the heaven’s deep ;
No babe could there have love,
No lover find there sleep.
Your heart is like the sea—
No hunted mJtti could come
Out of the hills of dree
And there have home.
TtCTOBIA.
FURNLEY MADRICE.


it
nee
m
G-ent.’s Fitted Suit Cases, No. 354,
1265., 1475., 1685., 210 s.
This shape is much favored, being easy to pack
and carry, and providing quick access to any
article required. These cases vary in length and
depth, and in the number and method of arranging
the fittings.
The Britannia Case, No. 356, fitted for Ladies,
with Curling Tongs and Spirit Lamp, etc., 40s.
A host of other designs can be had at 155., 215.,
255., 305., 40s. to 105 s.
Roan Writing Case, fitted with gnssetted stationery pockets
and blotter, 31s. A similar line in Morocco, calf lined, 425.
The Clarendon Gentlemen’s Dressing 1 Case, No. 357,
superior fittings and finish, 505., 555.
Numerous other designs, containing all the neeessary toilet
requisites, 225. 6d., 275. 6d., 335., 405., 455., 50s. to 105 s.
Travellers’ Requisites
... AT .. .
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
Ladies’ Dressing Cases, No. 353, 2ls., 25s., 30s.
The illustration shows a Folding Dressing Case. It takes but little
room in a box or bag, and is therefore much used in travelling. We
have a large assortment in this class of Case, the prices varying in
accordance with the size and quality of Case, and the number of
'drivings therein, 10s. 6d., 12s.'6d., 15s., 17s. Gd., 21s. and up to 50s.
The Austral Brush Case,
No. 351, containing two Gen-
tlemen’s Hair Brushes, Comb
and Mirror, made in attrac-
tive Grained Leather, 10s. 6d.,
12s. 6d„ 155., 17s. Gd.
The Grosvenor Brush Case,
No. 351 x, containing one each
Hair, Cloth and Hat Brush,
also Comb and Mirror, in
Leather Cases, 18s. 6d.
The designs in Dressing Cases are not only so numerous,
but are subject to such frequent change in regard to shape
and arrangement of fittings as to render anything like
complete illustration or description impossible. Our customers
may rest assured that their wishes in matters of shape
of case, quantity and quality of contents, shall always
receive our best attention.
The Cambridge Gentlemen’s Dressing Case;.
No. 355 x, only one of many styles, admirably adapted;
for presentation, 335. Similar contents placed in other.-
shaped cases, 215., 255., 305., 375. 6d., 425. to 635.
We are Family Drapers, Complete House Fur-
nishers, Manufacturing Jewellers, and
Universal Providers.
Write for our Departmental Price Lists,
posted free on request.
The Victoria Fitted Bag for Ladies, No. 348.
lia ordering Fitted Bags it is well to leave a little
margin as to shape and price.
,63a., 7.55., 845., 1055., 1155., 120 s.
The Belgravia oase, No. 355, fitted for Ladies.
In assorted,leathers, 18s. 6d., 25s., 30s.
In different designs, 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d., 15s., 22s. fid. to 84s.
“Writing 1 Case, in Pigskin, upright, with large
writing pad and ample stationery pockets, and
double locks, 555.
iSmaller size in Morocco, with one lock, 40s.
Gent.'s Fitted Sag's, :350, 84a., 905., 955., 1055., 120 s.
The 350 design represents a very useful make of bag, con-
taining the necessary toilet requisites for Gentlemen’s use.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape “- BOOKS
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
CONTKNTS —
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Life and Battles of Jack
Johnson, World’s Cham-
pion, illustrated, 10d.
Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
I’acdia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving-s, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, l/.
t3g~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
- c
a 11
l-V
2
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- anti Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complktk
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Triok. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
tiling quite new in
magic. Price Gd. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2,6. ’
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
iJHjtiiii i£
□
o
•fciVA
You can’t tell a
whisky by its looks.
You can by the look
of its label.
When the Label reads
John Walker Sons,
that's “Johnnie Walker,"
the Whisky with the
LITTLE LABEL
and the
BIG REPUTATION.
These Labels are your
protection against im-
mature whisky.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good whisky is sold.
fi
c.
Born 1820.
Still going
strong.
Combination Couch and led.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
SB
'V
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen, press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
7 i PRICES:
4
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. for Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand ggagr- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
TT _ Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Comer of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Directo
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
THE BRAKE ON YOUR BICYCLE
•no less important than the Free Wheel. The perfection of both
Brake and Free Wheel will be obtained if you decide upon having
your bicycle fitted with the latest improved
Eadie Coaster Hub.
The demand for these Hubs is simply enormous and has greatly increased
since they have been made at the famous B.S.A. Works. The Hadie
Coaster Hub is now practically perfect, it can be fitted to any
bicycle by any dealer at short notice, and no bicycle can be considered
tully equipped for the road that is not fitted with this device.
For absolute luxury the cyclist can go one better by having
his bicycle fitted with the
Eadie Two-speed Coaster.
This is the only combination of two speeds, free wheel and brake in *
one hub, that has satisfactorily passed the test of time. Write for a
rs.fii.A. Handbook and read all about these goods and where they
are made. Post free from —
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stuck Exchange Building, Melbourne.
WiA
i
SS;
EETHAfrfS LA IT LAROLA
COOLS ANPREFRESHES THE SKIN
Invaluable
for the SKIN
in HOT
or COLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
Lait
a/ro
Peg
M BEETHAM & SON
CHE L'l ENHAM. ENG LAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
fd
anfjisu
AFTER DEADLY TYPHOID
or Malarial Fever you can regain strength
and vital power rapidly by the use of this
medicine. To give health, no medicine equals
Mr. H. F. WICKHAM.
Clements
Tonic.
READ THIS TESTIMONY.
This letter is worth reading upon a fever case from
the pen of the well-knovvn cosmopolitan journalist,
serial writer and traveller, Mr. 11. F. WICKHAM,
whose records of travel and adventure may
he read in Australian journals. This letter
was written to the Clements Tonic Co. after a
severe attach of malarial fever in •the tropics.
Here is his letter :—
“ 1 have pleasure in testifying,to the benefit received from Clements Tonic.
For Brain-fag and Lassitude,-from which most brain-workers suffer, I have never
found its equal. For the lingering after-effects of malarial fever, contracted in
tropical countries, it is without a rival. One of the features of malarial fever is
that it often permanently affects the liver. After two severe attacks of this
complaint I thought mine was beyond cure until I was induced by a friend to try
Clements Tonic. This I did, and in a surprisingly short time I attained most
beneficial results. At present, whenever I feel the slightest indication of the well-
known symptoms, I resort to this medicine, and in no case has it ever failed to give
me relief. I recommend it to all troubled similarly.—Yours truly, H. F. Wickham.”
No one should be without this Medicine during
the Summer Months. IT HERALDS HEALTH.
Manufactured
by
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., BALMAIN.
Price 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per bottle. All Chemists and Stores.
[3


Poor little fellow! He coughs
so hard he cannot sleep. That
makes him weak and sickly all the
next day. His brother thinks this
coughing is terrible. So do we, for
we know that just a few doses of
filler’s
■Cherrii Sectoral
will stop the cough. For sixty years
it has been the standard remedy
with men, women, and children for
colds, coughs, and all throat and
lung diseases. It contains no nar-
cotic or poison of any kind. Be sure
that you get Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. Accept no cheap and worth-
less substitute.
Prepared hv Dr. J. C. Aver &Co-. Lowell. Mass.. U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
f
We despatch direct from oar Coventry factory
to amone, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Co ven try FJyers
at leas than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
models £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
free to any port In the World.
HOTIUC APCIITO wanted in each dls-
f All I lit flutlt If) trict. Larce ioroflt<
' easily made. Write u once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample machine. >
MEAD CYCLE CO., iw.aso LIVERPOOL,
rriHE LONETIANJ) is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street. Svdnev.
“My daughter Ruby, 7 years,
was completely run clown
through weakness and bron-
chitis, and the doctor advised
me to give her SCOTT’S
DOCTOR
Emulsion,
saying that it
was splendid
for building up the constitu-
tion. She liked SCOTT’S
and in a short time became
quite well and rosy ; appetite
improved and she put on flesh
wonderfully.” (Mrs.) Agnes
Jarrett, il2 Buckingham
ORDERED
Street, Syd-
ney, N.S.W.,
1/9/08. The
doctor ordered SCOTT’S in
preference to any other emul-
sion because doctors know
that SCOTT’S Emulsion
always contains precisely the
same quantities of precisely
the same pure and powerful
SCOTT’S
ingredients,
manufactured
into a deli-
cious cream by the unchal-
lenged SCOTT process.
From this it follows that
diseases and conditions which
SCOTT’S has been proved
to cure (as above) will be
cured just as surely in other
EMULSION
cases, your
own child’s
for instance.
Look for Scott’s
“ fishman ” on
the package. Of
all chemists and
dealers in medi-
cines.
g
df
Good for
The Children
Every ,/ mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for "BON N INGTON’S”
1/6 &. 2/6
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
DEVELOP
YOUR
BUST
£
)
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
SAMPLE OF
TREATMENT.
Every woman may possess a perfectly-
developed and well-rounded bosom.
Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-food adds weight
where weight is needed, and perfects an
imperfect bust development..
Harmless to use, and in tablet form,
this method will gratify every wish of
the poorly-developed or attenuated
woman. Send a 2d. stamp for free
sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO
DEPT. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagii Street,
SYDNEY
©SLICK’S
MALTED MILK
\ For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlick's Malted
\Mllk is an ideal food-
'v beverage, easily digested,
\ nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
ness.
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
Horlick's
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples : 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MALTED MILK Ltd., Slough, Bucks., Eng.
WOODMILHF,
Relieve
Shock
£DSd*s
(lird 1 cjlad grandpa wears Rubber flsels
WOOD-MILNE Rubber Heels have
revolutionised footwear. The old-
fashioned leather heel is rapidly,
becoming obsolete. It is universally
recognised to-day that rubber is the
correct substance for boot-heels,
softens the shock of walking on hard I
streets, and gives ease andvigour to the >
walk. Moreover, Wood-Milne Rubber '
lasts far longer than leather, and so
prevents the boot from losing shape, i
212 7 |
EATON GRANT’S
4 Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Parity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hocfc, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Larg'o Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Amethyst and Pearl Ear-
rings, £2 15i. per pair.
Cable Address : RUSPOLI, LONDON.
Pearl and Amethyst
Brooch, £3 2s.
Ruby 01-
Sapphire &
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
New Pearl
and Peridot
Earrings,
£2 15s.
per pair.
Gold Art Locket, set Amethyst & Pearl or Coral
4 Diamonds, £1 Is. and Pearl Brooch, £1 Is.
Amethyst & Diamond
Pendant, £lO 10s.
Same price with
Opals or Peridots.
xz las.
per pair.
Gold Charm Crystal
Bowl, 12s. 6d.
YOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pav your Duty and purchase Cheaper and I
Belter tlian you ar? now doing. Write tor Catalogue containing 6,000 I
Illustrations, Post Free to any part ol the world. |
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Circe.
Languid, luring, sensuous Circe,
Naked, lithe, devoid of shame,
Sinuous arms that clutch and hold me,
Eyes that shine like liquid flame—
Tempting, mocking, wicked, pleasing,
Shimmering, odorous, red-brown hair.
They worked well, the gods who formed yon,
Hellish, human, passing fair.
Fruits and wines and splendid dishes,
Music, laughter, glare of lights;
Outside, in the gathering blackness,
Grunt the guests of former nights.
So they supped, who came before me,
Tpld their tales and praised your feasts,
Loved, caressed, forgot the morrow,
Woke to find themselves your beasts !
Sickened, sated with your kisses,
Doomed to husks who drank your wine,
Outcast in the outer darkness,
Circe, will their fate be mine ?
“Eat and drink, make love, be merry,
With the dawning cometh death ;
Take the gifts I, Circe, offer ;
Live and love while you have breath.”
Loud and louder grunt her victims—
Guttering candles flicker red,
Music, laughter, feasting ceases.
Fevered, clamant eyes are fed ;
Dying lights are burning lower,
Vicious, deep-set beast eyes peer
Hateful, baleful, reminiscent—
Circe’s pulsing heart is here.
Swift the sombre dawn drew nigher,
Brief hours flew, and she was mine !
I, acceptor of her kisses,
Joined the waiting herd of swine.
MAORI LAND.
THE BEAST.
The Stolen Sweets.
The loveliest flowers that ever grew in Nice
Are of the seeds her wandering sons brought
home
From lands that lie beyond the shores of Greece ;
Further than tracts that knew the sway of
Rome.
The sweetest blooms the Riviera bore
Come from a far, and yet more splendid shore.
For here, where Gaul and old Italia meet,
Mixed of the new hotel and ancient crypt,
In early summer blows the wattle sweet,
And all the year grows green the eucalypt;
Scented and strong, surpassing plane and rose—
The sweetest flowers the Riviera knows.
Here is the odor of Australia’s mouth,
The humid freshness of a wider land ;
Here is the new-born giant of the South,
Lavish of strength, immaculate and grand,
With heads that loose new fragrance to the airs—
The sweetest flowers the Riviera bears !
FKANCE.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Gentlemen of Dickens.
The gentlemen of Dickens
Were mostly very poor,
And innocent of grammar,
And of parentage obscure ;
But rich or poor or thriving,
Of high or lowly birth,
The gentlemen of Dickens
Were the grandest on the earth.
The gentlemen of Dickens,
They wore no fancy names—
Like Reginald or Percy
Fitzgerald orFitz James;
But names for fools to laugh at.
That sound like hob-nailed boots,
Like Newman Noggs and Knubbles,
Toodles and Mr. Toots.
They’d little save their kindness,
Their honesty and truth ;
They mostly came embarrassed,
And stammering and uncouth ;
But the gentlemen of Dickens,
Their women and their girls,
Could speak their minds if needs be
To ladies and to earls.
But one who wore a title
A lesson, too, could teach
Lord Feenix—Cousin Feenix
Of wandering legs and speech.
Oh, he might teach a lesson
A gentleman could give,
Where he stands by his “ lovely
And accomplished relative.”
The gentlemen of Dickens
Were gamblers now and then
(And looked upon the ladies, f' :
No doubt, like other men),
And some of them were drunkards,
It cannot be denied ;
But one .washed all their sins away
When Sidney-Carton died.
The gentlemen of Dickens
Are round us here to-day,
For their self-sacrificing,
Brave spirits live for aye.
They cheer my heart and lift it,
They set my blood aglow.
For I was once a gentleman.
Though it was years ago.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING’S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Supper Parties can be
engaged for four to 30 persons. Banqueting Room for
250. Seating accommodation for 700 guests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 3.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can be purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12,2/6.
A Feature of “THE BURLINGTON” is the
FISH AND OYSTER. CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc,, are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen's Retiring Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE Dr AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
VIL/l
' ■>
JJFI
m
rjp
j4.:W-!!K
pfl'tJ'-'OiSjp
m
Ki
ll
Ml
ffli
liifft'l
till
»
fcfiftEi
Bl
mm
•si®
SS
HOTEL
METROPDLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay ■
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free <3*l. from “
Bulletin ” Office
The
There are only two kinds of
/' GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian. made)
and others.
No. GB9l9—Best Quality Silverplated Flower
Stand. £3.
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd
StßftWcorner, C e ob 7E s? fivnMEV
THE true value at which we buy, the economic conditions under which we work, the
amplitude of our resources, and our determination to give customers the benefit of
every advantage our system places at our command, enables us to guarantee the
quality and value of every article. We do not deal in sham goods, or artificialities of any
description. Even our lowest-priced goods are of sound and genuine quality —just what
they are represented to be in material, make and finish.
We have three Illustrated Catalogues—one dealing solely with Watches, one specially
for all designs of Rings, and the other is our large general 112 page. Either, or all of
them, can be had free on application, or will be sent to any address.
No. HB52 —Best Quality Silverplated Flower
Stand, £2/15/-
No. GBsss—Best Quality Silverplated Chased Cake
Basket, Special Value, £l/10/-
No. G4o67—Best Quality Silverplated
Cake Fork, 2/- each.
No. 358 A—Best Quality
Silverplated, Chased,
Sugar Basket, £l/7/6.
m
No. G 3550 —Best Qualitj r Silverplated Chased Sugar, Cream and Cake
or Fruit Stand, £6/10/-
No. E2234—Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 3/6 ; Silverplated, 1/-
No. G 6714 —Silverplate on Nickel Silver
Vegetable Dish, Two Divisions, £l/17/6.
No. J 292 —Best Quality Silverplate.
Our own special design, at the
Manufacturers’ Price, £2/2/*
No. F 563 —Best Quality Silver-
plated Engraved Su<rar Scuttle
and Scoop, £l/2/6.
No. 388—Silverplated Jam Spoon, 3/-
Butter Knife to match, 3/-
No. 84900 —Best Quality Silverplated Revolvin
Vegetable Dish. Each Dish can be removed
and used separately, £6/6/-
No. Glsol—Pearl Handle Solid Silver
Tea Strainer, 10/6.
No. F6s27—The “Kingf James ” Afternoon Tea
Service, with Tray, Silverplated on
Nickel Silver, £5.
No. F6l4C—Silverplated Butter Knife, 3/-
No. J3l4—Best Quality Silverplated
Hot Water Kettle, with Spirit
Lamp, £2/15/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1552.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1909.
Price 6d.
THE FINISH.


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1909,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 9.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Norman Lindsay and
other leading representative artists, will be the
An'St Black and White work obtainable in Austra-
lia, and will reflect the national humor.
Tbr BuITjKTIN Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by "William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets. Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l A rival we, Only)
E'er Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct, to Tint Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tint Bum.ktin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Cashless Communications
to he addressed to Wit,mam Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent., themselves) by taking some care as to
. methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case Iff addressed to the Editor,
but to the. Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters t.o
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ ropy." -Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not. be there; the otllcial
■always is.
Special Notice.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contenJts of this 'paper are copyright by the pub-
timbers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
■the contents of tips number is hereby expressly reserved by
■the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
•acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian-subjects, and not exceeding
tivc columns in length, or, say, WOO ivoris, are specially
• acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or K ewsva.per Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tint Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But. no
MS. ivill he returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it. ivill be understood, that the. copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot, receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that. it. is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest, and adapted fur direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted fo~ direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion, only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
> Victoria, West Australia, Queensland , Tasmania, and
.New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
•Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at Uffi per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
•after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs, Gordon and
• Gotch, Lvdgate Circus, and at British Australasian
•Office, 115 High Holborn, London, ll'. C.
.South Aerica. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The. Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancou v mi. —Thomson Stationery Co. , I 'ancoavei, B. C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
News Agency, Los Angeles'; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and hews Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Ped.de.r-st., Bong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates.size 6sin. x lUin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TTie'^'alle&Ti.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1909.
THE RAILWAY THAT WILL NOT BE
FINISHED.
The Federal members who recently paid a visit
to Oodnadatta, up towards the centre of Aus-
tralia, came back with a report to the effect that
the country on the proposed Port Darwin to Port
Augusta transcontinental line was a good deal
better than their expectations. They covered the
stretch marked as “desert” on the climatological
maps—every transcontinental line must cross
something called adesert—and they announced that
this particular bit of desert wasn’t nearly so bad as
represented. It was also noted by some of them
that the Port Augusta-Oodnadatta railway—the
one which, under the Dkakin-Price agreement,
is to be acquired by the Commonwealth and
made a section of the transcontinental line
—isn’t the old wreck that the advocates
of the eastern deviation have represented it.
G. H. Wise, M.H.R., of Gippsland, reported
that the train sprang along it at the rate of 40
miles an hour, and that seems an impossible speed
on a line which is a mere neglected ruin. The
report is gall and wormwood to those people who
want to bring the transcontinental line round, at
great needless distance and great needless cost,
and through a vastly worse desert, in order to
make it traverse the Eastern States. The Policy
of Congestion—-of dragging everything to the
places where there is most population already, and
regarding the development of Empty Australia as
a sin—of course demands that the line should be
dragged around, even through the dry regions of
south-western Queensland, where the year’s
rainfall in 1902 and 1905 got down to
about 2Jrin. But, of course, it is hardly pos-
sible to preach the villainous gospel of Congestion
straight out, so the utter hopelessness of the
country up towards Oodnadatta and the utter
decay of the existing railroad have been “dis-
covered,” just as the same party discovered the
alleged barrenness of the Dalgety capital site, and
just as it is always discovering things in the State
Frights interest. The report of the Federal Par-
liamentarians was a severe blow to the Congested
Population movement; but it is already getting
over it and explaining things away. The S. M.
Herald promptly rose to the occasion in a leading
article (3/11/’O9), in which it said that even if the
alleged desert isn’t really a desert after all, yet it
is “a far cry and a weary one” to the north by
the direct route (it is much further by the S. M.
Herald’s own route), and it spoke of the Port
Augusta-Port Darwin line as a huge undertaking
(which it is, but the Herald’s own line is much
more huge), and generally put on an air of bogus
anxiety for the welfare of Australia—that Aus-
tralia which is the one thing that the parochial
press never, by an}" chance, thinks of.
But even if the alleged desert isn’t quite what
it was, regarded as an argument against the direct
line, and the alleged dilapidation of that large
section of the railway which is already built
begins to look something of a failure, there still
remains the tale about the unprofitableness of the
bit of line already built. The northern section
from Port Darwin to Pine Creek, it is pointed
out, doesn’t pay, and the southern section from
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta doesn’t pay either,
though it is much the better of the two, and the
Congested Population people, with a fine air of
anxiety concerning the best interests of Australia,
ask if it is not a mere throwing away of money to
build a line which will join one non-paying line to
another. Thus one deeply anxious daily paper
comments: —
The Northern Territory Bill, which passed its second
reading last Friday, does not stand the ghost of a chance
of being accepted on the lines of the present agreement.
It is considered that passing the Bill as it stands would
involve the Commonwealth in an expenditure of fully
£10,000,000. The peculiarity of the situation is that while
everybody thinks the Territory should belong to the
Commonwealth, very few' members agree to the terms
which the Prime Minister contracted with the Govern-
ment of South Australia. The late Mr. Tom Price made
a good bargain for his State, but it is one-sided. It would
tie up the Commonwealth to conditions which may prove
to be quite disastrous. No one can blink the facts as
they exist. The South Australian Government is losing
£BO,OOO a year on the railways it has made to Oodnadatta
and from Port Darwin to Pine Creek.
The fact that the two unfinished sections of the
straight line, both at present ending nowhere, are
a losing speculation almost drives the deviation
party to tears—all in the best interests of Aus-
tralia. Yet its own project is that the line
should begin by including the utterly profitless
bit of track from Port Darwin to Pine Creek, that
it should then make a wide circuit in order that it
may join on to at least one unpayable Queensland
line; that it should hurry on to join a N.S. VV. State
line which loses money at the rate of £15,000 a
year, while its branches lose about £BOOO more;
that it should proceed further south where there
will be every convenience for attaching it to
N.S.W.’s Riverina lines, which lose money at the
rate of £48,000 a year ; and should finish by con-
necting with a Victorian line which has been a
chronic loser of money all its days. As a matter of
fact, the transcontinental railway, wherever it
goes, must join on to lines which, through lack of
settlement, are hopelessly unfinancial at present.
And it will also be an unfinancial line itself until
settlement is created. All arguments based on
the present poverty of existing lines which end
nowhere are devoid of any real bearing on the
case.
* *- * *
There are many drawbacks about the proposed
long-winded eastern deviation —extra length, '
extra cost, the fact that it will leave most of the'
Northern Territory unopened and undeveloped,
and the fact that it will end at a point far inland,
and depend everywhere on State railways for its
connection with the sea—but there is also a draw-
back that is greater than any of these. It is that
by the eastern route there is never likely to be
any transcontinental railway at all. The line cer-
tainly appears on a map. It is to start from Port
Darwin in the north, run south-easterly across a
corner of the Territory into Queensland, and
connect with the State line to Townsville,
run south-easterly some more and connect
with the State line to Rockhampton, then
run south, and connect with the State line
to Brisbane and the N.S.W. State line via
Bourke to Sydney. After that it is supposed to
go on south till it reaches Broken Hill and thus
gets in touch with Adelaide, and finally proceed
to Mildura and connect with the Victorian State
line to Melbourne. The railway is complete
enough on paper, but anybody who has considered
past events can prophesy with reasonable accuracy
what will happen to it in practice.
* * * *
The line will commence, of course, in the North.
It will be impossible, if only for financial con-
siderations, to start it everywhere at once, and as
the Northern Territory must be developed
quickly in order to make the great Federal
asset a paying concern, work will naturally
begin at that end. Besides, Queensland and
N.S.W. will vote for starting it there,
and as Tasmania and Westralia will have no
special interest one way or the other, their votes
will carry the day. The line will plod by instal-
ments in a south-easterly direction, and the first
break in the Northern Territory’s lamentable
isolation will happen when it reaches the vicinity
of Cloncurry and connects with Townsville. The
second break will occur when the line gets a little ;
further south and connects with the State "line to
Rockhampton. The third will come to pass when
it connects with Brisbane, and the fourth when it
is linked with Bourke and is thus attached to
Sydney. And there, it is fairly safe to wager, the
work will stop, and there will be no connection
with Adelaide and Melbourne, and no real com-
plete transcontinental railway at all. A good
many years will have passed by that time, and
though the breakage of a compact made last month
looks like utter treachery, the breakage of one
made 10 years ago seems like a mere incident.
This is how things will look to the man who
regards them in the year 1920 :
(1) All the trade that can be brought eastward and
southward from the Territory will be already divided
among Townsville, Rockhampton, Brisbane and Sydney.
It will look like sheer folly to carry the railway further
and share that trade with Adelaide and Melbourne.
(2) To complete the line as proposed by carrying it
from the Queensland border to Broken Hill and on to the
Murray at Mildura will cost a lot of money, and N.S.W.
will have to pay about two-fifths of that money, and it
would be absurd for N.S. W. to pay good money for a line
which must simply divert its western trade to the nearer
ports of Adelaide and Melbourne. It is again stall N.S. W.
traditions to send trade anywhere save to Sydney.
(3) Money will be short by that time, for the part of the
railway already built will have cost more than was ex-
pected. That sort of thing always happens.
(4) However reasonable the agreement that the railway
should be carried via Broken Hill to Adelaide and Mel-
bourne might have looked in 1909, it will be too absurd
for further consideration in 1920, for the- Broken Hill
mines will be nearly on their last legs by that time.
(5) And in any case the weight of voting power will be
with Queensland and N.S.W. Victoria has already lost
one member through its insane policy' of prohibiting
settlement in the interests of the great land monopolists,
and by that time it will probably' have lost another—or
two more. The building of the transcontinental railway
line, paid for with the money of all Australia, will have
attracted population into Queensland and
that will also have brought these States increased Federal
representation. When it comes to a vote on the question
of an amendment of the Transcontinental Railway'
Act, providing that the line shall riot for the
present go beyond Bourke, Queensland and N.S.W.
will completely outvote S. A. and Victoria. The
other States will probably regard the stoppage simply
as a saving of money' to themselves, and be either favor-
able to the suspension or else neutral. Or the thing may
be done by simply failing to vote the money for the
further extension of the railway.
(6) And, in any case, it will be pointed out that the two
southern capitals are connected with the Territory along
the old line via Bourke, Sydney, Albury, Melbourne,
Ballarat and Servicetown, and that they have really
nothing to complain of.
* * * *
That is how there will be, almost to a certainty,
no complete transcontinental railway after all if
the eastern deviation is adopted. No doubt such
an ending would imply a breach of faith, but
breaches of faith are common enough. It would
be no worse than the shameful political lie and
swindle whereby the N.S.W. State Parliament
repudiated its agreement with the other States
over the first Federal Constitution, and demanded
the possession of the capital as a bribe before it
would resume business.- N.S.W. didn’t disavow
that deed and declare the person mainly respon-
sible for the disgrace perpetually disqualified to
sit in the Legislature; rather it elected him to the
Senate, where he is available for similar work in
the future, and by that act it made repudiation
honorable and breach of faitli profitable. In the
case of the transcontinental line, too, the tempta-
tion to do that kind of work will be so enormous
that it is much better not to take the risk. The
eastern deviation is set down on the map as a line
connecting a Territory and four States. The first
State (Queensland) will lose all interest in the ex-
tension of the work as soon as its connection is
made, for everything after that will be a carrying
of trade past its doors to ports further south. Still
Queensland, with the votes of N.S.W., S.A. and
Victoria against it, won’t be able to prevent the
railroad going further than the point at which it
connects with Brisbane. (There is, of course, the
possibility that Victoria and S.A. might by then
have become so convinced that their end of the
line would never be built that they might join
with Queensland in voting for a stoppage at Bris-
bane, but that complication is too elaborate to be
probable.) Then N.S.W. will lose interest in the
undertaking when the connection with Sydney is
accomplished. Anything beyond that will be a
mere scattering of Cornstalk money in order to
carry northern trade past Sydney and to carry the
trade of western N.S.W. and ultimately, it may
be, of Riverina to Melbourne or Adelaide. And
among the four States which really care the
two northern ones will outweigh the two southern
ones. The transcontinental line—which will
begin to be called a “desert railway” as soon as
the connection with Sydney is made—will stop
for exactly the same reason which makes one
N.S.W. line stop at J3ay and another at Finley,
and another at Murwillumbah—because the par-
amount trade interests of Sydney must be con-
sidered. And Australia will be left with an
unfinished railway through the operation of the
same influences which have supplied it with a
Federal capital territory in two widely separated
fragments, and a Federal port which doesn’t
extend to the water. The straight short line from
Port Darwin to Port Augusta has many advant-
ages, and not the least of them is the fact that it
will be a complete railway. It can’t be anything
else. There is no halfway port at which it is
liable to be seized with the arrested development
disease.
THE ABOLISHED CANTEEN, THE
DRINKING HABITS OF THE “LOWER
CLASSES,” AND SUNDRIES.
“ Henry Horsecollar ” speaks a few words
So certain Federal snufflebusters have closed the mili-
tary canteens in the name of God and Cold Tea. The
Australian soldier used to yet good liquor at the canteen
and pay a moderate price for it. The liqiior was supplied
hy, a man who made no profit out of the business, and
who was liable to punishment if he allowed his customers
to get drunk. So he tools care that they didn’t
get. drunk. The profits went to buy books, magazines
and papers for the reading-room, and in studying these
the men often forgot to drink. Now it is enacted in the
name of God and Cold Tea—(l) That the men are to go
outside the barracks and pay a higher price for worse
liquor; (2) they are to get it from a man whose
interest it is to make them drunk instead of
from a man whose interest it is to keep them ; (3)
they are to get their liquor in places far removed from
their officers’ supervision ; and (4) the profits are* to go to
the drink-seller instead of being spent on literature for
the soldiers. And these great reforms are done in the
name of God and Cold Tea. It is a mad world with bees
in its hat.
+ * * *
And, of course, there are bursts of congratulations in
the press—congratulations from Cold Tea-ites of the most
lamentable and bee-hatted character. I have cut out
about a dozen of them. Here is a characteristic specimen
selected at random (it comes from a whirling circum-
stance at the quiet N.S.VV. town of St. Mary’s).:—
“Many a young man has learnt the drinking habit in
camp and barracks, and has cursed the day he became a ;
volunteer.
“In view of the report of the Royal Commission on
the Physical Deterioration of the British man, the most
damning document the drink trade has ever had flung at
it, no one can doubt the wisdom of the House’s decision.
Remembering that of 11,000 applicants for enlistment
IN ONE DISTRICT, ONLY 1200 WERE PHYSICALLY FIT TO SERVE
THEIR COUNTRY, MAINLY THROUGH ALCOHOLISM, Surely it is
time to protect our young men from the ravages of this
evil. The Boer bullets and disease combined accounted
for 22,000 deaths during the 3J years of the war. In the
same time, the liquor fiend accounted for at least 220,000
deaths in Great Britain. The Boer leaders, Oron.te in
particular, attributed more than one victory to the Boers’
sobriety, as against British indulgence in alcoholic *' ( l ’
and the Japanese generals account for the crushing a
of the Russian Bear because of his drunkenness.
Duke of Albany declared that drink is the only en y
that England has to fear. .
“Scientific experiments in the Swedish army conclusive-
ly prove that alcohol drinking is detrimental to the tin -
man, and the abstainer does much better work. Jj
Kitchener and Lord Roberts both declare that tneir
men can do harder marching and fighting on water.
Frederick Treves said that it was the drinker every time
who fell out on the march to Ladysmith. General Hoa!
last words to one of our contingents were —‘ Keep away
from the can een.’ In view of these authoritative opinions
of so many of our great leaders, who can doubt that it is
a wise thing to keep the canteen away from the soldier .
* » * *
Now, personally, I never came across the alleged words
of Oronje, or tiie Duke of Albany (which Duke of
Albany ?), or Roberts, or Kitchener, or Frederick
Treves or the great Hoad ; and, considering the amazing
habit that pious people have of manufacturing their evi-
dence as they go along (witness that old, old gag about
the inquiring nigger to whom Victoria gave a Bible, say-
ing, "This is the secret of Btiglaud’s greatness ),
I have great doubts as to whether any one °i
them made the remarks ascribed to him. In fact, i
have a suspicion that they are all lies. Isor ami i
over-much impressed with the yarn aboutdrink being tne
great danger of the British army, for I notice that the
drinking nations (France, Germany and Britain being in
front of the bar with the firmest grip on the beer-pot) are
also the ones whose armies are fairly formidable fighting
machines, while the nations which hardly drink at all
(such as Turkey and Persia) are not doing too well. The
Jap generals may, as alleged, have ascribed the “ crush-
ing’ defeat ” of the Russians to their drunkenness and to
the Jap person’s sobriety—or again they may not. That
may also be a lie. If they did do the alleged ascribement
there are some discrepancies in the story, for the Russian
armies did not sustain any “crushing defeat”; the Jap
victories, in fact, were only won by the skin of the Monkey s
teeth. And the Russian, despite ail theories to the contrary,
is a fairly sober person, and consumes less alcohol per head
than the Briton, Frenchman, German, Austrian, Italian,
Spaniard, Portuguese, Scandinavian, Dutchman, Belgian,
Swiss or Yankee. Whether the Jap is sober or not I don’t
know, but his tax on alcohol is his second biggest source
of revenue, so he must drink some. The Russian was a
chronic drunkard, say, 200 years ago, and the Jap was
once noted for his abstemiousness, but then times change.
Unfortunately, teetotalers don’t change—-they only
maunder.
9 * * *
As regards the story about 9800 out of 11,000 applicants
for enlistment in the British army being rejected mainly
because of alcoholism, I reply briefly : “ Mice ! ” It isn’t
alcoholism that is the matter with the sediment of the
British people—the class from which the soldiery is
derived —for the sediment hasn’t the money wherewith
to buy a decent allowance of alcohol. The sedimentary 7
people may be suffering from the effects of tw’openn’orth
of drink acting on bodies that are weakened by 7 hereditary
poverty 7 —the poverty that comes partly of Freetrade,
partly of the burden of landlordism, partly of the job of
holding up an awful Established Church with a Primate
at £15,000 a year, and partly through other things—but
they are not suffering after any wholesale fashion from
alcoholism in the ordinary sense of the term. Britain’s
drink bill is spacious enough, but when you divide it
between the person who consumes wine worth several
pounds a dozen at his club and the one who has about
fourpenn’orth of beer at a roadside inn called “The
Weary Traveller,” there isn’t so very much left for the
humbler class of toiler. The officer class — i.e., the
Roberts and Kitchener class —may drink like the devil,
but the Tommy Atkins class can’t, unless it is a very cheap
devil it drinks like.
Hr * * *
I used to know the humble British toiler well. My
early life was spent in a small manufacturing town
(population about 20,009) with agricultural outskirts. It
was located in the Midland counties of England. The
people were poor and respectable. They had mostly been
born there, all except George Smith—aged 60 and earning
a steady 12s. a week—who was looked upon as a rather
roving, piratical character, because in his early 7 life he
had come from a smaller town a dozen miles away.
Sixteen shillings a week was a good wage in that
town. The people didn’t live on that amount because
food was cheap under the blessed influences of Free-
trade, for it wasn’t cheap, barring a very 7 few articles.
Beef was never less than 10d. a pound, and often more.
The best tea was 4s. a pound. Coffee was hardly heard of.
Pickles and sauces were as unknown as Buddhism, and
nobody had a cruet-stand. The masses simply didn’t eat
beef, unless an occasional bacon-rind could answer to the
name. And their tea was a marvellously diluted thing that
looked like pale brown water. I never heard of any house
having a bath in it, but then I didn’t know the locai aristo-
cracy ; still there were public baths with accommodation
for two people to wash at once. The local working classes
were a quiet, pious, mostly law-abiding folk, who rose
early, worked hard and went to bed early. Hardly any 7
of them read a newspaper—in fact, the town had no
newspaper, nor had any of the adjacent towns. To them
politics, British and foreign, were almost a blank ; history
vyas nil; geogiaphy was limited to a knowledge that there
was somewhere a place called “ furrin parts.” They
mostly voted the Tory ticket for reasons unknown. There
was hardly a book in any workman’s house barring a Bible
and some hynin books; the wild, whirling exception was
Herbert Bare, who had purchased a cheap Cassells’
History of England. An amazing proportion couldn’t
read, and those who could bought the Christian World
or some such pious publication, for they were surprisingly
religious—it was the only break in the utter dulness of
their lives. I -have known six of them to meet in a
friend’s house on Christmas Day (that and Good Friday
were their only holidays), and sit silently, neither drink-
ing nor smoking, for a full hour, and then one of them
would say, suddenly : “ Well, Mr. Smith, what d’ye think
of the Holy Ghost?” And this vague question would
break up the fountains of the great deep and they 7
would babble generally 7. They were mainly Dissenters,
and at the Baptist conventicle to which I was hauled
at least twice every Sunday I acquired a sort of acquaint-
ance with 200 or 300 of them. These people took their
religion seriously. They had revolted against and
“starved out” three successive pastors, and some of the
wilder spirits'had tried to throw the last of the three —
the Rev. Evan Jones, a mild-mannered man, with £45
a year—into the river on a point of doctrine. Doctrine
was their chief amusement. But the parson of my time
—the Rev. Thomas Fisk—ruled with an iron hand, and
collected his stipend of £96 a y 7 ear like a pirate.
There were no teetotalers among these people. They
scorned Rechabitisni. When a teetotal lecturer came to
the town he was howled dowm. Yet they didn’t drink —
for lack of the means. Tu openn’orth of beer was a fairly
regular thing; fourpenn’orth was dissipation ; six-
penn’orth would probably have produced those
alcoholic symptoms which disqualify 7 a man for
active military service, so utterly unused were they
to wild excess. Apart from the hotel to w'hich bagmen
and other travellers resorted—a place that the working-
man would no more have thought of visiting’ than he
would have thought of tramping into the mansion of one
of the adjacent squires or peers—there were only a few
beer-shops. But though these people didn’t drink in
any 7 sense that could be called drinking, the proportion
of them that any 7 military doctor would have rejected at
sight was something incredible. Looking round the
Baptist conventicle any Sunday they seemed to be largely 7
dw 7 arfs, diseased persons, cripples, degenerates and freaks
—the natural result of generations of poverty, ignorance,
bad feeding, bad sanitation, and subservience. Possi-
bly those who stayed away from service were a
better class —it was only 7 at the Sunday service
or the prayer meeting that I saw them gathered
together in all their miscellaneousness. George Smith
(with 12s. a week) had a streak of pious imbecility, and
tried at times to rise up and argue with the preacher.
His daughters, Mary and Sarah, were both consump-
tives. Mrs. Gillard was blind and her sister had a
withered leg. Jane Billingsley took fits ; so did her two
sisters, but they didn’t take so many fils as Jane Bil-
lingsley. The girl who was known only as Harriet was
a hunchbacked dwarf. Silvester, the bootmaker, was
also a dwarf, and his lower lip turned outwards and
hung over his chin. Mrs. Fish was amonstrous sample of
dropsy. So was old Nixon. Samuel Brooks was a dwarf,
with dropsy as a side-line. His brother Hezekiaii had
face convuisions of a surprising kind. Abel Pony had a
curiously 7 twisted neck, so that he couldn’t look at you
straight unless he turned sideways. William Barber
was bow-legged and notoriously deficient in the
intellect. He always nodded at you sideways,
with an unwise smile. Isaiah Morgan broke
in on a week evening service once to report that,
having come down early to clean the chapel (a
work which he performed from sheer devotion and with-
out any semblance of pay) he had seen the Devil in the
school-room, and the Rev. Thomas Fisk, whose holy office


sat lightly upon him, asked if the Devil had a tail, and
called his humble follower to order. Hknry Smith always
snuffled and had a drop of moisture hanging at the end of
his nose. All the girls of the Rawlins family had skin
diseases which, their mother said, arose from lack of
nourishment. There were about 12 miscellaneous
cripples and paupers who dwelt in the workhouse ;
also there were the mysterious, knock-kneed man, one
beggar, a person who hawked bootlaces and some sun-
dries. Also there was Orump, the man with the crump
feet—l mean the plug feet, that is to say, the club feet;
and old Collins whose feet were alleged to be in process
of being eaten away bodily by some darkly-m.vsterious
complaint. No recruiting officer could have gazed
on a much sadder lot, yet one Australian shearer
of the old days who really meant to have a
good time would have got through in a week all the
alcohol that small-beer congregation consumed in a
' ear. Probably two generations of good wages, good
food, good education, healthy living and complete sever-
ance from the squire and the old servile habits would have
made their grandchildren something like the sea-kings
from whom they were descended. But mere Rechabitism
wouldn’t have done it.
* ■* -* *
Later on I became acquainted with the British masses
in another aspect. It was in the second largest city of
the British Isles—a place with a much bigger population
1 lllln Sydney, yet occupying only about one-fourth of the
area. It achieved this marvel of compression by means
of the tenement house. The tenement house as I knew
it was four storeys high. There was a common stair, and
about five separate domiciles opening off each landing'.
That meant at least 20 families in one building. The
houses were of either one or two apartments. The
number of inhabitants in each house—even the house
of one apartment—was indefinite. Sometimes it was
astonishing. Ac the back there was another similar
tenement approachable only through the front one.
Tne yard between was the playground of an indefi-
nite number of children. There were no baths and
practically- no sanitary conveniences in the entire
resi lential wilderness, and what people did in the absence
of these things can be left to the imagination. These
homes were occupied by honest married artisans earning
an average giddy remuneration of perhaps 225. (id. or 255.
per week. This was a few years later than my experiences
in the little half-manufacturing, half-agricultural town
ln English Midlands, and, in the interval, beefsteak
had gone up to Is. 4d. per lb., so the tenement house
crowd also was not much of a meat-eating community,
aet it had probably heard of bacon and eggs. The men
were a stunted lot whom no recruiting officer would have
yearned after, but not so ignorant as the folk pre-
viously described, and they hadn’t so many amazing
deformities. They had no signs of religion about them,
and for the lack of any common church or chapel
meeting-place I never became really acquainted with
them. The name of the street was Cobden-street,
and thereby I began for the-first time to have doubts about
] beautiful Freetrade doctrine. On Saturday nigh ts the
inhabitants were supposed to get drunk and beat their
wives, yet on the whole they weren’t so bad as they seemed.
Any inhabitant could hear any serious row which took
place (1) in his own tenement, (2) in the back tenement,
(3) in the tenement on the right, (4) in the one on the
left, (5) in the one opposite, (6 and 7) in the one to the
tight of that, and also the one to the left. And moreover
the lady whose husband came home intoxicated and
abusive sometimes went out into the street and harangued
an large about her wrongs for an hour, or else addressed
the universe from her window. So in the way of clamor,
a little intoxication, a little wife-heating and a trifle of
domestic disturbance were sufficient to keep the whole
street awake till well into Sunday morning. In reality,
these artisans didn’t drink much, for they hadn’t the
money. But on their ill-fed, ill-ventilated constitutions
two or three whiskies, consumed once a week, produced
an amazing effect, and four were calculated to lead to
chaos.
* * • *
Britain, as I said, has a fairly large drink bill, but if
you knock out the expensive liquors consumed by the
upper classes ”it isn’t so much of a bill after all.' The
poor man is fairly crowded in the Cold Country ; there
are places in London where there are 100,000 of him on
one square mile of land. And he is crowded almost as
badly on one square pint of beer. The theory that the
agricultural laborer earning 12s. a week or less, and the
artisan earning 225. 6d. a week or thereabouts, would be
rich and happy if they didn’t buy a case of whisky every
week (total value of case about £2 Ss.), is very comforting
and eloquent, but it is also very foolish. ‘ In fact the
yarn seems to be invented to draw the attention of the
poor off the fact that they are ruined by Freetrade and
land monopoly. When the eloquent, hired snufflebuster
goes forth to preach the doctrine that the millennium will
come as soon as all the pubs are closed, he reckons
that it will take 100 years to close all the pubs, and to
prove that he isaliar; and meanwhile the landlord is
having a rest. The whole proposition is a spirituous and
malt herring drawn across the trail. At the same time I
wouldn’t dream of disguising the fact that the British
workman drinks—mostly on pay-day. But in a district
where there are 100,000 people to a square mile things
are so much condensed that, if only one ill-fed man in a
hundred takes a pint or two o.n Saturday, it is possible to
meet 200 men showing signs of drink within a few
minutes’ walk. That looks like a terrible circumstance ;
but it isn’t nearly so much an evidence of the drink evil
as the congested population evil. However, this yarn has
got so far away from its starting point, which was the
foolish abolition of the canteen, that it is never like!v to
get back, so 1 had better close.
THE DRY FEDERAL SEAPORT.
Amid all the debates of last week on the subject
of the Australian capital and its port, no light has
been thrown on the reason why there is to be no
water at that port. The little bit of Federal terri-
tory at Jervis Bay is to end at high-tide mark.
Except for about 15 minutes twice a day, when the
“port” will get the hem of its garment wet, there
wi 11 be a stretch of d ry land belonging to the N. S. W.
State Government between it and the water. The
water itself and the sea-bottom—the places where
you put wharves and docks and shipbuilding
yards and commerce generally—will all belong to
the State Government. The Commonwealth
harbor is to be just as much of a harbor as Cobar
or Broken Hill in N.S. W., or Kyneton in Vic-
toria, or Alice Springs in the Territory, or Kal-
goorlie in Westralia. Gregory Wade. State
Premier of N.S.W., has ordered that it shall be
so, and a Federal Government which seems hardly
human in its subservience to Wade has apparently
touched its hat and said “ Yessir.”
* * * *
To say that the situation is amazing hardly
even begins to express it. The Commonwealth
will have no legal right to put up at its alleged
sea-outlet .even a jetty that is big enough to
accommodate a Balmain ferry-boat. If it erects
anything of the sort it will do so on sufferance,
and the Wade of the moment who hangs out at
Sydney can order it to remove the goods at any
time. On the other hand, the State Government
won’t be able to make any use of the waterfront-
age which it reserves to itself. It will own the
deep water. It will own the shore and
the reclamation rights. But as the land
behind will be held by the Commonwealth,
the State, though it can make a port, can’t make a
town just there except on sufferance, and can’t get
goods to and from its bit of seashore except by
permission. When things are so fixed that the
Commonwealth can’t make a port for want of
water, and the State can’t make one for want of
land, the natural inference is that there is no
intention of having any port at Jervis Bay. In
other words, the inference is that the whole trans-
action is a confidence trick of the Worst kind. It
must be remembered just here that it is contrary
to all N.S.W. State policy to have a harbor for
oversea shipping anywhere except at Sydney. It
is for that reason that Twofold Bay, Jervis Bay
Port Stephens and other places have always been
kept shut up, or have been carefully discouraged
by the refusal of railway communication. Even
if the bringing of things to Sydney involves
300 miles of needless and ruinously expensive rail-
way carriage, everything must come to Sydney.
And if the business can’t stand the extra cost it is
considered better that the business should perish.
Seeing that this is the settled policy of N.S.W.,
the reasonable assumption is that the N.S.W.
Government intends .Jervis Bay to be neither a
State port nor a Federal port, nor, in fact, any
port at all.
Senator Mirren, who represents in the Senate
the Fused Government which has sold its soul
and its manhood to Wade, asked indignantly,
when this question came up. whether anybody
seriously imagined that the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment would use its ownership of the water
and the strip of land in front of the
Federal pert to obstruct commerce or anything
of that sort. It was a sublimely impudent ques-
tion. The only possible reply which an intelligent
person could make is that he suspects Gregory
Wade of the worst possible intentions, and
regards Senator Mirren as a party to them, and
consequently as a political traitor, and a very dis-
reputable one at that, in the Federal camp. If
a man pays another a large sum of money and the
receiver says : “ You can’t possibly want a receipt
for this ; you can trust to my honor,” the man who
has paid the money generally says that the cir-
cumstances are suspicious, and he insists on a
receipt. If a householder finds a strange man on
his premises at dead of night, and the strange man,
with a crowbar sticking out of his pocket, says
proudly, “ Dare you suspect my honesty?” the
householder usually replies that hedoes—very much.
Neither Mirren nor Wade, nor the Fused Federal
Ministry which grovels so wretchedly to Wade,
can offer one coherent reason why the Wade
Government should want to retain possession of
the water and a strip of land in front of the
Federal port unless it has the worst intentions.
If there is any honest, decent, upstanding purpose
for which it could desire this opportunity to be
small and nasty and mean and dirty and can-
tankerous to the Commonwealth, it is a pity that
it doesn t explain and clear itself from suspicion.
A Federal railway is to be built at the cost of all
Australia from the Yassberra capital—if there ever
is a Yassberra capital—to the alleged port which
has no water. In the matter of this railway there
will doubtless be great debate as to whether the
humble Commonwealth is to have space for one
set of rails or for two. The Federal line is to be
connected with the State system, but nothing is
said as to when the State is to connect. The
work may be done in one year or in 20 years
or even 50. The number of trains which
run to the Federal territory will apparently
depend on Johnson or some other State rail-
way manager, for the only land connection of the
proposed Federal capital will be through N.S.W.
By an amazing series of manoeuvres on the part of
Wade, the Federal capital has been shoved into
a corner where neither the regular trains from
Albury nor Oooma, nor any other regular trains,
will serve it—where, in fact, it will be on a branch
line that will lead to nowhere except the Federal
capital, so that the N.S.W. Government can give
it the worst possible service and the oldest pos-
sible rolling stock without doing damage to any-
body outside the Federal territory. This is the
result of Wade’s action in shifting the Federal
territory from its old position on the Goulburn-
Coorna line—where it would be impossible to re-
fuse it railway facilities without at the same time
cutting off the railway facilities of all south-eastern
N.S.W. —to a place right off all existing tracks,
where it will be a mere cul-de-sac. And the Federal
port has been manoeuvred into a spot where it
won t have a pint of drinkingwaterfrom the lulls be-
hind it save by the permission of Wade, and where
it won’t have enough water in front to float a canoe
except by the condescension of Wade. If the
land commerce of the Federal city is hampered
because the N.S.W. Railway Department will
only allow it one mixed train per day, there will
be no remedy save to appeal to Wade. If the sea
commerce of the Federal “port” is destroyed by
the action of the N.S.W. Government, which
insists on owning the seashore and the water,
there will be no remedy save to apply to Wade—
until the petty, childish persecutions of people
like Wade move the Commonwealth to assert
itself and take everything it wants with a strong
hand.
* * * *
Meanwhile, as already mentioned, many good
Australians would like Wade’s agents in the
Federal Parliament to explain what possible pur-
pose save a bad purpose the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment could have in view when it insisted on
retaining power to cut off all sea commerce from
the alleged Federal port. The Wade Govern-
ment can’t gain a copper bv the proceeding. It
can t gain anything save the chance to be mean
and arrogant and interfering and unpleasant, and
if it doesn’t intend to be these things, what
is its purpose? It is no use for Mirren or
anybody else to put on an air of superior
blastedness and say that Brutes is an honorable
man and above suspicion. When Brutus is found
in another man’s house at night with housebreak-
ing tools in his possession it is up to him to
explain, just like anybody else.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Labor Party’s Troubles.
The decision of the N.S.W. State Labor party to>
cast in its lot with the Tory State Premier Wade
and against the Federal Labor members, over the
proposed division of the Customs and Excise
revenue, points to a definite split between State
Labor and Federal Labor. It is a
affair, for the two parties are Supposed to repre-
sent the same cause and the same people.
Apparently the State Labor party in the Legis-
lature is going to make the support of the Tory
Wade a chronic habit, and if it does that its-
career as a Labor organisation must be nearly
ended. The financial question between the Com-
monwealth and the States is a complicated affair,
but these are its main features :—-
(1) The Bradpox clause, which provides that three-
fourths of the tariff revenue is to go to the States, expires-
at the end of 1910. After thfit date all the tariff revenue
belongs to the Commonwealth.
(2) Unfortunately the Commonwealth’s liabilities are-
increasing in a hurry. Old-age defence expendi-
ture, transcontinental railways, the taking over of the
Northern. Territory, the Federal capital, postal and tele-
graph extension, etc., are considerable liabilities. The
Fused Government found that it would have a
deficit before the Braddon clause expired. And as it
absolutely declined, being a Tory Fused Government, to-
levy a Federal progressive land-tax or income-tax to’till
the gap, it approached the State Premiers and asked for
assistance.
They offered to agree to the abolition of the Braddon-
clause now instead of 18 months hence, and to grant the
Fused Government a little tnonev to go on with pro-
vided it undertook to pav the States 255. per inhabitant-
per annum for ever, and to get this new proviso inserted
in the Constitution.
And it is there that the Federal and the N.S.W.
State Labor parties split so badly that it looks as;
if the breach was almost irreparable. The Federal
party points out that the payment to the States of
255. per head per annum for ever is out of the
question. It is easy enough now , while enormous
borrowing keeps trade in an inflated condition ;
but the experience of rich, high-tariff countries
like Germany and the United States shows that
when things settle down to a normal state even
an affluent country with a heavy tariff can only
raise about 20s. or 265. per head altogether from
Customs and Excise, and to pay 255. our of that is
obviously a thing that can’t be done. Yet the
State Labor party wants the agreement confirmed
whether the thing can be done or not. The
Federal party points out that, the Australian
Government will be hampered to an almost im-
possible extent if it signs a promise to pay a sum
which, in course of years, must be quite be-
yond its means. The N.S. W. State Labor party
apparently regards Australia as a foreign country
and an enemy, and rather prefers that it should
be hampered. The Federal Labor party would
prefer to fill the immediate gap in the Federal
finances by means of a progressive land-tax which
would break up big estates and promote settle-
ment all over Australia. The N.S. W. State Labor
party would apparently rather have no progres-
sive land-tax than a Federal one. The Bill pro-
viding for the new arrangement has to be passed
by the Australian Parliament and by all the State
Le gislatures. In the Australian Parliament the
Labor party is fighting its hardest against the
Tory Government and the impossible agreement.
In the N.S. VV. State Legislature the Labor party
has decided by a considerable majority to join the
Tory Government and fight/or the insane agree-
ment. The N.S. W. Labor party has joined the
Tory Government altogether too frequently
of late. It seems to be its ill-luck that
when it has to choose between its democratic
principles on one side and its parochialism and its
hatred of the all-Australian idea on the other, its
democratic principles are the weaker sentiment of
the two. Fisher and Pearce and Batchei,or
may be good Labor men, but they are Federal
Labor men. Gregory Wade may be a bitter
Tory and reactionary, but he is at least a local
Tory and a parochial reactionary. And when
it comes to a choice, the malign influence of
McGowen, Hoi.man and Neilsen seems to lead
the N.S. W. Labor party to prefer the worst Tory
from its own State to the best Labor man from
another State, or even the best Labor man from
its own State if he happens to be in Federal
polities.
♦
W. M. Hughes as the Landlord s Friend.
W. M. Hughes, M.H.R., is a staunch democrat
who apparently believes that the people have a
right to rule provided they rule as he wants.
Otherwise he seems to have as ferocious a con-
tempt for the people as any Tory or nigger-driver
going. The people have had no chance to express
an opinion on Hughes’ favorite Canberra capital;
it was sprung on them after last election, and
Hughes strongly urged that it should be fixed be-
fore next election, because if it wasn’t the indignant
people might i p et the whole swindle on polling
day. .Tabez Coun’s proposal that there should be a
referendum on the matter moved Hughes to
wrath ; why the people should have a chance to
upset his favorite desert capital he couldn’t see.
lie declared as plainly as possible (Federal Han-
sard, page 5210) that the people were quite unfit
to judge on the Dalgety-Yassberra question, and
that they weren’t to be trusted with such a
matter. Apparently the intelligence of the com-
mon herd didn’t soar so high—and even Bruce
Smith couldn’t be much more lofty than that.
Then a fresh idea seemed to strike Mr. Hughes,
and he proposed that there should first be
an amendment of the Constitution so as to
allow of Sydney or any other place in N.S.W.
(but no place out of N.S.W.) being chosen as the
capital, and that there should then be a referen-
dum to decide whereabouts in N.S.W. the capital
should be. Hughes’ own electorate is in Sydney,
so his attitude seems to be this :
(1) At present the capital is as close to Hughes’ elec-
torate as it can well get under the existing Constitution,
so the common herd shouldn’t have an v say in the matter
lest they should move it further from Hughes’ electorate.
(2) If the Constitution is altered so that the common
herd may be able to move the capital right up to Hughes’
electorate, then they suddenly become qualified to judge
of large public matters, and they should be entrusted
with the settlement of the business.
Of course, the fixing of the Federal capital in any
big, State-owned city would lead to further con-
gestion of population ; it would end all chance of
making a big experiment in the Labor policy of
public ownership of land ; it would make a
free gift to the rich private landlords of the city
of all the unearned increment created by the ex-
penditure of Federal money—That unearned in-
crement which, if the capital were placed
in a favorable situation, ought to pay for
its construction . over and over again. In
fact, Hughes’ policy of bringing the Federal politi-
cal centre to a big State capital is the policy of Fat
and Private Enterprise and Private Landlordism
and Toryism, but apparently Hughes would
rather turn Tory than cease to be parochial and
anti-Australian. No wonder Henry Holland
■spoke of him the other day as a representative of
'Capital.
“ Petifi ” : Some evidence given to N.S.W. Pub-
lic Works Committee, the other day, was enough
To make Premier Wade and Works Minister Lee
and the rest of the Congested Sydney crowd rise up
and say things. It is suggested that Goff’s Harbor
should be connected by railway with the main
northern, line at Guyra. The new line would not
•only carry the Dorrigo produce, but would tap
the trade of the whole north-west plateau. Then
if Coff’s Harbor could be fixed up asa deep-sea port,
some hundreds of miles of unnecessary haulage to
Sydney would be saved. Captain Colvin, a
mariner who has been trading to Coff s Harbor
for 16 years or so, told the Committee what he
thought of the place as a port :
There is enough water in Coff’s Harbor to accommo-
date the largest over-sea ships. If only half the money
was spent on it that has been spent on the Clarence it
■could be made the best harbor north of Port Stephens.
It is the natural outlet for all the trade of the Dorrigo,
and the further West. If only improvements to provide
shelter were carried out vessels could lie there, and trade
•direct from there to over-sea ports. It would take
£1,000,000 to make Byron Bay a suitable harbor for deep-
sea trade, but Coff’s Harbor can be made a suitable port
h.y the expenditure of £250.000. It is practically the
only place of shelter for a distance of 90 miles from the
Macleay River to the Clarence.
What with the people of the middle North-West
clamoring to be allowed to ship their produce at
the real harbor of Port Stephens, instead of
having to send it to Sydney, past the alleged,:
harbor of Newcastle, which isn’t big nor
■deep enough to fill the bi)l ; and the
people of Southern Monaro demanding an outlet
for their produce at Twofold Bay ; and the people
of Western Riverina shouting for a railway from
Finley to connect with the Victorian line at
Tocumwaal, and put them in touch with their
natural port at Melbourne, the Congested Popu-
lation crowd has had a moving time of late. If
the Congested Sydney crowd did these things it
would make Sydney l@ss congested, and set up
trade rivals to Sydney ; and the problem of how
to avoid doing these things, in face of all the
uproar in favor of their being done, has been
keeping the Congesters on the jump. This latest
far-northern yell about Coif’s Harbor is calcu-
lated to make the Unnatural Accumulation push
fly to drink.
One day last week Sydney Daily Telegraph
looked at both of its political josses—the Federal
and the State—and decided that neither of them
was much chop. It considered the chief alleged
virtue of its Federal joss—the thing the joss says
it will stand or fall by—and the paper concluded
that the alleged virtue wasn’t a virtue at all:
We are not enamored with the [financial] arrangement
proposed. In time, it might become difficult to fulfil, and
it certainly despoils N. S. Wales exceptionally. The
present arrangement provides that the States shall be
paid as much in bad times as in good ones, and the Com-
monwealth will, at adverse times, be powerless to prevent
an increase in its heaviest item of expenditure.
After this comprehensive curse of the Deacook’s
financial scheme, the Telegraph took a spell for
a few columns, and then considered its other joss.
The Defamation Bill was the text, and the way
the State Assembly handled it, on Wade’s invita-
tion. proved to the paper that Wade in par-
ticular, and the State’s Parliament in general,
are years behind the other States. A Labor man
asked the House to do something, and when it
wouldn’t do it the Telegraph says :
Its refusal indicates how unprogressive the N.S.W
Parliament is by comparison with those of other Aus-
tralian States and with England.
And having thus hammered both josses, it hung
things up for 24 hours, and then, instead of get-
ting new josses, proceeded to flop to the old ones
as before.
-V
The N.S.W. railway truck trouble took on a new
and unexpected phase at the end of October. For
weeks the air and the papers had been full of
lamentations at the fact that there weren’t any
trucks to be had. Most particularly did the meat
people howl. Fat stock was sitting up all night
waiting to come to Sydney to be killed. Wild
horses couldn’t drag trucks from Johnson, and
pastoralists, agents and the meat trade generally
were in despair. But during the last week of
October the Railway Department woke up. It
suddenly jumped the number of available trucks
from 450 to 1100. All day long rams, lambs,
wethers, hoggets, poddies, springers, steers and
all sorts of jumbuck and all kinds of cow poured
into Sydney. The sellers and buyers were
frantic. The Homebush yards were crammed
and still the messages came: “200 trucked
from Boggabri; 300 coming from Booligal,” until
the city itself seemed doomed to be swamped
with fat stock. All facilities collapsed. The
stock sold could not get away because of the flocks;
and herds that were waiting outside. Homebush
slaughter-yards failed because skilled labor could
not be had, and the capacity of the killing yards
was over-taxed. Consequently prices fell, and
irate stockowners, added to the confusion by
demanding “ Whaffor ? ” This is only a sample
of what will happen when the railway lines are
duplicated and the. rolling-stock trebled as the
Department proposes. If all the available wool
and wheat is suddenly dumped into Sydney, that
city will break in half. Its bottle neck will burst
and the place die of apoplexy.
The Maoriland Government struggles in about 27
different ways to dam back the flood set going by
its own borrow-and-boom policy. Among other
things, it is trying to make the landlord reduce
his outrageous rents a trifle. Naturally when
Cohen is pouring coin into the country, and there.-
is easily-got money to burn, the landlord reaches-,
out for his little bit, and workmen’s dwellings,
that would be dear at 10s. a week are shut up
until the hungry house-hunters are squeezed into
paying a pound or more. When the Government
saw that these things were happening it struck two
ideas: first, it offered to lend people money to
build their own homes, and under thatscheme about
£700,000 has already been called for ; and then it
decided that it would put up a few hundred cot-
tages itself, and let them out at 5 per cent, on
their total cost, plus enough to pay for insurance
and rates. It was all right to try to clip the
claws of the greedy landlord ; but, seeing that it
borrowed to build the new premises, the Govern-
ment simply sustained the disease which it was
trying to cure. If it knocked off borrowing, and
allowed things to get down to their natural con-
dition, rents would most likely have dropped
of their own accord; and if they didn’t, a
few pence extra in the shape of land-tax
would have brought in enough to build all
the cottages necessary to reduce Fat to hisu
senses. But the Government has kept the disease
going, and presently, when it will have to stop,
borrowing, it will find itself landed with a crop,
of cottages that are not earning interest on the-
loan money that built them. Even now it is only
getting 5 per cent, on the cost; and the 1 per
cent, between what it pays for interest and what
it receives for rent isn’t more than enough to
cover repairs and expenses in good times and
while the premises are new. Nineteen-twentieths
of the 150 or so cottages already built are of
timber; and when they get a few years older
1 per cent, won’t even keep them in repair, and
the shabbier and more rickety they get the
oftener they will be empty and earning nothing
at all. There are plenty good reasons why the
State or the municipality should own and let
workmen’s model cottages; but the business
should be run on business lines, and this isn’t.
And, anyway, the foundation of the whole thing
is rotten. Maoriland is sick through over-
borrowing ; but instead of knocking the borrow-
ing off, it not only goes on borrowing as before,
but borrows a trifle extra to pay for medicine.
♦
Advt. from the West Australian
rjl H E LATE dan shea.
Mr. TIM SHEA was surprised at not seeing a
few more of the publicans of Perth at his late
brother Dan’s Funeral, as he was well known
amongst them. Only one put in an appearance,
namely, Mr. WALSH, of Leederviile, and not one.-
of the Members of Parliament put in an appearance.
And the chances are that, when the next election-;
comes round, Biggs, the old member, will ask
Tim for his vote, as usual ; whereupon Tim will
wither Biggs by scornfully reminding him that he-
“didn’t go to me brother Dan’s funeral.” Then
Sniggs, who'will have the above advt. carefully
pasted in his pocket-book, will sympathise with
Tim, and tell him that Biggs hasn’t the ordinary
feelings of a man ; and Tim will decide to give
Sniggs a chance. Also a few more people who-
have much the same idea as; Tim Shea has about
members of Parliament will give the same sort of
vote ; so Sniggs will be elected. After which, at-
about 11 o’clock the same night, the Liberal and
Deform Union will meet in a city eat-and-drinkery
and will (between gulps) thank Heaven that the
glorious con’stooshun has been preserved, and that
the country is once more safe from the vandals-
who wanted to carry a Bill for the abolition of the-
Upper House ; and next morning the West Aus-
tralian will have a triumphant leader in which:
Hackett, M.L.C., will also mention that Provi-


The Electrolytic Refining; and
Smelting; Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney :
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
FOR HIRERS and BUYERS..
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue. ....
HARRINGTONS LTD
■ > near G.P.0., Sydney!';:
and at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide: ■
Adams’ Tattersall's Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
&
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
dknce and the West Australian are to be
thanked for having guided the people to give a
clear and unmistakable answer to the question
that had been put before them. All of which
shows the beauties of party government without
the referendum.
• ♦
The Coal Strike.
At the beginning of this week the coal-miners of
Newcastle (N.S.W.) dropped their tools in a quiet
sort of way and left off work. Very few people
knew that anything of the kind was going to
happen. There is no one big outstanding griev-
ance between them and the employers, but there
are multitudes of small grievances of the obscure,
pin-prick variety. In the first place, the coal-
miner is an irritable person. Anybody who puts
in all his working hours in the dense gloom and
thick atmosphere underground must be irritable.
Ihe life is one that would probably make Bruce
Smith a raving maniac and turn Iceberg Irvine
into a fiend or a Salvation Army drummer of the
mu St re l ent l ess an< 3 persecuting description.
1 here are above-ground and open-air Judges who
have done their best to consider the miner’s
case, but no Judge, unless he has put in a
month in the bowels of the globe with
a pick and a dim lantern, is capable of
knowing what the case really amounts to. And
while the coal-miner is an irritable person, the
coal-boss has of late been a rather supercilious
individual. The abolition of the old N.S.W.
Arbitration Act, and its replacement by the
ineffectual Industrial Disputes Act, has ex-
plained to him fully that the Government is on
his side whatever.happens. He knows that there
exists in N.S.W. the most absolutely and com-
pletely lory Ministry vyhich has held office for
very many years; and eVen the State Labor party
h is been moved by its anti-Federal sentiments to
attach itself to this Tory Government, so that it no
longer seems a thing to be feared. It has such a
yearning to get the Federal capital planted where
the profits will go to the rich landlords of the
htate capital that, even if it were to fight
Gregory Wade, it would fight with one hand
tied. There is consequently a feeling among the
colliery-owners that they are more completely
masters of the situation than they have been any
time in thd last 18 years, and they are quite willing
to demonstrate the fact. The miners are aggra-
vated by a process of small tyrannies, and
the owners, apparently, are quite willing that
they should be aggravated. The miners regard it
as a point in their favor that the coal supplies in
consumers’ hands are low. The owners apparently
don t care how low they are; they reckon that
when the supplies run out the people will get
angry and that the N.S.W. Wade Government
and the Federal Fused Government will make use
of the public anger to coerce the men. There is
large talk of the coal-owners turning importers
and bringing in supplies of Japanese and Chinese
coal, and probably a Federal Government which
is largely Cook and Fuller and Millen is ex-
pected to lend its aid and countenance to this
idea. The coal-owners also reckon that the unions
have been drained of money in support of the
Broken Hill miners during their recent trouble,
and that they can’t hold out long ; the unions, on
the other hand, have been made angry by that
struggle and by the fashion in which the Wade
Government threw its influence on the side of the
proprietors. And they have another vague but
very real grievance, which the Australian Star
(8/11/’O9) explained in these words
Conversing with the workers, one finds that there is
pretty well as much feeling against the Government of
the State to-day as there is against the mineowners.
Newcastle is not jealous of Sydney, but she sees with a
feeling of growing disquietude the pursuance of the policy
of centralisation that is making for her undoing. She is
in the declining stage now. She accepts with strong
hope the possibilities of advantage offered by an industrial
upheaval.
A time is close at hand, if it hasn’t already
arrived, when the fixed resolve to drag all busi-
ness and commerce to Sydney must cause a great
part of the country to regard Sydney as its natural
enemy. And out of that must arise a certain hos-
tility to the Government at Sydney and the
Parliament at Sydney and the laws made at
Sydney and the law courts at Sydney. It is pro-
bably a hazy sort'of feeling as yet, but it may
make an immense amount of trouble as time
goes on.
Maoriland papers congratulate themselves much,
these days, on “the Passing of the Depression:’’’
The slump came suddenly, but it was not so very
severe after all, and already the clouds are rolling
by. That is the tone of the Dominion’s papers
and politicians, and it sounds reassuring; but there
is a hollow note in it all. The stupendously
inflated city land values are still about where they
were; they tottered for a while, but the Govern-
ment shored them up valiantly with more loans.
There has been no general cleaning up ’or attempt
to face the situation-only a heroic shoving of
loans under the foundations of the staggery
edifice. Australia has gone through the same sort
of .experience. In the late’Bo sof last century it
was felt in Queensland that the structure was
showing signs of decay, and even the Queens-
land National Bank, which in those days
was almost as much Queensland as the
B.N.Z. was Maoriland, fell under suspicion. But
Treasurer Mcllwraith leaped into the breach
just like Joseph Ward, and manfully borrowed
£2,500,000 at an awful figure (about £B9 for every
£lOO, on a 3A per cent, loan), and put most of it
on deposit in the big bank, and the Q.N. was able
to face its troubles and lend out more money for
the encouragement of industry, and thanks to
that and more loans the gloom passed. The
average Queenslander shook hands with himself
over the restoration of sound prosperity, and
then, before he had time to let go his
own hand, the financial tower of Siloam
fell on him, and it was years before he was
dug out of the ruins. The vast borrowings of
McMillan in N.S.W. and Gillies in Victoria
also restored prosperity about the same time, and
just as the patient was completely cured he died.
The last great Maoriland slump also made a
false start; things looked bad, but Stout and
Vogel and others rushed in and put the lOU
under the swaying tower of Babel, and it stood
awhile. It may be the same way this time,
though again it may not, for history doesn’t al-
ways repeat itself. Unfortunately, though, it
generally does when the circumstances are much
■the same.
» ——
The German professor who has been looking into
Australian economic conditions has had some-
thing to say about Australian education :
He considered that the education system of Australia
was bad. The fault was it had been based on the English
regime, and there were no two countries in the world so
different, so far as the work of the educationalist was
concerned, as England and Australia. He wondered that
Australia should adhere to the English system, which
was too far behind the times to prove effective.
The English system is “bused largely on com-
mercial principles”— i.e. , payment by results,
making the teacher’s salary depend on attendance
and the results of inspectors’examinations. The
original idea .was to get the children as fast as
possible through the school and into the factory ;
and the trail of the commercial serpent is still
over it all. All children must learn to read,
write and do a few sums, but everything beyond
that is a matter for the British divinity, Private
Enterprise. The knowledge that the British
workman has for years had the bread taken out
of his mouth by Germans trained in some one or
other of a hundred rate-supported, Government-
subsidised technical schools, has not killed its
worship. But the trained, skilled, many-tongued
German clerk may do it in the end. The British
clerk, who is being pushed into the gutter, is no
match for him, having no special talents except a
fair handwriting and the ability to do simple
sums. He can rarely speak or write any language
but his own, and has probably learned at school
more cricket and football than anything else—
with, perhaps, a little Latin. After he gets
a job as junior in some office, he quietly works
his way up till he wants a higher screw to
marry on, whereupon he' is told he isn’t
worth it. or words to that effect, and his
place is taken by Karl. Karl has been to a
regular commercial school, where he has learned
to be neither a cricket nor a football barracker,
but has been made to personally practise gymnas-
tics, and has been taught to read and write Eng-
lish and French very thoroughly. Then he has
served a regular apprenticeship as a clerk, and
become a member of the local substitute for a
Chamber of Commerce, which, in Germany,
admits not only the employer, but his clerks,
warehousemen and apprentices. In the evenings
he has attended lectures and classes on such
subjects as commercial law, history, geo-
rapliy, exchange, and has had access to a
library. If Karl, when out of his time,
wants some British experience, he generally
has little difficulty in getting a billet.
The British employer, accustomed to pay extra
for foreign languages, jumps at Karl, whose
languages are thrown in. There is the whole
secret of the failure of both the British clerk and
the British artisan to hold their own in competi-
tion. Australia is trying to find models to
imitate, first in Britain, and later in the United
States. Why, as this German professor hints, it
should not make a model of its own and let the
rest of the world go its own way, is not at all
clear. No country in the world is at all like Aus-
tralia in its economic or social conditions, and if
Australia is wise it will leave off copying other
people and contrive institutions to suit itself.
♦
Most of Victoria’s ingenuous shire councils
mildly approve of Murray’s moderate land-tax,
perceiving that it may be better to be hit by half
an axe than the whole sharp instrument; but
occasionally their discussions discover a stodgy
Tory left over from the days of Noah and other
pioneers. One such is Councillor McGeoch, of
Leneva, which is in the deep bush at the back of
Wodonga. McGeoch was asked his opinion
lately, and settled the argument promptly.
“ What was wanted,” he declared, “was a tax on
labor—let the produce of the land be taxed.” A
tax on labor, on the products of the land ! So
that the small farmer who works every acre of his
holding and enriches himself and the country by
energetic and scientifically directed toil shall be
discouraged as much as possible, while the useless
land-monopolist who spreads a few sheep over 100
square miles of country shall be encouraged to go
one better by keeping the land idle altogether.
McGosh !
In the last four years the imports to Australia
from Canada, the country of high Protection,
have gone up from £379,i25 to £532,752, while
the imports of Canada from Australia have moved
along in the same time only from £40,292 to,
£75,913. And while Canada has sent Australia
machines, bicycles, leather goods, printing paper,
furniture and boots and shoes, Australia’s exports
have consisted almost wholly of greasy wool, un-
dressed timber and frozen meat. Australia,
which has been cursed with G. Reid and Joe Cook
and the whole breed of Stinking Fish Foreign-
traders, has got into the habit of producing
and exporting the things that call for least
labor—it hasn’t even had the job of washing the .
dirt out of the wool or putting the tree it chops
down through a sawmill. So its exports have, to
a great extent, merely robbed the country and
made it poorer, while the exports from Canada, a
land where high Protection is the settled policy,
have added wealth to that country, because the
greater part of the value of its exports has been
labor-value. Canada hasn’t merely chopped down
a tree and shipped it as undressed timber ; when it,
hasn’t put the stuff into furniture, it has put up
another sort of factory and made it into paper.
From “D.K.”:—
So the C.S.R. is going to import molasses in large quan-
tities from Fiji. H’m. The Customs will, no doubt, test
that molasses right to the bottom of the tank. It may
have a little sugar in it. “First” molasses is what they
get “seconds” sugar from. It is boiled and allowed to
stand for a month at least, and then the “ seconds ” sugar
forms. Molasses is duty-free; sugar costs 6s. per cxvt.
The C.S.R. is an honorable co., of course ; but if the
C.S.R. scents sugar in its molasses, it isn’t going to give
the stuff to the pigs, I guess.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Silver King.”
Her Majesty’s “A Country Girl.”
Criterion “Othello.”
Palace “ The Scarlet Troubadours."
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Theatre... “Zaza.”
Her Majesty's “ The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “The Girl Behind the Counter.”
King’s “ One of the Best.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Buildixg West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
Wirth’s Olympia King’s Pictures.
Wirth’s Park Wirth Bros.’Circus.
“The Country Girl ” romped back to Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) last Saturday, and proved to
he almost as entertaining a female as aforetime.
These musical-comedy revivals are necessarily
patchy things. The music has almost the same
sparkie, and bubbles as gaily from the orchestra
as it did of old, but the dialogue and the jests are
generally threadbare ; consequently it takes a lot
of hard mumming to keep the talking part of the
show within gunshot of the light-footed musical
portion. “The Country Girl” stands a revival
better than most of its kind, for its dialogue is
seldom obtrusively dull, and it never goes more
than a few minutes without breaking into a song
or dance, or both. And as the songs and dances
are all good, the audience never sinks into that
dangerously sluggish state where the loud yawn
reveals the exhausted head. The present version
of “The Girl” is sung and danced mostly
by new principals, and in that respect it is well
flavored with the valuable sauce of novelty. The
parts of Geoffrey Challoner, the Rajah of Bhong,
Barry, Sophie, the Princess and Marjorie Joy are
all held up by new people ; and although the com-
parison is not wholly favorable to the newcomers,
it lends interest to the production. Victor Prince
isn’t quite the Rajah that Bantock was, and Olive
Godwin, as the Princess, follows some distance
behind Margaret Thomas and Celia Ghiloni, the
two preceding princesses of the line; also, Dorothy
Court isn’t the equal of Florence Young, who used
to revel in the music of Marjorie Joy. The new
Marjorie, though delightfully dainty, has to step
carefully amongst the top notes that Florence was
wont to just nod to. Percy and Lottie Sargent fit
the rdles of Barry and Sophie about as well as Lauri
and Rose Musgrove ; and Herbert Clayton as G.
Challoner can stand without embarrassment by the
memories of Haigh Jackson and Harold Thorley.
Last of all, Ivy Scott, as Nan the village romp,
compares very favorably with herself of three
years ago. Miss Scott holds the title-deeds of
this cheerful part; she is quite at home in it, and
Sydney playgoers would regard a new Nan as a
she-pirate. As there are only a pair of acts, and
very few lengthy patches of dialogue, the show
goes from eight to 11 in two gay melodious
rushes, and there is always a fresh, outdoor ripple
on the surface of the music which makes it an
exhilarating drink for the thirsty ear. Compared
with most of the “Widow” music, the “Girl’s”
twinkling tunes are the essence of gaiety. They
probabty won’t be heard in 1934 ; but then the
people of 1934 will have their own composers,
and by that time the “Widow’s” pictures on the
green-room wall will be the only thing left to>
answer the charge of indolence brought against
her by irreverent Posterity. The Bulletin has
a confirmed habit—of which it refuses to
rid itself—of grieving for the golden operatic age
of Gilbert and Sullivan. The revival of this—one
of the most lasting and successful musical plays of
recent years—moves it to once more lift up its
voice in a loud lament; for though the “ Girl” is
a bright, breezy and healthful frolic, it jingles on
one side of a chasm while the works of G. and S.
abide in peace on the other. The party strife
now raging over the British navy might incubate
a new partnership of giants who will produce a
modern “Pinafore”; but this paper regards the
chance with a pessimistic eye. Meanwhile the-
musical frolic of the “Country Girl” order is-
good enough to go on with, so long as it isn’t too-
far between tunes. When the music leaves off
and the talk begins, the bright Girls and Widows
turn out to be not nearly as clever as they seemed
at first. “The Country Girl” will romp along
until someone tells her to quit singing and
dancing and attend to the cows.
** * *
Although, at time of writing, that theatri-
cal Johnny-all-sorts, “The Cheat,” holds the
boards at Sydney Royal, there is balm of Gilead in
the reflection that its sawdust is running out fast.
On Saturday night it will give place to “The
Silver King,” with the great Titheradge in the
part of Wilfred Denver. “The King” is melo-
drama, but at least it is high up in its class—in
fact, it may be the greatest of all melodramas. It
is, at any rate, spotted over with real human
passion; which “ The Cheat ” isn’t. In that
calamity the one bright streak is the comic
relief, which, apparently by some mistake, is really
humorous. In the part that is supposed to be seri-
ous the one glimmer of reality occurs when the hero
describes to his weeping lady-love the process of
gradual decay that overtakes a gentleman of Eng-
land when he has been kicked out of his set and
deprived of all hope of inheriting his father’s
money. According to the gospel of “The Cheat,”
the Best People of England are incapable of mak-
ing a living for themselves ; take away their right
to rents and they perish miserably. Also, the
army man is represented as an ass, a dolt and a
weird object who passes judgment on a fellow
officer without making any inquiries. They are
Blanchard’s cards, they are marked, and Blan-
chard has been winning. What more proof can a
demnition fellow want ? So out goes Blanchard.
And, happily, out goes “The Cheat,” too, on
Friday night.
** * *
The Scarlet Troubadours are back at the
Palace, and, as Shakspeare said of them or some-
fine else, “age hath not withered nor custom
Staled their infinite variety.” They ring the
changes on the emotions in their own inimitable
way, gliding easily from stirring hunting song to-
weeping chorus, and thence to the coon outburst,
that is rendered with a delicate touch of tempered
“OTHELLO” (SYDNEY CRITERION).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Scene One : A council chamber ; in the chair
The Duke of Venice in red vestments clad ;
Around grave senators, with long, prey hair,
Who look extremely old and slow and sad.
Enter in haste young Desdemona’s pa—
A frenzied ancient—and the scornful Coon
Who stands erect and mutters “ Pooh ! ” and “ Bah ! ”
While Desdemona’s daddy swears the moon
Has been employed his daughter to bewitch
By black Othello, who has often served
The proud, white State of Venice in the ditch
And other places with his sword-blade curved.
In polished, rounded periods he tells
The aped senators the pair are wed ;
Then down he sinks, and in dark fancy dwells
Upon the wrong with shaking hands and head.
Meanwhile the Coon makes all the hay he can
By looking proud and dwelling on his feats ;
The senators are with him to a man,
And listen humbly in their shadowed seats.
Then does white Desdemona to the black
Confide her future, while her outraged dad
Gives her, in language plain, the utter sack,
And flies to drink where’er it’s to be had.
Act Two is laid in Cyprus, where the Coon
Is It. To Cyprus has lago brought
White Desdemona —crazy as a loon
About the Black—who reigns within the fort.
Then, while the tide of Joy is at the full,
Jealous lago starts the hanky plot,
And not one puppet can resist his pull
Amongst the noble but fat-headed lot.
He fills up Cassio with wine, and sets
Pool Roderigo on his tangled track
To give him impudence, till he forgets
Himself and chases Roddy madly back.
Montano (lan Penny), with his sword,
Here intercepts the drunk and bids him stop ;
Biit heated Michael Cass, cannot afford
To stop and barney. He assaults the cop !
Meanwhile lago dances in the rear
Of the confusion, arid makes the still night
Ring with his clamor, till from far and near
The soldiers rush. Othello, with a light,
Bounds snarling in amongst the yelping crowd,
And straight demands the reason of the noise.
Alack, no jester’s there to cry aloud
The dear old soothing gag : “ Boys will be boys ! ”
Failing a jest to clear the atmosphere,
Passion prevails and Cassio is stripped
Of his high office. (There’s a moral here
Which many good teetotalers have skipped.)
The crowd clears off, and Cassio, bereft
Almost of hope, is cheered and comforted
By base lago, who is always left
Talking alone when folk go off to bed.
lago counsels him to sue for peace
Through Desdemona who, he shrewdly says,
Has taken of the Coon a lifelong lease,
And knows his coal-black heart and ragtime ways.
Poor Cassio the artful traitor thanks
And hurries off. lago lingers and
Reiriarks that all goes well, then slaps his shanks
And goes to bed. (Here faster play if the band.)
Act Three : The castle or a court therein
With wide and gorgeous tesselated floors,
Where Desdemona does her best to win
Mercy for Cassio, but only bores
The bus}’ Coon, who shoos her gently off
And knits his brows above his washing bill ;
Then rank lago does with wink and cough
Commence fair Desdemona’s fame to kill.
The tortured Coon, with rapid, panther strides
Goes up and down and round and round the court,
As the arch-villain lightly talks of brides
And thrills with joy at ev’ry snarl and snort.
Later he snatches from his gentle wife -
The hanky dropped by Desdemona when
She shivered for her European life
Beside the Coon. And, Scornful Reader, then
The play is blown before lago’s breath
And that darned bit of haberdashery ;
The Moor, like some wild endman, growls of death,
And raves of Blood and black Iniquity.
And all the time lago dances round
His patch of plots, encouraging the crop ;
And as he leaps he looks like one who’s found
A customer within his old clo’ shop.
There’s not a lucid interval until
Othello’s wife is lying there a corse.
Then Em lago speaks out with a will,
And talks and talks until she’s weak and hoarse.
lago darts away, as though he’d spied
Another bumpkin, or had flung a match
Among the stock about which he had lied.
Hot on his track, a steel-helmeted batch
Of soldiers, like the Fire Brigade, rush out
And hale him back, trussed up like any fowl.
And there he has to stay in horrid doubt,
Whilst the poor Coon disperses howl on howl
The “business” then is absolutely broke ;
lago writhes amid the mass of cord
And pants as if the acrid old clo’ smoke
Were stifling him. Then does the dark war-lord
Whip from his belt his ornamental knife
And makes a rush. ’Tis foiled. So then he takes
Just for a change his own confounded life,
And ev’ryone around him reels and quakes.
That ends the thing. ’Tis not a cheerful play—
This one wherein a nigger goes off pop
And kills his wife. I’ll call it from this day,
“ Othello, or lago’s Old Clo’ Shop.”
N.S.W.
KODAK.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
D.O.M.
BENEDICTINE
The Liqueur with 400 Years* Reputation .
irony. What attracts most about the Troubadours
is the evidence of their humanity. As everybody
knows, the ordinary actor person is not human ;
neither is he beast, bird nor fish; although,
to be sure, John Fuller, of other days,
singing “Sally in Our Alley,” had a quaint
resemblance to the upended denizen of the
deftp. The actor person generally is the in-
carnation of exaggerated self-importance. The
Troubadours are not. They are just ordinary
sensible folk who have taken to the boards to
show other variety entertainers how sane people
should be amused, and they don’t try to suggest
that they are anything else.
** * *
A look-in at Sydney Tivoli reveals the
great truth that the suffragette has provided
English joke manufacturers and comic-song
makers with a new subject to jest about, and as a
little joke goes a long way in England, they will
no doubt keep the lady going for the next 15
years. Dolly Harmer, English comedienne,
makes her biggest hit at H. Rickards’ stronghold
in a whirling turn founded on the exploits of the
women who are desperately endeavoring to bring
an old and slow country up to date. As the suf-
fragette has not yet been imported here, it is
impossible to say whether the performance is a
good imitation or just a wild parody. However,
it is vigorous and amusing ; and as that is all the
crowd cares for, it will probably endure among
the English as a clever satire long after the last
suffragette has triumphantly thrown her chain
and padlock into the Thames. Fred Curran, who
is billed as the “English Parody King,” makes a
reappearance after two years, and is loyally
applauded. The acrobatic Trapnells, Bertha
Stuart (Scotch singer), Guest and Newlyn (sketch
artists), and Fred Bluett (comedian) are the other
performers who help most to keep the crowd from
opening its mouth wearily in the management’s
face. Brown and Robinson, Clarence Tisdale,
and Hassan, the Eastern Bewilderment, plod along
undisturbed.
* * *
At Sydney Lyceum, Mr. Spencer is show-
ing some views of N.S.W. scenery taken around
Wyongand Tuggerah by himself; and they are
superb, in their doloe far niente atmosphere of
long shadows shimmering on sleepy waters. Then,
as the vision of the lotus land fades out, a scene of
lurid factory life rushes on. Great furnaces glow
within a glass factory, where toiling children
are kicked and cuffed to greater efforts;
and woven in and out of these scenes
of industrial stress is a melodramatic story
of the drunken husband, the former lover
grown wealthy, and the usual struggle between
right and wrong, with the happy ending. On the
moving film all struggles end that way. That
the coming of the moving picture was the begin-
ning of the end of stage melodrama as we
have known it hitherto is sure and certain.
Things are done on the screen that may never be
done on the stage. For instance, the Lyceum
shows an Indian, who, finding his squaw has been
abducted by a cowboy, starts in pursuit. You
see the cowboy, with the Indian girl bound in
front of him, galloping along the usual Wild West
track at a dizzy speed. Behind is the loping
Indian, who overtakes him and springs on the rear
of the mustang ; and then, on the back of the gal-
loping horse, there rages an indescribable battle
with bowie knives, which ends with the death of
the abductor. Down at the Glaciarium, Wests
are booming with another of the splendid Pathe
Frhres’ films—“An Escape of 1870,” a hair-raising
incident of the Franco-German unpleasant-
ness. The picture of Prince Foote win-
ning the Melbourne Cup suggests that in the
near future only the people who wish to bet will
go to the course. Those who only go for the sake
of the racing won’t go—they will wait for the
’graph. One sees it plainer on the screen ; and
more of it, too. The Bijou is now quite palatial,
the improvements having turned what was once a
rather stuffy hall into a fine, airy amphitheatre.
The programme at the renovated establishment is
a good one, and rings the changes in the way that
the best managers have devised to catch all
tastes and appetites.
* ifc * *
Miss Lucille Stuart Benstead, the nightin-
gale who was born at Alice Springs—in the centre
of Australia and on the track of the direct trans-
continental railway—is to give a concert at Sydney
Town Hall on December 2. Then she takes the
sea-highway towards Berlin for further study.
Steffani, of Sydney, has been training Miss Ben-
stead’s great soprano organ in the way it should
trill, and she has been enthusiastically patted on
the head by Clara Butt, who described her voice
as “ beautiful,” and patted on the back by Ken-
nerley Rumford, who took the same view. Alice
Springs, according to Mrs. Benstead, is “ a para-
dise”; so the daughter who was born there is
probably a bird of paradise.
** * *
Last week’s mention of ‘ ‘ The Merry
Widow,” at Her Majesty’s, should have included
a word of thanks to Maurice Dudley, who is the
Nisch of this revival. Nisch is a quietly-humorous
person, except for his facial make-up, which indi-
cates a mistaken endeavor to raise a larf. Gouriet,
who also is very entertaining in other respects,
makes the same mistake of putting a pantomime
face on what is just a broad comedy matter. The
character is naturally droll, but the imper-
sonator’s nose is unnaturally grotesque— i.e.,
“ funny ” in the eyes of only those people
who smile at the humorless antics of Ban-
tock, and foolish in the estimation of the
large silent majority. “The Widow” will con-
tinue to make a further favorable impression
for another week or so, whilst “The Lady
Dandies” is in rehearsal. There are some fine
musical moments in the performance, and many
good jokes and warmly amorous suggestions.
Moreover, the charm of incomprehensibility
attaches to Sonia and her blessed Prince. Con-
sidering that she had the sense to capture a multi-
millionaire, in the first instance, her strong pre-
dilection for a prancing waster is as unaccountable
as his alleged objection to marry her for her
money.
** * *
At the Royal, two more nights of ‘ ‘ Cinde-
rella ” will be the last of that oft-repeated panto
in Melbourne. “ The Girl Behind the Counter ”
is due for revival on Saturday. She was a tuneful
young person when she pretended to sell flowers
and things earlier in the year; but her experi-
ences behind the counter hardly justified any
allusion to them in the title of the show.
“ THE CHEAT," AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
DR. VORLAND
(Eardley Turner).
JOAN FIELDING
(Dorothy Grimston).
“Zaza,” the plain, straightforward story
of the man, the wife and the other girl, in which
Nellie Stewart made her first appearance nearly
seven years ago, is back again at Melbourne
Princess’s for a few nights. Nellie Stewart is the
Girl, and the drama is mostly about her, as will be
remembered. At the outset she represents a
variety actress of the giddiest description, in a
scene where the “goings on” are worthy of a
penny novelette. Having seduced the one man
who didn’t make any amorous advances to her,
she chucks up the stage, as Camille of old chucked
up her gilded salon, and becomes a vulgarised
edition of that sentimental heroine. She remains
vulgar and tempestuous until they have parted,
owing to the small matter of an existent wife
having arisen in their conversation ; but after two
years of immense success at “the halls,” she is
revealed as a new and passionless Zaza, who is
working out her salvation in luxurious conditions,
with a staff of 12 servants to minister to her simple
wants. Critically considered, Zaza is impossible ;
but her situations in the second, third and fourth
acts (there are five acts in all) would be possible
to a different of young woman.
Nellie Stewart was more forcible in her
tempestuousness seven years ago, when the prin-
cipal men-characters —her lover Bernard and her
stage partner Cascart—were inspiringly played.
In the garish first act she is perhaps even a little
more daring and amusing than of yore. In the
mawkish, sentimental passages she is neither
stronger nor weaker. She was always at her
worst where she meets Bernard’s dear little cheeild
and makes her apologies to his wife. The play
also is then at its worst., But her best acting is
still very good, and for the falling-off in the effect
of the play her men-supporters are mainly to
blame. Claude King is gloomy and uninterest-
ingly natural as the lover, whilst Ashford, as
Cascart, is a middle-aged bourgeois figure in what
is essentially a light Bohemian part. On the
other hand. Miss Maggie Knight is strikingly
realistic at times in the character of Zaza’s thirsty
aunt; Miss Trench gives an amusing caricature
of Natalie, the servant; and Frederick Moyes is
both useful and ornamental in a minor capacity.
Which last remark applies to some of the giddy
girls in the opening scene, especially to the angel
with the salmon-pink stockings.
** * *
“ One of the Best,” now at Melb. King’s,
is, as many people know, founded on the now
historic, but rather faded, Dreyfus affaire ; but
no Dreyfus who ever stalked to judgment could
be like Lieutenant Dudley Keppel, the Dreyfus
of this piece. The original Frenchman would
have suffered his degradation with some outward
philosophic calm, and probably with the dignity
of ah instinctive gentleman; but the unreal
Keppel endures the stripping of his ornaments
with piteous looks and the painful resignation of
the actor. Moreover, his theatricality doesn’t
stop at a last emotional hug of his sacred sword,
but extends to giving a showy yell for the King,
just as an unlucky convict, before getting hanged
for a murder he didn’t commit, might cry,
“Three cheers for his Excellency the Execu-
tioner!” Keppel is an impossible soldier, and
the fact that Max Maxwell plays the part gives
the character a sort of spiritual beauty and
exaltation not unlike that of some of
Wagner’s minstrel knights in “ Tannhauser.”
In this part Maxwell is not an appealing mummer,
and with his rich, rococo elocution is apt to make
a platitude like a pageant. Also, he is rather
sticky in a love scene, and talks the nicest pastry
with Miss Jennie Pollock, a lady who betrays no
marked gifts as a treacly sentimentalist. Bland
Holt and his missus dispense some thin comedy
during the course of the fabrication ; Styan is
consistently heavy as a person of des-
picable character; and Charles Brown is
acceptable as an explosive type of British
Army officer. As the red-faced colonel of melo-
drama Brown is always hearty, and sufficiently
convincing. Maurice Kemp and Godfrey Cass
make one anxious concerning the future of their
dramatic art; but Miss Harrie Ireland acts more
than respectably as a well-dressed lady of sinful
habits. During her wickedness she wears some
crushing creations (one, with shamrocks as big as
watermelons, is a special study in vegetation);
but they only serve to throw into relief the weari-
ness Of B. Holt’s well-worn scenery, which bears
the honorable scar 3 of many revivals on its breast.
** * *
At the Opera House a graceful young
woman, Miss Athmore Grey, came along last
Saturday with her reproduction of the Salome
Dance, which is pretty much the same perform-
ance that attracted (and wearied) the crowd in
various European places aforetime. At the Opera
House it is well staged and neatly executed, but
as an attraction it is unpromising. The sea-lions
are,still juggling, and Piper continues to twang
many banjos as skilfully as he performs on one
instrument at a time. Other turns are less
amazing, though exceptionally numerous.
** * *
The last thing which happened at the
Town Hall was an Amy Castles farewell concert
on Saturday; and for the present there are no
advertisements bearing on the future of that dis-
respected place. At the Masonic Hall the name
of Rita Hope is announced in connection with
Saturday next, and at the Exhibition Building the
Melba Charity Concert will practically close the
season with a bang on Monday (15th).
** * #
Now that Melbourne is recovering from
the feast of gee-gee, the Circus announces “last
nights.” Wirth Bros, threaten to tear the tent
from its present moorings next Wednesday morn-
ing, so Tuesday will be the last night when the
lion and the bear will lie down together in the
folds of the Yarra’s summer smell.
** # #
Adelaide, which has to take its pantomimes
whenever it can get them, is crowding to see as
much of “Jack and Jill ” as can be squeezed into
the moderate dimensions of the Royal. The
players are much as in the eastern capitals,
except for the regretted absence of Fred Leslie,
for whom Darrell appears as the Baron. The
great rooster, the jewel display and
seasons are all on view, and the box-office is
working overtime.
Someone, who evidently reads his S. M.
Herald faithfully, recently wrote to that con-
gested paper:—
What use is it to carry goods hundreds of miles if they
get blocked at the port? What is wanted is more lines
to the harbor, and it is an immediate want. More rail-
way wharfage is required, with more lines to the water.
The present lines are not sufficient to carry the traffic,
and it will be worse in the future.
Observe the singular : “port,” “harbor,” “water”
—all meaning Sydney, of course. Goods must
be carried hundreds of miles—to Sydney ; more
lines must be built—to Sydney ; more wharfage
must be supplied—at Sydney ; in fact, there isn’t
a solitary darned port in New South Wales—but
Sydney. Or, if there is, the Herald’s corres-
pondent never heard of it, and the Herald (pub-
lished and grown fat at Sydney) won’t enlighten
him.
“ S.S.”: Nellie Stewart would be a much more effective
actress if she were not so desperately attached to pathos,
bathos, and all the squashy features of the drama to
which she is devoting her time and talents. In “ Sweet
Nell,” for instance, when a chance of squeezing some
sadness occurs, how Our Nell hangs to it! Here and
there, in each act, she finds occasion for little slabs of
grievous sentimentality where woe is not called for.
These sudden droppings into pathos are more in the
nature of collapses, and are not good art. They make the
play jumpy, and give the impression that Ellen
Gwynne was afflicted with spasms. When Nell says,
“ My father died in a debtor’s prison,” you would think
the old boy had been torn limb from limb by wild clothes-
horses, or grilled over a slow iceberg.
“0.E.F.” has a nightmare: The orchestra blared a
song-prelude, and the coal-black singer in the snow-white
shirt strode on and lifted the lid of his head in a shark-
like smile. The face rolled apart like the waters of
the Red Sea would have done had they been black, and a
sea-floor of white teeth was bared to the world. When
the ivory had been on exhibition several seconds, the
singer straightened up, licked his lips and started to eat
a mushy love song. The long ballad was all about a nice,
sweet, soft girl and a tender farewell. A white man with
less teeth would not have sung about the girl as if she
were food ; also a white man would not have licked his
lips after every verse as if he had just enjoyed a cannibal
feast. The inky singer did both these things ; he snapped
the words off like a famished hound, and his tongue-play
was dreadful to witness. About the only things needed
were a napkin to polish his countenance with and a
counter and cash register, with a proud cannibal-restau-
rant woman behind it to take the money. I never thought
a song could be made to sound and look so much like a
feed.
ZAZA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A naughty girl named Zaza, of the songandance
persuasion,
A serio-chronic charmer with the morals of
Camille,
Took a fancy to a merchant, so they started a
liaison—
Sing hey ! the man of bizness and the Queen of
Vaudeville !
Six months they lived together in a cottage small
and shady.
And revelled in the sweetness of a new domestic
life,
Till Zaza heard her merchant had another pretty
lady—
(She did not yet suspect him of a lawful little
wife).
Then the unreflecting Zaza, with her mind on fire
and slaughter,
Went to Paris to raise ructions in the hated rival’s
house;
But finding her the mother of the merchant’s law-
ful daughter,
She silently departed with the meekness of a
mouse.
And nothing would have happened to disturb the
fond relations
Of the music-hall performer and her somewhat
stodgy beau
Had she not indulged in comments which invite
recrimination^
’Twixt a man of “good position” and a woman
who is “ low.”
She ordered him to leave her, and he went away
dejected ;
And, whilst he chased the dollars in a foreign
land afar,
She resumed her songandancing, and uprose, as
was expected,
To the eminent position of a Paris-fashioned
“ star.”
She met him two years later—she was tripping to
her carriage—
And, being now a widower, he went to claim his
own ;
But Zaza told him gently that she wasn’t on for
marriage;
She had put her Past behind her, and had sWorn
to live alone.
In vain her baffled suitor told how sadly he had
missed her;
Her feelings were reflected in the pallor of her
cheek ;
She begged the stodgy gentleman to love her as a
sister.
Whose salary had risen to five thousand francs a
week.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Beaumont Smith, secretary to William Anderson,
writes: —“ Hiphen ” has got some very bad information
from somewhere. He says (B. 28/10/’O9) that William
Anderson has abandoned the idea of having a Christmas
pantomime, “ Babes in the Wood.” Mr. Anderson has
just returned from London, and amongst the engage-
ments he made there for his Christmas pantomime in Mel-
bourne are Nat Clifford (the nimble one), for Dame ; Miss
Lillian Lea (a leading English burlesque and pantomime
actress), for Principal Boy ; and Foreman and Fanning,
two very original patter comedians, who will be the two
bad uncles. Several important Australian engagements
have also been fixed up. Mr. Anderson’s scenic artist,
Rege Robins, is busy painting pantomime scenery ; the
ballet mistress is busy training pantomime fairies; and,
generally, the King’s Theatre is full of an atmosphere of
pantomime these days.
“ 0.K.” : The statement by one “Hiphen” (B.
28/10/’O9) that “ Anderson’s threatened panto (at
Melbourne King’s) has been abandoned” as the re-
sult of “an amalgamation, trust, combine or
amicable arrangement of some sort” between th«
three principal theatrical firms will be contradicted
in due course by the Christmas production of Anderson’s
panto. The alleged “combine” has no existence what-
ever as regards competition in shows. Managers will
continue to “fly at each other’s throats,” as “ Hiphen ”
expresses it, in the same old way, their amicable arrange-
ment being - confined to the purely commercial side
of theatrical business, in which the public has
no {Personal interest. Melbourne is to have two
pantos presently, and seeing that the result
of such competition last Christmas was highly satisfac-
tory to both sides there is no visible reason why it
shouldn’t happen again. Meanwhile the Clarke and
Meynell firm is reviving “Cinderella,” which fact in itself
disproves the allegation of a concerted plan of action by
the three managements. No scheme for “ cutting up ”
the patronage of the public would be likely to give satisfac-
tion all roundu therefore, rival showmen not only persist
in their rivalry, but are at great pains to keep their de-
signs as dark as possible from one another, like every
kind of competitive trader. Even in the matter of news-
paper advertising they can have no hard and fastagreemen t,
save a mutual promise to refrain from forcing one another
into unnecessary expense. For instance, the showman
who has a lot of gorgeous-picture posters on the hoardings
would be glad to arrange an all-round reduction of
newspaper ads., but this wouldn’t suit the showman
who was not putting any attractive “paper” about.
They would all like to “ browse peaceably side by side on
the green herbage of the public,” as “ Hiphen ” suggests ;
but experience has proved that when competition
slackens there is not much herbag-e to browse on.
Nothing would be easier than for theatrical firms to com-
bine to kill the business. Any arrangement for securing
a steady profit on the minimum of speculative risk would,
be doomed to failure. People don’t go to the theatre
as a duty. It is a habit with them, but they would soon
grow out of the habit if it ceased'so give them what they
considered a fair amount of pleasure for their money.
The little lady whom most Australians knew as Francie
Adler, but who now is “ Madame ’’.Frances Alda, is said to
be eng-aged to Gatti Casazza, director of the New York
Metropolitan Opera House. The last time the writer saw
Frances she w’as singing a rather dull coon song on the
stage of Harry Rickards’ Melbourne Opera House ; but
since those days she has sprinted towards the summit of
the vegetable. If, as alleged, she is going to w r ed an
Italian person who directs on the topmost bough, she
would appear to have arrived.
Beaumont Smith, secretary to William Anderson, tells
a yarn apropos of the overfed egotism of G. Bernard
Shaw. Just recently, Smith interviewed Shaw in Lon-
don for the purpose of inducing the poseur to visit Aus-
tralia on a lecturing tour. But Shaw was obdurate. “ I
do not want to leave civilisation,” he said. Whereat.
Smith, rather jarred by the implied reflection on his,
country, retorted : “At least, Australia is civilised
enough to have heard of Mr. George Bernard Shaw.”
And then it was that Shaw’s opinion of this country
seemed noticeably to improve. “ A fine young country ! ”
or something of the sort, was his gracious comment on
the Commonwealth, and then added with a rush of his
egregious self conceit, “ I am glad to see that it is adopt-
ing some of MY suggestions!” It might be mentioned
that Shaw makes a point of advising principalities and
peoples in his spare time. Even the Almighty has been
indebted to him on several occasions for some very
sensible counsel.
LINES TO A RETIRING MUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bland Holt will disband his company at the conclusion
of his present Melbourne season. A big: section of the
play-going- public will suffer by his retirement.— Poverty
Point Item.
Dear Mr. Holt, I’d like a word with you
Ere from the stage you finally depart.
I’d like to say—and Bland, old chap, ’tis true—
You’ll leave an aching void within my heart.
Oft when my soul was filled with glum despair,
Up Bourke-street I have wandered to your show,
And, purchasing a stall, I’ve banished care,
And watched the blood in red abundance flow.
Your heroes were the heroes of my youth ;
Into my mind ’twas they who first instilled
The blessedness of Righteousness and Truth.
(Whit vvohder that with probity I’m filled !)
Oft as a kid I braved your early door,
And sucked enormous peppermints till eight
O’clock arrived ; then feasted on the gore—
That gore which flowed remorselessly as Fate.
I used to gloat o’er every blanky crime ;
The villain greet with hisses and cat-calls ;
And in the intervals employ my time
Projecting peppermints into the stalls.
The she-fiend with the deep contralto voice,
Who of all sorts of men did corpses make —
I loved her dearly ; yet did I rejoice
When Nemesis at last did her o’ertake.
I loathed the villain. But his aide-de-kong,
The hard-faced gaol-bird (mostly Bill or Dan),
I liked, because this person would not wrong
The Pure of Heart. (There’s good in ev’ry man !)
Though he’d committed nearly ev’ry crime
That’s known to man, he cried in accents wild :
“ Gawd knows, I’ye bin a bad un in me time—
But keep yer gold! I will not 'arm th’ child ! ”
And oh ! the saintly, white-robed heroine !
I’ll ne’er forget the way she’d almost burst
With rage when by the villain asked to sin,
And cry, “ NO, Thomas Burton, do your wont ! ”
And you, Bland, when you cracked an ancient,joke,
Sometimes perhaps you heard a squeak of glee
Arise, and wondered whence it came. Old bloke,
Most probably that squeak belonged to me.
I loved your good old show in pristine days ;
Since then I’ve made some coin by penning jeers,
And scoffing at the plays I used to praise—
For stage illusions vanish with the years.
Still, Mr. Holt, one last word ere we part—
(Excuse me while I heave a heavy sigh,
And drop a tear, and still my flutt’ring heart) —
Old fellow, au revoir, but not good-bye.
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


EDUCATION BY POST.™/ LT S
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
A BEAUTIFUL GIFT
'
1
For LADY
or GENTLEMAN.
NOW THAT XMAS IS NEAR
You will want to think about suitable
gifts. For, it is presumed, you are a
generous and, consequently, a lovable
individual.—“He who giveth gifts is
thrice happy.”
The “Stereo Carbine”
for Stereoscopic or Postcard Pictures
for Daylight Loading 801 l Films or
Plates, sfin. x 3Jin., is a High-class
Camera d”e Luxe, and as Stereoscopic
Photography is now so popular, the
above Camera would be a splendid gift.
PRICE, £9 10s.
Postage, N.S.W., 1/3 ; Inter-State, 2/2.
We stock Cameras from 6/6 to £5O.
HARRINGTONS LTD.
PHOTO. SUPPLY AND
CAMERA MERCHANTS,
We Lead in Australasia
SYDNEY-
-386 George Street.
MELBOURNE-
-266 Collins Street (The Block).
BRISBANE —
93 & 95 Queen Street,
ADELAIDE—
Cawler Pl£*ce,
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Adelaide is arguing warmly over a recent
action for damages. A girl of 18 or so found her-
self by mistake in a smoking-carriage—one of the
corridor build, used on suburban lines. To the
company at large she mentioned her mistake.
One of the company replied—thought himself
encouraged—changed his seat for hers, talked to
her till she got out at the next stop. Then a
second passenger moved along and charged him
with insulting the lady, and (on being met with a
remark about “ people who live in glass houses”)
hit him very hard. No. 1 got a verdict
for £3O damages, his doctor saying that an
operation will be necessary. The girl, as evi-
dence for the defence, said she had been really
annoyed with No. 1, and thought he “ought
to have got five years,” but admitted that she
had once smiled at his absurdities. Now “ Pater-
familias ” and “Mother of Eight ” are writing to
the papers and enclosing odd half-crowns towards
No. 2’s expenses, with the hope that his noble
conduct will be widely copied. And cynical
people are beginning to reply that he did not
take a hand till after the lady had rescued herself,
and that in any case he had so many pounds and
inches the better of No. 1 that his halo is cheaply
earned.
• • * *
“ J.G.”—his red light danger :
I mu expecting the father of a smash one of these days
at YVallan (Vic.) railway station. Wallan is about the
busiest country station in Victoria, and trains are going
through at all hours of the day and night. At one time
all the goods traffic was worked on one side of the station
and the passenger traffic on the other side, but for some
reason or other, or for no reason at all, a new policy sud-
denly whirled into the premises and blew the arrange-
ment to smithereens or thereabouts. The result is that
all the shunting has to be done across both the up and
down passenger rails, and some day a bolting engine and
cars will come slathering down the incline from Kilniore
junction and plough into a stationary across the rails; or
the brakes on the Sydney express will refuse to act going
down the hill, and the vicinity will be strewn with pas-
sengers cut into 115 pieces, and I he stationmaster will get
the sack, and if Deakin is on board he will be definite for
once in his life—definitely dead.
A criminal case at the Sydney quarter
sessions last week had a queer ending. The
charge was against a youth for a serious offence
upon a girl of nine years, and the defence was
an alibi. The evidence against the accused seemed
good, but the alibi looked good also. The jury
wandered in its mind and was locked up for the
night. Next morning the State re-opened the
case. A constable went into the box to swear that
on the way from the dock the accused had
asked him how much he (the cop) thought he
would get. The policeman replied, “About 12
months,” and he said that the prisoner
professed himself quite satisfied with the
arrangement. The constable opined from this
that the accused had really “done it,” and he
admitted that he had. That was the constable’s
story, slightly frayed at the edges owing to the
fact that he thought the confession happened at
either 1.30 or 5.30. On the other hand, the accused
flatly declared the alleged confession to be
an effort of the constabulary imagination,
and the jury had so many doubts that
it hesitated for some hours more. Finally it said
“ guilty,” and the sentence was three years. It is
to be hoped that this utterly unsatisfactory mode
STREET SKETCH.
of securing convictions won’t grow on the N.S.W.
Law Department. An alleged confession that
isn’t written, signed or witnessed, and which is
flatly denied, is no sort of “confession” to go
upon, and the person who attempted to tender it as
evidence should have been rushed out of the court.
Any weak case could be turned into a strong one
on these lines. In fact, there seems no reason
why all the prisoners on hand should not confess
during the lunch adjournment to all the policemen
available. Probably this prisoner hasn’t the price.
of an appeal about iiim, and in that case the con-
viction will stand. But it looks like a conviction
that is liable to fall down at any moment.
* * * *
One of those irresponsible little Lizzie
persons whom McLachlan, the Victorian M.L.A.,
wants to take under his wing, fluttered into a
Melbourne court the other day. The charge was
bigamy, and the age of the defendant was 17.
The case, as alleged by the prosecution, is that
Lizzie was in an interesting condition, and (say)
Bill, aged 21, being desirous of putting a good face
on things, married her on August 22 of this year.
They dwelt together till October 16. Then one
day young Mrs. Bill went up the street to buy some
groceries. On the way she met (say) Billjim, aged
20. It seems that Billjim also knew of Lizzie’s
condition, and also wanted to save appearances
by marriage. Presumably he didn’t know that
appearances were already saved, and that the
lady was Mrs. Bill. Anyhow, they were
married, and so appearances were saved a
second time. Only things were complicated by
“ Laxo-Tonic,” wrote one who was ill,
“ Is a health-giving-, nourishing pill;
I’ve never felt better,
So excuse this short letter,
From vour ever affectionate Bill.”
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, lOJd. and Is. 0(1.*'
FAMISHED.
THE SMALL GIRL: “ Oh, mummer, don't he look hungry?"
the disappearances of the lady. First she
vanished from the house of Mr. Bill, and became
Mrs. Billjirn for a while. Then, after 10 days she
vanished hack to her old quarters and resumed
the old character of Mrs. Bill. How Bill took the
disappearance and the reappearance is not stated,
but Billjim rushed into print, or at least into legal
proceedings. The magistrate thought there was
enough evidence to justify him in committing
Lizzie (Mrs. Lizzie Bill) for trial. And it is this
sort of Lizzie whom McLachlan, the hay-
seed politician, proposes to take seriously.
He is quite prepared, on little more evidence than
her bare say-so, to make the man marry her under
tremendous pains and penalties. And the trouble
is that Lizzie, being a flighty and changeable being,
is likely to go wrong with two men, to force a
third one (probably a complete stranger) to marry
her under McLachlan’s amazing scheme, arid then
to bolt with a fourth. She might even marry
McLachlan himself under his own law, out of
sheer gratitude.
urn**
Australians who go to the Cold Country to
see what Whiskers Ward of the Sydney Tele-
graph calls the “ venerable seats of England,”
find that some, of the oldest seats, or at least the
seats with the oldest people sitting on them, are
about the Thames Embankment in London, just
under the shadow of Parliament House. The
Saturday Review recently had a wail on this
subject. One John Bland wrote to say that
on various occasions he had taken ladies —
“colonial” ladies, mostly from Australia and
Maoriland —to see the Embankment by night,
and that horrible, hungry, homeless things
had chummered at them and asked for
and inquired if they had any Irish stew in
their pockets ; that •shapeless things had fol-
lowed them and made irrelevant remarks
about bread ; and that tattered, houseless,
roofless things had padded after them like
wolves and glared with eyes like furnaces. John
Bland suggested that these Englishmen and
Englishwomen should be shooed off the vener-
able seats of England and chased into the East
End, where they wouldn’t offend the wealthy
classes and annoy the Duchess de tit. Clambake.
The idea is to have, a sort of ghetto for the poor,
or to keep them outside the walls of the city, like
the Eaters of Unclean Things outside Carthage.
But apparently the Carthaginian Eaters had
unclean things to eat. Hanno and Hamilcar and.
Hannibal and Hasdrubal the Fat seem to have
thrown the cow’s innards over the wall after the
cow was killed for dinner, and so it was worth
while being an Eater of Unclean Things. In
London the cow’s innards are made into tripe,
and its gore into blood puddings, and its feet into
cow-heel, and its tail into ox-tail soup, and its
hde is sold, and its hair is exported, and'its horns
are used up to the last gasp, and there is very
little left for those who sit in old tatters on the
venerable seats of England.
The one-horse, or one-goat, township of
Kyabram (Vic.) is loth to lose the last vestige of
the notoriety it enjoyed in the fading past as the
birthplace of a “ reform ” movement. Kyabram
pleaded for inclusion in the circuit of Amy Castles’
concert tour, and when its name was added to the
list the inhabitants shook the hayseeds from their
whiskers and, in a burst of musical culture, booked
every available seat in their local hall, where the
hens roost during the off season. Then they
arranged a grand historical welcome to Amy,
which is to be emphasised by the presentation of
a wildly illuminated address, or a silver-plated
mug, or some other characteristic souvenir of
Victoria’s most obtrusive town speck.
**■*■*■
Arthur Lynch, the Victorian who had to
swim through a sea or two of difficulties before he
got safely seated in the House of Commons, lately
started a little discussion in London on the use of
the word “Colonial.” He referred to the matter
incidentally in a question in the House, and then
wrote to the Daily Mail about it
Australia is not a Colony. It is a Commonwealth.
And its component parts are States. The term
“Colonial,” as applied to an Australian, is not only
inaccurate; it is offensive. The statement will be borne
out by the great majority of men born in Australia, no
matter from what country their parents may have come.
It was a terse statement of a very plain fact ; but
it gave Nawmau Bayles, Toorak’s superiah young
man, a chance to say-ah a few-ah words, and to
put-ah this common fellow in his place. Where-
fore Nawman wrote that Lynch was giving “a
wrong impression of us Australians ” :
But when he says that to call an Australian a colonial
“is an insult,” I join issue with him. lam a State mem-
ber of Parliament, and therefore can speak with some
knowledge. Does a man object to being called by his
mother the pet name she used when he was young? No !
Neither do we.
So because Nawman’s mother may possibly have
called him Toddles, and he is the sort of grown-
up man who doesn’t mind being called
Toddles openly in the public street and the
garish light of day, therefore Nawman writes to
state that every adult male citizen likes to be
publicly called Toddles—or Baby or Tootsicums.
Naturally, however, he misses the whole point.
First, the people who call us “the colonies” or
“the colonials” are not our mother. Any old
English gentleman of 130 or so who is still
wandering around may be, in a manner of speak-
ing, a parent of Australia ; but the superiah young
person of Bayles’ own age who happens to be
living in England just now isn’t any more Aus-
tralia’s mother than he is its cow or its grandchild.
And, secondly and thirdly and tenthly, even if
the young man was Australia’s mother, he doesn’t
use “the colonies” and “the colonials ” as terms
of fondness. He only uses them to suggest his
own blawsted superiority. And after inspecting
Nawman Bayles at close quarters he will probably
conclude that he has every right to do it.
A FAINT, PROTESTING SQUEAK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Strutt had shown that if radium behaved in
the interior of the earth as it did at the surface, rocks
similar to those in the earth's crust could not extend to a
•depth of more than 45 miles below the surface. Pro-
lessor Strutt had also shown that a specimen of the
mineral thorianite must be more than 240 million years
•old.— News item.
I have but sixty years or so—
Or seventy, maybe—
Ere I lay down my bones and go
Into Eternity.
And this old Earth that madly spins
On through the endless years
Is heavier by all my sins
And wetter by my tears.
Then somewhere in its ag&d crust
My only legacy—
My weary bones —will turn to dust
In Nineteen Fifty-Three.
Observe me ! lam ten stone four,
And I’ve not travelled yet
This continent from shore to shore,
That is—from wet to wet.
I’ve not been deeper in the ground
Than fifty feet or so ;
I travel in a tiny round,
From which I dare not go.
I’ve not been higher in the air
Than fourteen storeys. Then
I could not calm my frantic hair
Till I got down again.
My dreadful insignificance
Oppresses me when I
Direct through spectacles a glance
Up to the starry sky.
For there are worlds and planets that
No man will ever tread
Who hurries round beneath a hat
To earn his daily bread !
Above me —all around—beneath
Immensity I find—
Vast things on which I blunt the teeth
Of my distracted mind.
So when some learnid man appears
And tells me that a rock
Has lain two hundred million years,
I do not get a shock.
Neither do I my senses lose
And fall down in a heap
When told the rocks the pushes use
Are forty-five miles deep.
Such facts—like that annoying guess,
The distance to the Moon—
Do not my abject mind distress,
For I must perish soon.
What now to me is all the Past ?
What will the Future be ?
Even To-day is much too vast
For microscopic Me !
And, e’en supposing that I take
My Science now to heart,
What are the odds that Time won’t make
Me play the damphool’s part ?
’Twas but a little while ago
They said the Earth was flat!
Now it is round ! I’d like to know
If they’re quite sure of that!
I would not eat my old straw hat, •
Nor would I beat the air,
If someone demonstrated that
The whole d d thing was square !
And there are more unlikely things
Than that. Some men afar
May prove that, as the old Earth swings,
It is triangular !
They may be right. But I don’t care !
It matters naught to me ;
I’m but a visitor, and there
Yawns black Eternity !
I’m here To-Day, and gone To-Day ;
I do but cool my heels
Before I hurry on my way
(“ Ten Minutes Here for Meals”).
What care I for the wayside town
That dozes in the gloom,
Who merely gulp a sandwich down
In the Refreshment Room ?
N.S.W.
KODAK.


The Truth Must Stand.
You know the proverb, “A lie has no
legs ” —it cannot stand when put to the test.
If the public try an article advertised to
possess certain merits and the advertised
merits are found to have “ not a leg to stand
upon,” that article cannot gain in the public
favour. Sunlight Soap has steadily gained
in the public favour from the date of its
-ntroduction, and long ago it attained, and
t continues to maintain, its pre-eminent
position amongst Soaps of having the largest
sale in the world.
“AYE, THERE’S THE RUB!”
df
YOU only need a very little of
CHERRY BLOSSOM PASTE
to get a grand shine to your
boots, and a few rubs with a cloth
are all that is necessary. You
get more for your money and it
goes further. What else could
you want when you remember
the good, wet-resisting qualities
of the paste ? Black and Tan tins
at 3d. and 6d. Write us if you
cannot get supplied locally.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney-
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
g
An Acknowledged Success.
PEAPE’S IHDIAN-MADE RIDING TROUSERS.
Following on the popularity of our Indian 2-Garment
Washing Suits, we are introducing, with considerable
success, Hiding Trousers made expressly to our order in
India. They are easy, cool, light in weight, yet sturdy
and extra well sewn at straining points. Materials are
well shrunk, and the most appropriate for hard riding or
station work or for recreation in town. The Trousers may
be worn with belt or braces, and are offered as exemplary
value at moderate prices for summer wear.
IN KHARKI CORD, 16/6. IN RHARKI DRILL, 12/6.
POSTED 9d. EXTRA.
New Catalogue of Men’s Wear forwarded on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHEN DISTANCE LENDS.
Him : “Do you think you could love me if I were far away?"
Her: “Certain! Why, the farther away you arc the more I love you."
Thus the Girl at the country pub :
Where do I come in? Do I come in at all? Or do I
simply go out? lam eookess, etc., at a N.S.W. country
pubery. There are railway duplication works going oii,
and the navvy musters something like 2000 strong. The
place reeks with talk of liberty, equality, and eight bob a
day. I work seven days a week and 12 hours each day,
and my wild daily remuneration is 3s. My hours might
be a little less, only these unionists loaf in the bar talk-
ing politics and t.he like instead of coming in promptly to
tea, and so the meal drags along and I don’t finish till 8.30.
This sort of thing makes me wish I had a union of my
own—one that would make the united piek-and-shoveller
sit up. As it is, I have to sit up—till all hours. And my
day’s toil starts at 6.30.
A LESSON IN HORSEMANSHIP.
BERTIE (breathlessly): “How will I sit when he’s landing on t’other side?”
DOLLY “On the top rail of the fence.”
There was a “Bird Day” in Melbourne
State schools during Cup week, but it is com-
plained that “on account of the races attendance
was sin s 11, and interest was not marked.” Now,
if it had been a “ Dead Bird Day ” !
The Inspector-General of Penal Establish-
ments for Victoria is quoting some more statistics
in support of the allegation that crime has been a
diminishing quantity of late years. Victoria,
according to this sophistical authority, has made
a greater advance in virtue than even N.S.W.,
where the gaol population fell 50 percent, in 16
years. The Victorian daily average of prisoners
was 891 last year, as against 1825 16 years pre-
viously, when the population was considerably
less. The figures are gratifying only on the
assumption tiiat the interpretation of the word
“crime” is as wide as of yore, and that the police
are as honest and vigilant as ever in dealing with
criminals. Granting that drunkenness has
diminished in Melbourne since the boom time,
admitting that the elastic offence of “insulting
behavior” is no longer stretched to the limit of
absurdity, the fact remains that thenumber of per-
sons actually in gaol is a questionable indication
of the number who ought to be there. If the
prisons were emptied of their population, and the
police made no more arrests, the Inspector-
General of Penal Establishments would presum-
ably rejoice over the arrival of the millenn uni.
The idea that a diminished total of convicts may
be consistent with' an increased number of
criminals at large doesn’t seem to have occurred
to this illogical official.
One of Victoria’s most-paragraphed detec-
tives was discovered the other day, working iti
the Oat.heart mine, Ararat; and the miners, re-
senting this spying, threatened to instantly shed
their tools if he wasn’t withdrawn. He was with -
drawn, promptly. Still, the business suggests an
idea. Suppose Commissioner O’Callaghan puts
the whole of his sleuths at work underground,
and engages miners for the neglected business of
suppressing criminals? They couldn’t very well
make a worse job of it, and they might do a lot
better. If an active and intelligent trucker, for
instance, had been sent in pursuit of Bauer’s mur-
derer, he might have brought the criminal back in
his truck the very samp day.
Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigo-
rate the stomach, improve the digestion, and
regulate the bowels.*
Sydney is in the throes of a bottle-oh
strike, and its dead marine lies in the back yard
undisturbed by the raucous voice that usually
negotiates over the fence. The bottle-oh has put
it to his boss, the Croesus who receives the product
of his suburban perambulations, that he can’t keep
up appearances on 3Us. a week any longer, and in
fact lie won’t try. The Superior Bottle Person is
firm. Now the world’s visible bottle supply is
limited, and the beer industry won’t be able to
carry on long unless the bottles come back soon to
be washed and used again. Sydney will yet have
to go for its beer with a jug or to drink out of its
hat.
The travelling Australian has few compli-
ments to waste on Melbourne. The State
Tourists’ Bureau in that city invites visitors’
criticisms and records them m a
book, as a corrective to conceit.
Mostly they are dour and un-
gracious, and the general opinion
of the tramway system ought to
upset the company’s digestion.
Maorilanders are least uncompli-
mentary, one admitting he had had
“a ripping time,” while another
wrote that the streets were wide
and cleanly and the gardens very
lovely. A Tasmanian considered
the place “a fine city for a sporty
life, ” which opinion will grieve the
soulsof Judkins and Woodfull. A
Queenslander reckoned Smell-
bourne “quiet, but slow,” while
a Ala-Stater grudgingly admitted
the place was “ better than he
expected, and the Yarra not half
so muddy as he had been told.”
But the most caustic criticism
came from a lady, whose place of
abode was obvious. She cursorily
wrote the dictum, “Behind Adelaide.” After
that the patient official closed the book and went
outside and wept bitterly into the dog-kennel.
Sydney Telegraph tootled more unwisely
than usual vvnen the cable told of the frig money
that bruisers Johnson and Jeffries are likely to
make by the forthcoming fight. “The Greek
boxers,” said the ill-regulated paper, “who
fought each other at the great national games for
a wreath of parsley or wild olive surely showed
a nobler spirit than their modern suc-
cessors.” But the parsley and wild olive
carried at that time material advantages.
The winner became a sort of deadhead in his
native city for the rest of his life, and got free
tram-rides or whatever was the equivalent in
those days, and all the other privileges that were
going. And as to the “nobler spirit” of the
Peter Jackson of 25 centuries ago, isn’t there a
hunk of statuary showing the Greek boxer who
“drove his right hand through the ribs of his
opponent, clutched the heart and, dragging it from
the body, tossed it into the air.” Any boxer
who did that nowadays would be disqualified on
a foul. The trouble is simply that the Telegraph,
like many another institution, believes that the
other fellow should be an amateur, and should
scorn sordid cash. Yet it doesn’t turn amateur
itself and emulate the nobler spirit of certain
epistle writers of 1800 or 1900 years ago, who stuck
more closely to facts, didn’t charge for their
epistles, and scorned to disfigure them with pill
advertisements. Even the oracles of Delphi and
Dodona, though they took money as the Tele-
graph does for foretelling the course of politics,
declined flatly to sell ad vertising space on their
premises to drapers and cheap-hat men.
Jusfc possible that in the near future
Sydney may see something like a revo-
lution in its drink methods. Mr. Public-
House complains that under existing con-
ditions he cannot 'trace his losses. He
rather suspects that they are located among
the bottles of higher-class whisky and the
good brandies; but he isn’t sure. In the
private bar Gussie ’calls for b. and s., and
the bottle is passed along for him to help
himself. He does it lavishly; and the
same with the dearer brands of whisky.
But for the profit made on the beer in
the public bar Mr. Public-House reckons
that lie would pass out. So the Licensed
Victuallers are considering the adoption
of the London method. In the world
city, it seems, no one helps himself. Cer-
tain drinks are 2d. even in the lounge
bars, some are 4d., and others are fid., 9d.
and Is. The man who takes water with
his whisky pays fourpence ; the sybarite
who dilutes it with soda parts sixpence.
If he calls for liqueur whisky or any
extra special brand, he pays accord-
ingly ; and, in every case, the minion
behind the pump measures out the
dose. If the suggested revolution
comes off it will be a fine thing for
the man who drinks beer, and a
reasonably good thing for the
fellow who always takes water
with it ; but the man of taste
and refined palate is going to be
ruined.
From the Old Soldier :
“ S.R." (B. 28/10,’00) discourses on guns, and especially
on Bisley’s opinion of the British army rifle. If Bisley
has only just formed this opinion it lias taken a long-
time to find out what all the armies in Kurope have been
laughing at for the last year or two ; and the folly of the
thing- has also been exposed in every military publication
in France, Germany, Austria and Italy. More than seven
months ago Tub Bullktin (18/3/’O9) gave the muzzle velo-
cities of tne British and some other army rifles, and the
weights of their bullets, an.l it explained how these
things accounted for the difference in the effective ranges
of the weapons and the relative accuracy of the shooting.
The high-velocity rifle is superior at all ranges ; but the
stupid British War Office has a theory that the average
infantryman is not to be depended on at long ranges, so
it has shortened his rifle, while the benighted foreigner
reduces the weight of the bullet, making both the ammu-
nition and the rifle-barrel lighter without shortening it.
“ S.R.” is a bit late for the fair when he objects to the
standardisation of weapons and everything else belonging
to the alleged Australian forces. The idiotic thing’has
been agreed to by the head of every Australian Govern-
ment —Barton, Reid, Watson, Deakin, Fisher, and now
Beak in again. Not that any of them had the least idea
what it meant. It was only something large and vague,
and good enough to conjure with. None of them really
understand it; and what is of much more consequence,
they will not try to learn what it means till thev have the
reality hammered into their heads with the butt of an
invader’s rifle.
TOLD IN THE SMOKE-IIOOM.
First Artist: “Does your friend Dauber paint
at all now ? And is he still fond of brilliant
color ? ”
Second Artist: “Oh, yes! Only last week he
painted the town redd’
Two Mornington (Vic.) fishermen sent 87
baskets of rock cod andflathead— about one ton—lo
the Melbourne market on Cup morning. Their
net returns were !)d. per basket. The same
market saw 81 baskets of salmon trout forwarded
by a Frankston fisher. The market report said
salmon trout brought from ss. to 12s. per basket,
yet the fisherman only received Is. 4Jkl. Another
“primary producer” sent 4001 b. of yellow-tail,
which the market report quoted as worth Is. per
lb.—£2o the lot. His cheque was £4 7s. No, the
fisherman didn’t back Alawa or Trafalgar to any
extent: it was the fish agent who spread himself
over the lawn and grandstand, and planked his
tenner on the bob-tailed, nag. By the way, how
would it do for Commissioner O’Callaghan to send
a few of his men to toil in the fish-market for a
while? They would learn of more surprising steals
there than down the half-ounce gold mines where
one of them was recently discovered.
THE BULL’S TRAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The country trains arriving- in Melbourne on Friday
nights are called the Bull trains, as hundreds of com-
mercials travel home for the week end.
It comes in every Friday night
From Nhill and Bendigo ;
From Sale and Whroo and Ballarat,
From Natimuk also ;
From Warragul and Ararat,
And from the Murray plain ;
When thin commercials —bagmen fat—
All come to town again
By the Bull train,
By the full train
That brines the bagman to his week-end rest.
For trade five days forbids,
But the missus and the kids
See the bagman once a week, and at liis best.
On Monday morn the daylight train
Takes him to Portland Bay ;
He sells tinned fish and calico
For five days all the day.
A buccaneer of twenty trunks
Carried through heat and rain ;
But, after all the sales and drunks,
He comes to town again
By the Bull train ;
By the full train
The knight of trade and samples journeys down
To take a Hebrew’s rest
With the people he loves best;
For Saturdays and Sundays he’s in town.
He tells blue yarns till Sunbury,
Then yarns and cards forgets;
For home’s a clamant creditor,
And will forgive no debts.
The ribaldry of all the week,
The meanness of the sales
Are gone—a color’s in his cheek
That is not all from ales.
By the Bull train ;
By the full train
The pirate of tinned fish and calico,
Slips off the trader’s coat,
And clears his eye and throat;
For clean until next Monday he shall go.
For this is man’s good fortune ;
The world may dirty him,
The tricks of trade defile his youth,
His youth’s clean honor dim ;
But when his critics sit at home—
The children and the wife
He’ll do just as they do at Rome,
And lead his other life.
And the Bull train,
And the full train
Bring him from the life of traders and of men ;
And his outer covering slips,
Ere he kisses on the lips
The girl for whom next week he’ll fall again.
You may not joke at Dandenong,
At Deer Park play the fool ;
The yarn that’s wrong- at .Spencer-street
Was right at Warrnambool.
The tale we told at Servieeton,
Forget, ere we come down ;
For, 10, I have a little son
Who waits at WiUiamstown
For the Bull train,
For the full train.
Forget the weekly trading froth and foam;
And the trader’s mantle slips
Ere he kisses on the lips
The kids, who keep life sweet and clean at home.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” OAS ENGINE and PLANT STS!
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
"NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by —
Arthur Leplastrier & C 0. v Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent, stock of Large Boilers for
all Mining Purposes, for working pressures of
1201 b. and 1501 b. per square inch, by Huston
Proctor, Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
CAMEL HAIR'
BELTING
l ’ ,U -ItHE 0 ™ 111 1
BELTING.
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Mining purposes. Sole AGENTS,
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT & BENDICO
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Money continues plentiful in Australia, and but
for the trouble in the coal trade the outlook all round
would be good. Except, that is, for the Treasurer or
other person who wants to borrow from England or other
f ireign parts. The bank rate in London keeps up to an
abnormal 5 per cent., and short loans have been bringing
4£ and 4| per cent. Australian banks, some of which
h we lately been extraordinarily strong in liquid assets,
will thus be able to reap another nice little harvest by
lending to father Bull-Cohen on short call. But
in the long run father Bull-Cohen will get even with
us. Meanwhile, however, the underwriters of some
recent N.S.W. and other Australian loans will have
a bad time. Three months ago they could get
short-loan money for financing their underwritings at
1 or 1£ per cent. It looked then as though they wouldn’t
be disturbed for a couple of years at least; cheap money,
nearly everybody said, was assured for a long while to
come. Now, however, if they have to pay 4£ per cent,
to hold stocks that only bring in 3| per cent, or less, they
will be in trouble ; and the net results will be—first, a big
lot of undigested Australian stock thrown on the market
at sacrifice prices ; and second, less satisfactory terms for
underwriting in tbe future—and that is one way in which
father Bull-Cohen will get even.
In Australia the Commonwealth revenue keeps
up well, and for the first three months of the financial
year, in spite of increasing Federal expenditure, the
States got back £25,320 more than they did in July-Sept.,
1908. N. S. Wales and Queensland, even allowing for
under-payments pending the adjustmentof accounts, get
less, though, than they did last year; and this explains
the poor showing made by those two States in the follow-
ing two comparisons—
State Revenue Returns for October.
1908. 1909.
N. S. Wales .. £1,199,151 £1,229,449 Inc. £39,298
Victoria .. 634,331 676,563 Inc. 42,232
Queensland .. 355,425 330,378 Dec. 25,047
Westralia .. 230,745 240,006 Inc. 9,261
Tasmania .. 95,822 77,425 Dec. 18,397
State Revenues for Year so far.
1908. 1909.
N. S. Wales (4 mos.).. £4,331,835 £4,352,901 Inc. £21,066
Victoria „ .. 2,415,593 2,507,524 Inc. 91,931
Queensland „ .. 1,614,797 1,608,791 Dec. 6,006
Westralia „ .. 932,402 984,218 Inc. 51,816
Tasmania „ .. 290,485 273,635 Dec. 16,850
S. Australia (3 mos.).. 773,369 778,790 Inc. 5,421
Tasmania is in a bad way, and its Parliament isn’t pre-
pared to make an effort to square things, either. The
heavy decrease in the State’s income for October is, how-
ever, due to the deferred payment of land-tax. In Oct.,
1908, £27,708 was received from this source ; in Oct.,
1909, only £2O. Fortunately the Commonwealth has
helped Tassy through by considerable over-payments on
account of Customs refunds, or the Speck’s figures would
look even worse than they do in the foregoing.
As usual there isn’t much to say under the next
head: —
State Expenditure for Year so far.
July-Oct.,’oB. July-0ct.,’09.
N. S. Wales .. £4,866,688 £4,891,973 Inc. £25,285
Queensland .. 1,016,980 1,051,511 Inc. 34,531
Westralia .. 1,072,869 1,053,831 Dec. 19,038
The other States supply no expenditure figures at all.
Westralian figures look big by comparison with Queens-
land’s ; but that is explained by the fact that Westralia
and all the other States except Queensland debit them-
selves with their interest charges every month. Queens-
land only does it every half-year. Assuming that Westralia
isn’t charging up to loans more things than usual that
ought to be charged against revenue, that State is doing
considerably better. This year, so far, its revenue is
£69,613 short of expenditure; which is bad. But last
year, in the same four months, it was £140,467 short,
which was much worse.
For the four months N.S.W. has spent £585,196
< f borrowed money, as against £647,313 last year. Some
big works have, however, been lately put in hand or
authorised; so the expenditure is likely to move along
rapidly. Moreover, large sums have been spent lately out
of the largely spurious Public Works Fund : over £360,000
has been charged up to that account in the four months.
A good deal of that £360,000 ought to have been spent
last year; but, if it had been, the Wade-Waddell Govern-
ment couldn’t have manufactured a surplus out of it. So
the Government hangs up repairs, etc., makes a “sur-
plus ” out of what it thus “ saves,” passes the surplus on
to the Works Fund, which does the repairs, etc., and thus
the Government takes credit for being strong in its
finance. And this is the bluff on which Reform is built.
The Treasury returns indicate the great revolu-
tion that is taking place in Queensland’s financial
methods. A few years ago northern finance was run on
most creditably economical and c.o.d. principles. To-day
that State is off on the road to Boom-de-ay as hard as it
can go. October returns show a lift in loan expenditure
for a period of four months from £283,655 in 1908 to
£469,181 in 1909—a rise of some 65 per cent. For a
period of four years the Morgan Kidston Government
spent at the rate of only half a million per annum. To-day
the rate of loan expenditure is nearly 1.) million per
annum. And the end is not yet. The Courier and Philp
are bent on a boom policy, to include a transcontinental
connection of the termini of the three main lines. Mean-
time ever nearer draws the year 1915, by which date the
State will have had to argue with some 14J millions of old
debt, of which nearly 12 millions will have to be pro-
vided for in one year.
The Maoriland State Land Bank, whose
deficit to begin with was due to preliminary expenses and
loss on loan flotations :
Loss on Loan
March, Profits. Flotations. Deficit.
1900 .. £14,073 £28,142 £107,644
1901 .. 20,325 9,889 97,208
1902 .. 29,452 67,756
1903 .. 24,907 43,953 86,802
1904 .. 26,561 20,585 80,826
1905 .. 34,454 46,372
1906 .. 34,048 12,324
Reserves.
1907 .. 44,972 32,648
1908 .. 48,449 81,097 •
Premiums Received.
1909 .. 60,822 3,014 144,933
The private Cohen of the great I O U country hasn’t
lately been as polite to the man on the land, or to the
man who wanted to go on the land, as he was two or
three years ago ; and so the man on the land, and the
other man who wanted to go on the land, have been very
glad to turn to the public Cohen, represented by this
State bank. Consequently the State bank’s business con-
stitutes a record, and the advances outstanding exceed
five millions for the first time. In the foregoing table it
will be seen chat some premiums have been received
during the year. Originally the capital was raised by
issuing 3 per cent, loans redeemable in 1945 ; and for
these, of course, on account of the low interest, some-
thing less than 20s. in the £ had to be accepted.
In all £2,000,000 has been raised in that way ; and a fur-
ther £2,223,800 has been raised by something vaguely
described as “ Sundry loans,” and another £935,000 by
“ Advances on account of loans.” Evidently some deben-
tures have been sold during the past year carrying
interest at so high a rate that they brought a premium.
That premium is passed into the profit and loss account
and is presented as profit. This is a very doubtful pro-
ceeding, inasmuch as this profit is only secured at the
expense of a subsequent high rate of interest. In other
words, this year’s profit is swollen at the expense of the
profit in years to come.
The reserves total £144,933. But, besides those
reserves, discounts totalling £208,466 have been provided
for, making a total net profit to date of £353,399. The
discounts having thus been provided for, the bank will
have the full advantage of the low interest payable on the
loans; and the growth of the reserves should, conse-
quently, be rapid—provided, of course, nothing goes very
wrong with the securities. There were none of these on
hand at March 31, although a few had fallen in
and been realised; and for the first time in the
bank’s history of 15 years, a loss was last year
made on one of them, though the total was under
£lOO. Still even that incident suggests possibilities
and gives a broad hint to the management to stall off
demands for concessions and go on accumulating re-
serves. At present the reserves don’t amount to 3 per
cent, of the advances ; and that is a long way from being
enough. Further, presumably many of the “ sundry
loans,” etc., are short-dated ; and the department ought
to be in a position to pay off any lot that may fall due at
a moment when Cohen isn’t inclined to renew on satis-
factory terms.
The next table shows the growth of advances,
along with management expenses, etc. :
■ \ Expenses
p.c. of
Advances Cost of Mortgages.
Outstanding. Management. s. d.
1900 .. £1,747,329 £7,267 8 4
1901 .. 2,131,100 6,869 6 5
1902 .. 2,368,317 7,696 6 5
1903 .. 2,590,543 7,316 5 8
1904 .. 2,795,849 7,439 5 4
1905 .. 2,753,182 6,834 4 11
1906 .. 3,125,069 7,989 5 1
1907 .. 3,551,876 8,453 4 ’ 9
1908 .. 4,180,616 12,792 6 1
1909 .. 5,114,300 15,759 6 2
The office is, however, doing more for the borrowers than
it used to. During the last couple of years, for instance,
mortgages have been completed at a cost of ss. each,
including disbursements; and you can’t get it down
much finer than that. A change, by the way, has been
made in the form of the published management expenses
account; the fees charged by the Valuation Department
have not been included. For the sake of uniformity,
however, these have been added in the figures printed
above. As a matter of fact, though, the bulk of these
fees are charged specially, and don’t come out of general
revenue.
* * * •
Maoriland State Bank Advances to
Workers Department
Advances
Mar., Outstanding. Loss. Deficit.
1907 .. .. £5,490 £434 £434
1908 .. .. 203,143 228 662
Profit. Reserves.
1909 .. .. 482,436 3757 3095
The Government Advances to Workers’ Act was passed
in Oct., 1906, and applications for loans under it were
first considered in January, 1907- The object of the Act,
which is administered by the Advances to Settlers office,
is to enable workers to secure homes of their own. The
interest charged is 5 p.c., which is reducible to 4£ p.c.
under certain circumstances ; and no fee is charged for
preparing a mortgage. The Maoriland borrowing boom
had the usual effect; it gave land and house property a
fictitious value, and consequently puffed up rental values
outrageously. There was naturally, therefore, a con--
siderable rush to this office ; and by the end of what is
practically the second year advances amounting to
£603,800 had been authorised ; but £32,590 of this had
been declined by the applicants—the amounts offered, or
the terms, or something, didn’t suit them, or the girl had
thought better of it and wouldn’t get married after all.
The department is financed by debentures floated by
the Government. As at March 31, £473,500 had been
raised ; of this total £145,000 was provided by’ the
Advances to Settlers Department, which has temporarily
invested some of its reserves and sinking fund in this
newer business. The expenses are very small; many of
them are shared by the older department or branch,
which, in fuct, provides at present the necessary labor
for £5OO a year. On the average of the advances out-
standing during the year the total management expenses
were 3s. 6d. per cent. It is very probable that this will
be increased. Later on, there will inevitably be fore-
closures, and the handling of foreclosed properties
will mean extra cost. Considering the risks, the
year’s profits were not, under the circumstances,
a penny too much ; and this experiment in the
riskier half of a building society business will
have to be watched with a good deal of anxiety until a
very much stronger reserve fund is built up.
* * * *
The Agricultural Bank of Queensland
Loss Net Profit
Before Available
Paying Interest Paid for
June, Interest. to State. Reserves. Deficit.
1903 .. £289 3 p.c. = £47 £336
Profit.
1904 .. 501 3 „ „ 417 £B4 252
1905 .. 826 3 „ ~ 773 53 199
Reserves.
1906 .. 2476 3 „ ~2031 445 246
1907 .. 4212 3 „ ~3161 1051 1297
1908 .. 4771 3 „ ~3445 1326 2623
1909 .. 5257 3 „ ~3851 1406 4029
This State land bank makes very little progress, and it
never will make much until the present hampering legis-
lation is amended. Instead of getting a good man or two,
and trusting them to run the bank within certain broad
boundaries, Parliament hampers the management with
details of what may’ be done, and what may not be
done ; and the things that may’ not be done are more
numerous than the other things. Even to pay off
a private Cohen the bank may only lend up to 10s.
in the £ of the value of the outfit, and the total
mustn’t be more than £BOO. The things for which
the bank may lend are also set out; wherefore, if a bor-
rower wants a trifle for something that Parliament didn’t
think of at the moment, he can’t get it; and usually that
means that .he takes the whole business to some other
bank which hasn’t got such a tangle of red tape around
its money-box. So this list shows the poor progress that
has been made, in spite of the big increase of settlement
in Queensland ; incidentally’ it shows one or two other
things:—
Advances
Advances Repaid Expenses
Out- during Working p.c. of
standing. Year. Expenses. Advances
1903 .. £6,253 £557 £8 18 2
1904 .. 20,370 £650 550 2 14 0
1905 .. 38,417 311 687 1 15 9
1906 .. 94,268 3,229 1043 1 2 0
1907 .. 112,216 12,908 1243 1 2 2
1908 .. 119,344 16,716 1199 1 0 1
1909 .. 136,947 16,184 1388 1 0 3
Expenses are high, as they necessarily must be on such a
small business; in the Maoriland Advances to Settlers
department the.v are down to about 6s. p.c., notwithstand-
ing that that office does a good deal more for the money.
In fact, on account of the bigh expense rate, the profit
wouldn’t be anything like the amount shown above if the
State didn’t let the bank have what money it wants for
3 per cent., which is a good deal less than the State has
to pay for its own loans. The whole business wants over-
hauling. The State gains nothing, but loses a good deal,
by putting the bank in hobbles. For the bank can’t go
ahead, wherefore it can’t afford to pay the State a fair
amount for the money it advances. Further, instead of
saving the bank from losses, it simply drives most
of the best and safest business away to private
concerns, and leaves this one with the culls.
The report for the past year mentions that 11 properties
had fallen into the bank’s hands ; in the previous year 10
fell in ; in the years before that a total of 10 had fallen in.
It isn’t a satisfactory record ; there is obviously some-
thing wrong. If Queensland wants to keep its State land
bank a cripple, well and good ; if it doesn’t, the sooner it
overhauls the department and the law on which it rests,
the better.
* * * *
The Bank of Australasia :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Oct., 1902.. 136,943 llp.c.= 88,000 14,000 1,084,648
Apl., 1903.. 157,705 12 „ „ 96,000 30,000 1,116,353
Oct., 1903..151,598 12 ~ ~ 96.000 25,000 1,146,951
Apl., 1904.. 150,934 12 „ ~ 96,000 25,000 1,176,885
Oct., 1904.. 140,066 12 „ „ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
Apl., 1905.. 136,153 12 ~ ~ 96,000 10,000 1,237,104
Oct., 1905.. 137,451 12 „ „ 96,000 11,000 1,267,555
Apl., 1906.. 137,795 12 „ „ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Oct., 1906..153,512 14 ~ ~112,000 12,000 1,326,862
Apl., 1907..227,463 14 „ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,427,325
Oct., 1907.. 188,750 14 „ ~112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Apl., 1908..212,029 14 „ ~112,000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct., 1908..187,691 14 ~ ~112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl., 1909..174, Lli 14 ~ ~112,000 12,000 1,676,906
This great concern has now a formal reserve fund larger
than its capital, and more than half of that fund has been
piled up during the last 10 years. Consider the move-
ment
April, 1899. April, 1909.
Formal Reserve Fund.. ..£BOO,OOO £1,660,000
Unappropriated Profit .. 10,282 16,906
Premises Account .. .. 466,556 180,378
The premises account is added to the comparison, because
it is partly through this account that an internal reserve
is built up. Assuming that the bank has only the same
premises that it had 10 years ago, the comparison means
that it not only has those premises, but £286,178 besides
—the difference between the figures at the two dates.
But as the bank has been steadily opening new branches
and building new premises for old branches, and as some
of these premises are revenue-producers, the real gain
has been much more than £286,178 ; and that is apart
altogether from the gain in formal or visible reserves.
How strong the position is from the dividend-earning
point of view can be judged from this: Supposing the
bank has only £400,000 of internal reserves, and suppos-
ing on these and its capital and visible reserves it only
made 6 per cent, profit, that profit would still be suffi-
cient to pay the present dividend of 14 per cent, on capi-
tal. Yet, besides its own capital and reserves, it has
no less than £15,905,865 of the public’s money at its
command ; and if it only averaged j per cent, on that, it
would mean £94,529 profit a year. There is no doubt
about it —in banking nothing succeeds like success and
the reputation for success.
Of course, there are risks in the business. Of
that £18,905,865 of the public’s money, the ’Asia has lent
out about £11,750,000, besides its own funds ; and it must
make some losses on those loans, and those losses it, and
not the depositors, must stand. The bigger the propor-
tion of the public’s money in a business, the bigger there-
fore the risks of the shareholders. The ’Asia’s proportion
—under £6 to £l—is, however, not so great as that of
some other banks. Its liquid assets are, moreover,
reasonably strong compared with its liabilities ; and in
that respect, the position is even stronger than it was 12
months ago. This shows some details :
April, 1908. April, 1909.
Notes .. .. £533,557 £552,741 Inc. £19,184
Bills, etc. .. 2,975,499 2,173,217 Dec. 802,282
Deposits .. 15,664,837 16,179,907 Inc. 515,070
Liquid assets .. 5,948,268 7,105,402 Inc. 1,157,134-
Advances .. 16,283,507 15,008,992 Dec. 1,274,515
Premises .. 220,222 180,378 Dec. 39,844
So, while the public money in the business has decreased
a trifle, liquid assets have been considerably strengthened
by the falling in or else the calling in of advances ; either
its customers didn’t want the money or the bank looked
at present prices of securities and reckoned that, for a
while, the money would be safer in its own big pocket.
And that’s where, nowadays, this and one or two other
banks have such a pull : their normal profits are so much
in excess of their dividend that they can afford to go
slow and lock up very large sums until the atmosphere
clears a bit and the future is more certain.
As - mentioned above, reserves, or accumulated
profits, are now greater than capital ; therefore less than
7 per cent, earned on capital and reserves combined will
pay the 14 per cent, dividend. The following shows the
earnings on that basis, and it will be seen how much there
is left over to lay by :
Oct,, 1905 .. £9 13 9 p.c. Oct., 1907 ..£l2 9 5 p.c.
Apl., 1906.. 9 12 3 „ Apl., 1908.. 13 4 10 „
Oct., 1906.. 10 11 11 ~ Oct., 1908.. 11 16 9 „
Apl., 1907.. 15 10 10 „ Apl., 1909.. 10 15 10 „
The present dividend (14 per cent.) is the same as was
paid 20 years ago ; the bank only once ventured beyond
that, and then only to 15 per cent., in the big boom
years. When the smash came it never got below 5 per
cent., and didn’t let one term slide without a dividend.
In fact, in all its long life of 74 years it has only once
“ passed ” a div., and that was in 1849, when it tried to
prop up the tottering Bank of Australia by “ lending” it
£150,000.
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building Society
(Sydney);—
Depre-
ciation
Profit Divi- Writ- Nomi-
Business on dend ten nal Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. (5 p.c.). off. serves.
1899.. £2617 £2600 £279
1900.. 2985 3000 264
1901.. 2473 2500 237
1902 3544 3500 281
1903.. 3341 3500 122
1904.. 3496 3500 118
1905.. 3601 3500 219
1906.. 3575 3500 294
Assets written up £28,588, which amount
was transferred to capital.
1907.. 3978 4000 272
19US 4438 £6654 £2809 8,555
1909.. 5071 1420 2858 12,188
This society is having its second time on earth ; but it is
finding that the second time isn’t quite like the first time.
The first time it could lend money wholesale ; everybody,
it seemed, was buying lancj, and everybody was borrow-
ing. Under such conditions prices, of course, became
fictitious; and when thb s’lenders 5 ’ lenders wanted their money
back and the smash came, this society found that it had
lent out about £330,000 of borrowed money besides its
own ; and the properties it had lent the money on
wouldn’t bring any tiling like 20s. in the£. The capital of
St. Joseph’s at the time was in £lO shares. At two
strokes it cut off £7 of that, and wrote t e shares
down to £3; and its depositors accepted 3 per cent,
interest. Also strict economy was practised. So the
society, which had filled up Some of the gap between the
book value and the real value of its securities by writing
off capital, filled up more of the gap by paying out but
little for either interest or expenses, and by paying no
dividends. Moreover Federation, Protection and good
seasons steadily improved Sydney property values, and so
likewise reduced the gap. Consequently when, a couple
of years ago, St. Joseph overhauled its assets again, it
found that the gap was more than filled up—that the
properties were now worth more than they had been
steadily written down to. So £3 of the written-off
capital was restored and the £3 shares were made £6
shares. The capital now stands at £57,176 ; and fixed
deposits, which represent practically all the liability,
total £66,188. On the other side, the chief asset consists
of advances, properties in possession, etc., £111,269.
These items should not be lumped together in this way.
The management, which in many respects is extremely
frank, ought to say how much represents foreclosed pro-
perties and how much represents new advances. Evi-
dently new’ advances are not easy to get—of the sort,
anyway, that satisfies the management. The directors are
s hy—they have not forgotten the old bite. Consequently,
besides a handy cash balance, the society has £15,644 in
Government stock, which it probably wouldn’t have if it
could get hold of a few comfortable mortgages at 6 per
cent, or so. Things, however, as remarked before, are
not what they were for the building society. Hanks,
which ought to be helping-manufactures and commerce
more, are competing with insurance: offices, etc., lor
mortgages, which isn’t really banking business , trustees
are putting money into “ Why pay rent. e s tate ® > ar \ d
many of the class of people who used to go to the old-
style building society go now to the atarr-BowKetc
societies. So, however well it may do as a property-
owning concern, the real building-society future of such
societies as the St. Joseph’s isn’t particularly brilliant.
* * *
The City of Brisbane Building Society :
Dividends and Carried to
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit
1899 .. £6O 5 per cent. = £36 *** £lB
1900 .. 123 5 ~ „ 108 15 3
Reserves
1901 .. 188 5 „ 167 21 18
1902 ..206 5 „ „ 7 f
1903 ..275 5 „ „ 200 20 45
1904 .. 260 5 „ 241 19 64
1905 .. 240 5 „ „ 242 6Z
1906 .. 242 5 „ „ 239 3 65
1907 .. 290 5 „ „ 261 29 94
1908 ..314 5 „ „ 296 IS 112
1909 .. 360 5 „ „ 332 28 140
This little society doesn’t make furious progress; but,
like Agag, it appears to be stepping daintily, and break-
ing no eggs under its hoofs. It has no properties on its
hands, and none have so far come that way, which is one
sign of careful management. Further, it is trading on
its own money exclusively. That means limited profits,
of course ; but it means limited risks also, inasmuch as
the society isn’t backing anybody else’s bill. The total
amount advanced is £7553, an increase of about £lOOO
during the year, which £lOOO has all been supplied by
investing shareholders. In fact, capital has come in
faster than the society has been able to let it out a fairly
common experience with building societies in these days.
The Illawarra and South Coast Steam
Navigation Co. (N.S.W. ) :
Net To R(? - Re '
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1903.. £3060 8} p.c. = £2490 £570 £26,991
Sept., 1903.. 2319 Si „ „ 2490 26,820
Mar., 1904.. 2692 s* „ „ 2490 202 27,022
Sept., 1904.. 2192 „ „ 2490 26,724
Profit made on sale of wharf .. 47,/75
Assets written down, £15,377 . ; ■ 3 ~’ 3 ??
£24,898 of reserves transferred to capital 7,500
Mar., 1905.. 3562 7 p.c. = 2614 948 8,448
Sept., 1905.. 2086 7 „ „ 2614 7,920
Mar., 1906.. 3062 7 ~ „ 2614 448 B,obB
Sept., 1906.. 3079 7 „ „ 2625 454 8,822
Mar., 1907.. 3348 7 „ ~ 2625 723 9,545
Sept., 1907.. 2628 7 ~ ~ 2625 3 9,548
Mar., 1908.. 2466 7 „ ~ 2625 9,389
Loss.
Sept., 1908.. 1507 Mil 7,882
Profit.
Mar., 1909.. 3456 7 p.c. = 2625 831 8,713
Sept., 1909.. 2335 7 „ „ 2625 8,423
This co. has been having a bad time. As the N.S.W.
North Coast came into favor the South Coast fell back;
it had the big landlord to a great extent, and it didn’t
have the big rainfall to make up for the incubus. It
didn’t attract new blood ; and the old blood was torpid.
This co. drowsed with the district, and while other lilies
bustled along and greatly improved their steamship
service, this one did very little, and took a long while over
it. In 1904 it transferred to capital the profit which it had
made by selling its wharf to the Government. Since then
with one break it has paid 7 per cent, on the increased
capital; but to do that it has had to snip a trifle off its
reserves. With a shipping co. very much depends on the
amount of revenue written off against depreciation. By
writing off too little, profits can be bloated for a time ;
eventually, however, the co. in that case finds itself with
worn-out ships which have to be written off in a lump.
On the other hand, it may for some reason make its pro-
fits look poorer than they really are by writing off too
much or by paying for new ships out of undisclosed pro-
fits, which amounts to the same thing. Only now and
then can it be told for certain what a co. is doing ; all
one can do is to consider its history. In this case here
are some details: —
Sept., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1900. 1908. 1909. 1909.
Capital .. .. £58,096 £75,000 £75,000 £75,000
Liabilities.. .. 4,794 1,654 6,380 7, u>B
Ship Property .. 66,409 66,175 83,305 83,* .5
Freehold, etc. .. 17,846 900 920 9io
Gash .. .. 212 10,386 1,962 2,422
Other assets .. 6,277 7,450 7,531 7,788
The increase of capital has been explained—it is mostly
profit made out of freeholds. At the same time (1904-5}
ship property was written down severely. Eighteen
months ago the fleet got into such low water that it was
decided to strengthen it, using the proceeds of the
land sales. Six months ago old ship property
stood at £55,207. Now it stands at £53,827.
That looks as though £l3BO has been written
off out of profits during the half-year, plus anything that
may have been spent on repairs and additions. The new
steamer (built in Europe ; the co. hasn't woke up yet to
the fact that Australia can build ships) is finished; it
stands in the books at £29,248. This has been practically
paid for without going into debt; for book debts and a
few sundries exceed the total liabilities. The co. has
never done anything brilliant, and doesn’t look as though
it is likely to ; but it has got a hold on the trade, and
will no doubt be able to hang on to it in a slow, dogged
way.
* * * *
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and Co.,
druggists, etc. (Sydney)
Nominal
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1904.. 10 per cent. = £6OOO £1,912
Feb., 1905.. £6,143 10 „ ~ 6000 £143 2,055
Aug., 1905.. 5,959 10 ~ ~ 6000 2,014
Feb., 1906.. 7,124 10 „ ~ 60u0 1124 3,138
Aug., 1906.. 6,338 10 „ 6000 338 3,476
Feb., 1907.. 6,390 10 „ ~ 6000 390 3,866
Aug., 1907.. 6,730 10 „ „ 6000 730 4,596
Feb., 1908.. 6,198 10 „ ~ 60.0 198 4,794
Aug., 1908.. 8,232 10 „ „ 6000 2232 7,026
Feb., 1909.. 10,780 15 „ „ 9000 1780 8,806
Aug., 1909.. 11,214 15 „ „ 9000 2214 11,020
This co., which on the surface looks remarkably pros-
perous, may be doing even better than it looks. In
August, 1904—five years ago—when it was two years old,
the balance-sheet contained this item : “ Stocks on hand,
plant and fixtures, patent rights, etc., £98,177.” Since
then the directors fiave mentioned every half-year that
they have provided for depreciation and the writing
down of patent rights, etc., and the total of the item is
now j. 83,013, a reduction of £15,164 in five years. But
stocks, plant and fixtures may have been reduced
meantime, or they may have been increased. If they
have been increased, then more than £15,164
has obviously been written off out of profits.
And comparing disclosed profits now with what
they were five years or so back the chances are that
stock, plant, fixtures, etc., have been increased to meet a
growing business. There is another way of looking at the
matter. Five years ago the co. owed £18,716. All that
it now owes is £5365 ; and meantime it has increased its
liquid assets by £2774, its freehold premises by £7550,
and its holding in another co. by £3596. So it has re-
duced its liabilities by £13,351 while it has increased the
assets mentioned by £13,920. And meantime it has paid
the thumping dividends shown above —dividends which,
by the way, have had a good deal of effect in Sydney
in popularising investments in industrial concerns.
Still, while the post mortem so far is grateful and com-
forting, there is a good deal of it that has to be done in
the dark. For instance, though it is pretty certain that
something large is being written off stocks, patent
rights, etc., no information is available as to what
“patent rights, etc.,” amount to. Patent rights don’t
last many years, and some of them may be nearing their
last moments, so that the amounts written off may be
none too much ; also when they do run out the profits
may be affected. There is this uncertainty about the
business. Still it doesn’t seem large enough to justify
the shareholders in feeling uncomfortable.


Will You Try
No use thinking that because cast-
iron pipes have been used for
many years there cannot be any-
thing better.
MANNESMANN
Weldless Steel Pipes
are “Dreadnoughts” in the way
of pipes, for they have the ad-
vantage on all points, and can
PROVE THEIR SUPERIORITY.
Take the trouble to inquire; then
you will see that in any: place
where pipes are needed, Mannes-
mann are what you want.
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD.,
109 PITT STREET. Sole Agents.
Conveying Apparatus
for handling
COAL ORE, WHEAL
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Robins Conveying Belt Co*
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Australian Bank of Commerce is to nail up
its sign on January 1 ; till then the old A. J. S. Bank will
carry’on business as usual. The job of transferring the
securities has been a slow and tedious otic, but that and
all the rest of the things in connection with the passing
over of the business are reported to be getting on nicely.
The old deposits are to be exchanged for the following •
2s. 6d. in the £ cash within two years (carrying 3 per
cent, meantime); 10s. in extended 4 percent, deposits,
repayable by’ drawings ; ss. in shares in the new Bank.
The other 2s. 6d. is to be written off. As many trustees
are debarred from holding qliares, they (lave had to put
their deposits on the market, which accounts for the
size of the recent transactions in old receipts. In their
original draft scheme the directors tried to dodge this
difficulty by providing that trustees might take extended
deposits instead of shares ; but the depositors’ committees
ruled that out on the ground that it was impossible to
say what receipts were held in trust, and what were held
otherwise. The effect has no doubt been to keep deposit
receipts at a lower price for the time being than they are
really’ w’orth, assuming that the new bank will have
reasonably good management.
One big co. to take over a number of the chief
jam-making concerns of the Commonwealth has been
mentioned in some of the papers. The concerns affected
appear to be H. Jones & Co., of Tasmania ; the Australian
Jam Co. and Hoadley & Co., of Melbourne ; and the Pea-
cock Co., of Sydney’. As a matter of fact, all these except
Hoadleys have been in practically the one lot of hands
for some years ; but they have been under independent
local control, and the absence of uniform trade brands,
etc., has stood in the way of so big a foreign trade as they
reckon that Australia ought to do, and as it will be
necessary for it to do in view of the rapidly-increasing
fruit, crop. The capital of the new co. is somewhere
about £400,000 or £500,000.
* * * •
“Chinese in Sydney cabled the news of the
strike to their country for the benefit of the Chinese
coalfields.” Japs did the same. From these countries
one or two cargoes may come to Australia ; but the idea
probably’ is, not to capture the Australian home trade,
which would be impossible, but to cut into Australia’s
foreign coal trade. That foreign trade is the curse of the
business. It depends upon a thousand circumstances
over which Australia has no control. Two years
ago the trade boomed. Industry abroad was brisk,
and freights were fairly low. Hence new Australian
mines, were opened and old ones were re-opened.
There was a great demand for men, and they’ poured into
the coalfields. Then things changed suddenly. The
foreign industrial boom eased off. That meant not only
less foreign demand for Australian coal, but keener com-
petition on the part of foreign coal suppliers who had a
surplus production. Added to that, the big Australian
wheat and wool yields made Australian freights dear. So
down toppled the Australian foreign coal trade; and the
men who had been got together to supply the boom
demand were only able to get work for a day or two a
fortnight. We are very proud sometimes of our great
foreign coal trade. On the whole we would probably be
better without it, and in the long run we certainly should.
The new directors of the Broken Hill Junction
are gathering up the reins of power quietly but firmly.
Work at the mine is going on as smoothly’ as before, and
the bomb thrown into the camp by angry’ people who
didn't get a seat on the Board seems to have been only a
squib after all. If any of these gentlemen were really
jockeyed out of a seat on the Board, as they say they
were, it will be very poor satisfaction for them to put
tacks, business end up, in the seats of their more diplo-
matic brethren. The lode at the 1000 ft. level is expected
any’ day now, and a good deal depends upon whether it
pans out well or not. The policy of rummaging in the
upper levels for bodies of rich ore that were missed in the
feverish rush of the Joel Phillips days is also a good one,
and should have been carried through by the deposed
directorate.
* ■* * *
Having satisfied himself that his process can
handle the Broken Hill slimes successfully, E. J. Horwood
lias been working away' on the Tasmanian West Coast
complex ores. Two bulk parcels carrying 30 per cent,
zinc and 10 per cent, lead have been divided into zinc
concentrates and residues, like this :
Product.
Zino Lead
Ore. Concentrates, Concentrates,
zinc, lead, zinc, lead, zinc. lead.
(1) 30p.c. 10 p.c, 55 p,c. 8 p.c, 8 p.c. 20 p.o,
(2) 30 p.c, 10 p.c. 57 p.o. 5 p.c, s’B p.o. 20 p.c.
The residues, or lead concentrates, carry the irongangue.
The zinc concentrates are particularly good. On the
Broken Hill sulphides the oil-acid flotation processes in
use rarely produce anything better than a 48 per cent,
zinc concentrate. As previously explained, the Horwood
process includes flotation after a preliminary’roast at a
moderate heat (understood to be about 400° centigrade).
* * * «
The Broken Hill Junotion and Junction North
have pricked up their ears gt the mention of what E. J,
Horwood’s slime process is doing at Bendigo, and both
of them have gent their managers off to investigate. In
these mines the ore is very hard apd the sliming excessive ;
and a reasonably cheap process which would recover the
metals from the fine muck would considerably’brighten
their accounts, Block 10 is also deeply interested,
* ■* * *
Queen Bee (N.S.W.) is changing managers
again. Fox, who used to he its chairman of directors,
has had a 12 months’ go at it. The copper market cer-
tainly hasn’t helped him ; and the, pernicketty crowd
which runs the show won’t either supply the necessary
money for equipment or let anybody else do it.
During the mining boom of two years back
about half a dozen cos. were formed to work Wyalong
(N.S.W.) properties. At least that was what it was said
they .were formed for ; but there are some doubts about
it. At any’ rate, all the real mining work some of them
did wouldn’t have made ari earth-worm perspire.
Although in most oases the money put up and callable
was ridiculously little, the cos. usually made a big sur-
face show, and did hardly anything underneath,
presumably on the ground that the top-hamper
would be more impressive. And while top-hamper
was being crowded on, the office expenses were mostly
very solid. Some, of these cos. have disappeared, and
another, the Barrier, turned up at the Warden’s Court
the other day and begged for the right to knock off for
six months to see whether it couldn’t squeeze out another
shilling a share. According to the chairman, all the
shaft-sinking it got out of the first £3OOO put up was 7£ft.
—the rest went in top-hamper and sundries. The co. has
now used up all its capital, has borrowed £1135 on deben-
tures, and owes a few hundreds besides ; and the Warden
decided to give the co. a shade over two months in which
to drag itself together. Of course it says now that it
is quite a reformed co. ; but it’s pretty safe to say that
the reformation has come too late in the day to save its
life.
* * * *
The Sydney market is having a flutter at last
in a N.S.W. deep lead; so the Cathcart boom in Mel-
bourne comes in handy for those with shares to unload.
From ss. contribs. in the Main Ridge have been rapidly
bumped alon'g to 14s. Fifty loads of wash just got ojuf
of No. 3 North drive is estimated at 7dwt. No. 2 North
has been driven 246 ft. from No. 2 pass. The wash is 3ft.
thick, and the face prospects 4dwt. to the load. Whfen
th'e wash is only’ a few’ inches thick, it usually gives th'e
best prospects. A cross drive between No. landJNo. 2
drives.is expected to open a long face of dirt. On dish
prospects some of the thin seams of cement are Worth
30dwt., but the bulk of the wash will probably average
only 4dwt., and after paying for mining and crushing
there won’t be much left out of that. This lead haS been
known for years, but the yield of gold with primitive
appliances was not a fortune. The first reports on the
present resurrection placed a high value on the tailings;
but these have been severely’ tested by the local fossicker,
and the old records, such as they are, don’t point to any
big profits made or to be made out of them.
* * * *
The railway to Mt. Elliott, Cloncurry (Queens-
land), should be as far as Hampden by the end of
February, and should reach Mt. Elliott by the end of
June, wnich will be about six months ahead of schedule
time. With the railway to Hampden the co. will have to
see about erecting some kind of treatment plant for the
Duchess and Hampden ores. New manager Huntley has
taken the properties over, and is now going into the best
method of treating his ores. Mt. Elliott is pushing on
with the earthworks for the new treatment plant, and
hopes to have everything in working order by the time
the railway’ reaches there in June.
4 * * *
Charters Towers promises itself a few Christ-
mas dividends. Mills’ United has been crushing stone
worth on an average £4 ss. 4d. per ton, so it will probably
pan out Is. Blocks of good stone over No. 10 on the
main reef and over No. 7 on the hanging-wall reef have
been heavily drawn upon, and future divs. must depend
largely on the value of the new shoot in the deep levels
and the block developed below No. 10. No. 13 is now
about 150 ft. from the New Brilliant Freehold boundary’,
and the end facing that way is showing a small reef of
medium quality. The extension of No. 14 out towards
this shoot of mineralised stone will be worth watching.
For the month Bonnie Dundee crushed 642 tons for £3854.
Some good stone is being stoped east and west of the
rise and over No. 2 and No. 3 levels ; but a good deal of
picking is done, which helps to account for the high
working costs. The hanging-wall crosscut from No. 4
passed through a reef of lightiy-mineralised stone at 94ft.,
so there are hopes that, in driving, another payable shoot
may be found. The Bonnie has also cleaned out No. 3
shaft down to 1700 ft., and intends to prospect a formation
worked by Marshall’s Queen.
Pfeiffer’s Day Dawn, Charters Towers, will
gather in its 3d. call on the strength of rich assays from
the rise over No. 9 level, which will connect with No. 8
and make a much-needed improvement in ventilation.
Charters Towers is proud of the fact that the Day Dawn
reef has been worked for a length of 8000 ft; but there
have been so many blanks, and some of them have been
so big, that one section of the Day’ Dawn hardly knows
the other as a neighbor. The Brilliant reef, however, has
been worked almost continuously’ from the shallow levels
in the Victory for 5000 ft. along the underlay down to the
Brilliant Extended at a vertical depth of 2700 ft. Lying
at a flat angle, the Brilliant probably extends over a very
big area to much greater depths ; but the greater the
depth the greater the difficulties, as, of course, the reef
isn’t all prizes and no blanks. Inferior ventilation helps
to increase the costs ; yet at its deepest point the Brilliant
is being worked for less money than any other reef on the
field. Brilliant Deep is opening east and west levels from
the underlay shaft on a strong reef. Five head of stamps
are to be kept going, so calls may’ ease off.
*■ * * •
New Eitiasleigh (Q.) shipped 1960 tons of 7'2 per
cent, copper ore to Chillagoe for September, and since
then for the half month it has forwarded 1177 tons of the
same quality’. No. 3 level has provided most of the ore,
but No. 4is opening up satisfactorily. Asin most copper
mines, the ore bodies are irregular and subject to dis-
placement, but still the chances are that the new Einas-
leigh will become a big producer. The management,
which has been very poor, is going in for heavy expendi-
ture on mine development and concentrating plant.
The terms of the smelting contract with the
Chillagoe Co. are not published, but it is hardly
likely that the latter will have such a strong pull
on the Einasleigh as it had on Mungana. And, anyhow, 7
per cent, copper is a better proposition than a complex
mixture of many metals, even though some of them are
present in bigger quantities.
Last month Mount Morgan’s furnaces treated
18,412 tons ore for 524 tons copper and 85550 z. gold—more
than 16oz. gold per ton of copper. Every ton of the red
metal contains a good deal more than its own value of
gold; so, if it were not for the high working costs, this
mine’s outlook would be very sw’eet. Revenue is shaping
for £1,000,000 a year, but dividends don’t seem inclined
to get beyond £50,000 per quarter; and a distribution of
one-fifth of the gross value isn’t a result to be satisfied
with. A bright feature of last month’s figures is the
return of 64600 z. gold from 16,515 tons ore treated at the
chlorination works. This class of ore is not so near its
end as was once thought. The profit from gold ore
should at present account for about half of the dividends,
for, although that ore is only half as rich as the copper-
gold ore, it costs very much less to mine and treat.
* v* » *
Central Queensland’s Bluff Colliery Co. has
finished another half-year without hatching out a divi-
dend. Still, the hopefulness of Micawber wasn’t a cir-
cumstance compared with this co.’s trust in the future.
Though the output last half-year was only 7079 tons,
there is now a regular order for 2000 tons a month on the
books. The co. has also become a coke manufacturer,
and Mount Morgan has agreed to sample 60 tons of the
new bake. Though the manager describes the Bluff coal
as “the finest coal in the world ’’(and there’s nothing like
a good opinion of the show you are bossing), an interest
has been acquired in Blair Athol coal areas. The idea is
to mix Blair Athol and “ the best coal in the world,” and
the mixture is expected to produce a heat which would
shrivel up the fire-bars of Hades. The profit for the half-
year was £320, which goes into more coke ovens and
improvements. The directors are considering how they
may best increase the oapital so as to hurry on develop-
ment.
nr * ♦ •
Speaking of Mount Cuthbert copper mine
(N.-W. Queensland), Warden Linedale reports: “The
country’ may have been shattered by some eruptive force
for a considerable width.” Reconstruction of the co. has
had much the same effect on the share market, and sales
have been made down to 6d. a share. A seam of ore
worth 6 per cent, over a width of 14ft. is spoken of ; but
the warden’s description fits the mine. It is a big
gamble.
Black Range (W.A.) had a Cup flutter. Behind
it is Western-Victorian squatterdom, and, coming down
for the races, it and its friends ran shares up from about
525. to 655. on the strength of a good 2oz. reef picked up
at the No. 7 level. This is presumably at 500 ft. ; No. 6is
at 450 ft., and levels hitherto have been driven every 50fr,
The lode is very’ flat, and still another main shaft will
have to be sunk before long'to w’ork this deeper ground.
For Nos. 4, 5 and 6 have been better than those above, and
for once in a way’ things seem to be improving steadily’
with depth, On a capital of £72,500 divs. already amount
to about £115,000.
■» » * *
The Black Range West is a position claim west
of the Black Range’s No. 5B block. It is owmed by a
recently-formed Sydney co.,Which is now continuing a
shaft to pick up the underlay. There is practically no
doubt about getting the underlay ; in fact, the Black
Range’s No. 5 level is farther west than the B.’R. West
■ co. ’s eastern boundary. In other words, the Black Range
' itself, which commenced work on block 48, is already into
an underlay block(26B). The West co.’s property occupies
the same relation to the Black Range Co.’s southern
block as Block 268 (where the co. is now working) does
to its own northern block. The reef certainly 1 runs
through the southern block, and there is practically no
doubt that it und rlays into the West Co.’s ground ; but
whether it contains a similar or any other payable 1 shoot
of gold has yet to be proved. If that were certain, shares,
of course, wouldn’t be 3s. or so (there are only. 60,000 in
all). On position, and on the Black Range’s recent
developments, it is an alluring gamble. On Charters
Towers, where the gamble on “ position ” is keener than
anywhere else in Australia, the shares would, in fact, pro-
bably be 10s. by this time. Which explains why for the
punter Charters Towers is a good place to “make a
punch ” or lose a pile.
« • * *
Paringa Mines, Ltd., which lately acquired some
mines, or delusions, outside Australia, has condescended
to allow “ colonial ” holders ample time to apply for shares
in the reconstructed co. As concerns of the Paringa type
are not usually so solicitous regarding the interests of
Australian serippers, its generosity in the present instance
looks mighty suspicious. Won’t the English holders fork
out, or have they smelt a rat?
*** * . ,
Poseidon rush, Tarnagulla (Vic.), has been
visited by the mining man of the Argus, who temporises
with the obvious truth. The rush is over—dead as
Caesar’s clay. If it is ever to revive, the smug, well-to-do
land-owners in the neighborhood will have to yield to
the wants of the miner. But the miner has no
effective champion in the State Parliament just now,
so the prospectors who made Victoria a world’s name are
drifting away to other States, or into semi-servitude to
the fat man who grabs mining reserves. Poseidon would
have been dead ere now if the Cathcart boom had not
kicked it into flickering semi-animation. The only new
thing that can be told about it is that Jimmy Mackay has
pegged out a block on the Newbridge racecourse, and
will give the deep ground a try. Some of the
Cathcart mugwumps may be in with him. If
so, there is sure to be a preliminary flutter
in the scrip. But the gold is the doubtful point.
It’s deep ground that gives Poseidon its chance as a
mining field ; and there isn’t any use in writing reams of
padding about used-up gutters until Mackay shows that
he has got the gold.
• * * *
Bad news from Rutherglen (Vic.). Pumps at
the Prentice and Southern, 8., M. and Co.’s show, have
broken, cash is short, ground is poor, water is heavy,
mine is shut down, and 300 workers are out on their
uppers. Prentice and Southern represents the combined
North Prentice and the old Southern and Prentice mines,
and was picked up for a trifle by the firm. Many a thou-
sand have been spilt there since; for it has always
seemed good enough to go on with —the gutter
is wide, and the gold exasperatingly close
to the paying point. With all their deep-
lead failures disheartening them, no one will be surprised
if the stoppage provides the firm with the excuse for
chucking the show. If this happens, mines higher up
the leads may find it hard to keep going, and more of the
workers may have to leave. Pumping by the Prentice
and Southern, viewed in that light, is a national enter-
prise.
* * -k *
Horseshoe, Maindample (Vic.), has gone the
pace too fast. It is the old story--a few good returns,
then up with a battery instead of proving a big slab of
stone first. “Indications” of a large body of quartz were
taken to be the real Mackay. Instead, the shoot of gold cut
out, with the devil to pay and no pitch hot. All that
could be done was to drive for the eastern make of stone
to see if the Horseshoe would bring luck there. So far
this alternative has failed lamentably’, though there is a
chance that gold will be picked up on the pitch of the
shoot. Maindample has been out of favor since the time
of the Forbes flutter. The shoot of gold was rich enough,
as long as it lasted, but finally it failed as suddenly as a
pony-cdurse favorite, and the field has been a blur ever
since.
* » » *
When the battery got to work at the Mt.
Cleveland (Tas.), the tall stories told officially about the
value of the stuff fell all to pieces. Except among an
infatuated few, the damage done was probably not
serious, for the tall stories didn’t look convincing. The
directors say now: “The material sent to the battery
has for some time past averaged rather less than 1 per
cent., and is now more py’ritic than formerly’, which
necessitates the whole output of the mine being treated by
the calciner.” If cheap water power can be got (and sur-
veys are being made to find out) the co. may pull through
even on that ; but there is a debt of close up to £3OOO, and
the shareholders are not rushing the directors with more
money to improve the appliances. Last half-year a profit
of £273 was shown ; but no allowance was made for
depreciation.
* * * *
Now another wing of the old Broken Hill crowd
is at work on a Balfour float; but it didn’t fly quite as
high as the Bowes Kelly-Knox lot did over the Balfour
Central. This time Broken Hill and Cathcart join forces ;
for interested in the Pierpont Morgan are Dodd and
Hagelthorn, Cathcart directors, along with Alexander
Campbell and Hyndman, w’ho are on the boards of Broken
Hill South, Block 10 and Block 14. The Pierpont Morgan
was one of the blocks mopped up by the Murray brothers,
who pioneered the field; and C. F. Colvin is the engineer
who makes the necessary few remarks. And some of his
remarks, though there are not many of them, are worth
pasting in a convenient place for hand.v reference:
“ Here(at Balfour)certainly w’e have the indubitable fact of
20 miles or more of fissured country’, or geological lines of
weakness, wherein copper material has been deposited.
Bearing this in mind, it must be conceded that the pro-
specting of this line of country is work for many
years to come, and development can only disclose
many blanks.” Probably he didn’t mean quite that
last; but anyhow it is no doubt the fact that
there are going to be heaps of disappointments at
Balfour, and business at present should only be done
on a gambling basis. In the case of the P. Morgan, a
formation, said to be 30ft. wide, has been opened up a
little at 40ft. from the surface; and there is “payable
copper ” in it, though more work will have to be done
before they know whether the lode is pay’able. The co.
is in 1500 shares of £5 each, of which the promoters, etc.,
collar 200, besides £2OOO. And the best that can be said
of that basis is that, as things go at Balfour, the terms
are not ravenous, though such a heavy cash payment for
a practically undeveloped show isn’t a feature which the
market would put up with in its sane moments.
* * * *
From an old hand in the Northern Territory :
\V. N. Frayne says (B. 23/9/’O9), talking about the Tanami
gold rush, that, though the S. Aus. Government is open-
ing up a track from the east, “it is certain most of the
rush will start from Wyndham, on the VV.A. side.” There
are three routes to Tanami: (1) Pine Creek ; (2) Victoria
River; and (3) Wyndham. The shortest land route is
from the Victoria River Depot; the longest is via Pine
Creek. The existing track between Tanami and the
l)ep6t is via Gordon Downs, Inveray, Wave Hill and
Victoria Downs cattle station, and is 427 miles in length.
It is circuitous, but is being shortened considerably
by the Government well-sinking party, which intends to
cut off nearly 100 miles, making the road from the DepOt
the shortest and easiest track. Part of the road has
already been travelled by buggies. The road from Wynd-
ham is 450 miles in length. The route from Palmerston,
via Pine Creek, is at present 558 miles ; but this, too,
may be shortened considerably. Travellers via Pine
Creek may easily purchase horses and buggies—two
things that are very scarce in the Wyndham district.
But apart from that, the Northern Territory routes to
Tanami are in every respect better than those from
Westralia.
* * * *
“Dux”: Taranaki ( M.L.) has returned to its
cow-yard once more, after living for some weeks in the
clouds. During several months past drought had
gradually got Worse and worse at the Taranaki Petroleum
Co.’s No. 2 bore, and the output had dropped till it
varied from one barrel to an occasional five barrels per
day. Taranaki was reckoning: up how much it was
losing: in hard cash, when .chairman of directors Daniel
Berry threw up his job and roundly criticised the work of
the imported expert. -He cheerfully offered to take over
the bore and obtain “not less jthan 20 barrels per day.”
Bjerry was a sport, and put up £5O, which he agreed to
forfeit if he failed. The co. was game,'too, and agreed to
chance the possible damage, giving Berry a month to pre
pare, and 24 working days in .which to prove his
ability. Then Berry took off his coat and tackled the
job. For a time oil came freely enough, ten barrels a
day being the tally for the first week, and Taranaki grew
hopeful. But at the call of time Berry was still perspir-
ing copiously, and his 20 barrels per day were still far off.
Whereupon Taranaki, with characteristic generosity,
rushed in and talked excitedly about “ damage done to
the bore ” and a thousand other things. So Berry’s
hopes and 50 golden coins have gone, and petroleum pro-
mises to be several degrees “ deader” than it has been.
* % ir
For the service of far-outlying mines Renard
road trains are about to be tried in Queensland and S.
Aus. The Queensland Government has ordered one or
more, and the Macgregor-Cloncurry co. is going into
figures. In S. Aus., the Union Copper co., which owns
several shows around Yudnamutana, has bought a train,
which is already doing a little toil; but it will have more
to do when the smelters, which are now about
ready, get to ‘ regular work. In these Renard
trains, which are produced by the Daimler Motor Co.,
the engine doesn’t drag the trucks; the power is con-
veyed to each vehicle, and so, it is claimed, they can get
over almost any sort of track. In Europe,, where no
doubt petrol is cheaper than it i§ here, the cost runs from
l£d. to 2£d. per ton per mile. ' ’
Ole : Until the copper market settles down, it
is a gamble... .S.A.L. : Can’t express an opinion on any
of them at present. /.
* * * *
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &, J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure upifoym, prevenls
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
• * • *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves SO to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler* mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore Classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling 'band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screen ed.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [1
» * •* *
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and
mads by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only genuine,
reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers’ name, obtain from Sole Importers,
James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, who
carry large stocks, guaranteeing quality.* [4
* * » *
The Insurance Observer, London, of 4/9/’OB,
referring to The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, writes:—“One can rest assured that the popu-
larity of this famous Melbourne office is still growing, and
one may reasonably hope that the current period will
yield even grander results.”*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 vears Expert Salesman.)*
* • •
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tf.nax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
*■*■*■#
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, whichis common slack, being
less than l£lb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, muiing and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
■**•#■ ■*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Cot.uson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H.,8. Siuberbhrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * * *
Mather & Platt’s Double Acting 2 Cycle Gas
Engine presents an interesting proposition to the
manager of mine, works or mill. It is the only gas
engine in which an impulse is given with every stroke,
which gives the highest degree of regularity in running.
For work requiring variation of speed no other gas engine
can compare with this type; for reliable working and
durability it is equal to the best steam engine. Gibson,
Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128
William Street, Melbourne, as Sole Agents, will send
catalogues to those interested.*


JIC.
o m
FOB
MoreMi
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
<aves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
df
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Money Back if not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS 8 CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties.
Send full particulars, with all plans and repo-ts
available, to “ MINE,” care J. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
SURPRISING.
THE STRANGER: “ Your stock take quite intelli-
gent notice of me, farmer.”
THE FARMER: “ Burn funny, ain't it; they must
hare a sense of humor.”
“ Polstan ” : In spite of my remark that I
didn’t want to hear anything about the assumed
possibility of such a thing as a drowned snake,
the young and beautiful “ Gip ” and the übiquit-
ous “Jinunie Pannikin” have supplied tons of
bedraggled, wet reptiles, just as I expected. I
forgive “Gip.” I’d forgive her anything, almost,
and I’d like to be near enough to tell her so. As
regards James of the drinking utensil, I desire to
state that he’s beside the argument. I said you
can’t drown a snake —and you can’t. If you take
a snake and pitch it into one of Jimmie’s floods,
and it is jostled by fallen forests and washed
through a score of rabbit-proof fences, and stumps
lodge on top of it, and it is hurried for miles over
unfamiliar country, it is almost bound_ to die of
something—loneliness, perhaps, or grief at the
breaking up of the home, but that isn’t drowning.
If the prisoner of Chillon had remained much
longer in his dungeon he would also, in all prob-
ability, have died of lonesomeness and heart-
break, but that wouldn’t have proved that he was
drowned either, would it ?
“ Yarrum ” : This is a little problem I met
last week in the “beautiful Illawarra district,” on
the fertile N.S.W. South Coast, where Cow is
god and the big landlord is the devil—though
unfortunately he is not recognised as such. The
problem was lurking inside a dwelling of three
rooms, occupied by dad, mum and nine children
—eldest (a boy) 18 years, and youngest three years
old. Between are three fine girls, 15, 11 and 10
years respectively. The cooking and grubbing
room is TO x 6. Dad’s room is 10 x 8 ; and the
sleeping apartment for nine children—an apart-
ment in which there are only two beds—is 12 xB.
The partition between the bedrooms does not
reach nearly to the ceiling, and the youngsters
climb over or peep through the cracks—big cracks
—most of the time they are not asleep. The old
man “don't mind at all,” and the missus, she
“don’t mind either.” How can children continue
to live like this and grow up decent ? Up to date
there is no evidence of anything having gone
wrong, but how long will it last?
• * • *
Some notes about a Rip Van Winkle
hamlet: —
The little mountain village of Marysville (Vic.), which
dozes at the far side of the Hume Range, has lately come
into the limelight through a sensational double divorce
case. Marysville, which is an ideal abode of rest, is now
retreating thankfully into the shadow of public forgetful-
ness, and the occasional visitor who scrambles over the
Black Spur and hurries round the Devil’s Elbow, intent
on trout fishing or plain loafing, finds a small community
of about 100 people who are willing to talk on any subject
save divorce courts. One of my treasured recollections is
of a sweet, reposeful fortnight spent amongst the Marys-
villians, with the solemn, silent mountains sitting round
and looking immovably peaceful and immense. Christinas
drifted in over the peaks whilst I was there, and with it
came two Irish road-menders. One, the elder, was a
small, serious man, almost as silent as the mountains
amongst which he worked; the younger was tall and as
garrulous as the shallowest of the trout streams. They
started in to celebrate the season, and for two days they
trudged and dozed in affectionate companionship be-
tween the two. pubs which bound and moisten the
village. One night, after Christmas, 1 was sitting with
my friend the hotelkeeper on the verandah of the pub
nearest the Dead-Asleep Mountains when the dragging
sound of tired feet sounded somewhere on the road close
by. It was a velvet black night, and we could only guess
that the cause of the trouble was Dan and Pat making
back to their camp. The progress of the hidden feet was
incredibly slow, and we were chuckling in the shadows
when one pair crunched towards the pub, and a long,
swaying form moored itself to a verandah post. The
other pair of feet went relentlessly on into the outer
darkness. Then a voice several fathoms deep in sleep
begged and demanded beer, and nothing would per-
suade it to cease its pleading. On the score that
two men hadn’t a drop to moisten their tongues
with, the beer was at length procured, and with niany
confused but earnest blessings Dan unwound himself
from the post and, stowing the bottles in his pockets,
started off to overtake Pat, the sound of whose retreating
footsteps was but a memory of the darkness. We
reckoned that the silent, slow and determined Pat must
have got at least two miles’ start of the beer-winner dur-
ing the argument. We listened to Dan’s lost voice crying
at, intervals “Are ye there, Pat? Are ye -there ? ” and
agreed that he would probably be inquiring that way all
night—unless sleep conquered him. The plaintive voice
of the drifting searcher came back to us on the warm
night wind, and we smiled wearily. But just as he was
getting beyond earshot the utterly impossible thing hap-
pened. A voice from something prone in the bracken
growled in answer, “ Yis, I’m heer ! ” Then, unto the
one who had fallen unexpectedly by the wayside, Dan,
the arch-deceiver of publicans, spake thusl.v : “ Wake up,
Pat. Listen t’ me now ! I’ve got whisky an' beer here,
ah’ I want t’ know this : Which will ye have fursst 1 ”
* m 9 *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Wherever Austra-
lian products go outside of Australia they make
many converts to Australianism, yet we permit
each State to maintain a Stink-
ing Fish Party in comfort-
able circumstances. Our own
old-man saltbush, after four
years of test and trial in the
Orange Free State, has trium-
phantly proved its great value
as a drought-resisting fodder.
The Farmers’ Advocate
(published in Bloemfontein)
gives full and gratifying par-
ticulars of the experimental
cultivation of saltbush for
fodder. By the way, I am
forming a Society for the
Compulsory Deportation to
Timbuctoo of all Ashamed,
Apologetic and Apathetic
Australians. Lists of persons
deserving to be deported to
be sent to J. Pannikin, at
Pannikin town near Dishville,
accompanied with cheque
for preliminary expenses.
* *
“Squib”: In South Australia reynard
has chosen as his paramour the wily dingo. The
offspring combines the least adorable character-
istics of each parent. He possesses the cunning
of the brush tail and the shyness and ferocity of
the native dog. By his climbing propensities he
has reduced fox-proof fences to an absurdity. His
preference for lamb’s tongues as an early breakfast
and poultry for midnight sprees has established
him as an arch enemy of the jackeroo, cockatoo,
and squatter too. This trinity lives in nightly
terror of the monstrosity, and north of Pirie and
in the districts of Baroota and Beetaloo, where he
is as innumerable as the ordinary fox, the lunacy
percentage is increasing weekly. Specimens have
been captured, and an attempt has been made in
vain to poison the mutton-fiend. When he directs
his energies to the poddies, and in addition
devours the tongue of the bell that proclaims the
location of the milking herd at 3.30 a.tn., the
cowatoo may enthuse and devise an antidote.
Meantime, the slaughter goes on. No doubt
aboliars will scoff at the existence of such an
animal, but I have sufficient proof to submerge
all sceptical scribes. Look at the heap of cynics
that jeered at our Tantanoola Tiger—and then
look at the Tiger !
HOSPITAL SCENE.
NURSE (to dosser): "Now, you must hare a bath.”
Dosser (aghast): "What, a wet bath?”
N URSE: “ Yes, certainly.”
DOSSER (appealingly): "Say, Miss, can't I have it done by one of them vacuum cleaners?"
“ Silex The more I see of the toughness
of the Australian bushboy the more hope I have
for the future of our own white country. The
other day two of these youngsters took me shoot-
ing flock-pigeons. Barefooted they pushed,
without a moment’s hesitation, among the lawyer
vines, which ; scratched and tore at me at every
step. Early ill the proceedings one of the lads
almost trod on a tiger snake. On my shrieking
an alarm, he calmly raised his gun and blew “the
worm’s” head off. ’ Next we got acquainted with
the stinging-tree. They growled a bit, until they
got a chance to anoint the injured parts w th
juice of the cunjeboy. On leaving the scrub they
scraped several leeches from their bare legs, after
which the blood streamed from the wounds ; and
all they said about that was that it was a pity
they hadn’t a bit of salt to rub into the punctures.
THE MUSIC OF THE MUTTON BIRD.
DRUNK (at the meat safe): “ Siting prirry cocky
(hie), siting, an I'll give yer shum meat! ”
“ Larrakeyah ” : Touching the Wai-hoi,
the little old ark which has been for these years
past the only link between Port Darwin and the
outlying coastal settlements, “ Mallarapoonie ”
said (B. 19/8/’09): “Finally she got tired of life
while in the mouth of the Roper, and now her old
bones have found rest at last.” So the insurance
co. thought, for it not only paid up a considerable
sum more or less cheerfully, but sold the ruin to
the original owners for a trifle over £lOO. Then
these people set to work, got her off the sandbank,
and brought her round to Darwin, most of the
way under her own steam. I went down to have
a look at her one Monday. Her nose rested in
the mud, and she was tied to some mangroves;
but some day they intend to patch her up and
send her to sea again ; so apparently we won’t be
deprived of our Wai-hoi yet awhile.
“Mallarapoonie”: Re queer place-names. (
The championship—the ultimate and final dead-
finish, as it were—is held by a lake on the Lower
Cooper, in South Aus. The name of that lake is
simply the cry of the black-and-white shag what
time he calls impatiently to the missus to come
home and cook breakfast for the egg. Only
the natives of lower Cooper’s Greek can pronounce
that name. It would run into about a yard and a
half of small-pica, if it ever got printed, but it
never will be printed unless some one throws 31b.
of type into the air and catches it on a shovel
when it comes down, and then publishes the
shovelful.
Queensland’s Chief Protector of Aborigines
Howard sat down the other day to write a report
to his Government concerning his recent
tour of inspection, and found there was a
sort of King Charles’ head in the inkpot.
It was a leering, yellow head, with a pigtail
attached to it, and it bobbed up so often in
the report that the document seemed a
mostlv-yellow one, instead of the black one
that Mr. Howard intended it to be. Where-
ever he had a look at our colored fellow-
Australian he found the same thing hapf en-
ing—Binghi was going under to the Clow
and the Chow’s opium. This was very
noticeably the case among the almost primi-
tive aborigines of the Cedar Creek and David-
son localities, and the inspector bluntly
stated that, unless they are protected against
the Chow and his vile habits, there soon
won’t be any aborigines thereabouts. This,
by the way, seems to argue a very large
hole in the wall that is supposed to be set up
by the opium importation laws. Where
does the Chow get opium so extensively
that he can afford to “splash it round” in
that fashion among the blacks ?
■**■*••
“ Wang ” talks of bottles in the
bush :
Mrs. Gumleaves-if she happens to be of a frugal and
jam-making l disposition—rarely allows a suitable bottle
to escape from the house. She winds a piece of woollen
thread which has been previously soaked in kerosene
round the shoulder of it, and applies a match ; or else she
makes an iron ring red hot and cracks off the neck by
dropping it on the bottle with the tongs. She then has
another addition to her stock of “tins.” Many cookies
use bottles placed neck down in the ground as pivots to
rest gates on. Then again, a short length of bamboo or
othep hollowwood , swathed round with a piece of rag and
8tlI( . k j nto a bottle, is a crude but effective substitute for
a living cow, and may be utilised to make stub-
born poddies take their proper nouris merit. Bottles
stuck neck down in the earth form quite a decent border
for a garden bed, and the pickle bottle with its wide
niouth jg a favorite of the orch ardist. Filled with some
sticky mixture like treacle and water and hung on afruit
tree, it is an excellent pest trap. The home-made canvas
water-bag usually has a bottle-neck sewn in one corner,
and a clear-glass bottle with the bottom knocked out is a
good emergency lamp. The rolling-pin gets lost at inter-
vals ln ever Y household, and then the bottle helps to
make the scones. More than once I have seen fastidious
bush bachelors use a square-faced gin bottle filled with
} lot) WiUer as an iron wherewith to “do up” their linen,
before going forth to capture the affections of the gentle
bush girl.
THE PROFIT-HUNTING BEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. W. Abram (president of the Beekeepers’ Union)
ectured on “ Bees and Honey 7” in St. dames’ Hall last
alight. He detailed the natural history of the insect
which, he maintained, showed as much intelligence as
human beings in its work of gathering honey and subse-
quently forming colonies for storage purposes. The bee
ilid not perform its duties in a haphazard manner, for,
when it selected a flower, it obtained every particle of
honey. When the required amount had been
secured the bee returned to the colony and unloaded ;
leaving again directly afterwards in search of more pro-
fitable flowers.— News item.
Hear the lesson of the Bee—
Of the stinging, buzzing Bee !
You will never find it buzzing round a bare and ancient
tree,
But it haunts the tree that’s heavy
With the honey, and it makes
On its hidden store a levy,
And the parcel that it takes
Bulges out its deep side-pockets, and it never, never stops
Till it’s hunted round the petals and absorbed the final
drops ;
Then the flying burglar waddles out and into mid-air flops.
And he wings—wings—wings
And the flying song he sings
Tells the distant hive he’s coming and describes the loot
he brings ;
If it’s apple, quince or peach
He emits a high-pitched screech ;
But a deep and mellow hum
Tells tlie inside staff it’s plum ;
And they buzz around like fury and clear out some idle
cell
Into which the orchard robber can cast all his wealth
pell-mell
And swoop out again to forage in the good old idle dell
Where the breeze
Bike a shopman shows the blossom to the bargain-hunting
Bees.
Hear the lesson of the Bee—
Of the keen, hard-headed Bee !
It has got more sense than we have. There is no insol-
vency
Where the Bee’s insistent humming
On the drowsy summer air
Tells the trembling tree, “ I’m coming
For my little summer share ! ”
Then the cheque the grower clutches when the champion
season ends
Is as nothing to the dripping of the Bee’s big dividends,
And he never buys or borrows, and he never, never lends.
So he sings—sings—sings
As his booty home he brings,
And he flies high over fences with his busy, buzzy wings.
All your fences, bolts and bars
Will not keep him flying light,
For this brigand from the stars
Calmly robs all banks at sight;
And he’s never prosecuted, and he’s never put in gaol,
But he’s quoted in the fable and the moral fairy-tale
As the fierce, hard-working insect who has never wanted
bail.
Clever Bee !
He collects the rose’s treasure and is praised for industry !
N.S.W.
FOE.


bftlfes
Schnapps
gdf
OJolfes
Schnapps
A PURE SPIRIT, SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
NEWNESS g
QUALITY
Are our two main studies.
We secure newness from England and
the Continent.
Our London people send us the latest
each mail.
Quality we secure by making the goods
on the premises.
Each piece of gold is assayed before
being used, and, when made, it is not
only stamped, but every ticket is marked
in plain figures with the assay-quality,
and so buyers can read all about our goods.
NO house in Australia makes better
quality goods than we do.
3 Choice Blue Sapphires and Selected Diamonds,
Mounted in Fine Gold, £l6 10s.
Half-Hoop of Rubies, Interspersed with Diamonds,
Mounted in Fine Gold, £l7 10s.
Plain Figures
Cash.
]
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
“ Cornstalk,” from Cunnamulla (Q.)
lie the disputed pace of foxes in Australia. Up here in
Queensland we are just striking the advance guard, and
are wondering where the pace conies in. It may be that
they haven’t got quite used to our climate yet, but
the few we have had a run at had no pace to mention.
Any old crock can, if not run them down, at least make
them take to a loy or large rabbit burrow. Compared
with the dingo, which in timber often beats our best
men and horses, the fox is an easy scoop.
*■ * * *
The stranger sat up by the camp-fire and
spoke:—
All the good men are out of the horse-stealing business
now. The blokes nowadays don’t have the knack of
getting away like they used to. If a chump lifts a
brumby or two now, you hear of him getting two years a
few weeks later. . . . ,
I remember in the big strike Colpa station finished
shearing just before the call out came. They had the
wool right enough, but as all the station hands had left
and no teams were to be got, they douldn’t get it to the
railway station 90 miles away.
Now Brown the squatter had a prize team of draught
horses, 14 of them, worth £4O or £5O a head ; and as he
could get no one else, he put young Brown on to cart the
Young Brown, who didn’t amount to much, travelled
20 miles the first day. When he camped he fixed a big
bullock bell to each horse, and turned them out. Then
he had his supper and turned in.
He couldn't sleep much, and every time he woke he
listened for the bells. The horses were never far away,
and seemed to keep well together. Towards daybreak
he could sleep no more. He listened for the bells. They
were further &w<iy than before \ but as they seemed to be
all together, that didn’t trouble young Brown. He got
ud and lit a fire, determined to fetch the horses directly
he could see. Then suddenly he heard a loud jangle Of
bells, and after that such dead silence that young Brown
could hear the wool in the bales.
He hurried in the direction of the last sound ; but
could hear nothing more, nor could he find any horses.
Then daylight came, and after wandering about for a
while he stumbled on a long sapling With 14 bullock bells
tied to it. Brown never saw. a hoof of those horses again.
You see, there were two men in it. They must have
lifted the horses sOon after Brown turned them out.
They' took the bells off and tied them to the sapling. Then
one man drove the nags away, and the other hung about
the camp and shook the sapling till close on morning.
Then he threw it down, jufnped on his horse, and cleared.
THE AERONAUTS' TOPHET.
“ Malleelander ” : Be the “ aboriginalis-
ing” of rum-stained nations (beg pardon—rum-
named stations), “ Root-hog-or-die ” is as rum a
name as any station is burdened with. That is
the designation of genial old Archie Currie’s
Malleeland property) Way out in the backblocks
of Victoria.
TOO HAUGHTY.
MRS. CITY: “ I believe your governess has left."
MRS. BUSH: “ Yes , my dear. She was quite impossible. Would you believe it. one night she
positively refused to milk the goats."
The Tweed River,, the northern boundary
of the Ma State, is in a parlous way. The bar has
shoaled up, and trade for the past few months has
been paralysed. The dredge Antleon was for a
while in holts with the blue Pacific, trying to
throw back the sand faster than the blue Pacific
threw it in. The dredge was almost a winner,
when it hurriedly departed for the Richmond
River, to enter into a like herculean struggle there.
The Tweedites are shockingly profane at this
departure, which they say is simply because
Perry, M.L.A., is a State Minister with a dicky
seat and his re-election depends on his efforts to
beat the blue Pacific on the Ballina bar While
the Antleon has been away the sand it had shit ten
at the Tweed all came back again, and the latter
end of things isn't one dashed fragment better
than the first.
* * * *
“ X.P.D.” on Cow- worshippers : The
Curse of Cow falls on children even before their
cocky parents are properly sure that their par-
ticular bit of Australia has become a dairying dis-
trict. Kuranda (N.Q.) is known to most people
simply as a good place for tourists. Xheie have
been no selections to be taken up there for years
past, and never were
many. But the banks of
the Barron are not bad for
cows to live on, and the
Curse has come too. The
symptoms of this menace
to child-life are similar to
those existing in southern
districts where the horned
juggernaut exists in large
numbers. Patients —of
whom there are at least
half a dozen in a school
of about 20 —may be
identified by their listless
demeanor. They come to
school late, as a rule, with
hallucinations about
horned creatures that had
to be overcome ; they fall
asleep on the desks, and
have to be let off early.
One pair of girls—daught-
ers of a lengthsman who
draws Government wages
and is officially supposed
not to compete with ordin-
ary settlers—go to school
turn about, one damsel
humping milk one day
while her sister wastes
time at school, and
both of them milk and
otherwise serve Cow
morning and evening. A
warning by the authori-
ties to those of the parents
under their control might mitigate the disease;
but high officials here are more merciful than in
the south, and shrink from using drastic measures.
I have an impression that a modification of the
American treatment with tar and feathers—
applied to the parents of the afflicted would
be efficacious ; but such new remedies are hard to
introduce.
“E.F.R.”: From the Melbourne Age
(30/10/’O9): —
The celebrated naturalist and explorer, Mr. William
Johns, who some time a pro left to explorethe virgin
forests of Costa Rica, has been killed and eaten bj
jaguars. By the side of the remains were found three
dead jaguars.
Can anybody tell me what part of a naturalist is
so deadly ? I may want to eat one some day.
» * * *
Moving extract from “Locota’s” great un-
published novel :
Gently. tenderly, compassionately, the chauffeur and
Sir Thomas lifted the 40-h.p. Panhard off the prostrate
form of the old woman, and carried her to the hedge.
Though badly damaged, she was not, as she persistently
droned, “ Dying, dying, dying.” The Baronet tore off
his thousand-guinea sable sacque and pillowed it beneath
her bleeding head. Her eyes began to close ; a crisis was
obviously at hand. , „
“ Take the machine and drive like h—to Waggaburra,
hissed the Baronet to the petroleur. There you will
see a pub, with a white lamp outside and a flower-pot in
the window. Bring brandy—brandy—brandy.
The victim emitted a long, despairing wail. ■
“ Hennessev’s ! ” she cried, closing her eyes again, and
the dark night grew' darker for the blackness of Sir
Thomas’ thoughts.
“Yarrum” remembers how McGinty
came to make his first lot of ensilage
McGinty’s daughter had been married to a South Coast
cocky, and there was a larjre party to celebrate the
event. All went well until after supper, when Mac and
the missus retired to rest in the next room. The dance
stillwent on, although many of the ladies had left and
quite a lot of the gents had to sit round and wait their
turns for partners. Some time before sunrise old Mac
appeared at the door in his evening attire and an-
nounced regretfully, “ Bhoys, I clane forgot about th
poor cows, an’ there is never a bit av sorghum cut for them.
Will some of ve w’ho are not dancing get away like good
fellows and knock down a bit ? ” Fourteen young bucks
sought out reaping-hooks and scythes and sallied forth
into the darkness. Then they all got to work and didn t
stop until thev had knocked down three acres—every bit
of greenstuff McGinty had for the coming winter. When
sunrise revealed the extent of their labors, McGinty ex-
ploded and refused to listen to consolation, reason or
advice, until young Casey suggested ensilage. Mac
thanked him brokenly for the suggestion, and getting
to work without delay, started in to bury the
whole crop. Casey generously helped him to P«
the job through, and when it was completed
pointed out to McGinty that he would need
some feed to carry on with. When Mac had thoroughly
grasped that fact, Casey said he had a standing crop he
wanted to sell and that Mac might as well take it. While
poor Mac was still trying to think it over Casey sold him
the stuff and departed. When he had been gone some
time, Mae suddenly remembered that Casey had been the
first one to volunteer to cut the sorghum, and had gone
to considerable trouble to find edged tools for all who
were willing to use them. Then Mac started wondering.
He has a great respect for Casey’s business ability now,
and whenever thev meet he regards Casey with a slow,
puzzled expression as if he were trying to come to a con-
clusion about something.
SUNNY CONNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With regard to Hill End’s claim to hold the world’s
longevity record, with an average of UJ3I „
last three years, below are given the figures for Sunny
Corner, which work out at an average of f or t i. e
considerably higher than the Hill End * v |«« e punier
same term. There were 26 adult deaths C or ne r
during the past three years, making a total of 1-930 jeans.
Of the 26 the youngest was 55 years, and the oldest 9-
years. —Daily paper.
Here Old Age sits and mumbles of the Past,
And drowsy days in slippers shuffle by ;
Here any’thing with life in it will last
Until the cows come home. To droop and die
Is quite impossible until you heap
Three score and fourteen years upon Time’s score ;
And even then you’re not allowed to sleep
Until you add the decimal—Point Four.
The weed of Reminiscence here grows rank,
And Youth is reckoned but of small account ,
In Memory’s dark, antiquated bank
Youth’s cheque—though only for a small amount—
Is valueless. To-morrow here is lead,
While Yesterday is red and gleaming gold ;
The saying terse, “ Cheer up ; y T ou’ll soon be dead,
Is hailed with nods by all the waiting Old.
No haggard undertaker lingers here
And peeps with speculative eyes around
To see who next will need a box and bier ;
You never hear the dull, remorseless sound
Of nails and hammer working through the night ;
These things are done elsewhere, for Rife and Heath
But rarely' meet in this warm spot to fight,
And he is bankrupt who is out of breath.
The green-haired graveyard sits upon the hill
And waits in gloomy silence, while the stones
Bleach in the sunshine, for the dead to fill
Its grassy spaces ; but defiant bones
Will not retire into the patient earth ;
They move about beneath the smiling sky,
And yawning Heath himself is moved to mirth
As slippered days and weeks and years go by.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any estate) accompany.
G. Mac: Thanks for letter, though it is rather
too lengthy forprint ... Wentworth : Hopeless.. . Kaled :
Judging by your screed, you have been drinking for a
long while, and are now a wreck and leading the pim-
pled life T.W.B. : Tremendous chronicle of small
beer, and who is it all about? His name appears as
Nehemiah Blot (or Smudge)... .The Sawdust King : Your
goat and man race doesn’t appeal to humans.... Nemo .
(1) Thk Bulletin is not advertising foreign countries.
Australia is big enough and good enough. There’s no
country in the world like it. (‘2) Thanks for offer, but we
have an office in Melbourne and a good man in
charge J.A.M. : Dad’s shave is not thrilling
L. Finch: Yes, we pay for accepted poetry.
We’re not paying for your “piece (self-composed). ...
A.J.M. : Trivial fond records Elingamarra : “Jingle
of two rhymes, mixed, in two measures un-
mixed,” carefully stored for use as a missile.. ..
H. Olive Drew: Lady who cuts off her lovers liana be-
cause be is six minutes late, somewhat too hasty for ordi-
nary wedded happiness. Moreover, your account of the
outrage has too much preface and scenery and things . .
X • Very clever, but what’s it all about ?. ..G. MeKnignt.
No demand for long descriptions of cow-slave s sea-
experiences. Also, “Fishing” is a vain thing.. ..I'reel
Merivale: Fig’s opinions, expressed with porcine ugliness,
on the sterilisation of undesirable humans don t help
much. Bather they bedaub a serious problem with un-
necessary uncleanliness... .EdMeryon : Expressive letter
that was like a dingo’s howl and a bush-fire and a „irl s
white face and other things, better fitted for museum
than newspaper.... Alec B. S. : That joke has no
business on earth : it died of senile decay years ago..
J. Thompson : Autobiography of male maid-of-al -work
ou«-ht to be interesting, but isn’t. Military jokes bound
to be stupid or chestnuts, and are... Tnurla : Wanted
the sacred fire, so we cremated it.. J. 0.8. : Inequality
of verses and contempt of metrical laws still a bar. ..
II O Sexton: Postcard with addition to MS. arrived,
but don’t remember MS... .Norman Wilson : Jim scow-
adventures of no interest W.M. : Your barmaid is an
unexciting divinity The Undersigned : Too long and
slight and commonplace The Big Mug : lainful
humor.... A.P. M.: Weepful and shaky verses about the
honest jockey who died young sympathetically buried with
the prodigy.... The Wasp: “ Final Samples cheerfully
passed out.. ..C.B.H. : Revised version of poem about
half-caste four-year-old doesn’t appeal to us ...K. VV.
Taylor : Letter all right. “Burdens mostly the oppo-
site. May use the other.... S. Symons : Thanks, but the
originals aren’t worth the pains Tahuna. Beery
cricketer’s troubles don’t interest....S. K. Collins.
Patched, not repaired W. 8.5.: Large collection of
small jokes.... A.T.K.: Rather heavy verse... .4 Es:
Uncouth “ rhvmes ” about Mars sent to that enterprising
planet C. W. Martin: No better... .Elingamarra :
“Derby Dan” and “Great Grey Road” jingle without
cr-rio or pepper—and that’s as bad as lamb without mint
sauce or mustard without beef or any other monstrosity.
J A.K.: Same old doss-house. Nobody ever seems to
strike any doss-house but this, with its frowsy actor who
recites the Seven Ages, and its numerous derelicts with a
past Isn’t there a doss-house somewhere with a few
budding geniuses in it?... .Sheila : Pathetic story about
the broken-legged gentleman who howled for eggs and
died because he got them, too soul-harrowing for this
paper. Also there is but small demand for poems
announcing that “ the young lambs frisk upon the grass
the birds sing in each tree.” If you could only get tie
lambs into the trees and have the birds baa-ing in the
grass, things would look morecheerful... George J. Cox .
“The Sacrifice,” old theme tamely t01d... .Veritas.
Small-beer chronicle... .B.B.: As you expected, of no use
to us A case of wooden hams to Yankeeland... W. I .
Madigan: Childish Oliver: Disappointing. ...John
O’Neill (Pirriroo) : Large confused mass of documents re-
ceived. You put a 2d. stamp on the outside to carry it
to us, so it cost us Is. 4d. fine. You enclosed Is. worth
of stamps for return, so evidently\you knew'the -d. stamp
wouldn’t carry it. Stamps confiscated. Letter put m
waste paper basket. Sketches thrown out of window.
Newspaper cuttings given to dog. Envelope burned
Artie : Know nothing of any intention on Randolph Bed-
ford’s part to enter tiie Anglican Church ; but don t see
whv he shouldn’t if he wants to. A. S. Tux f ord . Not
in our line. Forwarding as requested Tat. Yi d, in-
coherent yarn about love and murder and mixed mar-
riages and things in New York declined with consider-
able enthusiasm. . Jemima: When siveet seventeen
takes to rhyming it generally produces drivel, this is
also true oTsour s'evenfeen .. Drover = Bike and «« and
Mollv’s legs in one red burial blent....E. Whitfield
Child philosopher’s ruminations on the jetty kin J
thrown overboard.... M. Me.: One’s doggerel, _ and the
other is worse doggerel..: L.A.R. : “ Dreamers remins
us horribly of a nightmare a man once had. It made him
swear off sleep and he subsequently died.... Murray .
Dismal no hing....W. F. Key: “The Motor Hog’
mo e hopeless" than its melancholy predecessors..
GAY: Thanks ; noted. Drawing suggestion no good.
Wanta: Still a land-tax wouldn’t shift the beef-barons
out of that nor’-west country, as it’s leasehold and not
freehold. What Westralia will have to see to is that the
leases are only granted for short terms. . W. 1 • Key .
Not surprised to learn that your trombone fiend had the
door shut in his face in Heaven and Hell Tub Bulletin
as always, is on the side of the angels. . Knutsford:
Should make a satisfactorily hysterical tract Also, the
suggestion that drink-tainted parents shou d screw the
necks of their babies, for fear lest these should inheiit the
curse, might lead your disciples into trouble with a rope.
r’. YV'. Jay : You naturally would be pleased to see
Her after “centuries of lonely 50rr0w.”.... R. E- Irish:
Just a stanza of “ The Sea” :
Oh ! wretched creature ! How I hate thee .
Canst I ne’er be rid of thee ?
But you smile and reflect Heaven,
So your glistening dazzles me.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Inkpot: Might have been worthy of notice a few
decades ago when they were (comparatively) freshi ..
Bert R. : Slight variation of very old gag. Dia\un„
medium. Jest written in faint dim pencil like a light
that has gone 0ut.... P.J. H. : Two utterly hopeless. One
may do as suggestion Noon: Lacks point and thri
and other substances J.D.G. : Tvvoare old and
other is unsuitable for illustration ...XXX. Nogood ..
Franklin : Don’t want anybody s first sketch. Want
the 1 001st M J.S. : We hesitate to publish a corn-cure
est with one of Shakspeare’s grey-haired quotations
appended thereto. Try and imagine how wild you d be
if you were Shakspeare.


THE DELICATE QUESTION.
“Now, dear Alfred, will you let me put YOUR name in the hat and make the draw myself?”
HIGH
(OMHI^IO^SHIP
, The
DRfIWIKC,


THE GREAT DROUGHT.
AS TO THE FORBIDDEN CIGARETTE.
Very Junior Cadet: ” Well, alter all,
the pipe is the smoke for heroes.
WHEN THE GERMANS COME.
Bill Adams, of the Defence Forces r
“ I’m blowed, Jim, If them Dutch-
men ain’t a swlggln lager over there,
under our , very noses. Shall we let
drive the battery at ’em, or go over
under a flag o’ truce and jine ’em?”
The Carrie Nation of Australia—
or Jo Cook and the Canteen bcforej
explanation of the Act.
5Pi/Ti
jj,/ oRDO? ]
U.O.C.,refreshing at the horse-trough:
‘‘We’ll, if this isn’t getting down to
the level of the lower animals, I
don’t know what is!”
Jo Cook, later: “ I fear the
Act has been grossly
misunderstood. Do 1 make
myself clear now?”
A SOLDIER’S LETTER.
Dear Mother,—The whole camp has beeu stricken with a
mysterious epidemic. It has beeu attributed to the
' water. But do not weep for us. The doctors are
keeping us alive on stimulants.—Afi., Percy.
A WAR SONQ.
Just before the battle, mother,
1 was feeling rather queer;
But I don’t think I’d skedaddled
If I’d ’ad a glass o’ beer.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Rexona,
The Rapid Healer, is an ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-
fashioned ointments, which are very slow in their
action, Rexona speedily effects its cures after a
very few applications. Sold in triangular pots at
Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Chamberlain’s Tablets cleanse and invigo-
rate the stomach and leave the bowels in a healthy
condition.*
This year has been an eventful one in the
fields of discovery. But have you discovered
anything? If not, buy a current Lone Hand
and you will discover that it is a new Lone
Hand compared with past issues. And you will
discover that this all Australian magazine
exceeds in interest to Australians —because it is
built solely to interest Australians—any of the
imported periodicals.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The oldest auctioneer in N. S. Wales—
older even than the just-dead Morris Asher—is
Mr. J. T. Rowthorn, of Windsor, who took out a
license at the Windsor court house 52 years ago.
“Vulcan”: Bendigo (Vic.) produced a
promising beer champion, t’other day. In a local
police case, a witness admitted to absorbing 16
drinks at prosecutor’s expense during a short
afternoon. When a flabbergasted beak asked his
age, he said off-handedly, “ 18.”
Somewhere about the final chapter of
Melbourne’s old boot-trunk tragedy is being
written in the Austin Hospital for Incurables at
Heidelberg (Vic.). There the once well-known
Mrs. Radalyski is said to be lying sick unto death.
She must be almost the last of the boot-trunkers.
Dan O’Leary, whose dead body was lately
found on the road to the Tanami gold rush, some
45 miles out from Wyndham, was a game battler.
He served his time at Stillwell and Knight’s
Printery, in Melbourne, and a dozen years back
bought a paper at Donald (Vic.). He only ran
that for four years ; but they were strenuous, not
to say stormy, inasmuch as in that time he suc-
cessfully defended six libel actions. Prospecting
was just as exciting, and promised larger profits ;
but now, at 60, a kick from a horse ends it all.
Theo Kitchen, the 69-year-old soap and
candle manufacturer, of Melbourne, died the other
day. Theo, with his father and brothers to help
him, founded the big Yarra-side Kitchen firm away
back in the middle ’fifties, and ever since has been
supplying candles to the great unlit and soap to
the great unwashed. The late Kitchen was
methodical in business and Methodistical out of it.
No member of the congregation joined with more
sincerity than he in the singing of “Lead, Kindly
Light.”
John Thomas, said to be the sole survivor
of the first party that discovered gold in the Bal-
larat district (Vic.), is now on the old-age pension
list. “Old John” has for years been caretaker
and bell-ringer at the Buninyong Presbyterian
tabernacle; But the kirk at Buninyong, like
Buninyong itself, is nowadays mostly emptiness;
so there wasn’t a living left for the ancient in the
bell-ringing business.
Archdeacon Campbell, the North Queens-
land parson who has been battling to prove that
for every acre under sugar up that way there
ought to he three under cotton, has given up cir-
culating the collection plate so that he may toil
still harder for the new industry. A co. is being
pushed off to take over and extend his experi-
mental plantation ; and after a few months’ spell
in tripping to Europe, the archdeacon is coming
back to preach the whole gospel of cotton.
David Storey, State member for Randwick
(N.S.W.), has returned to the Assembly very
greyed and much shaken. Last session he was
buoyant and full of ambition, and had behind him
a compact body of Ministerialists who were weary of
Wadeand his juggling with the Chief Justiceship,
and deadly tired of the testy Chief Secretary, Wood.
When the present session opened, however, David
was a limp and ambitionless warrior, and presently
he took to his bed and there fought with a herd of
inward complications. All the devil has gone out
of him, and he is a perfectly tame hatter these
days.
The Oldest Inhabitant remembers another
pub :
Morris Asher, the ancient N.S.W. Parliamentarian who
died the other day, started a flour-mill at Albury, but
afterwards came on to Sydney, took out an auctioneer’s
license, and conducted sales in a wooden building which
stood on the corner of Park and Pitt streets, where now
is the Criterion Theatre. In that business he succeeded
an eccentric old identity, Henry D. Cockburn. Next to
Cockburn, standing off the road somewhat, was the Glas-
gow Hotel. It had been the residence of some magnate, but
in 1850 was supplied with a beer pump and a rum barrel,
and was opened by Michael Cohen. It underwent many
changes in name and landlord, until 1874, when
But, on second thoughts, The Bulletin can’t see
what this pub had to do with Morris Asher, so it
cuts the narrative short. At the same time, the
form of these old reminiscences arouses a certain
interest. They go to show: (1) That almost
everybody in old Sydney lived next to one cele-
brated pub and opposite another ; (2) that a man
then wasn’t so much himself as the person who
lived close to Smith’s drinkery or Jones’ hotel;
(3) that almost every existing building was once
the site of a pub; and (4) that almost everybody
once kept a pub.
Charles Mallen, who died suddenly in Ade-
laide the week before last, aged a month or two
under 90, built the Adelaide
brewery at Waverley
(N.S.W.) in 1874, on be-
half of a pushing S.A.
firm. He says in his re-
miniscences : “ I was
sent by Messrs. Simms
and Chapman to select
a position and build
a brewery. After
visiting the principal
towns, I decided
on the town of
Waverley, near Syd-
ney, and built there.
The Government
wadier was very in-
different at that
i 'v* u n °
suitable for brew-
j ng , causing me
to have water
carted from out-
side. I brewed
the first beer in
Decern ber, 1874,
and was very
successful.”
Back in Ade-
laide, he built
a brewery of
his own. The
veteran had
been a great
long-distance
runner, won
four S. A.
Waterloo
Cups with
his coursing
dogs, always
had a race-
horse or two
in train-
ing—and
never made
a bet in
his life.
COLONEL STANLEY, STATE COM-
MANDANT IN VICTORIA.
G. F. Richardson, who died lately at
Wellington (M.L.), was a civil servant once.
His job was in the Lands, in which he worked up
to be a surveyor. Then he went into politics and
private practice, and became Harry Atkinson’s
Minister for Lands, almost at once, and in turns
took four or five other portfolios. McNab, how-
ever, lifted him out of the Mataura seat in ’93.
He skied politics then and became president of
the M.L. Institute of Surveyors.
Fedor Augustus Kelling, who lately passed
out at Nelson (M.L.), arrived in Ward’s islands in
charge of an expedition of 200 German emigrants,
organised mainly by Count Rantzau, and shipped
off in 1844. Twelve years later he sat in Maori-
land’s first Parliament, and in 1863 went off back
to Europe as immigration agent for the Govern-
ment. He was many years German Consul in
Maoriland, and Emperor William I.—the pre-
sent Bill’s grandfather—presented him with the
Order of the Crown. Tho old man’s pastime was
chess, and his son, F. Kelling, of Wellington, is
now champion of the Dominion. Three days
before his death Fedor Augustus was still playing.
Chamberlain’s Tablets aid digestion, pro-
mote appetite, stimulate the liver, and keep the
bowels regular.*
INSULTING AN AMBASSADOR OF COMMERCE.
The time has Come when the status of a commercial traveller should be definitely defined. There are persons
selling matches who class themselves as commercial travellers. —News Item.
FIRST BAGMAN: “ ’Or ace, old boy, I’ve been grossly insulted by that person who sells matches!”
SECOND DO: “ Wot did the beggar do? ”
FIRST DO: “He said to me: 'Ows business, mate!’”
Robert Caldwell, S.A.’s fairly venerable
ex-politician, lias written his last poem. He
passed out a few days ago at the age of 65. So far
as is known his final effort was about the loss of
the Waratah. Caid well's poetns were innumer-
able; in fact, no occurrence within his radius was
properly finished until he had dashed off some-
thing concerning it. His style was entirely his
own, and he could leave it out at night without
anybody stealing it. All the same, he was im-
mensely popular as a man, and the country could
better have spared some men whose verses could
be spared a great deal worse.
By the Oldest Inhabitant; —
Mr. W. A. B. Gellibrand, of Hobart, died on Friday,
Nov. 5, aged 77 years. He was son of Joseph Tice Gelli-
brand who, on the establishment of the first Supreme Court
of Tasmania (or Van Diemen’s Land), was appointed
Attorney-General. Joseph Tice Gellibrand was one of
Batman’s syndicate to settle Port Phillip by purchasing
territory from the blacks, and he drew up the historic
conveyances. Soon after Batman had concluded his
treaty, Mr. J. T. Gellibrand and Mr. Hesse, another V. D.
Land lawyer, visited Port Phillip ana set but on horseback
for the Cape Otway ranges. They had a guide, Akers ;
but after wasting much good advice on the two obstinate
lawyers re the folly of invading Binghi’s stronghold, he
handed in his resignation. The two mounted legal men
are still missing, their fate being as much a mystery as
that of Leichhardt. ' In 1871 the son, Hr. W. A. B. Gelli-
brand, was elected to the Tas. Leg. Council, and con-
tinued to represent the Derwent for 28 years. He was
reputed to be exceedingly wealthy and during his life
time was said to have given away £BO,OOO in benefactions.
The brown man of Maoriland cultivated
much frill whilst Native Minister Jimmy Carroll
(“Taihoa” Tiini) held the Acting-Premiership,
and the frill hasn’t so far shown any signs of fray-
ing. T’other evening, the Wairarapa tribe kore-
roed long into the night; and next day “Taihoa”
Timi was offered the job of honorary bishop of the
Maori Church. It seems as if there isn’t any
limit to the wavs in which his countrymen can do
honor to tired Timi’s wonderful brand of utterly
weary exhaustedness.
Unwise men build houses and wise men
buy them after the builders are dead. Also un-
wise men construct great mansions which are to
become family seats, and their heirs go into
theatrical management, and live the hurried life
in flats and hotels, and sell the old, stately mau-
soleums for what they will fetch. So “Big”
Clarke, of Melbourne, built Cliveden, and spent
£91,000 on it, and Rupert Clarke, of the Clarke,
Meynell and Gunn firm, dashed it into the
market the other day, and sold it for £22,000.
Worst disgrace of all, the place is to become a
sort of dignified hash-tower.
The Pyramids, or something of the sort,
set Wesley Castles, an Australian dam-builder,
thinking about the lost art of digging and banking
dirt. At last he hit upon something that may
perhaps be older than Assyrian civilisation, but
hasn’t been visible for several thousands of years.
Overall and Overall, engineers, of Balmain,
Sydney, have just set up the machinery according
to Castles’ ideas, and the result is an exca-
vator and elevator calculated to make a canal
as quickly as a trench could be made with
ordinary pick and shovel and barrows.
The Castles contrivance consists of two steel
wheels, with a diameter of lift. 6in. and a depth
of 2ft., held in position by a steel shaft. Dipping
into the soil, from lin. to 7in., as adjusted, at the
side of each wheel, is a plough. Stretching out
30ft. is an arm, or elevator. A traction engine
supplies the motive power, and, as the monster
moves, the dirt is cleaned out of the furrow and
lifted along on the elevator and poured on the
embankment. In a continuous run of, say, five
miles the amount of mullock disturbed and evenly
deposited is something that makes the onlooker
marvel. The first machine is now working on the
irrigation canal at Narrandera (N.S.W.), and its
capacity is estimated at 4000 cubic yards per day.
John Norton of Sydney has rushed
into the Federal arena with a burst of
fireworks, and is a candidate for the Senate.
John’s principles are to the effect that a
bloated Commonwealth is standing with both
feet on the stomach of the Ma State, and
should be pushed off at once. Also he thinks that
Ma should be picked up and dusted.
Miss Randell, a lady missionary back in
Adelaide from China, was presented with a
“processional umbrella” on leaving. She says
that, as far as she knows, the Empress is the only
other woman to possess this sort of gingham, and*
the honor attaching to the article is alleged to be
immense. Anyway, as a guarantee of good faith,
she has a brolly which is made of crimson satin, is
about seven feet high, and has what stands for
the “royal arms” embroidered on it in gold.
When she returns, it is going to be carried in
front of her on state occasions. But whether that
will be an advantage remains to be seen ; for just
when the lady was unshipping the parachute for
Adelaide’s inspection, word came through by
cable that a male missionary, ceremonially march-
ing ahead of some soldiers in China, had been
mistaken for a general and shot by rebels or other
bad characters.
“Trotter” : KrukofF, a Russian, will be
remembered as having been all over Australia a
year or two ago. He was deputed by the Czar to
examine into Australian agriculture, and did his
work thoroughly. His book is just to hand.
Being lettered in English on the back, I
put it under my arm and took it home
to read. But, alack ! it is all in Russian,
Choctaw-looking small capitals turned upside
down. There are 187 photos., which give you a
good idea of the book, 500 pages, and covering the
pastoral business, sugar, refrigeration, etc., etc.,
as well as mere wheat-growing.
“ Billem ” deposits a barrow-load of inter-
rogation marks :
James Ashton, long-time M.L.A., sometime Secretary
for Lands and Honorary Minister, and of late M.L.C. of
N.S.W., has mysteriously dropped out of the daily press,
and his present public whereabouts is never mentioned.
A few months ago he quietly and unostentatiously left off
being an unpaid colleague of Weighed, Wooed, and Wad-
dell, and public print and public remark know him not.
Why has he blotted himself off the premises? Is he in
Japan, or does he call himself Smith? In July, 1894, Ashton
ran a newspaper at Hay. He wrote and printed so much on
land that he landed himself in the Assembly. The
electors said, “ At last Parliament will give us this day
our daily land talk.” They were not disappointed. James
Ashton never lost an opportunity to get on to land legis-
lation. He was earnest and heart-breaking, pathetic and
prayerful, serious and sermonising. This, with a copious
flow of sonorous platitudes, captivated the S. M. Herald,
which elevated him to the notch of an authority. In
quick time he had a paper-made reputation. Then James
Ashton was sober, respectable, dignified, courteous and
amiable. Also, he was big, broad-shouldered, large-
headed and thiek-haired. He was not unlike Parkes
before Parkes disguised himself in long beard and flowing
mane. Premier Reid offered to provide him with a port-
folio, but he was irresponsive. When Federation was
inaugurated, and the Reid party wanted a new
leader, there was a call for Ashton, but he
would not heed it. Again, when Opposition-Leader
Charles Alfred Lee wearied of the job, Ashton was men-
tioned with Carruthers. The morning press wanted him
badly, but he shied once more, and Joseph got the
reversion of the State Premiership. Ashton joined him
as Secretary for Lands, and remained in office till Car-
ruthers retired. In the reconstructed Wade Ministry he
represented the Government in the Upper House, with-
out portfolio, for about 20 months. Then, mysteriously
rid of responsibility, he slipped out at the back door and
was swallowed up like a long beer on a hot day. I want
to know who swallowed him.
SMALL FRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thusfar Mr. Peake does not appear to be greatly
opposed to a 20 or 25 years’ limitation to the agreement,
though naturally he prefers that the agreement should
go into the Constitution just as it stands. It is believed,
however, that the South Australian Premier has a plan
of his own for the solution of the difficulties of the
rederal Fusion party.— Melbourne Age.
He regarded the issue as beyond party politics, so it
mattered not what party such candidate belonged to, he
(Mr. Kidst.on) would do what he could to secure his
defeat. He believed the original agreement, if adopted,
would give financial security to Australia.— Melbourne
Age.
Peake?.. . Peake?. .. Who is this person Peake?
What is this man that he should seek
To raise his unimportant squeak
Anent that legislative freak,
The Fuse ?
Why does he chase it to its lair
And strive to stroke the creature’s hair?
What is this person doing there?
And why in thunder should he air
His views?
His views on Fed’ral politics—
What warrant has this man to mix
In this affair and shy loose bricks
At Commonwealth concerns? Such tricks
Are cheek.
k Cool cheek ! If he support or not
This thing or that or all the lot
Who hears or heeds or cares a jot?
What standing has this person got?
Who’s Peake?
This Kidston of the wagging chin—
Who’s he? Why this unseemly din
Of his ! Who knows, or cares a pin
For all his weird complaining in
Our midst, on
Concerns that one might well suppose
Are far be.vond him ? Yet he gof-s
Clean fanti; vowing he’ll oppose
This man or that. Who minds? Who knows ?
Who’s Kidston ?
Bill Brown—what has he got to say?
John Jones, Jim Johnson—where are they?
And Black, and Green, and White, and Grey?
Why don’t they rise and yell away?
Stand out!
Stand out, ye honest folk, and speak.
Ye have the right—as much as Peake.
Like Kidsron, you’ve the right to seek,
To interfere. Rise up and squeak
And shout.
Throw out your chests the same as they,
And let us hear about your way
To scotch the Fuse and end the fray.
Let all electors have a say.
’Twere well.
We’re sick of hearing Peakes and all
The Wades and Kidstons shriek and squall,
The Moores and Murrays yell and bawl ;
Come Smiths and Browns and shout and call
Like Hell.
But where—O pardon this lament—
Where is Australia’s Parliament?
Where are those stern, strong men we sent
Into the House to represent
Our views ?
Alas ! their talents they employ
To pacify small fry whose joy
Is e’er to pester and annoy,
And even threaten to destroy
The Fuse.
Alas ! they have nor strength nor will
To bid the barking pack be still,
But tremble for their seats until
They daren’t resent the howling shrill,
Nor flout
The yelping of each small State pup.
Our brave, strong men are forced to sup
Small beer from out a humble cup,
For, lo ! our “ statesmen ” all are up
The spout.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


$ v> r i
sssn
•tt
- i'
s
r-
H
sat#
■
1
-I
af
r
.M
a
r
m
i
I
"
m
The Champion
First Grade
Gold Leaf
Darß Leaf
Virginian
Cut and Plug.
loz. j
2oz. j
Tin
4oz. Plug


Walter Bradley & Co.
284- George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining 1 Hoorn Suites, with
■ latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, -Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
inay be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price— 3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal. . .
Forward Orders to THE RIDQWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Nipped in the Bud.
A cold, cough, or influenza can he nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for coughs and colds. Price Is. 6d.
and 3s. #
CAUSE AND CURE
DF NEURALCIA.
The Trouble Begins With
Weak Thin Blood.
«
A Great Sufferer With the Com-
plaint, Tells How She Was
Cured.
Why do so many people have neuralgia? In
most cases because the blood has become thin and
weak. The nerves get all their nourishment
through the blood, and if the blood is thin it is
deficient in nerve building material, and some
form of nervous trouble results. When the nerves
of the face are attacked, the trouble is known as
neuralgia, a tingling, burning, spasmodic pain
very often agonising.
To cure neuralgia one must go to the root of
the trouble, and tone up and strengthen the
nerves through the blood.
Because Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a blood
builder and nerve tonic they have effected some .
remarkable cures of neuralgia.
The case of Miss Olive Matthews, Piper Street,
near King Street, Broken Hill, is an excellent
illustration of how they cure this complaint. She
says :
“I used to suffer greatly from neuralgia. It
would start witih shooting pains in my h'ead, and
would spread tb my face, for two or three days.
I’d feel the pajf on one side of the face, then it
would leave tKfere and settle in the other side.
The pain was simply distracting. I’d feel it
sometimes in ray left hand, and when I’d waken
in the morning the fingers would be so stiff I
couldn’t use them till I’d been up and about for
awhile. The neuralgia generally came on about
11 o’clock each morning and would last till I went
to sleep at night. I dreaded putting my hands
in cold water, as this generally brought the pain
on. My teeth seemed to be all of them aching
violently, and sharp twinges would go through
every nerve in my face, and I d get headaches
across the top of the head. Some days I’d have
to go and lie down or go to bed. Nearly every
day in these two months I had the pain and felt
thoroughly wretched with it till I tried Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. All the nerves of the face
used to feel tender and sore, and every now and
then a fresh spasm would dart down the jaws
just like a stabbing feeling and then dart up into
the side, of the temples, then it would stop for a
minute and start off again worse than ever; but
before I’d taken the first boxful my nerves felt
ever so much stronger and the attacks began to
wear off, and with two boxes the neuralgia was
quite cured, and I have never had it since. My
sister also was greatly benefited for an attack of
anaemia.” , . . , ..
You can judge the shopman s opinion of you if
he tries to sell you anything else when you ask
for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Those “just as
good ” remedies are never offered unless he thinks
the customer easy to gull. The price is 2s. 9d.
per box ; six boxes 15s. 3d., of all dealers or from
The I)r. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia,
Lfd., Sydney.* '
This Elastic Truss
gd
Elastic
Truss
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
i'stheacmeofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
th<i required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgjcal Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE .gunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE APOSTLES OF GLOOM.
The Public Questions Committee’s report made refer-
ence to the increased Sunday train service, especially on
the Pakenham line. The Lord’s Day observance com-
mittee was instructed to wait on the Minister of Railways
and point out the evil effect likely to accrue from this
system of encouraging Sabbath desecration. The com-
mittee was also empowered to take any additional action
that was deemed necessary. A lengthy discussion was
held on the question of Sunday golf, which, it was
alleged, was becoming a grave evil in many parts of Mel-
bourne.
Chamberlain’s Tablets regulate the stom-
ach, liver and bowels, and keep them in a healthy
condition.*
The Bureau of Agriculture Bill has suffered
some grievous treatment in the Senate, and its
funeral is generally expected. It only passed
through on the second reading by two votes ; but
when it came up again for discussion the other
day, Clemons (Tas.) and ’Siah Symon (S.A.) were
present to stiffen the Opposition. The result was
that it was thrown out by 16 votes to 14. Evi-
dently the cantankerous Symon and one or two
others are inclined to make the Fuse’s life unbear-
able in the Senate, and cause it to yearn more
than ever for the end of the session.
From the Gallery :
Speaker Salmon’s hold on the House of Reps., never too
strong, grows weaker daily, and he will be lucky if the
session closes without a first-class row. He was, of
course, the Fusion party’s nominee—and he seems to for-
get it with difficulty. On the afternoon when Deakin
moved the absurd Cup adjournment—absurd because
4.30 was an impossible hour ; it should have been 7.45 or
the usual time, 3 p.m.—one was irresistibly reminded of
the gentle yet firm way the late Speaker held his House.
Now nobody seems to care much what he says or does,
or how he says or does it; and, unless his attention is
specifically drawn, Salmon seems to care less than any-
one else.
Colonel Ryrie, Tory candidate for Wer-
riwa (N.S.W.), who seems to be training to be the
biggest joke in the coming Federal campaign,
states that he is in favor of all sorts of State
Frights and against consolidation of the public
debts, compulsory military training and an Aus-
tralian navy. The reason why he is against the
last is that this is such a wretched, hopeless
country that “an Australian navy can never
increase so as to be formidable” —never, not even
in 1000 years. Why on earth Ryrie wants to be
in the Parliament of such a hopeless land he
doesn't say. Perhaps he thinks that he is such a
hopeless being himself that it is just the sort of
hopeless job to suit him.
A Fu.sionist is a queer animal. It he cuts
away from the Federal Fuse and declines to
follow his leaders in carrying out an unauthorised
and one-sided agreement to pay the State
Treasurers 255. per head for all time, lie is a
traitor and a person of no principle. But if he
happens to be a follower of the Murrav-Graham
State Fusion in Victoria, and declines to carry
out, not a secret agreement, but his and their
election pledges, by supporting a land-tax, then
he is a sturdy independent, a dissenter from a
caucus-ridden section and a right-thinking cove.
At least that is how the Tory press regards
Fusionists these days.
“ Spud Miner ” writes of a defunct quod :
The Kilmore (Vie.) gaol, which was sold recently to the
Kilmore dairy factory for £3OO, cost £IO,OOO to build in
the early ’sixties. YVhen it was a brand new jug it was
not very well supported ; and when it was a middle-aged
coop there were hardly enough lodgers to make ends
meet; and when it was an old cage business was so bad
that the boss packed up his handcuffs and cat-o’-nine- tails
and left. The past 20 years the big prison has been closed.
Power, the bushranger, boarded at the establishment for
a little time ; but, finding it too quiet, he cleared out.
Ned Kelly was also an inhabitant within the bluestone
tolbooth ; but that was in his younger days, before he
bushranged and became famous. Nowadays the Victorian
police hardly ever capture a notorious criminal, and un-
less they wake up and do,something a lot more gaols will
have to be shut. Indeed, there is a vague idea about
shutting all the gaols and having the prisoners boarded
out in hash-towers.
Judge Heydon, hearing a case in the
N.S.W. Arbitration Court in reference to the all-
pervading improver, made these few remarks
I was reading an article only yesterday in which the
writer dealt with the cost of upkeep and manning of the
navies of the world, and pointed out what a low position
Great Britain occupied in the scale. He gave the reason
for this, rightly or wrongly, that the skilled trades of the
Mother Country are now so intensely protected by their
provisions as to apprenticeship that it is exceedingly diffi-
cult for a boy to get into any skilled trade.
It ought, one would think, to work out quite the
other way. If boys are not allowed to learn trades
as alleged, then the number of young men who,
for want of anything better to do, have to rush
into the army and navy must be immense. And
that should make defence cheap and abundant
instead of dear and scarce. The learned Heydon
might look at this aspect of the case with his other
eye.
When lou Ward got back to Maoriland
from London it was announced with a loud whoop
that he had got the loan of another million ; also
he didn’t have to pay a penny for brokerage, such
was the rush to oblige him. It read wonderfully
well, but now Some interfering person has been
asking Ward when he has to pay the money back,
and all Ward can do is wave a lordly hand
and say that he didn’t borrow it for any fixed
term. Apparently, therefore, the great lou
I person has simply borrowed the money on
call; and a Treasurer who is liable to be
dropped in upon at any moment with a re-
quest for a million or two is saving tip some
excitement for himself.
General Gordon made the usual discovery
when he visited Bathurst (N.S.W.) on November
4 to inspect the local voluntary militia. The
muster was so poor that the irate General threat-
ened to reduce Bathurst to the level of half a
company. It wasn’t wholly the fault of the
blessed voluntary troops ; the employers wouldn’t
let them off the chain so that they could attend.
Probably if it had been an invasion instead of a
visit from a friendly commander, they would have
refused just the same. The employers’ idea is
that all battles should be fought on public holi-
days.
Apparently Melbourne hardly knows that
it possesses a City Council. At any rate, one
member in each of the eight wards of the munici-
pality retired the other day, according to regula-
tion ; and each submitted himself for re-election,
according to habit ; and the whole eight were
returned unopposed, according to tradition. It
is no earthly use for Melbourne to call to its
council to do something. The council is re-elected
just the same even if it does nothing; so what is
the use of it doing anything ?
Candid statement by S. M. Herald in its
leader (4/11/’O9): —
The Legislative Council represents the pastoral in-
terests in a special way, because not only are prominent
pastoralists members of it, but because the interests of
PROPERTY have been given paramount consideration
when vacancies have been filled.
And this is the House which alleged Labor mem-
ber Dacey recently said he preferred to the adult-
suffrage-elected Senate!
BACKYARD EXTENSIONS.
Yass-Canberra is not an ideal site. Except for a small
area the soil is barren, the scenic setting is merely that
of a poor type of Australian bush, the rainfall is deficient,
and the water supply for a large city inadequate. The
railway, for which an easement has been granted to Jer-
vis Bay, will run through uninhabited, because unin-
habitable, country, and will therefore be always a source
of expense. . . . Nevertheless, Parliament in its wisdom,
after repeated efforts to choose a site, has settled upon
this one. . . . The site, though not the best possible, will
undoubtedly serve its purpose,, and there can be no ex-
cuse for further delaying the completion of the transfer.
Ihe Arqus, amiably.
Ma Wade’s Melbourne Friend: “'Uv course,
dearie, I knows quite well it ain't such a
pictureskew an furtile dominyun as th'
’orrid Commonwealth would 'arc liked for ’is
dwellin' -place ; but, still, it do be valliable, in-
asmuch as it do be a fine addishun to yor
*owl-run, ain’t it 1 ”
The Freetrade Englishman seems these
days to have become the cheap laborer and black-
leg and strike-breaker of Europe. A few weeks
ago it was Sweden which had an industrial dis-
turbance, and promptly the cheap unemployed
Englishman was imported in droves. Last week
the news came that the Dago was on strike at
Modena, Genoa and 'Milan, and that 1000
Englanders were going over to take the Dago’s
job. The evil has become so great that at a recent
international labor conference the English dele-
gates were asked if it wasn’t possible to do some-
thing to prevent the unemployed John Bull per-
vading Europe in a strike-breaking capacity. The
British workman emigrates to Germany a good
deal these days, and he is learning quite a lot of
new languages and seeing a heap of new countries.
All official womenkind are wondering
whooc husband is to be squeezed into the High
Commissioner job. The Forrest stocks have
fallen of late, and poor George Reid is right off
the market, as they say at the Stock Exchange.
If High Court Justice Barton were stronger in
health and income he would be almost sure of the
billet, for his claims are warmly supported. His
wife is a refined woman who talks little and reads
a lot—and is patriotic. It seems to have suddenly
occurred to the political world that a High Com-
missioner’s qualifications should include a
patriotic wife. Which explains, perhaps, the
fact that a whisper of “Deakin” is heard at
many tea-tables. If the women had the handling
of the appointment they would thrust it upon the
Deakins.
Another cry for Socialism and plenty of it
appeared in Melbourne Age a day or two ago.
It was from the Willaura (Vie.) Farmers’Ass.,
and was to the effect that the fire insurance com-
panies were charging larger rates for the insurance
of crops in one district than in another. The letter
went on to say : “If the companies cannot see
their way clear to do away with these-oppressive'
different, farmers should agitate for State fire in-
surance.” Which is a fragment that Will be
carefully recorded in this paper’s museum of
curiosities. Farmers, as a rule, are the loudest
and most ignorant denouncers of Socialism ; but
when they feel the teeth of Private Enterprise
they outvie T. Mann in their cry for State inter-
ference.
“ F.C.,” from Melbourne :
So much has been said about the absurdity of propos-
ing to put a torpedo boat together at so .impossible a
place as Melbourne that the people of Williamstown
got wild lately and captured Defence Minister Cook.
Having got him, they took him down at a run
to the naval depdt, where he was considerably
astonished at what he saw. Cook has been nine
years on Yarra-side now and has scarcely been a busy
man all the time, and he had never seen thedepOt before.
Yet some considerable works have been undertaken there.
Then he vtas rushed out to Point Gellibrand in a torpedo
boat, and shown what is claimed to be an ideal site for a
Commonwealth dockyard, and was impressed some more.
It may not be the best site in Australia—for instance; the
inner harbor at Albany (W.A.) takes a lot of beating—but
it has at least one tremendous advantage over other
advocated sites, in that it is almost absolutely safe from
attack by an enemy’s warships, whereas there are places
where some persons would like to put such yards that
could be shelled at leisure from the open sea. No enemy
could get through Port Phillip Heads if the entrance was
decently defended, and the gun that can carry from the
Southern Ocean to Williamstown hasn’t been built yet.
The Federal Parliamentary picnic to the
present end of the transcontinental railway at 1
Oodnadatta—it was away from Adelaide for four
days of hard travelling—knocked the bottom out
of the Deviation party’s story as to the existing_
line being out of order. Lovat Fraser.(represent-
ing London Times) told the Adelaide dailies of
Nov. 2: —
I have never known a smoother or easier running line.
We travelled up to 45 miles an hour, and the train
ran as smoothly and well as it would on the best per-
manent way in the world. . .-. I was greatly surprised
at the character of the country passed through.
I had- , pictured the whole run as one through
flat, ar. countrv. As a matter of fact, we were never
out of Sl ght of mountains, and up to Hergott Springs we
were in the midst of good saltbush country. I greatly
enjoyed the run through the splendid wheat country. I
have' never seen finer wheat-growing land in the best
districts of the Punjaub. . . . The transcontinental rail-
way is a good business proposition, and if the Federal
Parliament is not disposed to complete it at an early date,
I firmly believe that it would pay South Australia to do
it herself.
The Fused Government’s proposed amend-
ment of the Constitution to allow of the taking
over of all the State debts—not merely those
which existed at the commencement of the com-
monwealth—is a fine idea. At the same time it is
a very simple idea—one that any politician woul
have been equal to. The staggering question is
how to take these debts over so that the htate
which only owes £45 per inhabitant shall nave a
fair deal when its liability is lumped
with that of the State which owes £7B
per inhabitant. In short, it is a pio-
blem of consolidating six men who range
from 6ft. to 4ft. high so that they
will all be Sift. high. The Govern-
ment would be well advised if it offered
a reward of £5OOO for the ideal scheme.
It might get a plan which would save
it many millions, and the country would
get a liberal education in finance while
chasing the reward. At present the
Treasurer, when he wants outside
financial advice, consults old, stereo-
typed bank managers ; but as likely as
not the man with the_ real idea is a
mere junior clerk, and the Ireasurer
doesn’t consult junior clerks.
In Australia we let the alleged
Jap pearl-diver wander round the coast
taking soundings and making charts,
as he has been doing for months past on
the Queensland coast. But inJapan, as
a writer to the Kobe Chronicle has
just complained, instead of signboards telling the
traveller which track to take, a notice strikes his
eye every few hundred yards warning him of the
penalties incurred for “surveying, photographing
or noting the features of land and sea.” And the
penalties mostly start with gaol and end with the
emphatic kiek-out from the country.
The Fused Government hangs on pre-
cariously, like the person halfway down who
gathered samphire. It was defeated last week by
the casting vote of the chairman over its financial
agreement with the State Premiers, and is now
waiting for its colleague Foxton to arrive from
England in the hope that his vote may put things
straight again. It is a precarious sort of life—a
constant tottering on the edge of greased preci-
pices—and the Fuse wears a haggard look these
days.
When your children are naughty and
nattering, give them a dose of Chamberlain’s
Tablets; they will soon be well and happy.*
A START!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cr. Richardson (Barwon South), in supporting the
recommendation of the Municipal Association of Victoria
that a Main Roads Board be constituted, said that the
proposed annual appropriation of £150,000 was only a
start. He hoped that later on they would receive
£500,000 annually from the State.
Cr. Kerr (Fern Tree Gully) suggested that the grants
proposed, of whatever sum, should be made in addition
to the existing subsidies to municipalities.— News item.
Only a start !
More in the future—
Thousands and hundreds of thousands, millions and tens
of millions!
Propputy, at the Treasurer’s doorway,
Cringeth for alms !
Crying :
“ Alms for the Fatman !
Alms !
Give unto us Money, give to us coin, splosh, ‘ brass,' or
boodle !
Behold, we are greatly distressed.
The land is ours, and the fatness thereof —
Yet we lift up our bleat before men and are unashamed,
the Niagara of our tears descendeth upon tlje public
doormat !
The deluge of our eloquence poureth through the Trea-
surer’s keyhole and washeth about like a great sea.
Ours is a Voice Militant,
A Howl Imperative !
Propputy demandeth its rights—yea, and everybody
else’s rights!
For it hath a theory of its own as to how the world should
be governed ;
And these are the signs thereof:
That unto two or three, or the families of half a dozen, or
unto the descendants and collaterals of half a dozen,
should all the earth be given ;
That the People, being those unrelated to the said sacred
Half-Dozen, should be a mere Mob or Multitude ;
-And that the same should stand beyond the fence, with
pockets and stomachs empty !
And that the People should be swift to grovel.
And in all things be reverent and humble ! ”
This is thesTheory Beautiful.
This is the Commandment of Fat,
And thereof are Crs. Kerr and Richardson.
Behold how they come down from the mountain top,
bearing the tablet of a New Law—a Law, howbeit,
that hath no connection with the 25th chapter of
• Leviticus and the 23rd verse thereof.
For the same speaketh thusly,
Saying “ Behold, the land shall not be sold for ever.”
Which is false doctrine and pernicious teaching.
Yea, which is impious, immoral, disloyal, blasphemous,
sinful, wicked, seditious, and generally tendeth to
the subversion of the Hempire.
Hearken therefore unto the twain Apostles—unto St.
Richardson and unto St. Kerr.
For these are the prophets in whom Propputy doth
rejoice, and whose words are words of Wisdom.
For these have the Right Conception of the State.
Of the State as backsheesh-dispenser!
As bribe-distributor !
As shekel-filcher !
As Filler of Propputy’s sacred Purse !
Are not the creeds of ancient time abased before it, and
the gospel of Leviticus (remember the chapter and
the verse) humbled unto the dust ?
Yea, verily !
Wherefore let us exult,
And Make a Start!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


THE LIPP PIANO
.
SI
m
m
Has a quality and individual-
ity all its own.
Its tone is pure and rich,
its toucH light, and its con-
struction an example of
Highest grade worKmanship.
jz?
We Have a fine display of
these Pianos, and guarantee
them to stand true in any
climate.
JZ?
Catalogues and particulars
of easy terms free on appli-
cation.
W. H. PALING (&L CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ana at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE!
Thus George Oldham, one of the big
Glebe Island (Sydney) carcase butchers, who has
just returned from the Cold Old Country :
There is no doubt about the bad time the farmer is
having in England. On all sides I heard complaints that
the rents they were forced to pay for their land, to-
gether with taxes, were such that they could not possibly
make a living. When it comes to paying rents of £2 and
£3 and more per acre, together with taxes, you can
understand it. I think that next year it will be found
that still more English farmers will give up breeding
sheep, and turn their attention to something else. While
I was there I noticed plenty of estates which years ago
were dotted with tenants, but which now had hardly one
upon them. In Ireland things are a little better than
in England, because a man can buy a bit of land there.
Missing: Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM ARTHUR CHARMAN
please communicate with D. P. Carey, Solicitor,
Rockhampton, Queensland.
Legal Notices.
IN the Estate of CATHERINE MAIN (nee
McINTYRE) late of Ipswich in the State
of Queensland widow deceased intestate.
PERSONS claiming to be NEXT OF KTN of
the above-named deceased who died at
Ipswich Queensland on the 31st October 1908 or
to be the legal personal representative of such of
the said next of kin as are now dead are requested
to send particulars of their claims to the Curator
of Intestate Estates Brisbane in the State of
Queensland not later than the Ist day of June 1910.
F. W. MOLE,
Deputy-Curator of Intestate Estates,
Treasury Buildings, Brisbane.
sth November, 1909.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, at 8.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OP THE SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the Play of the Moment,
THE CHEAT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, for Six Performances Only,
THU SILVER KING.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AT 8.
1 jr. C. WILLIAMSON’S : - - -
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Most Melodious of Musical Comedies,
A COUNTRY GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s. • PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors : Clyde Meynell and John Gunn.
A TREMENDOUS TRIUMPH.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
IN ...
Shakspeare’s Tragedy,
OTHELLO.
Day Sale, White Rose.
Plan, Elvy's.
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. .. Edward Branscombe.
Business Manager .. W. Hooton-Smith.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
SHORT FAREWELL SEASON ONLY of the Famous
SCARLIiT TROUBADOURS
(from London).
Complete Change Programme Wednesdays & Saturdays.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Early Doors, Stalls and Famih
Circle, 6d. extra. Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
I*HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s fid.
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICT CJBES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is fid, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
BIJOU PICTURE PALACE
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manatrer—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
FRED CURRAN. DOLLY HARMfeR.
THREE TRAPNELL SISTERS & BROTHER GEORGE.
BROWN and ROBINSON. GUEST and NEWLYN.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS, and AUSTRALIA’S
LITTLE TICH.
BERTHA STUART. HASSAN.
MR. IRVING SAYLES. MR. FRED BLUETT.
MR. 808 LLOYD. MISS NELLIE POWER.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Palinsr’s.
Opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
ATHMORE GREY in the Salome Dance.
WILLIAM ROBYNS, Basso Vocalist.
FRANKO PIPER, Banjo Expert.
ROLAND GEORGE, Musician.
CAPTAIN WINSTON’S Performing Seals.
GWENNIE HASTO, Comedienne and Dancer.
MRS. HARRY SHINE, Mezzo Soprano.
CHAS. J. JOHNSON, Champion Cake Walker,
THE WHEELERS, Trick Cyclists.
Plan at Allan’s. £3T PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Andbrson.
EVERY EVENING, j t - \-| r .
BLAND HOLT’S AMUSEMENT GO.
in the Picturesque Military Drama,.
ON K OP THE BEST.
Popular Prices —35., 2s. and One Shilling.
* Box-Plan
Amusements
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
-pH EAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 13,
Messrs. MEYNELL & GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
—IN—
THE GIRL BEHIND the COUNTER
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
NELLIE STEWART in
ZAZA.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS IN MELBOURNE.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
Glaciarium,
Lessees
MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
; J.4.N.TAIT S
PItTURES
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS* Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
E S T’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
VV THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES ™ EB 0 |? T ALL .
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices —1/6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D. C. 1/-
WIRTH BROS.’ AMPHITHEATRE,
VVIRTHS’ PARK, PRINCES BRIDGE,
MELBOURNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS AND TWO MATINEES of
WIRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS,
THE FRANTZ FAMILY, Society Acrobats.
DATAS, The Memory Marvel. THE'SPANISH
BULL-FIGHT. THE RIDING HORSE, etc.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Gallery, Is. Reserved Seats 45., at
Glen’s. Children under 10 half-price, except to Gallery.
’ S OLYMPIA
PARK, PRINCES BRIDGE,
MELBOURNE.
THE PICTURE PAVILION PAR EXCELLENCE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8,
the Pre-eminent and Perfect
KING’S PICTURES.
“ Superior to All.”
A Superb Proa-ramm- of Subjects changed every week.
Nightly at 8. Matinees, Wed. & Sat., and All Holidays.
w
IR T H
WIRTHS’
FITZ’S
Genuine Folding
PANAMAS.
Thoroughly
Bleached.
*0
Post Free
Anywhere
12/6
FITZGERALD
BROS.,
North Melbourne.
A SMALL BRASS BAND IN YOUR POCKET.
The
MOPHOtffc
Latest musical novelty.
Mouth Oman
and Drum combined.
i THE DRUMOPHONE
‘You can play it without
a teacher.
A Minature Band.
Superior mouth or-
gan, 20 reeds, brass
plate, and complete
drum outfit. With this novel attachment (three spring
keys, giving kettle-drum effect) the latest marches,
cake walks, two steps, etc., may be played on the
mouth organ with drum accompaniment The effect
is unique. ORGANIZE A DRUMOPHONE BAND;
The Greatest Musical Fun Maker.
1 Drumophone, 3'3, post free anywhere.
6 Drumophones 18/-, post free anywhere.
Send Postal Note to
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229 COLLINS Si..
MELBOURNE.
PUPTURE Treatment
and..
CURF.
How I cured myself of a severe Rupture of many
years’ standing-, without truss, bandages, or surgical
operation. Simple home treatment. Pull particulars
and treatment, per mail 10s., postal note or money
order. Personal interview, evenings 7-9. Mention
this paper when writing.
J. D. RAMSAY, 9S Darghan St., Glebe, Sydney.
ALWAYS SHARP
AUTO STROP
Safety RAZOR
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND EFFICIENT.


Charles Heidsieck
HEIH S
EXTRA DRY
y &
FINEST EXTRA Q?
DANDRUFF—A COMMON COMPLAINT,
Dandruff is such a common complaint that people are
apt to overlook its importance as a danger signal pointing
to well-established scalp disease. Those who neglect
its warning eventually lose all the beauty and luxuriance
of their hair.
The Hygeia Treatment, as practised by Mrs. Cowling,
is always successful in curing dandruff, no matter how
long standing. Mrs. Cowling is a hair specialist who
has studied her profession under the best authorities
in Europe and America ; her treatment is prescribed
for each patient according to his or her needs. She
emphatically discourages the use of the many adver-
tised tonics on the market, which do no good and
often harm, and cost much more in the long run than
a specialist’s fees.
Heraddressis—Mrs. Cowling, Dept. B, Hygeia Institute,
Ocean House, opposite Government Savings Banks
Moore Street, Sydney ; and she gives free consultation,
everyday but Saturday, between 2.15 and 4.45 ; or, by
appointment, on Wednesday between 6 and 7. Those
who cannot call should write to her.
R°BII
3f)
■* ROiSUR
1 had a most awful day
yesterday, deah! —went to the
match —didn’t enjoy it a bit —
the wind gave me a racking
headache and 1 felt so done up
when 1 got home that 1 had
to lie down for an hour or so.
liowever, after a while 1 managed
to take a cup of tea, and that
put me right.
Why, tea’s absolutely the best
thing in the world for an
ordinary headache! —drink a cup
of Rob u r tea steaming hot-r—
-then lie down for half-an-hour
and Oh —that reminds me!
Mother told me to bring a pound
of the No. 1 Grade home with
me —for goodness sake don’t let
me forget it—for there’s not a
pinch in the house.
The Block Gill.
QUALITY-BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Novkmber 9, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
The optimistic face, at its highest development,
has been seen of late between the collar and hat of
the hon. treasurer of the charity ball. Any charity
ball given in Sydney, which city is immensely
fond of dancing out the value of its charity money,
is threatened with success. Big cheques are the
rule, and they are numerous as well as big, and
they are handed over on a lordly dish
while the hon. secretary gives way to
deep emotion. These few remarks lead up to
the intimation that on Thursday of last week at
about the time when Lady San was winning the
Oaks down Melbourne way, the cashiers of the
recent ball for the R. A. Hospital for Children
handed over to Mr. Percy Faithfull, the hospital’s
vice-president, a cheque for ±l4OO, being the net
proceeds of the hop. Mrs. J. Spencer Brunton
and Mrs. G. H. Greene were the cheque-bearers,
and they carried the document reverently. A
moment later Mrs. Goldschmidt handed in
another cheque for the support of the Victoria cot
for the coming year. One and another of the
board of management arose and said the con-
gratulatory word which turneth away wrath.
Then followed an inspection of the cots, and the
chapter closed with tea.
Considerable vice-regal livery strikes the eye
these days in a second-hand shop in Bathurst-
street, Sydney. It is said to have come from the
cast-off effects of Lord Hopetoun, when his con-
stitution and his countess persuaded him to quit
the job of Governor-General of the Common-
wealth. If Bildad Ithrael can’t get rid of it any
other way, why should he not fill in his spare
evenings writing an Australian comic opera with
one act planted on the threshold of Guv’ment
House ?
The medical Elkingtons, of Tasmania—where
the doctor man has been chief health officer for
some years—are shifting themselves and their
treasures to Queensland, and to the position of
Health Commissioner for that State. Probably
Mrs. Elkington, who was born in India and who,
it may be mentioned, is a sister of Mrs. Norman
Lindsay, will like better the climate where the
pineapples grow than that where the raspberry
flourishes and the snowball dwells on the crest of
Mount Wellington.
The Child Study Association is bestirring its
always active self in a new direction. Mem-
bers, friends and patients purpose giving a
reception in honor of Dr. Alan Carroll, who, since
his arrival in Australia, has gratuitously given his
services to the cure of deformed or mentally
deficient children. An Italian artist, Mr. de
Pyro, now on a visit to this State, has painted a
portrait of Dr. Carroll, and this picture will be
given to its original at the reception, probably
about the end of the month. For years the
C.S.A., under Dr. Carroll, has worked hard and
unostentatiously—has done its job in the shadow,
so to speak, without fashionable influence or
Government aid—and the presentation of his
portrait to the skilled and charitable head of the
association seems a very modest acknowledgment
of all his gratuitous kindness.
Mrs. Quesnel and Mrs. Paige-Ranken are re-
questing “answer, if you please,” to invitations
to hear Mrs. Quesnel’s scholarship contralto,
Lyall Hine. The demoiselle, who has been with
her teacher for seven months, will lift her voice at
a students’ recital at the Y.M.C.A. Hall on
Tuesday, November 16.
Lady Sarah Wilson, a daughter-in-law of the
late “Salmon” Wilson, squatter, of this con-
tinent, is publishing her “Recollections of South
Africa.” The very belated (with her story)
penster was in Melbourne soon after her marriage,
and stayed with the Hopetouns. As the sixth
daughter of the seventh Duke of Marlborough her
marriage to a young Australian was reckoned a
Great Honor for him. The parental money-
maker of the honored party got his piscatorial
nickname because he introduced salmon into Vic-
toria. Lady Sarah is said to be a good sport.
Her London telegraphic address of “Hurrah”
suggests as much.
Mr. George Vincent Gilhooley, youngest son of
the late Dr. Gilhooley and brother to Mrs. ex-
Mayoress Tom Hughes, employed the Mad Horse
week of seven days ago by taking a nice girl from
her fond parents as wife. Miss Gertrude Mcßride,
second daughter of a retired merchant of the
name, is the new-made Mrs. Gilhooley, and she
said “I will” wearing a gown of white Oriental
satin embroidered with diamonds or some things
that were very good understudies of the precious
gear. Both families were old Oxford-street
people in the days when that shop-ridden
thoroughfare had comfortable houses, and trees in
the gardens, and birds in the trees.
A numerous clan is. saddened by the death of
Mrs. Edward Lloyd Jones, wife of the chairman
of directors of David Jones Ltd. The deceased
lady, who was still quite young, was a daughter of
Dr. Philip Sydney Jones. She married her
cousin, whereby she remained Jones all her days.
The youngest of her family of four children is
aged barely a month.
These are the days of weird pets. I know one
young woman who harbors a blind canary with
one leg—the other limb is represented by a
wooden match. Also it is a hen canary and can’t
sing, and spends all its days sitting on a heap of
wadding, waiting for its mistress to come home
and soak bread for its evening meal ! But I know
a weirder case than even that one. When first I
met a little maid of 14 summers, with serious
brown eyes, who talked about a pet she called
“ Billy,” I naturally expected to see a sporty fox-
terrier or a kitten heave itself round the corner.
Instead, Billy crawled down the loose muslin
blouse of his mistress —just a Nile-green lizard
with a wicked eye. The little maid confesses to
a passion for frogs, too. Perhaps she will be a
great naturalist when she grows up—or maybe
she’ll just freeze up into an ice maiden, and wear
white marble frocks trimmed with North Poles.
London papers at two a penny publish por-
traits of the Clara Butt family at the marriage of
Miss Ethel Hook (Clara’s sister) to Mr. Hastings
Wilson, described as “the well-known tenor.”
All the family are shown smiling and revealing
dazzlesome teeth. The bride is a contralto like
her sister, only in a less degree.
Walter Bentley and his co. are at Newcastle at
time of writing after a money-spinning trip
through Queensland, where the members were
mostly honeycombed with mosquito bites and
smothered with hospitality. At Charters Towers
they encountered more goats—the real bearded
Williams and nannies—than they had thought
were on the face of the planet. The bright-eyed
businesslike creatures seemed to go everywhere
but to the theatre. About the end of next week
will find W. B. and his mimes in Sydney.
A wonder-child named Haydn Beck at present
pervades Sydney. He is an eight-j'ears old
Maorilander with the face of one of those bodiless
angels that smile around the Virgin Mother on
some of the old masters’ pictures. And his
genius runs to the violin, which he will play at a
concert at the Town Hall on the evening of this
day (Tuesday) week. How the parents were
so cute as to name the youngster to fit
the groove into which his small feet are
tending is a surprising circumstance. Most of the
Sydney professional music maniacs have already
heard the phenomenon, and privately prophesied
great things for him. At his concert on the 16th
Mr. Laurance Phillip will trouble the deep waters
of the piano, and a new baritone named Cecil
Ryan, from Maoriland, will exploit his voice before
going to Paris and Bouhy for study.
From Allan and Co. there drifts hitherward a
new song, "In Days of Old,” by May H. Brahe.
It is a singable, martial melody for baritones, and
will make them swagger arid want to go out and
fight everyone but the composer.
After reading some of the experiences of seekers
after the guileful “general” in England, one
marvels that any sort of United Kingdom serving
damsels are snared for Australia. A controversy
is raging in the ha’penny press on the possibility
of an eight-hour day for servants, and one em-
ployer has wailed thuswise :
We live two and a half miles from a station in a quiet
country place.
'Some time ago, wanting a servant, my wife inquired at
all local registry offices, but found no applicant willing to
go to the country. Then we tried advertising; we
advertised in 17 different papers, a total of over 60
advertisements, and were only rewarded by seven replies.
More recently, in reply to 10 advertisements, we had
one applicant, who said she had good references, but who
neglected to send them on when requested.
I now propose to import a foreign servant.
But he doesn’t specify how he intends to retain
his foreign importation after he has got her. I
believe there is only one way to retain a servant
—guarantee her a medium wage in the present
and a dazzling bonus at the end of two years’ ser-
vice, either cash or an affluent husband, or part
husband and part cash.
The girl I left behind me when I went South to
see Melb. lose its horse-sense, writes :
“Though Desdemona’s exit from her pa’s ’ome
was somewhat hurried, she managed to pack in
her suit-case a few things for wear as Mrs. Moor
O’Thello. Her flitting frock, in which she makes
her appearance before the most potent, grave and
reverend signiors, is of ivory charmeuse (this reads
like a 1909 dress report), with long angel sleeves,
a ceinture of gold embroidered with pearls, and
on her golden hair a chaplet of the same marine
treasures keeps in place a veil of something filmy
that forms a background to the fair face of the
colored gentleman’s bridelet. Her going-away-to-
Cyprus frock is of several shades of mauve, and on
her head she wears a pill-box sort of toque and
veil. Mrs. Emilia lago’s gown is of imperial
purple, with a head-dress of the same color
fastened with a cabochon of cut steel. This
she wears until the last scene, where a change
to another of the same shade is made so that she
will not be stabbed in her best frock. Evidently
her circumstances didn’t permit of too many
dressmaker’s bills. Mrs. O’Thello’s trousseau also
includes a striking reception-gown, built of tur-
quoise blue contrasted with a limery blue ; and
another of an early spring-green over cloth of
gold, slippers of gold and ornaments and ceinture
of emeralds (bridegroom’s gift to the bride
probably). Her about-to-be-strangled-though-in-
nocent garb is white brocade, which is shed to
disclose a robe de nuit of crepe falling modestly
over her bare pink toes. In striking contrast are
the clothes of her colored spouse. Gorgeous colors
picturesquely drape his huge frame, which is like-
wise decorated with rings and knives and things ;
in every scene is worn a decoration of emerald
green silk (which is circumstantial evidence that
he must have spent a week-end at Mecca, where
all good Mohammedans go on a visit to the tomb
of the man who had to go to the mountain since
h* mountain wouldn’t go to him), and wich his
flashing eyes and gleaming odontological display
he commands one’s whole attention. Men went
in for clothes in those days. The Grand Duke
sits in senatorial state in a crimson embossed
velvet with a court train as long as a Marathon
race, and a cape of ermine. Desdemona’s stern
parent likewise wears velvet of a deeper shade of
red, while lago and Cassio are picturesque in
slashed doublets and hose, high boots, and feathers
in their caps, like Macaroni, who went out riding
on his little pony.
“ A Tyson girl, christened Marion, one of the
Hay clan and niece of Ernest who created some
interest a few years ago, exchanged her back name
for that of Wilson lately, and goes to reside on
the Bananalaud Darling Downs, where he is a
squatter-man. A sister and brother, both over
6ft. high, saw to it that the bow was securely tied,
and an eight-carriage train carried the two moun-
tainvvards to their honeymoonal destination.
“With his strong right arm Conductor Slapoffski
led the Amateur Orchestral Society through a
maze of crotchets and quavers and such-like signs
that represented the programme of classical music
for Wednesday last, and all Sydney that was not
backing its fancy at Flemington rolled up to
the Town Hall to see him do it. The first
item was Wagner’s ‘Rienzi,’ the libretto of which
has to do with Bulwer Lytton’s romance. It was
this composition that first brought Wagner from
obscurity to be made chapel-master to the then
ruler of Saxony. The most important event of
the evening was Beethoven’s No. 3 Symphony in
E flat, 4 Eroica,’ composed in honor of the Man of
Destiny, and including a Funeral March, which,
though mournfully beautiful, was so inordinately
long that some Philistines in the hall began
to wish he (Nap) hadn’t died. The performance
of this item, which enthusiasts declare to be one
of the noblest artistic efforts that human genius
can boast of (vide programme), occupied the
greater part of an hour ; after which the audience
rested its ears for ten minutes’ interval, and
the great aggregate man suddenly remembered
he hadn’t registered his watchdog, ami went out
to do it at once. The second half included
the ‘Academic Festival Overture’ by Brahms,
‘La Colombo ’ by Gounod, and ‘Loin du Bal ’ (no
connection with loin of sheep ; I an, told it is Maori
for ‘Far from the Ball’) by Gillet, which
was given for the first time ; likewise a Symphonic
Poem by Sibelius, ‘Finlandia,’ the performance
of which, on account of its national sentiment,
was prohibited while things political were not
going right in that very advanced little corner of
Europe that answers to the name of Finland.
' Austral-Italian Miini Fiorelli (who changed her
name to something else not long ago), clothed in
emerald green trimmed with miniature targets,
performed some vocal feats in Rossini’s * Una
Voce,’ being threatened the while by Mr. Slap
with his baton, and received many botanical
specimens as the reward thereof.
“ Ex-ironmaster William Sandford has just re-
turned from his fifteenth excursion to the place
where Edward Number Seven hangs out his sign
of Rex and Imperator. 11l health drove him
home before he wanted to come; so daughter
Clarice likewise came along to look after her
parent.”
I received a letter from a man the other day,
and this was the postscript—men are even better
than women at writing postscripts :
We are still at the old address, but we intend to remove
when the lease expires. We are getting tired of the
place. This house breathes. In hot, dry weather the 10
big cracks and the 64 small ones open with a sighing
sound like a wild animal with a cold in a cave. And
when wet weather comes they close, and make a sound
like something eating corned beef in a desert. Six new
cracks have opened within the last three days, and more
are expected at any moment. Two friends of mine (archi-
tects), who generally drop in on Sunday, don’t come
inside now. They have a whisky and soda on the lawn
and go away. They say they stay outside to admire the
scenery. One of them remonstrated with me for letting
the baby lean against the house. He said a house like
that should be treated tenderly.
The horse breathed hard on the fence the other day,
and 25ft. of it fell down. However, we gathered it up
and told the horse to breathe against a tree in future.
The old cow scratched herself against the shed the same
day, and the shed fell down on the calf. However we
dug the calf out, and it doesn’t seem much the worse. I
have put up the shed again. No one knows why the cow
wanted to scratch. Ttie big iron gate at the carriage
entrance is tied up with string, all the fastenings having
gone. It is the only gate in the street that is tied up
with string. I have propped it with a bottle. The
bottom has fallen out of the letter box.
There are two bathrooms in the house, but in the large
bathroom the water always stops running if any other
tap in the place is turned on. Somebody is sure
to turn on a tap somewhere, and as you can’t
very well dress yourself in the middle of your
bath, and go down to tell the servant girl and the
generally useless man to turn off all the taps, the big
bathroom is of very little service. The other bathroom
has a good water supply, but the window Won’t close,
and the door won’t open, and the bath plug is a misfit,
and besides it has a Hole in it for ventilation. I never
saw a bath plug with a breathing hole in.it before. The
result is that you have to fill the bath twice before it is
half fall, and then it is very nearly empty. The hot
water apparatus always blows up when you light it.
My boy found a hole in the ground at the corner of
the house, and dug down to see if there was a rabbit in
it. Six inches down he came on the bottom of the
foundation. We put a half brick under it, and re-filled
the hole. I thought they made foundations deeper than
that.
There is a bees’ nest under the house. I have had the
roof repaired. It only leaks in six places now.
I think I told you about our doors. They are of two
kinds. Half of them won’t open, and the other half
won’t shut. The latter lot are subdivided into doors that
bang and .doors that don’t bang. The Venetian blinds
have mostly come to grief and hang sideways, but that
gives the place a p easing' air of variety, for some of them
hang one way and some of them hang the other. None
of them hang both ways at once.
I am several months in arrear with the rent. I have
been told that, if the house falls in on you, it is equal to
a clean receipt, so I always keep in arrear now. I want
to make something out of the collapse.
All the children are. well except the dog. He diefl last
week. A tile fell on him from the stable roof. Our ser-
vant has left. She says tljerc is a ghost in the.house.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
An ancient mariner drops The Bulletin a few
lines of mediaeval history :
Tins Bulletin mentioned on Sept. 2 that already half
a mint of money had been spent in trying to turn the
N.S.W. port of-Newcastle into a decent harbor, with poor
results ; and it went on to say that all the time there is,
a few miles north, a fine natural harbor at Port Stephens,
where the city and port should have been, iln 1872 I was
master of a vessel carrying coals to Melbourne, and when
ashore I lived at Newcastle. A seven months’ strike hap-
pened just then —the biggest strike known in Australia
up to that time. Everything wasstopped, and soon the har-
bor got chock-a-block with vessels. Then several Sydney
men, Melbourne coal merchants and captains of Yankee
ships put their heads together, and a large sum of money
was guaranteed—much of it Melbourne money—to turn
Port Stephens into a shipping port. The idea was to
first use that part of it known as Salamander Bay. Cap-
tain Munro, of the old A.S.N. Co., took a hand, and he
and others applied for land about there. Everything
seeiped to be going ahead famously, and it didn’t look as
though anything could stop the project. But they all
reckoned without the Sydney and Newcastle politicians.
The late G. A. Lloyd, who in that year became Treasurer
in Henry Parkes’s first Ministry, Was member for New-
castle ; and he got to work, pointing out that if Port
Stephens was opened up it would put the set on New-
castle ; also attention was directed to the fact that Mel-
bourne was interesting itself in the new place, and that
was enough for some Sydney people. So the Government
helped to squash the new idea. The ruinously expensive
port of Newcastle thus continued to have its monopoly,
although, had it been otherwise, there were, and still are,
all the foundations for a second Clyde or Tyne i.tPoit
Stephens—coal, fire-clay and iron ore handy ; and seven
fathoms of water right up to Salamander Bay.
couldn’t get a better illustration of the frightful cost or
putting a city in the wrong place.
It reads very like the story of Twofold Bay over
again—Twofold Bay, where Ben Boyd started
to build a city so that Riverina and Monaro
might have a convenient outlet for their produce.
Sydney squashed Boydtown by refusing to light
the harbor or to let Boyd light it, and the ruins
of the enterprise moulder even unto this day.
♦
•Tost before he returned to India, a Commerce
Congress visitor, one M. de P. Wf.bb, C.1.E.,
used a column of the Argus to speak severely to
young Australia about its sad want of respect for
our brown brother of Asia. It isn’t right, he says,
and must be stopped :
I would earnestly implore them [that is, us] to remem-
ber their relations and responsibilities towards the 350
millions or more of the King’s loyal colored subjects
men, the best of whom, in India at any rate, are in every
way the equal of ourselves. . . . With 20 years’ experience
of India and its various races behind me, I can unhesitat-
ingly state that the peoples of India are (with the ex-
ception of the color of their skins) no different from the
peoples of other parts of the world.
While the Argus was letting Webb tell this yarn
about the Indian nigger being no different, the
Argus’ weekly, the Australasian, was describ-
ing a new book dealing with this ‘'no different ”
phase of Indian life. A white man “ forms a
connection ” with a beautiful Hindu girl, a
Christian and a teacher in a mission high school.
The white man, troubled by his conscience, thinks
of "making tin honest woman” of the girl. And
this, according to the Australasian, is what
happens:—
He finds, to bis astonishment, that by doing so he
would only aggravate his offence, already very great in
the eyes of the mission. . . . The clergyman declines to
celebrate the ceremony. In India, it seems, a mixed
marriage is considered worse than an irregular connexion.
.. . Even the chaplain of the station refuses to marry
him.
Eventually the man does marry the girl, and
then “he is shunned by men of his own race.”
This is the sort of thing that is-continually hap-
pening in India. Though occasionally the de P.
Webbs may rant about equality, they never dream
‘of putting that rant into practice; and their
actions, legislative and social, shriek derision at
their talk. The short way to decide whether the
Hindu is the Briton’s equal is to give him com-
plete self-government in his own land, and an equal
share with the Briton in the government of the
Empire. He forms the biggest section of the
people of the Empire so the proposition is quite
fair. If Webb believes his own silly yarn about
the Hindu’s mental and moral equality, he will
devote his life to bellowing earnestly on these
points.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
BY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
DAINTY PRESENTS.
£V
O V’
Write for
Christmas Boo'lot.
Over 250 Illustrations.
Sent Post Free
to any Address.
****.>»«,
Opal and Pearl Circle Brooch,
in case, £2/15/-
dfg
fd
Selections of
the Newest Goods
sent on approval
if desired.
ftvo°
cfl.
\dot
pe»
SPECIAL ATTENTION GIVEN TO ORDERS ARRIVING BY POST.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
US QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
IDEAL DAIRY and MIXED FARMS
For ABSOLUTE AUCTION SALE
AT
KILKIVAN, QUEENSLAND,
ON
4th December, 1909.
KILKIVAN Estate
16,600 Acres Freehold, Subdivided into 34 Farms.
Rich Alluvial Soil.
Generous and Well Distributed Rainfall.
Unrivalled Railway Facilities.
Most Liberal Terms.
SEND FOR DESCRIPTIVE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
HAIN & SEARIGHT, Auctioneers,
12 Loft us Street, Sydney,
and at KILKIVAN, QUEENSLAND.
g
22
<&
K.
MOUSTACHELESS MEN
Who have tried all sorts of so-called Moustache Producers
without success should invest in a jar of
CAPILLARINE,
for it has never failed for 25 years to produce a fine
full-yrown moustache on any lip.
SENT POST FREE ALL OVER THE WORLD FOR 10/6.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years,
s
y
A
m
fig if
x h*. &<% *n in w w £ S
“ ft ft '6 f Jf Kb gj
ffur:
S vfli
an
4^
- -
*\
<r -
ON KAMBALA HEIGHTS.
The most select and exclusive residential suburb in Sydney is Bellevue
Hill. And until now building allotments there have been practically unobtain-
able. But all that is to be changed. On NOVEMBER 20 we will offer at auction
some hundred home sites on KAMBALA HEIGHTS ESTATE —a picked
spot in Bellevue Hill district.
This choice property fronts Bellevue Road between Double Bay and
Bellevue Hill. It is close to “ Cranbrook,” the residence of the State Governor,
and many other of Sydney’s finest homes. The estate is high up above the city
and enjoys glorious views. From some parts are to be had delightful glimpses
of the harbor.
The Last Chance.
This auction offers the last chance to secure a home site in Sydney’s best
suburb. The number of allotments is limited—only a few can make their homes
there. Will we send you a plan '1
Lots on this estate will be splendid investments. No matter where you
live, you can have one. Send for a plan, select the lot you want (or let us
select you a good one), and instruct us to buy it for you at auction.
Terms are easy —5 per cent, deposit, balance in 60 equal monthly
payments, at 5 per cent, interest. Specially favorable terms to those who
build within a year.
yffjhar’
<zCo^£/cf
ICMQF\
wptfst
A New Phonograph
has been specially designed to meet the demand for a
moderate-priced machine that would play both the
Two-minute and the new Four-minute Records.
All the important features of the higher-priced
machines are adopted in
The Edison “Fireside,”
which has a silent, long-running motor, a handsome
19in. Horn and our new Model K Reproducer, fitted
with two sapphire points, which can be adjusted
instantly—for Standard and Amberol Records.
The wealth of music thus made available is a
sufficient reason why the “Fireside” should be ir.
every home. The price is
£4 15s.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


Alfonso XIII.
c hah/ipagne of table
Sparkles with pure Natural Gas, which distinguishes it
.from all..waters containing manufactured carbonic acid gas.
To H.M. King
Edward VII.
m
£'
“Comfort and
Contentment
in Corsets!”
Is only attainable by using your
most critical judgment in your
selection.
Royal
P.D.
Rustless Corsets
—the famous French Corsets that
inaugurated the fascinating
“ DIRECTOIRE ” Fashions—are the
Corsets that the most critical
dressers declare as the ideal in
style gracefulness symmetry-
comfort and coolness.
“ Your Draper will show you
the New Spring Styles.”
TRADE
Ha
MARK
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 8, 1909.
Mx Dear Yarrik,—
The Cup is always a thing to marvel at; but
this year, with an atmosphere of prosperity, or a
lifelike imitation of it, the frivolsome lightness ran
on to abandon. There ’ was wild splashing of
money on frocks; yet the fact did not khriek
itself in the ear of the casual looker, simply
because the highest cry in frockingat the moment
is in soft, subdued color, with no glaring con-
trasts. If a vivid color does suit Madame
la Mode, the decree has it that a black
veiling tones it down to a crepusculean hue.
The wealthy Cups of earlier days were garnished
with screams of color and a heavy overload of
obvious and aggressive decoration; but present
fashion is so demure that a certain cute tilt to
the side of a simple hat costs the ravished buyer
several guineas, and the cut of a simple little frock
that a mere man might praise for its apparent in-
expensiveness runs the poor, hungry, fashion-
worshipping woman into “acool fifty.” AtthisCup
even women with glaring taste have let a Parisian
edict turn them into effective pictures—sketches
in all-one color, and that one done in clean, simple
lines.
Certainly, the hats made it impossible to recog-
nise a woman unless she were broadside on ; yet
even they were simple in garnishing, and, droop-
ing over the face, shaded it from the blazing sun-
light. The very newest headgear is, in fact,
practically the utilitarian shape that Mum and
the girls vvear in the orchard when they lend a
hand to pick apricots and peaches in the rushed
season. Only there is this difference : Mum and
the girls pay two shillings for their shady lid, and
fashion makes a milliner collapse at the idea of
anything less than two guineas for the like thing
in another straw.
The Cup was a prince of exciting races, with so
many favorites in the last thundering rush. Yet
there were confirmed Cupites who never even saw
a horse—never even hustled for a seat or foot-
space on the swarming stands—never got out of
the stream on the lawn that blocked its own view
of the course. They drifted to luncheon beneath
the vines or tore a little food in their niotahs, and
then drifted back to sociable quizzingpf each other’s,
frocks ; after which they disappeared for tea and
ravishing scandal. Even in the paddock, over-
dressed feminine belongings of country racy men
hung back from the wave that rushed to the great
race of the day, and plunged wearily down on the
grass, with a look of tired picnickers. That was
in Grand Stand Land. On the Hill, half the
throng go with no thought of the race—take their
basket and pony chaise and baby, and sit in the
happy sunshine of a holiday, basking in the band
music.
The Countess let herself be elaborately dressed
for one occasion only—this Cup day. White, as
always, but with the simplicity embroidered, and
the skirts ruched and tucked in elaborate pro-
fusion. All her pearls were hung on her neck,
arid an priflamme of a plume waved in her black-
and-white hat. Lady Carmichael was in dejected
colors ;, but his State Excellency does run so to
ties arid boutonnieres and beams on race days.
The G.-G. is always spick and span, and his waist
curve is carefully marked.
The Oaks, which usually behaves politely and
sunnily to the ladies, was smitten by a gruelling
north wind—just a touch of devilish weather to
remind visitors that Melbourne is not Arcadia.
Nevertheless, Oaks frocks ventured out, and came
back torn shreds. Steeplechase, on Saturday,
had a return to glory-blue, which brought out
every sport and every butterfly, y
It is wonderful how the male bird can preen
itself at race time. Among the stewards Groker,
of course, leads the fashion in waists and spats.
Yet this year Surgeon O’Hara’s Cup dregs was
well in line witb Croker’s. Especially his
trousers; they were of white silk, cut wide as
sailor’s, and they blew impishly in the wind.
Fortunately, there was a heavy weight of brown
check tweeds on the upper deck, or even the N ‘
15st. racy man might have gone aeronauting.
Which reminds me how fetchingly French Mrs.
Newly-wed Flier Defries looked in green silk
tailorings and a champagne-colored hat that was
quite sober. Colin Defries, who is an enthusiastic
bepedict, wore lavender gloves and spats to his
grey symphony.
Melba has been a keen sport at each meeting.
She refused to leave the fascinations of the running
at Gorsave time, which happens before the last
race; though she was the only occupant left in
the V.R. box, excepting a stray aide overlooked
by the departing Governor folk.'
A very striking-looking girl was over from your
side —Miss Bonsor, arelativeof shipping-magnate
Owen Cox, who alighted at the Grand with
several he and she guests, valets and secretaries,
captured the,best suite, and kept things humming
on the ’phones while he was there. Miss Bonsor
was at the Cup in smart tailorings. The champagne
shantung of her suiting was striped and lapelled
with green, and her hat was the black, touched
with gold, that Fashion declares to be the High
Court’s judgment at the moment. On Oaks day
she was in a white princess, a green hat with
white wheat wreath, and a green jewelled Ninon
scarf \
The Dudleys gave a ball, arid every othfter Cup
whisk or shivoo faded to the paleness of a weak
gas-jet struggling in the glare of a 600-power
acetylene motor-lamp. Nine-thirty was the
fashionable hour of its beginning, and long after
midnight saw anxious-eyed chauffeurs fluttering
against the glass of the outer porch like so many
khaki moths, with nary a sign of a home-going
family to cheer them. The flank of the ballroom
was flung broadly open to the piazza, the terraces
and thecool stars. Blood-red carpetshowed the way
to the fountain, and shaded electrics just intensified
the dark of-shrubberigd garden-seats. T’other side
of the-ballroom the corridors were kept steadily
occupied with, supperettes. The deadly-serious
supper only began at 12, and for this there
had to be a cutting-up of the mob—one lot had to
be fed before the next was passed through the
tally-gates. It was a supper served on gold plate,
and golden narcissi climbed from the table to the
ceiling.
The matrons went several steps further than the
beautiful girls in glorious apparel; and Solomon
and Isaacs in all their glory were not arrayed as
the men of the assembly. A few kept to the
tight-waisted, black-and-white garb of ordinary
crows; but gorgeous uniforms were every-
where. Some of the unfortunate gallants couldn’t
sit down, such was the brand-new glory of their
habiliments. The beknighted Ewing exploded in
furious stage-whispers about his sartorial tight-
ness.
The new Windsor uniform of the Executive
Council was apparent in several blazing bunches.
The gold lace clings to the- black tunic like a
straight-jacket, and throttles the neck in a
miser’s clutch. The —well, the nether garments
are white and breeched at the knee like a rider’s
togs; and white silk stockings make or mar the
calves. The apparition ends with buckle shoes.
One wearer proudly explained that the trousers
for day-time dress occasions are blue with red
stripes.
The Governors themselves were resplendent.
Carmichael looked rather saggy even in Court
dress ; but Lord Dudley was the fairest flower of
the beautiful males. His gold lace fitted like a
glove, and blue sash and blazing stars covered
every inch of available space.
Beside this masculine bravery, the Dudley coun-
tess was an icily-haughty lady in white, with a
bunch of baby arums for bouquet, and pearls
smouldering at white heat. Melba was in white,
also; but diamonds threw their fire from neck
to waist, and turquoise shot up in the tiara. Lady
Spencer—a visitor—wore a Parisian white face
with a droopy-grey gown, and 51b. of plait wound
round her brow.
Medico Neil Crowley strutted proudly with his
new bride and wifie’s pretty sister, Noni Hay.
Ruby Madden had her newly-attached Patrick in
subjection; and Mabel Emmerton showed off
her champion fiancd. Two dowered widows
were taking notice. Widow Staughton, who
has not looked upon aught but black
and white heretofore, blossomed out in sequins
and blue. The other, Mrs. Coldham, wore bridal-
like gear of white and pearls. Mrs. Claude Mac-
donald—the frockiest woman in the States —
trailed black over gold satin, and fixed an icy
glare on another cat who duplicated her chaste
frock. Ex-Mayoress Pleasance had daughter
Madge decked in emeralds and green. The Carty
Salmon lady debutanted a sister—Miss Harris—
from Sydney. Mrs. Herbert Power, who had blazed
at the Reggie-Power ball the night before, waltzed
under the weight of heavy silver bands on her
black chiffon rags. Louise Smith wore a Paquin,
just annexed. Mamma Smith was hung in silk
tapestry—all white—built for her to wear at the
King’s ball. Son Harold made his debut in the
glory of scarlet regimentals. No girl deb. could
liaVe been vainer. Mrs. Mcßride wore magnifi-
cent cameos and a few other drapings. The
Selwyn Colonel’s lady carried some of her colors
too bravely. Senator Curly Keating’s lady, in
black, struck a smart note.
Amy Castles, alighting on Melbourne for Cup
week, sang like a bird. Her voice has improved
with native sunshine. She trilled and warbled on
Thursday night until she brought down the house.
Yerdi gave her all the scope for her fresh girlish
glbry-Of-a-voice, and several small songs of Nevin
about April and Spring bubbled over with youth.
But the youngster was rather daring in giving the
Inflammatus alongside Melba’s Rossini. Amy
Castles’ voice is pure and true and full of delight-
ful surprises, but she lacks devil. In the Melba
performance there were flames and imps. Only
the angels had a say in the Castles Inflammatus.
Mac Nicol rose far beyond platform work with
some Lohengrin; and Peter Dawson sang. Freddie
Beard, with his Victorian Festival choir, padded
the concert, backed up the singers, and conducted a
60-power orchestra.
On Cup night, at Her Majesty’s, where “The
Merry Widow” was holding . court, the chief
notable event was a Cup winner from Outback,
who had “shouted ” a box for a packed party of
cronies. They saw the curtain down ; then they
lit their pipes in the relieved manner of a man
who says. “Now a fellow can have a smoke in
peace.” Merry Widow Florrie Young, by the
way, has broken a mummer’s record by not going
out to the races for even one day. She stayed at
home and kept herself cool for her conscientious
German-frau rendering of the dancing female.
The Clarke-Reggie Powers found no difficulty
in “blewing” the thou, that Poppa Rupert set
aside for Phyl’s Cup-night dance. P'ran Town
Hall was bought up for the night, lock, stock and
barrel —big hall, old hall, corridors and commit-
tee rooms, and all carried an ultra-modern
scheme of decoration. In the ballroom the
Uncomfortably elevated ceiling was brought
to a more mundane level by a roof of rdses and
poppies arid a glow of pink radiance from hidden
lights. (If you want to be the the-est thing, see
that your guests don’t know whether the light
comes from the moon or Mars, or merely from the
ceiling.) One room (a sitting-out arbor) was
appropriately green. There was a fountain
in that room which played magically—
until worldly creatures discovered their
chiffons flapping dolefully about their ankles.
Then they knew the geyser leaked. Trie bride of
last year wore her bridal toggery, to remind folk
of an already almost-forgotten glory.
A straight-from-’Ome mode gets the sharp
tongue of disapproval in fashionable upper suckles
in this land. A squattah’s dame just from the
cold country wore no lining to her grey Ninon at
the Gov’ment House ball, and grey silk tights
were the only other appreciable gear in her make-
up. But at sight of it Sassiety sensibly threw its
chin haif-an-inch higher.
Hal Elvins, an enthusiastic piano graduate from
Melbourne Conservatorium, departs to the Euro-
pean grazing fields at the end of the year. The
farewelling concert tinkles in the Masonic Hall on
December 9.
From Sydney comes news of two engagements.
As one bride is from your way and her groom from
our way, the news ought to have been given out
from Albury. Turnbull —Robertson it will read
in the despatches. He is of a Victorian squatter
clan. She, I am told, is a niece of Mrs. Arthur
Allen. The other engagement mentioned leaves
me hazy on the identity of the bridegroom. So I
won’t specify, save to say that he is of your city,
and that the bride is a charming young widow,
daughter of a high-up military man who once
“ worked ” in the Commonwealth.
A man writes me: “Can it be that Melba wears
elevators in high-heeled boots when she is arrayed
for the concert platform or the stage ? Or does
she get all her appearance of tallness and her
graceful figure lines from ‘the artist’ who builds
her dresses ? It was a Melba of hardly more than
middle height whom I saw in the Birdcage at
Flemington on Derby Day. In a black coat and
skirt her figure was broad and matronly, and her
big bat, trimmed with about five dozen pink rose-
buds, seemed to confirm the effect of squatness.
She was just then in the company of the
Countess of Dudley, and the tall vice-regal lady
made the ‘Queen of Song ’ look positively short.
If I were Melba, I would never walk abroad in
low-heeled shoes and a coat of the loose, dressing-
jacket persuasion. Nor should my lid ever be of
the mushroom variety.”
Talking of Melba’s forthcoming sing for the
Bush-Nursing Fund, there was a breeze which
threatened to blow into a gale at the Carmichael
residence when the concert committee met there to
talk business. Lord Dick protested against the pro-
posal of a mere five-shilling minimum for reserved
seats, on the ground that golden notes ought not
to be thus sold for silver. Mrs. Chief Justice
Madden defended the original plan, and stood
valljantly to her guns. In a hot, impetuous speech
she declared that she had given her word to the
many mayoresses and other social lights of
suburbia that they would have bundles of five-
shilling tickets to sell. On those terms they had
promised to push the trade, said Mrs. Madden,
and she was not going to ask them to double their
rates. Lord Dick still protested, but the business-
like matron carried her point and reduced him to
silence.
A congress concerning teeth has been worrying
its way through this city. To the undentified
mind the surface result has been an outcrop of
tall hat. Melbourne Clippers are dropping the
horrible shining chimpey with a bump and taking
to the soft and squashy felt—but Dental Im-
portants evidently feel the necessity of the hat’s
especially when race time is in
congress week. They wear the plug covering to
repudiate the charge of being sports. On Thurs-
day night “The Catch of the Season” at Her
Majesty’s had the whole boiling in its circle.
There have been garden parties and dinners and
much confabulation of late. Visitors from the
other States say Melbourne is “ bright ” just now.
The Melbourne people (who have been at it for a
fortnight) smile wanly and hold their aching
heads.
Have y()u seen the new hair ? The pretty wife
of the just-imported aerdplanist brought it with
her, and exhibited it to a surprised audience last
week what time she bustled into a Collins-street
hat-shop to purchase the latest model from Lon-
don. (By the way, it is strange how Australians
decry our wares, whilst imported folk usually
hasten to patronise Melbourne millinery and
frocks.) But to return to the new coiffure—it is
like nothing so much as the smoothed-down half
of a cocoanut fitted tightly over the cranium.
Where it begins or ends is somewhat mysterious;
but it is seemingly swathed tightly and
closely round the head, as though one had
got some mortar and hit it on with a trowel.
Dolly Clegg makes a somewhat grotesque attempt
to capture the new effect, and quite a number of
society girls have forsaken the mountains of
bought curls, and are striving to make their back
bun as mud-like in appearance as possible. The
flying man’s wife, however, makes her coiffure a
much more pleasing thing, and one can understand
that she wears her hair so close to her head so that
it may not catch the wind when she goes for her
morning fly.
Randolph Bedford has a daughter Vera, of
whose big contralto voice big things are expected.
Melba has kindly promised to give the youthful
aspirant a hearing before she leaves Melbourne.
The Hyams sisters, who teach the infant and
youithful leg how to kick, are getting in early this
year-end with their Juvenile Fancy Dress Ball.
Thb festive event is dated for Wednesday (24th)
at the Masonic Hall. Parents desirous of watch-
inglthe evolutions of their offspring are ;advised to
book seats at Allan’s, for no tickets will be sold at
the hall under ss. Also grown-ups and kiddies
interested? in the occasion are reminded that gifts
of toys for the Children's Hospital and similar
charities will be greatly appreciated. The
Hyamses take up a collection of toys in the same
way that the Liedertafel, at its Christmas smoke
concert, takes up a collection of tobacco.
The Masonic Hall, by the way, was engaged for
a complimentary concert to Bessie Wallace last
Saturday. This Saturday (I3th) Rita Hope'h'as it
for her recital, which will be that accomplished
young pianiste’s most arduous undertaking up to
date.
The Melbourne Operatic Society is getting itself
ijeady to offer up the “French Maid” at the
Princfess’s Theatre on November 20 and 22 in aid of
that good charity, the Foundling Hospital, of
East Melbourne. The institution is heavily in
debt, yet valuable little Australians crowd in
upon it, and while there’s a penny to be got the
hospital won’t slam its doors. Governors and
mayors and the peerage in general have promised
to be present, and Sassiety is also asked to do the
charity a good turn and buy a few ss. seats. Mrs.
Henry Cave, hon. secretary of the hospital, and
Leonard T. Moore, hon. secretary of the Operatic
Society, have ( the arrangements in hand.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
Their Excellencies are discovering their new dominions
by degrees. The past week’s tour of exploration has been
to Anlatiy, the motored grange of “ Squire ” Dutton, who
met the party at Kapunda and petrolled them across.
Anlaby is a very nice place,! where the sheep never bleat
without permission from the manor-house, and the
flowers forbear to bloom if they haven’t got an order
from headquarters. Even the tracks are labelled, so that
the, status of any arrival may be discovered at a glance
from the road he is decorating. What would happen if
a baker :haj>pehed to get on the visitors’ road, or a
KSovempifwandered down the swagmen’s avenue, I shud-
der to think. Inehort, it is a beauteous and imposing,
grange, and their Exes, had an edifying sojourn among
the prize jumbucks and roses before hurrying back to
open 20 more flower-shows for us.
Adelaide has had one of its periodic outbursts of con-
certs. Programmes have been littered all over the land-
scape, and the shilling of the concert-goer is growing low
in his pocket. First, Brewster Pianoforte Jones, back
from the pursuit of fame in the British Islands, showed
off his improved technique at the Town Hall, and punched
his instrument’s head with great skill and energy. On
Monday the Conservatorium Orchestra drew a big crowd
to the Elder Hall, and played at it for two hours. Inci-
dentally, this performance presented a new tenor to the
world. His name is Frank Smith, and he is still quite a
boy ; but his warble is already soulful. On another eve
singer Lilian Davis and a band of songbirds gave an
operatic concert in the Walkerville Hall, with frocking,
acting and all complete. Selections from “Her Freis-
chutz,” “Faust,” “ Martha,” and “Samson and Delilah ’
were supplied, and a crowd that hoars all too little grand
opera for its taste was glad it was there.
We have also had “Hamlet” according to Shakspeare,
and “Hamlet” according to W. S. Gilbert, two nights
running. At the Club, on Wednesday, two energetic
and clever amateurs—Edith Ward and Maud Brooks —
manipulated the dramatic programme. The thing was
excellently done, and the dressing was quite magnificent,
though every costume had been made by the two girls
themselves. Edith Ward herself played Ophelia to Mr.
Davidson’s humorous Hamlet.
The next night Mr. W. Shakspeare’s effort w r as pre-
sented to a crowded house in slices by the University
Shakspeare Society. Here the parts were taken in
ordinary evening dress, so there were no outward aids
for the mummers. Nevertheless they grasped the in-
terest of the audience and held it firmly, for there were
patches of exceptionally fine work. Mr. Wilfred Neill
played Hamlet, and Muriel Craigie’s Ophelia shone par-
ticularly in the mad scene. Music was distributed at
intervals.
Baritone Oscar Taeuber is to be the next to take flight
into the vast unknown spaces of Bill’s Territory—by
which I mean Germany. He is going away at the end of
December with fiddler Willie Cade. The inevitable com-
plimentary concert happened on Saturday, and as he has
lifted his voice in the cause of half a million (or so)
artists, the best of these returned the compliment with
much gratitude and pleasant noise. The vice-regal folk
attended, and the army guarded them up the staircase,
and on the perilous journey down the hall.
We have actually captured a pantomime : “Jack and
Jill.” I daresay you have heard of it. Adelaide is so
pleased to have it, that it had bonfires and fireworks to
celebrate the first night; and their Exes came out in
state to decorate the occasion.
Two popular Adelaide folk died last week. One was
Mrs. Robert Fotheringham, who belonged to a well-known
pioneering family, and was one of the most hospitable
and charming women you could meet. The other was
Mrs. Dempster, wife of solicitor Dempster. Her death
was tragically sudden ; she had done most of her packing
for a flight to the Cup.
The Glenelg Sailing Club opened its season on Satur-
day. The expectant multitudes, clutching their invita-
tion cards, were admitted to the Kiosk, where the club
gave them tea, cakes, ices and other sustaining matter.
Miss Randell, an Adelaide lady who has been dwelling
in China for some time, but is over here on a brief visit to
relatives, had a queer trophy thrust at her by the Chinese
women at Amoy, where she was connected with the Lace
Guild. It is a processional umbrella, seven feet high,
made of scarlet satin, wondrously embroidered with gold
and bearing the sign of the royal Chinky house on the
top, and it is intended to be carried in front of her chair
on state occasions, whatever these may be.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
The provincial parliaments lately estab-
lished in China expressly exclude from member-
ship Chinese Christian teachers and graduates of
Christian missions and missionary colleges. The
principal elements in the programme of the
National party are the abolition of the right of
foreigners to be tried by their own consular courts,
the wiping out of the foreign management of
customs and postal services, and the encourage-
ment of Chow industries. As provincial assemblies
they may not be able to do much, but their
avowed policy indicates what the National Parlia-
ment, which is to follow in a few years, will aim
at. Young China is learning from the western
world, and has evidently set its yellow mind on
reducing the lesson to practice.
“ Biljim Abroad ” writes from S. Africa :
A couple of years ago I travelled from Australia to S.
Africa in company with a shipment of 200 prize stud
sheep. At the present moment a wealthy S. African
farmer is on the water with 68 prize rams from Australia,
and half a dozen others are at the same game. I have
heard them boasting that they are going to knock Aus-
tralia out at the wool game in a few years. Hundreds of
the best Australian stud rams are sold to S. Africa every
year, and the trade is increasing. What on earth are the
sheep men thinking of? Can’t they see beyond the price
of a sheep? A South African farmer would faint with
horror at the idea of letting an ostrich or angora goat
leave this country for breeding purposes. The export of
both is prohibited under heavy penalties. It is high
time the Commonwealth Government stopped this foolish-
ness of selling the goose that lays the auriferous egg.


Si
_
:
.
• '
i ,
’ ; * '
■ ir
/
l,:]
■■ ■ ■ '
■;kb
.
A'
tlf m
&■"t ■
i- < -'.r
• : sj|
m
:‘ ■ S‘l4
, y&s-M
lllfiiii
si' S
ii®
- ■
'
/f
s
■ Vi 5
m
>
M
w
iSffeS
•• - ,
;
Mh t.
ms,
%
» as
*...*■ . 2
mm,
mMm
S
m
f.i
m
mm.
ms.
m
.■ ■■ -
y:
■
#®s
■
mSn
tl
IS
m; f
B
■
’
» j.wesTOd.
■
.
■
•- " . s, .
,
..
■
H
rySyi S
*l. S§
i- V .
SUM
SCHWEPPES
DRV GINGER ALE.
Schweppes are the Sole Original ManufaAurers of
DRY GINGER ALE.
Therefore refuse all imitations & substitutes.
See that you g'et Schweppes, and looK
out for the on every bottle.
Purveyors by Special Appointment to
His Majesty The King;,
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales,
His Majesty The King' of Spain.
AWARDED GRAND PRIX, LONDON, 1908,
Schweppes Lime Juice Cordial
Prepared solely from Montserrat Lime Fruit Juice.
By Special Arrangement with the Proprietors of Montserrat.


A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut-glass SCENT-SPRAY,
Solid Silver Top, full size,
12/6-
Medium Size, 10/6.
GIFT IDEAS for XMAS
Don’t leave the thought of what you are going to give for Xmas right till the last minute. Do
your shopping now, so as to avoid possible disappointment. Here are a number of valuaole sugges
tions. Write for a Copy of Our Illustrated Catalogue. Sent, Post Free.
GENT.’
A. SAUNDERS.
i AUTOMATIC RAZOR STROP, Pure Silver-
plated, Riehlv Embossed,
14/6
Plain, 17/6. Other Styles, 15/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS. „ u
JEWEL CASKET, Handsomely Chased and Embossed,
Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined, A 1 Quality,
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/6, 18/6. 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS
Ladies’ Solid Silver PURSE and CARD
CASE, Handsomely Embossed, size
S ' i ’” £B/10/. .
4in x 2in, E2/o/.
Cherub Design, size 3 a in x 2£m, 3/•
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET SET, Fluted Design, Sterling Silver,
comprising 2 Full-size Brushes, Real Tortoiseshell
Comb, in Silk-lined Case,
£3-
Other Styles, 25/. 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, to £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE CASE, Solid Silver
Hand-engraved, size Sin x 2m,
15/6 , ml
Other Styles, 17/6, 25/, SO,.
ALL GOODS SENT.
POST FREE,
TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF CLOCKS AND
CHINAWARE.
<?re
COLLAR-STUD BOX, Pure suver-
plated, Richly Embossed,
4/0-
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Church of England COMPANION, Sterling Sil
ver Mounted, Cherub Design,
10/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver Mounts, 6
Pieces, Richly Embossed, in Silk-lined
Case ’ 25/
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, to
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Iris
Design, Fine White Bristles, size
10i x 3 (Mirror to Match £3),
30/
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 32/6, 15/,
20/, up. j
A. SAUNDERS.
lIAIR BRUSH, Pure Silver, Stork
Design, Fine White Bristles,
15/6-
Mirror to Match, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
REAL PEARL SHELL TRINKET
STAND, Pure Silver Base,
5/G
Larger Size, 8/6.
-o
'WS&*
m
era
GSB
W
Vi
**?? 6s
.Vm
fcSigj
'■•sya»>
jin —wnifr^^H
•i>
«^«h)
■gfc)
MS
%?gj§pgfe
x-t* v
c
s)ft
m
mmmMi
m
Ikiiii
|iij.u^uj^m!
3>:B>i
sJt»'
3 I
tew
mmmammSk
rnm
*M
m
m
HANDSOME CHERUB DESIGN,
TOILET SET in Best Morocco Silk-lined Case compns-
r„ n p.,11 s i 7e Hair Brushes, Hand Mirror, Cloth and
Ha g t Brush Torto? eshell Comb, Hairpin Box Powder
and VaseUne Jar, Shoe Lift and Hook, and Complete
Manicuring Set, £l4
Watteau Design, £l4/10/. ‘ Embossed, £l3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT PUMP, Solid Silver-
mounted, Cut-glass,
15/W
Nickel Silver, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HANDKERCHIEF BOX, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Velvet Finish,
4/6.
Glove Box to Match, 5/C.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAND MIRROR, Pure Silver,
Cherub Design, size 10 A x 3,
£ 3*
Hair Brush to Match, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S CARD CASE, Sterling Silver, Hand-
engraved, size 3jin x ljin, with Lid,
15/6
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/, 2a/.
¥
sm
A. SAUNDERS.
WAISTBELT, Butterfly Design, Finest English Ename ,
Richly Pierced, Solid Metal Back, Gilt Finish,
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S SHAVING CUP, White
Coalport China, Solid Silver Mounted,
5/0
Brush to Match, 2/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION, Sterling Sil-
ver Mounted, Handsomely Embossed,
Other Styles, </6, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Hand-
somely Engraved, Cradle Design, Silk-lined, 9in
h “ h - £2.
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/, up.
A. SAUNDERS. , .
CIGARETTE HOLDER, Real Amber, Gold-mounted, in
Richly-engraved Solid Silver Case, 2£in long,
Other Styles, 5/6, B/6, 10/C, 12/6, 15/6.
JimJliilomli
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S SHAMNG MUG and BRUSH, Pure Silver-
plated, Hand-embossed, Satin Finish, Finest Quality
Badger Bristles,
30/- , ,
Other Styles, 13/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith, &
Consulting Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, Bil, Sl3, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE NEW RAILWAY STATION.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Q
/
\^MT}
E
3
ON
w
EBm;
ES
ET
KE
E
12
W: 5
0
&
s
Isa
9BB
pja
w
willlllliirmjiniiijlUJHIII
Hi
=7n
tr^J
mm
%
wj
ie
n
s,r\
HnTI
55
t
@
i III
Llmiillllfl
"‘TOR WIjIj
FREIGHTS M
H APPLY A6EN r
ICUtsMiS OP”
ADD PORTY


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
T.ondon.
Apparently the world lies at the mercy of
the nation which first achieves the best airship.
May it be a liberty-loving nation. But what is
the matter with inventive Australians, their in-
genuity urged beyond its best by D.C.L. Whisky,
being the first to really conquer gravitation ? To
the right brain and the right quantity of D.C.L.
anything is possible.*
PlLES.—There is no more distressing and
painful complaint from which you can suffer
than Piles. The most effective cure is BALLAS
BALM. Certain in every case. Obtainable from
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLOARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Old timers will have to abandon their ancient
bdief that “anything can win the Melbourne Cup,” a
belief founded on the occasional surprises of long, long
ago. Glenloth and Tarcoola in 1892 and ’93 were the last
Cup winners who had no solid pretensions to be fancied on
their previous “form,” and one of these—Glenloth—
owed his victory to a deluge of rain and a sea of mud.
Since then the Cup winner has invariably carried some
considerable recommendations, and of late years “form”
has usually been very triumphant. Lord Nolan is spoken
of as a rank outsider, but he had run a respectable
third in the Melbourne Derby after doing very well
at the Randwick meeting. Auraria, the 40 to 1
chance who beat the Melbourne Stakes winner in 1895,
had also run third in the Derby, and, like Lord Nolan,
that grand little mare was notoriously a good stayer.
The Victory, who won in 1902, is spoken of as a great
surprise, but he had run second for the Melbourne Stakes
three days before doing the big trick. Apologue ran
second for the Caulfield Cup (and should have won it)
before winning the Melbourne Cup. Poseidon had two
Derbies and a Caulfield Cup to his credit ere he captured
the two-miles handicap. Acrasia had run second for the
Caulfield Cup, and sundry other winners within the past
20 years were favorites on their “ form ” or private trials.
This year, of course, nobody could show any reason for
not fancying three of the four placed horses. They were the
first three favorites on their proved merits, and but for the
intervention of Aberdeen —a good-looking son of Wallace
and a reputed stayer—the actual result would have been
exactly what it promised to be 100yds. from home, i.e., the
winner of two Derbies would have been immediately fol-
lowed by the winners of a Derby, a Melbourne Stakes, a
Sydney Cup, and other first-class w.f.a. races.
It is worth noting that four of the last seven
Melbourne Oup winners were begotten by horses that had
been imported for racing purposes in the first instance.
Positano, the English-bred sire of Lord Cardigan,
Poseidon and Lord Nolan, put up one rather brilliant
performance (at Randwick) ere he was thrown out of
training and sent to the stud. Sir Foote, the imported
sire of Prince Foote, was the fastest horse of his day, or
perhaps any day, in Australia. Neither he nor Positano
was a dogged stayer of the Wallace or Nordenfeldt
order ; but, seemingly, their progeny have the ginger and
lightness in action which is wanting in the great grand-
sons of Musket. The new blood tells. Prince Foote’s
dam was imported, as well as his paternal relative.
Coincidence scored heavily on Cup Day, and
superstitious punters had at least one good win. No. 12
was twice hoisted before Son of the March went out with
12 on his saddle-cloth for the last race. A lot of people
took 10 to 1 about the lucky number, and went home
jubilant. Three wins for the same number is a very un-
usual happening at any meeting where the fields are
large, but it once happened at a V.R.C. autumn meeting
that No. 13 won four races during the afternoon. In the
other two events the Devil’s number didn’t start.
In the light of the wisdom that comes after the
event, these statements re Melbourne Cup performers
may be accepted as fairly correct. Pendil was suffering
in body or mind, or both, from the effects of the bumping
or squeezing that prevented the little horse from winning
the Caulfield Cup. His disappointing “ form ” in the
Cup was no worse, or better, than it had been in the
Stakes, on Derby Day. King’s Cross, an unreliable
animal, went well for the first three-quarters of a mile,
and then refused to work. Ungarie was over-trained.
The animal was absurdly wanting in flesh, even fora geld-
ing. Alawa and Trafalgar were badly ridden. They
were asked to carry their top-weights in front of the field
for nearly half a mile before the winningpost was reached,
and, not being Carbines, they couldn’t sustain the long
run. Trafalgar was already going stale. He looked
weary before the start. Otherwise, he probably would
have outstayed Alawa, and certainly he would not have
been caught by Aberdeen. But in no case, as the race
was run, couid Trafalgar have had a hope of beating
Prince Foote.
♦ re
“Surcingle” writes this discursive piece (and
his craze for capital letters being plainly incurable, he is
allowed to have his own way);—“The Romance of
the Melbourne Cup exuded with Carbine. It is only a
Race. The early days of Histories and Biographies are
always the most interesting. Nature gets tired, and goes
on to something else, like Shakspeare in finishing- off
‘ Hamlet ’ or ‘ Measure for Measure.’ Reading Nat
Gould, I ask why he never plunged on Flemington. It
sticks out with a novel. The first Racing was near
Batman’s Hill. Moving to Flemington, about 1842, the
Hill was overlooked. The Finish was right over on the
opposite side, the south, near the Saltwater River. So
until about 1860, when the Hill was first utilised, with
the Finish there. What nimbuses of Romance around
the earlier horses at Flemington! Petrel, Tarragon,
Veno, Volunteer, Zoe, Flying Buck, Barb, Tomboy, Musi-
dora, Fishhook, Fireworks, Mermaid, Don Juan, and
so on. Owners like De Mestre, Tait, the Fishers, and the
Old School, decidedly gave more edges to a Romantic
writer than those of the present, aslikeaspeas. Romance
is wreathed around Stud Farms like Tait’s Byron Lodge,
De Mestre’s Terrara, Fisher’s Marib.vrnong, and Wilson’s
St. Albans. Then take that wonderful succession of
jockeys, such as Higgerson, Ashworth, Cutts, Morrison,
Driscoll, Stanley, Hales and Yeomans. The Starting
Gate virtually abolished George Watson, but what a peer-
less Starter lie was in the days before. I have seen him
stand on foot, in the middle of the course, facing
about 30 Cup Starters. He would whisk down the
red flag, and shout ‘Go!’ It meant ‘Come.’ They
would flash past him in a moment. What nerve !
Then the Tipsters I have known, just mentioning such
as Pickering (‘Nemo’), Levey (‘Voltigeur’), Dicker
Hamilton (‘Tout Cela’—droll card), Yuille Senior
(‘Peeping Tom’), Yuille Junior (‘Playboy’), Chapman
(‘Orange Blossom’ and ‘Augur’), Cook (‘ Terlinga’),
Bishop (‘Goodwood’), Simons (‘Ragpicker’), Bond
(‘Beacon’ and ‘Falcon’), McCulloch (‘Asmodeus’),
Morris (‘Apemantus’), Smith (‘Eclipse’), and the like.
Then there were the old-fashioned Flemington Racecourse
Swells, such as Standish, Blackwood, and Golds-
brough—with his invariable henchman, Josh Pickers-
srill. The Old Turf had innumerable eccentrics,
like Billy Lang and Sam Waldock. And who can forget
t he very characteristic Bookmakers of yore, such as Joe,
Barney and Jack Thompson, Bill Branch, Coker of the
Nose, Fagan of the Dogs, Alf Joseph, Billy Slack, etc.
Slack was the Leviathan, Joe Thompson the King of the
Ring. Goyder and Phil Glenister were always just quiet
citizens, like the Bookmaker of to-day. Glenister, whom
I saw not long ago, could ride more than a bit, and was
honored with Steeplechase victories. I remember seeing
the lanky poet Gordon leaving Flemington Racecourse
with his little wife, on the day he won two Steeples.”
* * * ■*
Features of the fourth day of the Cup meeting
(“a good day for backers,” or for a large minority of
them) were the final struggle between Alawa and Tra-
falgar, ending, as usual, in the defeat of the weary son of
Wallace ; the partial breakdown of Secret, just as that
useful little mare gave promise of beating Harvest
in the Steeple ; and the ridiculously short odd 3
offered against Sylvander and Flavel in their
respective races. The former was made to look
a good thing for the two-year-old flutter by the fact that
Its stable companion, Lager, was scratched at the eleventh
hour, and the “books” had fixed its opening price at
6 to 4. The very dogs in the Melbourne streets were
barking Sylvander’s name during the morning; and a
crowd assembled to see it saddled in the Birdcage. Of
all the circumstances that go to denote a “dead bird”
not one was wanting in Sylvander’s case. As little as
5 to 4 was accepted about the favorite’s chance by
trustful punters. But 10 minutes before the event the
short price began to lengthen. The supposed certainty was
seen to be as lame as the proverbial cat when it
took its preliminary, and Ikey Mo was yelling 3 to 1 ere
the race started. Sylvander finished nowhere. The red-
hot favoritism of Flavel for the V.R.C. Handicap had no
justification on paper, but it was said to be accounted for
by the fact that all the stable money had been plaeed at
reasonable odds with two big bookmakers, who imme-
diately backed it themselves and thus spoilt the market
for the outside public. The s.p. of 9to 4 recorded about
Flavel would have been at least 5 to 1 on a totalisator,
and this was only one of several instances during the
meeting when the odds against a victorious favorite were
preposterously short for rank-and-file punters.
* * ■» *
A lot of horse-owners would like to see the Oaks
eliminated from the V.R.C. programme and a lj-mile
handicap race put into the gap. Year after year the
valuable Oaks Stakes is contested by a ridiculously small
field, the average for the past five years being four
runners. Under the circumstances the time records have
been remarkably good. Only three fillies went to the post
this year, but the winner, Lady San, had to do the 12
furlongs in 2niin. 37}sec. Oddly enough the following
race—the Veteran Stakes—fell to Nushka, the winner of
the Oaks last year. Old, conservative sports, by whom
the mares’ race is hallowed for its Hinglish associations,
can argue that “class” is fairly well represented, as a
rule, in its meagre fields; but why should it not
be replaced by a more attractive fixture? The per-
petuation of the Oaks means that at least one event
on the “off” day of the V.R.C. Cup meeting is bound to
be uninteresting to the public. A handicap restricted to
mares might well be put in its place. Another easy im-
provement could be made in the V.R.C. programme by
substituting a 12-furlong handicap flat race for 3-year-olds
for the three-mile hurdle race on Cup Day, and trans-
ferring the latter event to the Thursday’s programme in
place of the two-mile raee over the little sticks. The Cup
Hurdle Race is a superfluous attraction for the country
folk on Cup Day. They would he just as numerous if it
were omitted. Btit on the off-day of the meeting a three-
mile jumping race, with £5OO added money to tempt a
strong field, would be a decided draw.
* * * 4t
How beautiful are the Melb. dailies’ reports of
the Williamstown Oup presentation 1 The secretary of
the Racing Club remarked incidentally to Mat Ellis, the
“owner” of the triumphant Kerlie, that this was the
second time he had won the Williamstown Cup. Then
correcting himself, he explained that he was alluding to
the fact that Ellis, a racehorse named after Mat afore-
said, had previously won the Cup, so the two victories
were both “in the family.” Which was a very lame
back-out, anyhow. Ellis, everybody believed, was Jack
Wren’s horse. Itran in the nomination of one Sinclair, but
it might almost as well have had the name of Wren sten-
cilled on its quarters. So the secretary of the Williamstown
Club was indirectly stating that Wren, the breeder of
Kerlie, was also its owner. Therefore Mat Ellis, without
giving any reason for his denial, besrged to state that
Kerlie was not the property of John Wren, Esq., but the
property of himself, Mat Ellis. He felt, however, that
this was a fitting occasion for him to refer to his long
friendship with John Wren, Esq., and his great respect
and reverence for John Wren, Esq., on account of his
good heart and lovely deeds. Ye gods! Are the Mel-
bourne papers to be deluged, on the slightest provoea-
tion, with the unnecessary speeches of Wren’s old pals to
the effect that that-weariful citizen is the noblest work
of God?
* » * *
The allegation that John Wren has purchased
Ascot racecourse (for £15,000) is confirmed by the fact
that the Melb. dailies have lately included Ascot with
Flemington and Caulfield in their horse-training reports.
Nothing that can glorify the name of Boss Wren or
minister to his vanity is left undone by the local “sport-
ing’’press. He has not yet re-appeared as a racehorse
owner under his own name, for the V.R.C.’s refusal to
accept his nominations is still in force ; but when Kerlie
won a race at Flemington on Derby Day, the Herald
mentioned that the winner carried “the colors which
Murmur bore to victory in the Caulfield Cup,” or words
to that effect. Kerlie, aforesaid, runs in the nomination
of Wren’s particular crony, Mat Ellis, and is trained by
Musgrave, who had charge of Wren’s horses when he was
officially recognised as a noble patron of the turf. Since
public attention has been called to the circumstance that
Kerlie’s colors and Murmur’s colors are identical, the
other coincidences may as well be noted. In fact, the
V.R.C. committee may as well take an early opportunity
to fall on the neck of Wren and ask his forgiveness or a
list of his performances or something.
* * * *
The obstacles put in the way of the harmless
speculator who wants to buy a Tatt.’s ticket had the
effect of reducing business this year. Tatt.’s 10s. sweep
was closed with 50,000 subscribers, but a couple or more
of the ss. sweeps were filled up. Two of the Prince Foote
tickets went to Melbourne. A bar-lady at the Ballarat
Star Hotel drew P.F. in a dollar sweep, but was per-
suaded to sell her chance for £7OO to a syndicate of three
bookmakers—an absurdly low price, considering that
the buyers were getting 8J to 1 about a win (first prize
£6000) plus the chances of second or third prizes, or a
certain share of the money for starters or non-starters.
The lucky drawer in the 10s. sweep was a Melbourne man
in the commission agency line, who “laid off” £l5OO of
his £6OOO.
* * * *
The Melbourne Indoor Sports Club took over
the Cyclorama and the handling of boxing again on Mon-
day, November 1, when that large, husky Hibernian,
Michael Williams Esq., champion of Ireland, Africa and
the Pacific Islands, undertook to double up his smaller
compatriot, Patrick O’Keefe, the man of Cork who is con-
spicuous in the suite of Tommy Burns. Williams had a
big advantage in length, reach, bulk and strength, and
the favor of the clan Hooligan was with him. Mike, after
being mown down in short order by the three Australian
Bills—Smith, Squires and Lang—had begun to re-
gain public confidence by blowing out minor lights
of small poundage. He was expected to blow
out O’Keefe, but when he failed to smother
the middleweight in five rounds, the possibility
that Pat might put him into a mesmeric sleep began to
aftract popular attention. Tommy Burns, who schooled
O’Keefe, wisely instructed him to keep out of Mike’s dis-
tance as much as possible till Mike had wearied himself
with Donnybrook flurries, and then sent him in. In the
sixteenth verse both were tired, but O’Keefe retained a
good swipe and some discretion. He kept the discretion
and gave the swipe to Mr. Williams on the chin, and once
more Ireland went down beneath the heel of the
oppressor. O’Keefe was declared the winner.
On the previous Friday Arthur Douglas, the
9st. 91b. South African who has felled so many Australian
lightweights, struck Australia’s chief hope, Hughie
Meaghan, 9st. 81b., and the brightest fight that has hap-
pened along for a year and a half resulted. Douglas
waded in with his man-eating methods, but Meaghan re-
fused to be consumed. He motioned the African away,
or cast him aside, or warded him off, or propped him with
a rigid left. There was much in-fighting, and the scrap
was busy from first gong to dead finish. Then the referee
pointed out the Australian as the more deserving object,
and Meaghan took the loot and the glory. He deserved
both.
♦ * * *
By the time this is in print the Mclntosh will
have returned to Sydney and been welcomed at Bate-
man's Hotel. Likewise ancient Bob Fitzsimmons.
Whether he will succeed in bringing off the Jeffries-
Johnson match in Sydney—if they ever should really
fight—nobody knows ; but the Mclntosh is making every
possible endeavor to do it. The Mclntosh has kept the
name of Australia well before the people of the older
world, and never given them a chanee to forget that
there is such a place, and that it is the best on earth, bar
none. Wherefore Mac deserves well of his countrymen.
In spite of the din and riot of the Melbourne
Cup, the curses of the backers and the profane thanks-
giving hymns of Moses O’Brien, the Sydney cricketers
went on their way and commenced another round, as
though there wasn’t a horse-race south of the equator,
Out at Waverle.v the local batsmen could knock up only
192 against the men of Middle Harbor, who replied
with 92 for two wickets before stumps were drawn.
Sydney made a bad start against Glebe, leaving only 149
behind it when it handed over the crease to Glebe.
Glebe had by close of play smacked up 103 for six
wickets, which was anything but brilliant for such slog,
gers. Burwood made 123 against Petersham ; and the
baby club that has come so suddenly to the front
answered with 93 for six wickets down. Paddington
scraped up 167 against Balmain, which responded with
61 for three. In the midst of these commonplace per-
formances University did something worth mention ; it
made 358 against Gordon, and then took three Gordon
wickets for 47. But the top score of the day was Central
Cumberland’s 382 against Redfern, which did not get
going till close upon time, and made a first appearance
with seven for no wickets.
There were only two centuries, and both were
made by Central Cumberland ; E. F. Waady 113, and L.
W. Pye 104. So the honors of the day were easily with
the trundlers, of whom the best were Rough, of Peter-
sham, who took seven Burwood sticks for 53 ; and Folk-
hard, of Balmain, who got five of Paddington’s wickets
for 29. Altogether, Saturday’s cricket in Sydney was
nothing to get drunk over.
* * » *
Carlton is continuing its pre-eminence in Mel-
bourne pennant cricket. Saturday saw it compile 322 for
live wickets, Dick making 112, and Sewart 149 not out.
Other displays were not exuberant. Richmond totalled
119 against East Melbourne, which has practically wiped
out arrears with one for 97. South Melbourne against
Essendon held the fort the entire afternoon, and finished
up with 246. P’ran aggregated 210 against North Mel-
bourne. and North has so far replied with two for 32.
University’s eight for 75 against Northcote’s 125 leaves
the former in some danger of defeat; while Fitzroy’s full
score of 191 against Collingwood demands apologies from
the Fitzroy batsmen. At times their languid batting was
a weariness to the 2i spectators or thereabouts. In fact,
a burial service or a tour through Geelong would have
been exciting in comparison.
* * » ■*
Victoria v. South Aus. opens the inter-State
cricket season at Adelaide Oval on Saturday. There is a
streak of new blood that will be watched with interest.
Thus Victoria gives “googley” bowler T. Cannon an
opportunity to show what sort of cricketing stuff Fitzroy
now produces.
* • * *■
The argument between the Victorian Cricket
Association and the M.C.C. has got as far as an agree-
ment, which wears a good deal of obscurity in its middle
and a sting in its tail. It provides that for seven years
; big matches shall be played on the Melbourne Ground,
the M.C.C. to pay the trustees 10 per cent, of gross
receipts on international and inter-State matches. The
M.C.C. Is also to hand the V.C.A. £925 per annum if
three international teams happen along during the seven
years ; if four, the figure will be £lOOO. This is a consider-
able come-down from the club’s previous “ last final offer ”
of £BOO a year less 10 per cent, for the use of the ground.
Th, 10 per cent, no. S oe. to the■on
the d o'Ss“S«“. ,, BSttn»ttljo«*arnenUstfV»nto^
pose ; further, that the agreement shall end > the.’.U
cease to be the governing body of cricket m
Quite likelv there are some persons eager to depose the
V.C.A., and it should be the V.C.A. 8 business to see that
they are disappointed. For the rest the trustees become
something more than a name, while the club v
foreground and gets back into thejmddle distance.
According to the chronicles of the Australian
XL, Cotter bowled no less than 107 no-talls during the
tramp through Britain. Question : Which side derived
most benefit from Cotter’s inclusion in the team !
* » *
Norman Brookes, as sole selector has chosen
A. F. Wilding (M.L.), G. G. Sharp (N.S.W.), A. Dunlop
(Vic.), and himself as the quartette from which the Aus-
tralian team for the Davis Cup will be chosen. The
Yankee tennis reps, are on the spot and trainin hard.
Contrarv to expectation, they did not go to the Mel-
bourne Cup, but stayed in Sydney to practise, in the
hope of taking the Davis utensil back with them.
Melville Long and Maurice McLaughlin, the
Yankee reps, aforesaid, are tine specimens of the human
animal; and, though they are both under 21, they bring
with them tremendous reputations. It. is: generally
understood that the coming struggle for the Cup will be
much more severe than the one put up by Beals \\ right
and Alexander ; and that was hard eno.ugh in all
conscience.
* * * *
Wilding annexed one more tennis premiership
at Perth, when he easily won the championship of Aus-
tralia. He must find it difficult to remember exactly how
many countries he is now, or was recently, champion of.
It is a pity Brookes did not compete, as the public would
like to know which of these two is really the better man.
Certainly thev stand out from the ruck of Australian
players. Wilding is evidently in form for the Davis Cup,
though the serves of the remarkable youngsters who
have come from America in quest of the “ catgut”—they
don’t like “ashes” on tennis courts—will worry him
some. In Tub Lone Hand for November Wilding depre-
cates the exaggerated American serve; and expresses
some new views on the other debatable points of the
game.*
* * ■» *
The first Ocean race of the Sydney season was
won easily enough by Awanui, the challenger for the
Sayonara Cup. The struggle was for the Beauchamp Cup
under the Roval Yaehr. Squadron’s burgee, and the course
was from Neutral Bay to Coogee. Rawhiti was expected
to nut up a great fight, but through the throat halyards
carrying awav, the big yacht was out of the hunt. Mr.
Trebeek, with his game little Petrel, put up a splendid
race, and, completely outsailing her old-time rival, White
Wings, danced into second place. Yeulba (sometime
Oulwulla) was third. The Beauchamp Cup is now won
outright by Mr. Saxton. Culwulla 11. also sailed and dis-
played excellent sea qualities ; but owing to some trouble
with the mainsail, the little craft was not seen to advan-
tage.
*■*•*•*
Cyclist Frank Birtles, who left Fremantle on
September 29 on a solitary transcontinental journey to
Sydney, had it very dry to Eucla, on the border, but got
into good country after that, and reached Port Augusta
on November I—within a few hours of his schedule time.
He left again for Broken Hill the same afternoon, reached
the Hill two days later, and was on the track again the
same evening.
* * * *
A neat little pamphlet, addressed to medical
men in particular, is published by the Tarrant Motor Co.
under the alluring title of “ How to Increase Your Prac-
tice.” “The day of the horse is passing,” says the
pamphlet, and inferentially it assures the doctor who
travels around in a gig that unless he at once begins to
hunt up his patients in a car his professional name will he
Mud. Which seems to be true of all kinds of commercial
travellers—town or country. The drummer of the future
will have a choice between two names. It will be Mud
if he wastes half his time in waiting to catch trains and
coaches, And if he pushes his trade in a motor his name
will be Dust. All the sweets of life nowadays are for him
who kicks up the most dust,
« * * *
Although he has now seen 42 summers go down
into the misty past, ex-champion cyclist E. A. Pearson is
to make an effort to reduce the time of Salvana,
the man who smashed his (Pearson’s) record between
Melbourne and Sydney. During the last three years this
record has been fractured thrice. In 1907 Salvana made
it 73hr. 31min.; then, in 1908, Pearson reduced it to 57hr.
24min.; and, this year, Salvana again reduced it to 55hr.
66min.
* * * *
Perth (W.A.) easily outpointed Maoriland in
the struggle to capture the sculling match between
Pearce and Day. Perth put up £l3O for the winner and
£7O for the loser, with £25 expenses for each man. Then
Maoriland blew out.
WHERE ARE THE FIGHTERS OF ’49?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I send you a few copies of Bell’s Lifk, published in
Sydney in 1849.— Extract from a friend’s letter.
Sydney Bell’s Life of 'forty-nine,
Papers of sixty years ago,
Tell of the fights and the girls and wine
That the grandads of Sydneyside did know.
Fights at Cook’s River and Strawberry Hills;
And after on beefsteak and rum they’d dine,
And honor the battered Dicks and Bills.
Where are the fighters of forty-nine?
Saddler and Sparkes and Perry the Black—
List to the language around the ring,
Where fathers of many who’d blazed the track
In slang all forgotten shout and sing :
“Castors” and “mauleys” and “smellers” and
“ mugs,”
“Peepers” and “breadbaskets,” “tapping the
wine.”
Faces were “dials ” and ears were “ lugs”—
Where are the fighters of ’forty-nine?
Ginger Dawes and Hawkesbury Gooch,
Dubbo Oliver and Dummy Dick ;
Gorr.v and Winders and Jimmy the Mooch-
Smiling at. blows that would make us sick.
And the Sprig o’ Myrtle picks Bowman up ;
And the Cabbage Tree mob adjourns to dine
After the fight and the friendly cup ;
Where are the fighters of ’forty-nine?
Gone are Dubbo and Ginger Dawes ;
Gone is the Sprig o’ Myrtle, too ;
Incontrovertible rules and laws
Grassed them, as others they used to do,
Counted them out as they slowly died,
Gave no quarter and saw no sign—
Gorry and many a man beside.
Where are the fighters of 'Forty-Nine ?
Death at the last gave the knock-out blow,
Sent them to sleep by the cypress tree,
Heard the last count of the seconds slow,
And Time was the callpus referee.
Nor bluff nor stoush hold him off for long ;
No match can be cancelled by fee or fine ;
You must fight in that ring whether weak or strong !
Where are the fighters of ’Forty-Nine?
Prince, this our end is ! All must go
To the desert’s sand or the ocean’s brine ;
Coward and brave take the knock-out blow.
Where are the fighters of ’Forty-Nine?
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
CONSTIPATION AND LIVER
COMPLAINT.
A Well-Known Grocer Praises Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills for His Restoration
to Health.
Mr. W. H. Jones, of 19 Rosser Street. Rozelle,
one of Balmain’s oldest residents, tells in his
letter to the proprietors of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills how this wonderful remedy, by regu-
lating the bowels and correcting the liver, restored
him to health and strength. With his kind
permission we publish his photo, together with his
letter, which is as follows :
“Some few years ago 1 suffered acutely from
constipation, liver complaint and greatly im-
paired health, and my whole system became
Mr. W. H. Jones.
(From a photo.)
deranged. I tried many
medicines, but nothing was
as good a corrective as Dr,
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
They put my bowels into
perfect working order,
overcame my liver troubles,
and my health became as
well as I could wish it.
As a purgative medicine I
always strongly recom-
mend them, and a dose
occasionally keeps me in
the best of "health. I may
add that the most part of
my life I have spent in
Balmain, and for 27 years
I have kept this shop, and,
therefore, I claim to be one
of the oldest residents of Rozelle, and am conse-
quently well known.”
Only about one man or woman in a hundred is
perfectly healthy. The other 99 have some
digestive trouble, and perhaps more than 50 per
cent, of these could trace their trouble to that
most prevalent evil—constipation. It’s a simple
thing of itself, but, like many simple things, it
may grow and become complicated. Constipation
is the root of nine-tenths of the sickness of man,
and a large proportion of the sickness of women.
Nature often requires a little assistance, and if
this assistance is given at the first indication
much distress and suffering may be averted.*


“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT
MEANS
Greater Power on Hills
AND
More Miles per Gallon.
m
m
A BOIL IN THE KETTLE
■ •' i
is worth TWO on the neck, and a good honest cycle (locally built)
is worth a dozen of the ordinary imported makes. That’s the
B. and B. MODEL 3 Price £ll.
It’s a daisy—fitted wir.h the finest tyres and guaranteed for a year.
Send for our New 1909 Catalogue. Mention this paper when writing.
Our Pitt Street Depdt is open every Friday till 9 p.m.
BENNETT & BRRKELL,
Largest Cycle Building-
House in the State,”
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagti Street,
Sydney.
ANDREW McGEE
Maybe you’ve a friend in
the Old Land to whom you’d
like to send a Pipe or Shaving-
Outfit.
Mails leave Sydney for London.
November 16, arrive December 19.
November 23, arrive December 24.
November 30, arrive January 2.
APPROPRIATE SUGGESTIONS.-
Gillette Safety Razor, 12 Blades, in Handsome Case. Price, 21/- and 22/6.
Auto Strop Safety Razor, 12 Blades, 25/- Packed free of charge.
A Barling London-Made Pipe, in Case, from 10/- to 30/- each.
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist & Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 Castlereagrh Street, cr. Hunter Street, Sydney.
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAY.
fdg
.PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
are Better—Stronger—and More Durable Tyres
than all others —— „
Their immense popularity with Motorists is suf-
ficient reason why YOU should investigate their
merits before coming to a buying decision ♦
Catalogue and Price List on application.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY
279 George Street, Sydney.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
fd
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
Price £l,
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel cornels. Price £1 7s. 6d. ;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/=-
HEINDOR.FF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE.
A
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA,
g
A. M. L. S F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stocß and Station Agents.
CAPITAL ... .... £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land# Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Blig'h Street, SYDNEY.
b
0
m
m
it
iml
llil
'•KS?
a
I
illVAl
' *# »* <•
ut:n
:*'> V *** ii
t
m
kw
*1 %Z\
•«. is***.
> :
V.
,'t;
:**r
■3'
SP
a
'm*«n
f,
■i
Sis
■ /
1
I
V
v J
V
. ■
li
‘/K ‘3 -1 i\
, ■/• -.■: '• - : • : ’ ' ■ \
‘ - ' i >v Z.-M&J’vk H ' .\,
•• sHH m fflMfflm?
•• > .
mi
** ■
fk ..±:\'A i
isf
ia
m
ssaMfc-
s*swk®
•33
mfm-
.
| Iftp?;.;
«.! Jf 3.''. >
. .
v,-:
A BIG BELT
for the North Mine,
Broken Hill.
Weight - 2| tons
Length - 1000 feet
Width - 2 feet
ALL THE LEADING
MINE MANAGERS
now specify “Dunlop”
Belts, they having
proved their worth. No
other Belts approach
them for Quality and
Durability.
Samples and Prices Submitted
and Satisfaction Guaranteed.
dfg
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, mi CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z
A new kind of Christian —the Empty
Stomach Christian —was diagnosed in the Tas-
manian Assembly during the shindy which led to
the downfall of the Earle Government: —
Mr. Rattle said during the railway management debate
in the Assembly that he had been shocked at hearing that
last Sunday a train had left Hobart for Launceston.
(Laughter.) He had lately introduced an influential
deputation to the Minister protesting against another
train, and was surprised that the thing had occurred
again. However, he had reflected, and remembered that
the Labor party was in office last Sunday. (Laughter.)
The Minister: I never promised to stop theatrical
trains.
Mr. Watkins : Would you favor the stopping of trains?
Mr. Rattle : I don’t know. (Laughter.)
The Premier : And O’May’s steamers?
Mr. Rattle : Well, you can’t swim across. (“ Oh ! Oh ! ”
and laughter.)
Mr. Dicker: Will you forbid the cooking of Sunday
dinners?
Mr. Rattle : I
Mr. Watkins : We only want you to be consistent.
Mr. Rattle : There are some reforms that are wanted in
the department, I know.
Mr. Watkins: Then help us to-night to get them by
supporting us.
Mr. Rattle : No, I can’t go that far.
Mr. Dicker : Pooh ! You are only a Christian reformer
on an empty stomach. (Laughter.)
The Chairman : Order !
And the Empty Stomach Christian collapsed.
While N.S.W. Legislative Council was
doddering over the Closer Settlement Amendment
Bill, t’other night:—
The Vice-President of the Executive Council :
Owners df land such as he had referred to had already signi-
fied their intention of meeting the wishes of the Govern-
ment as far as they possibly could. ... He did not see
what possible harm could be done to a man who could
get his own price for his own article.
Mr. Dangar : I can tell you what harm there is. You
take away a man’s occupation. You don’t care a jot
about that.
It is an awful thing to contemplate—this beastly
interfering with big estates will deprive the poor
landlord of his occupation; it will do him out of
his job ; IT WILL THROW HIM OUT of work ! And
—oh, bitter thought!—the Government (the land-
lord’s own Anti-Sosh Government) doesn’t care a
jot!
“Anti Fat ” : A recent outburst from J.
M. Davies in the Vie. Legislative Council lit a
torch within me that took four beers to quench.
According to Melb. Age, Davies unloaded the
following deduction upon Premier Weary’s Elec-
toral Reform Bill:
If hon. members agreed to abolish the ratepayers’ roll
for Assembly elections, it and all its machinery would
still be in use for the Legislative Council. The next cry
would be, “Look what it costs for the Legislative Coun-
cil. . . . Let us abolish the rolls for the Legislative
Council.”
If the electors of Victoria ever think up to that
point, they might go on thinking in a reckless
manner until they suddenly decided that it would
be more convenient and economical to go the
entire animal that you don’t meet on the Hebrew
dinner-table, and abolish the House of Rich
Landlords with one fell, not to say ferocious,
swoop. Then, as there would be no further use
for the ratepayers’ roll, it could be thrown after
the fleeing form of Davies as he ran home, an
abolished man.
All Melbourne doesn’t go to the great
race. The Bay beaches and the picnic trains
draw their thousands ; and other thousands line
the route from the course after the big event is
over. On Cup Day all roads lead to Flemington,
but there is only one road back ; and from three
o’clock onwards thousands spread themselves
along the reserves facing Royal Park and watch
the stream of carts, jinkers, lorries, buggies, cabs
and, of late years, motors. The first hasting
traveller, generally a cyclist, is hailed all along
the route with “ What’s won, Mister?” and after
that the watchers scan the faces and sum up
the travellers’ feelings. The densest throngs of
watchers ire packed at the awkward corners;
they ha\o seen spills there before to-day,
and some day, when Holy Moses has had
a skinner and the disgusted backers are
tearing away from the scene of their busted
hopes, there will be a gorgeous smash. The
motor gets more frequent and more disastrous.
On Derby morning one machine was being driven
out easily while another was returning at a smart
pace. The road is two chains wide, but that
wasn’t enough, so one crashed straight into the
other—and three people spent Derby and Cup
days in hospital. Then, on Sunday evening, a
cheerful chauffeur drove some friends down to
Brighton. He returned along the line of Tait’s
electric tram, where the posts are obtrusive and
the road disgraceful. His wheel got into a rut,
and when it finally got out the machine ran full
tilt into a solid post—-and four persons were sent
to the hospital and one to the Morgue. And on
Cup night a Malvern citizen took one step off the
pavement —and reached the cemetery with the
next. The car is always said to be capable of stop-
ping in its own length or thereabouts ; but when
it is urgently required to do so it frequently
doesn’t. Which is why the crowd that watches
the returning racegoers grows more expectant.
“Rooinek,” from South Africa :
As showing how the daily press tries to manufacture
bogus public opinion in other places as well as in Aus-
tralia, the attitude of the Natal press towards South
African Unification was most instructive. For months
the papers were filled with articles and letters denounc-
ing the proposal, and nothing in its favor ever appeared.
All the other States had become resigned to the idea of
Natal standing out, as public opinion there seemed to be
almost unanimous against union. Then came the refer-
endum. Natal as a whole gave a three-to-one majority
for Unification, and every district in Natal gave a majority
in its favor. The press announced the results next day,
and the rest was silence.


AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
LIFE ASSURANCE.
ENDOWMENT ASSURANCE.
CHILDREN’S ENDOWMENTS.
income for 1908 15 per
cent . increase on figures
for 1997.
Directors s
R. M. PHILLIPS, Esq., J.P.,
VICTOR E. LUDLOW, L.R.C.5.1.,
L.K.Q.C.P.1.,
CLAUDE MANNING. Esq.,
DAVID W. WATKINS, Esq.,
H. MONTGOMERIE HAMILTON, Esq.
General Manager : J. A. HENDERSON.
Secietary: FREEMAN J. EATON.
Consulting Actuary : W. R. DAY, F.I.A.
Principal Offices :
VICTORIA—I4B Quren Street, Melbourne ; NEW SOUTH WALES-30 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; QUEENSLAND—Metropolitan Buildings, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
“LITTLE KRAG” RIFLE NO. 65
gai
BOLT ACTION. SIMPLE CONSTRUCTION.
Weighs 3X pounds. For .22 Long Rifle R. F. Cartridges.
STEVENS RIFLES hold more Records for accuracy than all other
makes combined.
Order
STEVENS
from your
Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[4
ye
<6.
THIS IS THE RAZOR
That we, as practical hairdressers, can guarantee to
give you a perfect, clean and comfortable shave every
day in the year. THE PLUM, Price 10/6, Post
Free anywhere. With the keen shaving edge that
recpiires little stropping and is always satisfactory.
We will keep the
Plum in yood order
for two years free
of charge.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
Tlie Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6tl
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, Gel
All the above Post Free,
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 'lb Years.
HOME
NEW
MEDICAL APPARATUS
mW BATTERT
I _
<7-
W>.
I
*
I
3®
PRICE 35/-, Post Free.
An Electric Battery
at SMALL COST.
A Battery NO Home should be
without these Summer Months.
Efficacious—reliable for Lassitude,
Want of Tone, Nervousness, and
all Climatic Ailments.
A Battery easily worked—can be
adapted from the youngest to the
eldest member of the family, and
costs nothing’ to maintain.
TRY THE
“ HOME " BA TTERY.
JORDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL.
SYDNEY.
NATURAL
ENO’
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
df
BY
APPOINTMENT
Sr.
V V
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUEB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Pr- for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays ihe Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
gdfd
g
The truss is obsolete—useless ! But there is a rupture
treatment that goes to the root of*the trouble, gives instant
relief, and eventually effects a permanent cure.
Will you take the trouble to investigate its merits ? That
costs you nothing, and we can demonstrate how wonderfully
effective
The Dr. J. A. Sherman Treatment
has been in hundreds of the most distressing cases.
Here is a brief extract from a N.Z. letter—similar to many
others :
47 Tinakori Eoad, Wellington.
Dear Sir,
I underwent your treatment and fail to find any indications
of the trouble, even after a long day’s walking or bicycle riding,
so I am positive I have been completely cured.
Yours faithfully,
j. S. FAULKNER.
It will be worth while taking advantage of our free consulta-
tion even if you take a day or so off to come in from the country.
Our descriptive books will be sent post free to any inquirer who
cannot call.
HOURS:—Daily (Sundays excepted), 10 a.in. to 12 noon;
2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays, 10 a.rn. to 12 noon. Extra hours :
Friday evenings, 7 to 9.
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller in
Australasia of the
Dr. J. A. Sherman Treatment,
Dept. B, Gibbs’ Chambers, 7 Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Years ago Kilmore (Vic.) builded
itself a big gaol with gallows all complete, and installed
warders and sat down to await business. But none came.
Barring astray drunk or two at rare intervals, the huge
blue barracks remained untenanted and forlorn. No one
came there to get hanged. It was a public and clamant
frost. And then the Government came along and closed
the unneeded edifice with a hang. It has now been
transformed into a butter factory. The Kilmore Dairy
Co. stepped in and bought it, lock, stock, gibbet and
flogging apparatus, for £3OO. Gaols make splendid butter
factories, for their thick, solid walls promote cooltb, and
the ventilation is generally good, and the gallows is acon-
venient place from which to suspend the bacon, and the
cheese can be kept in the dark cell, and the milk can be
stirred up (if the stirring up of milk is part of the pro-
cess) with the leg of the flogging paraphernalia.
***■#
“ Diklark ” : If the mini who wrote (B. 30/9/’O9)
about “slinks” wants to bet about them, and thus settle
the argument, I’m on. He talks about slinks coming into
the Melbourne market by the ton, and of slinks two day s
old being sold for 15s. to ]7s. 6d. As a matter of fact,
there is nowadays in Melbourne a rigid system of inspec-
tion splendidly carried out, under which no calf under
401 b. weight is allowed to be branded by the inspector
and pass into consumption ; and for selling meat not
branded a heavy penalty can be, and is, inflicted (see
enclosed extract from Age of 12th October). Further,
even after the meat is bianded and hung in the butcher’s
shop, an inspector can, and does, call round and condemn
the meat when necessary, in which case the loss falls on
the batcher. As for a slink bringing 15s. to 17s. Cd.,
I'll bet the writer that he has never known a slink to
briny 4<l. per lb. in his life. I saw a beautiful calf oi
1301 b. weijrht briny 4 Jib. per lb. in one of the auction
rooms, and that, I believe, is the record price. It
was cheap, too; but it was not a slink. Previous to
the passing of the Meat Supervision Act slinks were
sold bv the hundred in Melbourne, and were undoubtedly
used for choppiuy ; but thinys are different now, and the
Melbourne meat supply lias become the finest in the
Southern Hemisphere.
* * * •
“Gundy” : Was engaged ring-barking thistles
and winnowiny pumpkins at Greasy Gully when the boss
yave me an afternoon off to enjoy myself at Fagan’s clear-
ing sale. I’m ylad I went. Everybody went. The road-
men’s dray was tipped up on tile embankment and the
camp deserted. The binders lay idle beside the oyer-ripe
crops. Even the pub was abandoned. At Fagan's the
auctioneer was just starting to sell the land. Several
hefty scions of the interested family bail been busy deal-
ing out whisky and beer to the crowd, most of whom
made a show of resistance, as if they had not come on
purpose to get a cheap tight. The land was run up to
£7 155., or about a third too much, and the purple-hosed
gentleman was trying 10 squeeze a bob an acre more
from the cocky whose land was adjoining. “Come on,
Sandy, what’s a hob? Why, man, you’d spend that in
one shout!” It meant £l5 on the lot; and the remark
flattered Sandy, who isn’t noted as a spendthrift. He
went the extra bob. The auctioneer didn’t take any more
bids from the verandah post, but closed the bargain
promptly. Sandy’s family will have to scratch gravel
for a while. We then adjourned to the stock and
farm implements ; also the refreshments. As the audi-
ence began to gel lively there was some spirited
competition, and the ladies had a busy time rushing their
worse halves away from the scene of disastrous pur-
chases. Fights were plentiful as grass-seeds, and towards
the finish, when the local cop had given it up as a bad
job and gone peacefully home, a band of partinlly-drunken
young rowdies broke loose. Wheel-nuts were taken off,
causing spills wholesale when the vehicles moved off: and
horses and harness were scattered. Going down the
road one young blood tried to jump a raw colt over the
roadmen’s tent, and fell in. The pick-and-shovel mani-
pulators, who had just got home, were not ex-
pecting visitors from that quarter, and pursued the
intruder with axes and sulphuretted remarks. We
called at the pub going home, and Bung, who, through
the intervention of Mrs. 8., had not attended the sale,
seemed dissatisfied. “ I wanted to go to the sale, but
Maria says, ‘ What do you want at the sale when you can
get drunk at home?’ I s’pose things went cheap.” I
said that the well went for a mere sorlg. “ There y’are,
Maria! Jim Fagin’s well sold for next to nothing. I
knew there would be bargains.” I like a sale. There is
only one other occasion which draws a rural crowd as
well. That’s a funeral.
“F.J.W.”: I have been cruising round the
only slice of North Island (M.L.) that isn’t in a more or
less petrified state at present. This is Taranaki, where
old Egmoiit rears his magnificent white head above the
clouds. I once lived in the Western district of Victoria,
and, having escaped, prayed long and fervently
that never again might I have to spend more
than one day at a time in 'the land of Cow.
But for worship of Oow the Western District isn’t
in it with Taranaki. In the hotel it’s “ Butterfat,”
“Three dry this week,” “Doing 64,” and such weird
things with every meal and every drink. Everyone talks
Cow. And when he doesn’t talk Cow he talks Land.
There must be hundreds of agents in the district. Any-
one who can get a table and a chair, and hire a type-
writer and any old thing for an office, hoists the sign.
One laid his hand on my coat-collar and bubbled over.
“ Now, there's a piece of land ! I sold it first for £lO an
acre ; and I’ve sold it five times since then, and yesterday
it brought £65 per acre. Every buyer made money, and
it’ll go to £lOO yet. Magnificent country, old chap,
productive powers indescribable, and I could let two-
thirds of it stand on mortgage at 7 per cent if you ”
Just there I had to block him, assuring him that my pur-
chasing powers were four bob. Then I asked him if this
piling up of land values was not responsible for child
slavery and the degeneration of the race. “My dear
fellow,” he said, “we pay too much attention to
future generations, and are sadly neglecting ourselves in
consequence.” The thought of this land shark neglecting
himself shook me up a bit, and I hastened to a spot where
I could have at least one brandy and soda in peace.
PRIMARY INDUSTRIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One speaker urged that a land was healthiest and hap-
piest when dependent on primary industries. Under
Freetrade the garden flourished before the factory, and the
garden was in the nature of things a happier place than
the factory.— English paper.
To cultivate a cabbage and to make a pumpkin grow
Is the very highest destiny that any man can know ;
And the gayest of companions is a dung-fork or a spade
In a happy land possessing all the blessings of Freetrade.
How frisky in the morning are the turnips on the breeze !
Ilow at tles ly appealing are the rows of nodding peas !
llow chivalrous the onion, with its long and gleaming
blade !
How virtuous the lettuce that is nurtured on Freetrade !
But, oli, how sad the beetroot where Protection casts its
blight!
Tlure the bitter slugs in millions eat the radishes all
night;
Asparagus will wither, scarlet runners pine and fade—
They have nothing- left to live for in a land without Free-
trade
Yes, the cauliflowers all languish, and the parsnips pine
and die,
And the Brussels sprouts are eaten by the warlike cab-
bage-fly ;
And the caterpillars muster, and the beetles make their
raid
In the sad, forsaken country’ that lias given up Fre trade.
For your common sense will tell you that imported cotton
rags
Cause the leek to wave and flourish, raise the rhubarb
when it sags,
And that all the cress and mustard will immediately fade
If they lose the dew and nurture of miraculous Freetrade.
Then beware ! For every garden turns to desert straight
away 7,
And not a flower will flourish or a vegetable sta.v
In a country where a single useful article is made,
And you'll never have a salad if you once give up Free-
trade !
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.


BEALE PIANOS
/i
y.
? md
o
c
,x
o
iO
A
&
i;
w
v
K for >.*?
£ianq§.
H'
El
A
Q
V
4
»»M»
If?
z
Mf,s
i
/
The London MUSIC TRADES REVIEW, of Isth September last, wrote os
follows under the Heading—
Hints for the Australian Piano Trade.
“According to Australian trade experts, British and German pianoforte manu-
facturers, who have secured practically all the trade with Australia, do not always
recognise in how far the climate of that country differs from that of India. They
often make the mistake of sending so-called ‘tropical’ pianos, which would bo
suitable for, say, Calcutta, which has a hot but humid climate, to Australia,
where the heat is just as intense, but of a dry kind. IVloreover, the Australians
love instruments with a heavy iron frame; the more a piano weighs the better
value for their money they believe they obtain.
“But a moment’s thought will show that dry heat will expand the frame and
contract the sound-board, thereby often causing the latter to burst. The better
quality the sound-board, the more liable it is to crack.”
These are candid statements meant for the guidance of foreign manufacturers—and the very few British—■
who still ship so largely to Australia. .Next to the tuning-plate (or wrest-plank) the sounding-board is the next
important part of a piano. Ours are made in Australia, for Australia, in the largest piano factory of the British
Empire. \\ e absolutely guarantee both wrest-plank and sounding-board to be wholly immune from the influence
of any climate.
More than twelve thousand are already in use, and our output barely keeps pace with the increasing demand.
Ihree times as many Beale Pianos are sold in Australia as those of any other maker.
lliey are not the cheapest, but they are along way the best. Why not exchange the foreign article and
buy a real pleasure for your home ?
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 3 D ™l s o7 m 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street Brisbane (next G.P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Qoulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
r
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE . Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call .
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms . 25 Years’ Guarantee - Repairs and Tuning.
OSd Pianos Allowed For . Direct from Factory to Family .
Save importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers .


IN BANANA LAND.
“Ash” writes :
The prickly pear curse spreads fast in Queensland.
Recently the Miles shire clerk received an application
from a hotelkeeper whose pub is being enclosed by it
and who wants relief. Customers leaving at a late hour
fall into the pear, it seems, and this discourages them,
and the drinkery threatens to become inaccessible. The
applicant didn’t say whether he had attempted to restrain
the pear by pouring beer over it; but presumably he has
done everything that a man can do. Thegreat pear tragedy
hasn’t actually arrived yet in Queensland, but anyone can
see it coming. It may come at this very pub. One even-
ing the local drinkers may go in through the last narrow
opening in the pear entrenchment. When they try to
come out they may find the opening overgrown and
closed. Then they will naturally try to beat down the
pear with empty bottles, but they will probably fail.
They will consume what liquor the hotel contains, and
call for help. After that beer may be thrown over to
them for a while to keep them alive, but as the girdle of
vegetation widens, the beer will begin to fall into the
pear. It being obvious waste to throw beer into pear,
the rescuers will become discouraged and will go away.
Tiie prisoners will try vainly to tunnel under the pear.
Some of them will go mad and throw themselves into the
pear. The pear, with their dead bodies impaled upon it
—nothing is more horrifying than the sight of dead
bodies impaled upon pear—will get into the threepenny
bar. Then, despite the most desperate resistance, it wiil
fight its way into the sixpenny bar. Some people will
have their retreat cut off in the billiard-room, and will
perish miserably, throwing the billiard ball at the enemy
in their last moments. The man who is down in the
cellar will utter a wild cry one morning, when he
finds that there is a ton of prickly pear on the cellar flap
and escape is no longer possible. He will call up wildly
to the man on the roof, giving him a last message for his
wife and his 11 children all under six years of age. The
man on the roof won’t be able to hear because of inter-
vening pear. He will take off his boots and hit the
approaching pear with them. He will fight it desperately
with his hat. At last, after three weeks’ struggle, he will
he driven to the top of the chimney. By this time he
will be an institution, and the Railway Department will
run special trains to see him. Prayers will be offered up
for him in the churches. Bread and cheese will be shot
at him with cannon. There will be such a demand
for telescopes to see him with that telegrams will
be sent to Melbourne and Sydney ordering large
consignments of telescopes. The balloon which tries to
rescue him will drop into the pear. The balloonist—the
father of a large family—will be seen for a moment swim-
ming desperately on top of the pear ; then he will sink
and be visible no more. The member for Smith’s Curse
will give notice of motion on the subject, but, owing to
pressure of business, the matter won’t be reached for 18
months. The Kid-Philp Government will give a guarded
answer to a question asked without notice re a possible
grant to the man on the top of the chimney who is still
hitting the advancing cactus with his boots and his hat.
Finally, the cactus will grow over the chimney, and he
will disappear, and the license of the house wiil be
transferred.
“Queenslander”: A summary of late
Queensland elections : All the pastoral districts
returned Labor members, and so did all the
mining ditto, Croydon excepted ; and Croydon
returns an Independent Democrat. The big
towns —Brisbane, Brisbane South, Rockhampton,
Maryborough, Toowoomba—have gone back to
their Conservative wallow again. The Govern-
ment lost four seats and gained eight ; Labor
also lost four and gained eight. Every seat lost
by the Government was gained by Labor, and every
seat lost by Labor was gained by the Government.
Some 17 seats have changed occupants —about
the average for a Queensland election. The
greatest revolution at any Q election took place
in 1904, when the Philp party dropped down to
17 all told, and Labor rose to 34. This was
Labor’s high-water mark, and it was attained,
strange to say, under the old property franchise.
Philp now numbers 35 of the Government’s follow-
ing of 41 as his own true-blue Tory disciples, and
the heart of the Northern Fat Man is filled again
with joy.
Chamberlain’s Tablets not only move the
bowels, but strengthen the digestion and correct
disorders of the liver,*
Captain Mackay, harbor master at Bris-
bane, has been sticking a pin into a cherished
yarn of the Far North. Cooktown has a tree
which wears a label to the effect that it is the
identical vegetable to which the discoverer of the
place tied up the Endeavor when he dawdled
there on his way to dinner at Tahiti. Nobody
seems to know who stuck up the label, for the
ancient history of Cooktown is obscured by the
thickest rum-fumes that ever hung over any
place in Australia. Mackay, however, who
was harbor master there in the days when
22 pubs were furiously manufacturing the mist,
has an idea that the signboard was merely shoved
up on general principles by some coasting ship-
master of antiquarian tastes. From the look of the
tree he reckons that it was not born until 50 years
or so after Cook had been eaten ; and, anyhow,
there’s no evidence whatever that Cook tied his
navy up to any tree, born or unborn. Still Cook-
town has so mighty little to talk of these times,
except the drunks it used to have, that it seems
almost a pity to punch holes in about the only
really sober relic it possesses, and to undermine
the one topic of conversation that doesn’t either
start or end in a jamboree.
Apparently a change is coming over the
spirit of Queensland Laborites. Mat Reid, presi-
dent of the Central Political Executive, dis-
tinguished himself during the recent elections by
denouncing the Independent Democratic party.
By so doing he gave grievous offence to some
members of the Parliamentary Labor party, who
expressed their views about it very frankly. Con-
sequently Reid has tendered his resign’ation.
So far the idea of the Queensland Labor In-
tolerants has been that the more of the Labor
policy a man adopted the harder he ought to he
hit; so the number of members ready to give it
a helping hand gradually dwindled, and the
party’s hopes of getting desired reforms have
depended more and more upon its capacity to get
an absolute majority of its own. And, after
waiting 17 years for this majority without getting
it, some members begin to think'there’s a mistake
in tactics somewhere.
THAT VAIN REGRET.
WIFE : “ You never dared
treat vie like thin before we were
married. lonly wish we were engaged again.”
HUSBAND: “So do I. Id break it off.”
Recent advertisement from the Winton
(Q.) Herald :
“M OTICE.— Owing to the high price of flour, on and
after the first day of October next, the price of
the 21b. loaf will be sixpence until further notice.—
Sun Kcm Wau, Yee Hap, Ox Kke.
Apparently not a white baker in the place.
And yet Winton is “straight Labor”! It is
about time some of these Western towns, which
talk a good deal about political rats in Brisbane,
started to inquire if there are not some more
dangerous rats nearer home.
“ Itan ” : The cane-cutter of to-day is not
the wild, hilarious gentleman of the past. When
Queensland’s bargain to return Tommy Tanna to
his islands was carried out by the Australian
Government, the Tory was horrified at the
thought of the low-ciass white labor which
he was sure he would have to employ.
But just as the shearer lias tamed down, so
has the eane-cutter; and the labor offering this
year in Bananaland is a much better lot than it ever
was before. This, of course, was no more than
was to be expected. In the Tommy Tanna days
the growers, when they employed white labor at
all, got only a very poor class, simply because
very few decent steady men would put up with
the abominable housing and other conditions
offered. If adecen t man did happen to go north once,
he took care lie didn’t go twice. But conditions
have gradually been improved. And nowadays
the cutter is a thrifty, steady worker who doesn’t
merely toil for the profit of the adjacent publican.
There are dozens of casual references to the
change. Thus the papers mentioned that on a
recent pay Saturday in the Herbert River district
the post office was besieged by men paying into
bank accounts. The Court roll on the next Mon-
day consisted of four minor offences, and the local
police remember the time—in the days of Tommy
Tanna—when they used to have so many prisoners
on pay days that the lock-up was crowded out by
Saturday sundown.
When you have a sick headache take
Chamberlain’s Tablets; their marvellous influence
on the liver and bowels put an end to it every
time,*
Bananaland’s new Agent-General, Robin-
son, used to be a keen defence advocate, and pro-
bably is still, though it’s years since he lived in
Australia. Away back in the past, when resi-
dent at Rockhampton (Q.), he held a commission
in the local corps ; and amongst those at whom he
barked orders like “shalloo hoop,” and the like,
was Private Kidston—now a much more public
Kidston than he was when Robinson ordered him
about.
“ Myrtle ” describes a real bishop
The life of the prelate in the Far North of Bananaland is
not mere palace and garden party. As an instance,
Frodsham, the head of the Anglican shepherds in that
locality, lives the strenuous buzz between prayers. Re-
cently he travelled to Cloncurry—his head station is at
Townsville—then hurried over 300 miles of country to the
south-west of the copper township. He is alleged
to bear patiently flies, bad water, dust and refrac-
tory horses (he never swears at a horse), and
he pervades even the outermost corner and furthest
hem of his spiritual run, which covers pretty nearly half a
big State. But he discards his bishop’s scarecrow uniform
on his travels, and pokes his nose in where not even a
parson has said “ Amen ” for 20 years, and there he urges
the local heathen to turn down the beer-stained-and-blue-
adjectived leaf and start on a fresh one. His “churches ”
vary from a shady gum to a tent or a blacksmith’s shop,
though he sometimes rises to the flashness of a humpy.
For all that, he reckons it’s a fine country.
“L.L.” : The confirmed Queenslander’s
deep-rooted objection to farming is a mild, tame-
curate affair compared with his antipathy to
gardening. For barrenness nothing can beat the
environs of a Bananaland cocky’s residence. A
southerner is struck by the absence of a flower
garden to tame the ugliness of a house that often
perches on ant-proof, tin-plated piles, Oft. up in
the atmosphere. Yet the more closely-settled
park of the Northern State has a climate which
grows flowers to perfection. Most annuals, if not
kept in hand, would spread as fast as prickly pear.
But if you mention flowers to the backbone of
Phidston’s land, he says, “They don’t bring in
nothin’.” Fowls, therefore, camp on the front
steps, cows in the lee of the kitchen, and numerous
half-naked young backbones of the country hide
under the house on the approach of a stranger.
This space under the house is variously used
as a cart-shed, a dairy, a bathroom, a fowl-
house, a timber yard, a woodheap, a barn,
a dog camp, a carpenter’s shop, a bedroom,
a meat house, a general rubbish bin, and a shelter
for anything that is crowded out of the upper
house or that would be accommodated outside the
garden fence in a well ordered community.
“S. S. Severn” writes from the upper
part of the map :
Murray Island, in Torres Strait, is a paradise in appear-
ance. To keep it from overdoing the thing, it has
one or two particularly demoniac customs. Amongst
them is the pourri-pourri of the alligator’s tooth. Only
two old medicine men know it. It kills a man at any
distance. No gun ever heard of carries so far. Old
Mooka offered to “finish ” a man at the bottom of the sea
in a diving dress, just to show me. I thought not. So
he taught me how to pourri-pourri a boat on to a sand-
bank. I did the trick, months after, to a launch, and it
went on the bank sure enough. Another device is the
pourri-pourri of the unmentionable. The wizard creeps
up to a sleeping man and sprinkles some powder—con-
sisting mostly of dried dead men—on whichever part
of him he purposes to destroy. Next morning
the pourri-pourried one feels a slight tingling. It is
followed the day after by a small sore. By the third day
the part has rotted and the possessor is taboo.
Also, Nothing that comes up out of the sea is allowed
to live. This custom applies to humans as well as to
birds and beasts and fish. At the annual canoe contests
if a vessel capsizes and is righted the people in it are
permitted to come ashore. But should the canoe sink
and the canoeists try to swim to land their friends spear
them.
One woman’s wit saved her. She was fishing outside
the reef when a sudden squall sank her little dugout.
She swam round to the back of the island and hid
amongst the mangrove roots. When darkness catne she
crept to the fringe of bush about the huts and called
softly to her husband. He told her to die as she was already
dead. Finally, on the understanding that he would keep
dark on the subject of her refusal to die she bargained to
supply him with crabs and crayfish. Night by night for
three months she made her offering at the door of his
hut, and hid in the bush by day. But one evening when
the husband came home she and a new-born man-child
sat before the fire.
“ This is thy son,” she said, “ and I am his mother. He
needs me.”
The husband thought this a fair proposition, and told
the king that she had been away visiting her mother on
another island and had just come hopie. The king agreed
to believe the story with difficulty, , ...
The Cow!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in court, and a witness was asked, “ What is
your religion ?” Replied the uian front Bogantungun :
“ I am a milker.” — New* item.
LO the Milker ! See him bow
To his meek-eyed goddess now,
To the ample front and peaceful
Of the Cow !
Hear him tell the tale that pleases,
Tale of butter, cream and cheeses—
See him tend her, lowly bending
As her blessings flow unending
For the slaves who do their duty
To the ruminating beauty
Who is Cow !
Lo the Milker ! See hint bow,
Bending head and sunken brow
To his horned and hairy mistress,
Who is Cow !
He’s a callous-handed peasant,
And his ways may not be pleasant,
But his brother yokels near him
Often list and softly hear him
Bid the grateful sons of Adam
Bless the swelling bags of Madam—
Who is Cow !
For the Milker, he has faith,
Not in shadowy spook or wraith,
Not in mystic myth or dogma,
But in Cow !
She is Anchor, she is Rudder
To his Spirit, while her Udder
Gets obeisance reverential
As the fount of good potential,
And his Latter-Day Shekinah
Is the bovine front of Dinah
Who is Cow !
And he begs—not daily bread,
Daily toil or nightly shed,
And he never prays but one thing—
“ Give us Cow !
Let us bend our backs before her,
Let us mutter blessings o’er her,
Let us love her like a mother,
Let us house her like a brother,
Throne her like the calf of Aaron,
Prize her like the Rose of Sharon—
Her—The Cow 11!”
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 6, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah, —
Invitations are out for a reception at the vice-
regal residence on the 18th inst., after which tur-
moil the deputy vice-regal Morgan folk will return
to their Warwick fastness until they are required
in town to swear-in the clan Macgregor.
A returned wanderer tells me of the rage for
aviation in Europe. Even the popularity of
bridge parties is threatened. People go out in
all weathers to see the ungainly fowls make their
labored flight, and prizes for champion aeroplanes
are as common as they are in Australia for pump-
kins.
This mention of fowls reminds me. If there is
one thing I flatter myself I can do, it is to carve a
duck. There is a subtle mystery about its
anatomy that early aroused my interest; with
the result that I now understand to a nicety the
curve of its silly side-bones and its boomerang-
like merry thought. You will, therefore, under-
stand my natural annoyance one day last week
when at a small lunch-party I discovered quite a
new variety of the waddlesome biped. I was
deputed by my hostess to take it apart. At a
first cursory glance it iooked a bit queer. This
aspect seemed to strike the lady of the house like-
wise, and in a voice which she tried to keep free
from anxiety she suggested that I might find it
easier if I turned it over. I am at all times
willing to act upon a suggestion, and I
whirled it over. I revolved it swiftly on its own
axis in the gravy. Well, attacked from that
side, that duck was built upon the lines of
a corrugated iron tank, and after a Struggle of
some seven minutes the patent clamps that
moored the wings to the body still held, and
nothing under a charge of dynamite seemed likely
to shift them. It seemed impolite to ask for the
loan of the kitchen chopper at a woman’s feed, so
I decided to battle on. I should have been there
yet, with the party slowly dying of starvation, if
it had not occurred to me that the fowl was of an
entirely new species, and that his joints might be
arranged on a new plan. So I turned him over
again and found, to my joy, that his wish-bone
grew just round his apologies for shoulders, and
that his breast was there too. So I firmly
separated him, and the hungering women fed on
serried scraps that looked like fragments torn by
infuriated dingoes from the carcase of a bullock.
The hostess assures me, nevertheless, that she
bought it for duck. If it wasn’t duck she doesn’t
know what it could be. But I have my suspicions.
It may have been somebody’s airship.
Our Archbishop has been declaring that the
morals of the Commonwealth are so shocking that
we’ll soon not have a soul left to save if we don’t cool
our passions. Now a highly righteous citizen,
lately returned from England, whispers to me
with bated breath that one day, being stranded
for set plans in London, she decided to have a
stroll down the Burlington Arcade, and that she
was there attracted by some very pretty (may I
say it ?) garters hanging upon a sort of glorified
clothes-line. Happily, before she got the length
of inquiring the price, she looked at the mottoes
engraved upon the elaborate buckles, and there- •
upon she fled. That such things should be in
saintly England, where risky postcards are all
declared to be American, French or German !
Also the foyer of more than one music hall in the
city where his Grace "was once wont to minister
to the mind diseased ought to have taught him
better than to run down Australian morality as a
particularly rackety thing. It’s that love of
stinking-fish-erying that captures them all.
The very latest engagement has to do with Miss
Esme Grey of Ipswich, and Mr. Shand of Too-
wong.
The House, on assembling, got one shock.
“Jimmy” Blair was minus his moustache, the
loss of which, I hear, he greatly deplores. It is,
however, by the doctor’s orders that it is shorn, and
(although I don’t expect him. to believe me) the
razoring has displayed a well-cut chin and afighting
jaw that are worth more than any amount of hair
on the teeth. The team of colts in the new Parlia-
ment —Breslin, Weinholt and Theodore—are an
interestingly youthful lot, and it is a pleasure to
watch their beautiful and kittenish enthusiasm.
They seem capable of tucking in their respective
tuppenny and playing leapfrog over the financial
statement.
The only social happening of consequence this
week has been the opening of Parliament, with its
consequent rush of red, blue, yellow and white
ticket-holders in their gladdest rags, and all
utterly lost as to the whereabouts of the door by
which they should enter. This lostness is not
altogether evidence of insanity, for the powers
that be make a practice of changing the arrange-
ments each year, so that the red slip that carried
you triumphantly through the No. 1 committee-
room door yesterday admits you through the
library to-day and up the subterranean cave to-
morrow. There was no startling frock show—it’s
getting too hot; so white linens were mostly worn,
with much befrilled and beflowered headpieces.
Sometimes the headpiece amounted to a waste-
paper basket inverted and draped with large
beads—the counterpart of those which the child
swallowed in the Dickens story. Mrs. Lieut.-
Gov. Morgan wore a last year’s gown of
prunella silk and a new toque to match. When
the final “Gorsave” had been blown out of the
trombone, she and her Arthur lunched a select
few in the President’s room. In the Premier’s
sanctum there was a party of very mixed political
opinions to meet Will Crooks, M.P., and his wife,
two ardent Laborites who hail from Woolwich
(England). Will seems to take rather kindly to
purple and fine linen; but the missus is, so she
says, in the habit of doing her own laundering; so
that perhaps makes up.
In the name of charity, the Frank Corrie
residence on Bowen Terrace was the scene of a
large and rather youthful gathering on Friday
night, when a variety performance was supplied
by a host of society girl and male flappers. Dances
in character were strong points of the show ; but,
on the more serious side, the piano efforts of Mrs.
Mason and the Elaine Feez maiden were good to
harken unto. So was the warbling of a young
voice owned by a McCulloch child. The proceeds
go to supply nourishment to the Infant Hospital’s
X Ray fund. ~
Cheques to aid the Pure Milk Fund still flutter
in, but the fluttering is slow. Won’t some one
send along a few" pounds at a smart pace to save
the babies of this under-populated land ? Every
£2 gives a child clean milk and preserves it from
the dreaded gastro-enteritis for nearly five months
—that is, a child that cannot afford to pay for its
own fresh milk. A mere £2OO will set the insti-
tute upon its legs for the present year, and save
many little sufferers.
The heralded arrival of H.M.S. Pyramus has
given a fillip to the dying season, and the few
girls that have not fled to mountain and seaside
are shaking out their garments (recently packed
away with camphor) for a last flutter.
Sincerely yours,
MARIO.


JUDGE A STATE BY ITS MEN AND WOMEN.
FIVE-MONTHS'-OLD QUEENSLANDER.
Photo, by W. F. Myers, Toowoomba.
The people of Queensland are the healthiest in the
ivorld. The benign climate stamps its influences
upon the Queenslander from the cradle to the
grave.
Queenslanders are outdoor people, and do not suffer
from house diseases. The climate invites them
to live out of doors. The conditions of the coun-
try draw them to it.
The Queenslander is not less noted for his love of
hom,e because he happens to spend most of his
time on the verandah or in the open, or because
his house may have 20 rooms and only ovie
tire-place.
The Queenslander is a born athlete, and takes to all
kinds of sport as a duck to water.
The Queensland child has, the best time of any child
in the world. He or she has more fine days
than the lads or lasses of any other country, is at
home on horse-back, and is a very centaur from
babyhood. The children have the forests, the
plains and the fields to roam in.
The out-door life of the Queensland woman gives
her a freer and more erect carriage than her
sisters abroad. She adapts her costume to the
conditions under which she lives, and is neither
the slave nor the martyr of fashion.
She is the equal of the Queensland man at the ballot
box, in the school-room and the University.
She has equal opportunities where the qualities
of the brain mean success. •
The Queenslander is intensely musical avid artistic.
Queensland To-day: The Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XLV.
THE PEOPLE OF QUEENSLAND.
By J. D. FITZGEBALD, Barrister-at-Law.
The institutions of a country are supposed to
reflect the character of the people of that country.
A bold, enterprising people, full of energy, would
be restive under the trammels of a Conservative
or a Feudal Government. The patient, ox-like
peoples have all Governments and constitutional
practices which apparently suit them. The chief
-characteristics of such Governments consist in the
.restraints which are provided by law and custom
—-often the same thing—upon the energies, the
industry and the independence of the people.
The word “ Forbidden ! ” which the traveller
finds everywhere in Germany (“Verboten!”),
gives an idea of the kind of thing which is now
'under discussion. The word “Verboten !” might
be taken as the watchword of Conservatism and
Feudalism, just as the word “Progress” is the
watchword of Democracy. In Germany the small
things are forbidden. In Australia half of these
admonitions would be unnecessary ; the other half
would not be tolerated. There are so many things
banned by public notice in Germany which a
•Queensland schoolboy would avoid instinctively
that we must claim that this new country has,
'under its freer conditions, with its advanced insti-
tutions and high educational standard, and, above
all, with its identification of the services of the
State with the substantial interests of the pro-
•ducers, achieved a higher standard of civilisation.
The facts given already in these articles show
that the people of Queensland are on a level with
the healthiest people in the world. That is no
unimportant consideration to the European father
and mother who propose to transfer themselves
and their brood to the new country. The benign
climate has stamped its influences upon the
Queenslander from the cradle to the grave. In
judging him from the physical standpoint, the
first thing we observe is that the Queenslander is
“an outdoor man”—and- woman. He suffers
from no house diseases as yet—nor is he likely to.
The climate invites him to be an outdoor man ;
the conditions of the country still further draw
him to it. Some may say that these influences
and their correlative habits do away with the
idea of “home” —which has had so potent an
effect upon the manners and customs of the
Anglo-Saxon, Celtic and Teutonic nations. But
there is no deterioration apparent so far in the
love of the Queenslander for home, because he
happens to spend most of his time on the veran-
dah or in the open; and because his house may
have 20 rooms and only one fireplace—and that in
the kitchen.
The test of the “ home ” feeling, which has been
declared to be such a wonderful influence in build-
ing up the character of the Anglo-Saxon, Teutonic
and Celtic stocks is best realised in the matter of
hospitality. The Queenslander is unexcelled in
this characteristic. There is not one corner of
town or bush in which a traveller, however humble
or austere his lot, would find such a condition as
that described in Goldsmith’s lines—
Or onward, where the rude Carinthian boor
Against the houseless stranger shuts the door.
A thrust which is true to-day, not only of Carin-
thia, but of other provinces and countries in
Europe. The reckless profusion of the Australian
“back-blocker” in the matter of cups of tea is
now proverbial. Morning, noon or night, when-
ever the visitor happens along, there is always a
cup of tea and a scone, or good home-made bread
or damper. There is always a neighborly readi-
ness to lend a horse, saddle, bridle, spring-cart or
buggy for a special occasion ; and you can confi-
dently call upon any mounted man in the bush to
abandon his immediate pursuit and ride miles for
a dbetor or a clergyman in the interests of one
in qxtremis. The necessity for this latter exploit
is becoming less forceful; for, as the wonderful
system of communication is pushed out all over
the State of Queensland, the medical man now
runs his motor bicycle or swift car along the fine
QUEENSLAND SCHOOL CHILDREN RIDING TO SCHOOL.
Photo, by W. F. Myers, Toowoomba.
READY FOR THE ROAD. —YOUNG QUEENSLAND AT PLAY.
roads, and thus saves precious minutes. There is
also the telephone, set upon the poles which
Nature has provided— viz., the tree-tVunks. This
has now bridged many silent spaces.
The main characteristics of Queensland men are
■ —perfect independence of character, toned down
by a certain amount of shyness and preliminary
diffidence; quickness of perception and good
temper ; a sense of humor which is not inconsistent
with perfect gravity of demeanor, and, in the wild
places, a tendency to mild practical jokes of the
nature of “leg-pulling”—which is equivalent to
“ humbugging ”or “ blague.” The young Queens-
lander is a born athlete. He takes naturally to all
S. R. DONE LEY’S CHAMPION LADIES’ HACK, BRISBANE.
Photo, by W. P. Myers, Toowoomba.
kinds of sports—cricket, rowing, football. So far
as the development of a race type is concerned, he
has not fulfilled the prediction of Marcus Clarke.
In 1877 he said :
In another hundred years the average Australasian will
be a tall, coarse, strong-jawed, greedy, pushing, talented
man, excelling in swimming and horsemanship. His
religion will be a form of Presbyterianism ; his national
policy, democracy tempered by the rate of exchange.
His wife will be a thin, narrow woman, very fond of
dress and idleness, caring little for her children. ... In
500 years, unless recruited from foreign nations, the
breed will be wholly extinct. But in that 500 years it
will have changed the face of nature and swallowed up
contemporary civilisation.
It is an interesting prediction ; and Queensland
is doing its best to falsify the harsh features of it
by inviting the foreign and British stocks to
recruit the Australian, and save him from the
awful fate foreshadowed for himself by the great
Australian novelist. It is probable that the per-
centage of “ the equestrian order ” in Queensland
is greater than it is anywhere else in the world.
Every bushman and most townsmen have some
knowledge of riding and of horses. In physique,
it is a notable fact that one seldom finds the fat,
heavy, “ podgy ” type which is so common in Euro-
pean countries. The Queenslander is rather on the
slim side of athletic build, and with well-shaped
head, good clean jaw, firm mouth and clear eyes.
It is said of Japan that it is the country where
the children have “the best time in the world.”
But having observed the life in both countries, the
writer sums up in favor of the “ time ” which the
Queensland child has. His greatest hardship is
that the State puts him to this compulsion—he
must attend school. He must acquire the ele-
ments of an education at least. If health is happi-
ness, the Queensland child has the best time in
the world. He has a free, out-door life all the year
round. He is not depressed by a six months’
rainy season or nipped by frosts or snows. He
has free conditions of life—the forests, the fields ;
he is at home on horse-back. Boys and girls ride
great distances to school in some parts of the
State. But they think it no hardship. Take the
group on this page with their ponies. Could you
find better specimens of a young nation anywhere?
Is it not a remarkable national exhibit ?
The women of Queensland constitute a type
which is in some respects unique. Despite a cli-
mate which has been a sort of bogey to those who
do not know its good qualities, they have never
developed that swarthiness which the sun gives to
the women of Southern Spain, Italy or France.
You will in many instances mark the influence of
the sun in a rich bronze, through which the healthy
blood shows on the cheeks. The teeth—a sine qua
non of beauty as of health—are invariably good.
But on the Darling Downs you will find com-
plexions which vie with the hue of the peach, and
the traveller may often fancy he is back in
England, or on the Canterbury Plains of Maori-
land. The outdoor life of the Queensland
woman gives her a freer and more erect carriage,
If “health is beauty, beauty health ! ” she ought
to be the most beautiful woman in the world. In
some parts of the State, and in certain months of
the year, the weather is trying; but she adapts
her costume to the conditions under which she
lives, and is not a slave or a martyr to fashion.
In the capital city, of course, the conditions of
life are similar to those of most cities in the
Southern or Northern Hemispheres. But the
stress of life is not so severe, the battle not so keen
in Queensland. A good all-round standard Of
comfort, and even luxury, is maintained. The
pressure of circumstances has not brought women
to any great extent into the labor market; and
even there their welfare is carefully safe-
guarded by the State. The bracing effect
TYPES OF QUEENSLAND WOMEN.
Photo, by W. F. Myers, Toowoomba.
of a participation in politics has raised the
status of the women of Queensland. The
equal suffrage right was conferred by the men’s
sense of justice ; and as there was nothing of that
struggle which has unsexed some of the Suffra-
gettes of England, the Queensland woman pre-
served her self-respect. She is the equal of man
at the ballot box and in the school-room. She has
equal opportunities wherever the qualities of the
brain mean success. The student of sociology and
of human progress might make some interesting
speculations as to the possibilities of a higher
national type being produced by mothers who
were the political equals of their husbands at the
ballot box, and in the discussion of all national
questions, and of fathers who had achieved the
widest franchise and the freest political institu-
tions known to the world to-day.
Things which are “ Verboten ” to the European
are accessible to the Queenslander —such things,
for example, as political power. There is no
“governing class” in Queensland. The people
do their own governing through the statesmen
whom they choose. Nor is there* auy limitation
of choice. A parson’s son may become Chief
Justice; a carpenter may become a Supreme
Court Judge; a shopman Attorney-General; or
a miner Prime Minister of the Commonwealth.
What other country in the world affords such a
sight? In England, family and birth still consti-
tute a ; in the United States wealth
is a sine quit non. In Queensland neither pedi-
gree nor wealth is necessary. Fitness and force
of character alone are required.
The young Queenslander is highly musical and
artistic. The singing voices are fresh and of
splendid quality. Girls and boys alike take to
instrumental music as a duck takes to water. In
Rockhampton last .Tune I heard a vocal and in-
strumental concert which would have done credit
to an English town with a thousand years of
history behind it. I heard tell there of a young
musical genius—-a violiniste—who had recently
been sent to study in Europe, and of whom the
greatest things musically were expected ; and my
authority knew what he was talking about, as he
was himself trained in Vienna, and came to Aus-
tralia as a soloist in the famous Austrian band.
It may be urged that Queensland has done nothing
serious in music so far, nor in literature, npr.art.
Perhaps not. But the love of art, music "and
literature, which it is patent to every traveller
exists in the Queenslanders, and the oppor-
tunities which are being provided for study will
bring out the. creators at the right time, as it has
the interpreters like Melba, Florence Schmidt,
Nora Mackay, Miss Murray-Prior, etc. •
The reader of the whole of this series
will be able to weigh the character of
the people from the things which they
have accomplished. It may be urged that
these wdre merely incidental to the pursuit of
wealth ; and that the era of “art for art’s sake”
is not yet. That is true ; but yet no man of
European birth would hesitate to enrol himself
with his children in the nation which has done
the things which the Queenslanders have done.
Such splendid results can only be explained by
the hypothesis which has often been advanced,
and which holds good in anthropology as in horti-
culture—that the scions of old race, transplanted
to* a new and fertile soil, develop new capacity,
new physical and mental power, and new life ;
and that the first offspring of those transplanted
races have a physical and a mental spring which
results from the change. The phrase. “Go west,
young man ! ” of Horace Greeley embodied a safe
philosophy. “Transplant yourself, young man,
and grow and develop more freely in new con-
ditions!” that is the true rendering of it. The
message to-day which we send to the European
who is faced with a “ Verboten ” placard in every
institution and every sphere of life, is “ Come
south, young man ! Come south ! Transplant
yourself, and grow to your full growth ! ”


Nephew Doctored -Tor Fifteen Years
but Got No Benefit—Finally Tried
Cuticura Remedies and was Per-
manently Cured—Uncle Similarly
Cured rive Years Age,
ONE CURE CY CUTICURA
LEADS TO ANOTHER
. “ five years ago I was burned
in an explosion of natural gas. Mv head
A
AV
r\
'J V.
o
and face, also my hands
and arms, were burned.
About three wee.cs
after, eczema set in
over the parts of my
body which wero
burned and my physi-
cian undertook to euro
it by administering a
•solution of arsenic, in-
creasing the doses, but
without any percepti-
ble benefit. I was grad-
ually losing strength
from the suffering and
I was in a very serious
condition.
About that time ray nephew told
me about his experience with the Cuti-
cura Remedies. He had eczema so se-
verely that the blood ran down into his
shoes. He suffered with the eczema for
many years and had tried everything
the physicians could prescribe. After
doctoring for fifteen years, in which timo
ho found no relief, ho was finally induced
to try the Cuticura Remedies, and they
cured him permanently in four months.
“ You can easily believe that I made
haste to try them on his recommenda-
tion. I commenced using the Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment. I was
cured in less than two months so per-
fectly that I have not even had a symp-
tom of the disease since, although it *i3
over five years since the trouble began.
I give this testimonial voluntarily, with-
out solicitation or hope of reward, except
that some one seeing it may be relieved
from suffering as I was. G. T. Hamil-
ton, Indiana, Pennsylvania, U. S. A.
Dec. 15 and 24, 1908.”
Reference : R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin and Cuticura Resolvent
PiHs to Purify the Blood. A Single Set often Cures,
bold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27.
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Rue de la Chaussee
° Antin: Australia, R. Towns * Co., Sydney: U.S.A..
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
ear-32-page Cuticura Book, post-free, giving de-
scription. treatment and cure of diseases of the skin
LEEMING’S
FOR STYLE
IN
SHOES.
dfgfd
PRICES
18/6 8 2216.
The above is the very newest fashion in Men’s
Shoes for Summer Wear.
In Tan or Black. Prices 18/6 and 22/6.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
All that is newest in Footwear
is priced in it.
LEEMING’S Boot Stores,
103 Swanston St., Melbourne; 303 Chapel St.,
Prahran; 1 & 3 Errol St., North Melbourne [1
CONSULT
the Old HERBAL
SPECIALIST
for Nervous and kindred troubles which embitter life
and cause Nervous and physical breakdown. You mav
receive the benefit of his.lone- and successful experience
in the treatment of these complaints fiikh of ciiakge.
Address: HERBAL DISPENSARY^
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
FREE, TO ALL
Ladies who lack proper BUST Development:
We will send full particulars of a valuable
remedy which will enhance vour physical
charms and brin«r about that natural Develop-
ment of the BUST which all ladies desire and
all men admire.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXA TINE
The Peerless Aperient.
The Gentle Regulator.
The Lollie-like Laxative.
The Cure for Constipation.
Sold by All Chemists.
Equally Good for Children and
Adults.
ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
4
ARE YOU
Worn Down
BY
Stomach & Liver Disorders?
Nothing keeps a man or a woman
down like indigestion or liver
trouble—nothing lifts them up so
quickly or so surely as a course of
Mother
SEIGEL’S
syrup
the digestive tonic, compounded of
roots and herbs. It braces the
nerves, purifies the blood, creates
appetite, assists digestion. Thirty
drops taken after meals, will make
and keep you well and strong. It
WILL
LIFT YOU UP.
Take it with your next meal
AND PROVE ITS WORTH.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
Hawßes &Son
AND ;
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD."
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geeiong.
gdfgdfd
gdfg
When science of-
fers a complete,
positive, safe, lasting and effective cure for
Obesity ! It seems a crime nearly, that any
fat woman or man should continue their life
a burden to themselves, and a laughing-
stock for their acquaintances.
“FATCURE”
will reduce your weight by as much as 5
lbs. a week and, at the same time, it is ben-
eficial to your general health. No drastic
dieting or killing exercise is required when
this method is used. It is most beneficial
in all cases of weak heart, especially if
fatty degeneration is suspected. A few doses
improves your breathing. Send 2d. stamp
for FREE TRIAL Sample and particulars
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Pipes
BBIA3Eft
(gbi>)
•^tkn
Pipes
SPECIAL
Silver
Mounted.
Nothing ever like Them
Shown in Australia before.
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCONISTS^
7'Q
l
If
unable
, 1-0
Procure
at* Local
Tobacconist,
apply at
Wholesale
Depot.
231 Clarence
Street,
Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
dfgdfg
dfg
dfg
dfg
dfg
df
gdf
g
fdg
That Have
Caught On!
They’re books every Aus-
tralian should read.
They’re typical Australian
from cover to cover—full of
intense interest from start to
finish. They’re written, printed
and illustrated in Australia—
you ought to read them —
they’re published in cheap
editions.
Here we enumerate just a
few of them.
Steve Brown’s Bunyip, by A. J. Barry; price,
cloth, 1/-; postage 4d.
The Luck of the Native Born, by A. J. Barry ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
How McDougall Topped the Score, by T. E.
Spencer ; price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
The Spring Cleaning, by T. E. Spencer;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
(Tlie above two coipbined), price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd.
The Surprising Adventures of Mrs. McSweeney,
by T. E. Spencer ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Budgeree Ballads, bv T. E. Spencer; price,
paper, 1/-; post age 3d.
A Man of Sympathy, by Harry Tighe; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Spell of the Bush, by John X. Cameron ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by Alf Brascli ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Chas. White ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Riverfall, by L. B. Porter; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Adventures of Russell Howard, by A. E. Job-
son ; price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
The New Chum, by A. H. Adaiits; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
dfĝdfg
SUMMER SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM V CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
YrX&'lm
MORRIS’S I
hreeWtehes
CIOARETTEB
viatril.S,
6° for 101
London Made.
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
The Inky Way.
“Maitai”: The Dannevirke (M.L.) Press died on Octo-
ber 15, under fairly happy circumstances. About a decade
asro the paper commenced its existence. It wasn’t
wanted, but it lived, even if it sometimes lived with diffi-
culty. It was run practically in the Government interest *
and as its evening contemporary was also run in that in-
terest, the Opposition bought the Press, so that it might
wave a rag of its own hue. The price was good, where-
fore the Press died happily ; and out of its ashes came
the Evening News, which forthwith threatened the
Government with l enable injury. In the advertising
columns of his last issue the editor of the defunct Press
says his piece re the birth of the News and the demise of
his old sheet:—
birth.
Tub Evening News.—At Dannevirke, on the 16th
inst., the Directors of the Dannevirke Publishing
Company, Limited, of an issue. All doing well”
Baby has twelve pages and some teeth, and already'
makes a big noise.
DEATH.
The Daily Press.—At Dannevirke, on Fridav, 15th
October, 1909, the Daily Press, aged 10 years. No
lamentation, please ; we do our own weeping.
■***■•»
“Fusion” in the politics of the Commonwealth and
most of the States is playing Aged Gooseberry with the
“Liberal” papers. Melbourne Age shows signs of re-
senting the circumstahees which leave it without a party,
and is doing- its best to create a party out of the void’
Adelaide Advertiser has been fo ced to label itself “as
good as Labor.” Tne Australian Star (Sydney) is a
straight Labor and Democratic paper, and has been so
sirve a dale considerably previous to the Fusel Hobart
Daily Post has gone right over to Labor. Laun-
ceston Daily Telegraph, like the frog that
fell into the milk- bucket, is swimming around
in a circle, hoping to churn a pat of butter
whereoh to float to safety. A number of other “ Liberal ”
papers are in a similar fix. Thev are between the deep
sea of Laborism and the devil of Toryism, and the skirts
of their; dignity are gathered up like -those of a perplexed
old maid caught on a sand-spit by a rising tide. Quite a
lot of Australian “Liberal” journals, must soon go Labor
or go Tory or go hung, or, as the fourth alterative
eschew politics altogether, and cater for news readers
only.
* * * *
“ Tapu ” : Christchurch (M.L.), with only (id,ooo people
has four dailies—the Lyttelton Times amt Evening Star
(both Liberal), and the Morning Press and Evening
News (both very Conservative). It is the only town in
Maoriland t hat can support two morning and two even-
ing rags. The morning sheets are, if anythin.*- a little
’ above the average as dailies go ; whilst the evening sheets
erawl down below zero, being ill-fed with news and prob-
ably only issued to keep the field clear of outsiders. All four
papers Contain the same number of news columns There
is an agreement between the two cos. : if either wants to
pnnt apouple of extra pages, 24 hours’ notice must be
given to the rival co. It seems only a question of time
when Wellington (M.L.) Times and Dominion will have to
fix up something similar in order to save their two lives.
• * * .
“Stop my paper,” “Refuse to take delivery,” “Send
no more,” used to be considered all-sufficient, notice of
stoppage when scrawled op the newspaper wrapper bv
the wrathy patron. The editor didn’t perhaps sav his
pumpkin crop was the best ever grown, and a bolt of dire
vengeance had to be discharged. But the G.P O now
refuses to transmit papers so marked, and so they keep
-going and never returning, and the account against the
pumpkin crop mounts. One paper prints this notice-
eJoVT" ,s carried outward for id., but if returned
the P.O. demands id. for each 20z., and as it weighs 6oz
na. must £0 on or it will not reach. And until we are
duly informed your account will run.”
CABLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a Brotherhood born unto sorrow, whom Pate and
the Devil condemn ;
W ith the news ye shall read on the morrow they wrestle
at something; a.m.
are sitting; at ink-splattered tables, from Cairns
all the shore round to Perth ;
Disentangling from mountains of cables all the news of
the wicked old earth !
They are cursing like crimson Jehannum—yea, swearing
like demons profane,
As they wearily scissor and scan ’em—the cables that
endlessly rain !
They are blasting a blast extra-fervent on somebody’s far-
away head—
for the press is the night-toiling servant of the grocer
who sleeps in his bed !
There’s a Brotherhood born unto anger, a cohort engirdled
with woe ;
For the linos, are raising their clangor, and the printer-
man clamors below !
They are “ fixing” the news of creation, from London to
Greece and Peru ;
And they fervently mutter “Damnation!” when the
cables are stiff ones to “do ” !
When the editor's gone in his hansom, and the motoring
manager glides ;
There’s a light burning over the transom where “ cables ”
at labor abides!
There’s a paste-pot that ceaselessly splashes, a pencil that
doggedly plods,
Pursuing each message that flashes—for such is the will
of the gods !
There’s a Brotherhood weary of tracing the movements of
Kaiser and Czar—
Of fixing statistics and chasing where Whitaker’s
Almanacs are !
It is easy to read in the morning, when "cables” has
skimmed off the dregs ;
But kings in the night are a thorning, and empires are
brittle as eggs.
There are carters on strike in Formosa, and a cyclone’s
dishevelled Japan ;
There are outbreaks at Malta and Gozo, and a clatter out-
side Ispahan.
There’s Balsquith and Asfour and others whose speeches
are lengthy and flat,
And a Khan who has murdered his brothers, arid the
death of the Akhoond of Swat.
There’s a Brotherhood wearied of Britain, and her Empire
of paupers arrayed—
Of the Someone, M.P., who has written to the Times re
the Balance of Trade !
For there’s Ilafid, Esq., in Morocco, who is boiling Pre-
tenders and t.ri es ;
There’s a blaze in :.-w York or in Yoko. which the cable-
gram briefly describes !
In Hind there is news of sedition, the Punjab is seething
some more ;
There's a wreck or a midnight collision near ’Frisco or
close by the Nore !
There’s a train-smash ’way back in Nevada—a Cardinal
dying at Rome ;
There’s Germany’s threatened Armada, and Kipling has
published a “ pome” !
So a Brotherhood, born unto trouble, hurries' bn like a
devil in flight,
As it leaps f >r ils crust at the double till the “ wire ”-boy
has whispered “ Good-night.! "
There's a Brotherhood sorting dispatches from Presi-
dents, Kaisers and Kings;
And seldom and scanty the thatch is that unto its
cranium clings.
For hair has a habit of leaving the skulls that are bent to
the toil
Of fixing earth’s cables and weaving fresh news fof the
millions who moil !
So a Brotherhood, shabby of raiment, labors on until
rising of sun,
And stunted and small is the payment it gets when its
week’s work is done.
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


9
Arrowroot Biscuit
‘THE CHILDRENS FOOD.’
M
x
&
V
i ft
5$
N>
tv
**/A
f
8
5V
As
®G>
5V
*9
<o
Sr
* <5
tv
fdg
fdg
MEDALS
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
(/-EACH POST FREE lAI
(Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
iVUCK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
'STOREKEEPERS4 TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
df
gfd
gdfg
fdgdfg
dfgdfg
,Cartridges
.22 Calibre
'British Made G & g
You’ll Bulls K:-e
'niore often in Miuiatuie
Range Shooting with these
Cartridges.
USE NO OTHER
All Ammunition Dealers
Agents:
The Colonial Ammunition
Company
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
HAVE you tried this beautiful SKIN PREPARATION?
VERONIQUE. WE ONLY WISH YOU TO TRY A
SMALL JAR—the result will be so gratifying to you that
you would not be without it for one day. Even I'Yench-
woman who values her complexion uses VERONIQUE. It
does wonders for them, and will do the same for you.
VERONIQUE makes the skin smooth, soft and white, re-
moves blemishes, arid so nourishes the skin that wrinkles
disappear. VERONIQUE costs 3s. per small and ss. per
large jar. Obtainable from the Sole Agents only : THE
AUSTRALIA MANICURE AND TOILET ROOMS. 42a
Castlereagh Street (over Medlow Bath Hydro Offices),
exactly opposite; the Hotel Australia. Entrance through
large doorway'. Here also are the finest Manicure Rooms
in Sydney'. Add 6d. for postage.
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lakfe Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe S Company Ltd.
385-5 Rent Street, SYDNEY.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties,
jfshiil lii
iiiiliiliS l!!!i!i!!!!
iiVii 1
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves before purse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free any-
where, 2/- Do not miss this chance of obtaining
one of the best and most useful puzzles ever
produced.
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can he
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to yive the match-
cadyer a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
m
The JOKER’S INDIA RUBBER SNAKE.
One of our most successful surprise novelties.
Folds up in a very small space, and can he held
in a closed hand without being noticed. Springs
out of the hand in a most natural way. Made
of indiaruhber, and is absolutely unbreakable.
Causes heaps of amusement. Price 1/3 post
free anywhere.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—New Edition
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Havmarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
Send 6d. for Sample Packet of “ The Bulletin ” Post Cards,
214' George Street, Sydney.
dfgdfg
qiven away,
To Advertise
our
ostrich
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller's Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St-, SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes ” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddooks, in which she explains
her reason for offering £lOO Reward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 Ring Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
POLICY fok th it COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from Thk Bulletin Office.
dfgdfgdf
\MW ax\rt
Wo Mother sho\M he without \t
W^p k
o\\ Yeawast.
i
4h
/
A propress/i/e d/etary adapted to t/re promt? d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food N°I
from A/rt/> to 3 mont/is
Milk Food N92
from J to 6 mor?t/?s
Malted Food N93
from 6 months uptvorc/s.
gdf
Lr.d ,e k Loftus Sts., Sydney
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
%
w
7 /
m
U
Vs
V
n
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is te
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Our modern medical system Is a foolish system. We practically pay
oup doctors to keep us ill. Theip prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day verjf little is known of medicine
and its use. The wasest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
thing's he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Diugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if- you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Dr.MgLAUGHLIN S electric belt
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worits while you sleep* and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a rniuute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, aruis, shoulders,
head or any other part of your bodv. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
withiu the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as SLI in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you. want to be Strong
aiul Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man! , . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation. Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castiereagh and Market Sts„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
Tha MsLAUGHUH CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Gastieraagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1


Shipping:.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦ Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10g
f Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mkmiouknk Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adki.aidk & FukmantTiK Agknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Plack, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual Cite
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hkad Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.164—Assuring £33.838,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
1 1 a veiling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Ciiihf Offick for Nkw South Wanks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Ilor., C. .1. Rohkrts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
gank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Comer of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up s- - £508,197 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,824 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 73,500 0 0
£744.521 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. 'U —=•
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.': E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
JHE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne. v
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O,(i()Q „*0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35.000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman : Hon. J. M. Pratt ; flop.
Thomas Skene ;J. H. MacFarland, Esa., M.A., LL.D. i
JAMES BORROW.\IAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Hotels, &c.
k EORGC HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
FOSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St , Lrndon, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping:.
ord
eutscher
loyd,
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE,
PASSENGERS booked to Epypt, Naples. Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles. Gibraltar. London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
7 Bridpe-street, Sydney.
Tel. 698.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of [|eiii Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710.’908
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Mkeks. M.L.C., Chair
man (Gibbs, Jirijrht & Co.); J. Cami-bkll-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.:
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
gdfg
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 24.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
December 22.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC, to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FA RES —Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne 17 6
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
lJa! yet if anti (Joinjut n.y. Lttl.,
Agents in Australia. /
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
Steamer. | Tons. | Commander. | Leave Sydney.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tabjes, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing:.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Airents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cook town, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby arid Makambo tc
Port Moresby. Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports).
Solomon Islands (about 8
dfgdf
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., lO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
DIRECTORS :
£2,500,000
£1,650,000
£2,500,000
£6,650,000
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Backhand, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors : William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shephenrd Edgeeliff Laidlev, Esq.
vv,i e^ d P ffic e—George St., Sydney. London Office-64 Old Broad St., E.C.
vvitn .brajicncs in all the Australian States, New Zealand and Fiji, and Agents and Correspondents through-
A ? ,s i^ ania » e - United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Rills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE- DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being-:
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO. ( d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
(o) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during- are payable half-yearly.
, \ m cunrency ° f l , oa l- * («) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to on any instalment date; interest to that
31 years. date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are:—(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
’HIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Skcrktary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
gdfg
HICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager.
TASMANIA.
HIGHFIELD.
_The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful,
magnificent.
The Fashionable Hotel.for Tourists; lately Enlarged
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
scenery
and Re-
for the
Cuisine.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &c.
The
Pipe
of
Pipes!
“E.F.L.” Brand
Made in London by highly skilled
workmen, from best, old seasoned
Briar-root, mounted with Sterling
Silver Bands. They are supplied
in three grades—
A, B and C Quality,
and are guaranteed, with fail-
usage, not to crack or burn.
Price, from 2s. 6d. each.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues to
E. F. LIND & CO.,
Tobacconists,
398 GEORGE STREET, near King: Street, SYDNEY.
Branches : 5 Macquarie Place and 47 Pitt Street.
Free for the Asking.
$
The completest illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/-
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
SHipping;>
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), December 4,
calling at all N.-West
Ports to Wyndham.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
S.S. Wollowra, Nov. 16.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
. S.S. Grantala, Nov. 13.
S.S. Yongala, Nov. 20.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields •
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
A stents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing' the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines,
For London and Liverpool
Via Sukz Canal.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,400 Tons. T. Priskb, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 13th Nov.
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - 23rd Nov.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 30th Nov.
„ ~ ~ ADELAIDE- - - 7th Dec.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, Situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light tliroughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
!’ £49 10s - £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “DORSET.” For further information, illustrated
books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
THE
MARVELLOUS
EAR PHONE
Professor HOFFMANN’S Great Discovery.
A Wireless Telephone for the Ear. Excels any-
thing ever invented to restore the HE„RiNC.
He is wearing- the
Ear Phone. Can
you detect it ?
Professor Hoffmann’s Ear
Phone marks a new epoch in
the cure of Deafness, anil
the difference be [ween a
country cart and an express
train illustrates the immense
improvement this remark-
able instrument is on all
other devices that have pone
before.
The Ear Phone is solf-
adjustinp, invisible to the
eye, and its enormous value
to deaf ears is in its unique
power to CORRECT, FO HIS
AND MAGNIFY the sound
waves on the drum of the
ear. By the aid of these in-
struments, which are so soft
and light that they are not
felt day or nigbt, the slightest sounds may be
heard perfectly.
A very interesting- Illustrated Rook, entitled
“ How to Make Deaf Ears Hear,” will be sent post
free on rec eipt of name and address.
Every Deaf Person should road this.
Address—
Professor E. HOFFMANN, Dept, issc,
54 Duke Street, Mayfair, London, Eng. [2
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from (his complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured w.iuout operation. T hen send for particulars
o. our perfect fitting
Automatic Air cushion appliance
the Best Rupturt Appliaimci of the Century*
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre;
WINSLO'V GO., —6l Collins St., Melbourne, ViC


From a northern N.S.W. scribe :
Apropos of the kudos given (B. 23/9/’O9) to the Federal
administration of the old-age pension law, I know a man
who applied only a month ago, and who was refused
after being put to a lot of trouble. He is several years
over 65, and has up to the present battled along without
any outside help. It apffears he comes into Emmaville,
perhaps three times in a year, and has been in the habit
of taking a few nobblers which make him noisy. I have
not been able to find out that he has ever been locked up |
by the police, but it appears the force reported against
him. It would therefore seem that it is the cops who
decide the matter. This man lives over 12 miles from
town, and has existed for the last 10 years or more by
scratching a living from an old tailings heap at a battery.
He may get from six to nine bags of tin per year, on
which he pays royalty, the place having belonged until
quite lately to one of the £lO,OOO (word illegible). Here
is a man who is refused a pension because he has spent
probably £2 per year on booze and spoken out of his turn
when under the influence. He always paid for his
rations, and if he had a surplus of ids he melted it.
What would Alfred the Affable or Holy Joseph do if they
had to pig-root for 12 months for say £25 worth of tin 12
miles in the bush, where they would see no one ? I think
they would drink a lot more and howl a lot louder.
This ancient warrior spends far less on drink than the
average man, for he has so little to spend that he can’t
become a dissipated character ; his disadvantage is that
bv reason of his remoteness from civilisation he has to
compress his drinking into three three-and-sixpenny
bursts per annum. And the Affable Government, much
as it objects to his particular method of drinking,
collects the Customs and Excise revenue on his liquor, the
same as on the liquors of people whose drinking the
Affables don’t object to. As a side issue, I know of
several aged hard drinkers who gave up liquor entirely
when they got the O. A.P. simply because they felt they
were put on their honor to keep straight. I think my
three-and-sixpenny drink fiend might have been allowed
the same chance.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
t
H. Hillier,
161 George St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer, linponei.
Sporting Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather trimmed, £31 10s. Buggies, from £11 10s.
Governess Carts, Phaetons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set, £3 11s. Double Harness,
£5 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
33
“ PL&SMON is the
BEST part of Nature’s
BEST food— MILK,
and increases the food
value enormously”
—Lancet.
DELICIOUS
* COCOA
TENFOLD NUTRIMENT
PLASMOPi is USED
by the
ROYAL FAMILY.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : S. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Under Vice>Reg'al
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers d Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/-
COMBINCS MADE UP.
Tails from 7/6.
Telephone 2138.
§
D
D
a
m
i
2
THE CHARM OF CYCLING
is increased a hundred-fold when your Bicycle is fitted with a
BROOKS SADDLE.
Thousands of Cyclists have realized that fact—you should do so
too—as also that no other Saddle can even approach the
BROOKS in the matter of comfort and durability.
Write then for Art Manual, and remember the BROOKS i 3
stocked by all Agents.
J. B. BROOKS & CO. Ltd., The Saddle Specialists, BIRMINGHAM
ENGLAND.
H
WINCHESTER
.22 CALIBER CARTRIDGES
Winchester .22\Caliber Cartridges both Black
and Smokeless powder are unequalled for
accuracy and uniformity in shooting. The
Smokeless powder cartridges are loaded with
Winchester Greaseless Bullets which makes
them clean to handle and prevents the powder
from losing its strength. Try them next time.
Ask for Winchester make—the Red W Brand.
SOLD BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee "for
five veqrs.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WEMAKB A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
’ among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. B.P.O., Sydney, N.S W.
X
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine "MONTSERRAT.”
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
h EYE,
ointment
cures
BLAIR'S
■Covit
Pills
t * Rheumatic
PILLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
EOR COUt and
RHEUMATISM^
MIC
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
ft L A I ft'8 COUT and
ftMEUMATIC PILLS elimi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
eherefore PERFECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at !/!>£ and 2/9.
BLAIR‘8 HAVE STOOD
THE TEST OF TIME.
ON THE HOP ” —Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
gdƒd
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
The Famous Remedy for
Coturhs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fe Consumption
AsthIa OS Difficuhv V nf £££ ” edicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup
who are subject t^l^«^
m the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become°chromc Consumn’
Small Sire, 2,6; Large Sire, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor W G. HEARNE
Chem.st, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally. HEARNE,
t
Food.
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
tree from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
E6e LEADING
HOUSE
gdfgfd
Sporting Goods
Fishing Tackle &. Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting; Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
°£ T Special Snap
COLLECTOR GUN.
CANT
B
BEAT
gdƒdg
No. 1
“The Continental," 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Sienien’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38Jin., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards.
40s.
Postage on one Gun—ls 9d, N.S.W. ; 3s 2d, Interstate.
CO.
r^ym
CI T>
1
a
a
r\
J
Thoughtful Treatment
of such everyday ailments as biliousness, sick headache and
indigestion, does not involve the added discomfort caused by
rash and drastic purgatives. Give Nature a chance.
Just try one or two Cockle’s Pills. They will give a fillip to the
sluggish liver. That, in nine cases out of ten, is the cause of all the
Physicians have prescribed Cockle’s Pills for more than one
hundred years.
Q
m
PILLS.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sewer*
Prize Medals.
dƒdg
Works s Birmingham, Engrland.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention 's also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
dfg
I English
Prize Awards- London 1851, Paris 1889.
London IBGZ. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH. ,
N
RrIAMS
Watch es
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
A
GROWING HAIR BY THE
CALENDAR.
ALL THE MATERIAL AND INSTRUCTIONS NECESSARY
FOR CARRYING OUT THIS VALUABLE TOILET
TEST SENT FREE BY REQUEST.
r A week’s trial of “Harlene Hair-Drill” con-
vinces everyone of the almost magical effect of
the new method in growing new hair upon bald
or thin patches, in restoring the lustre and
colour to grey or faded hair, in removing scurf,
in increasing the lustre and glossy luxuriance of
“Woman’s crowning glory."
In one week “ Harlene Hair-Drill ’’ grows
beautiful haii;.
Practise theVules for “ Harlene Hair-Drill,” as
drawn up by Mr. Edwards, the eminent Royal
and Court Hair Specialist, and discoverer of
“Harlene-for-the-Hair," and you can literally
watch your hair growing thicker and longer and
more beautiful. You can grow hair by the
calendar —a calendar only seven days long,
A SEVEN DAYS’ FREE TEST.
Hundreds of men and women are doing this at
the present moment. Troubled with Thin or Pall-
ing Hair, or attacked by Scurf or Premature Grey-
ness (and all greyness is premature, seeing that
Hair-Drill enables the hair to retain its colour up
to old age), they have obtained one of the free
“Harlene Seven Days’Hair-Drill Trial Outfits”
(you can obtain one of these outfits yourself
free of all charge, by means of the coupon at the
foot of this article), and at the end of a week
their friends have congratulated them upon the
marvellous improvement in their appearance.
You can do the same yourself. Get one of these
Trial Outfits —it will cost you nothing—and
practise “Harlene Hair-Drill” for a couple of
minutes every morning. You begin directly
you receive your outfit (full directions will be
sent with each), and all the rest of the day you
will be conscious of a healthy and pleasant
influence at work on your scalp and at the roots
of your hair.
“ Harlene Hair-Drill ” only takes a couple of
minutes of the day, but its effect takes years off
your appearance. And as after the week’s trial
you will desire to continue this successful
method of Hair-Culture and Preservation, you
may like to know that further supplies of
“Harlene” may be obtained from ordinary
enterprising chemists or stores all over the world,
or it will be sent direct on receipt of postaj
order (to include postage) from the Edwards
Harlene Co., 95-6, High Holborn, London,
W.C., in Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d. bottles. A
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
To the EDWARDS' HARLENE CO.,
95-96, High Holborn, London, England.
Dear Sirs, —Having read your article on “Growing Hair by the
Calendar,” I should like to accept your offer to send me the week’s
Trial Outfit, for “Harlene Hair-Drill ” free of charge. I enclose 3d. in
stamps for postage (to any part of the world).
NAME
ADDRESS,
106
<s*
six
IT
A MONEYMAKER for Hotelkeepers.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Sodawater at 3d. per dozen.
We guarantee the Machine to do the work.
A FORTUNE for ENTERPRISING HOTELKEEPERS
Complete Outfits from £l5. Sold on Easy Terms.
Soda Fountains and Carbonators to suit Chemists and
Confectioners. Write to-day.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.,
167 GEORGE STREET, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational -Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All Tin? Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
fdg
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
tf.urs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post,. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Va.mi> on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy RiyER, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor 'Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up*
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portnits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (t ew), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
. KMBRACTNG
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they fepl a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action ot men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Everyman His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handyhook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s Cd. Plow McDougal Toffed the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s fid. Lung Com plaints, Is fid. French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s fid posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkftamkron, and many
others, all at 2s fid each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 95 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
«.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s Od posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Od posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


*4..<
The simple, safe,
and reliable laxative, pleasant
to taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in
results—the laxative which restores strength
to the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
all impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
effectively stimulates the action of the Liver, Bowels
and Kidneys in Nature’s gentle way—is
y
“NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
The valuable tonic action of California Syrup of Figs, in
conjunction with its agreeable cleansing and corrective
properties, gradually overcomes the distressing
tendency to Habitual Constipation.
Sold by Chemisfs at 1/3 and 1/11 only. Be sure you
see the circular Trade Mark (as shown here)
printed in blue at the top of the
package.
You have a guarantee
of quality and durability
if you purchase
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS, LONG CLOTHS,
FLANNELETTES, CAMBRICS, Etc.
Sold by all Drapers and Storekeepers.
Be sure the name “ HORROCKSES ” is on Selvedge g.&g.iso
S. SMITH & SON’S (Ltd.)
WORLD-RENO WNEO WA TCHES.
Ladies’ Lever Watches,
in Solid Silver Cases,
£1 10 0
In Iron Clad Cases, £l.
7 N
IF^
'N
‘Ladies’ Lever Watches,
in fine Gold Cases,
£3 15 0
In Half-Hunting 18ct. Gold
Cases, £5 5 0
By Appointment to
H.M. The King.
Write for
New
Illustrated
Catalogues.
Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery,
Speed Indicators,
separate volumes.
Special Terms
to Shippers.
The “ Charing X,” All-English Lever,
fully Jewelled, in Silver Case, £2.
\
/
r>
S.SMITH & SONS
ThL CH° R|,\c"
TV
The “Trafalgar All-English Lever,
in Iron Clad Case, £l.
THE “STRAND” ALL-ENGLISH GENTS’ LEYER, in massive 18ct. Gold Cases,
best quality obtainable. Crystal, £l3 15s. Full or Half Hunters, £l6 16s.
Watchmakers to the Admiralty, Q STRAND, LONDON,
&77.
si
Old
ORKNev
Ah! m, That’s it
The connoisseur can tell 0.0.
Whisky every time. Its fragrance,
its mellowness, its unique and
delicate flavour appeal at once
to the man with the discerning
palate.
And the water from which 0.0.
Whisky is made is so pure. It
springs from the Heather-Clad
Hills of Orkney, far removed from
human habitation. Money cannot
buy a better whisky,,because 0.0.
is perfection.
May we «end you our booklet “ Farthest
North, ' together with name of nearest
0.0 Agent?
McConnell's Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel Street, W.C.
Proprieters of
Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
On the Range.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHERE the axe-blade, silver-flashing,
sends the forest giants crashing—
Where the slaughtered gums go thrash-
ing through the tree-tops as they fall;
There the Bush land’s heart rejoices, and it sings
with gladsome voices—
The 'magpies in the morning and the sound of
wedge and maul.
Far away beyond the city, where they live by
Coke and Chi tty— :
Where the ways of man are foolish and his
habits very strange;
There’s a strong world and a splendid—here are
all its beauties blended,
And there’s nothing like the music of the cross-
cut on the Range!
Hear the saw-blade strongly singing whilst the
birds go skyward winging—
Whilst the axes distant ringing bring the Titans
rolling down ;
Far away the trams are clanging, and the clerks
on straps are hanging—
But the gods possess the mountains while the
Devil takes the town !
Life was meant for joyful living. Fogs and slums
and cold misgiving
Are noft life ; so swing the axe upon the hilltop
for a change.
Where the wood-bird sings and twitters we have
joined the timber-splitters,
And the cross-cut chants an anthem on the
dlear, unclouded Range !
Where the mountain breezes blowing set the life-
blood warmly glowing—
Where the tree-sap redly flowing stains the
gleaming, tempered blade ;
There our tents are pitched, and nightly, whilst
the camp-fire beaconed brightly,
We have Heard the forest voices calling down
each airy glade !
Far from Bourse and Legislature, living close to
God and Nature —
Vhiin the call of pew and parson to the souls
the years estrange ; .
Lut the hills their sermons offer, and the heathen
and the scoffer
Hear a Voice triumphant singing with the
crqss-cut on the Range !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
A. Rich Man—and Some Shells.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JOHNSTON was a Rich Man. \
For many years he had been the head of
an incorrigible importing firm ; for the best
years of his life—and we are given only one life
on this earth —he had striven earnestly to strangle
Australia. It was his creed. He had been
brought Up in the belief that nothing good could
come out of Australia, and he had merely lived
up to his religion. So he had crushed under his
big heel every little new-born Australian indus-
try, and gone on importing more imports. But
there was one local industry that he could not
crush. He could not import babies. These, by
some oversight on the part of Providence, had to
be produced locally. And, having been born, he
could not prevent them growing up to believe in
their native country, It gave him pain to think
of all these little soft things that had not passed
through his big warehouse in York-stroet. What
a profit he could have made on them ! But he
comforted his conscience by importing woollen
things and soothers and cradles in the hope that
these pink Australians would forget the land that
had produced them. Yet, surely to spite him,
they grew up to be White Australians.
And when he sat in church he shut his eyes and
dreamed of a big warehouse in Heaven. He fore-
saw himself at the head of a flourishing business,
importing cheap, ready-made halos from Hell.
He was a deeply religious man.
But now, with increasing years, he had retired
from the firm, and lived at Darling Point, in a
big household of grown-up children. And, pru-
dently, he had invested his money in city pro-
perty. Johnston did not believe in suburban
property or mining scrip or local manufactures;
he had the future of his children to consider.
The big fortune he was leaving must be secure.
The solid commercial city where they imported
things was good enough for lom. Mining shares
went down, and business investments might fail,
but the city was safe. There it stood, something
palpable, something secure.
In his motor each morning he would career
through the busy streets, stopping once a week to
look in on his solicitor, and, whenever possible,
put up his rents. Also he would cash a neatlv-
written cheque at his bank. His chauffeur, a like-
able chap named Charley, who had been with bim
for 12 years, having come first as an under-
gardener, always took him over the same route—
round a couple of blocks in the heart of the city.
For Johnston owned those blocks. And the old man
would lean back, on his morning drive, and look
piously up at his wealth, his buildings, his corners,
his blocks, his ground rents —wealth, solid, per-
manent, indestructible wealth. The sight of his
great fortune, standing secure and four-square to
the winds of chance, almost gave him an appetite
for his lunch of two patent pepsin biscuits and a
glass of filtered water with a digestive tablet in it.
He had done his duty to his children. He had
built them a monument more lasting than bronze.
He had made them secure, The moth could not
corrupt those solid piles of masonry ; solicitors
could not break in and steal those ground rents.
And so, being a pious man, he gave thanks
every Sunday to his god, sitting with his eyes
closed and his fat figure comfortable on the fat
cushions of his pew. People thought him asleep ;
he was merely rapturously thanking his god.
That was before the Big Shells came.
On that dreadful morning he was awakened,
like the rest of Sydney, by a dull booming far
out at sea. He half thought of getting up to find
out what all the noise was about, but it Was very
comfortable in bed. So he merely listened a
while, looked at his watch and dropped off to
sleep again. He made it a rule never to be called
before half-past eight.
At breakfast, where he sat with his wife and
youngest daughter in the big, cool room overlook-
ing the harbor, there was no muffled booming to
disturb his peace. He liked to breakfast in quiet,
making it a rule never to look at his letters till he
had finished. There were so often .disturbing
things in his mail—letters that asked for his
money, or wanted his rents reduced, or repairs
made for his tenants with his money— his money,
always his money that he was saving for
his children. They disturbed his digestion.
But he always read his paper. He turned,
this morning, to the cables. There was a cricket
contest going on on the other side of the world. He
read the scores with contentment, added up the
totals mechanically—he always added up figures
wherever he saw was happy when he
found that they were correct. Then he read with
interest a statement of an English lord that,
owing to the socialistic trend of legislation, he was
taking his money out of the country. The Eng-
lish lord regarded capital as no longer safe in
England. He was taking it to Turkey.
This gave Johnston a sudden qualm. Why
hadn’t that lord put his money into city property ?
Surely that was safe enough ? Now, why hadn’t
he thought of Turkey ? For a moment Johnston
had a dreadful feeling of uncertainty. If city
property wasn’t safe, what was? But the mental
vision of those hip, towering edifices in Sydney
reassured him. Earthquakes did not come to
Sydney, and he was fully insured against fire.
He put a digestive tablet into his glass of hot
milk, and was reassured. But he determined to
see his solicitor that morning and question him
about Turkey.
Suddenly he heard again—quite close it seemed
this time—those annoying, booming sounds that
had awakened him an hour before his usual time.
What’s that ? ” asked his wife anxiously.
“Oh, they’re practising at the forts, I expect,”
he answered, rising and moving leisurely out on
to the broad verandah. There he saw H.M.S.
Horrible coming up the harbor.
H.M.S. Horrible, as you know, was the flagship
of the Australasian station—one of those utterly
out-of-date warships built as an experiment by
Britain years ago as a commerce-destroyer. Not
finding any commerce to destroy, she had come to
Australia to defend a continent from modern
battleships. She had boilers that wouldn’t boil,
and the builders had forgotten to put her armor
on. Britain had sent her out to Australia so that,
in case of a European war, she would be safe.
Now Johnston noticed, with amazement, that
for the first and only time in her life, H.M.S.
Horrible was destroying commerce. Doing it
thoroughly, too, as if her long abstention from
work had made her savage. She came wobbling
up the harbor, her bow down, one screw wildly
thrashing the water, her top-gear dismantled,
steering in wild lurches like a wounded beast.
She ran down one crowded Mosnian ferry-boat,
leaned over on top of a Watson’s Bay steamer, and
exploded. Then, with a satisfied sigh, she settled
out of sight in two pieces.
Johnston was distinctly annoyed. This was urn
pardonable carelessness on the part of the Hor-
rible. It could not be permitted to go on. He
would go at once and complain. He ordered out
his motor.
But while he was brushing his tall hat a com-
motion outside, like a million crackers let off over
his head, brought him lumbering out on to his
front lawn. Most of his household were already
on the verandah ; and all were gazing, too amazed
to speak, out across the water.
He saw a herd of warships—strange warships—
belching black smoke from their funnels, and
spitting white puffs from their sides, steaming
sedately up the harbor. And overhead he heard
the shrill screams of a thousand devils; and
behind him from the city the noise of a thousand
detonations, as if the world were being battered
with bricks the size of the moon. And the flags'
floating over the strange vessels he recognised as
Japanese.
And while the awful truth was vainly trying to
beat itself into his inert brain, something big and
unexpected behind him flung him staggering into
unconsciousness.
When the smoke cleared away he found himself
half-drowned among the water lilies in his big
ornamental fishlpond. He stood up shakily,
wiped the mud from Inseyes and looked round.
His house had disappeared. All he saw was a
mass of ruins, over which the air quivered as with
heat. These ruins were burning like a volcano.
AncJ on the scarred lawn in front of him was ;
the dead body of his butler. Johnston felt sick.
He staggered away towards the heap of stones
that was his house. His wife ? His family ?
The whole front wall had been blown outwards,
and his verandah, where they had been standing,
was buried beneath a gigantic heap of stones.
Under those stones, crushed . . .
He fled blindly. He must get away. He
almost trod, on a dead body on the path—one of
the servants. He shrieked and waddled away.
Cidled his wife’s name, his children’s names.
There was no answering voice—only the thin, con-
tinuous scream of the big shells overhead and the
growling thunder of the explosions. A fragment
of shell struck the fish-pond, and a gold-fish hurl-
ing through the quivering air hit him on the nose.
His wife, his family, his house, his grounds—all
gone. And he had bought the freehold of his
house!
Blind terror inspired him. He must get away
at once. Ah, the motor ! He had ordered it to
be ready long ago, before the world broke up. It
would be waiting. Charley was a good chauffeur.
He could depend on Charley—always a quiet-
spoken, dutiful chap. They would rush away to
the Mountains. How lucky to have a motor
ready !
He climbed over a ruined fence and made his
way to the garage. It was at the back of the
house. It might have escaped.
The garage Was a wreck ; but, standing in the
lane, with its engine already throbbing, was the
motor ! He knew he could depend on Charley.
And it was Charley standing beside it, helping" a
girl into the car. For a moment Johnston
thought it might be his youngest daughter ; then
he recognised her as Fanny, 'one of the house-
maids. He recalled sharply that Fanny’s name
had been mentioned in connection with Charley’s.
They were supposed in the household to be
“ keeping company.”
Johnston was vaguely glad that she had
escaped. For a moment he thought of taking her
with them to the Mountains ; but the sight of his
house in ruins, and half his garden walls down,
steadied him. She would have to stay and look
after the place. There would be thieves about,
trespassers, looters. He would rather have left
Charley; but Charley was the only person who
knew how to drive the car. Fanny was a quiet,
conscientious girl. He would give her something
extra—when it was quite safe to return.
He came forward to make .this clear.
They had evidently not noticed him, for n6w
the girl wits in the seat—his seat, and Charley Had
got in beside her. > '
“Charley!” he broke out, “they’re all dead,
killed under the stones. We must get ayvay ;
anywhere—the Mountains! The motor’s not
damaged ?”
Charley stared over the girl’s head at a drip-
ping, dishevelled, grotesque, hatless figure. It
took him a moment to recognise in this dreadful
object the important personage who paid him
wages.
(Continued on next page.)


dfg
Zam-Buk Prevents Festering,
“Gathering,” Inflammation & Disease.
A cut or scratch is the gateway through which
dangerous disease germs enter the body. When a dirty
knife, a rusty needle, a splinter or a thorn scratches
the finger, the latter is inoculated with germs. In a
few hours the finger will become hot and throbbing.
It will be painful to the touch and swell all round the
injury. A little later the wound may exhibit a whitish
appearance in the middle of the swelling, and we have
what is known as a festering or poisoned finger. The
inflammation set up by the poison may spread until the
whole hand and arm are rendered useless.
The only way to avoid such serious results is to
cleanse the wound, however slight, and then apply
Zam-Buk, which is a powerful antiseptic and germ-killer.
Zam-Buk is a purely herbal preparation wnich, when
applied to the broken skin, soothes and purifies the
wound, and then proceeds to heal with new, healthy
skin in a quick, painless, and perfect manner.
Zam-Buk, which is a unique preparation, must not
be confused with mere ointments, with which it has
nothing in common. It pays to keep a pot of Zam-Buk
always handy.
Mr. F. J. Barnett, of Perry Street, St. Peters, Sydney,
says:—“l am in the employ of the Australian Gas Co., as
gas-main layer, and while at work had the misfortune to injure,
my hand. I treated the wound rather carelessly, thinking it
would be all right, but it became worse and showed signs of
blood-poisoning. I applied several ointments, but they did no
good. My hand grew worse and worse, and I suffered such agony
that I \vas forced to give up work. It was at this time that Zam-
Buk was recommended. I applied it, and to my delight the wound
immediately began to heal, and after only three weeks’treatment
with Zam-Buk I was able to return to my work, absolutely cured.”
1
m
&#//
'A
Zam-Buk is in-
valuable for Cuts,
Burns, Bruises,
Pimples, Black-
heads, Scalds, Scalp
Troubles, Piles,
Poisoned Wounds,
Pestering Erup-
tions, Boils,
Psoriasis, Eczema,
Abscesses, Chi 1-
blains, Cold Sores,
Pace Blotches,
Eruptions, Rheu-
matism, Lumbago,
Stiffness, Sciatica,
Bad Legs, Ulcers,
Ringworm, Bar-
ber’s Rash, Blisters,
and all injured and
unhealthy con-
ditions ot the skin.
Zam-Buk is obtain-
able from all Chem-
ists and Stores, at
1/6 per pot, or 3/-6
fbr special family
size (containing’
nearly four times the
1/6); or post free for
same prices from the
Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt
Street. S v ne y.
f .
SOOTHING - nNTIS E p rtc
*H " 03 cr 30
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wHicH excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This Has been the
acknowledged and Honoured
position Held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tHe
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tHe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in sucH a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
“Hullo,” he said at last; “you escaped?
It’s Hell, isn’t it?”
“Thank Heaven, I’ve escaped. But my wife,
my children ! And the property—the damage ! ”
A shell shrilled overhead. “Quick!” he ex-
claimed, involuntarily dodging, “we can’t stay
here. The Mountains ! ”
Charley turned to Fanny, who was clutching
him convulsively and sobbing into his ear. Then
he looked coolly down at his employer. “ You
see,” he said patiently, as if explaining to a
child, “things have changed. Everything is
different. Everything is gone—wiped out.
Everything must begin again.”
“Good heavens, inan !” cried Johnston, “don’t
talk ! There’s no time for talk. We aren’t safe
for a minute. Fanny, we can’t take you; you
must stay and look after the house.”
“The house!” Charley smiled sourly. “There
ain’t no house —nor nothing.”
“ But she’s taking up room in the motor. We
can’t take an ounce of extra weight. Why, damn
it, man, she’s on my seat! ”
Fanny shuddered closer to Charley. That
admirable chauffeur roughly freed himself from
her arms and pulled the lever. The machine
started leisurely. - ■
“ I’m taking Fanny out back somewhere, where
she’ll be safe,” ho remarked over his shoulder,
as Johnston, pale with fear and choking with
rage, started to waddle after the car. “ Then I’m
coming back to have a go at these cows of Japs.
We’ll want all the motors we’ve got.”
“ Money ! ” shrieked Johnston. “ I’ll pay you !
I’ll pay you anything! Make room for me,
Charley— please ! ” v
“Money !” yelled Charley. “Money ! What
the Hell’s the use of money now ? ”
And the machine slid down the lane.
When Johnston recovered his perception of
things he found himself trudging along the street
towards Sydney. “ A cab ! ” he muttered to
himself.
But there were no cabs. Johnston decided that
on an occasion like this he might ride on a tram.
But when the growing crowd of hurrying, fear-
maddened «fggitives in which he found himself
reached the .tram-line, there were no trams. No
for a.shell had gouged a trench
right across the street.
“Shocking mismanagement ! ” Johnston
growled. “At a time like this ! Where’s the re-
pairing gang ? Keeping people waiting ! It’s all
that Socialistic Government !”
He was swept along in the rout.
“Trains!” muttered a man beside him.
“There’ll be trains from the station—trains out
back. I’ll pay ’em anything ! ”
He flourished a handful of sovereigns in John-
ston’s face.
Money ? Johnston would want money—heaps
of it. He was glad that he could afford it. In a
time like this money was the sole thing neces-
sary. And that foolish Charley had said that
money was no use ! He felt in all his pockets,
and brought forth a half-crown. But he had his
cheque book. Thank Heaven, he always carried
it in his breast-pocket ! He would go to the city
and draw a hundred—no, a thousand—pounds
from the bank. Then he would pay some vehicle
to drive him to the railway station. He would
pay anything—twenty pounds !
He shouldered his way fiercely out of the throng
that was sweeping him along towards Bedfern,
and set out sturdily to walk into the city. A
maddened, wounded man, fleeing with bent head,
knocked him down. A woman clutched him and
shrieked to him to find her child. He shook her
off. Another woman passed, seeing nothing, hug-
ging her dead baby. He looked aside and went
on. In William-street he had to climb over the
debris of a building that was strewn right across
the street, and dodge beneath fallen telegraph
poles and tangled wires. In the park he was able
to run. By now he had got so used to the noise of
the shells that he did not even hear them ; but
as lie looked up he saw the sky-scrapers of
Sydney fast being reduced to nothingness. Yet ;
into that city of death he went, his need for
money thrusting out all thought of physical fear.
The frequent rattle of musketry told him that
somewhere in that hell Australians were still ,
fighting for their country. The thought stirred
him. They were defending his property. Brave
fellows ! They should not suffer for it. After-
wards there would be subscriptions, generous
public subscriptions. He saw his name in ' big
type high up in the lists.
As he t crossed Elizabeth-street he saw on a lean-
ing telegraph pole three bodies hanging by the
neck. Two were Japanese in Australian attire—
they looked like Japanese merchants he had often
seen in Sydney. The third, between them, was
a vegetable Chinaman. Evidently the two
Japanese had been strung up on sight as spies,
and John had been put in between them on
general principles of all-round fairness.
Johnston picked up one of the bananas that
littered the pavement, and ate it with relish. He
was surprised to find how hungry he was.
Here and there he saw soldiers—little com-
panies of volunteers—struggling bravely forward,
or dispatch riders galloping down the street; and
at a corner three policemen were vainly trying to
get order in the mass of fear-stricken citizens. A
vast fire was raging towards the Quay, and dense
smoke obscured the city. A man running shouted
that it was the Titles Office that was on fire. The
Titles Office —where the records of Johnston’s
deeds were kept—where the big books supplied
solid, enduring evidence in defence of the rights
of people like Johnston who owned Land, either
with buildings on it or otherwise. ... A fire-
brigade nearly ran over him. He cheered it; it
was probably going to save his title-deeds. He
would reward these firemen—nobly.
Two Boy Scouts—tiny fellows in absurd khaki
with red handkerchiefs round their necks—rushed
up to him. One had a sheath-knife in his hand,
the other a tomahawk.
“Say, mister, where’s the enemy?” a shrill
voice piped. “ We’ve been lookin’ for him all the
morning, and we can’t find our patrol-leader, nor
a scout-master, nor anything.”
“ S’pose they’re all at the front!” gloomily re-
marked the other.
“But this is a bit of orl right, ain’t it?” said
the warrior with the sheath-knife. “Only I
wished I had a pistol. This ain’t‘much good, ex-
cept for close quarters. You haven’t got a pistol,
have yer? ”
“ No,” said Johnston with a gasp. He should
have had a pistol. If he had a pistol he could pro-
tect his property.
“Orl right,” said the tiny soldier with the
tomahawk cheerfully, “ we’ll have to do for the
cows with this. It’s bosh ter, real war, ain’t it?”
They ran after a squad of infantry. Two of the
men lifted them on to their shoulders with a
laugh ; and happy and triumphant the little chaps
disappeared down the street.
The remains of the post-office tower littered
Martin Place. Johnston saw the Bank of Aus-
tralia across the driving smoke. He reached it.
The big door was locked. But the building still
stood ; his money was safe. He beat frenziedly
with his fist at the big door. Other men were
doing the same.
Then an explosion shook the great building. It
tottered. Johnston leaped back in time to escape
the fall of a portion of the front wall. He was
struck by a stone; he picked himself up with
blood flowing from his ear. And he turned de-
terminedly once more to the bank.
The way had been opened to him. That ex-
plosion had shifted not only the door but half the
front of the bank. Johnston and others climbed
over great blocks of stone and surged in. Human
debris from the street did likewise. The place
had evidently been deserted in mad haste, for
safes and strong rooms were open and ledgers
lying around. The locking of the front door had
been the only precaution taken. .
Johnston, with his cheque book in his hand,
was shoved by younger and stronger people away
to the back of the influx. He couldn’t see what
was going on, but probably these people who had
come in with him reckoned it absurd to leave
loose money for the invaders to annex, and were
taking the gold and notes —his gold and notes.
Shots rang out. Policemen were driving back
the looters. Two or three fell. Johnston, his
useless cheque book still with him, was driven out
of his own bank as if he had been a thief.
For one wild moment he tried to tell a police-
man that he had many thousands deposited in the
bank ; he tried to show his cheque book and ask
the officer to help him to get some of his own
money out of the place. But the officer brushed
him aside and he ran in a panic.
Stumbling blindly onwards, a blessed thought
struck him. If he could only find his solicitor !
His solicitor could get him money somehow.
Johnston retraced his steps, noting as he went
that a corner block belonging to him was a shape-
less heap of ruins. In a building close to the
bank he came to his solicitor’s oflice. The big
building was wide open. There was no sign of
the lift; but the stairs were undamaged. He
labored up two flights, and found the door of his
solicitor’s office ajar. Nobody was there. It was
all very quiet.
He pushed his way into the private office. His
solicitor was quietly sitting in his office chair, his
head on his arms upon the table. But when
Johnston spoke the figure did not move. John-
ston touched the man on the shoulder. His
fingers came away wet and red.
The man of law had been struck there, in that
quiet office, by a stray fragment of a shell that
had come in at the open window. His clerks had
fled and left him.
Johnston rushed in blind terror from that place
of silent death, and stumbled down the stairs.
Long afterwards he remembered that probably
the strong-room was open, and if he had waited
he might have recovered the box with his deeds—
his precious deeds.
There was no chance of getting any of his
money. Then he must walk away out back—away
out West. He flung his useless cheque-book from
him in sudden fury. And only that morning he
had been a rich man.
He started up what had been George-street. A
crowd of men were frenziedly tearing up the kerb-
stones with picks, and piling telegraph poles and
the remains of a butcher’s cart upon the heap. A
man in uniform shouted directions. They were
building barricades.
Johnston slunk round the edge of the growing
barricade. ,
A little man—Johnston recognised him as a
waiter at Pfahler't’s Hotel—stopped him roughly.
“ Here, no skulking ! Give a hand. We ain’t
got much time. The Japs’ll be on top of us in a
jiff. But we’ll give ’em what for ! ”
“ But I must get away ! ” gasped Johnston.
“Wounded? No. Just skulking. You’ll be
shot if you try.”
Johnston glanced at the soldiers in dismay.
Their rifles were ominously ready. He seized the
butt end of a verandah post and helped to hoist
it into position.
So for hours lie labored at one barricade after
another. He thought he recognised the great
stones he helped to lift. They were his stones —
the ruins of his buildings. And now the only use
for them was to build barricades. He got no
comfort out of the fact.
As soon as each barricade was completed the
builders retired, leaving it in charge of the soldiers
and sharp-shooters. More and more of these were
coming up. And far down the street the fight was
beginning—the furious, confused hand-to-throat
fight that afterwards bracketed Sydney’s name,
red-lettered, with Port Arthur and Mukden.
Australia was making its stand. It wasn’t going
to be so easy to conquer a race that did not know
enough to buy itself off with a big indemnity.
Big boilers were set at the street corners, and
from one of these Johnston got a billy full of hot
coffee. It was good. He never recalled having
enjoyed a drink so much before.
“ The Bank of Australia’s burnt,” said a fellow
worker, “ and all that big block facing Martin-
place. Sydney’ll be burnt out.”
The bank where his money was kept, the
blocks that made his wealth, the building where
his solicitor kept his deeds, the Titles Office
where they were recorded —all the signs of his
wealth obliterated in one day ! However, if ever,
would he get it back ? Johnston almost fainted.
But even at that moment he remembered, in an
irrelevant sort of way, that a foolish person had
once said to him that the capital of the State
should be in an inland town, and that it was
foolishness to have all the Government depart-
ments (including the Titles Office, of course) and
the head offices of the banks, and everything like
that, in an exposed coastal city. But such talk
was absurd. It was the proper thing to have
everything at Sydney. It had always been so,
and always should be so.
A bullet sent the billy out of his hands. Down
the street the fusillade grew suddenly fiercer ; and
above it he heard the barbaric “ Banzais ” of the
victorious foe. A torrent of Australians poured
back over the barricade. They were beaten. But
the soldiers re-formed for another stand.
Johnston didn’t wait to applaud it. He fled.
It was hours and hours that he struggled on,
out towards the north-west in the midst of the
rout of fugitives. He took one by-road after
another to get away from the throng, always keep-
ing his back to the distant firing. At last aboub
dusk he found himself alone in a muddy, silent
country lane. He was tired, dreadfully tired ;
but behind him were the Japanese, before him
the wide freedom of the West. He looked back.
A great shroud of smoke marked where Sydney
had been. All his wealth had gone, all the
evidences of what, only that morning, it had
been were destroyed. And a foreign race had
taken possession of the debris. There was no
possibility of recovering one penny of his wealth,
or of enforcing his claim to the jealously-hoarded
fruits of his long life of respectable importing
piracy. He stood naked—and hungry.
He climbed a fence into a turnip-field, and on
his hands and knees grabbed a turnip. Eating it
as he went, and jealously guarding his solitary
half-crown, he set out heavily for the West.
“I’ve read somewhere,” hp said to himself,
“ that station cooks are kind "to old sundowners.
And I’ve got half a crown !”
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


s
£
1
h>
a*
jL~
The Leader of Them All?
That is, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla; not
some other kind, but “Ayer's.”
This grand old family medicine
has stood the test for over sixty
years. That’s the kind you
should take. You cannot afford
to experiment, your health is
too precious.
You may not now be really ill
from some well-defined disease, and yet
you know you are all run down, your
nerves are unstrung, and you feel weak
and discouraged.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
is the strongest and best medicine you can
take to remove this tired and exhausted
feeling. It brings cheer, hope, courage.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disap-
point you. Be sure that you get “AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
trjteas&ia%e<s2Xsa
BIRDS
Custard With Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales, when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike. ,
The Standard Remedy which haa outlived the Centunea
SINGLETON'S ETE OINTMENT.
la nse since 1806.
"■““cures'^
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
df
gdf
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Stro
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
BREAKSPEAR,
c STREET, SYDNEY.
BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
uu. Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
gfd
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
gfd
gfd
Each Capsule bears the name
ORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —‘ ‘ WEEKLY WORRIES. "
Set of six, posted free, 6d, Bulletin
Newspaper Co. $l4 George St., Sydney.
ical
each
OLD BY
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/li, 2/9 & 4/6
r
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
OOUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA, and is the only
•*> CHOLERA and
ft
*>, (®) *>
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Beil Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Meta' Reeds, price 30/-, postfree.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/*, postfree.
-— =- 1 - 1 —•
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Mclb.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
f N f .'5v r >*lvf v • |S| '4ft
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENT'S FOR
-
Murray's English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Are you feeling run down ?
m
k
I
/■
¥/.
'I
\
IV
\Vi
BEECHAMS
PILLS
will pull you together.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
2£ British Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d,
POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, aH over *e world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Bkitish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A. little patch of Australia in
London.
*
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near
LONDON, W.G.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
THE BALLET GIRL
g
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Froo. Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of »
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Poet Free, Is.
for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
**o. BA MB <*-■%
Box 913 s G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
fdg
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending- all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully abont your case
and I will advise you
honestly and without charge.
endon Street, South
Regd. Chemist,
by Examination
Melbourne.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIWAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NerronsCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Sold bu all Chemists.
OF OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Go.,
214 George Street, Sydney.


New Rubber-Soled Shoes.
Tears of experience taught us many things regarding
•porting shoes, and we have embodied our ideas in this
*•* *tyle that is offered. For cricket, tennis or bowls
mm
m i
SSI
m
warn
mm:
fiSsi®
you couldn’t choose better,
and the price i$ a feature
that should make an irresist-
ible appeal.
The shoe* are strongly
made of white duck with
welted soles of pure red
rubber. They will give grand
wear, and perfect foot free-
dom is gained by their use.
Price: Men’s,ll/6 S Women’s,
9/6.
Mail orders are gent—
postage extra. Other styles
. . „ . „ of sporting footwear will be
round m our Spring Catalogue with re-building sale
prices. Ask for a copy.
PERDRiAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
K—
UJ
CO
u
FOR
<b
jS
a
fdg
/
<r
SOLE ACENT,
T. K. STEANES,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Water t
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by usinff
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES >
P'A>
0
x Write for
V B”
Catalogue ifiSa
SIMPLICITY ||g
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider.
mHE BULLETIN POST CA
JL Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of
Packet of Ten. sd.
Oil Engine
A POWER WHICH GIVES
YOU NO TROUBLE.
EFFICIENT ECONOMICAL—AND RELIABLE—USEFUL WHEREVER DRIVING POWER IS REQUIREB.
Moffat- Virtue Sheep
Shearing Machinery.
Aeraers nr N.S.W.—
Davey-Puxman Portable
Steam Engines.
AGENTS-
MOFFAT -VIRTUE, LTD.,
5 & 7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
And at 1* CarrO treat, A«Ma>d«, 8.4., ami Margarnt street, Toowoomba, Q.
Agents in N.S.W.—
KJ/gour Acetylene
Generators.
Sou Aaxtrrs—
OH Sheep Dip.
BLACKSTONE
Portahle
OIL ENGINE.
dƒ
* Universally
Useful Engine.
MERCHANT
Technical Staff.
.B. Ltd.
ENGINEERS.
Electrical and Mechanical.
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JS FOR ANY PLANT YOU MAY REQUIRE.
Agents for Allis Chalmers Co.
PUMPING PLANTS.
& Phillips Cables (N.S.W.)
etc.
Ferranti
e Brushes, ete.
NOYES BROS.
Limited,
109 Pin STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFDTH
St. George’s Terrace,
7 Pine Street, ADELAIDE.
Electrical Engineers
and Contractors.
mmmmmmmmmmmma
✓ rf>
“A.E.G. TURBO-GENERATOR
gdf
STEAM
■>: . ■
Turbo-Generators
implest, Most Economical and
'.iT,:*- V-; \' lf Sji. '■ . vjCiVv'v';- '■
Reliable Turbine on the Market.
Factory output 12 months ending Dec., 1908—300,000 Horse-Power.
STAERRER (& FISCHER,
40 Clarence Street, Sydney; 172 William Street, Melbourne.
Speciality Complete Electrical Equipment of Mines.
NORTON GRINDING
31 . i
R 4*
}ouu»o lAinaNmv
t\ W,.-'
wncmmv jo
3
LTD.,
Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
KEYSTONE PORTABLE DRILLING MACHINES
For Artesian Water Wells, Mineral Prospecting, Alluvial
Gold Testing, OH and Gas Wells, Percussion Core Drilling.
Many are in Operation in Australia, giving Most Satisfactory Results.
The Empire Hand and Horse Prospecting Drill.
GUTHR.IDGE L-td,, 263 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
gdf
