

DEWAR'S
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Minins and Contractors’- Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
» “ ’ !r •vr-rn'tTr ounAWnnAWn T>T. A ¥TS A
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
>ND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston Suction
Gas Plants.
See Wild Cat Column .
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
,■>.■ ■ 1 *
j -v* '*sL '
PH ONEED
LEATHER BELTING
Goarastbbb.
«/. C. Ludowici «& Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
V'
it back ,
1 must have
9
CHUBB’S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
tfimfcetj
y %a2E833& '
MOST ECONOMICAL TO USE.
rSt32OaZE
NEVER FAIL IN THE MAKING
all, id aXK&ui idiajf&j un* fast.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE,
&
\
V*
if
9 A*
0
A. $
A
K
H
*>
9
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And a* MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN WELDLESS STEEL TUBES
FOR ALL PURPOSES .
BOILER, WELL BORING, STEAM, HIGH PRESSURE .
Spigot and Faucet Pipes, for Gas and Water Mains, last longer and are cheaper
than Cast Iron, and infinitely better. ABSOLUTELY NON-CORROSIVE.
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD., 108 Pitt Street
I
Now that Summer approaches we beg to draw attention again to the merits
of our MALTHOID MINERAL FLAT ROOFING. You can construct,
for a very moderate cost, a roof that will form a promenade, a dining or
sleeping apartment that will be found a boon for the hot weather.
BALDWIN, GENERAL
FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE,
hopper waggons.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L 7n
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY LJl_
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
THE PLANT ADOPTED
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH, 1906,
against all makers .
A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
HKLIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
\ Water with Genuine Osmotic. Properties.
DEWMIRST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vo). 30.—N0. 1554.]
November 25, 1909.
■Registered &t the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY.
Including those Reviewed on this Page.
Wells, H. G.: Ann Veronica, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Parker, Gilbert: Northern Lights, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Little Sister Snow, by author of “ The
Lady of the Decoration ”
3s 6d, posted 4s.
Sheldon, Mason and Hausneann : Alternating-Current
Machines, 14s (id, posted lfis od.
Lynd, E.: Home Life in Ireland, 6s, posted 6s Bd.
Vlelba (Madame), by A. M. Murphy, 20s, posted 21s.
Kipliusf, R. : Actions and Reactions, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Oxenham, J.: Great Heart Gillian, 3s 6d, posted 4s. '
White, P.: Love and the Wise Men, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
McOunn, F.: Sir Walter Scott’s Friends, 12s, p. 12s 9d.
James, Wnt: The Meaning- of Truth, 5s 6d, posted 65."
Mackay, Oql. K.: Across Papua. 9s, posted 9s Bd.
Chesterton, G. K.: Tremendous Trifles, ss, posted 5s 6d
Phillpotts, Eden : The Haven, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Contains 20 of this artist’s lovely pictures, 15s, posted
163 6d, with decorations by E. Stetson Crawford.
S?= Britisb-fl«stralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
( irl POST FREE, £1 per year,
i-n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is' supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (ttearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon ged
periods.”
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung-.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 po9t free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibadlt. 230 pa-res, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sar-vaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
THE RED PAGE
Wells and the New Woman
Although H. G. Wells has given so much
attention to the future, there are few winters
of to-day more intensely interested in the
life around them and fewer who see it with
the same clear and penetrating vision. It
was inevitable that he would deal with the
tremendous question of Woman more fully
than he had done in the novels and romances
where she played a subordinate part. In
Ann Veronica (Sydney Book Club) he tells a
modern love story, and pictures a fine speci-
men of the modern woman. Ann Veronica
is self-possessed, a little selfish, and a hater
of sentiment. The revolt of Ann against the
domination of a convention-ridden father is
the kind of thing that happens in a good
many commonplace suburban families. °But
Ann’s disobedience and the fruits thereof
are not so much due to the foolish-
ness of the parent as to the vigorous
athletic girl’s desire for freedom and ex-
perience. “ She wanted to live. She was
vehemently impatient—she did not clearly
know for what—to do, to be, to experience.”
So she runs ofi to London and endeavors to
support herself and continue her studies in
biology with a view to taking the B.Sc.
degree.
Her girl friends applauded her courage,
but her matter-of-fact brother tells her she
is a fool :
Vou ve got to take the world as it is, and the
only possible trade for a girl that isn’t sweated is
to get hold of a man and make him do it for her.
I hats how things are; that’s the order of the
world. Like appendicitis. It isn’t pretty, but
were made so. You go home and live on the
vj. V. and get some other man to live on as soon as
possible. All this Wornan-who-Diddery— no
damn good. After all, old P.— Providence. I
mean —has arranged it so that men will keep you
more or less. . . . The world isn’t ready for girls
to start out on their own yet.
Untrained for any particular work, she
finds that the world is not ready for her
except at a price she is not prepared to pay.
A male acquaintance who renders assistance
wishes to exact the price, but finds her sur-
prisingly ignorant of the world and sur-
prisingly ready with her fists. Disgusted
with herself, and at the end of hex - resources,
she is ready to agree that the position of
women in the modern world is intolerable ;
and, after an emotional crisis, she throws
herself into the suffragette movement.
Her future, however, was in the biological
laboratory of the Central Imperial College.
It was named Capes, and the affair began by
her noticing the effect of sunlight on his
downy cheeks. At the beginning it made
the position of woman seem more intoler-
able than ever, for, in Sydney Jephcott’s
lines,
... woman still her desire must disguise
And never look Love in his absolute eyes,
But intangibly weave and famish and wait;
The idiot Chance her Imperial Fate.
Ann could endorse the Advanced Thought,
but could not cotton to the Advanced
Thinkers ; and the primitive desire of Woman
for the Man quenched her vague unrest.
In some respects the love story resembles
that of Hewlett’s Open Country, but it is a
mueh more minute analysis of' the woman
than Hewlett attempted. And Wells’ grasp
of realities is so firm, his tqpch so sure that
one feels as Ann Veronica did on reading an
essay by Capes—“to follow his written
thought gave her the sensation of cutting
things with'a perfectly new, perfectly sharp
knife.” Ann Feronica is not perfectly new,
its exemplars may be found in the pages of
Meredith, Ibsen and Sudermann ; but it is
cut with a perfectly sharp knife.
The Tired Kipling
Kip shows no signs of recovering form,
and must be definitely left out of the First
Eleven. Actions and Reactions (Angus and
Robertson), his latest collection of stories,
with thin slices of verse sandwiched between,
is below the level of his last performance,
and that was far enough away-from the first
four or five books. The Day’s Work marks
the turning point in Kipling’s story-telling
career. Since then he has never scored a
century, or rather (to side-step into the
Ring), he has lost his punch. Maybe it’s the
Nobel prize and too much royalty money;
or maybe he is just tired, although not fifty
yet. Anyhow, only one story in Actions and
Reactions is worthy of the other Kiplino-
This is an account of a journey “With
the Night Mail ”in the year 2000 a.d. The
flight of the airship is well realised, and the
“ shop talk ” not too distressing :
Tim slides open the aft colloid and reveals the
curve of the world—the ocean’s deepest purple-
edged with fuming and intolerable gold. Then
the Sun rises and through the colloid strikes out
our lamps. Tim scowls in his face.
“ Squirrels in a cage,” he mutters. “ That’s all
we are. Squirrels in a cage. He’s going twice as
fast as us. Just you wait a few years, my shining
■L ie .„ ’■ ;u ? d we 'H take steps that will amaze you.
We U Joshua you.”
es - that is our dream : to turn all earth into a
Vale of Ajalon at our pleasure.
The extracts from the magazine of 2000 a.d.
in which the story appeared are interesting ;
but the advertisements of that period are
curiously like the advts. we see in the
magazines of to-day.
lhere are touches in some of the other
stories which no other than Xipling could
give ; bu.t the verses are very poor.
The Casual Caller was prowling along the
shelves of second-hand fiction when the
Attendant came up.
‘‘Anything I can get for you, sir? Oh,
just looking for something to read. Well, I
can recommend this ”
He laid a hand upon Op. 199, by William
Le Queux. The C.C. shook his head.
11 Of course, you don’t want a sensational
novel. Personally, I like something liigh’er
myself. Now, here’s a man I can always
read ”
Clearly the attendant was a person of
discernment. But Joseph Hocking had no
appeal.
“There’s one of Oppenheim’s latest. And
Oxenham reads well. Robertson Nicoll has
often praised him."
The Attendant was evidently a reading,
man, so the Oallor sought an opinion:
“ What do you think of Weils ? ”
“ His adventure stories are not bad ; you
know, those Jules Verney things. I remem-
ber Robertson Nicoll said that he is a very
clever young fellow.”
“Isn’t Nicoll a parson or something like
that?”
“ Yes, he was, and his sermons are full‘of
the most beautiful quotations. And he is a
literary man. He writes the ‘ Claudius Clear ’
articles in the British Weekly and edits The
Bookman. I raid him regularly.”
“ Do you think he is sound on books ? ”
“ Rather. I’d sooner have his opinion
than anybody’s. I think he is the champion
all-round literary man in England. Why, he
makes £30,1X10 a year out of writing. That
was printed in one of the papers not long
ago. And didn’t you see that he got the
C.M.G. the other day ! ”
“ Alb well . . . have you got Stead’s hand-
book oil Ghost (Trowing for Amateurs or
Spook Raising far Profit. . . I forget the
title.”
Anatole France
iln a volume of autobiography, Livre de
Mon Ami, Anatole France relates that his
first literary project, conceived before he was
able to read, was that of writing a history of
France in 50 volumes. After spending his
early manhood aloof from the world, while
writing the masterpieces of irony which won
him a seat in the Academy, he descended
into the political arena at the time of the
Dreyfus affair and joined the ranks of the
•Socialists. He was over 60 before he re-
-urned to his first love and wrote a history
)f France. By that time practical evidence
>f the emptiness of politics and the weakness
>f human nature intensified the pessimism
vhich had always been in his blood. So he
vrote his history in a satirical vein, with
nore pity than bitterness for his fellows,
md clothed it in the thin disguise of a his-
ory of Penguin Island. When published in
‘aris early last year it created a considerable
tir, and it has now been translated by A.
V. Evans, and included in John Lane’s
andsome edition of Anatole France in
Inglish (Roycroft Library).
The preface is an admirable introduction,
s it puts the reader in tune with the author
traightaway. He states that at the begin-
ing of his work on the Penguins he was
mbarrassed by difficulties with regard to
vidence, and consulted several learned
almographers and archaeologists. They told
im that they published only texts of ”docu-
lents. “A man must be very vain to write
istory, for to do so requires imagination.”
ventually he found an historian, apd was in-
•rmedthat historianscopyoneanother. Thus
ley spare themselves trouble and avoid the
jpearance of presumption, for innovations
e really impertinences.
The history begiiis with St. Mael and the
evil. Mael, a missionary of great faith but
iling eyesight, sets sail in a granite trough,
th a rigging fitted by the Devil, and is car-
;d to the Arctic regions, where he meets the
nguins. Mistaking them for human beings
baptises them, and thereby causes trouble
Heaven. The only way out of the difficulty
for the Lord to turn the penguins into
mans. This is done, and St. Mael tows
3 island behind his miraculous trough and
chors it off the coast of Brittany. Then
3 Devil intervenes again to suggest clothes
■ the penguins, and the inhabitants quickly
mine civilised.
‘ Do you see, my son,’ exclaimed the holy Mael,
hat madman who with his teeth is biting the
}e of the adversary he has overthrown, and that
ler one who is pounding a woman’s head with
luge stone?”
‘‘l see them,"’- said Bulloch. “They are
creating law, they are founding property ; they
are establishing the principles of civilisation, th<
basis of society and the foundations of the State.’
“ How is that ? ” asked old Mael.
“By setting bounds to their fields. That is the
origin of all government. Your penguins, C
Master, are.performing the most august of func-
tions.' Throughout the ages their work will be
consecrated by lawyers, and magistrates will con-
firm it.”
Aristocracy and royalty are established.
The elders are assembled, and taxation
levied upon the rabble. Myths are shown
in the process of making, and by rapid
strides we are taken through the middle
ages to the time of Napoleon, who con-
quered half the world. „
Trinco conquered it for us, and Trinco lost it to
us. As great in his defeats as in his victories, he
surrendered all that he had conquered, ... At the
time of his fall there were left in our country none
but the hunchbacks and cripples. But he gave us
glory.
Half the book, the most interesting
half, is devoted to modern time's. The
Boulanger episQde Dreyfus case
are treated in a delightful style. So
are the intrigues of Ministers and their
wives which have made recent history.
Anatole France carries the story into the
future, when wealth became concentrated in
the hands of a few ascetics who controlled
industry by pressing electric buttons, but
never left their rooms and were without-
pleasure or rest. Then the end of their
reign comes by means of anarchists’ bombs,
and the crowded cities become desolate
wastes. All is begun over again—great
cities once more arise, wealth accumulates,
and men decay—the Endless History goes
on.
Thesatirc is not to be compared with Swift’s
in strength ; but the light and jocose French-
man, a dainty Rabelais, stabs humanity
more keenly than Gulliver. This is assuredly
a. book not to be missed.
The Great Literary Career of Ella
Mrs. Ella Wheeler Wilcox (whose circula-
tion they, all envy) has pushed out her little
book, called The Story of a Literary Career,
which tells us How It Is Done. She wrote a
novel at the age of nine, and after a whil
exchanged “essays” for free copies of th
paper they appeared in. “I lived in a worl
of imagination, and pictured for myself
wonderful future.” Mrs. Wilcox in he
childhood could play like other children
“despite my mental aspirations and literary
tendencies.” And after a while her mothe
“ wisely consented ” to her following a poeti
life.
We are all interested in the conception
and development of great poems, so it i
satisfying to read :
At a Thanksgiving Eve Ball I recollect waltzing
with a very good-looking young man, whom I me
there for the first time. The band played one o
Strauss’ waltzes. As we floated about the hall
thought to myself : “If I were desperately in love
with this man, and he cared for someone else
this waltz would sound like a dirge to me.” So
the next day I wrote a little poem called “The
Dirge ” (which paid for my slippers), and was
widely copied.
And elsewhere she tells us that her editors
asked her to “send little heartache verses—
those are what our readers like,” although to
some folk the effect of the poetry is oftener
a backache. But there is no doubt about it
that Mrs. Wheeler always knew how to
work ; she never let a day go by without
doing a poem, and she has even achieved
eight in one day. And some days the num-
ber of manuscripts sent to papers amounted
to 10. She would contemplate her mother’s
and the family’s and her own hard lot and
become despondent, “and I would awaken
happy in spite of myself, and put all my
previous melancholy into verses—and dol-
lars ! ”
Later, when she published her book called
Poems of Passion, she got headlines in the
American Press on account of her “daring,”
for the poems were imagined to be that.
But that is some time ago—people have got
a little hardier since then, and “Delilah,”
with its invitation to “ drop with me down to
sweet Hell,” has become quite flat against
the more lurid attractions of the modei'nest
and most bluely novels. -
The demand for Mrs. Wilcox’s verses is
consistent and strong. The folk who read
Mrs.'Wilcox and parts of Byron and Long-
fellow imagine that they love poetry, while
the stuff they love is no better than the stuff
they sing at the music halls with a waltz
chorus. Perhaps it doesn’t matter what they
imagine—poetry is poetry, and it will see
them all through. Yet it is disturbing to
have a lady of the calibre of Mrs. Wilcox
calmly calling herself a “poet” and encour-
aging friends who call her a “ goddess ” and
her house a “shrine.”
Ella Giles Ruddy, who puts a glowing and
extravagant account of Mrs. Wilcox’s per-
sonal and literary virtues at the end of this
small book, finishes by saying :
She has the genius to express in rhymed or
blank verse that which will give the nearest
approach to immortality that any American writer
thus far has even tentatively suggested ! .' 1
F.M.
BALLAD OF THE GOODLY FERE.
SIMON ZELOTES SPEAKS IT SOMEWHILE AFTER THE
CIIUCI FICTION.
Ha’ we lost the goodliest fere o’ all
For the priests and the gallows tree ?
Aye lover he was of brawny men
O’ ships and the open sea.
When they came wi’ a host to take “Our Man,”
His smile was good to see.
“ First let these go ! ” quo! the Goodly Fere,
“Or I’ll see ye damned,” says he.
Aye he sent us out through the crossed high
spears
And the scorn o’ his laugh rang free,
“ Why took ye not me when I walked about
Alone in the town ?” says he,
Oh, we drank his “ Hale” in the good red wine
When we last made company.
No capon priest was the Goodly Fere
But a man o’ men was he.
I ha’ seen him drive a hundred men
Wi’ a bundle of cords swuisg free,
Th at they took the high and holy house
For their pawn and treasury.
They’ll no’ get him aa in a book, I think.
Though they write it cunningly,
No mouse of the scrolls was our Goodly Fere
But aye loved the open sea.
I ha’ seen him cow a thousand men
On the hills o’ Gallilee.
They whined as he walked out calm between,
Wi’ Ins eyes like the grey o’ the sea :
Like the sea that brooks no voyaging,
With the winds unleashed and free,
Like the sea that he cowed at Genseret
Wi’ tvvey words spoke’ suddently.
A master of men was the Goodly Fere,
A mate of the wind and sea.
If they think they ha’ slain our Goodly Fere
They are fools eternally.
I ha’ seen him eat of the honeycomb
Sin’ they nailed him to the tree.
*Fere, Anglo-Saxon and Old English, meaning mate,
ompanion.
Ezra Pound (in “ The English Review”).


JL
w aee
3(%>
• Hf&fcJ
» dialHUd bV “jj
FERD.MULHENS f
GlocktngasseNSVUlJ
No. 4711 Lavendar
Water, in dainty,
conical bottles, 1/-
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne
Oases, with bottle of world-
renowned Green Label Eau
de Cologne. The case is
triple electroplate on nickel
silver. Elegant design. A
handsome present, 3/9, 5/6
In hall-marked silver case,
17/6, 20/-, 21/-, 22/6.
m
coi
DE
EAU
1
m
asssSSgi
WOW
Eau
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne, Green Label-
World-renowned for purity, redolent and
enduring- perfume, 2/-
Smaller sizes, 6d., 1/1.
Bound bottles, 4/9, 9/-, 16/6.
LAVENDER WATER
DbsolureJy pure
Manufactured by
F. MiIMENS
COLOGNE °/KH.
LONDON DEPOT G2.Now Bond SLrccP.W.
No. 4711 Finest Lavender Water,
absolutely pure, possessing: the
lasting: bouquet possible only with
high-grade perfume, 3/6, 4/6, 6/3.
THE HALL-MARK
OF QUALITY.
MIUHEXaU' 1
H<HI» hi
flM.MUlHltt
,-V©
“toil*
No. 4711 Cordiale. A deli-
cious, lasting and powerful
perfume. Unsurpassed by
the most costly French per-
fumes. In Cut-Glass Bottles,
3/9, 7/6,15/-, 25/-
No. 4711 Bay Rum, for
cleaning’ and restoring the
hair. An Efficient Tonic,
1/11 and 2/9 bottle.
z
0
IN pursuance of our policy of supplying everything that is
wanted to carry on the business of life, we sell Perfumery
and Toilet Requisites. We offer none but the best, and
quote the No. 4711 productions, renowned the world over for
purity, delicacy and a fragrance that is surprisingly enduring.
No. 4711 Soaps are celebrated for their soothing as well as
stimulating qualities. And the virtue of No. 4711 Toilet
Powders has been demonstrated by tens of thousands of ladies.
No. 4711 Rose Glycerine Soap, delightfully refreshing- and deliciously fragrant.
A balm to the skin. In lib. Bars, 1/3. In Jib. Blocks, 4£d. each ; three for 1/-
I
rtf
Household Toilet Soap
delicately perfumed with the scent of flowers
Specially Manufactured for
ANTHONY HORDERN <Sc SONS
Universal Providers
Sydney. -frJ
to. 4711 Cologne Scented Household Toilet Soap. Specially manufactured
for us. Large size, 5 Cakes in Box, 1/3.
Almond Cream Soap, lib.
bars, 1/. bar.
Buttermilk Soap, 3id. each;
4 for 1/..
White Heliotrope Soap,
boxes of 3 cakes, 1/- box.
White Orchid Soap, boxes of
3 cakes, 1/- box.
Heliotrope Soap, boxes of
3 cakes, 1/6 box.
Rose Soap, boxes of 3
cakes, 1/6 box.
Carnation Soap, boxes of 3
cakes, 1/6 box.
Toilet Water, Violette
| Marquise, 4/3.
Toilet Water, Cordiale,
4/6.
Toilet Water, June
Roses or Violette, 2/9
Toilet Vinegar, 1/-,
2/-, 3/9.
Cologne Smelling
Salts, 1/-, 2 /■; in
Leather Purse, 2/-
Lavender Smelling
Salts, 1-/, 1/6.
Face Powder Felt, Rose
Scented, per tin.
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne in Wicker-covered
Bottles, 3/6, 4/11, 7/-, 15/-, 25/- bottle.
fSiiii
iiim n
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne, Green
Label, 3/6.
A SYMBOL OF
PERFUMERY
PERFECTION
celebraf
'twe
prepared by the
Manufacloryof Cclogne
Cologn 0
ALWAYS THE PJUST. PBI2EB
No. 4711 Eau Dentifrice, a
delicate tonic for the gums,
and delightfully sweet. 2/-, 3/-
fe; I ,' 71
INIGERMAIMv
i
No. 4711 Florida Water, a
toilet dainty preparation,
1/11, 2/9.
%* C °LO,
Ferd.Mllhb
Distillate- j|
ijeOLOGNEiI
I
No. 471! Eau de
Cologne Imperiale,
!/•
"i | !. ,| ii P| !r ,| i
Cextra it 2
WHITE ROSE
ERD.MULHENS
COIoo M6
No. 4711 White Rose, a deliciously
fragrant perfume, 2/6, 3/-, 6/-
**
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne Decanters. The
Acme of Perfumery Presentation, 8/6.
Other sizes, 11/3, 16/-, 21/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery,
will Anprape BOOKS.
Hypnotism,
Mesmerism,
and
Clairvoyance
An Illustrated
Guido for the Amateur,
the various
methods adopted by
professors both before
and after Mesmer, and
showing: how the mystio
power may bo developed.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Life and Battles of Jack
Johnson, World’s Cham-
pion, illustrated, lOd.
Wrestling, by Prank
Goteh, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pacdia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, :i 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to M ksmerisk, 1/.
m” AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 J
&
i
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tiik Ano vk Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
A GENEROUS OFFER.
To Prove that
Harlene Hair Drill grows hair.
A MILLION FREE OUTFITS lo be DISTRIBUTED.'
j-x {-ft a-;.
pUysiolog^a l cull I vating and beautifying benefit of “ Harlene Hair DnD ” 1 aud
promfse? 1 ' USIBg llaileUe yOU Will be «“rprised-agreeably this we
Your hair will stop falling out by the end of the week
damp or d S ry P WIU 1661 " aliv °” iUstead of hot, hard, scurfy, greasy, sticky,
OO U P O N for Free Trial Outfit.
To Messrs. EDWARDS’ HARLENE CO.,
„ _ 95 and 96 > High Holborn, London, England.
l ry " Har ! eno Hd i': ? )ri11 ” for one week in accordance
n ffe , r, ° readers ot this paper, and shall be glad if
you will send me the •‘ Harlene Hair-Drill’’ Outfit, with in-
structions, tree of charge.
I enclose 3d. stamps for postage to any part of the world.
Name
Address
IJ6
Q
O
vJvv.v.y.*/
K*‘V.»W , ,V;
Unfortunately all
whiskies look alike
—that’s the trouble.
~ r x\.
Johnnie Walker
tastes different—
That’s the remedy !
Its the Purity and
Maturity that tells.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good whisky is sold.
John Walker & Sons, Scotch Whisky
Distillers, Kilmarnock.
p
c.
Born 1820.
'Still going
strong.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of tne Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Wincheombe, M.L.C. ;
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director*
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
CHESTER
mi
yv/
m
33!
“New Rival” Black Powder
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
THE RED w BRAND
TRADE MARK REQ. IN U. 8. PAT. OFF.
Shoot Strong and Evenly—Are Sure Fire—Will Stand Reloading
THEY ALWAYS GET THE GAME. FOR SALE EVERYWHERE.
An Imperative Need.
Until you are free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms—torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss of appetite, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishness, and the rest. In your condition
Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
speedily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
recruit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic Dureratives.
C
o
K
L
PILLS
TAKE
CLEMENTS
TONIC
IN ALL CASES OF
Weakness, Nervousness, Debility,
Low Spirits, Neuralgia,
Loss of Appetite, Premature Decay,
Loss of Nerve Power,
Poorness of Blood,
Nervous Exhaustion, Sleeplessness,
&c.,
AND YOU WILL BECOME A NEW BEING
STRONG IN NERVES AND PURE IN BLOOD.
Mr. Patrick Downes, formerly a resident of Oorowa, N.S.W., and now of Rutherglen
Victoria, suffered as few suffer in this world, and, after long periods of pain, he cured himself
by this great nerve and blood medicine. Let everyone read this remarkable letter so that
humanity may benefit. Mr. Downes writes (13/10/’O9)
“Clements Tonic, Ltd.—With sincere thanks I write, hoping you will be lone- spared to
cure many sufferers with your valuable tonic as you have cured me. I have been
a sufferer for two years with stomach trouble, spitting- of blood, unable to digest
.my food—causing me great pain and distention in the stomach. I was in four hospitals in
N. S. Wales and Victoria. Iri five months I had seventeen medical examinations. None did
me any good, but Clements Tonic did. lam a miner working in the Great Southern Consols
Mine, Rutherglen, for the last four years. I have never seen a Clements Tonic agent • I -wish
I could, for I would give hundreds of witnesses to my statement who said I would never
come out of the hospital alive. But, thanks to your Clements Tonic, lam living and eniovim*
good health. lam a poor hand at writing, or I would publish this IN ALL THE PAPERS so
I am sending it to you with my consent to use my name and publish it as you like ’
“Great Southern Consols Mine.” “ (Signed) PATRICK’DOWNES
Disease is everywhere, and so should Clements Tonic be to prevent and check it. Consti-
pation, Debility, Lassitude, Flatulence, Nervousness, Weakness, Poor Appetite, Indigestion
Depression of Spirits, Melancholia, Brain-Fag soon give w'ay before this sterling medicine!
Try it. All chemists and stores sell it. It is a safeguard against disease and heralds health. (5


This elder brother
evidently knows
how to play
doctor, in real
earnest. He
know 3 about
Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. His
mother tol<"
him. Her
mother told
her, and her
grandmoth-
er’s mother
told her
mother. It’s
the one stand-
■%s
ard cough medicine for children.
i4i{er’s
'Cherry 9eetoral
is entirely free from narcotics or
poison of any kind. It is the great
remedy the world over for colds,
coughs, croup, whooping-cough,
influenza, la grippe, and all bron-
chial complaints.
Accept no substitute or cheap
and worthless imitation. Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
r
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to an> one, on ten day*’ approval, oui
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
ftt loss than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £B
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port In the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted In each dis-
trict. Large iproflti
easily made. Write u. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Speelal Offer
•n sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO.. w asp LIVERPOOL
rriHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
The story
told by parents who have
cured their children with
SCOTT’S Emulsion is al-
ways one of intense
satisfaction. Mrs. Hale,
23 College Street, Bal-
main, N.S.W. writes (Au-
gust 1908) : “My little
daughter Lilian was deli-
cate from birth, and was
such a poor, sickly little
child that I really thought
we should not be able to
rear her. She made very
little progress for the first
twelve months, but we
then tried
corns
Emulsion
which built her up and did
her good where every-
thing else had failed.”
Recoveries like this are the best
proof that there is something in
SCOTT’S which makes it different
from (and far superior to) any-
thing, else, and every other emul-
sion, for wasting children. This
“something” is the power to cure,
and it is derived from thf
high strength and perfect
purity of the ingredients
and their perfect and
palatable combination
by the unique SCOTT
process. Of all chemists
and dealers in medicines.
7
The mark by which you pick out your curs!
WMSmam
wsam
&
/,s&[
m
-3
T^m&§
WHEN THE WIND BLOWS
from three or four directions at the same
time it is quite natural to expect coughs
and colds—these should not be left to run
their course, but should be treated promptly
by taking
Bonninciws
Irish Moss.
This splendid remedy acts like a charm
and will cure the most persistent cough
or cold.
The cost is so small that it is foolish to endanger your lungs and
perhaps your life by allowing a cold to run on.
All Chemists and Medicine Vendors stock “ BONNINGTON’S IRISH
MOSS. ’ but see that you do not get a worthless imitation—insist on having
“ BONNINGTON’S.”
IN USE 45 YEARS. BOTTLES 1/6 & 2/6 EACH.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD^ 'S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A, M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Carrie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
DEVELOPMENT !
26-
Nature intended woman to possess a Bust
Measurement in proportion to her height.
Are you deficient ? Let us tell you
how FLESH-FOOD develops the bust
to normal and increases the weight.
Send 2d. Stamp foi Full Particulars
and FREE SAMPLE of Treatment.
Falliere Flesh-Food Co.,
m Dept. -5, Linden Court, Sydney j
A GLASS dp
'mmp' *
tjORuCK?!
Halted milk
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
both
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horllck’s is on draught at ,
mbst Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples - 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
A LIGHT TREAD
When you wear Wood-Milne
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly—your step is light and
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the
nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wood-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
WOODMILNE
RUBBER HEELS
l are made in Britain, from new, •*
l resilient rubber: they enable you
to walk without fatigue, and give
surprising feeling of buoyancy
k and vigour.
I Look for the name Wood-Milne on
■ every heel, and refuse all imitations.
822*
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WHITE FOR PRICE LIST.
:quilable Building, George Street, Sydney.
S. SMITH & SON’S
(LTD.)
SMfTH A. SOM
3. STRAND
LONDON
wm
rENT
A
From 5 Guineas.
Perfect
SPEED
INDICATORS
ARE FITTED TO
Over 20,000 Cars
AND HAVE COVERED
200,000,000 Miles.
IN USE ALL OVER THE WORLD
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF
SPEED INDICATORS, MOTOR WATCHES, MILOMETERS,
PETROL-METERS and MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue. Special Terms to Shippers.
9 Strand, London.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Woman.
“God be sorry for women.”—If. Forrest (Bulletin
n/10/’09).
“God be sorry for women ”?—Nay, singer and
sister woman,
Sing the Woman Triumphant ! —the “ face
turned from the clod ” —
Wave of the mystical ocean, through season and
changing season,
Intoning its grand Te Deum on cosmical bars of
God !—
Sing the Woman Triumphant!—queen-sybil from
morn primeval,
Lo ! at her nod swing open the portals of Birth
and Breath—
hear and the anguish of Fear’neath her naked
feet she has trodden
As Overmistress of Sorrow—derider of dominant
Death.
Wherefore shall God be sorry ? —or “hearts that
are wise in women ”
Pity the shimmering splendor, the woman-waves
of His sea ?—
Pity the tremulous tides in the flood of their God-
ward setting
To the scintillant white soul-beaches whose
sands are Eternity ?
God be sorry for woman ?—that men for their
sport defile her?
Bo ! to the dark she has flung them, pilotless*
rudderless, blind.
For prey to the shark-toothed foes of their vani-
ties—vain creations,
With groanings to reap the whirlwind who sowed
in laughter the wind.
Dare man be sorry for God ? As the sky to the
hills thereunder,
As the sea in its ebbing and flowing—Creation’s
image she stands;
Strength with a mask of weakness—wisdom with
meekness hidden ;
Serpent and dove commingled, with the torch of
, God in her hands.
Yea ! Sing the Woman Triumphant! No dirge,
but a march eternal,
Taborand clash of cymbals and homage of waving
palms;
Diapason of life-tides throbbing! Look, weary
one, doubting sister; -
’Tis Mary of Nazareth passes—with the infant
Christ in her arms.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The Point.
The finest drunk, I think, I ever did
Was in Madrid—
Please do not hurl this rhyme back in my teeth ;
I know the Spaniards call the place Madreeth !
I met a lovely little dark-eyed miss
I longed to kiss ;
I know this feeling was quite wrdng in me ;
But she was simply grand, and so—you see ?
When I was growing tender in my cups
A Spaniard ups
And asks me what, by several oaths, I meant
By crossing over his partic’lar scent !
I .wasn’t taking any Dago’s cheek,
Nor feeling meek;
I rose and hit him—well, you know the law
Of first man in. He got it on the jaw.
Then in my back I felt a kind of sting—
A startling thing !
And saw, as down I floundered with a thud,
Her little skewer dripping with my blood !
I came to in some smelly place, and found
They’d brought me round.
I settled up the score without a kick,
Parting quite friendly—but I parted quick.
I’ve got a scar beneath my shoulder-blade
That poor girl made,
Reminding me, when I get fooling round,
Not to go treading on forbidden ground !
SPAIN.
C. G. A. COLLES.
From the Open.
Come with me, 3’e slaves of Mammon ;
Leave the halls of Grab and Gammon
For the gum trees’ grand cathedrals
And the palace of the pine.
Leave the black heart of the city,
With its scorn of Faith and Pity ;
Hear the sheoak’s whispered greeting,
Hear the river’s hymn divine.
Come when rosy dawn is breaking,
And the faint cool breeze is shaking
Gems from all the dripping foliage
In the gully’s dim arcade.
Where the magpie’s silver laughter
Ripples as it follows after,
And the gates of dewy frondage
Close upon the tracks we made.
Leave the city’s narrow places
For the wind-swept open spaces,
Where the great plains billow onward,
And the lone hawk sails above;
Hear God’s message as it passes
In the swaying scented grasses;
.Trammelled not by creed or cloister,
Learn the Litany of Love.
Come where far blue ranges beckon—
Sordid summits do not reckon—
Scale some great grey granite shoulder,
Whilst your soul with wonder fills ;
Soul and mind and heart attuning,
Stand alone with God communing,
’Midst the silence and the splendor
Of His everlasting hills.
N.S.W.
HORACE C. HALLORAN.


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING’S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Sapper Parties can be
en §f a ged for foar to 30 persons. Banqueting Room for
250. Seating accommodation for 700 guests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 3.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can be purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12,2/6.
A Feature of "THE BURLINGTON” is the
FISH AND OYSTER CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen's Retiring Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS
CORK TIPS.
El
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
«A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d> from “The
Bulletin ” Office
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
No. J 583. —“New Design ” Silver
plated Rose Bowl, £l/7/6.
No. 365 A.— Silverplated Fern Pot,
4jin., 18/6 ; 4jin„ 22/6 ; 6in., 32/6
No. H8949.—A1 Quality Silverplated
Centre-piece. Price, £4.
TABLE DECORATIONS.
We have a very complete range just now of Fine Quality Silverplated Centrepieces, Rose Bowls and Specimen
Vases, so if you would pick while the stock is at its best, you had better not delay. If you cannot call, write
for our Fine Art Illustrated Catalogue. Sent to any address. We pay postage to any part of the Commonwealth.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
„ ■ AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
•Strand Corner, George Street, Sydney.
No. JsB7.—Silverplated
Sugar Shaker, 17/6.
No. H4BB. —Fluted, Chased
aud Silverplated Fern Pot,
4Jin., 12/6.
No. F 6542. —Engraved
and Silverplated
Flower Vase, 6iin.
high, 11/6.
08303. —Very Handsome Flower and Fruit Centrepiece.
No glass to break. A 1 Quality Silverplate on Nickel
Silver, £7/10/-
No. J6lo.—Magnificent Flower Centrepiece, A 1 Quality Silverplate,
with Chased Tops. Price, £5/5/-
•U.l.
No. J5BtJ. Silverplated
Sugar Shaker, 13/6.
No. JsBs.—Smaller size,
10/6.
No. J 937. —Ster-
ling: Silver Flower
Vase, 25/-
No. G 3159. — Sil-
verplated Flower
Vase, llin., 30/-
G4299.—Chased and Silverplated
Rose Bowl, £l/15/-
No. G4S9B. —Smail size Silverplated
llose Bowl, 7/6.
No. <32426.— Silverplated and Chased
Centrepiece, £5/5/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 80.—No. 1554.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1909.
Price On.
THE LAST STRAW.
Under the heading, “Clerks is Pumpmen,” it wee announced last week that the pumps at the Neweastle coal mines would keep going, strike or no strike. They would keep
going “even if the clerks had to work them.”
Clerk (sometime in the future): “No, we won’t! This is the last straw! We’ve loaded wool, we’ve driven lorries, we’ve pumped in coal
mines; but even if your horses are on strike I’m d—d if we’ll put on the harness and the winkers.”


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1909,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 9.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly fray), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Alf Vincent, Norman
Lindsay and other leading representative artists,
will be the finest Black and White work obtainable
in Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
Tiir Bullktin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us immediately to ensure
supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
l‘er Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobeaddressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
•methods of address.
Business letters (with regard, to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bulletin.” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojlicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
htsufllciently stamped letters are liable to he refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 5000 words, dre specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it \will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that. it. is not. responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest, and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The condilions under which
such artistic contributions icill be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct, to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotc.h (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and.
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/d per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Liidgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA. , Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates.size 6iin. x lUin.,
■will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1909.
THE RECONSTRUCTION AND RE-
GENERATION MOVEMENT.
A certain number of people were in favor of the aboli-
tion of the State Parliaments and giving the whole con-
trol over to a central body. That was how matters were
managed in Great Britain. The result was that every
little Bill, many of them of a most trivial nature, had to
passthrough the one legislative machine at Westminster,
and there was consequently an awful conge-tion of busi-
ness which was unimportant to the nation as a whole,
but of great importance to sections of it. The Home
Rule movement in Ireland was simply one to obtain State
rights, and there was a similar feeling in Scotland and
Wales against centralisation of the Legislature. If, there-
fore, unification was found burdensome in a small place
like the British Isles, how much more so would it be in
the continent of Australia ?—Holman, M.L.A. (N.S.W.)
explaining things at a women's meeting.
The people who created the Reconstruction
movement made one grievous mistake —they
failed to remember how much this world
is given to being an Ananias, and how
shamelessly and unscrupulously it misrepre-
sents its opponent’s case when once it gets
started. Certainly the party explained, as clearly
and distinctly as words could explain anything,
that it didn’t mean to abolish State Parlia-
ments, that it didn’t dream of any such in-
sanity as the management of all the affairs
of Australia from one centre, that it didn’t
propose anything dimly resembling the' cen-
tralised Parliament at London, and that it w r as
only a Unification party in the sense that unifica-
tion and completely centralised control would be
necessary for a few days or weeks, so that there
might be a central body with power to do the
work of Reconstruction. Unfortunately it used
the word Unification, and every unscrupulous
Tory and every unscrupulous Tory rag and
every sham Democrat has represented it
ever since as a party which aims at permanent
centralisation. It suits their policy to do so, and
even if all the archangels explained the situation
to them in full, and illustrated it with diagrams,
the same old wooden fable would probably go on
just the same.
The Reconstruction party doesn’t want to
abolish State Parliaments, as alleged—it wants to
multiply them. As things stand, there are not
nearly enough. Switzerland has 25 State Parlia-
ments, Germany about 40, Austria (apart from
Hungary) 17, Canada nine, the United States 45,
Mexico 29, Brazil 20, Argentina 14; and there are
many more examples. In fact, of all the com-
munities which have adopted the federal form of
government, Australia is the one in which the
States are the largest and the most unwieldy.
And as the States did not reconstruct their
scheme of government when they ceased to
exercise their old authority, their Legislatures are
just as unwieldy as they are. The biggest
troubles of the case are these :
(1) The State debts are separate, and no one seems
able to devise a scheme for consolidating them under
Federal control, with a view to their repayment, that
will please all the six wildly hostile State Premiers.
(2) The State railways are worked, not for the benefit of
the people, but to fit in with the petty animosities of State
Legislatures dominated by overgrown capital cities.
Nearly half N.S.W. is little better than a desert, because
people can’t make a living at growing things when they
have to pay freight for perhaps twice the needful dis-
tance in order to trade with Sydney. In fact, when the
railway is finished to Bombala there will be the awful
spectacle of a place paying railway freight for seven times
the distance that is really necessary, merely in order that
its trade may be dragged to Sydney, though there is an
equally serviceable port at its own back door.
(3) Each State is hampered with a useless, and in four
cases a property-elected and almost immovable, Upper
House, which exists only to block progress.
(4) The Assemblies are in some cases needlessly large,
yet their size doesn’t give them any wider an outlook.
If N.S.W. were cut into three States, and three one-
House Legislatures of perhaps 40 members each met at
Sydney (or possibly Bathurst), Wagga and Armidale,
these Legislatures would have a much wider and better
view of the country they governed than a single Legisla-
ture of 90 or 120, or even 1200 members at Sydney. If
one person can only see so far because the human eye
won’t carry further, even 1200 persons divided into two
Houses can’t see much more extensively. The trouble
with the very big States is that so much of them lies
beyond the political horizon, and these outlying parts
are forgotten.
* * * *
Every real democrat* recognises these and
many other evils, but when separate
evil has to be fought separately 12 times
over—once in each House of each State—
the rate of progress is desperately slow. The
abolition of the Victorian House of Landlords
alone is likely to occupy about five centuries at the
present rate of progress. Therefore the Recon-
struction—or it might be better to call it the
Regeneration—party proposes a measure that
would wipe out a multitude of hitherto immovable
troubles in one act. It proposes that the Austra-
lian people should, by a popular vote on a ques-
tion of the amendment of the Constitution, and
without consulting their State Houses and Upper
Houses, place all power for one brief, dazzling
week or so in the hands of the Australian Parlia-
ment, and thereby abolish the present State Gov-
ernments and State Legislatures (Upper Houses
included), consolidate the State debts (they
would be all left in a heap on the Federal
doorstep, and all questions re the adjustment of
liabilities would be settled right there), combine
the State railways under one Australian control
and end the frenzied struggles to drag everything
to “our capital.” and, in a general way, start
things afresh. Then it would be the business of
the Australian Parliament to subdivide Australia
into 20 or 30 States and Territories on simple, geo-
graphical principles, attaching each inland district
to the nearest good seaport (except those districts
which lay so far back that they had to become
purely inland States), and to furnish each of these
divisions with a sane little Legislature of one
House elected by pure adult suffrage. (This
arrangement would probably not apply to the
Territories; these, being the absolutely empty
regions, would be governed by Commissioners
until they raised enough population to make
Parliamentary methods possible.) The new States
would start with all the liabilities of the old
States, except their debts; when the old boun-
daries were abolished it would be impossible to
allocate the debts afresh, so the Commonwealth
would retain them as a matter of necessity and
start a sinking fund for their extinction. The new
States would begin business with all the old assets,
barring the railways ; one of the great objects of
the Reconstruction being the ending of the dis-
astrous railway wars between Stages, the lines
would have to be placed under the control of a
Commissioner and a horde of deputy Commis-
sioners, with instructions to do their utmost to
give every district the best possible connectioh
with the nearest port that would serve its purpose.
And the subsidies which the Commonwealth would
pay to the States would probably be allotted as
municipal or shire subsidies are now, with a
view to giving the biggest share of assistance to
the places which have been most oppressed and
discouraged and retarded under the old centralised
order of things.
*
If anybody can devise a swifter and surer
method of getting rid of a herd of old grievances
and ancient obstructions than the Reconstruction
policy offers, then he should speak now or for
ever hold his peace. The fact that the policy has
a horde of enemies is obvious enough. The mem-
bers of the existing Upper Houses are against it,
because it involves their abolition. Every Tory
is against it, because the idea of wholly trusting
the people, and having no Upper House to block
democratic legislation, is abhorrent to Toryism.
The scheme would diminish the importance of
certain existing overgrown and over-bloated State
capitals, and that is calculated _to create
enemies. It would diminish the importance
of the newspapers in the overgrown capitals,
for there would be many capitals instead
of a mere six, and in these new centres a
powerful rival press would arise. That fact also
makes enemies. Then the Reconstruction idea is
calculated to shock stereotyped people who see
something dreadful in the disappearance of the
old names and the old silly boundaries. It is also
calculated to shock and enrage the purely parish-
minded politician. Such a person in N.S.W ~ in-
stead of helping to legislate for 310,000 square
miles of country, would probably speak for 100,000
miles at most, or perhaps only 60,000. He would be
nobody in a political sense at W r agga or Bombala ;
he would be nothing at Armidale; and he would be
a cypher at Broken Hill, which would then be
part of the State of Yancowinna or some such
name, with its port and capital in what is now
South Australia. The parish politician is a
Unificationist of the worst type; he believes in
the unification of the 310,000 square miles of
country that are attached to Sydney, and the
670,000 square miles attached to Brisbane, and the
976,000 square miles attached to Perth. The
unification of the British Isles—a mere 121,000
square miles at most—isn’t a circumstance by
comparison. And he seems even to hate the
idea of parting with the N.S.W. nominee Upper
House and the Victorian property-elected House
of Rich Landlords. But as he can’t say all these
things, his resource and the resource of his
kind is to accuse the Reconstruction party, which
wants to furnish Australia with about 30 sane
and workable Legislatures, of being a Unification
party which desires to cut it down to one Legisla-
ture only. It is a poor expedient, but Toryism,
whether it is open and avowed Toryism or the
disguised article, has to live by poor expedients.
It hasn’t any other expedients.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Nationalisation of Coal Mines.
Toryism did its best to raise a whoop of derision
over the announcement of Mr. Peter Bowling
that the nationalisation of the coal mines was the
purpose aimed at by the miners’ unions, but it
whooped with difficulty and its throat was dry.
The nationalisation of the coal mines is in the
natural and reasonable order of events. There
was a time when all the coalmining rights of the
eastern half of Australia belonged to one syndi-
cate. That state of things was found to be in-
tolerable, and after a long and bitter struggle it
was abolished. If it hadn’t been abolished, the
great Brown of Newcastle and most of his brother
coal potentates would have been flogged and sent
into penal servitude for digging coal. Then
came a time when the coal rights belonged to a
few people, among whom Brown of Newcastle is
prominent. That is also found intolerable, and
the time must arrive when the coal supply will
belong to everybody. The old A. A. Co., in the
days of its greatness, couldn’t see what right base
demagogues like the original Brown, whose
descendant is now about the richest coal-owner in
Australia, had to interfere with its alleged rights.
Brown and his kind can’t see what possible right
Peter Bowling and demagogues of his kind have
to interfere with their alleged rights. Yet the
right of the present complainants is as good as the
right of Brown’s forebears when they rose in
insurrection against the original monopoly. While
things are as they are, coal is a public necessity
and a national concern. It isn’t so essential to
life as are air and water, but it is almost as essen-
tial to civilisation, and a thing that is essential to
a community’s civilisation can’t be safely left in
ally hands except those of the community. Aus-
tralia has decided that the railways must be public
property because transportation is a national con-
cern, but the railways are useless without coal, and
if the coal supply is in private hands the railways
might almost as well be in private hands also. The
Tory press meets the proposal to nationalise thecoal
supply with hilarious demands as to how the
impossible thing is to be done, and if it was pro-
posed to do it all at once it would certainly look
a fairly difficult proposition. But there is no
reason why it should be done all at once. The
nationalisation of armies, post offices, telegraphs,
railways, etc., was done by degrees. The first
essential is for the States to acquire sufficient
mines to make the coal supply of their railways
independent of muddling, cantankerous, ill-tem-
pered and speculative private coal-owners.
Then there will be the need for Federally-
owned mines to secure a coal supply for the
new Australian navy. There are precedents
for these doings. The Maoriland Government
owns two coal mines and works them with
great success; the S. Australian Government is
acquiring a mine; and the British Government
makes the supply of coal for its fleet secure by
being practically a partner in sundry Welsh
mines. After that things will expand naturally,
just as State railway ownership expanded in every
country where it was tried till it overshadowed
and almost, or entirely, wiped out private owner-
ship. The efforts of steamship companies, gas
concerns and private consumers to emancipate
themselves from dependence on private muddlers
will cause an ever increasing demand for Govern-
ment coal, and private coal properties will be
swallow'ed one by one till Government coal con-
trols the market and private coal is a mere obscure
side-show, like Newcastle coal-owner Brown’s
privately-owned scrap of railway alongside the
N.S.W. State railway system. And the natural
end of it all will be ihe prohibition of private
coal-mining and the absorption of the whole busi-
ness by the Government. Goal lias become an
essential of civilisation, and civilisation can’t be
left at the mercy of any trust,or syndicate or
“vend.” “Vends” and such-like are too pre-
carious.
“ The Bulletin ” Meets Old “ Constant
Subscriber.”
The Bulletin gets a note from “Constant Sub-
scriber,” who asks for plain answers to five plain
questions:—
(1) What, in The Bulletin’s opinion, constitutes a
“ bloated land-owner ” in each of the three divisions of
this State (N.S.W.) in acres?
The Bulletin doesn’t know, and, therefore, it
can’t tell the gentleman who has supplied the con-
stant sixpences—in acres. If one acre, even in the
Central division, was the same as every other
acre, it might know. But—not speaking “ in
acres” —a bloated landlord is a man who has
grabbed more of this country than he can himself
use, and who exploits other men who want to use
it, either squeezing high rent out of them, or
robbing them of some of the fruits of their labor
by the infamous shares system, or otherwise.
(2) Why do not those mad after land go out into the
Far West for it, as our ancestors did ?
Because “our ancestors” got there first. Also
because Providence frequently forgets to drop
any rain thereabouts. When the land with the
tolerably certain rainfall has been put to its full
use, then it will be time to move out, and drag
the expensive railways after us. But “our
ancestors 1 ' didn’t all go west. The Coopers, for
instance, went east from Sydney as far as Rose
Bay or thereabouts, and became immensely rich
as land-settlers. Why doesn’t “Constant Sub-
scriber,” if he wants money, also acquire, gratis or
thereabouts, great areas at Rose Bay and become
a millionaire ?
(3) What would have happened to the proprietors of the
coal mines had they acted with the impetuosity of the
miners—now on strike—and locked them out, and stated
reasons later ?
They would have been told by the constant
d ropper -in- of - sixpences -to - The - Bulletin that
they had done the right thing. The coal king
can do no wrong. As a matter of fact, though,
the miners wanted to state their grievances. But,
as the Telegraph incautiously mentioned on the
day the strike started, “ the proprietors decided
that they would no longer be parties to the settle-
ment of colliery troubles by conciliation, and
therefore the [Conciliation] Board lapsed.” The
miners have been yelling reasons in the owners’
ears for three months past. It wasn’t their fault
that the owners deliberately decided that they
would be deaf.
(4) What chance of success does The Bulletin give to
any manufacturer in thi9 country, in the way of com-
peting with other countries, taking into account the fear
of strikes among his employees?
The Bulletin reckons that his chance is very fair
indeed. Compare this country with Britain :
According to Hazkll’s Annual for 1909 the
average number of strikes in that country each
year from 1895 to 1899 (both inclusive) was
793. In 1900 there were 648 strikes; in 1901,
642; in 1902, 442; in 1903, 387; in 1904, 355; in
1905, 358; in 1906, 486; and in 1907 there were
601. In 1906, 217,773 work people struck in
Britain, and 3,028,816 days’ work was lost.
These were years in which there wasn’t a single
big strike, and still the figures look pretty large.
Yet the Briton doesn’t strike with a fraction of
the energy of the Yankee, and he is probably
less strikable than the Frenchman, Belgian
or Italian. The Bulletin regards Austra-
lia, it being a place where strikes are
rare, as a good spot for a manufacturer.
Still, the manufactures of this country are not
going to have the chance they ought to have, if
the owners of the coal-mines are permitted to
“ decide that they will no longer be parties to the
settlement of coiliery troubles by conciliation.”
Either colliery owners will therefore have to be
told that this country won’t allow them to be
anarchists of that kind, or they will have to be
relieved of the trouble of owning and managing
the mines. Naturally they won’t object, as they
say that most of the mines are unprofitable.
(5) What is the difference between a large landholder
and any other large concern owned by one man ?
Carry the thing to a logical conclusion and sup-
pose that one man held all the land in the British
Isles. Then, obviously, that one holder of the
thing which everybody must use could demand
exactly whatever proportion he chose of the labor
of every man who wanted foothold in Britain.
Or he could legally give the whole nation notice
to quit, and thus cause it to become a dispersed
and homeless people like the Jews. Thus the
man who controls land controls life. It is the in-
dispensable thing. And the fewer the men who
control the indispensable thing, the more utterly
are people in their power. If a little thing like
that hasn’t already struck the man who buys The
Bulletin, then he has made darned poor use of
his purchase.
♦
The Twenty-five Bob Agreement.
Recently resolved by the Westralian Labor
party
(1) That in view of the fact that the financial scheme,
as drafted and adopted by the Brisbane Labor Conference,
contains no provision as to whether the said scheme
should be embodied in the Constitution or provided for
by ordinary legislative enactment of the Commonwealth
Parliament, this party is of opinion that the decision as to
whether the Federal Parliamentary Labor party has
rightly or wrongly interpreted the Labor platform in this
respect rests with the next duly constituted Labor con-
ference.
(2) The Westralian Parliamentary party, therefore,
respectfully declines to express an opinion on the atti-
tude of the Federal Parliamentary Labor party.
This decision leaves the N.S.W. State Labor
party as the only one which fights against the
Federal Labor party arid along with the Tory
crowd on this matter. And it is a more import-
ant matter than it looks. If the proposed agree-
ment that the Commonwealth is to pay the State
Treasurers 255. per inhabitant per annum is fixed
by a simple Act of Parliament, as the Federal
Labor party desires, then should it prove utterly
unworkable it can be altered by a mere majority.
But if it is made an amendment of the Constitu-
tion, then, however impossible it may prove,
it can’t be altered unless by the vote of a
majority of the people who go to the poll at a
referendum, and also by a majority of the
States. At last Federal election there were
2,109,562 electors on the roll. And if all
these could be got to the poll to vote
on an amendment of the Constitution it is
a solemn fact that there might be 1,895,157 votes
on one side and only 214,405 on the other, and yet
the 214,405 might win. It is all a matter of how
the votes happen to be allotted among the States.
For this sufficient reason the real democrat, simply
because of his belief in majority rule, objects to
doing anything by constitutional amendment
which can be done by simple Act of Parliament.
The Federal Labor party is fighting for simple
majority rule, and the N.S.W. State Labor party
is fighting against it, its parochialism being
stronger than its democratic principles.
. ♦
Food-taxes and Roof-taxes.
The daily papers of Sydney happened last week
on to a returned Australian—Mr. F. S. Isaacs,
formerly a stipendiary magistrate of that city.
He went to England to spend his declining years,
and returned again in haste because he thought
his years wouldn’t decline so fast at this end of
the world. The thing that impressed him most in
England was the cost of living, as expressed in the
item of direct taxation. In Australia he hung
out in a house rented at £llO a year, and the local
rates (£18) were paid by the landlord. In Eng-
land he lived in a house rented at £lOO a year,
and the local rates (£5O) were charged to the
tenant. Isaacs was astonished, though why he
should be astonished it is hard to say. Britain is
the most heavily-taxed country in the world,
and if the new Budget gets through it will
put up an even worse record than it has done.
And there is a fiendish ingenuity and persistence
about its taxation policy. In the first place, it is
the pride and glory of the Freetrade Briton that
he won’t stand “ taxes on food.” Of course he
does stand them—his currants, coffee, raisins,
cocoa, sugar, tea, tobacco, etc., are all taxed ; but
there is a sort of general agreement to forget these
facts. The great point is that currants, coffee,
etc., are things which are not grown in the British


Isles, so by taxing them he doesn’t help any
British industry whatever, and thus the Free-
trade idea is preserved, and that reconciles him to
his food-taxes and persuades him that they don’t
exist. (Tobacco, quite as good as the best Vir-
ginian article, can be grown in Ireland, but its
growth is prohibited lest the duty on imported
tobacco should seem to help a local industry.
In fact the Irish tobacco plantations were
torn up by the strong hand of the law
some 70 years ago.) Still there are not
very many food-taxes in Britain, and the
craving to avoid, as far as possible, taxing the
foreign importer makes it necessary to tax the
Briton himself in a very large fashion. He has
Roof Taxes to make up for the comparative scarcity
of Food Taxes. In one way and another the Local
Government bodies raise nearly £4 per inhabitant
annually, which, on a family of seven, means over
10s. per week. The tax-gatherer is almost the most
regular visitor that the British citizen has. He
comes round, of course, for the gas money and the
water rate. Then he also comes round for the
poor rate, the cemetery rate, the borough rate (in
Manchester, if you occupy a house valued at £lOO
a year, the borough rate may come to £17105.), the
police rate, the education rate, the general district
and lighting rate, the library rate, the public baths
rate and the improvement rate. Also there
are sundry other rates. And behind every
one of these is the shadow of the bailiff
and the ghost of the selling-up. Tread is
sometimes cheap in Britain (though it is des-
perately dear just now), but, when every three-
penny loaf is haunted by the ghost of 4d. worth of
direct taxation, the benefit of the cheapness isn’t
so very apparent after all. Next to the blotting-
out of the light by the landlord, the shadow that
hangs over the humble but decent British home is
that of the tax-gatherer—the person on the door-
step who almost refuses to go away until he has
received £9 3s. 4id. due for police rates, and
threatens bailiffs and costs, and at last departs
reluctantly with an assurance that he will be
round again next week when the money must be
forthcoming. He is part of the price that is paid
for what is Called Freetrade. The tax-gathering
spectre, in one form or another, gibbers many
times a year on everybody’s doorstep. It brings
the blessed realities of Freetrade to every home.
And the only reason why people don’t revolt against
it is that they don’t know that there are countries
where, thanks to Protection, work is more constant
and tax-gatherers are fewer.
The Joss Called Needless Haulage.
So many unpleasant remarks have been made of
late about the policy which insists on dragging
all trade over impossible distances to Sydney until
the railways become congested and the result is
partial breakdown, that the Congestion Party
begins to feel alarmed. The Congestion crowd
holds it as an article of faith that there must be
no great city in N.S.W. save Sydney, and no port
for foreign trade except Sydney. It is purely
parochial, and hates Victoria as the most serious
rival of N.S.W., but it hates every N.S.W. port
that looks as if it might one day compete with
Sydney just as much as it hates Melbourne, and a
great deal more than it bates black labor or
Chinese immigration or the Devil. If some
outlying part of N.S.W. is 40 miles from
a good local port and 318 miles from Sydney,
it must either send its exports the need-
less 278 miles to Sydney at ruinous cost,
or else, if the cost is too ruinous, it must let them
tot, in which case the people can give up the
attempt to people the outlying district and
remove to Sydney. If their exports are blocked
because it is physically impossible to carry every-
thing for immense distances along one line to one
congested set of wharves, then again the goods
must just rot. The back districts have put up
with this iniquity pretty quietly because, owing
to the congestion policy, there weren’t enough
people out there to make much row; but at last
the .system has become so glaring and so disas-
trous that the clamor of Outback has become
audible, and can no longer be ignored. So last
Saturday the S. M. Herald devoted two columns
to the subject, and in all that space it never
hinted once at letting any place in N.S.W. export
a penn’orth of produce except through Sydney—
where the Herald office is located. In fact, it
started off thus :
Let us apply the simile to our railways. HAVING
BLT ONE NOBLE PORT, PORT JACKSON THEN IS
THE MOUTH OF OUR SHAFT. WeLave penetrated to
the ore bodies that are represented by the agricultural,
illiberal and pastoral wealth I have but poorly described.
The stopes, drives and levels are the branch lines the
State built, and is still building, in every direction, and
the single shaft is represented by our main trunk lines,
which are no longer capable of carrying the products of
the latter to the mouth of the shaft, from which it is
distributed to the abattoirs, the holds of vessels, and the
millers’ bins, returning to the owners in the form of coin
qf the realm.
There is this great difference. The product of the mine
is non-perishable, but the product of an agricultural and
pastoral mine is very perishable. Quick and capable
transport is indispensable.
It was a heroic effort. In one off-hand sentence
the Herald denied the existence of Port Stephens,
Coff’s Harbor, Jervis Bay, Twofold Bay, and
every other deep-water harbor in the State.
Then, having assumed that all the trade of
310,000 square miles of country must for ever
come to Sydney, it delved into enormous schemes
• —about £40,000,000 worth of schemes on a rough
estimate—for duplicating railways, making devia-
tions to avoid had pinches, cutting down
grades, and a weird project for diverting
the southern goods traffic at Liverpool on to
the Belmore line, and taking it round by Botany.
But even if all these millions were “ blewed,” the
fact remains that the producer in the far south
and the far north would still be paying for hun-
dreds of miles of needless haulage, and the business
can’t stand it. Of course, the whoie cost of this
needless haulage isn’t charged to the very far back
producer. If that was done every far back town
would probably shut for good, and the far-back
railways would have to be pulled up. When the
far-back person is required to send his goods 200
or 250 or 300 miles further than is necessary, he is
charged with as much of the needless cost as can
be levied upon him without drivinghim to give up
the game. The rest is made up by charging extra
rates on the man who lives closer to Sydney.
Every suburban or short-distance passenger or
exporter of goods is being charged extra to make
up the loss involved in dragging the far south and
far north traffic to Sydney. Australia often
boasts because it doesn’t maintain an expensive
and useless peerage, but it has a useless joss which
costs more than the income of a fairly large House
of Lords, and the name of the thing is Needless
Haulage.
Skeletons in the Cupboard.
This old world is moving. At the N.S.W. Actu-
arial Society’s meeting this week R. D. Miller,
F.F.A., formerly actuary of the Mutual _ Life
Association, and now of the Mutual Life' and
Citizens, read a paper advocating a Government
Life Insurance Department. He proposed that
this department’s job should be to set up a stan-
dard valuation and require every office to annually
value its business on that basis. It might, he
suggested, adopt any other basis it chose ; but if it
chose another it should be required to show the
difference between the two. A life office has to
make two valuations—one of its liabilities, the
other of its assets. To enable it to pay its claims
as they may be expected to fall due, it ought to
have a certain amount in hand at any given time;
and the object of the Government standard valua-
tion would be to show to the policy-holders
whether the office had that amount in hand or
not—that is to say, whether it could later on be
reasonably relied upon to pay its debts or not.
But as it would be no use valuing the liabilities
unless the assets were also valued (because if one
doesn’t know what the assets are worth one can’t
tell what they are likely to really earn in the future
towards meeting the liabilities), Mr. Miller pro-
poses that the Department should also have the job
of “certifying in some way to the assets as shown in
the balance sheet.” This valuation of assets may
be a tough proposition, for valuations differ
enormously; still some check is better than no
check at all, and at present there is none at all.
How badly the public may therefore be deceived
may be judged by the recent experience of the
Australian Alliance Co. in Melbourne. This office,
which certainly has done no new life business
lately bilt Still has a good deal on its books, is in pro-
cess of transfer to an English co., and thus it became
necessary to make a genuine valuation of the
assets—that is, to find out whether it really owned
what it said it owned, and whether its creditors
had the protection it was alleged they had. The
capital of the co. was £125,000 ; but the valuation
showed that the assets were worth £59,803 less
than they had been represented to be worth.
“The sum of £59,803 which, according to the
decision of the valuators, was required for de-
preciation ‘ of the company’s assets, had
come as a great shock to the direc-
tors,” the chairman told the shareholders
in rocky English. Yet there was no reason to
suspect that this office was any worse than a score
of others. When one of the most highly respect-
able of life offices was a while ago taken over by
another, and when in that case also it became
necessary to have a genuine valuation of the
assets, the value of one single item was cut down
from £115,000 to £45,0011 Under circumstances
of this sort one can quite understand why State
supervision is not popular with some authori-
ties. They say that it would be no use—
it wouldn’t be effective. The chances, however,
are that they don’t object to it because of the
skeletons in the cupboard it would miss, but
because of those it would find. The last two big
independent valuations in connection with insur-
ance offices in Australia show how numerous the
skeletons are; and so long as they are
there, and so long as the public doesn’t
know of it, just So iong is the Commonwealth
Government neglecting one of its most important
duties. It is charged with the oversight of bank-
ing and insurance ; and it has done nothing as to
either. Without inspection and supervision the
skeletons are pretty certain to go on getting more
numerous ; and recent experience shows that they
are much too numerous already.
—__—<t- -
Touching the “Tote.”
The fact that even the Church is teachable was
evidenced the other day when the Melbourne
Anglican Diocesan Synod arrived at a resolution
that “Some of the more glaring evils inseparable
from betting would be minimised by the legalisa-
tion of the totalisator.” For many years the
Anglican Church, in common with its kindred
sectarian institutions, opposed the Tote on the
ground that any official recognition of gambling
would be equivalent to encouraging a “sin”
which, from a strictly Kerristian point of view,
was eradicable. Uninformed shepherds, and the
flocks who accepted the shepherdly dictum on the
subject as gospel, clung to the idea that the roar-
ing bookmaker devil, whom they hardly knew,
was better than the silent machine devil they
didn’t know at all. And the fiend with
the bloated bag and the pernicious personal
influence took care, and still takes care, to
diffuse this fallacious idea. But seemingly the
testimony of the police in the States where the
totalisator is legalised has at last reached the eahs
of all such parsons as have eahs to’eah. Anyway,
the Synod aforesaid must have “ tumbled” to the
truth that credit-betting is the soul of embezzle-
ment, and that the quiet, well-conducted Tote,
which gives no credit, and doesn’t have an office
in town or invite business by post, is a very mild
evil in comparison with the hawk-eyed parasites
who live by promoting punting on the one hand
and by working turf swindles on the other. In
short, the Church, or some of it, is now ready to
support a Totalisator Bill for Victoria instead of
opposing it as of yore. Had this conversion
of the Church happened a dozen years ago, when
Jack Murray was a working advocate of the Tote
in the Vic. Assembly, the needed reform would
have been effected. But now that John Murray
is Premier he confesses, with apparent regret,
that he is no longer game to reintroduce the Tote
question. A Bill to legalise the machine would
be inevitably rejected through the influence of
Labor members and others who, in all matters of
gambling legislation, are the mere creatures of the
professional gambling crowd. A dozen years ago
the opposition was not as powerful as it is to-day.
Private enterprise in racecourse proprietorship was
then a small factor in the opposition to turf reform.
But now the legalisation of the Tote, under the
control of the principal racing club, would mean
the overthrow of a power which is seemingly
strong enough to prevent even an attempt at such
overthrow. With the machine established on
racing club courses only, and restricted to a
certain number of meetings per annum, and with
bookmakers banned from all racecourses, there
would be an end to John Wren’s reign as a
gambling caterer. Even though bookmaking
were permitted on courses that had no Tote
license, the public patronage would soon die from
natural causes. Therefore Wren will fight the
Tote proposal as craftily as he did the
police in his days of scandalous law-breaking.
And this pretentious apostle of Sport seems
to carry a number of legislators’ consciences
in his pocket. Of the more glaring evils con-
nected with betting in Melbourne, Wren is the
most glaring. The vast fortune he gained by his
unlawful Collingwood Tote was drawn mainly
from the working classes. With his ill-gotten
profits he has created further temptations for in-
fatuated punters, and new hunting grounds for
rascality. A legalised tote, restricted to the bona
fide racing clubs in town and country, and con-
fined in its operations to not more than 50 or 60
days a year, would “minimise the more glaring
evils of betting” in one act. The opponents of
the Tote are those who would multiply the evils
of betting, and every professed admirer of John
Wren may be classed among the would-be multi-
pliers.
The Northern Territory, Its Proposed Kail-
way, and a Few Other Items.
“ Mallarapoonik ” writes from North Queens-
land
To the Australian who knows his Territory the broad
nationalism of The Bulletin’s advocacy of the transcon-
tinental “ Direct Route ” Railway is a thing- to which to
extend the cordial paw of admiration.
The wearying reiteration of “ Desert Railway” by a
parish-minded section of the press and a few backyard
politicians is partly ordinary' bald-headed lie, partly
selfishness and suppression of truth, and partly plain
ignorance, as pitiable as it is blatant.
That we have great tracts of desert country in Aus-
tralia goes without saying. Indeed, Australians have at
least one reason to be proud in so much as they own a
track of real desert which has few equals on the globe.
Sturt’s Stony Desert, lying partly within South Aus-
tralia proper, is a region to treat with respect. Those
who have viewed the terrible majesty of its naked, wind-
swept wastes outspreading before their feet like a purple
sea, can well understand the feelings of grand old Sturt
when, on his third attempt to conquer the pitiless region,
he failed, and, baffled and exhausted and well-nigh blind,
sank upon the crest of a commanding sand dune facing
the unniastered wilderness, his head bowed in sub-
mission, and tears dimming the eyes that were even then
being struck sightless by ophthalmia.
Though the Territory contains valueless country within
its borders this is almost wholly confined to its south-
eastern corner. Generally speaking, the Territory has
nothing nearly so forlorn to show in the matter of waste
lands as has northern South Australia proper, south-
western Queensland and YVestralia. The regions lying in
t .e southern part of the Territory would doubtless have
been as pitiless as anything in the world had not Nature
driven, as it were, a mighty wedge—the ilacdonnell
Ranges—into the heart of what would otherwise have
remained a dead, barren and despairing land. Those
ranges are the saving grace of Central Australia.
They stand for much fertility and some certain rainfall ;
also they are a huge natural water catchment and a
half-way house on the long transcontinental road. They
are the completion of a natural highway from north to
south, a national gateway—the key of the transconti-
nental problem of Australian defence and of ultimate
nationhood.
That the Northern Territory should be alluded to in a
general way as “ a desert country ” is incomprehensible.
Also, it is a lie, a malison and a slander. Certainly the
country lacks superfluity of surface water in its interior,
for these reasons : (1) Omitting the hilly coastal regions
and the mountains adjacent to the centre of the conti-
nent, the bulk of the interior is a fiat country not lending
itself to extensive catchment areas for water. (2) Being
mostly of a very level nature no great watercourses
occur on the inland plateau. (3) Owing to the porous-
ness of the soil throughout these level regions, surface
water will not hold in large quantities for any length of
time.
Against these facts may be placed two others : (1) The
Territory possesses a fair average general rainfall, as rain-
falls go in Australia; and (2) it undoubtedly possesses
abundant subterranean supplies of water. Under huge
areas of the Territory the underlying bedrock is lime-
stone. Limestone particularly underlies those vast level
tracts usually described as “ deserts,” and—write this
large on the national bedpost—the limestone is ivater-
bearing.
Under those apparently waterless tracts of rich porous
sandy soil, swathed for the most part with splendid
natural grasses and covered in great extent by dense
ediole scrubs, lie inexhaustible supplies of the purest
fluid in the world—limestone-filtered water.
And this water is obtainable at depths varying from
grass roots to 70ft. in almost any locality selected at
random. So widely distributed and beneficent is this
immense subterranean supply, beneath what appears on
the surface to be a wilderness of scrub, that even now,
virgin and untapped as it is, it supports much life. The
scattered tribes of natives to be found all through those
seemingly pitiless regions of the interior are a constant
source of wonder to the uninitiated. They ask : How do
those people of the desert live? The answer is that it
isn’t a desert. Far and wide over the vast expanses of
dead, level plain and bushland are to be found the native
w'ells—“ mickeries ”as they are termed locally—sunk in
slight depressions and seldom exceeding 20ft. in depth.
It is by these that the natives live. They long since dis-
covered the precious secret of underground water —water
which is even now awaiting exploitation by white settlers.
In some respects much of the so-called waterless
regions of the Northern Territory are similar to those of
Yucatan in Central America. Yucatan is now almost
devoid of dense vegetation and nearly destitute of in-
habitants, and never in the memory of man has it had
one single running stream. Yet when the Spaniards
arrived it was the home of the powerful Maya nation —a
nation which, even in its decadence, was strong enough
to resist for over 20 years the Spanish invaders who had
overrun the Mexican and Peruvian empires in a few
months. In this land of 29,570 square miles, which
never had a single visible river, are the ruins of 62 cities
which, by the beauty of their remains, testify to the
wealth and civilisation of their builders. Yucatan, like
much of the Territory, consists of a porous, calcareous
soil resting on limestone. The porous soil sucked up the
water like a sponge, so that the heaviest of tropical down-
pours never made even a decent creek. The Mayas tapped
the vast subterranean supplies and built up an empire on
them. The inhabitants of to-day have not followed their
example, but subsist dejectedly on the ruins of the once
universal system of Maya waterworks. Those waterworks
are still a source of wonder to engineers. In some
places long passages led underground to where the water
was accumulated against the limestone. One water
supply, discovered about 40 years ago, was 450 ft. below
the surface and reached by a passage 1400 ft. long.
The Australian who sets forth to develop the limestone
belts of the Northern Territory has what the Maya of
Yucatan never had—modern pumping' machinery. Good
water can be found anywhere in the Territory at about 70ft.
—very often at much less depth. This water is widely
different from the artesian flow of Queensland, S.A. and
N.S. W., which is mostly alkaline. Coming through lime-
stone it is, of course, filtered, and as such wells as already
exist prove, the water is as pure as anyone can desire.
The absence of running streams means that the soil
contains the nitrogenous qualities of everything that has
been decomposed in it, and is therefore fruitful, requiring
only irrigation to make it suitable for intense cultivation.
The irrigation history of the world has proved this fact
indisputably. So the future of the limestone regions of
the Territory depends upon the Australian well-sinker
and railway-builder. For all the wells that all the sinkers
could put down in a century would be useless without
railways to bear the products away to the market. Even
without intense cultivation, the Territory would be
enormously richer with railways. At present it is im-
possible to grow wool there, as the cost of getting it to a
port is prohibitive. There are enormous tracts which
are suitable for the pastoral industry ; but they are not
utilised, and never will be till the building of railways
makes the sheep a profitable beast.
Even mining is retarded by the lack of railways, for
although the products of rich gold and copper mines
might be able to stand the heavy cost of transport of
machinery and provisions, etc., iron, silver-lead, coal,
and other minerals cannot. And all the great mass of
comparatively low-grade copper and gold mines which,
with railway communication, would be highly profitable,
are dead loss under existing circumstances. It is
worth mentioning that the only strata in Australia which
resemble the rich diamond tracts of South Africa are in
the Macdonnell Ranges. There are infinite possibilities
about that vast central fortress of the continent. But,
after all, it is not rich mineral deposits that make a
nation. It is manufactures and agriculture. Both of
them require water in abundance, and the Territory, if
you only dig down a few feet, has it in superabundance.
Swallowing the Entire Pig.
“ Victorian Elector ” writes :
Deakin’S confusion treaty is having some weird results,
especially in his own State. There even the two morning
dailies cannot agree on a name for the new party, The
Age brazenly refers to it as the Federal Liberal party ;
but the Argus gives it the non-committal name of the
Federal party. The Victorian members had a meeting, a
day or two ago, to prepare for the elections ; and their
first proceeding was to appoint a finance committee to
whip up funds. They elected to this committee those
two famous and progressive “ Liberals”—Senator Fraser
and George Fairbairn, with Hume Cook as a sort of scout
and bottle-washer. Then, according to the Age report,
“careful attention was given to the preparations in
detail for the next election.” Finally, it was decided :
“ That every man now supporting the Ministry shall be
deemed the Government candidate, and that every man
sitiing in oppositiqn, or in the Opposition corner, shall
be opposed.” ’ *V
In this fashion the Liberal-renegades have put the sea)
It Was Never Contemplated.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Federal Constitution was drafted it was never
contemplated, etc., etc.— Ancient Tory Wheeze.
We have no precedent.— Another.
When old Adam bit the apple,
And thereafter had to grapple
With hard toil to earn his daily bread by sweat,
There’s no doubt that he protested
That his “rights” had been molested,
And he’s probably protesting strongly yet:
“ When this garden was created
It v;as never contemplated —
It was never in the schedule or the plan—
’Twasn’t even dimly hinted
That my living would be stinted,
Or that Work would ever be the lot of man.”
But in spite of protestation
Adam, with his lone relation,
Was evicted in an arbitrary way,
Even though that resolution
Wasn’t in the Constitution,
And his children have been grafting to this day.
But poor Adam’s old contention
Has become a stock convention
’Mid the Adams of the nations ever since,
’Mid the shufflers and the shirkers,
Crusted Tory anti-workers,
They whom nought but “precedent” can e’er
convince.
They’re the Adams of the race ; they're the men that
clog the pace ,
With their backs upon the vanguard and their eyes
upon the rear ;
Praising loud their point of view, and regarding
ought that's new
With a rabid Tory hatred and a vague old-fashioned
fear.
They're the men of yester-year loitering all needless
here,
And meandering around and 'round in aimless,
endless rings,
Ever ready to resent acts without a precedent.
Such as ivere not contemplated in the ancient
scheme of things.
“ O, it was not contemplated ! ”
’Tis the cry of the belated,
The complaint of all the Old Worlds waterlogged ;
’Tis the trade-mark of the Tory ;
’Tis the declaration hoary ;
’Tis the protest of the busted and the bogged.
Mark, whenever it is uttered—
By the lips of ancients muttered,
There i 3 wisdom lacking here, at any rate
For, when Tories were created
It was never contemplated
That they ever would attempt to contemplate.
There are many things decided,
Quite by precedent unguided.
It was never contemplated, by the way.
When the scheme of things was shaping.
And mankind emerged from aping,
That he’d ever learn to eat three times a day ;
Yet, all precedent unheeding,
Even Tories time their feeding,
And are known to be quite regular at meals ;
Though in neolithic ages
’Twas laid down by ancient sages
That a man shall eat when so inclined he feels.
He's the dead weight at the back; he's the log upon
the track ;
He's the man that shouts the warning when the
danger's past and gone ;
He's the prophet of the eld by defunct traditions
held;
He's the chap that sits and twaddles while the crowd
goes marching on.
He's the bloke that stands and prates, though he
never contemplates,
Of the things uncontemplated in the councils of the
dead ;
But the nation marches by heedless of his bitter
cry—
Marches on and contemplates the vital things away
ahead.
In the shaping of a nation
Can we crowd all contemplation—
Dan we plan it in a hurried week or so ?
Cease your ancient whiskered story
And observe, O gentle Tory,
We arc contemplating matters as we go.
E’en to-day we’re contemplating
Matters princip’ly relating
To the shaping of to-rnorrow’s onward way ;
And to-morrow ev’ry grafter
Will be forming plans for after ;
But we are not harking back to yesterday.
For the future days arranging ;
Seeking, planning, ever changing ;
Weeding out the old mistakes of yester-year;
Planting now the seed of new things
March the men who dare and do things,
Dpening up the unblazed road without a fear.
And, O mark you, gentle Tory,
We shall judge your measures hoary
By the use in this day’s scheme they represent;
We shall use them if we want them ;
If we don’t we shall supplant them,
For we do not care a damn for precedent.
He's discretion at its worst; he's a harbinger re-
versed ;
He's the obstinate old party who abhors the new and
strange.
He's the man whose ancient eyes ever fail to recog-
nise
That the Law of Man was ever Change, and ever
will be Change.
He's a scoffer at the Law; he's a blemish and a
flaw ;
And he whines as did old Adam when he lost the
realms of bliss.
When they, shored him in the cold in the parlous
days of old :
“This was never contemplated! You've no
PRECEDENT FOR THIS!”
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow. 7/11 Bridge Street. Sydney:
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
W FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD., j* ST5* ,*XS:
and at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney’s Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
and finish on their apostasy; and have, so to speak, gone
the whole hog—bones, tail, squeal and all. The result of
this outrageous agreement is that the Victorian electors
are to be asked to support, atone and the same time, thg
following weird combinations : —
Decent Liberals.
Sam Mauser.
Jabkz Coon.
R. A. Crouch.
Hume Cook.
Awful Tories.
Iceberg Irvine.
J. 6. Wilson.
Tilley Brown.
George Fairbairn.
At the same time, these electors are called upon to vote
against George Wise, of Gippsland, who is a first-class
Democrat. Because Wise refuses to trot behind the affable
and shifty Deakix he has been declared accursed, and his
seat is to'be attacked. Apparently, too, the Age, which
calls itself (and it ought to know) a “Liberal organ,” is
going to support this dreadful mixture. The Argus will
do so, of course; and if the Age follows suit Victoria
will have the rare spectacle of a confessedly Tory paper
and an allegedly Liberal one hollering loudly for the same
men. If the Age hollers as loudly as it usually does at
election times, old David Symk’s ghost will probably rise
and invade the office. At any rate the electors will tie
driven mad ; and will probably leap up in their wrath
and wreck both offices.
♦
The Latest Arbitration Award.
The award of Justice Higgins, president of the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, in the boot
trade dispute, shows this sensible mode of
settling an argument in fine contrast to the con-
temptible methods adopted by the N.S.W. coal-
owners. The federated boot operatives of Aus-
tralia, numbering some 5000 persons, made certain
claims against the 39 principal boot manufacturers
(confined to the four more populous States).
The employers, like their coal-owning fellows,
merely put in a contemptuous answer to the effect
that there was no dispute, or if there was it didn’t
extend beyond the limits of one State, and there-
fore the Court had no jurisdiction. Mr. Higgins
speedily decided that there was a dispute, per-
vading the whole body of boot employees in the
four States, “ such as must have broken out in
strikes and suspension of work but for the hope of
relief from, the Court. The dispute as to wages
and the employment of apprentices had been
traced back, at least in Victoria, to the year 1883,
since when the unions had been vainly trying
to meet the employers and fix up the questions .” So
he went ahead. In most of the 23 claims made by
the employees he either found there was no
violent or general dispute, or he found against
them ; but in two of the claims he gave substan-
tial relief—increased wages and a restriction of
the old unlimited boy labor. Briefly, he fixed his
award for five years, at Is. l£d. per hour for male
adults —545. per week of 48 hours. In making that
rate Justice Higgins dropped the lawyer and
became the sensible business man. He laid
it down that “ there could be no indus-
trial peace unless and until the average em-
ployee had secured .to him wages sufficient
to procure for him the essentials of human exist-
ence.” He then sought to discover “ the least
sum sufficient to satisfy the normal needs of the
employee regarded as a human being living in a
civilised community.” That sum, on evidence
gathered from five States, he found to be 7s. per
day at present for the unskilled laborer. The
claimants possessed admitted special skill, so he
fixed 9s. for them. As the present minimum
wages in the four interested States vary from 40s.
to 485., he allows a transition period, so that Vic .
and N.S.W. must pay 525. for the first year after
the award comes into effect and 545. thereafter ;
S.A., 48s. the first year, 525. the second, and 545.
thereafter; Queensland, 445. the first, 48s. the
second, 525. the third, and 545. thereafter. As to
the boy labor problem, Mr. Higgins said there was
urgent need for the State Legislatures to tackle the
question of apprenticeship, and though he favored
a system of half-time employment of lads and
compulsory attendance at technical schools, he
could only make a suggestion in that direction.
So, temporarily, he fixed seven functions or pro-
cesses in bootmaking, to any one or more of which
a boy must be apprenticed, for seven years, at
wages running in regular gradations from 7s. at
15 years to 48s. at 20£ years. The number of
apprentices must in no case exceed the proportion
of one to every tvvo adults. Old, infirm and slow
workers are,to be allowed permits which must state
the grounds on which they are granted and the
wage permitted, and must relate to one employer
only. These may be . issued, for yearly periods
only, by the Chief Factories’ Inspector or his sub-
stitute, with the written consent of the general
secretary or State secretary of the claimant organi-
sation (which means the Boot Operatives’ Union),
or with the approval of the Board of Reference,
provisions for constituting which are set forth.
Having thus fixed things up, Justice Higgins said
he wasn’t quite sure whether, remembering the
High Court decision in the Federated Sawmillers’
case, some of the provisions of his award might
not be regarded as inconsistent with Wages
Board determinations, wherefore he intended
to state a case for the High Court. If,
by any chance, the High Court should declare
this award invalid, Mr. Higgins’ judgment will,
in itself, constitute a strong plea for the imme- j
diate transfer of all industrial legislation from the
States to the Commonwealth. It emphasises the >
absurdity of four varying Wages Board determi-
nations in four contiguous districts of the Common-
wealth, the consequent unfair competition between
different sets of manufacturers, and the unneces-
sary striving after decent conditions by four sets
of employees, when one application to one Court
can settle the whole matter easily, adequately and
speedily. In a word, the judgment is a lesson in
common-sense, an essay on the absurdity of lock-
outs and strikes, and a sermon on the futility of
divided control when undivided control can begot
at a lower price.
+.
A question which certainly looked amazingly
stupid, whatever hidden wisdom might lie behind
it, was lately put on the Senate notice-paper by
Senator Gray, of N.S.W.:—
(1) Is it a fact that members of the Northern Territory
League of South Australia (represented by Mr. Lindsay,
who delivered lectures to members of the Senate and
House of Representatives), own large tracts of land in the
Northern Territory?
(2) Will the Government take immediate steps to ascer-
tain the truth or otherwise of these statements?
(3) If the League or its members do own lands in the
Northern Territory, will the Government report to the
House the quantity of land so owned ?
(4) Will the Government ascertain the conditions of
purchase and values of the lands so owned, and report to
the Senate ?
The can give Senator Gray the names
of at least two earnest and hard-working members
of the League, one of whom owns no land in all
the world save a cemetery allotment, while the
other possesses nothing but his energy and his
debts. But supposing some members of the
League do own land in the Territory, what
is Mr. Gray driving at ? The League
wants a railway through the Territory to
Port Augusta, which may enhance the value
of some Leaguers’ lands if they have any.
Mr. Gray and his friends want a railway through
the Territory (which will equally enhance the
value of some Leaguers’lands, if they have any),
and then they want a long deviation through
Queensland and N.S. W. That clamor for the long
and expensive deviation seems rather to raise a
question as to the whereabouts of the lands of
Mr. Gray’s friends (The Bulletin has never
heard of Mr. Gray him Self as a land-owner).
According to Mr. Gray’s line of thought, it seems
very important to find out whereabouts in Queens-
land and N.S. W. the lands of the advocates of the
deviation are situated.
<►
Just as this issue was going to press a belated
Melbourne correspondent sent along this cutting
from the Labor Call of November 11—which is
pretty far back :
It is well known that The Bulletin has always supported
Dalgety as the Capital site, and for doing this has earned
the hostility of many of the New South Wales representa-
tives in the Federal Parliament, and when Kelly was
speaking on this question, he inferred that if The Bul-
letin could get a few advertisements its support could be
obtained, and he instanced its change of attitude towards
the Tobacco Trust after it got a good advertisement.
He was asked, “ What about the starch industry ? ” And
Kelly replied: “ I remember a very violent article
which The Lone Hand published against the member for
Mernda (Mr. Robert Harper), an article in which he was
held up to public contempt and ridicule. The following
week a full page advertisement in regard to a certain
manufacture appeared in The Bulletin, and the next
issue of The Lone Hand contained an apology to the
honorable member for Mernda." This was rather rough
on The Bulletin.
The Bulletin was aware that Willie Kelly had
made the statements in question ; but as he care-
fully made them under cover of Parliamentary
privilege it seemed hardly worth while interfer-
ing. Parliamentary privilege is a curious thing;
if the manager of this paper was in Par-
liament and Willie Kelly was not, then
the said manager could call Kelly an evil-
minded and malicious liar, or any trifle of
that sort, with complete impunity. It seems a re-
markable circumstance ; but that is how the case
stands. The Labor Call, however, is not privi-
leged, therefore the habit of reprinting any
member’s slanders may one day prove ex-
pensive. The old Tobacco Trust lie has
been exposed before, and isn’t worth wasting space
upon now. As regards the Harper fabrication,
the simple answer is that the Lone Hand did not
apologise to the Harper firm or withdraw any-
thing it said (the paragraph on which this lie
was based appeared on page 443 of the Lone
Hand for August, 1907), and this notwithstanding
that the firm paid for a whole page of The
Bulletin’s advertising space in which to state
its case. Therefore the charge against W. Kelly
is that he invented an imaginary apology in order
to make up a particularly mean case—-unless W.
Kelly can offer some better explanation of his
conduct.
♦- —■
It was known in advance that Rep. Bamford, of
Queensland, intended to move a large, wild
amendment on the Federal Electoral Bill, and he
made even a bigger effort than was expected.
This was his proposition
Subsequent to the day of nomination and until after
polling-day any newspaper may print and publish the
speech of any candidate, but if any newspaper shall print
and publish the .speech of any candidate meh paper shall
give equal space and prominence to each, but shall not
comment in any way upon any such speech during the
period aforesaid, and shall not in its leading columns or
otherwise advocate ANY POLICY or party or in any way
attempt to influence the vote of any elector. Penalty
£5OO or six months.
Now did Bamford really know what this was
loaded with ? Here are some points :
(1) There might easily be 200 candidates. As publica-
tion of “ the speech ” of one would involve publishing
“ the speech ” of the other 199 all publication would stop.
(2) Besides it is impossible to give “ equal prominence ”
to even six speeches any more than it is possible to put
every advertisement next to the. leading article. No
paper is all page No. 1, column No. 1.
(3) Furthermore, if a paper at Balmain couldn’t publish
a speech by a candidate at Balinain unless it also pub-
lished the speech of the candidate at Roebourne (North-
West-Australia) who would pay for telegraphing the
speech of the candidate at Roebourne?
(4) If Bamford meant that a paper must not publish
the speech of a candidate without also printing the
speeches of the other candidates in the same electorate,
why didn’t he say so?
(5) What did Bamford mean, anyhow; by “ the speech”?
Did he mean all the speeches? Or would it do, if one
speech was selected in each case., so that the successful
meeting of one candidate might be reported, while the
other one only got a full account of the occasion when he
struck a hostile audience and was howled down and
egged ?
(6) If papers were not allowed to advocate “ any policy ”
during election time, what would they fill up with?
Even the advocacy of a more liberal policy towards the
Poles in Germany would apparently mean £5OO fine.
On the whole, it looks as if Bamford, M.H.R.,
had better think up something else.
“ Oby ” : There should be a Council of
Geographers or some similar body to name newly-
discovered places. An International Council of
Botanists sits every five years to definitely name
discoveries made in botany, and astronomers have
regulations which prevent Smith and Jones past-
ing the names of Uncle Parker and Aunt Maria
and Tootkins the baby on to new stars. But the
geographical discoverer is allowed to run loose, so
Shackleton calls new Antarctic mountains after
Asquith, Harcourt and that eminent Jeames of
journalism, Henry Lucy. And in Papua hardly
a week passes without a new mountain, valley,
creek or river being named after a mayor or a per-
son named Boggs.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Roval “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
Her Majesty's “ Havana.”
Criterion “ Othello.”
Palace “ The Heart of a Hero.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Lady Dandies.”
Theatre Royal “The Belle of Mayfair.”
King’s “The White Heather.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
“Sweet Nell of Old Drury,” at Sydney
Royal, is not quite the show it was in 1902; hut
it is a fine entertainment, nevertheless. The
falling-off is not the fault of either of the princi-
pals : Nellie Stewart is just as captivating as ever,
and Harcourt Beatty has taken the seven years as
easily as a pinch of snuff. It is in the support
that the present production loses on comparison
with that of ’O2. Frederick Moyes, as Lord
Jeffreys, is weak. In the original production his
part was taken by Albert Gran, who played it to
the hilt. Gran was blessed with a lgoffr.se voice,
“ SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY ” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
The bad Chief Justice (Frederick Moves) foiled
by Sweet Nell (Nellie Stewart).
and as Jeffreys he used it cleverly to portray a
choleric, bloodthirsty and vindictive man. The
Lord Chief Justice of Gran was a human volcano
which erupted terribly at intervals and smouldered
in between times. Moyes makes the Judge
a rather amiable person whose fury merely in
terests. A. J. Patrick as the harassed lover. Sir
Roger Fairfax, is somewhat stiff in the joints ;
Tern pier Powell and Conway Wingfield are
moderately good as Charles’ disreputable friends ;
but Madeleine Mereditli and Gwen Burroughs, as
Lady Castlernaine and the Duchess of Ports-
mouth, are not much above good amateur
level. Rosslyn Vane makes a gentle Olivia
Vernon who hardly seems to merit locking
up. However, despite the company’s tend-
ency to weakness, the admirably-constructed
play goes like a lighted timber-yard. In this
production, Charles and Nell quite dwarf the
other characters Gran, by forceful acting, made
Jeffreys of little'less importance than Charles.
Put briefly, the Jeffreys of Gran threw a sinister
shadow even when not in the vicinity; the
Jeffreys of Moyes sometimes even forgets to bring
his shadow with him. Mr. Ashford portrays
Jeffreys’ spy as a sort of oily deacon who
drawls through his nose, and is for ever
washing his hands with invisible soap. A
person who wailed through his nose would not
have been trusted at Charles’ court. “Sweet
Nell ” will hand Charles Rex her basket of oranges
to hold until December 3. Then “Zaza” and
• short skirts will supervene.
** * *
For what the suburban intellectual of the
gentler persuasion calls “a very deep play,”
GeorgS Marlow’s “Heart of a Hero” at Sydney
Palace just about beats all records. This amaz-
ing upheaval is by “ Lingford Carson, Esq.”
Apparently. Carson was an ambitious wight who
started out to create a new hell and a new heaven,!
but being struck dead just after completing the
lower region, Mr. Marlow put the unfinished work
on the stage. Most bellowdrama characters are
quite inhuman, but they usually suggest that they
were made in man’s image. The scoundrels of
“ The Heart” were not, and the whole caste is so
absolutely inane or senselessly devilish that the
units fail to arouse human interest. The story,
too, is. painfully stereotyped : Mark Marie, of
Linton Hall, goes to Lancashire and brings
back with him as lady housekeeper Nell
Resdale, whom he dresses as the erring
woman expects to be dressed. Unlike Cleo-
patra, however, custom does stale her charm,
and Mark falls in love with Jack 'Collision’s
sweetheart, a very ordinary girl named May
Rider. His brother, Wilfred Marie, gets struck
on the same lady. Wilfred desires his brother’s
landed estate, a certain miser’s £5OO, and a few
other trifles. He is thoroughgoing—forges his
brother’s name to a bill, incites the jealous Nell
Resdale to shoot the said brother while that
scoundrel is asking May Rider to marry him, and
robs the miser and imprisons him in his own private
dungeon, where he flogs him daily to keep him in
a proper state of humility. He gets May
Rider arrested oh a charge of murdering his
brother, and swears he will send her to the gal-
lows unless she marries him. He steals his
brother’s will and thereby keeps for his own the
property Mark had left to Jack Collison. Finally
he imprisons and murders Nell Resdale, and then
he is choked by the spanked miser in full view of
the audience. All of which is very natural—in
bellowdrama.
* * * *
The hero is Jem Resdale, who comes to
save his sister from a life of shame. By the
“SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Act One —a street in hallowed Drury Lane ;
The King’s playhouse adjacent, and a lass
Dispensing drinks and impudence for gain,
And in between times polishing each glass.
A strolling actor and a programme lad —
The latter much too quiet—hang about;
The actor makes two idle gallants mad
By plainly intimating they should shout.
Enter a hooded woman with a mask
Held ’fore her eyes. The gallants straight pursue.
Their villainous intent it is to ask
A kiss apiece. But, Lord ! they don’t know who
The woman is ! No locksmith’s daughter she !
She is the richest heiress in the place
Come out to say good-bye to Fairfax. He
Is bound for France because he’s in disgrace.
One bounder catches Lady Olive’s hand,
And is proceeding to unmask her when
Sweet Nell, the orange-seller, runs in and
Upbraids the pair of idle dandies. Then
She takes the girl in hand. But, as the pair
Go off, the spy of Jeffreys hurries in,
And one gay spark informs him swiftly who
The masked one is. The spy—a man of sin—
Looks on his master’s ward, who’s come to seek
Her banished lover ere he flies abroad,
And hang about his shoulders for a week,
While Death walks round them with an eager sword.
So Nell, with kindly foresight, guides the twain
Into a quiet and convenient kirk
While Charles comes on. With him we meet again
The two exquisites—both still out of work.
Act One concludes when from the playhouse comes
The Potentate. Nell asks her handsome friend
To show her where the King is. Muffled drums
And bared heads indicate him. That’s the end,
Except that Charles informs the mob around
That Nell henceforth will sell had fruit no more,
But in the playhouse yonder will be found,
■And that checks can be purchased at the door.
Act Two is Nell Gwynne’s house in old Pall Mall;
Thereto comes Fairfax from far France to see
His sweet Olivia. Nell says he shall, ■
And sends her serving maid right speedily
To bring the girl. As she goes out the voice
Of Charles is heard, and Nell hides Fairfax just
As he comes in. (There is no other choice.
Were Fairfax found the whole show would be bust.)
Nell soothes Charles with flirtation. Then she hears
Sounds of approaching visitors. In pain
Charles begs his Nell to hide him, for he fears
The acid wrath of Mrs. Castlernaine.
So Nell in anguish steers him from the place
Where Fairfax hides and in her own sweet den
Itight opposite conceals him. Then her Grace
Of Portsmouth, and the unemployed young men
With snarling Jeff and bitter Mrs. C.,
Come in to spend a pleasant hour or two
With bickering, swift, savage repartee,
And frank remarks re hidden Charlie, who
Hears all they say and boils behind the door
Till Lacy rushes in and tells his chief
That Fairfax has been tracked there. (Wild uproar,
And sighs and sneers of venomous relief.)
But Jeffreys makes the cardinal mistake—
He shouts “ Surrender ! ” where the King is hid !
And Charles leaps out and makes their feelings ache
With stern reproaches. Nell is quickly rid
Of the whole bitter crowd. Fairfax, alack !
Bursts from his hiding and is neatly bagged
By Jeffreys and his men, who double back.
They take him and inform him he’ll be scragged.
Scene Three—Judge Jeffreys’house. Here Roger's told :
“ At dawn to-morrow on the block you die 1 ”
At which bloodstained remark the hero bold
Bows and returns a cynical reply.
But Jeff departs, and Nell—who’s just gone out—
Steals back, dons wig and gown and works a quill
Whilst Bill—Jeff’s servant—wanders all about
And does her bidding. Poor, fat-headed Bill!
She sends Miss Olive quickly off to Court
In Jeff’s own chair, and is about to cast
The borrowed plumes away w hen, with a snort,
Jeff blusters in and staggers back aghast.
He shouts of gaol ; but Nellie laughs to scorn
His frantic threats, bids him stand back —or down —
And in his chair departs, having in paw T n
The good old Letters found within his gown.
Scene Four—the Palace. Fickle Charles the Twice
And Mrs. Castlernaine—a forward lass—
Make love ’midst tapers. (Which looks very nice,
But makes you think of strikes and want of gas.)
All’s going ill when beaming Nell appears
Amid the crowd —the Letters in her chest
And, disregarding cheerfully their sneers,
Proceeds to do her worst —or else her best.
, She busts the show completely. Charles, enraged,
Leaps up like one new-risen from a tack'
And clears his Court. Nor is his wrath assuaged
Until he has invested with the Sack
Each plotting soul. Then does he sign to Nell
To sit beside him, but she sighs (Ah me!)
And wanders homeward down the stair. Well, well 1
Perhaps it’s better than plain History !
N.S.W.
KODAK.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
D.O.M.
BENEDICTINE
The Liqueur with 400 Years’ Reputation .
machinations of the villain he is driven to the
somewhat drastic proceeding of confessing to a
murder he never committed. This sort of thing,
which is quite common in melodrama, is totally
unexpected by Wilfred, whose applecart is there-
by turned on its side. It gets right upside-down
through Wilfred’s inane habit of dropping papers
instead of keeping them in a strong room. He
drops important papers as other men drop
matches. In some respects “ The Heart of a
Hero” is not an ordinary melodrama. Real
melodrama requires that virtue shall triumph
and all end happily. In this case the
wronged girl is saved from the gallows only
to be brutally murdered ; and the real
hero of the piece saves his life but loses his father,
mother and sister inside of three hours. And he is
such a weary person that he ought to lose himself
also. Mark Marie is a self-conscious brute, and
Jack Collison is quite colorless. As a detective
Tilton is good—in spots; while for a fine whole-
hog incarnation of general w'ickednessand infernal
foolishness, Hilliard Vox, as Wilfred Marie, is
just It. Miss Nellie Ferguson does the unfor-
tunate part of Nell Resdale as well as can be
expected.
t tJt
“ The Country Girl ” will be on holiday at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) until Friday of this week,
after which date she will retire once more to the
cow-bail and resume the frayed sunbonnet of re-
pentance. On Saturday, 27th, the public is to be
allowed another whiff of “Havana,” with Bert
Gilbert as Nix, the matrimonial outlaw and bos’n
of the good ship Wasp.
** * *
A tale of 177 b, done on Spencer’s Theatre-
scope at Sydney Lyceum : An American dispatch
runner, among the waving trees, and glinting
through the distances the helmets and white
facings of the pursuing Hessians of King George.
Puffs of smoke, but the American flees on.
Through swamp, through fields, up the tree-
shaded bank—and close behind King George’s
Hessians. Into his father’s home he staggers, to
find the family, including two radiant sisters, at
tea; and then into the chimney to hide. The
Hessians search the house, and finally decide to
stay the night. Thin-faced, hollow-eyed, the
Yankee father, while they seek out their rooms,
hides his son in a hamper. The Hessian captain
playfully sends a bullet through it. Then the
night comes, and the little sister of the dead boy
is hugged and mauled by the roystering captain-
while the father rouses the neighborhood. The
sentry, beguiled by the other sister, is captured,
the house surprised. There are dead Hessians
and a burly captain begging for mercy from the
thin-faced, hollow-eyed father, who approaches
him smiling horribly, with a loaded pistol in his
hand. Then darkness. At the Glaciarium,
West’s programme includes the doings of Consul,
the ci vilised ape, known as the Missing Link ; and
a series of Manly, the beautiful. At the Bijou
there is the usual collection of pictures, grave and
gay and pleasantly instructive.
* * *
Having got the dancing Mrs. De Dio,
Sydney Tivoli has burst into a shower of adjectives
and demands that the public should peruse the
names of its brilliant artists. The public will be
able to comply without being late for the office.
Mrs. De Dio presents a turn which is a fine
advertisement for her staff of electricians; she
commences as a butterfly and she ends by being
cremated like a breakfast chop. Between the
butterfly and the cooking demonstration there is
some joyous dancing ; but the lighting effects are
a good half of the turn. The Trapnell Sisters
and Brother George, Dolly Harmer, Bertha
Stuart and Fred Curran are the other first-rank
performers. Raking the adjectives aside, there
are four —perhaps five--first-class turns now at
this theatre.
** * *
The public is again reminded that Miss
Lucille Stuart Benstead, the sweet singer from
Alice Springs, in Central Australia (her photo,
appears on this page), is to give a concert at
Sydney Town Hall on December 2. On the
solenin oath and affidavit of Clara Butt and her
husband, Kennerley Rumford, the voice, though
not yet fully trained, is well worth the price of
admission. After the show is over, Miss Lucille
hopes shortly to take the track for Berlin, and
there get her organ of sound further cultivated
MISS LUCILLE STUART BENSTEAD, the
songstress from Central Australia.
on the best German agricultural principles. The
young lady starts with at least one asset in
addition to her gift of song—she possesses a name
of her own that will look well on a show bill.
If she must change it for operatic or
concert purposes (though it is difficult to see why
she should) the writer suggests that she should
call herself Alice Spring. There will probably
be a big town at her birthplace when the transcon-
tinental railway is built, and with such a name
she would have a special lien on the place and be
able to charge 2s. 6d. extra.
“ The Lady Dandies,” an opera introduced
to Sydney early in this year of grace, broke out at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) last Saturday night, and
will spread its directoire gowns and coat-tails
before the limelight for the remaining three weeks
of the season. “ The Dandies,” though an opera
of a different narrative nature and musical color
from “ The Widow,” is not the less unlike the
frequent British musical comedy of modern
fashion. In its more farcical features it is a
■direct lineal descendant of “La Fille de
Madame Angot.” Its story deals with the
French period when Citizen Barras was
king of Baris, and everybody thereabouts
was either a conspirator or a spy, or both.
Oddly enough, there is hardly a suspicion
of moral giddiness in it. Robert, the refugee
aristocrat,, comes from the army of Napoleon
abroad to recover his unwillingly divorced wife,
and with the aid of some Dandy Ladies, each of
whom pa teller best leg through the partition in her
skirt, heaceomplisheshispurpose. Theoperaisper-
fectly proper, highly musical, richly spectacular,
and reasonably entertaining. But for the fact
that the brief third act depends mainly on the
humorous acting ability of Bantock, who has little
natural humor or histrionic art, the audience would
look back on the performance with an unjaundiced
eye. As it is, one remembers some musical num-
bers with particular gratitude, and tries to forget
the third act.
“The Lady Dandies ” brings out the best
in several members of the co. Miss Young con-
tributes a strikingly fine appearance and a bright
interpretation of her part as “La Merveilleuse,”
as well as a strong, healthy warble. Roberts is
dramatically forcible in song and action, where
force is more needed than refinement, whilst
O’Connor shapes well as a johnnie of refinement
rather than force. If he can further develop his
face without increasing the area of his nose
O’Connor should do very nicely in sentimental
characters. Gouriet, as a serio-comic police agent,
has not much to do but does it well, whilst
Fred Leslie, with a little more to do
in the same line of business, is rather
quietly droll and surprisingly reminiscent ■ of
the late George Lauri. It is not only that Leslie
paints a. portion of his countenance red. He has
also something of Lauri’s voice and manner.
Miss Dango frisks around in gauzy apparel and
sings one or two songs in the conventional
“soubrette” tone, whicli is pointed, not to say
peevish. Miss Rosina Buckmann makes her first
appearance with the co. as the divorced wife
whom Roberts is sighing for, but inasmuch as
Miss Buckmann is of the comely, buxom (or Amy
Castles) type, with round eyes and a moderately
pleasing voice, whereas the company sorely needs a
newsongstress of the ethereal type, with a mermaid
smile and an 18-inch waist, theengagenient strikes
one as being inopportune. In fact. Miss Buck-
mann i§ not brilliantly successful as a young
matron in distress, but Jier shortcomings are as
naught compared to the deficiencies of Bantock,
already spoken of. Bantock has one virtue, how-
ever,. He enunciates his words very distinctly
when reciting song verses. On Saturday night
the chorus seemed to go astray once or twice from
the winding course of melody, so the performance
will gain considerably by repetition.
#
At ■ Melbourne Royal these are the
very last nights of “The Girl Behind the
Counter.” who neglected to keep her eye on the
cash-desk. On Saturday will begin a revival of
“The Belle of Mayfair” for a few occasions.
When the Gibson Girls, incidental to that harm-
less fiction, have exhausted their blank expression
and abandoned their monumental curl, the season
of musical comedy will close.
** * *
“ The Bondman ” was revived at Mel-
bourne King’s last Saturday. In it Hall Caine
presents his hero Jason as the offspring of un-
married love, and visits on him all society’s penal-
ties for illegitimacy. Apparently in Hall’s view
no material happiness should be reserved for
Jason. He has to be an outcast, who looks
as if he is pardoned for his unpardonable
birth because of his acts of heroism and re-
nunciation. That idea naturally helps to make
“ The Bondman ” a popular drama ; but it is
easy to titter at the whole concoction. More-
over, the acting of Bland Holt’s present company
must receive less respect than it is trying to in-
vite. Max Maxwell plays Michael with just a
hint of effeminacy. Michael, however, is more a
pretty than a powerful character, so Maxwell is
held almost blameless. Miss Harrie Ireland is
more enticing as an adventuress than as the
mostly tepid Greeba; while Styan’s picture of the
gaudy Jason is a rather ragged oleograph with the
color all to Mazes. Bland Holt is excused for
his witticisms, for he will have his bit of
dissipation ; and Godfrey Cass is disliked
for his Father Ferrati, both in his drunk
and sober stages. One or two minor mummers
are lifeless ; but Charles Brown and Miss Bessie
Major deserve some kind appreciation. Brown is
pleasant and natural as Adam Fairbrother ; while
Miss Major gives an admirable suggestion of Mrs.
Fairbrother, a dame whose “ plain common-
sense ” is as hard and smooth as a billiard ball.
To-morrow night sees the end of “The Bond-
man,” however; and on Saturday “The White
Heather,” best of all the Drury Lane melodramas,
will be exploited for the last six nights of Bland-
’olt’s season. As the long-haired stage-manager
who instructs society ladies in the mysteries of
“jiggetty-jig,” Bland will be called upon for a
farewell speech.
* * #
In most cases, the money-giver in charitable
causes has the easy job—the doer of charitable
deeds the hard work. In amateur theatricals for
charity, the point of view changes. The amateur
principals glory in getting a real stage to strut
upon and an audience to suffer their per-
formance. while the chorus and the ballet have the
time of their lives being wickedly stagey, and per-
fect devils at love-making in off moments of re-
hearsal. Few charities are so appealing to a country
which hankers for people as the Foundlings’
Home and Aid for Neglected Children. In that
good cause was perpetrated “ The French Maid,”
at the Princess’s for two nights only. Miss Eily
Cullen, as Suzette, was perky. The Maid fs
meant to be perky ; but in all other respects, save
her pair of very pretty feet, her qualifications for
the leading part in a musical comedy were in-
visible. And even her perkiness was painfully
obtrusive. Miss Kitty Trench, as Dorothy
bore a pleasing resemblance to Miss
Thorn, and sang well enough when her
voice was not strangled by nervousness- or
struggling towards a high note. The Admiral
Hawser of George Chant explained in the
many songs which came foggily from the back of
his throat that his outlook on life was pessimistic,
and that he regarded Pleasure as the Devil.
Nevertheless, he tried his best to look like a bene-
volent city councillor in disguise. A round-shoul-
dered lieutenant (Mr. Milo Da vine ; itsoundslike
a tobacco limerick) proved to be a capable baritone
as compared with his companions in crime, whilst
William Ottey’s waiter was a conscientious copy
of Cromwell at the Royal. But, judged as a
whole, the performance was only another re-
minder of the fact that the moving spirit in ama-
teur actors is self-assurance, as a rule. These
enthusiastic aspirants for stage honors had no
talent for the stage, and the orchestra that led
into action was qualified only to play dirges over
their graves. The dancing had meritorious
features. Miss Siegenberg glode quite gracefully
through one dance, and put some spirit into the
Spanish other whirl; and the Bright Sisters got
in good work with their early French frocking and
dainty kicks.
** * *
Harold Elvins, the well-known Melbourne
pianist, is going to Europe, and will play farewell
to his local admirers at the Masonic Hall on
Thursday, December 9.
** * *
“ 0.K.” speaks a piece :
The frauds of “ hypnotic ” showmen have been brought
into animated discussion again by the fact, cabled from
England recently, that a “ mesmerist’s subject ” died in
his chair on the stage during a performance. The show-
man had apparently put this person “ under control ” as
usual, but when he presently snapped his fingers and said
“ You’re all right, sir,” the “ sleeping ” figure was found
to be dead. Whereupon the professional “hypnotist”
was arrested for manslaughter. His defence, as a matter
of course, will be a full revelation of all the tricks of the
trade in general and a frank statement of the circum-
stances of this particular Case. Meanwhile a Melbourne
citizen, writing to the local Herald, makes the following
offhand statement
“ All stage hypnotism, catalepsy, etc., is simply fraud,
the performer and his subjects imposing on a credulous
public. The subject is simply a trained dummy, and goes
through his part night after night, and the performer is
no more guilty of manslaughter than would be any one of
two acrobats who accidentally killled the other during
their performance. There was a complete exposure of
this arrant humbug in the Herald some years ago, when
Professor Kennedy’s dummies, who had quarrelled with
him, gave the principal feats of Kennedy’s show On their
own to a committee at the Herald office.”
Thus the uninitiated citizen in the wisdom of his own
conceit. His actual knowledge of the fraud in question is
confined to the fact that the late Kennedy, like all other
stage “ hypnotists,” had a number of paid accomplices
who rehearsed their performances with him, and were
paid salaries according to their ability to make ridiculous
objects of themselves when called upon to give their re-
spective turns. The statement that “these dummies
gave the principal feats of Kennedy’s show ‘ on their
own ’ at the Herald office ” is true oniy in the letter, not
in the spirit of the words. As a matter of fact, one or two
attempts were made by other showmen to “ work ” the
subjects whom Kennedy left behind him in Australia
when he returned to America or England. He exploited
this country two or three times, returning to Europe
between his tours, and each time there was an attempt
to run a show with the human material that the ginger-
headed Yank had handled so profitably. The attempts
were failures. With any other “Professor” in Kennedy’s
place the fraud was at once perceived by the audience.
Moreover, the wretched wasters who acted as subjects
were not thoroughly amenable to the discipline of
Kennedy’s would-be successor. They wouldn’t always
meekly swallow horrible draughts of kerosene and
castor oil, etc., etc., or eat decomposed tallow, or do,
some other of the wildly lunatic things they had-done for
Kennedy. As for such as the “ star” subject Tommy, a
lame, sturdy fellow who leapt and bounded about the
stage in an extraordinary epileptic manner, he was an
'imported person who had travelled in Europe with many
professional “ mesmerists ” and been examined by many
doctors, none of whom could account for his symptoms
any more than his employers could.
The one thing certain about him and other subjects
whom Kennedy gathered as he went along, and dropped
when he had done with them, was that they could be
thrown into a more or less abnormal condition
by the callous humbug who ran the conspiracy.
When he first arrived in Australia and started opera-
tions in Melbourne, Kennedy had at least one
imported employee— not Tommy, that time. For the
rest they were fellows he got in answer to advertise-
ments. And they had to consent to be mesmerised,
before he engaged them. Nor did he engage them until
he had proved their usefulness as crude comic-songsters,
acrobats or humorists. Under Kennedy’s private instruc-
tion they reduced themselves to a mesmeric condition by
staring at a disc or what not, and in.that state they were
put through their prearranged performances by the
showman. Having subjected them to many rehearsals
whilst they were in this “ consciously abnormal ” plight,
so to speak, they were qualified to do exactly the
same things in public at the showman’s bidding. He
used to profess to put them to sleep with
his fat paws, and they thought they were
merely pretending to “go off” whilst awaiting his
summons to come forward and perform. But, in a
measure, they did actually “go off.” Kennedy had a
certain control over them. They may have supposed
themselves to be masters of their will, because they were
willingly assisting in a fraud by pretending to be casual
volunteers who had responded to Kennedy’s invitation to
the audience. Nevertheless they were swayed by the
will of Kennedy—in the days when Kennedy was a virile
animal, putting all his personal force into the job.
During his final visit to Australia the fat showman
ceased to exercise any force to speak of. Disease of the
heart, from which he eventually died, took all the old
devil out of him, and his performances were not much more
convincing than those of the amateurs who fooled with
his discarded subjects. But it is misleading to state, as
the Melbourne Herald wiseacre states, that neither
Kennedy, nor any other “ professor,” could be more
blamable for the death of a conspiring subject than
would be an acrobat whose mate met with a fatal acci-
dent in their joint performance. If the English
“mesmerist” person was operating in his ordinary way of
business upon a nervous subject whose heart was weak,
he will probably 7 be treated as a contributing cause of
the man’s death. Indeed, if the deceased was one of the
kerosene-swallowing subjects the case admits of no dis-
pute. Kennedy, of yore, used to treat those cases with
barbarous restoratives. The fellows who ate and drank
the muck he gave them were sufficiently hypnotised to
keep the dose on their stomachs until the show was
ended. Kennedy then mixed an emetic for them—salt
and water, as a rule—and they vomited as much of the
rubbish as had not already soaked into their innards.
** * *
A new “turn” at the Opera House is
Hassan, the Indian magician, late of Sydney.
The dusky wizard in question lias a tricky pair of
hands, and performs some small miracles in a
neat and casual manner ; but he lacks the sense of
showmanship which distinguished Chung Ling
Soo, the Scotchman. The most amazing thing
Hassan ever did, seemingly, was to get himself
imported to Australia. Piper, the banjo juggler,
and many other people of some importance, will
repeat themselves until further notice. Among
the performers who are quitting the Opera House
this week the Seals will be chiefly missed, on
account of their strange intelligence and the
pungent smell of their fish diet.
“Jack and Jill ” is about at the end of its
long career. On leaving Adelaide .Royal, the co.
farewelled Stella Gastelle, and said she was a jollv
good fellow. The house is now occupied by “ The
Man from Outback,” which is neai'ly as funny as
the pantomime. The Pierrots on the beaches
have contrived complete novelty by the simple
expedient of changing places, the Glenelg team
moving to the Semaphore, and rice versa. But,
on the whole, it has not been the right weather
for outdoor shows.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Edwin Geaeh, who 'is running “ The Englishman’s ,
Home” through Maoriland, has taken over Wellington’s
best-known amateur, Miss Nancy Perry, to play leading
parts. Leo de Chateau, formerly mumming'in Australia,
runs a School of Acting nowanights in the windy city,
and Miss Perry used that step-ladder to climb into Geach’s .
“ Home.”
(Continued on page 28.)
A VISIT FROM THE ZOO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Parliamentary visit to the Zoological Gardens has
been postponed. —News item.
The elephant said gloomily, “ What are we coming to?
A plague of coves in Parliament is threatening the Zoo !
For years we’ve been respectable—I think we’re falling
low ,
When disrespected Fusionists invade our decent show !
Why should these noisy animals come'here to look at me?
I think we’re all superior to Wilks and Smith, M.P. !
I vote that we investigate. Let’s plainly see who’s
who ”
The tiger roared: “ I advocate a visit from the Zoo! ”
“ I think your scheme is excellent,” the Polar bear replied ;
“ We’re all agreed—unanimous,” the lion promptly cried ;
“ Let’s go and look at Parliament before it looks at us”
“ That’s right 1 ” observed the apteryx and solemn
platypus.
The leopard yawned, and lazily he said: “ I think we’ll
go.
My dear,” he purred to Mrs. L., “ let’s see this talking
show! ”
“ I’ll lead the way,” said cheerfully the cynic kangaroo.
“ Line up, you blokes—we’re starting on a visit from the
Zoo ! ’’
And so the gloomy elephant lined up beside the bear ;
And all the apes and monkey folk likewise assembled
there !
The tall giraffe disdainfully stepped out beside the gnu—
The lynx lamenting tearfully, “He’ll spoil the blessed
view ! ’’
“ Shut up ! ” replied the antelope. “ I’m sure you’ll see
it all;
It ain’t his fault he’s angular and very lean and tall ! ”
“Keep quiet, you blatherskites!” exclaimed the angry
kangaroo,
Or else the cops will spiflieate this visit from the Zoo ! ”
’Twas thus the folks zoological stepped softly side by side,
Until the doors of Parliament they saw before them wide !
The bobby at the orifice fell down and took a fit.
The elephant said gloomily, “ He isn’t hurt a bit.
We’re here, young man, as visitors, to see the talking-
show ;
We’re peaceful and respectable—direct us where to go ! ’’
“Amen! Just stir and shift yourself,” observed the
kangaroo ;
“ This way,” the pale attendant said, “ Er—Persons from
the Zoo ! ”
Within the House a hurricane of jaw was raging loud ;
So, unobserved, the visitors sat down—a peaceful crowd !
The elephant, astonished, said, “ There is a pal of mine !”
“Shut up,” the ’roo said, solemnly; “that’s only old
Bill Lyne ! ”
“ What is that substance circular?” the tiger whispered
low ;
“That’s Reid,” replied the platypus ; “I know him—old
Yes-No !”
“Ah, yes,” the lynx said, plaintively, “he had a Tiger,
too.”
“That Tiger’s burst,” the leopard said; “he’s left this
blooming Zoo! ”
The elephant said, wearily: “Who’s that who snarls so
loud ?”
“It’s Joseph Cook,” replied the ’roo; “he runs the
Fusion crowd ! ”
“And who’s the noble orator who talks so large and
fine?”
“ That’s Kelly,” said the kangaroo, “ the man without a
spine ! ”
“Gee-whiz !” exclaimed the blue-tailed ape, “a miracle
is he;
I guess it’s out along with us that fellow ought to bed”
“Remember! We’re respectable,” protested then the
gnu ;
“ We want no motors raising dust around our decent
Zoo.”
“ There’s something here,” the tiger said, “ that rather
puzzles me ;
It’s like a monstrous icicle that looms portentously,”
“ That’s Iceberg Irvine, don’t you know ? ” the karigaroo
replied ;
“ Observe that sad catastrophe upon the other side !
’Tis Mister Johnson—fearsomely his tongue is prone to
wag;
A most perfervid waver of the blessed Hempire flag ! ”
“ I’ve heard of him,” the ti_;er said. “ Now, blimey, tell
us who
Has captured all these quadrupeds that rage within this
Zoo ? ”
The elephant said gloomily, “ I think we’ve had enough :
Our Zoo contains no quadrupeds with hides one half a-
tough ”;
“The noise they make is horrible,” the lion sadly
moaned;
The Polar bear said, dismally, “I vote they be dis-
owned ;
We cannot have such animals out there disturbing us.”
“However do they catch such things?” inquired the
platypus.
“ They snare them with the ballot box,” replied the
kangaroo.
“Look out!” exclaimed the pelican, “let’s leave this
turbid Zoo ! ”
The elephant rose hastily and hustled for the dbor;
For lo ! the anguished Hansard man had fainted on the
floor!
“ He’s overworked,” the tiger said. “ Hi ! let’s get out
of this;
I do not like these biped folk who howl and jump and
hiss!”
“The fat man makes me weary,” so the humped-up
camel cried ;
And then the thoughtful visitors arose and cleared
outside !
“ What is your verdict, gentlemen ? ” inquired the
kangaroo.
“Get home,” all hands said fearfully— “get home atul
lock the Zoo ! ”
VICTORIA.
ORANT HERVEY.


EDUCATION BY POST.
-The Proprietors
of Store and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in noway connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Onl.v’Address—Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mqst centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Mr. W. J. Fuller, J.P., storekeeper,
Rendelsham, S.A., writes: —“Some little time
ago I was called in to see a neighbor who was
suffering from severe cramps, and who really
thought he was past help. I took a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy with me, and gave him three doses,
according to directions, and in a few hours he had
quite recovered. I have frequently used it in my
own family, and am so well satisfied as to its
merits that I make a point of selling it to my
customers on a positive guarantee.”*
This year has been an eventful one in the
fields of discovery. But have YOU discovered
anything? It not, buy a current Lone Hand
and you will discover that it is a new Lone
Hand compared with past issues. And you will
discover that this all Australian magazine
exceeds in interest to Australians—because it is
built solely to interest Australians—any of the
imported periodicals.*
XMAS GIFTS!
A CAMERA
would be a Novel and Useful
Gift. It will give more refined
and educative amusement than any other £ift.
FOR THE YOUNG it stimulates an interest to learn.
FOR ADULTS it is a splendid pastime.
FOR THOSE ADVANCED IN YEARS it affords lijrht and pleasant amusement.
The “Victor” No. 1
j-plate Magazine
Camera. Price,
complete, 30/-
Postage, N.5.W..,
1/3 ; Inter-State,
2/2.
The Postcard
“ Ensign ” 000, a
delightful Folding
Camera. Price
complete, £4.
Postage, N.S. VV.,
1/3 ; Inter-State,
2/2.
The “ Stereo Car-
bine,” for Stereo
or Postcard Pic-
tures. Price com-
plete, £9/10/-
Postag-e, N.S.W.,
1/3 ; Inter-State,
2/2. '
The Baby “Al
Vista,” a Panorama
Camera, for
Coastal or Pano-
ramic Views. 17/6.
Postage, N.S.W.,
1/3; Inter-State,
2/2.
We have a magnificent stock of Cameras from World-famous Makers, from
5/- to £5O. We are only too pleased to reply to any inquiry.
Let us advise you to
Prepare for XMAS ! and select your Gifts NOW.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Premier Camera and Photo.
Stock Importers & Manufacturers,
SYDNEY— MELBOURNE— BRISBANE-
-386 George Street, near G.P.O. 266 Collins Street. 93 to 95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—
Cawler Place.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
BREAKING NEW GROUND.
PERCY: “I had. a new experience to-day, old
chappie."
CLARENCE: “ Weally, deah boy?”
P ERCY: “ Yes. I wore a wed tie for the first
time.”
“R. Mac ” : Coalmine-owners (vide.
Sydney Herald and Daily Telegraph) are cut
to the heart with sorrow for the sufferings which
must be endured by the helpless wives and
children of the foolish strikers. John Brown, of
the firms of J. and A. Brown and J. and W.
Brown, colliery owner, ship and tugboat owner,
railway owner, private township owner, racehorse
owner and millionaire, wears a deeper gash than
most —his heart just bleeds for the down-trodden
ones. Therefore, fearful lest the Minmi miners
should squander their scanty savings in pleasure
trips to Newcastle Beach, and thus deprive
the poor women and children of a crust, he put
the temptation beyond their reach by discon-
tinuing the Hexham-Minmi train service. Also,
fearful that in their folly they would rush out and
waste their substance-on grand pianos and race-
horses, John of the Bleeding Heart ordained that
no more goods should be carried to Minmi over
his line. An ordinary man would consider that
John Brown was playing his first trump card in
the starvation-into-submission game by thus cut-
ting off supplies. But, no ! Two hundred and
seventy-six times—No-! It is all for their good-
all to make things easier for the helpless wives
and children of the foolish strikers. Thank
Heaven, then, that good John Brown owns the
line, and not a callous Government.
Legal Luminary writes :
A recent decision under the N.S.IV. Liquor Act again
shows the feverish anxiety of the Government to incur
Costs. At Forbes, last August, three men entered the
bar of a local pub and asked for heds. One at least was
dead drunk, and the publican refused. Some time was
spent in arguing with the men in an attempt to get them
quietly away, and the police turned up during the
argument. The Law fined the drunk for being drunk,
and fined the publican for allowing or permitting
the said drunk to be on his licensed premises.
Of course, the publican hadn’t “permitted” this drunk
to be on his premises any more than a householder might
permit a burglar to be in his drawing-room at 2 a.m.;
the drunk was just there. (There is room here for a
digression on a new method of putting down burglary
by fining the man whose house is broken into for per-
mitting an undesirable character— i.e., Bill Sikes—to
dwell in his residence.) According to the Forbes
reading of the law, a publican must be amazingly swift.
Should a sick club man collapse in the vestibule of the
Australia, it would be the duty of the manager, if he had
any suspicion that the man might be tipsy, to throw him
into Castlereagh-street without waiting to investigate his
case, for if the police arrived while the man was being
diagnosed the proprietary might forfeit one of the three
lives allowed it under the Act. If the ejected man really
had apoplexy instead of drink, that would merely be his
misfortune. The Forbes publican thought this reading
of the law so absurd that he appealed to a higher court,
and the conviction was quashed with scorn and oppro-
brium—and Costs. N.S.W. seems to be always paying
Costs these days.
* * * *
Sydney on Saturday saw another gigantic
blaze in a timber yard, when Saxton and Birins’
huge pile of sticks caught tire, and was destroyed
in a few hours. Dozens of poor families in the
vicinity were rendered homeless, all their belong-
ings being destroyed. Babies and old people were
rescued with difficulty, and there were many
narrow escapes. The law allows these huge aggre-
gations of highly inflammable woods like Oregon
and pine to remain seasoning for months in the
most crowded centres ; yet the insurance cos. rate
timber yards with theatres as the most dangerous
of risks. And, in this case, some one with a keen
sense of the spectacular, had stored right up
against the timber yard a kerosene bond and a
quantity of calcium carbide. The firemen
were in this position. If the water which
they were pouring on the kerosene reached the
carbide there would be a gigantic ex-
plosion, while the odds were 10 to 1 that
the kerosene would blow up, anyhow. The loss
was tremendous, but it is difficult to see how
things of the sort can be avoided under present
conditions. The Congested Population crowd in-
sists that N.S.W. must have only one port for
oversea shipping; so the timber, kerosene, fire-
works, calcium, gunpowder, etc., must all be
there. Moreover, they must be close together, for
space is limited. And then things happen.
• * * *
“ Hassan ” sends a paragraph reeking of
iodoform and other bad smells :
The Melbourne Hospital Committee is wrestling with a
proposal recently thrown at it by the doctors composing
its honorary staff and the Melbourne University. The
idea underlying the proposal is that the Melbourne Hos-
pital is'primarily a place to teach young doctors how to
doc, and to this view the Committee very naturally
objects. The doctors have for years attempted to run
the hospital in the interests of the honoraries. They
have pooled all the fees received from the clinical
students, and added thereto sufficient to bring the pool
up to £l5OO a year. This money is “donated” to the
hospital by dummies, who thus have a vote in the
election of the doctors. The consequence is that the
doctors have loaded the ballot so scientifically with these
dummies, who are usually the only contributors who
trouble tp vote, that they have practically a lien on the
honorary positions so long as the present arrangement
lasts. Why do they covet an honorary position so ? First
of all, there is the prestige. Secondly, the pupils whom
they have trained go awa.v into the little country towns,
and when faced with a difficult job write down and “ con-
sult’’their old teachers. This means a fee for the old
teachers. It has been computed that if the Hospital
Committee put up the honorary positions to auction
they would be bid for up to about £4OO a year.
Now, however, an attempt is being made by the doctors
to do by constitutional means what so far they have done
by their £l5OO and their dummies. Election of honora-
ries, they say, should be in the hands of an Electoral
College, consisting of members of the staff itself, of the
University Council, of the Faculty of Medicine in the
University, and, last and least, of the Melbourne Hos-
pital Committee. The Committee naturally asks what
the University has got to do with it. The doctors reply
that the University must get the hospital teaching of its
students-put on a sound basis. The Hospital Committee
then naturally asks why the honorary staff doesn’t see to
that, as it is purely the staff’s business, for which the
staff collects the fees. The staff replies that it is too
busy. Meanwhile the Committee holds its opinion that
the first business of a public hospital is the relief of the
sick and wounded, and it turns a cold eye upon the
scheme to convert the place into a huge teaching school
in which sucking doctors will serve their apprenticeship.
If the doctors carry their scheme, this writer will be
very much surprised.
A SHOWY COSTUME.
HE: “Mill y is only here to show her costume .”
SHE: “ Wrong. The costume is only here to show Milly."
A Victorian up-country church, the other
day, according to the local print, “presented a
pleasant appearance, being the scene of a pretty
wedding.” Then, plunging into millinery and
other details, the local print proceeded to explain
that the bride was the third eldest daughter of
Mr. T. Ah Chow, while the bridegroom was a
party of the name of Johnson. Mr. T. Ah Chow,
it seems, didn’t perform the giving-away cere-
mony, which was handed over to some other mem-
ber of the great Ah Chow family ; and two young-
sters—Europeans, apparently, judging by their
names—held up the Ah Chow lady’s train. And the
awful country rag-alleges that the Congregational
Church in which this mingling of white and
yellow occurred “presented a pleasant appear-
ance.” Yet the chances are that the parson who
performed the ceremony would drive a mongrel
dog away from his backyard with scorn and old
boots; but, apparently he gives the glad hand at
his church door to a union of an Ah Chow lady
with a presumably-white party of the name,of
Johnson. Dog race-purity counts ; apparently
human race-purity doesn’t.
A NOCTURNE.
R OMEO: “ What er yer hollerin’ for, Juliet[?] I
never squeezed yer! ”
JULIET: “I know; but yer standing on my
corns !”
It isn’t healthy to be the bottom dog. In
the Ma State’s public service there are dozens of
top dogs who get quarters, etc., thrown in. The
argument in their case is that, as they may be
wanted promptly, they must live on the premises
whether they want to or not, wherefore the
Government should pay them for living on the
spot instead of charging them anything. So the
Government compromises with the top dogs by
supplying quarters and light for nothing. But that
argument is sunk out of sight when the bottom
dog’s kennel comes up for consideration. The
bottom dog has to live on the premises, too; but
as it obviously doesn’t matter where the bottom
dog hangs out, he has to pay rent for his camp.
So while, for instance, the Medical Superintendent
of, say, the Waterfall Consumptives’ Hospital
gets quarters, fuel and light thrown in, on the
ground that he may be called up at two in the
morning and ought not to be expected to put up
with that for a bare £5OO a year, the nurses,
who get £9O a year, are docked £25 each for
their quarters. A person who only gets £9O a year
is naturally not entitled to any special considera-
tion even if she is called up at two in the
morning. Still, things might be worse.
The nurses at the leper lazaret at the Coast
Ip? Hospital get as much as £45 a year; and
they might have something knocked off fo’-
their cheerful quarters. But so far a prodigal
Government has allowed them to retain the
whole colossal £45 and spend it on riotous
living in bonnet shops and on chiffon drunks
of one kind and another.
* * * *
The surf-bathing sharks have made their
appearance early this summer, and the proud,
brown man who shoots the breakers on the
Sydney beaches need never be oppressed with the
feeling that his beautiful skin is not being
admired. The languishing eye of an 11-foot grey
nurse is probably fixed on him all the time. So
far, the 1909-10 surfing sharks haven’t been un-
pleasant or snapped at anyone. Down at Bondi
recently three of them put in the whole day quite
harmlessly; and one of them at least could have
dined off a girl. They only showed that they
possessed appetites when some fishermen drew
a net through the surf; then the sportive three
followed and chased the fish that tried to escape
by jumping the corks. Two of them raced after
the same fish and wrangled over it between the
first line of breakers and the beach in about three
feet of water. The morning paper says that by
coming inside the first surf-line the sharks violated
a well-known rule; which remark recalls a hal-
lo*wed story. The bulldog was barking loudly.
Samuel urged Bill to go first, saying, “Bill, don’t
you know the rule that a barking dog won’t
bite?” “ That’s all right,” said Bill, ‘‘you know
the rule and I know the rule; hut does the
blessed dog know the rule? ” The Bondi sharks,
though friendly, are evidently ignorant brutes.
A book on beach etiquette should be floated out
to them.
THE TRUST OF THE U.S.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Coinage Committee of the United States House of
Representatives lias unanimously decided to restore to
American coins the motto, “In God We Trust.”— ltem of
recent news.
In God VVe Trust.
The murdered scoundrel’s murderer’s free:
For wealth discovers lunacy—
And yet, for ever sing- we must—
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust.
America is Holy Soil,
And consecrate with Standard Oil;
Yet make the pirate’s pile we must;
It is Our Trust.
In God VVe Trust.
Though Rockefeller's withered fist
Clutches the Bible Methodist—
We must forget his money lust.
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust,
Though Pittsburg strikers shoot and kill,
Wait till we see Carnegie’s will—
tie must leave libraries or bust—
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust,
But hold your nose when conning freights,
Or you will smell the dead rebates !
Secret Commissions ! Private Dust 1
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust,
For read our cryptic literature—
Our dialectic stories pure—
Our yellow press of blood and lust!
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust,
While children starve in New York fogs,
Banquets we give to bloated dogs
And pet cats of the Upper Crust!
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust.
The Millionaire of pork avoids
His canned cadaveric alkaloids :
Chicago’s poor all rot and rust !
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust.
The callous quacks do advertise.
And leach life from the sick with lies ;
Suffer the murd’rous frauds we must.
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust.
Our laborers at Homestead strike,
And argue calmly with a pike :
Wage-lords debate with bayonet-thrust—
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust
Leaving the work on Him we name—
Not cleansing us of our own shame—
Time when the land is clean and just
In God We Trust.
In God We Trust,
Simply because we don’t detect
His whereabouts ; and can’t collect!
Think not we are insanely rash—
In God We Trust! All others, cash !
In God We Trust!
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


How to get Rich.
Take a quantity of silica costing one-
fourth the price of oil; mix it with oil,
and sell the compound to the public at
the price of pure oil. It is such a com-
pound the public get when they buy
common soaps. In Sunlight Soap the
public buy a pure and well-made soap.
Sunlight Soap reduces expense by pro-
longing the life of the articles washed with
it, which is much more profitable to the
piibl : c than common soaps, which soon re-
duce the linen to holes.
Wet Feet
Often result in a heavy cold, neglect of which
means pneumonia or consumption. A positive
preventive of these ills is Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs and Colds. Small dose.
Pleasant to take. Every bottle guaranteed.
Price Is. 6d.and 3s.*
8i.0% iow
TIME and tide wait for no
man, so when you’re in a
hurry always use CHERRY
BLOSSOM POLISH for your
boots. It’s very, very quick at
producing a brilliant shine and is
economical into the bargain. It
goes further than most polishes,
and you get more for your money,
too. Ask your dealer for a 3d.
or 6d. tin—Black or Tan. Re-
member the name— CHERRY
BLOSSOM.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
SHORT TRUNKS for Day Wear
We have a growing demand for our Short Summer Trunks.
They fit in exactly with the requirements of our climate.'
Being made of Calico and Cellular materials, they are
thoroughly sweat-absorbent and doubly as cool as wool or
woollen mixtures. They are a convenient length—reaching
down to the knees, and allow a free circulation of air at all
times. We recommend them as cleanly and healthful.
In Calico, 3s. 9d; Cellular, ss. 9d.
Posted 6d. extra (two will go for 6d.)
Catalogue of Summer Styles in Men’s Wear posted on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M
“Adelaide”: I remarked in The Bulletin
once, on the occasion of an untidy murder, that
no profession requires so much training as that of
a manslayer, yet none is embarked on so much at
haphazard—always excepting the profession of
maternity. But now the School for Mothers is
here. The idea is to give the most desirable of all
immigrants a chance, and it is hoped to reduce the
waste of him to something like a mere 5 per cent.
The S. Australian branch has a lady doctor as
secretary, and the committee is chiefly made up
of three other spinsters and a childless married
lady.
* # •* *
A case lately discussed in the Vic. Full
Court throws a pleasing light on municipal
powers: Not long ago Northcote (Melb.) had
only one cricket and football ground, solely con-
trolled by the local council. Later on a local
publican gave the village another ground within
a reasonable whiff of his beer emporium. Mr.
Public-house registered his ground according to
law, whereupon the hoofballers and sundries, who
used to wrestle on the municipal ground, seceded
in force to the publican’s area. The local council
became annoyed, and, when the beer merchant
applied for re-registration it refused his request
with a howl of rage. He apparently appealed to
the Full Court against the decision, but the Court
held that the council could use its discretion in
the matter. It was a comforting decision. Too
many sports grounds are already a great deal too
near to too many public-houses, and the barracker
is full of enough things (including language)
without adding beer to the collection.
THE PRUDENT HELPMATE.
SHE: “ John , dear , we must begin to economise.”
HE: “ Right, my love; when shall ice begin?”
SHE: “Just as soon as Vve got my summer
clothes."
The just-published record of Sydney’s
• i , , • • c . ,
vital statistics for October shows, as usual, that it
is the working man and his wife who keep up the
birthrate, and that it is the affluent city magnate
i i .-. j r "tt
and his dame who let it drop. In the Hurstville
gioup of suburbs the little Australian arrived at
the rate of 264 to every 100,000 population ; round
Newtown the figure was 242 ; and at the other end
of the scale, the Woollahra and Vaucluse group,
where “Socialism” is abhorred and the alleged
decline of the birthrate is regarded as one of the
evil consequences of trades unionism, the figure
was a miserable 164.
IN HIGH CIRCLES.
HER: So the mining speculator has retrieved his position by marrying the heiress!”
HIM: “ Yes; and where do they honeymoon ? ”
HER: “ Ok, they intend aeroplaning to one of his castles in the air.”
“ Harrison O.” : I see that at Geelong, on
a recent Lord’s Day, Parson Worrall removed a
few hard-boiled statistics from his chest. He
stated that in Victoria the annual consumption of
intoxicating nourishment worked out at four
buckets per man per annum, and that on the price
of four bucketfuls a good saver could rescue the
souls of goodness knows how many heathens.
This is a common variety of logic, but the
argument applied by Worrall to the sinner’s
beer may be applied with equal force to
Worrall’s tea. Worrall drinks two cups
every meal, which makes 2190 cups per
annum. Allow for 23 extra cups at bun-
fights, Sabbath-school picnics and similar
occasions when he is endeavoring to live up
to his reputation as a Very Particular Devil
of a Fellow, and you get a total annual
consumption of 2213 cups. At Id. per cup
the cost would be £9 4s. sd. For this insig-
nificant sum a large number of shirts could
be purchased for the natives of Fiji. I
have been told by Reliable Authority (old
friend of Worrall’s, Reliable Authority)
that, owing to the Jack of Merry Widow
hats and other raiment, Fijian women
annually perish from exposure to the weather.
The cost of their burial is £2 9s. d. ; and
their relatives spend £1 15s. on “In Me-
moriam” notices. So, if Worrall looks
into things, he will find the corpses of 2\
Fjjian women lying on his front doorstep
with nothing covering their dusky naked-
ness. And he will also find that morally
he owes the Government of Fiji £2 9s.
and the relatives of the deceased £1 155.;
so he had better write out cheques for these
amounts, adding in each case Is. 6d. for ex-
change.
Another of lawyer Wade’s laws has been
exposing itself in public. It happened that a
man, described as “of blameless character,” fell
int o financial trouble, and got behind with his
board-money at a N.S.W. country pub. He was
asked to pay, and couldn’t. Then he was pro-
ceeded against for being a rogue and a vagabond.
There wasn’t a man in the town who would have
said this pwticular citizen was anything of the
sort, out w acie Hind vv&cle s Jl ctrli£iii«eiit bad
settled the matter beforehand :
If any person supplied with meals or accommodation
at licensed premises . . . refuses to pay a reasonable sum
for such meals or accommodation, he shall be deemed a
rogue and a vagabond.
And being a rogue and a vagabond, he is liable to
six months’ gaol—plain gaol. No option of a fine
is even hinted at. Parliament probably never
intended to give Bung the power to collect his
debts by threatening six months’ gaol for non-
but strange things happen when a
Deform Government sets out to oblige Stiggins—
and obliges Bung instead.
S. Aus. is adopting the Chinese roast-pig
method with its foxes ; if you can spare a house
to burn down each time you want pork, you make
sure of having it thoroughly roasted. At Mount
Gambler a family of foxes had been living on
rabbits and sparing the lambs ; but they suddenly
altered their diet and bit the heads off about 30
turkeys, and then they had to go. Their home
was in a straw-stack; so the burrows were
blocked, the stack was fired, and 25 foxes sizzled
in one gigantic roast.
* * * •
Maoriland’s Cold Tea brigade will have to
wrestle with a lot of other things even after it has
got its heel on the neck of the accursed beer
bottle. Ashburton is Cold Tea ;no pub sign
hangs out in all that district. But the other
day a coroner’s jury there had to consider
the corpse of a man whose last dose of
methylated spirits had unfortunately caught
fire. The verdict was watered down to
“death from exhaustion following deli-
rium,” in order to avoid giving away the
show. Some remarkably weird stuff is
purveyed also in the extensive King
Country. The curse is forbidden there,
except in a small portion to which licenses
were recently granted. These licenses were,
however, got on a legal point, which will
shortly have the bottom knocked from it;
and when that happens the whole King
Country will go back to cold water plus tur-
pentine, methylated spirit, fusel oil, pain-
killer and an awful decoction of sauce and
tobacco juice. But Cold Tea will claim a vic-
tory, just as it does at Ashburton, the late
habitation of the grilled methylated-spirits-
drinker.
Last week, N.S. W. Mines Minister Wood
had an outbreak of candor. He was denouncing
the idea of a State coal mine as a combination of
imbecility and impossibility, and he stated that
the prices paid for coal by the N.S.W. Depart-
ments, including the railways, were quite satisfac-
tory. The railways pay 11s. per ton for fuel
which costs only 4s. per ton to hew; and in a
State mine the Government would get its coal for
what it actually cost to hew it and the price of the
haulage. So, presumably, on the 11s. basis the
Government is paying at least 36 per cent, more
than it would if it had its own mines. And Mr.
Wood’s feeling of wild satisfaction in this matter
almost amounts to a disease.
The Old Soldier talks in a general way :
The Bulletin (4/11/’O9) reminisces about a certain rum-
mutiny that once happened in Sydney. The story is
interesting' as an illustration of the erratic ways of the
British War Office in dealing with its soldiers. In the
IBth century the British soldier was allowed table beer
every day with his meals when on home service, and rum
when abroad. On account of the trouble it gave the
Commissariat, the allowance was discontinued at different
times on different stations, and a penny a day was added
to the soldier’spa3 T . The British War Office has never given
so much attention to the feeding of its soldiers as foreign
Governments, with what the learned Dr. Ward calls
“conscripts” to take care of. The British soldier has
always been supposed to be a highly-paid volunteer, and
has consequently been provided with a combined shop
and pub in barracks where he could get his beer, tobacco
and any extra food his soul lusted after, not to speak of
blacking, pipeclay, etc., to clean his accoutrements. The
alleged “ conscript ” gets his liquor and tobacco as part
of his ration, as well as his shirts and socks, for which
the British soldier has to go under stoppages. These
stoppages leave the latter quite as badly off for money as
any conscript. It was a stroke of genius that prompted
the W.O. to put the canteens in Britain under regimental
committees, and use them, as someone lately said, to
provide magazines and newspapers for the troops, thus
relieving the taxpayerfrom the necessity fordoingit. Most
of the profit is made out of beer and tobacco, so that the
more a regiment drinks and smokes the more newspapers
and magazines it has to read. That is the theory, whatever
it amounts to in practice ; and, perhaps,in along-service
volunteer army, which in time of peace leads a compara-
tively easy life in barracks and has a chance to get out
of training and put on flesh, it is of little consequence.
There is no great harm in taking the men who serve in
the canteen from their regular drill and regimental duty.
They are already dismissed drill, and it is a good, com-
fortable billet for old soldiers who are no longer smart
and active enough to look well on parade. The conscript,
who has in two years to learn all the drill there is to
learn and then be passed into the reserve, must be care-
fully fed and looked after if he is to stand the strain.
Even the smart under-officer who puts him through his
drill is not kept in his regiment in France or Germany
after he has completed 12 years’ service, or in Austria
after 15. In Australia the canteen has been turned into
a sort of co-operative store where soldiers and their
families can supply most of their wants ; and now the
question of the supply of liquor has been raised. But a
much more serious question is whether soldiers actually
serving should be taken from their proper business of
soldiering and set to keep a shop. As a principle, it
ought to be laid down that every person borne on the
strength of the forces ought to be ready and fit at any
moment to turn out and take his place in the ranks. The
canteen-keeper could not be asked to do that for obvious
reasons, therefore canteen-keeping is not an ordinary
part of a soldier’s duty.
» » » *
A sad thing has happened to the
Gippsland coal companies. Those companies
are really only kept going by the favor of
the Railway Department, their private cus-
tomers being not worth mentioning; and
even the railway contracts are not kept filled.
Tait noticed this a while back, and notified
them that he would not insist on their carrying
out their contracts so long as he could
get Newcastle coal, but in the event of a
‘'difficulty” in that locality they must keep
their regular daily contracts, and must also
make up arrears. Any business man should
have seen that this intimation was loaded,
and resolved not to get behind again. A
“difficulty” in the N.S.W. coal business could
only mean one thing—a huge rise in price. There-
fore the Gippsland companies would want'to have
as much free coal as possible to sell to the public
when the price was up, and Tait’s intimation that
if they let their contract supplies to the railways
get behind they would have no free coal to sell,
for he would grab the lot, was the kind of wink
that was calculated to make even a dead horse
sit up and start delivering the goods. But the
Gippsland owners just drifted along. The trouble
came. The price of coal skied itself like a rocket,
and these anguished proprietors, just when the
public was offering them almost any money,
found Tait annexing their output at the old figure
to make up for past short deliveries.
THE EARLY WARRIOR.
Senator Sayers (Q.) urged historic associations as con-
siderations which should govern the use of uniforms,
Something like thin, frinstance.
THE DEATH OF BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The English consumption of beer shows a marked
decline.— Press item.
Bung hath his sorrows, Beer hath tasted woe,
The planets in their courses come and go,
From brazen taps some nectar droppings flow,
But not with gladness.
The end of all things loometb full in sight.
Behold, the pubs are dying in the night,
And every spirit of our lost delight
Is full of sadness !
Walketh abroad a spectre gaunt and grim,
Deserts of drought and dryness follow him ;
No “beaded bubbles” winking at the brim
Have power to cheer him ;
No beer-maid’s smile shall turn him from his path ;
No comrade’s mirth unlock the frown that hath
Wrinkled his narrow brow in lowering wrath,
To make Bung fear him.
Teutonic Dreadnoughts throng the narrow seas,
The flags of foemen flutter on the breeze ;
Yet never at the hands of such as these
Fear we disaster.
He comes with sileht step and ghostly tread,
His spectre sword is held above our head,
From dreams of joy we wake to find Beer dead,
And red thirst master.
No more embowered in deep beer-orchards cool
We leave afar the camp and court and school,
The talking idiot, and the preaching fool.
Nor peace and quiet ;
No more for us is any place of calm,
Dead is the solemn Bacchanalian psalm—
Our drought-parched whiskers hear our earnest damn
’Mid Tea’s wild riot.
MAORILANI).
D.M.W.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD (VIEDAL.
“ NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
ft r thur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent stock of Large Boilers for
all Mining- Purposes, for working- pressures of
1201 b. and lnOib. per square inch, by Ruston
Proctor. Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
belting
BELTING.
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Mininarpurposes. Solb Agents',
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT & BENDICO.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Queensland Treasurer has just delivered ms
annual financial statement. A few facts not mentioned
therein: The increase in expenditure for 1908-09 as
compared with 1907-08 was nominally £383,207. In
reality the increase was £383,207 plus £125,000, or
£508,207, the bona-fide expenditure for 1907-08 being:
£125,000 less than was shown in the Treasury returns for
that year. The sum mentioned was devoted to the
extinction of certain old debits against the Treasury
(loans for deep sinking, charges against old loans, etc.).
While the increase in expenditure for 1908-09 was
thus £508,000, the increase in revenue was £277,000 ;
so that the increase in expenditure was nearly
twice as great as the increase in revenue. In 1906-7
Queensland had a surplus of £396,000. Last year that
Surplus dropped to £9940. And this wasn’t due to either
a falling off in Federal returns or a decrease in local reve-
nue through bad seasons. Last year (1908-9) the Federal
Treasurer returned to Queensland no less a sum than
£1,057,872— by far the largest amount ever received by a
Queensland Treasurer. The season, moreover, was a
really good one. Yet the surplus dwindled down to
£9900. Loan expenditure for the year also mounted up
to 1J millions, as against the modest half-million per
annum of a few years previously.
The Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd. (Sydney):
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1899 .. £4,174 5 per cent. = £2672 £1,502 £17,435
1900 .. 14,064 8 ~ ~ 4275 9,789 27,224
1901 .. 15,291 8 ~ ~ 4285 11,006 38,230
1902 .. 11,629 8 „ ~ 4295 7,334 45,564
Loss.
1903 .. 4,369 Nil 41,195
Profits.
1904 .. 11,067 8 per cent. = 4300 6,757 47,952
1905 .. 8,527 8 „ ~ .4300 4,227 62,179
1906 .. 13,212 8 „ ~ 4300 8,912 61,091
North Queensland Accident Co.’s reserves 976 62,067
1907.. 20,260 8 per cent. = 6000 14,260 76,327
1908 .. 13,033 8 ~ „ 6000 7,033 83,360
1909 .. 15,046 8 „ ~ 6000 9,646 93,006
This is One of the energetic Australian offices—an office
which is not only Australian, but doesn’t mind saying so.
In fact, it goes further, and is doing valuable work in
trying to wake Australians up to the wisdom of keeping
their money in their own country instead of dropping it
into the pockets of the foreigner. And the figures
printedherewithshowthatitismakinggood progress. No
doubt it meets plenty of troubles on the road. Some of
the biggest Australian life insurance concerns, for
instance, which have hundreds of thousands in pro-j
perties, don’t give a penn’orth of their fire in-
surance business to Australian offices. They wouldn’t
be able to find words to express their opinion of the
unpatriotic behavior of Australians who would insure
their lives with a foreign office; but they don’t hesitate
to do their own insuring with the foreigner. Probably
95 per cent, of the shareholders in the Australian fire-
insurance.offices are insured with Australian life offices ;
and probably 7 not a dozen of these Australian life policy-
holders are interested in foreign fire offices. Yet the
foreign offices mostly get the fire business. And to a
great extent it is the same with Australian banks and
other similar concerns. Of course they say, “Oh, well,
they’re English offices, anyhow.” That is true enough ;
but the English offices only hold a portion of the
Australian risks they take—they pass the balance on to
German, Dutch, Russian, French and other underwriters.
The Australian is gradually getting- into the habit of
taking a pride in the fact that he buys his own g-oods and
so keeps his money circulating in his own country, where
it is liable to come back to him any day ; but he wants a
good deal of educating yet to the fact that the foreign
insurance office is as much an importer of insurance as
the foreign fluff-merchant is an importer of fluff.
To get back to the Queensland Insurance Co.
Its progress of recent years is shown hereunder: —
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 707p.c. 32Tp.c.
1900 .. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58’5 „ 27’2 „
1905 .. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58’2 „ 35T „
1907.. 104,153 53,052 34,987 50'9 ~ 33’6 ~
1908.. 114,117 62,109 42,905 64'4 „ 37’6 ~
1909.. 116,156 61,768 44,384 53’2 ~ 38’2 „
There is an increase of £2039 in the year’s net premiums.
The gross premiums increased from £177,560 to £185,525,
but more than usual was reinsured. The report ex-
plains this; where the co. seemed to be holding
too big a risk in one building- block, some of it has
been cut away. The loss rate continues heavy. The
co. does a considerable marine and Maoriland business,
and, speaking generally, there hasn’t been bread-and-
butter in either of these of late. The assets are, on the
whole, a very good lot. In Government securities and
fixed deposits alone there is £124,376, representing all the
capital and more than half the reserves. The only other
assets of any consequence are freehold properties, £62,438.
The interest return is low ; on the average of the invest-
ments last year it was £3 Bs. Bd. per cent. From the in-
surer’s point of view it is, however, much more important
that the assets should be sound and readily get-at-able
than that they should give a high return. Nevertheless,
even though two-thirds of them are Government stock
and fixed deposits, they last year yielded almost enough
to pay the dividend, leaving the underwriting profit
available for reserves.
« * * *
It was a shocking talc which the chairman of
the Australian Alliance Co. told the shareholders in
Melbourne the other day. In connection with the pro-
posed transfer to the London and Lancashire, a valuation
of the assets had been made, and £59,803 would have to
be written off, he said. According to its last balance-
sheet, the co. had, besides its capital, £49,180 of
reserves. Now it finds that it has not only really
got no reserves at all, blit has lost £22,000
of its capital, which will leave only £2 Is. ljd.
per share to distribute (the shares are £2 10s. paid).
Under the circumstances there doesn’t seem to have been
much of a rush to hand over the necessary shares to com-
plete the transfer. Unfortunately, however, the business
seems to have been so bungled that it is too late to with-
draw except at a heavy loss. The whole concern has been
practically in the hands of the other people for a couple
of months past—and every insurance man knows what
that means.
“ 10 per cent. Discount ” : To my way of think-
ing, the trouble which drove the Australian Alliance to
sell out to a foreign insurance co. has its root in the fact
that the Australian fire offices don't support one another
sufficiently ; and instead of being too many of them,
there are too few, and those few are not as big as they
should he because thoughtless Australians don’t support
them like they ought to. It is well known, of course,
that when an insurance office takes a big line
it doesn’t hold the lot itself—it reinsures with
other offices. The A. A. Co. did not employ “ treaty ”
re-insurers, and was therefore compelled to seek all excess
covers with cos. having offices in Melbourne, and then
trust to those cos. to reciprocate. As, however, cos. like
the London and Lancashire, Phmnix, Royal, Liverpool
and London and Globe, Imperial, Norwich Union, Atlas,
Commercial Union and others have a private arrangement
(made by their head offices) that they shall place their
first re-insurances with “treaty” offices (principally
Russian, French, German and other foreigners), the
result from the Australian office’s point of view has been
disastrous. It had to give away business, but it got very
little in return. The ordinary British cos. accept, say, five
or six times the amount they can hold, and, instead of plac-
ing the excess lines in Melbourne, send the premiums to
Germany, Russia, France, etc. In return, the “ treaty”
cos., not having any management expenses to charge
against these premiums, allow the cos. which supply the
business a commission of anything from 25 per cent, to4o
per cent, on the net premiums. The result is that busi-
ness and profits which should be retained in Australia are
sent to foreign countries.
The Executor, Trustee and Agency Co. of
South Australia (Adelaide):—
Writ-
ten off Added
Lease- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. holds, serves, serves.
1899.. £1593 sp.c.= £SS9 £2OO £BO4 £2,279
1900 .. 927 5,, ~ 745 75 107 2,386
1901 .. 1877 5 „ ~ 767 685 425 2,811
1902 .. 1833 5 „ ~ 767 690 376 3,187
1903 .. 2836 6 ~ ~ 921 1915 5,102
1904 .. 1987 6 „ „ 921 95 971 6,073
1905 .. 2302 7 „ ~ 1075 100 1127 7,200
1906 .. 2662 7,, „ 1075 151 1436 8,636
1907 .. 4013 7 „ ~ 1075 100 2838 11,474
1908 .. 3776 8., ~ 1228 100 2448 13,922
1909 .. 4340 8 „ ~ 1228 100 3012 16,934
This is now an extremely profitable concern ; and the
growth of the reserves has been so rapid that in less than
11 years the additions have exceeded the total amount of
the paid capital; and the additions during the last three
years alone have been equal to more than half the capital.
The co. was formed in 1880; but it was naturally some
years before it began to have much work to do. A man
may make up his mind that it is a good plan to have
trustee work done by a professional trustee who has put
up security that he will be there when he is wanted, and
will also behave himself. But, no matter how warmly
they favor this idea, few men are self-sacrificing enough
to die at once of theirown accord, just in order to give
their trustee co. some work to do. Consequently the co.
had to wait for its clients todie, meantime making what it
could out of agency work. In 1895 it had £482,987 of
trust funds under its control ; in 1900, £654,499 ; now the
total is £2,129,282. The commission earnings last year
were £6894, which was equal to about 6s. sd. per cent, of
the trust balances. On the average, an estate worth
£5OOO thus pays this co. £l6 a year for its services as
administrator. Yet, though many other people do less
and get more for it, the profits on capital and reserves
are very gaudy. Last year they were over £l4 13s. per
cent. The beauty of this sort of business is that you
don’t have to lock up your capital in unproductive stuff.
Apart from furniture and fittings (£330), perhaps lease-
holds (£1000) and a trifle of till money, all the co.’s money
is earning interest; nearly all of it is in Government
stock and fixed deposits. These are gilt-edged, and
don’t earn a high rate ; yet, as the dividend is modest
and the reserves are big, interest now very nearly pays
the dividend, leaving the profit from the business proper
to go to reserves, where they make tilings safer both for
clients and for shareholders.
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association (Launceston): —
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1903.. £5lO 6 per cent. =£3ls £195 £2476
Sept., 1903.. 470 '6 „ „ 315 155 2631
Mar., 1904.. 815 6 ~315 500 3131
Sept., 1904 .. 667 6 ~ ~ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905 .. 696 6 ~ ~ 315 381 3864
Sept., 1905 .. 1148 6 ~ ~ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906.. 1040 8 ~ ~'430 620 5317
Sept., 1906.. 818 8 „ ~ 420 398 5715
Mar., 1907.. 714 8 „ „ 420 294 6009
Sept., 1907.. 827 8 „ „ 420 407 6416
Mar., 1908.. 841 8 ~ ~ 420 421 6837
Sept., 1908 .. 863 9 ~ ~ 472 391 7228
Mar., 1909 .. 666 9 ~ ~ 472 194 7422
5ept.,1909.. 605 9 ~ ~ 472 133 7555
This co., with a paid capital of £lO,OOO, has that money
and its reserves represented by a £5OOO deposit with the
Treasury, £12,219 on mortgage, and the balance in cash
and sundries. Its liabilities are confined to clients’ credit
balances, £8290 ; this is about equalled by cash and debit
balances on the other side. The co.’s profits are a bit
erratic ; but at the worst there is a fair margin between
them and the dividend. For the past year they were at
the rate of £7 7s. 9d. per cent, on capital and reserves
combined—quite a modest return for a trustee co, The
shareholders’ visible risks are two—the possibility of a
slump in the co.’s own mortgages, though that couldn’t
be very serious ; and the danger that the co. may read a
will in some way that some' Court disapproves of subse-
quently. Tlje latter trouble doesn’t often arise ; but it
hit one or two Melbourne trustee cos. heavily some years
ago.
* * * *
The Colonial Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) :
Written Off
and Losses
Sept., Losses, on Sales. Deficit.
1899 .. £559 £12,067
1900 .. 548 12,615
1901 .. 549 £lOO5 14,169
1902 .. 310 1244 15,723.
1903 .. 62 3668 19,453
1904 .. 159 55 19.667
1905 .. 97 4079 23,843
1906 .. 139 1447 25,429
1907 .. 201 4342 29,972
1908 .. 198 5408 35,578
1909 .. 176 5202 40,956 ■
A man wrote to The Bulletin the other day enclosing, a
tear-stained copy of this co.’s balance-sheet, and ventur-
ing the opinion that either the liquidation was bad or the
management prior to 1892 wasn’t quite what it might
have been. It is wonderful what keen conclusions some
men can come to ! Since 1893 advances, etc. (which
means chiefly foreclosed properties) of the book-value of
£118,248 have been sold, or given away with a pound of
tea, or otherwise got rid of; and all the debt that has
been paid off with the proceeds amounts to £69,387. This
shows the catastrophe in more detail: —
1893. 1900. 1908. 1909.
Deposits .. .. £69,444 £45,472 £33,031 £29,165-
OtherdebtS .. 29,108 7,324 Nil Nil
Advances, etc. .. 153,393 84,559 43,403 35,145
Cash .. .. 554 1,089 136
Other assets .. 2,798 3,068 960 928
So far depositors have got back 9s. in the £ ; and if they
gradually get another 7s. they will probably consider
themselves very lucky. If the assets in hand pan out no
better than those that have been got rid of hitherto
there will be only about £19,000 available, which
will be equal to paying about ,7s. 3d. out of
the unpaid 11s. But as the assets dwindle the ex-
penses won’t quite dwindle to correspond; so the
odd threepence is liable to drop down a hole somewhere.
Certainly, owing to the much-improved state of things in
Melbourne, better prices may be got for the oddments
that are left in the bottom of the bag; but the co.’s
record of the past few years isn’t exactly bursting with
the promise of anything of that sort. On the contrary,
things have panned out rather worse than before.
The Tasmanian Wool-Growers’ Agency Co.
(Launceston): —
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1902;. £4273 25 p.c. =£2231 £2042 £11,979
1903.. 3384 25 „ ~ 2231 £142 1011 12,990
1904.. 3223 25 ~ „ 2231 2858 11,124
1905.. 3489 '25 ~ „ 2231 1000 258 11,382
1906.. 3300 25 „ „ 2231 1250 11,201,
1907.. 3229 25 „ „ 2231 1000 . 11,199
1905.. 2187 25 ~ ~ 2231 800 10,355
1909.. 2990 25 2231 767 10,347
In 1908 there were some extraordinary expenses, includ-
ing £957 paid in connection with a new business on the
North-West Coast; portion of this represented good-
will paid for another co.’s business connection. In
the same year 100 guineas was voted as a
bonus to one of the officers. Except for these special
outgoings, that year’s profits would have exceeded
£3220. Substituting those figures for the ones that have
appeared in the table, it will be seen that ever since 1904
the profits have been shrinking. Apparently the chief
trouble is keener competition. That, however, wouldn’t
matterso much if settlement were increasing in Tasmania ;
but it isn’t to any extent worth mentioning. Nor is the
outlook for this current year any better ; for the potato-
blight trouble is hitting Tasmania in one of
its soft places, and hurting it badly. Still, it isn’t
a hurt which should be felt for long; for potato blight
isn’t like an orchardi.st’s pest—you don’t have to destroy
many years’ work to get rid of it, and then wait for a
few more vears to get a harvest again. This co.’s capital
is only £8500; but in the good days, when the co. wasn’t
troubled with competition as it is now, it also built up
a handy reserve, which now enables it to pay its very big
dividend. Nevertheless, as it now owes £32,283, and has
the whole of that and more out in advances and other
debts, it would be much more satisfactory if the dividend
were reduced and a trifle were added to reserves. Only
once in the past six years has anything whatever been
added to them—including unappropriated profit, of
course, with reserves. It has been assumed in the fore-
going table that the usual bonus will be paid to the staff ;
and £l3O has been deducted from the disclosed profits to
provide for it.
The Swan Bkkwery Co., Perth (Westralia): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept.,’o3.. 14,740 24 p.c. = 12,160 264 2,316 102,609
Premiums on new share issue .. 12,834 115,443
Mar., ’04..29,717 32 p.c. = 16,213 346 13,158 128.601
Premiums on new' share issue .. 5,265 133,866
Sept.,’o4. .19,571 24 p.c. = 12,174 326 7,071 140,937
Securities written up .. 1,350 142,287
Mar., ’O5 .24,706 32 p.c. = 16,232 238 8,236 150,523
5ept.,’05..19,663 24 „ ~12,174 267 7,222 157,745
Mar., ’06..24,383 32 ~ ~ 16,232 186 7,965 165,710
Sept.,’o6.. 13,038 24 „ ~12,174 832 32 165,742
(And Div. Tax.)
Mar., ’07..24,601 24 p.c. = 12,783 617 11,201 176,943
Sept.,’o7.. 14,528 24 ~ ~12,783 1020 725 177,668
Mar., ’08..22,829 24 „ „ 12,783 786 9,260 186,928
Sept.,’oB.. 15,265 24 „ ~12,783 697 1,785 188,713
Mar., ’09..24,743 24 ~ ~ 12,783 1777 10,183 195.896
Sept.,’o9.. 17,355 24 ~ ~12,783 1500 3,072 201,968
What a chance it has been for Judkins! The co. was
formed in Melbourne in 1887 to take over a Perth busi-
ness. Nobody in those days troubled much about petti-
fogging details ; it was the time when the city man
waved a lordly paw to his confidential clerk and told him
to do the thing properly. The co. had a vague idea that
somebody had guaranteed dividends or something, hut
nobody was quite certain about anything, and when calls
were made shares were forfeited wholesale. About that
time T. W. Hardwick was sent over to straighten things
up; and he did it. By September, 1896, when the paid
capital was £32,134, a dividend at the rate of 34 per cent,
was paid. In the next year the directors decided
to re-issue 14,000-odd forfeited shares at 17s. 6d. ;
and that brought up the capital to £44,364. In that
half-year of 1896-7 the net profit was £22,038—at the rate
of just on 100 per cent, per annum on the increased
capital. The gold boom was on, and the co. coined
money. From that time downwards the capital has been
steadily increased, generally by the issue of shares at a
fairly small premium ; and this money, along with the
big surplus profits, has been mostly put into hotel pro-
perties. The present capital is £101,450, in 255. shares;
but it is probable that some more will be issued shortly.
The reserves are therefore practically double the capital;
and when it is also noted that some of the assets have
been written down very hard, so that probably’ an
internal reserve has been built up, the 24 per cent,
doesn’t look quite such an amazing figure. As to
this writing down, nothing, it is true, has come
off hotel properties, which stand in the books at the
£178,319 which they cost; but the plant has been written
down from £83,528 to £37,388. The profit on trading
account for the half-year was £23;594 ; and a plant that
can produce a profit of that size in six months doesn’t
seem to be over-valued, to say the least of it. Also a
management which cuts down the value of plant like that
isn’t very likely to knowingly keep other assets in at an
over-valuation. If it wasn’t for that circumstance one
might very reasonably sniff at the fact that brewery lands
and buildings and hotel properties are kept in at cost.
There must havq been depreciation ; but it is possible
that the increase in the value of the properties
purchased in the early days is so gTeat that
it more than counterbalances the cracked window-pane
and the freckled signboard. The co. owes £38,219 to the
bank, besides £12,000 on mortgage ; but the overdraft is
almost exactly equalled by the co.’s own advances;—arid
there’s probably a pound or two in that little transaction.
It all smells Fat. Yet there is a fly in it—a small busy
insect which waves a gingerbeer bottle in one hand and
an umbrella in the other, and urges the earth to shut up
the pub and put down the drink. And that it has made
some progress in W. A. is proved by the new Licensing
Bill now before the State Parliament —a Bill which, if it
passes, will make it pretty well impossible for any more
pubs to be built, even if those at present in existence
manage to escape destruction.
The Volum Brewing Co., Ltd. (Geelong, Vie.):
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Aug., 1902 ..£lOOB 8 p.c. =£395 £IS2 £7,231
Feb., 1903 .. 1127 S,, ~ 396 174 £557 7,788
Aug., 1903 .. Information not available—B p.c. div.
Feb., 1904 .. 1316 10 p.c. = 498 169 8,293
Aug., 1904 .. 1266 10 ~ ~ 500 161 605 '8,898
Feb., 1905 .. 1373 16 ~ ~ 500 256 617 9,515
Aug.', 1905 .. 731 10 ~ ~ 500 640 9,106
Feb., 1906 .. 1317 10 ~ ~ 500 750 67 9,173
Aug., 1906 .. 1010 10 ~ ~ 500 134 376 9,549
Feb., 1907 .. 1353 10 ~ ~ 500 136 717 10,266
Aug., 1907 .. 868 10 „ ~ 500 127 241 10,507
Feb., 1908 .. 1577 10 ~ ~ 500 523 554 11,061
Aug., 1908 .. 959 10 „ „ 500 618 10.902
Feb., 1909 .. 841 10 ~ ~ 500 140 201 11,103
Aug., 1909 .. 833 10 „ ~ 500 137 _ 196 11,299
Either Geelong is drinking much less beer or fids co. has
to pay much more for the stuff it makes the beer with ;
hence the profits from brewings are exactly half of \\ hat
they were in the corresponding six months of 1906. For-
tunately for shareholders rents keep up, and so the
chairman doesn’t have to apologise for anything less than
10 percent. Other details
Align, Aug., Feb., Aug.,
1898. 1908. 1909. • 1909.
Capital .. .. £9234 £lO,OOO £lO,OOO £lO,OOO
Liabilities .. ~ 9541 11,258 11,912 11,791
Brewery and plant 8908 7,981 8,338 8,295
Other freeholds' .. 7800 21,537 20,827 21,175
Stock, book debts 3557 3,54(2 3,740 3,619
Cash .. .. 486 98 609 499
Liabilities are chiefly mortgages on pubs. Apart from
that the figures don’t seem to call, or even whisper, for
any remark.
Melbourne Ice-Skating and Refrigerating
Co.:—
Deficit.
Preliminary expenses .. £387
Premium on shares, £125 .. .. .. 262
Written Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
1906 .. £5732 5 percent. = £1225 £1457 £2788
1907 .. 702 Nil 1500 1990
1908 .. 1245 Nil 1500 1735
On Pref. Shares.
1909 .. 2066 7J per cent. = 232 1500 2069
This co. thought it saw money in the ice-skating boom ;
so it put up £24,500, and when it g r ot its first returns it
thought it had struck the finest patch of clover in Aus-
tralia. In less than four months a profit of £5732 was
made. Then, however, a frost set in, and Society’s
enthusiasm for ice-skating seemed to be frozen.
Thereupon the co. decided to rely less on Society and,
more-on mutton, and preparations were made to extend
the cold-storage business. Ttiis cost money ; and the co.
didn’t have much on hand to start with. Therefore it
became necessary to raise the wind somehow, and £oooo
was got in during last year by an issue P« cent,
cumulative pref. shares-dear money ; but no doubt the
bank wasn’t any too affable, so something had to be done.
This shows how various liabilities have raovea .
1906. 1907. 1908. 1909
Mortgage .. .. £3OOO £1,500 £1,500 £1,500
Overdraft .. •• 2388 13,a68 14,609 8,861
Other debts .. .. 2667 1,364 1,292 IMS
Total .. £8055 £16,432 £17,451 £11,804
So after paying the div. on the new pref. shares and pro-
viding £l5OO for depreciation, the co. in the past year has
a little more than held its own ; for besides reducing its
debts by £5647, it has increased its assets apart from land,
plant etc., by £l4l. Hut it wants more money for further
cold-storage extensions, and the other £5OOO pref. shares,
which have been authorised, will probably
The outlook certainly isn’t as gloomy as it was 12 month
or two years ago. The ice-skating business now looks as
though it might be a permanently payable thing in'
—anyhow while times are good and pm money plentifu.
The cold storage business is erratic ; but the
(shipping men mostly) have got this concern in tad.
And the picture show', which has evidently come to stay,
supplies a tenant for the big rink in the summer t
Taits have it at present.
» * * *
The Maryborough Co-operative Dairy Ca
(Maryborough, Q.), which, after a long struggle to get in
the necessary capital, started with a deficit of £385 repre-
senting preliminary exes.
Bonus
to Writ-
Divs. and Sup- ten De-
ices Tax. pliers. Off. ficit.
June, 190! .. £l5 - ~ “ £4o °
Dec., 1901 ..63 “ f 37
June,1902.. 178 - ~ v" ££
Dec., 1902.. 30 £ lOO
Loss.
J une, 1903.. 28 ~
Profit.
Dec., 1903.. 40. - . ~ ~
Re-
serves
June, 1904.. 276 - - “
Dec., 1904.. 700 8 p.c.= £76 683
June, 1905.. 953 8„„ 83 £ll6 1437
Dec., 1905.. 247 8„„ 90 119 14^5
June, 1906.. 1023 8„ „ 117 273 249 1859
Dec., 1906.. 750 8,, ~ 158 291 2160
June, 1907 .. 220’ 1940
Dec., 1907.. Pl 55 t 3 57 1608
June, 1908.. 1925 8 p.c.= 190 315 3028
Loss."
Dec., 1908 4 925 2099
Profit.
June, 1909.. 2274 8 p.c.= 200 350 38.3
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate only.
The total amount of the dividend is estimated, and
shouldn’t be far out; but the 3| per cent, bonus to
suppliers is a guess and may be right off the target.
Previously the bonus had been 2J per cent, when it had
been anything. This society doesn’t adopt the general
practice of distributing the bonus in the shape of a rebate
on the commissions paid—lo, 25 or 30 per cent., as the
case may be. It apparently calculates the bonus on the
amount of the cheques paid by the co. for supplies.
There isn’t much to choose between the two plans.
It really doesn’t matter what you call it or how
you calculate the bonus; the essence of the
co-operative system is that the profits which
under so-called Private Enterprise are dragged into the
pockets of an unnecessary middleman pass into those of
the actual producer ; and that gives the actual producer
less excuse for adopting child or any other sort of Cow-
slavery. The co.’s profits, it will be noticed, are erratic.
To a great extent that is due to the co.’s export trade.
For instance, in the latter half of 1907 there was a profit
of £942 on the working of the Maryborough factory ; but
the co.’s liingaroy factory lost £192, while no less than
£690 had to be provided to cover an over-estimate of the
value of the previous half-year’s shipments. The liability
to accidents of this sort suggests the need of solid reserves,
more especially as the co. can’t always rely upon having
a good half-year to wipe out a loss on the previous half-
year’s shipments. Thus in the latter half of last 3*ear the
loss was due simply to a dry season and poor cream sup-
plies. Moreover, much more attention ought to be
given to writing down plant, etc., to cover depreciation.
The wear and tear on plant is as much a charge against
revenue as wages are;, and to sweeten the results by
neglecting this dharge must result in humbugging some-
body. The debts are small; apart from accounts ow'ing
to suppliers, which are more than covered by stocks on
hand, practically the only liabilities are to the Govern-
ment (advanced at 4 per cent, to give the factories a
start), £2224 ; and overdrafts, £9OO. Among the assets
is the often-doubtfulitem, “Estimated balance by Loudon
agents on account of consignments,” £853. It would be
an advantage to pass a good proportion of the surpluses
realised by shipments to a special export reserve or sus-
pense account.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 14 :
Written ;
Loss. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Sept., 1903.. £2,247 Nil £5,522
Mar., 1904.. 2,618 Nil 2,904
Forfeited capital added to Reserves, £29 2,933
Sept., 1904.. 2,578 Nil 355
Deficit.
Mar., 1905.. 533 Nil 178
Profit. Reserves.
Sept., 1905.. 21,855 Nil 21,677
Premiums on pref. shares, £476 22,153
Mar., 1906.. 17,595 £6,335 33,413
Sept., 1906.. 22,963 11,500 44,876
Mar., 1907.. 54,747 21,500 £4333 73,790
Sept., 1907.. 78,170 36,500 4179 111,281
Mar., 1908.. 11,217 36,500 3387 82,611
Sept., 1908.. 7,983 1,500 3575 85,519
Loss.
Mar., 1909.. 4,170 1,500 79,849
Sept., 1909.. 40 1,500 . 78,309
This co.’s mine adjoins the B. H. Prop, on the north;
and, as in the big' mine’s northern block, the search for
ore bodies at depth has been extremely disappointing.
Having developed very limited reserves, the co. grabs
any chance to shut down the sulphide workings and mill
when the metal markets are low. They haven’t been high
lately, so the mill has been idle. By a bit of
good luck the co. a few years ago found that
a number of isolated carbonate bodies had been left near
the surface, and these have been rooted out. How much
more remains nobody knows : the management sees about
10,000 tons ahead. This stuff has been highly profitable,
though it takes a lot of finding nowadays. Still, it has
enabled the co. to go on with some prospecting for sul-
phides and also build up a good cash reserve of £50,418.
The dividend shown as paid for the half-year is on prefer-
ence shares. The co. lias big dumps of rather poor zinc
tailings. The Murex Co., after handling a small quantity
of the co.’s ore, undertook to put up a plant to treat the
lot; but so far it has made no move to do so.
The Southland Farmers’ Co-operative Asso-
ciation, Ltd. (Invercargill (M.L.):—
Bonus to Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Purchasers. Off. serves.
1904.. £509 5 p.c. = £366 £9O £932
1905.. 659 5 ~ „ 414 134 1043
1906.. 1506 5 „ „ 423 £292 125 1709
1907.. 1694 5£ „ ~ 641 415 150 2197
1908.. 554 6 ~ ~ 842 214 -» 1695
Loss.
1909.. 263 Nil 100 1332
This co. was started in 1901. Southland had had co-
operative concerns before, and had starved them to death,
though it may be admitted that they weren’t always as
well managed as they should have been. Consequently
this youngster had to do some hard battling, and
apparently still has to do it. Invercargill, Gore and
thereabouts, where the concern has offices and branches,
do dearly love a bargain ; if they can get it a ha’penny


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K,| 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC’’ (Signalled free of charge).
Xn Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 40S Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
THE BUTTERS
VACUUM FILTER.
Write for particulars to
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne; “
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
[1
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power alsq means that
new appliances could be installed without' the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
J ode Lite Wood Preservative, for preserving
timber against White Ants, Dry Rot, Fungus Teredos,
ravages rats, damp walls, etc. Used by all Australian
Governments. 1250 galls, supplied S.A. Government
in one order in September. Agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, also Melbourne and
Brisbane.*
* * * *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor ” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [1
* * * *
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [2
* * # *
If coal and other mining companies, railway
contractors and users generally are desirous of purchas-
ing explosives at competitive figures, we should strongly
advise them to enquire into the unique and thoroughly
original terms and conditions offered by the Cape
Explosives Works Ltd., whose agents, Noyes Bros.
(Sydney) Ltd., 109 Pitt Street, will be glad to .give them
full particulars on request. A mail card request will cost
you one penny; the saving to be effected is illimitable.*
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issue
of 30/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited : —“The Colonial Mutual typi-
fies to a great extent the Australian spirit, the keynotes
of which are ambition and enterprise. This Society has
much which commends it for acceptance to our country-
men, while its reputation for straightforward dealings
largely explains its success in the other countries in
which it operates.”
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
•* * * •
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives. —Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S.W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consul ting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison <fc Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write lis for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * » *
The coal strike has given a further impetus to
the sale of suction gas engines and plants, and those who
have already installed a Ruston Plant are finding the
great advantage of being independent of the coal supply.
The producer works splendidly on charcoal fuel, and as
the cost of installing a plant is small compared to that of
a steam engine and boiler, the installation of a Ruston
Plant naturally presents to power users a more attractive
proposition than the closing down of the works. Gibson,
Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William
Street, Melbourne, have all sizes of suction gas plants
in stock.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
less elsewhere, then elsewhere has the business. For,
like most Maoriland farmers’ co-operative concerns, the
chief end of this co. is, not co-operative marketing of
the farmers’ goods, but the co-operative supply of his
farm and other requirements. The result is that the
Maoriland co-op. concern mostly needs to carry a pretty
bio-stock; and that means capital. But as the co-op.
farmer usually isn’t prepared to put up much capital, the
bank generally has to provide a good deal of money ; and
in a bad season that is a drag, for no matter how bad
the season is the interest has to be provided. In
fact, the worse the season is, and the scarcer money is,
the bigger the interest bill; and that and the £4OO writ-
ten off for bad debts account for the loss shown on the
past year’s transactions. The co.’s liabilities have grown
fast. On a paid capital of only £19,410, the co. has debts
of £47,325, of which £17,452 is deposit money and £16,181
overdraft. That this is far too great a liability somebody
appears to realise ; for an extraordinary meeting is being
held this month to raise capital by an issue of preference
shares. Far too much of the profit has also been
distributed, resulting in the starvation of the
reserves. The co. has £12,000 in properties purchased
in recent years, and therefore most likely at high values ;
and it has £23,439 of unsecured book-debts, besides
secured debts (£5230) and bills (£4796). To safeguard
the capital (mostly borrowed) which has been put into
these things it has only a paltry £1332 of reserves. It is
possible that, having very poor co-operators to deal with,
the management has been almost forced into offering
baits in the shape of bonuses and dividends before it was
ready ; but it is most unfortunate, for it has unquestion-
ably weakened the foundations of the concern. There
are, by the way, 11 directors. Probably things would
have gone much better if there had been five, or even
three. A crowd like this costs money, and mostly does
too much talking to do much working.
« ♦ * »
Naturally there has been a great deal of dis-
cussion about coal-mining profits, and many of the state-
ments have been very loose. There are a few highly
profitable coal concerns ; but mostly the return is not
very large. Goal mines can be divided into two classes :
those that are either owned or partly owned by shipping
people, who are the chief coal-distributors, and those —
far too numerous—which have to rely on casual and
foreign trade. The coal co. which can work in with a
shipping co., and can thus rely on a fairly regular output,
is in clover. The other isn’t. There are 13 cos. whose
shares are quoted on the Sydney Stock Exchange. Two of
them (Heddon Greta and South Greta) have never paid a
dividend, Wickham and Bullock Island paid its last in 1901,
the Stockton in 1905, and the Waratah in 1907. The others
have been regular div.-payers. The Wallsend is, on the
whole, the most profitable of the company-owned
Northern collieries: during the last 10 years it has paid
anything from 10 to 35 per cent. The Newcastle, another
of the old mines, has, on the other hand, been paying only
5 per cent. It has been much more erratic; in the past
seven years it has averaged under 8 per cent. The Lamb-
ton and Burwood are owned by the Scottish-Australian
Mining Go. Many years ago it paid as much as 20 per
cent. In the last 10 years it has averaged about
2} per cent. The Hetton is now paying 6 per
cent. ; that is rather above the average of the
past seven years. The East Greta, which owns also the
Stanford Merthyr, pays 10 per cent., and is probably
making a good deal more. The Caledonian Co., in which
a shipping firm is largely interested, owns the Aberdare,
Aberdare Extended, Waratah, West Wallsend and others;
it is apparently paying 12J per cent. Many of the mines
are owned either by private individuals or small private
cos. which publish no accounts. Included in this lot are
Brown’s Pelaw Main, Duekenfield, Minmi and other
collieries ; and the Dudley and others in which the
same people are heavily interested. Few figures
are available as to the profits made by Southern
collieries. The most consistently successful is the
Bellambi—another of the cos. with a shipping connection.
It pays 17£ p.c., and has issued numerous bonus shares,
which makes the return really higher. The South
Clifton, over which so much labor trouble has occurred,
is owned by a small private co. The Metropolitan is
owned chiefly in England. It has two lots of preference
shares, 8 and 10 p.c. The dividends on these have been
paid, though for a time they were in arrears ; but the
ordinary shares (issued in the first place to the vendors)
don’t seem to have ever got a dividend.
* * * *
In the week before the coal strike happened the
number of days worked in the various Northern mines
was as follows: —Pelaw Main, Abermain, Ebbw Main,
Young Wallsend, Hetton, Newcastle A Pit, Sea Pit and
Burwood Extended collieries worked five days each ;
Aberdare, Aberdare Extended, Burwood, Rhondda and
Stanford Merthyr, four days; East Greta and Hebburn,
3 j days ; West Wallsend, Killingworth, Waratah, Seaham
No 1, Seaham No. 2, Dudley and Ebbw Vale, three days ;
Co-operative and Heddon Greta, 2£ days; Elerrnore Vale,
Neath, Maryland and Shortland, two days; Lymington,
1£ days; Back Creek, Duekenfield, Wallsend Tunnel
and Pacific, oneday ; Wallsend, Pit, Lambton.Lambton B,
Northern Extended, Borehole and Northumberland, nil.
When the public looks at that list and realises that not
half the mines worked half time, and that over a dozen
worked less than 2/ days, it ought to understand why the
miners feel in a vague way that something is wrong. It
may be a fact that a strike won’t make them any better ;
but, anyway, owners who can only offer their workmen a
job for lj or two days a week have no right to get on the
high horse and refuse to meet them in an open confer-
ence. The demand for an open conference shows at least
that the miners are not afraid of their case ; but the
Owners don’t seem nearly as confident of theirs.
* * * *
So far the coal strike has worried the copper
miner more than any other sort of metal gouger ; but it
hasn’t worried the owner as much as it would have done
if the metal were up to £BO a ton. Moonta arid Wallaroo,
where the profit margin is very narrow, was the first to
cave in. The mines are wet, and the directors said they
couldn’t afford to burn fuel to raise or cook ore when it
might be wanted in a few weeks or months to keep the
pumps going. Great Cobar lasted about a fortnight longer ;
but it has now stopped taking ore from outside mines,
and is easing off its own output. Kootra closed down ;
it explained that, as it relied on getting its ore away as
back-loading in coal trucks, it found itself in trouble
when the coal trucks stopped. The custom smelting
works are not yet affected ; Kembla has a good supply of
fuel. Mount Lyell is also fairly well off.
Outside copper, there have been a few stoppages.
Hoskins’ ironworks and the Portland Cement works
(N.S.W.) are; closed, being unable to arrange matters
with the miners; but general-manager Suther-
land, of the Commonwealth Oil Corporation, had
more tact or better luck. So far, the Broken
Hill mines have not been affected; the B. H. Prop, is
going on with its smelting contracts with the other
mines, and the Sulphide Corporation’s Cockle Creek
works still have steam up. There has, however, been a
rush to get away zinc concentrates in case the waterside
unions should down tools. Apart from a few people who
had big stocks of coal on hand in N.S.W. and Victoria
(there were two or three nice cargoes in Sydney Harbor
at the time), about the happiest people are the Collie
(W.A.) and Victorian coal-mine owners. Collie is doing
a bigger bunkering trade than it has ever done before.
The Maoriland coal-miners got word that shipments of
coal were being sought there for Australian use; and
they promptly cabled that there would be trouble if the
owners tried to cut into the Australian trade while the
N.S.W. strike was on.
* * •* *
Now that the North Broken Hill mine has
proved that the southern ore body lives down to 1100 ft.,
the next question to settle is, what length of ore has the
co. to work on at that level? The shoot of ore known as
the southern body in the North mine is the same that
is being worked in the Junction North, and surveys made
in the latter mine show that the western underlay is
carrying the ore further into the Junction North
and away from the North’s boundary at each level.
This shoot of ore traverses the leases diagonally,
and comes in at the point where the boundaries of the
Junction, British (Block 16), Junction North and North
meet. The northern pitch of the shoot carries it into the
North mine, and it depends a good deal on the angle of
that pitch and its direction, whether the North will
have a large or a small run of ore between the 950 ft. and
1100 ft. levels, and at greater depth. Up to the present,
the ore body has not exhibited a very earnest desire to
pitch out of the North mine into the Junction North,
as the dip to the westward has been very slight. But even
if the lode continues underlaying west at its present rate,
the deeper it goes the greater will be the length of
ore in the Junction North, and the less in the North.
The North co. has conducted its diamond drilling on the
1100 ft. level with suspicious stealth, and no figures have
been published showing the distance away from the
Junction North boundary at which the lode was prodded.
m * * *
Several of the Broken Hill mines have been
placing offerings of ore and slimes on the altar of the
Horwood process now in the experimental stage
at Bendigo. The result of some of these tests
has been that mining men on the field are
beginning to suspect that the process, like most
others, has its limitations. Old slimes that have
been weathering on the surface for many years, such as
those at the Junction and Junction North, have become
oxidised to such an extent that it is difficult to see how
they are going to be successfully treated by a process so
sensitive in the matter of oxidation as the Horwood
method. In the treatment of current or comparatively
fresh slimes the process will no douhtgive every satisfac-
tion. Its big success, however, has been in the matter of
the ore from the Hercules mine, Tasmania, which is prac-
tically nothing but lead, zinc and iron.
* * • *
Ex-Gov. Kintore will have another titbit to
put on the shareholders’ plate when he meets the Sul-
phide Corporation in London next month. For about
two years the Elmore people and the Minerals Separation,
Ltd.; have been having a wild-cat fight in the law courts.
The Sulphide Corporation works the Minerals Separation
Co.’s patent oil-and-acid flotation process, and if things
had gone against that co. there would have been a nice
bill for back royalty to pay to the Elmore people. Things
did go against the co. right up to the Privy Council; but
last week the luck turned, and the Elmore people left the
final court with a judgment against them and all costs to
pay-
• * * •
Tributors have now got into the New Hillgrove
Prop. (N.S.W.), and one party has crushed 450 z. from
4J tons. Those who have seen this mine’s plan know of
those little squares marked with rich assays, some up to
lloz. per ton. But the little patches have only provided
a small tonnage ; and the reserves at the best of times were
hardly worth mentioning. The trouble all through has
been a deficient sense of proportion. A co. in 200,000
shares was too big for 10 stampers to make a living for ;
yet the mine, which was wonderfully rich in places, did
its best, and gave the shareholders back £lO,OOO, or £lOOO
per stamp. After that the Eleanora was purchased. It
was low-grade and refractory, and the plant cost so much
that the co. got over its ears in debt. Now the creditors
are controlling affairs, and the shares are just about
valueless.
• • » *
General-Manager Bellinger, of Great Cobar
(N.S.W.), having had a look round, reckons that the con-
cern can stand more machinery. A fourth big furnace is to
go up, and the converters are to be overhauled and some
trimmings added. Apparently to provide more food for
the plant, both Cobar and Chesney are to have a lot of
money spent on development. But until the co. leaves
off the habit of reckoning in purchased metal with its
own, and reporting the lot as though it came out of its
own mines, there will be a nasty feeling that the people
who run the co. are on the boom.
* ■* * ■*
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, ex-
pects No. 2 east level to soon junction wh-k the western
level coming to meet it. On the completion of this work
they will haul more of the stone from the N.B.F. shaft.
The extreme eastern end of both main levels is disap-
pointing, but there are hopes that another make of stone
will be found beyond the disturbed area. Prospecting on
the Brilliant side of the N.B.F. boundary hasn’t yet been
successful iri finding a payable reef, though some likely-
looking formations have been passed through ; and at
such times people remember that the Bonnie Dundee has
proved a good block of ground over an exceedingly poor
reef. There is in the same way a slight hope that the
same co. will, find an improvement in the hanging wall
reef from No, 4 either by rising into better country or by
extending the level east and west. The October return
was 642 tons for an average of £5 19s. 5d., so the Bonnie
should be well off for cash. But Bonnie Dundee shares
(120,000) have pot.a strong following. Hope deferred has
made the heart of speculators sick.
East Mexican, Charters Towers, is to prospect
more vigorously. Among other work, the underlay shaft
is to be deepened. There has been a fairly big turn-over
of Mexicans, but the market tends to weaken. With
such wealthy neighbors, substantial developments were
expected, and thqir absence has disappointed speculators.
For all that, No. 3 rise from the New Brilliant Freehold’s
No. 1 level has been decidedly encouraging.
« '•* *■ •* *
At Mount Oxide* in the remote parts of nor’-
west Queensland, the owner has struck rich ore in a
tunnel driven into the'hill. Altogether, 200 tons of very
rich stuff have been sent away this year, and the carriers
and camel teams have still a big lot to shift into Norman-
ton. Prospector Henry deserves his success after spend-
ing a lifetime at the game.
* » * *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) is developing into a bulky
proposition ; and, although No: 3 level has not yet been
fully explored, ore reserves run into six figures. Last
month’s output was valued at £10,655 from 5840 tons, and
as the profit is estimated at £lBOB, working costs (30s. 2d.
per ton) absorb a good deal oyer 80 p.c. of the value. The
ore averaged 3'19 per cent. copper and 2Jdwt. gold, and at
present there doesn’t seem much Chance of a big increase
in these values. There are, certainly, bright spots in the
mine ; a study of the mine reports will show a wide range
of values. But the fact that they are building a con-
centrator suggests that even the ore now being smelted
direct is not representative of the whole proposition.
* * * •
The strike at O.K, copper mine (North Queens-
land) is over. It looks as though somebody got out the
books and'showed the men that, ,on recent results, it
would pay the co. better to keep the works shut down,
employing only a few hands on development. Lest share-
holders should be overjoyed at the news of the end of the
strike, the management simultaneously dropped in notice
of the first threepenny call.
The Westralian Taxation Department is asking
rude questions of quite a lot of people nowadays, and in
a great many cases the rude questions are followed by
ruder demands. The Golden Ridge directorate has lately
been wondering what it can do about a bill it has received
for £lO3O which the Department says it should have paid
last year as dividend duty, but didn’t. The Ridge had been
doing very well, and the public was taking its shares
nicely, so it thought it might as well supply a few more to
gamble with. Up to then there had only been 31,200 paid to
15s. By the mere process of passing a few resolutions, and
transferring reserves to capital, the 31,200 at 15s. were
turned into 100,000 at 10s., three pew shares being issued
for each old one, the paid capital being thus increased from
£26,000 to £46,352 without a penny changing hands.
Now the Department says that was equivalent to a divi-
dend of £20,352, and it wants dividend duty. And the
directors are busy trying to convince the Department
that it really doesn’t know what it is talking about.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.), when owned by the old
co., paid £14,285 on a capital of £26,000. Since then
the record has been: —Half-year to September, 1908,
£12,978 ; March, 1909, £14,601; September, 1909, £14,601.
In 18 months £40,000 has thus been paid even on the in-
creased capital of £46,352. In March, 1908, it was
reckoned that the ore reserves were 36,000 tons above and
12,000 tons below the 300 ft. level, worth 455. recoverable
value. The present idea is that there are 60,000 tons of a
recoverable value of 50s. The reserves are therefore
12,000 tons ahead of what they were before the £40,000
was paid. Last half-year’s net profit was £16,375, and
the two divs. of Is. 6d. each absorbed £14,601.
* * f *
8., M. and Co.’s Australian Deep Leads Trust,
concluding that it had no luck in Vic. deep-lead mining,
was faced with two alternatives—to wind up or make a
dash into some new business. Algernon Moreingreckoned
that the division of the few thousands left, panning out a
few pence per share, would do nobody much good ; so
the “dash ” was decided upon. Just then an interest in
some new oilfields at Maikop, at the Black Sea end of the
Caucasus, in Russia, was offered ; and into that the sal-
vage of the Trust’s wreck is to go.
* * ■*
One shareholder at the meeting of the Aus-
tralian Deep Leads Trust in London told Algernon More-
ing, the silver-tongued orator of 8., M. and Co., that his
proposal to put what was left into a Russian oil spec,
was “colossal impudence,” and he clamored for
a committee to investigate “ the worst scan-
dal of modern times,” meaning thereby the Vic-
torian deep-lead boom. Moreing wasn’t cut up
a bit at this. His geniality isn’t hurt by sarcasm or plain
speaking. He almost dropped a tear at the ignorance of
the poor man who didn’t know that the firm had made
and paid millions of pounds in dividends. All the same,
there ought to be some fixing of blame on the right
shoulders as to the colossal frost, and to that extent at
least the shareholder was quite right.
♦ * ¥ *
Nuggetty Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), doesn’t favor
the speckers who, since gold was struck months back,
have never had a chance to recover the money they lost
by wholesale selling when shares stood at about 4s.
Lately they seemed disposed to have another trial of
strength with the bulls. But the mailed fist met them.
A flat make of stone was got at No. 4 level in a drive
east of north. A flat make at Daylesford means that
where the stone junctions with the main lode, good
gold can be relied on ; and when that was realised
the bulls had it all their own way again.
Similar reef occurrences gave Ajax its divs., and also
built up the badly wilted reputation of the Victorian
Cornish. Nuggetty Ajax hit up 6s. 6d. in divs. last half-
year, and is believed to have about 20s. in sight. The
new find is being now used to biff up North Nuggetty
shares ; but as the make of stone is 420 ft. from the
boundary of that claim, as Daylesford shoots are pro-
verbially short, and as it has yet to be proved that the
gold can be got in the pitch, there isn’t much reason to
get excited over that “pup” until it gets a hustle of its
own on. Messrs. Vince and Bell and their friends, with
their recent run of luck, may score something in the
North mine, but it will have to be off their own bat.
Captain W. H. Matthews, Inspector of Mines,
is over on the new Powletr, coalfield, having a look round
on behalf of the S. Aus. Government. It is pretty well
known that he wasn’t too keen on the Maitland (N.S.W.)
proposition ; he didn’t like the depth that the coal would
have to be hauled from, especially in view of the distance
that it would have to be hauled by rail afterwards. The
S. Aus. Government can get a slice of the Powlett field
on a sixpenny royalty basis.
Little Langford and much-travelled Ekberg
unburden themselves over their visit to the Mount Bal-
four (Tas.) Copper Mines. One cryptic remark is that in
No. 1 west crosscut “ the percentage of copper is con-
siderably above the average.” What this means would
puzzle even the High Court Bench. Then there is an up-
to-date way to know a fissure lode when you see it. “ A
big volume of water charged with sulphuretted hydrogen
and carbonic acid gas is forcing its way from below in
this crosscut, between boulders of copper pyrites and
decomposed lode matter. This is a sure indication of a
fissure lode.” Dr. Ekberg and other doctors may, how-
ever, differ on that point. Then follows: “ The eastern lode,
on which our present working is situated, has been traced
to our southern boundary, a distance of about 4000 ft.,
where several surface trenches were started during our
visit, and in two of which very strong indications were
met; in fact, in the most southern trench oxide of copper
and pyrites were already making their appearance.”
“ Strong indications ” are good. To clear the atmosphere
the usual meaning of the term lode may be furnished.
“ A metallic vein, or any regular mineral vein,” is the
orthodox definition of the term. Do the authors of the
report claim that a regular mineral vein 4000 ft. in length
extends througli their lease ? Or is it4oooft. of formation,
or 4000 ft. of outcrop 7 Or is it 4000 ft. of one shoot of ore ?
A little exactitude in mining reports is wanted, especially
when it is said that the southern developments, appa-
rently the “ strong indications ” referred to, give “ ample
assurance of the continuity of the lode throughout our
leases.”
* * * *
“ Bauera ” : Another card has just been played
in the Tasmanian West Coast’s game of poker, which has
been going on for the last seven years. The Zeehan
Smelters and the Hercules Co., whose mine at Mount
Read is one of the chief sources of zinc-lead sulphide on
the West Coast, are the principal players. With the dis-
covery that 30 per cent, zinc could be slagged off a 10 to
15 per cent, lead sulphide, the Zeehan Smelters laid out
their plant to that end, rather 'than solely for the treat-
ment of the cleaner sulphide and carbonate lead ores of
Zeehan and Dundas. The Hercules Co. jumped at the
chance of utilising its large bodies of what had up to then
been unsaleable refractory ore, and entered into contracts
with the Smelters, glad to get rid of the stuff. Finding,
or thinking, that the price left the Smelters too much
profit, and imagining that the Smelters were dependent
on this mine for supplies, the Hercules made use of a
clause in the contract, suspending it in case of a strike.
The co. threatened to reduce wages, and the strike
occurred, at a very'considerable cost to the A.M.A. of
Victoria and Tasmania. The directors thought the
Smelters were in a tight corner, and demanded lower
smelting charges. But the Smelters had meantime been
backing a tributor of the Primrose mine at Rosebery'
whose ore was a bit richer than that of the Hercules. An
application was. also dropped in for the forfeiture of
the Tasmanian Copper Co.’s mine, adjoining the Prim-
rose and on the same lode. The Tasmanian Co., which
had been long idle, set to work, and the Smelters got a
contract for the supply of 30,000 tons at prett.y well their
own price. They were then able to tell the Hercules to
take its ore to Sheol for smelting. The next move was
for the Primrose to do a little bluff. The co. bought the
tributor out at a pretty stiff price, and demanded
better terms from the Smelters. This crowd,
too, the Smelters were able to direct to Sheol,
as they had made peace with the Hercules Co., which
crawled down and eventually resumed wages work
at the old rate. Since then the option obtained by the
Metals Extraction Co. over the Tasmanian Copper Mine
has encouraged the latter co.’s directors to refuse to
enter into any large contracts, and the position of the
Hercules Co. has been strengthened; so that, after
another period of idleness and bluff, the Smelters are com-
pelled to take the Hercules ore and pay demurrage. All
these deals in the little three-handed game of poker make
miners and business men squirm a bit; but the Tas.
Mining Act is lenient, and a lessee with sufficient political
pull may do pretty well as he likes.
A cable to the Tongkah Tin Co. says that an
option over a rich gold-dredging property of 1600 acres
has been secured—apparently in Burmah ; the Xongkah
is in Siam, next door. The published cable says the
ground is worth lljd. per ton ; possibly that means per
yard. In Australia there would be a profit of about Bd.
per yard in that. Nevertheless, the cable didn’t send
many people rushing to buy Tongkahs. When a co.,
after pecking at a property for a while, sets out looking
for other properties, it leaves a nasty suspicion behind it
that the first property isn’t what it looked from the
outside.
*****
The S’African gold-dredging concern, which
J. C. Watson has been looking into, is to be worked by
the Mynpachts Gold Dredging Co. The capital will be
£50,000, and the money necessary for working the show
will be raised by issuing 20,000 contrib. shares. The eo.
will be in the office of H. S. Evton, who manages also the
Tewksbury Amalgamated—the Braidwood (N.S.W.) show
in which the same people are interested.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF :
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HAM.; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excelleut band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN .for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
.EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
PICTURES
State wishes clearly,
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties .
Send full particulars, with all plans and repo-ts
available, to “MINE.” care J. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
'Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F* 0* Robinson, Proprietor
a
.
'
yotcJMilesPcfuallonThan
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
r> O') S: Vr“r
A.
FOR
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Polstan ” :
There is no crea-
ture or reptile that
is killed quite so
furiously, even
after it is dead, as
a snake. When a
new chum kills one
he doesn’t do clean
murder. Instead,
he belabors every
inch of the late
lamented for 18
minutes with a
sliprail or small
sapling, till the
snake resembles
nothing so much as
a strap. Then the
newchum smashes
it in three pieces
and kicks them
half a mileasunder.
But Billjim is more
deliberate. He
likes an artistic-
ally-killed snake.
He snicks it be-
hind the larboard
ear with a switch,
and then neatly
coils up the corpse,
and goes chuck-
ling on his way.
The next bloke
who sights the rep-
tile stuffs his
startled heart back
into its socket,
and stalks the
cadaver and kills
it again. He ac-
knowledges the
joke, and passes it
on. Snake gets
most horribly
killed about seven
times more, and begins to present a somewhat
threadbare appearance. Finally, someone drives
a waggon over it and ends the deception for
ever. Then the spot for hundreds of yards around
begins to shriek, and for the next few weeks people
cut through the paddocks.
* * * *
The 28 men who occupied the boards this
season at Manuka (North Queensland) claim that
their average of 203 f sheep in one day throws
down the gauntlet to anything in the machine-
shearing line yet done in Australia. On another
day 19 men averaged 208. The top tallies were
F. Fern, 263, and Frank Seary, 236. Broad gauge
machines were used.
» * » •
“Starfish”: So the heathen Chinee has
poked his way on to the Big Trickle at last. The
first of him passed here, on the Middle Darling,
only to-day, hoofing it down stream. In a long
experience of Western Outback I have never
before seen a Chinese, with his long pole and
bundles attached thereto, on a Darling River
hoof-pad. I had an inclination to shoot him and
have him dried ; but, not being in America, wasn’t
game. Yet with my mind’s eye I have ever since
been seeing strings of hawking Chows trotting
along the bagmen’s tracks, and doing trade at the
back door with the homestead lessee and the
cocky’s wife. This is, of course, when the
river is too low for steam boat traffic; when it
isn’t, Jimmy Ah Pooh can’t compete with the
river traders—unless he becomes a river trader
himself ; and more unlikely things than that have
happened. Then the local paper will relate that
the junk Chi-Foo is at Pooncarrie waiting for a
rise, and that the captain of the Ha-Nan offered
sacrifice of burnt pig at Bourke before starting
down the river.
A MATTER OF TIME.
C OCKY: “ Why don’t y’r try farmin’? It’s never
too late in th’ day t'r learn.”
Sw AGGIE (who has had some): “ Jes so. An’
it’s never too bloomin’ early in the mornin'
either.”
SOMETHING TO BE THANKFUL FOR.
SHOOTER: “Never had. such hard luck in my
life. Been out all day and shot nothing.”
O THER: “ Hard luck, do you call it? Why, you
very nearly shot me.”
“ Yarrum ” : I’m living here (N.S. W.) in
the midst of alleged tigers and monster snakes;
but I’ve not been scared into insuring my life or
buying a gun, because I’ve seen the whole thing
coming for years. Some time ago I wrote to The
Bulletin about the grog that is manufactured
over the Jamberoo Mountain ; and I stated then
that it was knocking the Jamberoosters balmy.
At that time the tiger-seers would whisper it
gently, but now they have taken to putting their
imaginary beast in the newspapers. The road-
menders who heard
and saw dimly
through the fog must
have been having
an awful night, and
I’d rather any time
face a real Bengal
than one of them
charged with
‘‘poochin,” just
from the still, as
they get it. To fight
against a gallon of
that liquor with no
better weapon than
a shovel would be
madness, and a
pickaxe would
hardly protect you
against a pint of it.
So bad have some of
the swipers become
that they mooch around o’
nights, and crouch and springlike
the tigers they have been seeing in their orgies.
Three years ago I bought a square-face of the
nectar from a fish-vendor for Is. 6d., and a mouths
ful knocked me out worse than a jolt on the point.'
The fish-publican told me he sold gallons of it to
J’s.P. around the South Coast; but he was
“ getting very full of them, as most of them didn’t
part up ” —took “a mean advantage of his posi-
tion.’’ If something is not done to check the evil,
the new hospital at Berry will have to be turned
into an asylum for these big cat beholders. Strange
that the tigers don’t take to killing and eating
the cows.
“ Gip ” : When out without your fly veil or
chest protector the Jamberoo tiger(todate)isamore
pleasant thing to meet than a Monaro tiger cat.
A bushman came in the other day with a surprised
face and a cat skin that measured, from tip to tip,
3ft. 7in. He left it with us, so I know all about
it. It is grey, with spots and stripes very faintly
marked. Old bushmen who have seen it say,
“There’s a bit o’ the tame cat in it. It ain’t
pure tiger.” Anyhow, pure or not, it leapt at the
surprised man’s face from the top of a rock. The
defendant’s whiskers being fortunately free from
tangles, the brute slipped through them and
fastened on his chest. Alive, it must have ap-
peared almost as big as a full-grown
fox, and a very unpleasant circumstance indeed
to have hanging about your neck. With
eyes and teeth glaring, fur upstanding, and claws
working savagely, it fought the man, tearing his
shirt front to shreds, Then, having beaten him
back and reduced him to an astonished gasping
ruin, the beast waded in and felled the dog. It
had a big advantage in claws and was leading on
points when a well directed blow from the partially-
recovered man and the thick part of a gun gave
it the knock-out. The skin has a strange effect on
the house cat, which is a cattess. She.sniffed it
suspiciously the day it came, and since stands off
and growls threateningly at sight of it.
If anybody would offer a prize for slow
combustion, Nimbin, which is up in the big scrub
of the North Coast (N.S.W.), reckons that all
other candidates might as well scratch for the
event. In December of last year a running fire
set a tallow-wood tree as much alight as a
tallow-wood tree ever does get, and the thing
has been burning ever since. It isn’t finished
by a long way, but with favorable circumstances
it reckons to be through its job by the end of the
year. Even Iceberg Irvine would probably com-
bust with more energy than that.
■*♦■*•*
Our black brother is soaking in education
and climbing steadily towards the pinnacle where-
on the plug-hat glitters. At Deniliquin (N.S. W.)
the other day he was awarded two years for forg-
ing and uttering a cheque for £6.
* * * *
* ‘ The Prooshan ” : I have read much
gospel on the tracking of the bee to his nest —to
that elusive little knot-hole high up in the top-
gallant fork of some forest gum. But, so far, I
have not seen any allusion to the tumbler-compass
plan. Take an ordinary tumbler out into Bee
Land, stalk and capture a bee from some nectary,
and then start to walk in any given direction,
your bee in the glass—which rests on a piece of
paper or cardboard on your hand —extended in
front to give the buzzer a good square view of the
prospect. What happens ? The bee poises in
miil-turnbler like a hawk—but that little nose of
bis points ever homeward, and should you pass
his hive-tree he will turn and face the other way.
It sounds tall, but he who knows the life-practices
of this marvellous industrial exemplar will not be
surprised at a further proof of the insect’s wonder-
ful homing instinct.
» * ft 9
“Old Ned”: Be the old warrior (B.
16/9/’O9) who pushed his barrow, half a ton of pro-
visions, and his son from Charters Towers to the
Lancefield potato fields in Victoria. In the town-
ship of Cloney, on the Goulburn (Victoria), there
is another such tough old hero. He landed in
Tassy as a boy, and was engaged breaking-in
horses. In those days riders were never thrown
from their horses. He used to be glued and
lashed to the saddle. He was riding a wild filly
in the bush one day, and it started bucking with
him. So fiercely did it buck that the girth-straps
and lashings burst, and the filly broke the
warrior’s leg and landed him in the fork of a tree,
still fast to the saddle. With his broken leg he
was unable to extricate himself, and there he re-
mained for three weeks before he was found. He
then had only sufficient strength to wave his
hands and keep the crows from pecking
out his eyes. Coming over to Victoria he fed a
thresher for 42 consecutive seasons, and only
went through the drum once. He was patched up
although he had 27 broken legs —I should say he
had a leg broken in 27 places. Ribs did not count
in those days. However, when fixed up he
COAL-MINE PROPRIETORS' TOPHET.
REPORTUS: “ What are they striking for? Aren't
their working conditions easier than those
they enforced upon earth ?”
SEETOUS: "Oh, yes, they admit that; hut the
coal dust on the lungs has a habit of becoming
red-hot.”
seemed to be three-cornered. The following
season he was repairing the innards of the same
thresher during lunch time. The driver was
drunk, and did not. miss the old Bonaparte for the
time. He blew the whistle and started things
going before the old chap had time to get off the
shakers, so there he had to remain. He spent
three solid hours on the shakers, battling with
straw and dust, until the machine was stopped
for dinner. He crawled out without a scratch,
but what he said only those who heard him will
remember —no one dared to repeat his observa-
tions. On another occasion he was prospecting in
the Buffalo Ranges, and was lost for nine days
without water. He wandered aimlessly about till
he found his strength giving way. Kangaroos
were fairly numerous, and he knew that with the
kangaroo lay his salvation. So he waylaid an old
man ’roo and jumped on his back. Away went
man and ’roo for the nearest watercourse.
That ’roo took him seven miles (he could
tell the distances-by his watch) right through
Stephenson-street in Cloney, to the bridge over
the Goulburn. By this time the old warrior had
his knife out, and as the ’roo leaped off the bank
to the water he cut the animal’s throat. The
hero’s life was saved; he had a good drink and
swam out. The ’roo didn’t. Same old perj—l
mean warrior—has lived in a four hundred-gallon
tank for the past two years, and is earning 20s.
per week carting wood into Cloney with a horse
and dray. Tom Curly, the punt man, can verify
the foregoing. If there is anything else you want
verified he will do it too. Tom is a great
verifier, and as a corroborator he has no equal.
SANDRINGHAM.
(A mad song for three voices.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sandringham is down the Bay,
fringed by ti-tree cool,
Where the sea airs all the day
Tempt the boys from school.
All the picnics of the town
Seek the ti-tree shade ;
Road and railway bring them down
Child and man and maid.
Sandringham ! Sandringham 1
Picnics come by train and tram,
Bringing hop beer and cake and jam
To Sandringham.
Ti-tree aisles, all green and cool,
Calling the truants away from school,
Eat all the sandwiches made of ham,
Flirt in the ti-tree with Lily and Sam ;
Mother wheels baby along in the pram
At Sandringham.
Some drive down in motor-cars,
Some go in the van ;
All the ti-tree very gay
To love-sick maid and man.
Where the half-moon of the bay
Marks the long road’s course,
All enjoy the holiday,
All except the horse !
Sandringham 1 Sandringham !
The weary van-horse murmurs “ Damn !”
And wishes picnics came by tram
To Sandringham.
Poor horse, working all the year—-
Picnics cause him many a tear.
They overload him—they squeeze and cram,
And canvas bulges and tailboards slam ;
Quite fifty-two in the van they jam
At Sandringham.
Beer is in the basket,
Tins of salmon, too ;
Very healthy appetites
Have these lovers true ;
When they’ve eaten all they can,
Drunk hop beer and stout,
Love dictates the dalliance—
They throw the food about.
Sandringham ! Sandringham !
The lovers who journey by train and tram
Dissemble by pelting- each other with jam
At Sandringham.
Lovers so shy that they’re dumb as wood,
Making love clumsily—throwing food —
Milj.v and Lily, and Saul and Sam,
Evidence passion by throwing ham
Sandwiches, pineapple, cake and jam
At Sandringham.
Accordeon and wjlistle
Invite them' to the dance ;
(The discords in the ti-tree
Soon banish all Romance).
“ Kiss-in-the-ring” till nightfall
Makes loud the belted park ;
“ Forfeits ” and “ Hunt-the-slipper
(Loud scuffl.ngs in the dark)
Sandringham ! Sandringham
By railway and road —by motor and tram—
Some infantile picnickers take the pram
To Sandringham.
Dancing and kissing beneath the moon—
Wishing that picnics could come again soon—
And nothing is left but the bits of ham
That dirty i he glasses ; the stains of jam
That were brought in the morning by train
and tram
To Sandringham.
See the quiet lovers —
Very rare are they—
Gentle in the beauty
Of the bush and bay ;
Hiding from the noisy crowd—
Self-made Paradise
There is ; all their vows are vowed
In each other’s eyes.
Sandringham ! Sandringham !
Leaving the howling of Sal and Sam-
Deaf to the noisy, shunning the sham
At Sandringham.
Larrikin noises die on the breeze,
Ever Romance is in the trees ;
Arcady, salad and cold roast lamb.
Next year that couple will want a pram !
Unless they bring baby down by the tram
To Sandringham.
VICTOR lA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Wolfe's
ydinapps
A PURE. SPIRIT, SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
WRISTLET
ARE THE
LATEST
RAGE.
They have come
to stay.
%
WATCHES
Reliable Watches,
15 jewels, in the
new Expanding-
Gold Bracelets,
from £5/5/- up-
wards. Set with
Pearls, £ll/11/.
WHY?
Fashion’s decree of “no
pocket. ” calls for some safe
way to carry a watch —
They have a very handsome appearance-
They are distinguished looking.
WE MAKE THE BRACELETS. We set them with Diamonds, with Pearls, with Turquoises.
We sell only reliable Lever Watches at bedrock prices. SEE our large stock of Jewelled Case Watches.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,"
23 Hunter Street
“ Gippslander ” : Be “ Jimmie Pannikin ”
on snake drowning (B. 21/10/0!)). As n
native of the Mitchell Valley, North Gippsland,
where old man floods used to be as regular as the
pumpkin crops/ I have some experience of the
flood-time policy of snakes. A flood on the winter-
ward side of spring was a good thing for the
farmers but a bad arrangement for the snakes,
TO GOOD TO BE LOCALLY GROWN.
VISITOR: "Those look nice kanyaroos you have
got in there."
ILLITERATE NATIVE: "Oh, yes, these is real good
uns. I think the boss himported them all
from the Hold .country”
if one could judge by the fact that we dis-
covered them, nosy, and again, when the waters had
subsided, very much dead, or atr least exhibiting
all the conditions that sooner or later follow death.
Bound a particularly fine black (red-bellied) one
one day. Thought his position a bit strange till I
came nearer. Didn’t think any more about it
then—too busy wishing dead snake smelt like
something else than dead snake. If the wet came
in late spring it was bad for the farmers and good
for the snakes, for they simply (having finished
their winter sleep) skipped for the hills, and hotly
contested with two-legged and other spectators
the best positions from which (o view the panorama
of semi-submerged Gliow huts and other peculi-
arities of Father Mitchell in flood-time.
THE RETORT
CHEERFUL.
L ADY: “ What would it be to take us, young
man ?”
FACETIOUS PHOTORAPHER: “ Something awful."
“Snell” : Let me tell you the story of
Brown. I knew him first as a fervent anti-
gambling agitator who ran an agency business
during the week, and broke out on the Yarra
banks and on the sea sands on Saturday after-
noons and Sundays. Brown as a moral reformer
was distinctly a specialist. He did not touch the
curse of drink, and had nothing to allege against
the social evil or the cigarette habit, but he was
a demon against horse-racing and betting. Then
he fell out of my ken for a time ; but I struck
him on the course last Caulfield Cup day. He was
wearing a rather large thing in checks, also a
field glass, and had the jaunty air of a rare old
sport. I ventured to reproach Brown as an un-
blushing backslider, reminding him that his
fervent asseverations against belting had put me
off a good thing more than once. “ I meant it,”
said Brown. “I was thoroughly in earnest. Ko
man was more bitter against betting than I was
then. In point of fact, old fellow, I never once
got on to a winner those days !”
The stoat and the weasel were nearly being
unloaded on this suffering country as rabbit-de-
stroyers; they would have been, only
Maori land tried them first and found jt hat
it had merely /added another pair of pests
to the national collection. The immigrants
certainly devoured the rabbit with com-
mendable energy ; but they also;chewed
up young lambs and played : senile Henry
with domestic poultry and the native birds,
who haven’t got the useful knack of sleep-
ing with one eye open. Ou receipt of this
intelligence the N.S.W. State Parliament
last week decided that it would just con-
tinue oil in the old rut and try to keep the
rabbit family down with the poison-cart
and the trapper, The reckless person who
fiddles with the delicate; thing called
“the balance of Nature,” and wants to
import Pest No. 94 to eat Pest No, 93, and
afterwards to set 95 on 94’s track, is
liable eventually to have everything eaten
up and packed into one immense: stum-
miclt. The time might come when De-
stroyer No. 90 —some immense and hairy
beast—would snuffle round among gtass-
groWn cities for Pest No. 1, and finally
discover it talking to -it-self on the benches
of some State Legislature. And when
the member... for Hullabaloo had been
swallowed, Destroyer No. 96, having
nothing else to consume, would lie down
on' the floor of the House and snore heavily
till Doom cracked, and the roof of the Uni-
verse fell in with a crash.
“ Janor ” : Black brother’s cuteness is
always of the half-baked, deacon fused sort. Here’s
a typical case. Our party .in N.Q. had a Combo
horsetailer who, lilce many of his kind, had some
love for a gun. When in permanent camp one of
his privileges was the occasional use of a muzzle-
loading fowling-piece which was handed him with
one charge (shot). The gun was always returned
discharged, but no game resulted. One evenin a
flock of wild geese flying over the camp tempted
one of the miners, but instead of using his Win-
chester he took a pot shot with the old muzzle-
loader. The gun missed fire, and examination
showed that there was an obstruction which defied
the ramrod. As Binghi was the last user, he was
called oti to explain things. His “pidgin”
panned out something like this. He'd fired all
the charges he’d been given at old-man wallaroo.
, Shot no good for old-man wallaroo ; bullet would
fetch him. Melted lead stolen from tea chest-
make bullet same as white fellow. No mould ;so
poured incited lead into gun barrel. And he
perorated “Baal that plurry bullet jump up;
no plurry good. Yowhi!” The owner of the
gun was annoyed, but didn’t get his hair off. He
was bald.
Harrison O.” : Perhaps I should men-
tion at the outset that I met a friend
whom I had not seen for years, and
we had, a couple of drinks.
However, that is not the
point; what I want is to ask
the help of abo-writers in
supplying me with a name
for a strange animal I saw.
(I mostly had whisky.) It
was about 4gin. long (the
animal, not the whisky) and
6in. wide. In shape it re-
sembled a spasm that had
spent the whole of its pre-
vious life in darkness and
had emerged into the light
only to Vie trampled upon
by a passing camel. (I re-
member the girl behind the
bar told me her name was
Dolly. I thought it a nice
name, and she was a very
pretty girl.) It had stripes
like a tiger and spots like an
elephant, and its eyes were
like two red-hot cinders
that had fallen off the hobs
of Tophet and dropped into
the creature’s empty sock-
ets by accident. Those
eyes seemed to scorch me
botli inwardly and outern-
ally. (There was a red
and green label bearing a
picture of a Highlander in
kilts on the bottle.) It
glode about in a dazed sort
of way, like a convulsion
suffering from somnam-
bulism. It was not one
animal ; to me it seemed
j to Vie a combination of all
the multitudinous inhabi-
tants of the animal king-
dom to be met with in a
gallon of Yan Yean water.
It stopped near me, and its
fiery tongue darted out and
stabbed me in the leg just in the place where I
found the crayfish claw sticking in my trousers
this morning. Can any scribe inform me what
sort of animal this was? I think I mentioned
that I met a chap I had not seen for years, and
we had one or two drinks (mine were mostly
whisky).
A SAD COMING TO EARTH AGAIN.
"Great snakes, old boy! Wotcher bin doin'?
Playing football? ”
"No. I to[?]k the girl for a trip in my aeroplane,
and when I proposed she threw me over ."
BACK O’ CAMOOWEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Reynolds, of Brunette Downs, back of Camoo-
weal, who lately lost his horse, and then missed the track,
and was for eight days without water or tucker, writes to
thank manager Lowe, the employees and the black boys
of the station who found him and pulled him through.—
Neivspaper Item.
At the back of Camooweal life is earnest, life is real
(It is mostly froth and shoddy in the cheap and blaring
town);
Towards the waters Gulf-ward flowing, towards the Gate-
way fair and glowing
The Adventurers are marching—bearded heroes, tall and
brown !
Hail the splendid pioneering-, strong Australians north-
ward steering—
Men w'hose hands have blazed the Pathway where the
Nation yet shall tread ;
Fickle Town, that smirks and changes!—far beyond the
furthest ranges,
See the White Men pushing seaw'ard, see the Toilers stride
ahead.
At the back of Camooweal men are brothers, true and
leal—
Men are Fighters, men are Strivers ; Jones the lawyer, fat
and sleek
(Slave of Coke and barren Chitty), travels homewards
from the City
With the man who lives beside him— but they neither nod
nor speak !
Men are paltry, cheap and snobbish, and their ways are
thirty-bobbish—
That’s the City, tawdry City, where the Percies leap and
bound ;
Fat-men, gasping, tram-wards hurry—but beyond the far
Cloncurry
Men are comrades (rood and loyal, and their hearts are
true and sound !
At the back of Camooweal, building up the Land ideal,
Raising up the fearless Nation—strong Republic that
shall be ;
On the road beyond Windorah rides the Builder and Ex-
plorer—
He whose eye hath seen the Danger, w'hi.le the blare of
Smiff, M. P.,
Rising ceaseless, night and morning, moves his soul to
bitter scorning—
Makes the White Man, tramping nor’ward, lift his con-
stant groan and curse ;
He who, whilst the Smiff-mob palters at its cheap, time-
payment altars,
Yearns to drag this living nation from the legislative
hearse!
AT THE BACK OF CAMOOWEAL /—Are we earnest,
true and leal ?
Life , alas! is mostly shoddy in the cheap and noisy
town ;
Towards the Gateway fair and glowing see the Path-
Preparers going —
Time we rose and followed after, time we threw the
tankards down!
Shall the Cheap Things rule for ever, shall ice grip our
Birthright never l
Lo, the White Men bravely marching—see ! they blaze
the Track ahead ;
Hail their splendid pioneering —leave the tote-shop amt
the beering,
Let us rise and follow after with a firm, unswerving
tread !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
THE COWS’ TOILET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Kelsey, of the School of Experimental Farming in
Cincinnati, owner of £15,000 worth of Jerseys, declares in
a report, published in New York, that he has largely in-
creased the quantity and quality of his milk, because the
cows are bathed every day, their teeth are cleaned with a
brush three times daily, and during the hot weather the
animals are protected by linen coats, which keep off the
flies and mosquitoes and prevent them being worried.—
News item.
A faint flush in the sky proclaims the dawn
Of day ; the Cow Slave starts up with a shock
And grabs his pants what time he chokes a yawn—
’Tis four o’cldck !
He staggers out to where his masters wait—
His dull-eyed bovine bosses. In their wrath
They tell him dumbly, “ You’re ten seconds lute—
We want our bath ! ”
The cocky’s gods he washes well and dries,
He shaves, shampoos and scents them, one by one,
• While from afar the angry cocky cries :
“ Wot, ain’t yer done 1
“ Yer til inky niesser, ain’t yer finished yet?
These cows ain’t rubbed and dried, yer lazy yob !
Bring me the tow’l ! Ole Strorberry’s quite wet ! ”
(He chokes a sob.)
“ My Gawd ! if she shud die yer’d best, look hout!
Now rub ’er ’aid, and stow yer blacky row ;
Yer are a boshter sort o’ loafin’ lout
To ’tend a cow.”
The Slave walks off to comb young Blossom's hair,
The while he br >ods how utterly beneath
The god-like cow’s contempt he is. With care
He cleans her teeth.
He shaves the bull and manicures his hooves ;
He dresses him in linen clean and white,
And from his sacred person he removes
Each parasite •
That on him preys. The cocky goes inside
And, loud-voiced, wakens all iiis sleeping ilk :
“ Get up, yer loafers ! ” Out, with pails, they stride,
The gods to milk.
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will oe
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
P. : We hereby deliver your message to the
girl at the country pub who wanted to know' (B. 11/11/’O9)
where she came in:—“You come in thusly : Newcastle
district (12 miles radius from G.P.0.) is first getting a
wages (and conditions) board for your fellow cookesses
and others. The Hotel Employees’Union w'ill then apply
for a similar award covering the Maitland district. I
estimate you will be in that little lot by your talk of
Navvyville. Afterwards further extensions will be made
countrywards. I wish you luck, cooky ! Blast the lib-
f rat-equality crowd that has no time for Hebe and Ohloe !
They are only unionists of a sort!” ...Durban : Might
be understood by a dressmaker. To the common male
herd it is gibberish Dinda : You want half a column
for a matter that should go in eight lines O.A.S.
(Bananaland): You are quite correct. It was McCay, not
Lawson, who followed J. B. Paterson at Castlemai e ...
J. : Nothing remarkable about your friend dreaming
tnat Prince Foote would win. Considering the number
of people who dream about nags and races, it would
be remarkable if somebody now and then didn't dream
that the right horse would win... .Fred Fag : The world
is full of individuals just as casual... .Tahuna: Absurd to
call a force 2u0,0b0 strong "the doyen of the empire.”
Generally, the poem is of the usual old order.... Ve-
ndetta : Don’t care about love-stories told in pseudo-
passionate jumps. ...One Only: “Sin” an unmetrical
effusion Seebee: Verses lack distinction F.R.S. :
Too many vaiieties of inartistic metres and lop-sided
verses in your poem. Also, too much poem Old Fuss:
Not worth any kind of fuss—much less the ss. you suggest.
.. .Memoir : “ A shrug—no seats—please go your way.”...
M. A. Reid : Meditations about Whiskers should be send
to Sydney Telegraph. Its editor, “ Dr.” Ward, has for-
gotten more about whiskers than any other man in Aus-
tralia knows....D.C.R. : No hankering after gushful
“ essays ”by little schoolgirls . .The Wasp : More “ final
samples” sleep with the rest. ..J. E. Swan: Now,
if the lady had swallowed the knife and then
thrown herself violently on her brother and the
gifted narrator and feloniously slain them both,
the episode might have been worth the telling ...
E. Hugo : Even bishops must be wailed about in metrical
verse. Your other thing seems to be by a different hand
and may be used. .Mystic : Trite M. H. Poynter:
Thinking of running ‘‘/ii Memoriam” advertisement
column, like the dailies (shillihg a line, prepaid by poet).
... .A. Llewellyn : Your friend’s absurd doggerel, malign-
ing the late Broken Hill strikers, thrown violently into
George-screet. It just missed a policeman, who went on
in blissful ignorance of his narrow escape from death
Mrs. J. Graham : A stanza of “ Dreaming,” unfettered by
punctuation :
Perhaps in years to come
When in your city home
You will think upon the night before we parted
And the offer that I made in the quietness of the shade
And by your answer I was broken hearted.
F. Hickey: Jargon stupidity politely declined
T. Hannafin : You mustn’t rhyme “shout” with “south ”
or “land” with “hands.” On second thoughts, you’d
better not rhyme at all lota : “ His Revenge ” doesn’t
interest.... W. F. Key: Nobody nowadays cares a rap
about Diogenes or his tub or his lantern or his dirt or
anything which is his Syd S.: “Unconquered,” a
thirstifying dream... A.C.B. : Quite true; we pay for
humorous items. But why send the items without the
humor? George P. : Actor yarn is distressing jingle.
J.A.K. : Tired of new chum’s (1) woes with cattle,
and (2) his adventures in search of a father-in-law, and (3)
his remarks on a long-dead Victorian Parliament. Also,
your whole-souled disapproval of all Melbourne people as
spielers is a foolish circumstance.... J.F. : Verses, mainly
lachrymose, passed out with a sigh. May use lolly ro-
mance.. . .G.S.P. : 0. A. McDonald, 63 Pilt-street, Sydney.
....C.A.O’B: Thanks; but in case the enemy hasn’t
thought of it, we’ll not suggest that further infamy....
R.T. : “ Why does The Bulletin let sore-heads throw cold
water on the L ibor party ? That’s not the way the pluto-
cratic press supports its Little Australian party.” Thank
Heaven the plutocratic press isn’t this paper’s model.
When it is prepared to lie and say that its friend is taking
the right track, when it is convinced that its friend is
taking the wrong track, it will be time for this paper to
die. It. won’t be The Bulletin then any longer
Peri Winkle: Cock-a-doodle parable and lullaby disaster
both dead....0.M.: Jests ancient, and you admit that
even the British work-dodger wouldn’t take your sermon
seriously. . ,D. Nicol: One more line and your “poem”
would have been a sonnet in form. But goodness knows
what must be added before it becomes a poem.. ..C. E.
Moore : Excellent, trite advice couched in prose, chopped
into rhymed lengths Brumby: Hanky and cradle
jingles put to sleep... .H. B.: “Memories of the Sea ” too
painful for publication..... Bay Webb: Both dismal
jocosities ...H.S.K.: “The Man in the Corner” is still
there.... F.: Didn’t know you had any initials... .H.
Goodson : Can’t explain. But in a general way we
don’t profess to reply to paragraphs in this
column. If we did it would run to six columns....
A.M.T. : It may be a new jest, but it looks old enough to
be your grandfather ...James Corridan : “Last Straw”
took fire and was burnt to the ground H.J.L. : Be
calm. There Isn’t room to reply to pars. With them
silence gives consent. If there is enough silence it sig-
nifies dissent. Keep cool H. S. Locke: Doggerel
expressive of your desire to live in a city where you can
bet with real live bookies —the desire of the pigeon for
the rook—cast into outer darkness 4E’s: No use for
inane poem inviting German ladies to qualify for Kaiser’s
alleged offer of £6O for the eighth child.' Besides, he
didn’t offer £6O —only to be its godfather—which is a
K. kind of thing in comparison Something like
W. T. Nelion : No pointsaboutyourcommonplaee lament.
... .E.G.B. : Three little tales from school D. Hindson :
Eileen is now dead ; so it’s no use singing to her any
more. . Chinosky : Criticism of no use to a man who
writes such things as :
She ate the Apple, thus committed sin,
Then tempted man to akin,
and honestly thinks he’s writing poetry .. .Ash C. Brun :
You take an admittedly uninteresting ride, and then
have the gall to describe it for Bulletin readei s ! What
do they want to know about you and your stupid ride?
Nerrin: If the verse were am thing like as good as
the sentiment, “Films before Fighters” would stand a
chance. But it isn’t.... W.O D.: Terror’s Creek, or
Screech, or whatever its name, howling rubbish....
C. N. Lee : Stale and flat.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
XXX : Sketches too feeble to stand, and suggestions
too old to die... .Bigfer : Too obscure a jest . Starting
Brice : Don’t undertake to acknowledge all suggestions.
Those that are accepted are paid for—mostly on accept-
ance and before publication.... Skipper: Don’t care for
your picture of lunatic in bathing costume.... Arabi:
A discouraging little drawing, and not a word to explain
what it’s about.... W.M. : The gag is too weak to sup-
port the picture, and the picture is too weak to support
the gag: so they both fell into the ditch. . Bert Rosling :
Mere picture of boy yawning doesn’t appeal to us.
Other is even worse.


"WOMAN’S REALM.
“Thou art a woman,
■And that Is saying the best and worst of thee.”
Bailey.
The “ School for Mothers,” recently
opened in Cremorne-street, Richmond,
by the committee of the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union, is growing
to be a very successful institution, and
the mothers who attend are finding the
lectures both helpful and interesting. 4
At the last meeting one of the members I
Of tfce committee gave a demonstration -
of what could be done with the tops of
old stockings. As an illustration she
exhibited articles made from 18 stock-
ings, one pair of men’s socks and a pair
of thread elbow-length gloves. The
most elaborate was a “princess”
petticoat for a small girl, two pairs
Of boys’ “knickers,” two boys’
sweaters, one pair of braces, two
pairs of socks (which had been re-
footed), and one singlet.— Argus. i
m We,
lf(e owner °^
tSe •
Platform.—(l) To foster Australian
patriotism under the British Crown;
(2) to preserve Individual liberty and
advocate equal opportunities for all;
(3) to advocate that the Government
should not compete against Privae
Enterprise, but should endeavor to. pro-
mote its growth and development.
iVe
ji^ e
prefa*s
) • Tory beat"; ccbj S+riKc, *nf it* v/,Hi\m f*
2,"? - " : " t\y w'ord ! And xll due -to itfe. of
if/e V/orlCers . i Suppose, !'
Yf I7XS
\jK/e \ DenrrJ /corps
in "Hie. (j3r*imcnv/e£uHf
-forces ' J
viz
A\otoV
N
/^jelbo^^e
I^Under-feKeK. ' A\y wi[ £
Vre fo'ittf m ty^oid
ebidcmicx, &W Iv/cW Collisions
I -accidents, 'but' ]_savy
l me motor Sm^s^ c ' / ' c, y
2" d Well yo*
Know l>o2vTinp C^^ < ' r )t^ e S
ouot^t 4 -to l?e
y^Q"
K<tr-_' bod.es-
xre not” K»w*y* recovered _ J
K-fixrKms th tne-
Motor is ouk Vestfi-iend. "
Mr. W. H. Judkins, who
recently recoyered from a
long illness, on Friday after-
noon had a fortunate escape
from serious injury. Accom-
panied by a friend, he was
riding a motor-cycle along
Burwood - road, Burwood,
when the cycle swerved and
threw him heavily to the
.ground.
*T* *
IW>b Surest' x h«ApclTve
•IH 6 -
NBE %,
Sorest'-oh^Sf^ er vitttr JudKtns il
absolutely necessvy to tfte 0ulldw) will k tb #i s of Conveyance .
TEN MINUTES WITH A DENTIST, AND OTHER MATTERS.


A line of passenger airships will soon be running
regularly between Germany and England. C-<x£&a^
The mall ’plane will atop at
small stations on
being signalled.
Anti here you see a belated passenger trying to catch the Saurkraut Limited
To save time, express trains
will be provided with appliances
for picking up passengers with-
out stopping.
Airships can be
bought now for
£3OO.
IJut I wouldn’t advise you to go in
for them cheap airships. They are
liable to turn turtle and cause a nasty
spill.
Of course, the airscape along the line
of those passenger airships will be
defaced by unsightly advertisements.
v«'\-
./V'c'H
«°v>V
. <& {>®
a $«o v°
< v
<»>•
'V
By-the-bye, it
is not generally
known that the
invention of the modern airship has
been anticipated by some millions of
years. Here is an authentic picture
lof one. It was built during the Middle Oolitic
Period, and was named the RAMPHORYN-
CHUS after its inventor. Compare it /
with existing types.
AIRSHIP ATTACKED DY VULTURES.
—What great head-line possibilities will
incidents like the above supply to the
great daily of the future!
Plying machines may become so cheap
that they will largely supersede goats
as means of locomotion in North Queens-
land, and Incidents of this sort will be
quite common.
Mrs. Mullins (to next-door neighbor):
“I’d thank ye, Mr. Clancy, if ye’d
kape yer hairyplane tol’d up. He’s
cloimed over me back fince agin, and
is ating up me garden.”
Science will be under a heavy debt to this invention.
Here you see a great ornithologist invoking its aid in
robbing birds' nests. Even the flying machine may be
developed to such perfection that it will lay eggs itself.
Who shall say l
t=iOP hi $ ufl T)i7
ct on - J
A PAGE OF AIRSHIPS.
The great reduction in the price of airships is expected soon to make them part of the daily life of the people.
The above is a glimpse of the new era.


GAELI C
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
To H.M. Kin?
Alfonso XIII.
OF table
Sparkles with pure Natural Gas, which distinguishes it
from all waters containing manufactured carbonic acid gas.
To H.M. King
Edward VII.
SKIN COMFORT FREE
For Skin-Tortured Little Ones.
Messrs. R. Towns & Co., 16 Loftus Street, Sydney,
N.S.W., will send on request, post free, to mothers of
skin-tortured infants and children, a generous trial pack-
age of Cutieura, the great skin cure, sufficient to afford
immediate relief in the most distressing forms of infantile
eczemas, rashes, itchings, scalings and crustings of the
skin and scalp, and point to a speedy cure, in the majority
of cases, when all else fails.
No doubt this will be considered strong language by
many mothers who have seen the suffering of their little
ones extend without substantial relief from days into
weeks, weeks to months, and months to years. Added to
this is the ever-present fear that the disfigurations may
become permanent and mar their future welfare. But
positive as is this statement, it is justified by more than
30 years of the most pronounced success throughout the
world, for Cutieura is sold wherever the British flag
floats. Under the benign influence of Cutieura, the itch-
ing and burning of eczema cease; the child falls into a
refreshing sleep, the mother rests and for the first time,
perhaps, in many weeks peace falls upon a distracted
household.
With each free trial package of Cutieura is a 32-page
pamphlet giving full description and treatment for every
form of eczema, as w'ell as other affections of the skin,
scalp, hair and hands.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The letter of the Newcastle mine-owners,
in which they offered a conference on terms
which they knew wouldn’t he accepted, was
signed by one Cant. The only thing wanting
was for Humbug to have signed it also.
PROFESSOR J. LAURENCE RENTOUL,
D.D., who has just celebrated his quarter -
century in Ormond College , Melbourne.
“Horace Gumleaves ” supplies this vig-
nette of \lcLucblan, the Vic. country M.L.A.,
who thinks all women are like Mrs. Caesar—only
more so: —
When “Sr” wrote of the guileless member for Gipps-
land North (B. 4/11/TO), he did not mention the article
of attire which makes him really conspicuous, viz., a
battered old Panama stuck up in front with a hatpin.
The first time I saw Jimmie was at the State Parliament
House in Melbourne, where 1 had been escorted by one of
his Sale admirers. The thing that struck me as most
remarkable about him was his dignity, which he manages
to maintain in spite of his somewhat ramshackle appear-
ance. His singularly low and resonant voice is the voice
of a man who thinks before he rushes into print. I con-
clude either that Janu s’ voice belies him, or else that his
capacity for thinking along certain lines is limited.
James is a simple, hospitable soul, with a weakness for
odd clothing and combustible legislation. His one solid
conviction is that the fellow should marry the girl.
This is a big, busy world, bub some men
manage to evade the hustle of it. James Stevens,
orchardist, lately passed out at Camden (N.S. W.),
aged 94, without ever knowing what it was like to
ride in a train or tram. He never went up in a
balloon either, or used a flying machine. To live
long, live slowly.
Louis Brennan’s mono-rail train is at last
in working order, but be has lingered over it
longer than was expected, with the result that a
heated German—Augustus Seherl—is close on his
heels with a rival invention. Though brilliant in
ideas, Brennan is not reputed as swift in action.
There were three Brennan boys—Pat, Louis and
Mick—at Castlebar (Ireland). They were re-
garded as just ordinary boys, only Pat was con-
sidered the swiftest of the three. He it was who
broke away from the pigs and praties of Erin and
came out here. He became a Victorian school
inspector and a sort of god in the car to the
family, for he sent for Mick and Louis. Mick
took to art, and died in Italy. Louis took to in-
vention, and may do a good deal towards revolu-
tionising the world before he is done. And if that
is so, then Pat will also deserve a niche in the
temple of Fame, for, in a manner of speaking,
he invented Louis.
The Oldest Inhabitant writes :
Ex-Superintendent Bell, of the Sydney police, who was
buried at Waverle.v Cemetery on Thursday of last week,
had an experience as a young constable which resulted in
his leaving the force for a time. When the Sydney
General Post Office was being opened, a special function
in the shape of a conversazione was held at which admis-
sion was by ticket only. Bell had charge of a barrier,
with strict instructions that no one was to be allowed to
pass unless the ticket was forthcoming. A gentleman
who was at all times considered fairly bumptious, pre-
sented himself minus the document, and Bell refused to
pass him. The bumptious one filled the adjacent air with
clamor, and made the welkin ring. The noise attracted
an official, who vouched for the bumptious one
and got him through. He entered full of rage,
and complained to the police authorities that
his dignity was hurt through an ordinary constable
having refused him admission, and Bell got beans. The
bumptious gentleman was afterwards a Justice of the
Supreme Court. A somewhat similar incident occurred
in the life of Alfred Stephen when Lieutenant-Governor.
There was a big function at Parliament House, and Mac-
quarie-street, at the south end, was closed. In a cab
came the Lieutenant-Governor from his house in College-
street. He was blocked, and he stood up in the vehicle
and harangued the policeman who had stopped him.
That policeman got rats. Beans and rats were about the
only things a painstaking officer did get in those days.
That little band of Scotch fishermen who
pervaded these parts a while ago, and proceeded
(after much talk) to revolutionise the trade in
shark and schnapper, seems to get rid of its bad
luck with much difficulty. On its first expedition,
after it had settled on S. Aus. as its home,
the whole caboose was wrecked bv a storm ; and
now one of the members of the almost-forgotten
expedition has been up at a Melbourne court, and
is to be given a chance to explain to a jury some
obscure things in connection with a cheque.
Ryan, who got the late Premier Price’s
seat in the S. Aus. Assembly,, says he could
neither read nor write when he was 14 years old,
and that he learnt to read by spelling out “The
Story of Dick Turpin.” Now he spends his
spare time in learning big words and their mean-
ings, with the object of paralysing his fellow
legislators.
Concerning a political K.C.
Pilcher, K. 0., father of th“ N.S.W. Bar, is back in
Sydney, after one of his many visits to the Cold Country.
He follows the Salomons habit of sea-voyaging between
briefs, and, in straw hat and cut-away coat, he carries
himself as lightly as he did when first admitted to the
Bar 42 years ago. Salomons, whom he succeeded as
“ father,” was his senior by six years ; and he himself is,
exactly to a day, three years senior to Cecil Bedford
Stephen, unanimously regarded in legal circles as
“the gentleman of the N.S.W. Bar.” Pilcher has
argued the point before Chief Justices Stephen,
Martin and Darley, and carried conviction to the minds
of Justices Milford, Wise, Hargrave, Cheeke, Faucett, W.
M. Manning, Windeyer, Innes, Matthew Stephen, Owen,
Deffeil, Foster, C. J. Manning, G. B. Simpson, Cohen,
A. H. Simpson, Walker, Pring, Street and Sly, in long-
succession. He once refused the Chief Justiceship and
frequently a Justiceship. But he seldom refused
a brief if it was marked the right way, and no
member of the Bar has been luckier in that respect.
But success never changed quiet, ljriassun’ing de-
meanor towards all and sundry. A bib of a Tory in
politics, he represented West Macquarie from January,
1875, till November, 1882, when he granted himself nine
years’ leave of absence. Parkes nominated laina to the
Council in 1891. He only took his politics warmly when
Federation looked imminent, and then, with Jack Want,
Salomons, H. C. Hangar and a few other old survivors of
the Cabbage-Tree Mob, he hurled visi prnis points at
the Draft Bill and the Amended Bill, sat on platforms
with red-flag Socialists, and harangued crowds with
Domain iconoclasts. When the numbers went up, he got
out of active politics and has been just a plain M.L.C.
ever since.
A few words by the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Wedded, “at Coombing Park, Carcoar (N.S.W.), on
October 12, by the Reverend J. Bate, Lionel John,
youngest son of the late John Hood, M.L.C., of Mel-
bourne, to Evelyn Frances, youngest daughter of the late
W. F. Whitney, of Coombing Park, Carcoar.” There is a
volume of old Australian history wrapped up in this little
announcement. For instance, Coombing Park was the
original home of the Icely family, which settled there in
the first quarter of last century. Thomas Icely, M.L.C.,
came to N. S. Wales in the last years of Governor Mac-
quarie’s reign. In 1828 he became a J.P., a position of
some importance in those days, when the publican and
the butcher were not thought of in a judicial capacity.
In 1830 he married Miss Rotherv, a daughter of F. M.
Rother.v, of Cleefden, Carcoar, where the Rotherys still
hold out. In 1842 Mr. Icely was nominated to the' Legis-
lative Council. In 1843 his wife died, leaving him two
sons and three daughters. His second wife was Miss
Bartlett, who gave him a son and a daughter. Mr. Icely
held a seat in the Legislative Council until his death in
February, 1874. Coombing Park in the days of the Icelvs
was an open house. Some of the finest racing cattle
were to be seen in the loose boxes, and a few years ago
the names of some famous stud hero might he read on the
door of each stall. In the early ’sixties Mr. Icely left
Coombing and went to live at Greystanes, and in the late
’sixties left there and went to live in John Macarthur’s old
home, Elizabeth Farm, Parramatta, where he died.
Coombing Park became the property of Frank Whitney,
of Cobb and Co., the partners in which were James
Rutherford, Walter Hall, Frank Whitney and another.
Mr. Whitney married a comely girl, a Miss Leeds, of
Bathurst, who has developed into a handsome matron.
John Hood, M.L.C., of Melbourne, was a chemist in
Elizabeth-street, near the post office. He had two sons by a
first marriage—one a chemist, the other the present Justice
of the Supreme Court. The Coombing Park bridegroom
must be the son of a second wife, a handsome dark-haired
girl, said to be the daughter of an Irish earl. It was in
Mr. Hood’s apothecary’s shop that the noted Dr. Beaney,
in the late ’fifties, had his first billet. He prescribed for
the roving digger and the bullocky who paid hurried
visits to Melbourne, drank heavily, swallowed a heap of
medicine, got married and hurried back to the wilds.
The digger of those days went through the marriage
ceremony every time he visited Melbourne.
A WASHING OF SOILED FREETRADE LINEN.
Sydney Telegraph has of late been knocking" splinters off its old Freetrade joss, and now declares the
N.S.W. Freetrade League to be an illegitimate and bogus affair.
GRANNY ELEGRAPH: “ Gerrout! Yer oughter be ashamed of yerself, takin’ a name as don’t
belong to yer.”
FOREIGN TRADE LYDY : “I ’ opes as oiv I’m true to my old lore , anyhow; an’ I don’t want no
divorce , nor docs I furor bigamy by fusing with Black an’ White Tories like some
people as I could mention.”
Died at Maryborough (Q). on Noveml er
13, aged 87, Charles Johnson, who was head-
master of the King’s School, Parramatta (N.S.W.),
53 years ago. When Queensland was cut adrift
from the Ma State half a century ago, he was one
of three teachers who went north to lay the
foundation of the Bananaland school system.
Died m Sydney, last week, Richard Rick-
ford, master mariner. A short time ago his fine
big steamer Wiapara went ashore near Moreton
Bay (Q.), through the fault of the pilot. The
vessel was saved by the skill and resource of the
master, but was badly mauled, and was brought
to Sydney to be practically re-bottomed in Morr s
Dock. After that, the skipper worried himself
into insomnia. His medical adviser gave him 10 1
tabloids to induce sleep, and the unfortumi e
skipper, instead of spreading them over a month
or two, took 85 in one lot. That ended his
troubles.
Young Burnett Gray, who came to Vic-
toria from Westralia some two years ago, has
lately succeeded in floating a couple of gold-mine
specs, on the Melbourne market, and is dreaming
of wonderful results. As a journalist, a schnapper
hunter and a tracker of lead and copper lodes on
the N.-W. coast, Burnett Gray is well known in
Westralia. His forebears were busy men in the
Crown colony. His paternal granddad, the
pioneer of democracy thereabouts, stood for the
first Parliament. His other granddad, who
landed in W. A. in 1829, and died only three years
ago, opened up the trade with Java and the East-
Indies, building his own ships the while. Having
been born a trier, Burnett Gray is likely to strike
luck somewhere else if he doesn’t strike it in the
bowels of the earth.
“Spring” pictures something of a
curiosity :
John Brown, though lie doesn’t race under that name,
is the owner of Prince Foote, the champion 3-year-old of
the season ; owner also of the boss tug boat of Australia,
the Champion, hero of many a long tow ; owner too of
the boss coal mine in Australia (Minmi); and, in addition
to all this, his enemies say that John Brown owns the
Australian mean-man belt. He is the 50-year-old son of
old Alec Brown, who was the first to smash the A. A. Co.’s
savage monopoly in Newcastle, and consequently was the
first to give an impetus to the grimy industry.
Unlike most sons of successful fathers, John has proved
himself a hard, firm, keen, enterprising offspring. Yet
if someone rose up and moved that John Brown, bachelor
millionaire, has had more to do with the slack, neglected,
backward condition of the city of Newcastle than anv
other inanin it, the voting would probably astonish Brown.
Yet he has good points. When I first looked around
Newcastle I picked oufc a six-foot, active, clean,
alert mm, dressed in an blue serge suit
and wearing a cropped grey -beard, swinging his
arms and body' through the business streets—the
brightest, quickest, keenest-looking man I had seen
in a horribly sleepy city. It was John Brown.
But then I gradually heard whispered tales of the mean-
ness of John Brown, and I began by' degrees to involun-
tarily look upon him as Newcastle’s worst citizen. His
native city, which his father helped to make, and which
greatly' helped to make him, sadly wants the spur of
John’s wealth and his brains ; but John takes no interest
in such things. He spends his days superintending his
business, and many' of his evenings leaning up against
the supports of the post office conversing with cronies.
Ex-Premier Daglish (W.A.) will complete
his 43rd year on Nov. 18. Archbishop O’Reily
(8.A.) will be 03 on the 19th. Other birthdays
this month include Dr. “Cremation” Creed
(N.S.W.), 07 on the 21st; Aeting-C. Justice
Simpson (N.S.W.), 71 on the 22nd ; Senator Dob-
son. 08 on the 24th ;. ex-Senator Plavford, 72 on
the 25th ; Statistician Johnston (Tas.) 05, Dr.
Ramsay Smith (President of the Health Board of
S. A.) 50, on the 27th.
CLOSED DOWN.
Picture illustrative of the far-reaching effects of
the universal coal-strike when it comes.
William Judkins has returned to the lime-
light in Melbourne. Though not fully recovered
after a recent bike accident, he gave the first
lecture of his campaign the other Sunday, and
hinted that Lai's and her contemporary, Mr.
Public-house, must not expect to carry on much
longer. They have enjoyed unusual freedom
during his enforced absence, and cannot hope for
any further consideration from him. He will
therefore blot them out very shortly, even as the
prawn slew the whale.
AN EXHORTATION FOR PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a likelihood of the Chapman-Alexander Mission
returning to Australia.— Daily Paper.
Can nought be done? Am Ito know
Another spell of pain and woe?
Can’t they be stopped their purpose from achieving?
Will they not leave me quiet and unbelieving?
Is there this need you should again
Disturb my peacefulness, just when
I was engaged in blissfully forgetting
You and your clownish methods of soul-netting ?
Had I not cause to swear at you
When last you came ? If you but knew
How hard I cursed you 1 Yes, and I was sceptical
Often, as I read of your receptacle
For coins—how it was passed each day
Around—just so ! —to pay your way.
(Just here I’ll add, in case I’m misconstrued,
I gave not zack nor tray. I was too shrewd.)
In all sincerity I plead
With you to ponder if you read
These lines. I know enough—Hell and damned souls,
Glory songs and blood and sin and Heaven’s goals—
Of what you preach ! I here request
That you will give Australia best,
That you will let us live, without commenting
On us and on our need for swift repenting.
I feel that there is need for you
In Galilee or Timbuctoo,
Not here. Your mournful wails disturb our laughter.
Don’t come ! Meet us instead in the Hereafter !
VICTORIA.
W.B.


m
f
i
(f'tfr S.
*1
4
&
G
as
m
/ 't>
JG
7;
%
r
7
j r i
/
(\
>.
V
/A
✓<
W
c
.
4 Not a taxi to be Had! Let us smoke a
4 THREE CASTLES * CIGARETTE! ”


“I have used Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera
and Diarrhoea Remedy, and speak from experi-
ence,” says Mr. F. Cchmaka, Padding-ton, W.A.
“I have never known it to fail in an attack of
colic, cramps or diarrhoea, so always recommend
it to my friends and customers. To my mind, no
mother should be without a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy in the
house. Many people are prejudiced against
patent medicines, but if they only knew the
splendid qualities of this one, it would go a long
way to wear down that prejudice.”*
Walter Bradley & Go,
284- George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining’ Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed *by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous .element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price—3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDGWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Money Back if not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS 8 CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE.
Baby s Rash Cured.
“My twin baby boy was covered with an obsti-
nate rash,” writes Mrs. M. Wilson, of 132 Little
SiminondsStreet, Newtown, Sydney. “I rubbed
Rexona Ointment on night and morning, and the
rash soon healed, leaving the skin smooth and
clean.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
BEEF TEA AND
INVALID FOODS.
Dismal Diet of a Woman
With Indigestion
♦
She Cured Herself by the Tonic
Treatment Which is Giving
Splendid Results.
All those forms of stomach trouble such as
weight on the chest and pains after eating, ful-
ness in the throat, belching of wind that often
presses on the heart, depression of spirits and sick
headache indicate that there is something the
matter with the stomach. It isn’t strong enough
to digest food. It needs to be made stronger.
When it is stronger the indigestion and other
troubles will be cured. Briefly that’s the way to
cure stomach trouble—make the stomach stronger.
As a stomach tonic Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills can
be recommended with much confidence. Firstly
for scientific reasons, because the processes of
digestion are controlled by the blood and nerves,
and Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are widely known
for their blood-making qualities. There’s the
other important reason—they have cured hundreds
of cases of indigestion. After all, it is results that
count. The case given below is an interesting
instance of how they cure.
“I had felt myself running down in health for
some months,” said Mrs. W. B. Martin, New
Zealand Gully, Southern Cross, W.A. “My
appetite ceased altogether, and presently I could
only take beef tea and invalid food. I couldn’t
keep solid food on my stomach. I fell away in
flesh till I was a mere shadow, and my face lost all
color. I couldn’t stand up for long, I grew so
dreadfully weak, and besides I’d get such dizzy
turns, as jf everything was spinning round me,
and horrible ringing noises came in my ears. At
night I would hardly close my eyes. All the time
I would be tossing and turning, and was bothered
with a dull, tender ache in my right side. I was
treated at the hospital, but only got a little relief.
When I came home I wasn’t fit for the least
exertion. I simply had to lie about the livelong
day. At last through a friend of my husband I
made up my mind to give Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills a trial. The first box did me good, it gave
me a little appetite and my food agreed with me.
The second box did me even more good, and I felt
Strength and energy coming back to me. I kept
on steadily taking three pills a day. The ache in
my right side got less and I began now to eat
quite heartily. I put on flesh and got some color
in my face. I kept on with Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills till every ache and pain had gone. Now I
can get about as briskly as ever.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are good for any com-
plaint that a supply of rich red blood is good for,
but one needs to be careful to get the genuine, as
substitutes sometimes offered are useless. They
are sold by most chemists and storekeepers, price
2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d., or if they can-
not be obtained locally will be sent post free on
receipt of price by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.*
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
•281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE FUSED FEDERAL SHOW.
The troupe appears at the end of the second act
(the Financial Agreement Act) to receive the
applause of the audience.
The N.S.W. coal trouble had hardly com-
menced before the Sydney Telegraph was implor-
ing the miners to get swiftly back to work,
otherwise the stoppage might leild to the opening
up of rival mines in Victoria.. It was so like
the Telegraph. It has not much objection to
Chow or Japanese coal, but Victorian coal is just
plain horrible !
Annually, whilst the M.L. Parliament is
in session, big squads of Maoris settle themselves
in the capital. This year there is more than the
usual collection of the brown man knocking about
the legislative camp. The Maori loves the law
rapturously. He loves to meddle with it, and his
meddling with it has steeped him in difficul-
ties almost unsolvable. T’other day, some 200 of
him besieged the sanctum of Native Minister
Jimmy Carroll. The same old
grievances grievances upon
whichold age has brought
long white whiskers—were
once again picturesquely
lowered into Jimmy’s big
brown ear. Kahupukoro, an
old warrior with much tattoo,
opened the korero. “We
come here to-day,” he said,
“to have the tears wiped
away from our eyes, those
tears which, ever since the
beginning of our difficulty,
have continued to fall upon
our cheeks. I stand before
you to-day the last man, as
it were, of my people, for I
really represent those who
have gone to the other side.
We come along to place our
grievances before you. Those
grievances, beginning about
the year 1880, have continued
with us until 1909. We
come here now to ask you to
give us back the lands lying
between Waitotara and the
White Cliffs. . . For three
hours Jimmy Carroll lis-
tened to the quaint babbling
of his kin. Then he waxed
serious, babbled a little in
reply, and finally opening a
drawer in his desk, tipped the
petitions in, to await their revival
next year, as usual.
Private Enterprise is an im-
provident, shiftless substance, after
all. Within a week of the start of the coal
trouble, most of the private fuel consumers
in Melbourne—iron founders, jam-factors, etc.
—were wearing long faces, and in a fortnight
many were so short of supplies that they had
to stop. But the Railway Department, with
its enormous consumption of 1000 tons a day, had
enough in hand to carry on for two months, while
even the Board of Shirks had enough for five
months.
Johnson, M.H.R., made a bad break
during the discussion on the Northern Territory
Bill. He forgot all about the necessity for keep-
ing up a decent pretence that the proposed curly
transcontinental line was intended to travel all
the eastern States and end at Melbourne ; and he
talked of it openly as a line from Port Darwin to
Sydney, and nothing more. And that decent pre-
tence about the extension through western N.S.W.
to Melbourne was so necessary as a bait for Vic-
torian votes.
The S.A. Parliament will be prorogued
about December 4, and immediately afterwards
Premier Peake and ex-Premier Butler are to
formally fuse. It is expected that the three
Jonahs to go overboard into the whale of political
rejection will be Attorney-General Mitchell,
Lands Minister Coombe and Honorary Minister
Addison. M.L.O. Then Butler will be Treasurer,
Hermann Horn burg Attorney-General, and some
other Legislative Councillor will come in. Peake
will be Premier and Minister of Education.
“ Groper ’ : The lack of industrial legisla-
tion in Tasmania, and a general desire on the part
of Tory politicians to have none,
is responsible for the constant drift
of the best workmen away from
the island. The slaughtermen at
Hobart are the last to move out.
They have been getting the lovely
wage of £2 a week, while those in
Melbourne have received from £4 to
£5. The abattoirs started off by
paying £3 a week. The men didn’t
grumble at that, but the boss got
tired of drawing big cheques or
something, and in one go wages
were cut down to £2 10s. Long-
suffering Labor said things, but
kept on at the reduced rate, and
was just beginning to get used to
the 50 bob when another drop to
40s. arrived. This was the end.
The best men packed up for Mel-
bourne, where good billets are
awaiting them. The chance for
industrial legislation in Tasmania
looks pretty blue, unless the Aus-
tralian Government steps in.
In the N.S.W. Upper House James Ashton
denounced Wade’s Closer Settlement Bill root
and branch, and then voted for the second read-
ing. Joseph Carruthers declared it to be the
most outrageous measure he had ever met, and
then didn’t vote at all. The Bill passed its second
reading by the casting vote of the President.
Now what is the exact legislative value of Jimmy
and Joe?
“ Ash B.” : The notion of making the pro-
visions of the N.S.W. Closer Settlement Bill
apply only to estates which are adjacent to towns
with a population of 600 or upwards, is much like
puttingdihe cart before the quadruped. The chief
trouble with a town which has the misfortune to
be practically surrounded by large estates, is that
its growth is impeded owing to the sad circum-
stance; yet under Wade’s proposed law, if the
big landlords can squeeze the town so tight that
it can’t muster 600 people, they are rewarded by
being allowed to remain undisturbed.
The Tasmanians are a modest lot. Local
Assembly members draw only £lOO a year at pre-
sent ; and the other day, when something like
hard necessity drove a Labor man to table a
motion in favor of a rise, he fixed the new figure
at £l5O a year. By about two to one the House
persuaded itself that it was worth the extra
money ; so the Tasmanian M.H. A. is looking for-
ward to being a Devil of a Fellow on £2 17s. 7d. a
week, paid monthly.
It is sometimes the privilege of the boss-
compositor when he makes up the paper to heap
scorn on the lordly editor. Last Saturday the
Sydney Telegraph had a sort of cartoon repre-
senting a fat, prosperous, Freetrade John Bull
scornfully rejecting the advances of a stunted,
ill-fed-looking Protectionist. And right along-
side was this description of the fat, prosperous,
Freetrade J. Bull:
Rural England is very beautiful and fascinating to the
casual stranger. . . . But it has its disappointments. It
is often cruel. Its people are frequently weedy from ex-
cessive in-breeding; poverty is too often rife. . . . It
holds millions who by an iron law are unable to advance.
You meet men going out into the fields to work for
12s. 6d. and 15s. a week, and who lodge and feed them-
selves. To an Australian it is strange to see a farm-
laborer walking to his work carrying his food with him. In
a wet harvest, such as this has been, their plight is often
little better than starvation. You stay at cottages, and
your excellent host scours the village to get j'ou decent
food, and the hutter is seldom fit to eat, and the meat is
of the worst that grows. And the cottagers themselves
will, despite the cheap and excellent colonial supply on
the market, have meat only at the week ends. . . . But
they don’t protest. They have been used to work and
struggle, and live chiefly on vegetables. ... In your
mind you pick them up, full of work and thrift as they
are, and put them down in a kinder land that you know
across the water.
They have free imports of cheap meat, but they
haven’t the money wherewith to buy the cheap
meat. So “in your mind you pick them up” and
dump them down in a kinder land which has got
Protection.
The following letter has come to hand:—
To the Editor, The Bulletin.
Sir, —In last week’s issue you published an article de-
nouncing me as a Tory, and an opponent of liberal legis-
lation. The following is a list of some of my legislative
efforts affecting social conditions:—
New South Wales Parliament.
Children’s Protection Act.
Divorce Amendment Act, and providing for judicial
separation.
Children’s Protection Act Amendment Act.
Bills to grant municipal franchise to tenants ; to abolish
literary tests for persons seeking to practise in Courts of
Law ; to provide improved conditions for persons await-
ing trial, or on whose behalf points of law have been re-
served ; and the Removal of the Disability of Illegitimacy.
That the Legislative Council did not pass the Bills in
question was no fault of mine; but some have since
become law.
Federal Parliament.
First resolution of the Federal Parliament in favor of
Old-Age Pensions.
First resolution in favor of State Industrial Accident
Insurance.
Resolution to recoup the unfortunate Harvester Em-
ployees their legal expenses in seeking to maintain
the new Protection.
Bill to liberalise the Old-Age Pensions Act in re the
possession of property by pensioners.
Bill to liberalise conditions in re appeals under the
Public Service Act.
Bill to establish a Court of Criminal Appeal.
The Federal Parliament offers small scope for legislative
effort by private members.
In addition to these matters I have given a consistent
support to measures of a democratic character no matter
by whom introduced.
The list is compiled from memory, and does not
exhaust the record of my efforts in humane and demo-
cratic legislation, but it surely suffices to rebut the
charge made against me.
Yours, etc.,
Jno. C. Neild.
The list which Mr. Neild supplies isn’t much to
show for 24 years of political life, nor i§ it much
to set against 24 years of anti-Federalism and
anti-Australianism, and association with a party
which seeks to destroy Australian industries and
starve but Australian workmen for the benefit of
the importer. As regards his statement that he
has given “ a consistent support ” to democratic
measures, the trouble is that a great part of the
time Mr, Neild doesn’t seem to know a demo-
cratic measure when he sees it. The fact that it
would have been a democratic idea to be
honest and above-board in the way of keeping
faith with the other States over the original
Federal agreement doesn’t seem to have occurred
to him even yet.
THE PROUD NON-UNIONIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir, —As one native-born who has completed 46 years of
(I trust) honorable service in various positions as farm
boy, orchardist, tradesman, clerk, salesman and civil
servant, and kept free from the galling shackles of union-
ism, may the privilege of voicing my opinions on the pre-
sent crisis be granted me by your courtesy?—D. T
Correspondent.
I started as a farmer’s boy
In Eighteen-Sixtv-Two,
When I was young and full of joy,
And next to nothing new.
I trudged behind the old plough-horse
For wages that were small;
But still I carolled, for, of course,
I rarely thought at all.
I rose before the break of day,
As a good orchardist,
And until starlight worked away.
1 was no unionist!
Though bright and early rose the grub.
Still earlier I rose,
And, standing on an upturned tub,
Dropped poison on his nose.
By diligent pursuit of the
Elusive Early Worm,
I gained another victory
After a lengthy term.
A voice came stealing through the trees—
It was the yell of Fame !
So, anxious as of old to please,
A tradesman I became.
At work till all was blue I stayed,
And, Gentle Reader, mark
The next distinction ! I was made
A proud, high-collared clerk !
Perched on a stool, I madly scratched
In ledgers with a pen,
Till all the month’s accounts I hatched
Like some financial hen.
No union then the caste disturbed
With talk of decent “pay ” ;
The ache of poverty I curbed,
And proudly scratched away.
Next time Fame called she called me down ;
An apron round my waist,
I served my country—and the town—
With groceries in haste.
But note how humbleness and toil
Set free the soul entombed !
And how from out the salesman soil
A rose sprang up and bloomed !
Long years went by—large eggs went bad,
Till “Forward 1” shouted Fate,
And I—the former farmer’s lad—
Leaped o’er the cheese elate.
“ Your humble servant ” that’s the way
I’ve finished off my screeds
Since o’er the cheese I jumped that day.
The yarn no varnish needs.
I’ve climbed the fruit-tree of success
Ex >ctly like a grub,
And I’ll advise the World unless
It rushes with a tub
And picks me off my social leaf ;
Like a wild orchardist
Who finds a tree, to his great grief,
Has got “ non-unionist.”
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
THE DOWN FALL OF
THE DOG
( The- )
jlLd Qeoro'k. 15 krughfed
''Whaleucr 4 shall vat do
With Qeorgie’s little dri|-dog
(Now Gjtorgicb blood’s turned blue ?.
§©© © © ©
What" shall we do with doggie,
n 3
Whatever’ shall we do
If knighthood’s fr -for Gjeorgie
Whej, knighr the 100.
S.A.
Cipher
THE FLAPPING OF THE FLAG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The country is sick of this flag-flapping'.— British states-
man, recently.
We are a portly citizen—our girth is sixty-two ;
Our vest is broad and pearlv-white and peerless ;
Our arm would be a Samson’s for a deed of derring-do ;
Our jaw is ever going strong and fearless ;
And (you say) you’re “ getting weary of our endless talk
and dreary,”
Of what you call “ our twaddle and our brag,”
Because we never, never lift a gun, but wander ever
O’er the country wide, a-flapping of a flag.
We’ve a land with room for millions ; and the millions
they must come,
Be they brindled, be they yellow, black or brown ;
And our hearts they beat responsive to the sound of
Britain’s drum ;
And we glory in her story and her crown ;
But whene’er you bid us bustle, build a ship or two and
hustle,
You’ll find our noble vanguard on the lag,
And as soon as trouble’s brewing and you ask, “ What
are you doing ? ”
We reply : “ O, we’re a-flapping of the flag!”
And if foes were killed by “ flapping” in the ranks of
grisly War,
There’s not a foe could stand an hour before us;
And if spilling splendid language were a-shedding foe
men’s gore,
O what a flood would wash the land that bore us !
But ’stead of drill and drumming we trot around
a-humming
“ We’re Bulldog Boys who’d rally round the Rag”;
And the song that we’d be lifting when the battle smoke’s
a-drifting
Is: “ Start again the Flapping of the Flag! ”
Some peoples back in history—they saved themselves by
grit,
And some—they saved themselves by noble running ;
And now, you say, the ultimate survivors are the fit,
Who get before their fellows with their gunning.
But We—whose heads are level—O! We beat the very
Devil;
For when our battle-front begins to sag,
We wastt no ammunition—but we run like all perdition,
And start again—the Flapping of the Flag!
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.


THE LIPP PIANO
a\ x
Has a Quality and individual-
ity all its own.
Its tone is pure and ricH,
its toucH light, and its con-
struction an example of
Highest grade worKmanship.
We Have a fine display of
these Pianos, and guarantee
tHem to stand true in any
climate.
Catalogues and particulars
of easy terms free on appli-
cation.
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
and at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
Newspapers For Sale
RARE CHANCES FOR INVESTING.
(1) ON NORTHERN RIVERS. —Tri-weekly, equipped two
Monolines and modern plant, magnificent paying: business,
showing- £BOO profit per year. Price £1950.'
(2) ON NORTHERN RIVERS. —Bi-weekly, first-class
plant, showing £5OO profit per year. Price £1250. Highly
recommended first-class investment.
(3) ON NORTHERN RIVERS.— Weekly, double-demy
machine and good plant. Annual profit £3OO. Price£7so.
(4) NORTHERN LINE. —Tri-weekly paper, two setting
machines and every modern convenience. One of the
best businesses in the State. In large rapidly increasing
district. Annual profit £lOOO. Price £2750.
(5) NORTH-WESTERN LINE. —WeII-equipped, old-
established property in large and growing centre, doing
good profitable offices. Annual profit £750. Price £l4OO.
(6) NORTHERN LlNE. —Snug business in rapidly-
growing pastoral, agricultural, grazing district. Well-
equipped business. Annual profit £4OO. Price £1250.
(7) WESTERN LlNE. —Thoroughly established office,
doing good business in rising centre. No opposition.
Annual profit £350. Price £575.
(8) WESTERN LlNE.— Small, though sound, business,
suitable for working proprietor. Annual profit £2OO.
Price £325.
(9) SOUTH COAST . —ln charming centre, could be worked
into good business. Annual profit £2OO. Price £275.
(10) SYDNEY SUBURBAN PAPER. -No plant. Annual
profit £l5O. Price £l5O.
Terms (which in almost every instance can be arranged)
and particulars from T. M. SHAKESPEARE, Secretary
N.S.W. Country Press Association, Sydney.
THE
MARVELLOUS
EAR PHONE
Professor HOFFMANN’S Great Discovery.
A Wireless Telephone for the Ear. Excels any-
thing: ever invented to restore the HEARINC.
He is wearing the
Ear Phone. Can
you deteot it ?
Professor Hoffmann’s Ear
Phone marks a new epoch in
the cure of Deafness, and
the difference between a
country cart and an express
train illustrates the immense
improvement this remark-
able instrument is on all
other devices that have gone
before.
The Ear Phone is self-
adjusting, invisible to the
eye, and its enormous value
to deaf ears is in its unique
power to CORRECT, FOCUS
AND MAGNIFY the sound
waves on the drum of the
ear. By the aid of these in-
struments, which are so soft,
and light that they are not
felt day or night, the slightest sounds may be
heard perfectly.
<i tt yer y interesting Illustrated Book, entitled
How to Make Deaf Ears Hear,” will be sent post
free on receipt of name and address.
Every Deaf Person should read this.
Address—
Professor E. HOFFMANN, Dep t. issc,
54 Duke Street, Mayfair, London, Eng. [2
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 10th November, 1909.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT.
MUNGERY ESTATE.
PARKES LAND DISTRICT.
62 FARMS
Will become available 10th January, 1910.
Applications lodged from 10th to 15th January, 1910, inclusive,
will be treated as simultaneous.
Full particulars. Lithographs, Application Forms, etc., may be obtained at the Information
Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney, or any Crown Land Agent throughout the State.
Robert McDonald,
Under-Secretary.
JERDAN’S
“Home” Battery
IS RECOMMENDED TO
EVERY FAMILY.
You NEVER know during the hot
summer months when Headaches, Heat
or Nervous Collapses Attacks of
Insomnia—are likely to occur.
In ALL these cases Jerdan’s “ Home”
Battery will give instant relief, and in
the end a speedy cure.
The working is extremely simple—and
it can be suited to the wants of both
adults and children.
LET US SEND YOU OUR
FREE BATTERY BOOKLET.
JERDANS,
Price 35/-, Post Free,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 QEORQE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Magic Money Maker
Run a Little Mint of
Your Own.
One Shilling
complete with
full Directions.
Post free.
\ • Vj
VOtr will never be hard up while you have this Wonderful
Apparatus in your pocket. It will turn out Real Coins
one after another in a way that will make your friends
stare. You simply place a small piece of plain metal on the
siand isee engraving), put on the cover,’tap it smartly raise
the cover and there is the money ! A s poor! as you get- from
the bans. You can do this repeatedly until your friends
think you-are a millionaire. Complete' with plain metal
pieces and full directions, only One Shilling, posted anywhere
The Union Manufacturing Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
|/each post free 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
' Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
r SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS* TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
m
x
&
V
*
N>
MS
&
Sr
Av
Sr
55
?v
»


5^
&
V'
*
S>
V
*
*
<o
GREY HAIRS THAT COME TOO SOON.
Premature greyness is one of the afflictions of the age,
and many people still believe that it is not preventable.
They make a great mistake ; it is not only preventable
but curable. Those who show a tendency to premature
greyness, should consult Mrs. Cowling, of the Hygeia
Institute. Her inexpensive individual treatment is an
unfailing preventive of the trouble, and will cure even
advanced cases of greyness.
Of course, sometimes it has been too long established to
be capable of perfect cure. In such a case Mrs. Cowling
will tell her patients frankly what she thinks about it,
and save them the expense of treatment where it ivould
be ineffectual. All specialists will not do this.
It is quite worth while going to see her, or writing if
one is unable to call.
She gives free consultations every day but Saturday
between 2.15 and 4.45, and, b}' appointment, on Wednes-
day from 6to 7. Her Telephone number is—City 60S.
Mrs. Cowling’s address is—Dept. B, Hygeia Institute,
Ocean House, opposite Government Savintrs Bank, Moore
Street, Sydney.
w
0
*2
•ROBOK.
T6.A
i-D
RE
1
Hello, deah, what ate you
looking so pleased about
What? No! Oh! I’m so
glad, I’m sure you’ll both be
awfully happy—come along and
have a cup of tea, and tell me
all about it. Look here d:ah!
when you are married —promise
me one thing—you’ll keep good
tea or I’ll shun you, mind —-
some people use ;uch awful
stuff that I’ve almost had to
give up visiting altogether. Now
remember, you’ve had fair warn-
ing, if you don’t give me Robur,
1 won’t come to see you.
Mother’s always laughing at
me and saying I’m sure to be
an old maid, because I’m so
fond of a cup of tea —of course,
that’s all nonsense, isn’t it ?
Why, they do say pure tea
imptoves one’s complexion so
long as it’s taken in moderation
—really must you go —I’m so
sorry—l don’t seem to have had
a word with you, deah I’ll
come over one afternoon during
the week, and have a cup of tea
with you—Robur, mind! and
you’ll tell me all about it then
won’t you, deah. Ta, ta.
The Block Girl.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney. November 23, 1909.
My Dear Artni.—
My. remarks last week about the confused
numerousness of Edward VII. — how he is really
Edward X. in England and Edward I. in Scotland
and so on —caused some one to send me a copy of
the Fiery Cross, a Scottish nationalist publica-
tion. which'complains a considerable amount on
this same subject. It objects—and I really don’t
see why it shouldn’t—about the way the English
people label a sovereign, say, Alfred 11. of all the
British Isles and all the Empire, because there
was a previous Alfred in England, regardless of
the fact that there was no previous Alfred in
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, India, Canada or Aus-
tralia. It seems a stupid piece of arrogance, and
it is tlie sort of thing that could be easily avoided.
I rise in my place as a states womans .and propose
that the British Parliament should enact that
every future British sovereign shall be known by
some name never previously used by any sovereign
in the empire, so that the numbering won’t
lead to confusion. To explain my meaning, I
append a proposed list of future British sovereigns,
starting a few years ahead in order to avoid
complications :
Solomon I. (1960-62): Killed by vultures while aero-
planing.
Solomon 11. (1962-95): Drowned through leakage of his
submarine palace.
Thomas I. (1995-2000): Died in his bed.
Thomas 11. (2000-2006): Abdicated and became a bishop
during ttie great religious revival.
Solomon 111. (2006-2020): Died in his bed.
Sarah Jane (2020-2056): Never married. Died uni-
versally beloved.
Johnson I. (2056-2072): Killed in battle against the
Chinese.
Mary Ann (2072-2100) : Abdicated and joined the Salva-
tion Army. (Die of Man captured by Mongols.)
Jabez I. (2100-2101): Died of the new Disappearance
Disease.
Jabez 11. (2101-2190) : Dethroned during tenth Chinese
war for being short in his cash.
Clarence I. (2190-2200) : An obscure monarch. Died at
afternoon tea on hearing of the African cannibal invasion
of Europe.
Augustus I. (2200-2216): Killed in battle during the
cannibal war.
Solomon IV. (2216-2230): Ditto.
Military Dictatorship.
General Brown (2230-2231) : Body not found after
battle.
General Smith (2231-2260) : Bomb dropped on him from
upper air.
General .Tones (2260-2276) : Died raving in military
hospital. Might have recovered from wounds but for
Drink.
Royal Line Restored.
Jemima (2276-2300): Abdicated after vain endeavors to
make head against the cannibal inroads.
Georgina (2300-2301): Eaten.
Cannibal Conquest of England.
Shinbone I. (2301-2330): Clubbed during insurrection.
Shinbone 11. (2330— dates lost after this period): Died
from over-eating.
Boiled Preacher (Period quite uncertain): Burst a
Wood vessel through hollering at religious ceremony.
Boiled Owl (Arithmetic abolished about this time):
Bitten by wild animals in London.
King with Name Like Cry of Cassowary ( ) :
Killed by falling out of tree.
King with Name like Dog Barking in the Distance
( ): Perished while bird-nesting.
Mandrill I. (reigned through 144 moons, one wet
season and an eclipse): Blown down during high wind.
Mandrill 11. (flourished in the time of the big comet)
Choked himself with coeoannt.
Mandrill 111. (many trees fell during his reign) : Killed
by wild bees.
Chaos I. : .
Whilst revelling in the kingly topic : On Satur-
day night I circulated awhile at the Royal, looking
at Nell Gwynne and Charles Stuart, the Man
With the Dog Under His Arm. Once upon a
time, when I was recovering from a broken neck
or some such mischance, and wearied of cats’
cradle and noughts and crosses, I took to tracing
pedigrees. Charles 11., you may remember,
promised to be a father to his people,
and, as some wit remarked, he was a
father to as many of them as possible. Well,
I tracked his infantry with the persistence of
a mouse on the trail of toasted cheese, arid all the
memory of the research came back to me on
Saturday night, when I saw a lady—a direct
descendant of the sad, bad, gay king—in the
audience. Nell Gwynne’s most hated rival for
the King’s affection was Moll Davies, the dancer.
His daughter by mistress Moll was entitled
Lady Mary Tudor. and when Charles
tired of the dancer he settled £lOOO a year
on her (Charles was generous with other
people’s money). The daughter married a
Ratcliffe, who afterwards became Earl of Der-
wentwater. The last earl was abbreviated with
an axe in 1716 for backing the wrong horse in the
Jacobite rebellion, and his estates, I presume,
were confiscated.
The curionsriess of the situation was that one of
the blood of Nell’s hated rival should be an
auditor of the player Nell. It would only bore
you to trace the generations from the obliterated
earl to the young Englishwoman descendant on
the female side. She abides at Musgrave-street,
Mosman, with her husband, one of J.C.W.’s
business staff, and their able-bodied infant. Her
likeness to the Stuart portraits is curiously
striking. Same long, full dark eyes with a
smouldering fire in them, same delicate beakiness
of feature, same rather long and narrow face and
black hair.
Just here I am struck with the thought of the
difference between the tastes of Charles 11. and
the Georges in the matter of the ladies they loved
without benefit of clergy. Charles’ mistresses
were young, pretty and clever. The Georgian lot
were ancient, plain and stupid.
Sydney is as pleased with its new Archbishop
as a child with a new toy. I have had several
descriptions of him (from women), and they dwell,
in words of course, on his neatly-turned ankles
and Julius Knightly legs as displayed by his
episcopal gaiters. One lady mentions, with joy-
ous surprise, that he looks more like an athlete
than an archbishop. If Tommy Burns got into
gaiters, clerical “ blacks.” and a looking-
backwards collar, he would seem a most con-
vincing archbishop. The spiritual potentate is
evidently like Ludovico in Othello, a “ very proper
man.” A garden party, given in the Wrights’
honor by the lay members of St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral Chapter, was held at Rona, the E. W. Knox
palacette at Bellevue Hill, and every “ pillar ” of
the Anglican faith was present. Mrs. Wright is
a tall, portly matron with a true English com-
plexion. The little girls are nice children and
seem to like their transplanting, so everything in
that garden party was lovely.
Judging by the Archbishop’s first pastoral
letter, the “pillars” are not the cheerful givers
that Holy Writ says the Lord loveth. The letter
was read at St. Andrew’s Cathedral service on
Sunday. Here’s from it: —
Nor can it be said, in my humble judgment, that the
Church Society is in a healthy condition at present
financially. I therefore appeal for liberal collections this
Advent season. I hope that no parish will be missing in
the list, and that all will do their best.
I also appeal for large additions to the list of sub-
scribers from our more wealthy churchmen. Am I wrong
in pointing out that there is only one subscription of £5O
a year from this diocese, with all its commercial activities
and wealth ? Furthermore, it was no layman who gave
that £5O, but my revered predecessor. Can we not find
at least 10 gifts of a similar amount, if not greater?
I wish the Archbishop had added : “Be half as
generous as you were with your Dreadnought sub-
scriptions.”
Concerning that marine product, the husband.
Dr. McDonagh, of the P. and O. Macedonia, is
taking the congratulations of his friends on his
engagement to Miss Craven, a Randwick girl.
And with a view to mooring (or should it be
tethering) himself on a floor that isn’t fluid, he has
bought a practice in London. The medical
matrimonial aspirant had a relative, Thomas
McDonagh, in the Burke and Wills expedition,
and a sister, Mrs. John Barlow, is living in
Sydney. The bride-elect is the youngest of three
fair and moneyed sisters. One is married to Cap-
tain Holborow, another to one of the Meaghers of
Bathurst.
Mr. Burgess, manager of the Grand Hotel
(Melbourne), has disguised himself as Providence
and acquired from Mr. Mark Foy (by rental) that
most wonderful building in all Australia, the
Hydro at Medlow. The Hydro, with its quarter
of a mile of picture gallery through which you
walk to breakfast if the weather is cold or rainy,
and its half-league of garden that dopes you with
its scent of pines and lilac in the hot days and
hushed nights, has become an institution. (It is
wonderful to reflect what a fuss Tennyson
made because some men galloped just about
the length of the Hydro.) Only you sprint
past the pictures and are in time for your
early meal, while the garden puts out a thousand
invisible hands to hold you saying, “ Would
you leave me for grilled bacon ? ” And you
iinger to say “ How do you do” to a waving ldac
plume or a nodding: guelder rose, or to watch the
pine needles dripping pale-green morning dew—
the color of absinthe. When you arrive at the
breakfast-room the other guests are gone and the
victuals cold.
I had an idea that only Providence, who has
exceptional opportunitiesforcomprehensive super-
vision of the bird’s-eye type of viewing, could
successfully command the amazing Medlow hostel ;
and, of course, Mr. Burgess will have to prove the
efficacy of his disguise. If he is found out the
result may be fatal. Alterations and changes
which the journalese language neatly describes as
“sweeping” are intended, and the new man will
take over his new venture at the sweet yearly
rental of £2500.
Mrs. Herbert Curlewis, better known as Miss
Ethel Turner, and her two children will be
amongst the departers for Europe early in the
new year. Their absenteeism will endure for six
months or so.
The Miss Hope Faitbfull whose engagement to
an Englishman named Webb is announced is a
sister of Miss Pearl Faithfull, “the actresses’
friend.” She. the Pearl one, is understood to
have said “Yes” to a man with a name well
known in English politics. The sisters are at
present absenteeing from the Commonwealth.
Their late father, Mr. Montague Faithfull, left
his three daughters well beyond the reach of the
wolf. Out of sound of his yowl, in fact.
Mrs. Forsyth, of Newcastle, a fearless rider and
smart frocker, is back with her coal-mine-
proprietor husband from foreign parts. The time
must seem out of joint to the mine-owner. It is
not calculated to give him the Billikins smile.
Miss Nellie has gone into summer quarters at
Waratah. Mrs. Telford Mackenzie Young, the
bride-to-be of Chief-Secretary Wood, is in Sydney,
and has deposited her Saratoga trunk at the
Wentworth Hotel. Those well-known tennis
players, the Dunlop brothers, are at the same
hostel.
Girls descended from the Pioneer or Old Fami-
lies of N.S.W. have sprung a club on us. Quietly
as a mole in the dark they worked, and now their
circular has reached the light, and the mushroom
person has read it with feelings of awe and
envy. The club has been opened at 100 King-
street. The founder and organiser is Miss Chris-
tine Spark, the president is Miss Mary Suttor,
the hon. secs, are Misses Frances Windeyer and
Phyllis Cunningham ; whilst the committee con-
tains the names of Misses Clara Manning, Mort
and Ruth Danger. Eighty members have hurried
in, and some hundred more are wanted.
Three divorces are pending amongst our Some-
body set. All the parties are well known and
well off, so the Bar will have a good time.
Miss Vera Simpson, one of the pretties of this
State, is like to be smothered with the congratula-
tions of her demonstrative girl-friends on her
engagement to take on the orange-blossom cere-
mony.
Miss Stella Gastelle, who Jacked to someone
else’s Jill in panto., left by the Moldavia this
week for a London engagement. A silver mani-
cure set, flowers and teddy bears soothed her last
hours on Australian earth.
Miss Beatrice Day quits the Julius Knight co.
at the end of the Maoriland tour. Her engage-
ment is up, and if it were not she announces her-
self as so badly in need of a holiday that she would
have to take one. She and her small boy will go
a-resting probably to the apple farm in Wes-
tralia, and possibly they will stop to see the green
crop redden.
The Knight co. itself will shortly afterwards
disband. It plays a season here at Christmas
with Miss Dorothy Grimston in Miss Day s place;
then comes its end. Australasia without Julius
is unthinkable. We’ll have to get out a writ of
have his corpus as soon as we see his name in some
outward-bound liner’s passenger list.
Sydney is full to overflowing with disbanded
companies. The Roberts and Maggie Moore
brace were in a Criterion box the other night.
The other units of what was their co. are floating
about. Walter Baker and Frances Ross, who
have been principalling in an Anderson co., are
now unattached, and Philip Lytton s bunch is
back from successful business and “resting.”
Bland Holt’s disintegration is due—his company’s
disintegration, of course ; he personally will re-
tain his cohesive soundness and continue to look
21 and 11 months.
Mr. Harry Rickards first saw De Dio, the pretty
little dancer, three years ago at the London
Palace. He engaged her then, and waited the
necessary three years for her first vacant date, and
now she has danced herself into the hearts of the
Tivoli audiences. In all the capitals of Europe
her feet have twinkled —unlike most dancers, she
has small, pretty feet—to the distraction of im-
pressionable peers and princes. It was in Vienna
that the girl declined the offer of prineesshood
(morganatic, I suppose) made by a smitten arch-
duke of the Imperial house of Hapsburg. The
“freshness” of these princes! I suppose they
think they are honoring a pretty woman when
they invite her to come to Margate and have
shrimps.
The De Dio has since made princely proposals
impossible by marrying. She takes her extra-
ordinary stage name from her Spanish father’s
family. Her mother was Irish. Her eyes
certainly she inherits from the Juanita nation-
ality. They are big, soft, black eyes, set off
by intensely-glossy black hair. One rarely sees
truly beautiful black hair. The ebon hair is
so often lustreless or niggery. This fortunate
young party has had only a few dancing lessons
in her life, and those she got as a small child from
a nun that she might dance on another nun’s feast-
day. All her dances are of her own origination.
The “Birth of the Pearl ” and the “Resurrection
of She.” from Rider Haggard’s book, do her
inventiveness as well as her dancing credit.
Three electricians and aquantity of scenery come
with her, for her lighting and scenery count for
much. She does not fly light in the way of bag-
gage, though she is a thistledown human herself.
De Dio, by the way, is the first to wear that
newest of all headgear, the Russian turban, in our
city. It reminds a little of the elegant war turban
Oscar Asche wears nightly as Othello when he
lands at Cyprus, only his has a vertical spike
from the middle of the crown.
An immensely interesting offer has been or is
to be made to Melba by De Dio’s husband. (I
did not hear his name; he cap scarcely be Mr.
De Dio, and to call him his wife’s husband is no
disparagement.) Acting for an American theatri-
cal syndicate known as the Morrison Circuit, the
visitor was empowered to offer Melba some won-
derful sum a week to sing in music halls. As
some of the finest artists are now doing so, Melba
probably won’t drop as dead as she might once
have done on hearing the offer.
The Cootamundka Liberal mentions somewhat
of the surprise and pleasure with which Miss Amy
Castles at her last visit to that woolly and pros-
perous centre heard the contralto of Miss Jean
Morgan. The soprano acclaimed the contralto as
possessing the promise of a star voice, and gave
the usual advice—foreign study, hard work, and
the rest of the disagreeables necessary to making
a voice worthy of being spelt with a capital letter.
' Mrs. F. D. Beach, of Sydney, and her ewe lamb
Kathleen, back from a nine months’ saunter
through foreign parts, mention that they ran
across a clever and progressive bouquet of Austra-
lian artists. Little Leila Doubleday, seen in
Vienna, is fulfilling on her fiddle the high hopes
of her friends. Miss Ruby Rich, in Lotidon,
and Miss May Peach, the sweet singer,
have no grievance against anyone or any-
thing or the climate. All in the United
Kingdom garden is lovely to them. In Paris the
wanderers met Miss Nora Long and Miss
Ruby Adams. The long Nora, speaking French
with great rapidity and expostulating firmly with
Customs House persons on behalf of the travellers,
looked splendid and was in the same condition
mentally over her two years’high-salaried engage-
ment at the Nice Opera House. And the willowy
Adams maiden, exquisitely-frocked, asked ten-
derly after this bit of coast-line, and sighed
melodiously in the key of B over the slavery
riecessarv in the acquirement of a fully-trained
and polished Voice. In the matter of fashion
the ewe-lamb traveller was amused bv the winning
way of the newest hat—the hat that had made its
appearance when she and her mother were leaving
London. It was a big hat without an atom of
trimming? save a rose-at the turning-up point.
The turning-point may be at the side, yet it is
sometimes above one eye or over the middle of
the forehead. But the bareness of the hat. and
the curve and the rose were insisted upon. The
roof of such it hat must look like a country laid
waste by the Ottoman hordes.
Who buys the attractive and expensive bathing
dresses that swell Sydney shops stocked last year
and this season ? Whatever bath I fall into—a
roller at Manly, Balmoral, the Spit or anywhere
e l se _X S ee the same old stockingette vesture, or
flannelette knickers and tunic, with here and
there a humoreske (as the musical programmes
have it) made out of an old kimono, with storks or
wistaria or the summit of Fuji-Yama posing on it.
Yet last summer the shops sold out their stocks
of four-guinea bathing dress, and this year
the 595. suits and the new extra, the
domino, are selling with haste and without rest.
The alpaca suit, consisting of knickers and a tunic
or doublet that comes down to the knees, is the
sweetest bit of sea-joy. It is shown in dark-blue
with light-blue yoke and cuffs and buttons, in
several shades of brown, in white, and in a sea-
green with white edges. The sea-green circum-
stance is reallv the last chirrup of style, for it
will harmonise “with the league-long roller of green
and white that rolls you on the beach. Ihe
domino is of cotton cripe. It ought to be worn
to and from the water’s edge by the
surfers at Manly, if only to exasperate the bold,
bad men who sit on chairs there smoking shag
tobacco and staring. Thrown over the bathing
suit, and the hood drawn over the head, it leaves
only a wee bit of the face and the feet to be
scanned. The average woman who comes m out
of the wet of the Pacific looks like a grampus.
The magnitude of Melba’s fame in Europe seems
to be only dimly understood here, after all. It
staggered me to find that London Evening News
of October 13 had reprinted with cross-headings
the description of the nightingale s clothes and
singing and general aspect which appeared in this
letter about five weeks previously. When a song-
stress has been before the public for 20 years or
so. and yet is such a new, fresh topic that the
clothes she wore at a five-weeks -old concert
12,000 miles away are worth recording, her im-
portance must be tremendous. Multiply the
clothes by the distance, and the result by the
years of the lady’s publicity, and the result should
be her notability marked in plain figures.
Yours affectionately.
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS
THE LEADING JEWELLERS IN THE COMMONWEALTH
*
NEW
AQUAMARINE
JEWELERY.
CHRISTMAS BOOKLET
Just Issued, containing over 250 Illustrated Suggestions for Presents,
sent Post Free to any Address
SHOWROOMS:
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
AND LONDON
ft
9
9
Fiction,
History,
Philosophy,
R°ligion,
Science,
Poetry,
The Drama,
Travel,
Adventure,
etc.
NEW
Harmsworth Fortnightly
To bring in pithy form within the reach of everybody the
Twelve Hundred Greatest Books in the world : such is the
purpose of the new WORLD’S GREAT BOOKS which,
m t* l6 course of its fortnightly parts, will give the essence of
The Best Books in every
Branch of Literature.
Nothing on such bold and original lines has ever been done
before. By giving up no more of your time than you do to
a newspaper this work will enable you m a short time to
master the contents of the greatest books ever written.
Think of all the books you have wanted to read but
couldn t afford to buy; think of all the books you have wanted
to read but haven’t had the time to open ; think of all the
books you ought to read in order to be able to take an in-
telligent part in the discussions of educated people. Then ask
yourself if this is not a work you ought certainly to possess.
Part I Now on Sale.
Complete in 42 Parts.
All Booksellers, 9d. per copy.
Wholesale
Agents :
GORDON & GOTCH.
f\~ .
7 Ar
■V
A
BIG MONEY
TO BE MADE!
Waterside Lots near Sydney
Increasing Rapidly in Value.
S T £’-'; FA ls growing wonderfully in wealth anil in population, ami this Growth
"JZi "nSS r? !’■ ““ ™ the Seaside properties near
” V 'r,,, ne , ls making no new sea-coast —good waterside lots are .-dread v
week- j The e num - ber of thoae willing and able to pav fancy prices for desirable
in Slue n a year H™? 88 '" 8 tremendously. It is nothing for a property to double
any words of ours * experience-,t will speak more eloquently than
To Arthur Rickard & Co.. Ltd., Hornsby.
S4b Pitt Street. Sydney. October 25, 1909.
foot 333 ye io S apo l pur ? ha sed three allotments of land from you at 7/- per
:IIL TU hn , 18 T nths of P ur °hase refused an offer of 20/-per foot for the
l»een be | bever investment, and my belief has
It, rtr. • 1 a ■ S i fclfled ‘ Bfl,lk interest compared with the above result would
X r V n ?/10/T d ’3 "3 0f to me on account of the small 3!
outlay—£2/10/- deposit, and instalments of 30/- monthly.
(Signed) E. DYSON AUSTEN.
Seaside Lots We Can Recommend.
CRONULLA. —Lot within half a
minute of Cronulla’s famous beach ; in the
very best position in this thriving suburb ;
right by the new Sutherland to Cronulla
tram. 40/- a foot. 5 per cent, cash ;
balance spread over 5 years.
FRESHWATER. —Fine week-end
blocks, close to new Brookvale tram, onlv
£33. £2 down, £1 month.
WOY WOY. -Choice water frontage
to Lttalong Beach, Brisbane Water, the
best beach near Woy Woy ; only one left,
£6O. Other blocks near the beach, £l4.
lerms from 5/- deposit, 5/- monthly.
PITTWATER.— Choice lot, close to
I ittwater Lake and the beach ; over the
road from Brock’s pleasure grounds, 06 x
200 ft., 10/- foot. £1 deposit, 10/- monthly.
NA.RRABEEN. —AbsoIute frontage
to Narrabeen Lake, close to ocean beach,
£55. £2 deposit, £1 monthly.
CRONULLA.— 06 x 211 ft. ; one minute
to new tram; handy to Cronulla Beach;
only £25. £1 deposit, 10/- monthly.
SUTHERLAN D. —2o-acre block,
water frontage to Woronora River, £3 an
acre. £2 down, £1 monthly.
stfr/Juzr*
<zCo^£f(f
icAam
New Edison Records
for the Phonograph.
There is such a fine range of music in the December
selections that all tastes are well catered for. The
contributors include many of the most popular artists
of the day, and you will do well to add a few of
the new numbers to your collection. Call on your local
Edison dealer, and get him to. play over those you fancy.
Standard Records for December
(Two-Minutes).
10177 “ La La La ” March .. Ed. Con. Band
10178 Parody, “ Down in Junyle Town” .. Wills
10179 He Falls for the Ladies Every Time .. Sadler
10180 Abide With Me .. (Orjran)
10181 Under the Irish Moon .. Byron G. Harlan
10182 Guide Me, O Thou Great Jehovah
Ed. Mxd. Quart.
10183 Wise Old Indian Billy Murray
10184 The Last Kiss Waltz .. Ain. Symph. Orch.
lOISo The Market on Saturday Night .. Ada Jone
IOIS6 Little Willie Premier Quartette
3.0187 I>ear Old Dear .. .. Will Oakland
13857 Mazurka from “ Coppelia” Nat. Mil. Band
13858 Ho ! Jolly Jenkin—“ Ivanhoe” Peter Dawson
13859 Walker Walked Away .. Georye Form by
13860 Under the Double Eagle .. . .(Concertina)
13861 Come Into the Parlor, Charlie .. Miss Fordo
Amberol Records for December
(Four-Minutes).
Nat. Mil. Band
.. Ernest Pike
Harry Fay
Nat. Strg. Quart.
Miss Forde
..(Banjo)
Pike and Dawson
12031 Overture, “ Martha ”
12032 The Pilgrim' of Love
12033 Goo-Goo Land
12034 A Broken Heart
12035 Only a Dream
12036 Sweet Jasmine
12037 Ever of Thee
12038 Selection from “ The Geisha” Nat. Mil. Band
12039 The Man from Lancashire George Formby
12040 Medley of Irish Airs .. .. (Concertina)
12041 Tine Till Death .. .. Peter Dawson
12042 “ Salome ” Waltz .. .. Brit. Con. Oreh.
12043 I’m Always Doing- Something Silly Osmond
12044 The Sailor’s Grave .. .. Arthur Grover
12045 Grand March from “ La Reine de Saba”
Nat. Mil. Band
175 Selection from “ Robin Hood ” Ed. Con. Band
176 The Flag He Loved So Well.. * .. Wills
177 Polonaise in D Major (Violin)
17S Bear s Oil Golden & Hughes
170 Are You Coming Home To-night
Anthony & Harrison
180 La Perle de Madrid Valse . . Am. Symph. Orch.
181 The Arkansas Traveller .. .. Spencer
18J Ihe Day of the Game .. ..Peerless Quartette
IkS Believe Me If All Those Knde;irin ( * r Youm r
. Charms (Cornet)
184 Come and Hear the Orchestra .. Sadler
185 There’s a Woman in the Case Murry K. Hill
186 Tannhauser March '. .. Ed. Con. Band
187 Good Night, Dear .. . .John Barnes Wells
188 Holy! Holy! Lord God Almighty
Kd. Mxd, Quart.
180 Garry Owen Medley (Violin)
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD,
DEPT. B, 340 KENT STREET. SVDNTCV


if
'Z
Always Order
SCHWEPPES ’
DRY GINGER ALE
Awarded Grand Prix
London. 1908.
It looks as though there will be quite a rumpus
in England should the Lords in their anger throw out the
Lloyd George Budget. But the benign influence of
D.C.L. Whisky may yet make the noble Lords wise
enough to recognise the profitableness of generously
parting with a few loose bawbees for the needs of the
nation which supports them. As for Protection that
whispereth D.C.L. to the wise may come just as well
after the budget as before.*
&
f&J, I
scyCfcpVs
“Comfort and
Contentment
in Corsets!”
Is only attainable "by using your
most critical judgment in your
selection.
Royal
Rustless Corsets
—the famous French Corsets that
inaugurated the fascinating
“ DIRECTOIRE ” Fashions—are the
Corsets that the most critical
dressers declare as the ideal in
style gracefulness symmetry-
comfort and coolness.
“Your Draper will show you
the New Spring Styles.”
P.D
TRADE
ILM)
P.D
MARK
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 22, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik.—
The fund for the extension of district nursing
in the bush netted £l2OO or £l3OO through the
Melba concert. But the public interest was more
in Melba than in the Cause, it seems. Thus far
the right kind of spirit has not been wakened by
that most appealing charity. Perhaps it is because
so manv city people live in grooves, and know
little, and think less, of the vast stretches
of country which is their land, and the
everyday " lives of the workers of the
Place of Big Spaces which is their country.
Unimaginative, narrow-minded, selfish beings
the majority of such city people are. The sacri-
fices that the district nurses make, even in the
nearness of the city, are little short of angelic ;
and the same devoted type of nurse can be found
for the country wilds if even the cost of bare
subsistence can be assured. Does any woman who
lives always near the city ever think of the help-
lessness of sick women and children who live tens
of miles from a doctor man, or even from a help-
ing woman ? In a tedious illness almost anything
is put up with rather than go to the expense of a
far-distant doctor-man, who having been brought
through great tribulation and over bumpy roads
to give advice, places careful nursing in the fore-
front of his prescription. In case of sudden illness
there are wild rides through wild country, the rider
sometimescarryingadyingchildon the saddle-bow
as a last hope against the certain impossibility of
bringing a doctor back in time. Missionaries to
the dear “heathen” appeal to many folk; can
they focus their sympathy a little nearer home,
and think of their own people lying sick under
miserable conditions that could be eased by a
skilled Nightingale ? The nurse is as important
as the doctor. She is keener than he on
a case—in fact, she is as tenacious as any bulldog,
and will not let go till the last shred of hope is
torn from her. And Australia loses some of its
hardest-working sons and daughters every year
because the tenacious care of the gentle bulldog
nurse is practically unobtainable for them.
There was an awful revelation of rubbish when
some beneficiaries in the late Janet Lady’s estate
sent a number of her bequests to be auctioned on
Monday of this week. Looking at these mixed
lots, one naturally asked : “ Could such things
have been included among the Cliveden chattels ? ’’
What was the use of having so fine a house to give
house-room to such inartistic pictures and articles
of uselessness? For instance, there was a mock-
marble pair of wrestlers, with the neck of the
winning athlete showing a great cleft, as though
an invisible headsman had started to de-
capitate him. Various curios were of the
kind that hybrid hawkers vend on P. and O.
steamers at the ports of call, where the purchasers
are itching to buy something or anything. And
the pictures ! A few oil paintings and inhuman
portrait-engravings. One of the pictures, in an
elaborate wood-framing, was a litho. portrait
of Lord Dick Nevill’s elderly father, which
must have been acquired by Janet Lady in the
first enthusiasm of her acquaintance with Old
Nobility. Literature was represented by a set of
miniature editions of “Standard works” in a
wooden case, books that are rarely read nowadays
in even the most readable form, and which are
never looked at in baby editions except by botan-
ists who carry a magnifying glass.
A certain dame grows very aggressive of late.
At a recent State function she talked over
the head of her brainy husband until at last
he protested angrily that he would go home and
leave her. This was the second family storm
which happened at the same function. The lawful
lord of a handsome wife remonstrated with the
dame oyer her scantiness of shoulder cover.
When the argument had lasted some time, the
lady turned to some friends and asked for their
opinion. The reply was disconcerting. “Well,
my dear, I was just coming over to ask you if you
intended to slip out.” “Just what I say !” ex-
claimed hubby. “You are making a guy of your-
self ! ”
At a recent wedding, a man whose presence was
requested sent along a load of silverware. The
mamma of the bride thanked him quite nicely,
even though he had been tactless enough to send
the twenty-third biscuit barrel. Nevertheless,
mamma was not to be floored by a small matter
like that. She sweetly remarked on the barrel glut,
and demanded, still courteously, that the present
be changed. “Certainly,” wrote the man,
“what’ll y’ have?” “Well, we haven’t got a
fish service,” wrote back the tactful gatherer of
household gods. Which suggests that the parents
of the bride should, in all cases, call a committee
meeting of the invitees to the wedding, where all
the intending donors should announce the limit
amount of their donations and come to an amicable
arrangement for the purchase of a full assortment
of things.
McCubbin, that most Australian artist and
devoted blue-gum-sucker, is about to give a
private show of his pictures at the studio, Carls-
berg, in Kensington-road.
The Cremorne Free Kindergarten in Richmond
is a kindly institution that teaches the young how
to think and do, and takes small children off
the hands of busy working mothers in the
busiest hours. Miss Agnes Duggin gave a
pupils’ concert in aid of the charity. Many
of Miss Duggin’s pupils play the banjo, and
the concert was worth while if only to see so much
banjo at one sitting—a huge half-moon of banjo
and guitar dripping with ribbons and backed by a
half-moon of Girl—all twanging for dear life and
charity. A girl, a pupil of Miss Coy, with a pale
face and a mouth like a pomegranate, sang love
songs quite warmly. More banjo-guitar-zither
orchestration and an interluding reciter filled up
the concert, and then the half-moon played the
audience home.
It would seem that there is a plague of banjo
in the land. Usually an animal seen only in
isolated specimens, it has suddenly become a
swarm. At the Opera House is a man who sur-
rounds himself with the pawky tinkler as with
an army. Banjos spread round the stage
till it looks like a shop for grandfather
clocks, and the patient tamer makes them
do tricks. He sweeps the carpet with one
after the most approved modern method, and
plays “ Nelly Bly ” during the operation. Six
banjos revolve rapidly on their own axis, and
have “ Home, Sweet Home ” plunked out of them
by the one player. It is to be hoped that the
banjo man is not married. It would be awful to
live with him. He probably fries the breakfast
on five banjo frying-pans and plays “ Hiawatha
as the bacon frizzles.
The Melba charity concert was a reserved seat
house. There was a haughty crowd of the well-
groomed, while the seats of the mighty half-crown
were comparatively thin. It was a holiday,
and the crowd was away Saving the King
on the Figure 8 or along the river bank.
For this concert a sufficient staff of walk-this-way
ushers had been engaged, so people rushed
peacefully into the intricacies of that vague seat-
ing area which is intersected by so many strange
roadways. At earlier Melba Exhibition warbles,
several apoplectic male parents nearly burst their
pleated shirt-fronts in worried indignation before
their line of bridling fluffy chooks was safely
bestowed with much fuss of feathers. Others
spent the whole evening in a pettish ferment and
the wrong seats, aggravated by damp shoes if
they had not motored to the fray. One had to
pay for a bill of fare. Certain maidens—a small,
select herd of them —are becoming almost pro-
fessional programme-sellers. Always the
same girls line up in chic frocks and
smilefully wheedle a “bob” (and all the
change) for a charity programme. Beatrice Mad-
den, as a wheedler, did her smiling from beneath
a fetching pink snood. Leslie of the family
tossed her special grey patch perkily. Nan
O’Hara and Nancy Grice made mankind help-
less with admiration of their “simple” white
frocks (hear a woman groan at the simple frock of
the moment— “ the bill, my dear ! ”). Miss Em-
merton held up the advancing man like a high-
way woman, and any who escaped got daggers in
their backs. Outside the narrow path that leadeth
to the best seats one strong square was formed of
appealing frilly maiden. Cheerfully the Man
bought of their wares —to find inside another
regiment pelting him with the fact that the glori-
fied thing in his hands was a souvenir —not a
programme. So he had to pay again. The
souvenir had pictures of the bush reproduced from
Australian painters and blank verse from Aus-
tralian blank poets, with portraits of Melba and
the helping countess. This countess portrait was
remarkable. The lady looked like the Queen of
Scots, and a modern tulle ruff collar heightened the
likeness.
Lots of Governor came to the concert; but all
that the seated multitude could see was a guiding,
white-helmeted policeman and the few extra feet
(in height) of Lord Richard, the new crowned
O.M.G. If someone made him a Y.M.C. A. he’d
topple—sure.
We shall not hear Melba again—p’raps—for a
time. Anyhow, she cannot for ever remain at
this point of perfection. It was beautiful singing,
and a perfectly balanced programme. The
caverns of the Exhibition are no place for a
singer, yet Melba can sing anywhere. A large
orchestra was collected for the night. Even the
theatres loosed the bands for charity’s sake, and
let music-men slip. MacCunn, of Her Majesty’s,
missed his first clarionet, and the Princess’s
dropped a violin of particular tone ; and so on
round the shows.
Melba has feeling in her froeking sense. She
wore simple white and nary a jewel—p’raps be-
cause of the charity—possibly to frock her
Mimi in “ Boheme.” The dress made her look
young—the soft, well-draped ivory tint—and her
hair was most simply piled and bound with Midas
roses of gold. Melba can sing “ Boheme” —that
grown-up woman of the world can color her voice
with pure sweet girlishness. Her Mimi is a
triumph. The last of her programme, an encore,
should have been some melodious scrap—some
delicate thing; but Lemmone happened to be just
at hand with his flute, strangely enough, and the
two tootled the “Gentle Lark,” after which Melba
graciously declined to warble any further.
People are getting tired of amateur theatricals.
Although “The French Maid ” was played at the
Princess’s for two nights it will not benefit the
Foundling Hospital very greatly. Even a double
supply of Governor could not crowd the house on
Saturday. The boxes gaped drearily and gaps,
yawned in the circle, even within sight of the
sacred enclosure, full of Governor and house
party. The Countess, with two diamond
combs making the parting of her hair, had
pretty daughter Morvyn alongside. This girl
is evidently following in the beauty footsteps of
the family, though as yet she is in the flapper
stage. A big rose-pink cloak enveloped her like
the villain’s cloak on a stage, and she looked
beautiful. House party females from both
Government Houses filled the pen cut off by
flowers and blue ropes for their sitting.
Things always will happen to amateurs. The
Princess’s curtain —which cannot claim to be an
amateur and which has risen and descended for
years without a hitch —chose this time to behave
like a new and quite untrained window-blind. The
finale of the second act was held up in horrible
highwayman fashion by the curtain. “Aunt”
had to faint for quite a minute, and the Admiral
was forced to struggle indignantly all that time
in the desecrating hands of the police, while
the orchestra blared unhappily. And still the
curtain remained obdurate. But the majority
of the audience was too bored to laugh at the ab-
surdity of the situation. The amateurs were not
in the very front rank of society, therefore
society in general lacked enthusiasm, despite the
whole-hearted support of Government House.
Mrs. O’Hara and Mrs. Frank Madden rounded
up the army of professional society programme
sellers, and pretty girls helped in quite a stage-
like chorus.
The old-established dancing schools areon the
verge of their annual break up. The Hvain s
pupils were to gather in their hundreds at the
Masonic Hall on Wednesday night of this week,
and Mrs. Green will give her fancy dress ball at
the Town Hall on December 8. This year ball-
room dancing is to be exploited instead of the
ballet high kick. Mrs. Green is making an
attempt to reform the wild romp that is now
called dancing, and to bring back the languid
grace of yesterday. At her ball the Cotillon des
Fleurs will be danced —a new-old graceful move-
ment that is raging at present through Paris and
London and N’ York—and two sedate forms of
two-step. The two-step can be a thing of infinite
grace. Highly correct people do not yank up the
frock at the tail, but let the train glide after its
owner. A lot of practised grace must be in the
wearer, or the back-step proves fatal, and calami-
ties ensue.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide: —
News is off, and the Excellencies are pursuing it. They
go to Melbourne to escape the 9476 other things which we
want them to open, and they take the twins with them.
The Dudley roof tree will shelter them while they are in
the strange land. .
To celebrate the stupendous fact that King Edward is
a year older than he was 12 months ago, the Governor
called out the army the other day and reviewed it in bulk.
A marquee was erected on the parade ground to shelter
the millinery of the peerage, and his Ex. was in uniform
on a gallant charger, with tao aides in other uniforms
and on other chargers. (This exactitude is in case you
should imagine they were all on one charger, which our
Mrs. Ennis would never permit.) Nearly the whole army
was there—9o3, to be exact—and it is quite a big army
when you look at it all together. There were Infantry and
Artillery and Light Horse, and probably a dark horse or so
as well. And there were army medical corps and head-
quarters staffs and a motor to pick up the killed and
wounded. Her Ex. and the daughters, with the Way
dame, sat in a carriage and watched the manoeuvres with
heroic calm. There was no afternoon tea for the peerage ,
in fact, there was nothing for it but the marquee, and
marquees are large and indigestible. There were further
military celebrations on Monday, when his Ex. went down
to Largs and stood by while the garrison fired big guns at
the Gulf. And the Gulf didn’t hit back once.
A recent bride and bridegroom, wishing to lead the
simple life, planned to make a start by having the knot
tied on the banks of the Onkaparinga. The Onkaparinga,
meanders picturesquely through the hills, and the
Arcadian spot chosen for the event was photographed
and pictured on the invitations. Then at the wrong
moment some unimaginative person pointed out that
the S. A. law says soinething to the tendency that
any person found getting married in the open
country shall be shot, or words of that shuddery
effect. So the pretty ceremony reluctantly conveyed
itself into a church, and the two were knotted up like
anvordinary two who didn’t want to live the simple life.
The after-revels, however, occurred beside the river as
originally designed. The reason of the law remains a
mystery. Probably it's the result of living in a State
that has 491 churches to the square town. We’ve got to
see that they are used somehow.
The Appendreena Amateurs are inviting the public to a
performance of Pinero’s “ Dandy Dick ”; and the public
wants to go badly because it hears that a Westralian
cleric recently attacked “Dandy Dick” most bitterly.
The show will occupy the Walkerville Hall on December
11, when Ethelwyn Robin will be the shiny and particular
star. The Appendreena is a flourishing and well-
managed club. No one can be an acting member on his
own initiative. He has to wait till he is asked. And
once in it, members take it strictly in turns to be the
scintillating planet.
That same week will be thickly strewn with drama.
Mr. Treharne’s Miniature Repertory Theatre will have a
three nights’ run of literary plays; and meantime the
University Shakspeare Society is not going to let the
works of' its late brother Bill be neglected, and has
accordingly invited the world to come in and hear it
declaim its “ Hamlet” selections all over again.
Melba has handed over a little cheque to the mayor. It
is for something over £lOO, and is to be chopped up by
him and distributed among local charities. As yet, how-
ever, there is a deadly silence as to when the lady will
trill her bird notes in our ears. We are a kindly and
philanthropic, people, and we do love charity, cheques ;
but we shall be hurt if Melba sends us her cheque but
keeps her notes for others. ,
Two musical folk have decided on a life-long collaboration.
They are Brewster Jones, who has just returned from the
pursuit of piano polish in London, and Gerta, elder
daughter of Justice Homburg. The maiden sings, and
some years ago also went abroad to get a little foreign
culchaw. , , ' _. ,
Parliament left the country to go to the dogs on Friday
morning, while, at Mr. Simpson Newland’s invitation, it
went itself to the lions. The guests were even allowed a
ride on the Zoo elephant without having to paj for it.
His Excellency was also there, and the Council took him
by one hand and the' Ministry by the other, and between
them they showed him the hyena breakfasting on a tram
horse, while the hippopotamus toiled at his washtub.
Altogether it was a nice party, and Parliament slept all
the better for it that afternoon.
The three Castles stars—Amv, that is, and Peter
Dawson and Anderson Nichol—will next month col-
laborate with the Choral Society in the “ Messiah.” This
Choral Society is the one in which Peter Dawson grew
up, and it loves him as a brother. There will be a chorus
of 250 of our best voices to assist the visitors. The per-
formance will be given twice.
Sincerely yours.
JOHANNA.
Commerce, after sticking in the same
groove since Egypt cut its first tooth, proposes to
make a new beginning early next year. The first
regular airship service is to start flying then
between England and the continent of Europe,
and it is to be German-owned. The empire of
the air is waiting to be annexed, and the Teuton
reaches out a hand like a whale sear and mentions
that he intends to be on the spot early.
By “ Floater ” :
During the consideration of the Northern Territory
Bill, politician Mahon woiked a neat, if theatrical, trick
on politician Fowler. Fowler (who is a Westralian), with
one eye fixed on his State and not looking where he was
going with the other, moved an amendment pro-
viding “that the railway to the Territory should
not be commenced until after the Westralian trans-
continental line was completed.” Then Bigjohn
Forrest found himself in a tight place. If the
place had been drinking for three days it could hardly
have been tighter. To vote against the amendment
looked like voting against his State and his convictions,
for Bigjohn puts the Western transcontinental line before
evervthing else. To vote for it was to vote against his
own’ Government. So Bigjohn hurriedly explained to
Fowler just what kind of mess he was making of tilings,
and the man who had rushed in where angels fear to
tread tried to rush out again by withdrawing his amend-
ment. But Mahon objected, so a division had to be
taken, and Bigjohn. wearing the glad expression of one
about to commit murder, voted againt the proposal.
Thus Mahon got a chance to advertise himself as
the real, all-wool advocate of Westralian interests,
and had the joy of poking a stick at Bigjohn
between the bars and hearing the animal roar.
It was amusing, no doubt, but if Fowler’s amendment
had been carried the Northern Territory Bill would have
had to be submitted afresh to the S.A. Parliament, and it
might have been lost this time; and then, after nine
years’work, everything would have had to be commenced
afresh. Even the pleasure of hearing Bigjohn roar
wasn’t wor th it.
The N.S.W. Legislature still plugs away
at Wade’s hopeless Closer Settlement Bi .
main points are these six : (1) It won t break P
any big estates in the vicinity of towns wi -
than 600 people, and about nine-tenths of N.». vv.
towns have less than 600 people. (2) In
of towns with more than 600 people it won t
up any big estate unless the estate is within five
miles ‘of the town. (3) It won t break it upeve
then unless the Government specifically sets tne
machine in motion ; if a thoroughly Tory Govern
ment is in power the measure will produce n
effect at all. (4) It is liable to take five years to
operate even when it is set in motion. ( ) .
do nothing to compel the land monopolist to sell
at a fair price. (6) It will produce no re •
In short, it is the great Bill for Mot Doing Things.
On the 22nd August, 1906, Ernest Mal-
colm Clement, of Melbourne, wedded Helen Eliza,
and on 22nd September—exactly one calendar
month later—Helen Eliza went out to buy some
groceries and forgot to return. After wai
vain, Ernest Malcolm Clement repaired in haste
to the house of Helen Eliza’s mother and there
found Helen Eliza. Helen Eliza had acquired
the groceries, but lacked a satisfactory explana-
tion. She refused to go home with Ernest Mal-
colm Clement. Ernest Malcolm Clement there-
upon went home alone, filled with amazement.
Next day Helen Eliza dropped in for a quarter of
an hour, and remarked that the place was too
dreary. Ernest Malcolm Clement offered to take
another house; Helen Eliza said “All right.
or words to that effect, and went off with the ex-
pressed intention of getting the postponed
groceries and resuming the partnership. Jsut
once again she stayed away. Ernest Malcolm
Clement baited the home with a piano and waited
for a bite; but Helen Eliza didn t bite.
Ernest Malcolm fried his own chops in
the deserted home for three long years, until he
grew tired of waiting for Helen Eliza to come
home and hang up the bonnet of truce. Early in
1909 he came to the conclusion that as Helen Eliza
whs three years overdue, it was about time to post
her missing. He broke up the partly-shattered
home and took steps towards the Divorce Court,
in the hope that he might there find the explana-
tion of his Waratah. He did. A lady gave
evidence that, a night or two before the wedding,
Helen Eliza told her that she would try Ernest
Malcolm Clement, and if she didn’t like him she
would leave him. In this business-like spirit she
allowed Ernest to lead her to the altar, without
informing him that it was only a trial. Justice
Hood listened in silence to the story; then
remarked that it was extraordinary, and cancelled
the deal with a decree nisi. But a decree msi
seems too solemn and ponderous a thing for people
like Ernest and Helen ; a cash register, upon
which “ No Sale” could be hit up, would do just
as well.
“ Oby ” writes :
The English electoral law possesses some curious possi-
bilities. At Wimbledon Bevision Court last month Id
Jesuits applied to have their names placed on the roll.
Lawyers on both sides raged over the matter at great
length, the case for rejection being based on the plea that
the holy men are not allowed to marry—just like the
clerks in many Australian banks. It was, therefore,
argued that they are serfs—not freemen. The boss
Jesuit stated that each man had a room and a
key for his door, and also a latchkey for the
big front door. But counsel asked the chief
Jesuit if the inferior Jesuit couid take anyone he
liked into his room. It seemed that he couldn t. inen
the chief Jesuit was asked if these men received pay for
their services. It seemed they didn’t; all they got was
food, clothes and accommodation. Counsel declared that,
these were also the ear-marks of the African nigger in
slavery davs ; the nigger was behind the priest in not
having a latch-key, but he was ahead of him inasmuch as
he was allowed to marry and bring up little Sambo. The
Jesuits won their case, but it was a Homeric battle, and.
after it was over, the Court had to adjourn till the dust
settled.


COMPLEXION TREATMENTS.
Mile. Rubinstein’s Suggestions for the Summer.
A New Sponsor Every Week.
I . HAVE TRIED YOUR " VACATE
POWRER - A FIND ITS DELIGHTFUL
TO, USE WHILE THE "VALA2E
SKIN FOOD IS A MOTT
VALUABLE PREPARATION c£
1 MOST CERTAINLY
RECOMMEND IT.
/#****>
THE Spring and Summer months are
very trying for the complexion. The
sudden changes from wind to calm,
from heat to cold, throw heavy work on the
skin. Unless it be well toned up and in
perfect order it cannot withstand the beauty-
marring effects of the weather.
At this time of the year Mile. Rubinstein’s
advice on the care of the complexion will be
most opportune.
Many an open-air girl gets health on the
golf links and elsewhere, and getting it loses
a something almost as precious—the distinct-
ive delicacy of her beauty, which lies always
in her complexion.
We cannot control the weather or climate,
so to preserve her complexion a woman must
counteract the beauty-marring influence of
the sun and wind, For this purpose
VALAZE SKIN FOOD
is invaluable. As a skin nourisher, cleanser
and beautifier, Yalaze stands alone.
A lady of high social standing, whose
name, well known to every woman in the
land, discretion forbids to mention, has said :
“ Valaze is as necessary to me as fresh air.”
Why ? Because it yields to the skin active
stimulation, true nourishment and convincing
beauty, ensuring freedom from lines, crow’s
feet and other similar defects. It makes the
skin proof against all vicissitudes of weather
and climate, and the use of it, to produce the
greatest possible benefit, does not make a
greater demand on your time than two to five
minutes a day. It makes freckles disappear,
and sunburn and shallowness. By its use
blotchiness gives way to clearness, softness
and smoothness of skin. You have only
to make Valaze a daily habit, and beauty
of skin will follow as the day the night.
Its use banishes all blemishes and creates
perfect skin beauty. Valaze is sold in jars
at 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., the 6s. 6d. size being
more than three times the quantity of the
3s. 6d. size, and lasting from five to six
months with ordinary usage.
VALAZE POWDER and NOVENA POUDRE.
Madame Rubinstein is the first complexion
specialist to differentiate between the dry,
over-moist, or oily and normal skin when
advising the use of powders. This accounts
for her supplying two distinct varieties—the
Novena Poudre, a “fat” powder for dry
and normal skins, and the Valaze Powder
for greasy skins. In boxes at 2s. and 3s.
VALAZE COMPLEXION SOAP
Contains many of the properties of the
Yalaze Skin Food. It carries into the skin
the glow of health, and gives that trans-
parency and satiny feel which are such typi-
cal results of all the Valaze preparations.
Price, 2s.
VALAZE SNOW LOTION.
This is a superb liquid powder. Valaze
Snow Lotion not only refreshes, cools and
whitens the skin in the hottest weather, but
also enables it to retain that dull ivory finish
so much sought after. It is supplied in
three shades—white, pink and cream—and
the price is 3s. 6d. a bottle.
DR. LYKUSKI’S BLACKHEAD and OPEN
POSE CURE
banishes every trace of this disfigurement.
It closes the enlarged pores, cures a greasy,
coarse skin, and assists in preserving a
healthy complexion. By its use the skin is
effectually cleansed, perfectly braced, and
stimulated to healthy action. Price, 2s. fid.
VALAZE LIQUIDINE.
complexion lotion is probably
the most interesting and remarkable prepara-
tion of the century. It overcomes many
undesirable conditions, amongst which are
enlarged pores, blackheads, undue Hushing
of nose and face, and oiliness of the skin, by
stimulating the pores and producing a finer
and more healthy condition. It should be
applied twice daily, or more frequently, to
lemove dust, powder, or oily secretions.
Bs. fid. bottle.
NOYENA CERATE.
This is an emollient skin cleanser. When
the skin is delicate and sensitive it should
be cleansed with Novena Cerate. It is
rubbed well into the skin, left on for a few
minutes, then rubbed and wiped away with
a soft towel. The result is a delightful skin
bath, such as one finds quite new to one’s
experience. Price, 2s. and 3s. 6d.
NOVENA SUNPROOF and WINDPROOF CREME
affords positive protection to the skin at all
seasons, against the sun as well as the wind.
This preparation prevents freckles, sunburn,
tan and sallowness. Price, 2s. and 3s. fid.
VALAZE LIP LUSTRE
will also be found beneficial for summer use.
It shields the lips from the roughening and
drying effects of the sun and wind. It im-
parts a natural color to the lips, which can-
not be displaced by biting or wetting. 2s.
and 3s.
NOVENA HAIR DESTROYER.
An instant remedy for superfluous hairs.
It cools and soothes, while it cleanses, and
has been declared to possess every quality
which should characterise a perfect depila-
tory. ss. (id.
VALAZE HAIR TONIC
promotes luxurious growth where the
natural process is sluggish. It goes to the
root of hair troubles by keeping the scalp in
antiseptic cleanliness. It preserves and
strengthens the hair, and renders it beauti-
fully soft and glossy. In bottles, 3s. tkl.
VALAZE MASSAGE ROLLERS
exercise the skin, fill out hollows, remove
wrinkles and lines, and give proper facial
development. Overcome excessive flesh
about the face, and a double chin. Full
directions are given free of charge as ter their
use. Used with the Yalaze or Novena
Cerate, the benefit that accrues is most
marked. Single, Bs. 6d. ; set of two,
18s. 6d.; and full set of three, in case, 255.
Madame Rubinstein’s book, “Beauty in
the Making,” deals with every complexion
defect one can be suffering from, and points
the way to its prevention and relief. If you
want this book it will be sent you post free
on application. It tells all you need to
know concerning the attainment and pre-
servation of a perfect complexion. If you
have neglected your complexion so that you
seem to have lost it, there is yet time.
All chemists stock the Valaze preparations.
Orders, inquiries, applications for appoint-
ments or for the book will receive tl e
promptest attention when addressed to
Mile. HELENA RUBINSTEIN PROF
LTD., VALAZE INSTITUTE, 158 Pitt
Street, Sydney, 274 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ; and at Wellington and London.
The man who has the credit of having first
■started Melbourne’s tobacco manufacturing indus-
try, one Carl Edward Schlobach, died in Sydney
a few days ago, aged 88 years. He arrived in
Melbourne 60 years ago, and started to manufac-
ture “the weed ” immediately. Thirty years ago
he kept a winery and tobacco shop in Lygon-
street, Carlton ; but he gave up active pursuit of
these two evils many years ago. He was
originally from Saxony.
“ A WL-YOU-WANT.**
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY GAN USE IT,
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes : Sews
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cot.on.)
J
Carpets, Canvas,. Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc,, with a LOCK-STITCH.
I Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
JS the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing- Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain,
ea. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished Wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—r bent, i straight—x reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, pose tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), ad.
E 2, S Z£ e SL?J, or set of 8 ,or 2S - Seftd post il note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Coiilns Street, Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
u
i
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, I*.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
! M
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending- all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
honestly and without charge.
S.H.HENSHALL,
Kegd. Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use, their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial, they act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
253
m
sc:
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
Catarrh is inflammation of the lining-
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasa. cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do vou
want relief and cure! If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh
Hay fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head!
ache. Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
" la - Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note jos. for Medicator complete
treatment, post free anywhere. *
with 4 months
Address:
Melbourne.
Star Novelty Co., 209-231 Collins Street.
(Box 466, G.P.0.)
ON J?HE HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
bale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W, 7d - other
States, 1/2 The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TRIUMPH OP “ AUSTRALIA’S IDOL,”
NELLfE STEWART,
with a Brief Revival of Paul Kester’s Comedy Drama,
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY
NELLIE STEWART as NELL GWYNN.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Palings.
|JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of A COUNTRY GIRL.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 27,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in fche Musical Comedy,
HAVANA.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
(CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
w Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing' Directors : Clydk Mrynkm, and .John Gunn.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
IN
Plan, Elvy’s.
Shakspeare’s Tragedy,
OTHELLO.
Day Sale, White Rose.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Le.-see and Manager : GEORGE MARLOW.
TRIUMPHANT RETURN of GEORGE MARLOW’S
EXCITING MELODRAMATIC SURPRISE,
THE HEART OE A HERO.
THE ACME OF DRAMATIC EXCELLENCE !
THE APEX OF SENSATIONAL INGENUITY !
POPULAR PRICES : 35., 25., Is. Box Plan on view at
ELVY’S, Reserved Seats, 4s. Day Sale at White Rose
Confectionery. Early Doors to all parts, 6d. extra.
HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
SYDNEY GLACI TRI U M
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
"THE FINEST IN THE WORLD."
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
E>IJOU PICTURE PALACE
° (Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, Jtnd SIXPENCE.
Amusements.
TL V , 0 „ L, THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
MDLLE. DE DIO, Incomparable Dancer.
THREE TRAPNELL SISTERS & BROTHER GEORGE
FRED CURRAN. DOLLY HARMER.
BERTHA STUART. BROWN and ROBINSON
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS, and AUSTRALIA’S
LITTLE TICH.
MR. IRVING SAYLES. MR. FRED BLUETT.
MR. 808 LLOYD. MISS NELLIE POVVEIi.
PRICES—3s.. 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPE0 PE , R £ HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
w hole Proprietor & Manairer, Mr. Harry Rickards.
HASSAN, Indian Magician.
POST MASON, Baritone:.
BERT TERRELL, Comedian and Dancer.
HAROLD PARKES, Eccentric Dancer.
ATHMORE GREY in the Salome Dance.
FRANKO PIPER, Banjo Expert.
ROLAND GEORGE, Musician.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Andkkson.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 27,
BLAND HOLT’S AMUSEMENT 00.
in
THE WHITE HEATHER.
LAST SIX NIGHTS IN MELBOURNE.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
L.JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Lessee and Manager: J. 0. Williamson.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON
has pleasure in announcing
THE DELIGHTFUL COMEDY OPERA,
THE LADY DANDIES.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
T H e ATR E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 27,
Messrs. MEYNELL & GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
—IN—
THE BELLE OE MAYFAIR.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
Glaciarium,
Lessees
MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
•J.4> N. TA I T’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES-WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
\At EST’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
TW THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES
NIGHTLY AT 8.
THE BEST
OF ALE.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices—l/6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle.
Box Plan at Glen s.
Children (id. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C. I/-


THE XMAS GIFT
n4rn*T ndTITT,
Here’s a number of appropriate Gifts.
Write for a copy of our Xmas CATALOGUE.
It,
Is now your principal thought. Mere s * numuer v, «im-m ~ Don , t leave everything till the
contains many valuable suggestions tor Gift-givmg. votl imvv
last. Order at once and avoid possible disappointment.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ HAIR BRUSH,
Real Ebony, Sterling Sil-
ver Mounts, Fine White
Bristles,
1.5/0.
Better Quality, 17/6.
Mirror to match, 20/.
ORDER AT ONCE, SO AS TO AVOID
POSSIBLE DELAY. UP-TO-DATE
ORDER DEPARTMENT CAN SERVE
PROMPTLY AND SATISFACTORILY ■
ALL
MAIL
YOU
A. SAUNDERS.
Imitation Seal PEGGY BAG fitted with Purse,
Mirror, and Salts Bottle, Strongly Made, " ell
Finished,
Other Styles, 4/0, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, to 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKERS’ SET, comprising Highly Polished Nickel
Tobacco Jar and Pipe Rack, Match Holder, and
Crystal Glass Ash Tray (Pipes not included),
156
Other Styles, 20/. 2V/6, 30/, 30/.
WE PAY THE POSTAGE ON ALE GOODS,
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF CLOCKS AM)
CHIN \WA±tE. THIS MEANS A \EIIX BIG
SAVING FOR YOU. ORDER NOW.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES, Pocket Size, Morocco
Covered, Perfectly Adjusted, Enamel-finished
Frame, Achromatic Lenses,
2 K/-.
Other Powers, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, up.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ HAIR BRUSH,
Real Ebony, Sterling Sil-
ver Mounts, Fine White
Bristles,
20/-.
Mirror to match, 22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
INK STAND, Polished Nickel, Crystal Glass Dottle,
Wooden Base,
7/6.
With Crystal Base, 9/6 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Seal Lea-
ther, Green, Black or
Brown, French Calf Lined,
l’ure Silver Mounts,
15 /-•
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING STAND, with Brush,
Soap Bowl, and 6-inch Bevelled
Mirror, Porcelain China Lining,
Other Styles, 15/, ‘2O/, 25/, 27/6, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco STRAP PURSE, Ster-
ling Silver Mounts and Lock,
Extra , Division,
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, to 27/6.
With Sterling Silver Chain,
Same Price. .
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s DRESSING COMPANION, fitted with every
convenience,
10/6- . ~
Larger Size, 25/. Ladies , 21/.
©
, .1
m
Gent.’s SHAVING CO.M-
PANION, Pair First-class
Highly Finished Sheffield
Hollow-ground Razors,
15/6
Higher Gr rie. _’! .
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING STAND, fitted
with Telescopic Mirror, Hot
Water Bowl and Brush,
Cedar Base,
15/-.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 16/,
17/6, 20/, to 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
8-DAY MARBLETTE CLOCK, Strikes Hours and Half-hours, Highly Finished, in three
Styles, with Bronze Furnishings and Pillars; also Gilt and Marbleised,
Other Styles, 25/, 32/6, &7/6, 42/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Ebohised Military BRUSH,
Nickel Mounts,
8/6
Other Styles, 9/6, 10/6.
Cases to hold two Brushes,
•2/6 extra.
A. bAUisiWtri.'
Torpedo Collapsible COLLAR
BOX, in Real Pigskin,
6/6-
In Seal, 7/6.
Ordinary Style, 6/6, 7/6,;8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Ebony Military
HAIR BRUSH, Silver Shield,
7/«-
Larger Sifce, 10/6.
Better Quality, 15/, 17/6.
A. h....
Buckskin TOBAOuO ROUCH,
Sterling. Silver ; Shield,
Rubber Lined,
4/6.
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
8/6, 10/6.
WIUTING FOLIO, Seal Leather, Black or Brown,
fitted with every convenience, Pure Silver Corners,
Nickel Lock, Extra Finish,
13/0 , ,
Other Styles in Grain, Morocco , and Seal, troin
15/ to 75/.
mmms&
sm m
iSE™«S
A. SAUNDERS. . , . . .
MEAT CARVERS, Buck Horn Handles, Carving Knife, Fork, and Steel, m Velvet
Lined Case.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Other Stvles, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 22/6, 25/, 27/6, 30/, 32/6, 35/ 40/, 45/, 50/. A*o
‘ 5-piece Carvers in Ivory, Stag, and Xylonite, fiom 30/ to 60/.
A. SAUNDERS. ;
WRITING CABINET, Covered Polished Grain Leatlier (
fitted everv ■ convenience,
25/-
In Polished Oak, 30/.
In English Oak, up to 75/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel HAIR BRUSH and COMB, Handsomely Em-
-7 bossed, Fine Quality, White Bristles,
in Satin-lined Case,
12/(5 ' ,
Other Styles, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUAJJKRS.
GLOVE MIRROR, Solid
Silver, Cherub or Iris
Design, Richly
-Embossed,
3/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S SET , comprising Cigar and Cigarette Stand, Ash Tray, and
Match Stand, with Plate-glass Base,
37/6-
With Polished Cedar Base, 30/. May be had with Finest Quality
Nickel, Brass, or Copper Mounts.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET-BOOK, Morocco Leather, Silk
Lined, Pure Silver Mounts, Lock, and Shield,
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


w
%
SSft
1
o
:
1
WRI
Sfasgsasg
n
r*j
.* •••
m
i
y
a
—minniiiikiriinifiiij^i^fli
HTj
srn
wm
mm
V/-
\
r
©
©@
in J i
TOR FULL?
APPIX A6EN
OF* *
ALL
■0


ROWLAND’S
KALYDOR
FOR - SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
PlLES.—There is no more distressing and
painful complaint from which you can suffer
than Piles. The most effective cure is BALL AS
BALM. Certain in every case. Obtainable from
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*
POISONOUS HUMORS
In the Blood Overcome by Du. Mouse’s
Indian Root Pills.
Mr. Thomas J. Cranwell, a young farmer of
Rockbank, near Melbourne, writing from the
residence of his parents at Footscray, states how
blood poisoning set in his arm and extended all
over his body, which the doctor’s treatment failed
to counteract. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root I ills,
however, afforded him speedy relief. Ihe result
of the first bottle exceeded his most sanguine
anticipations. Read what he says: ,
“ It is a little over 12 months since 1 suffered
Mr. T. Cranxvell.
(From a photo.)
from blood poisoning, the
result of-a cut on the
right arm, which I
neglected ; and from the
arm it extended all over
my body. I was in a
dreadful state, and the
pain was intense. I was
under the doctor for
months, but I did not
seem to be progressing
under his treatment. At
length, seeing Dr, Mor-
se’s Indian Root Pills
extensively advertised, I
thought I would try
them, and procured a
bottle. The result of
the first bottle was beyond my most sanguine
expectations. I continued taking them until
every trace of the poison had disappeared, and
now I am healthy and in splendid condition to-
day, thanks to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Rills. -I
have recommended them to all my friends, tor l
think there is nothing like them, not only as a
blood purifier, but also as the best remedy for
diseases of the stomach and liver.”
As a perfect blood purifier, Dr. Morse s Indian
Root Pills have a world-wide reputation, and
thousands of instances are on record of their
efficacy to overcome blood disorders. limples,
boils and blotches are minor forms of impure
blood, which, however, should not be neglected.
When the blood is in an unhealthy state, other
ailments are more or less present, for unless the
blood is pure it is lacking in that energy by which
the organs of the body perform their functions.
“SHELL’’
MOTOR SPIRIT
MEANS
Greater Power on Hills
AND
More Miles per Gallon.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES -
West Australian Agents-RICHARD HOLMES & CO- PERTH, KALCOOBLIE and COOtCARDIE.
Bbewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
“ 0.K.”: The first time I saw the late Lionel Brough he
was playing a “ funny ” part in the unique spectacular
extravaganza of “Babil and Bijou” at Covent Garden
Theatre (London). He was also stage manager, it
appears, under the direction of Dion Boucicault pire (the
producer of that recklessly expensive show for Lord
Londesborough, who financed it), so it must have been
“Lai” Brough’s task to preserve discipline among the
480 men, women and children who kept the thing’ going
for 74 months. “ Babil and Bijou ” was a magnificently
foolish piece, and my boyish recollection of Brough, as
the principal comedian, is very vague. I think he
played a magician, one of his best bits of business
bein<>' a wnispered conversation with a turtle.
He "had a larger outlet for his humor when
he played the name part in “ Blue Beard,” a bur-
lesque which LvdiaThompson (Mrs. Bracy’s sister) broug ht
to London from America, with Willie Edouin as the
Heathen Chinee. Lionel Brough at that time—lB74—had
but recently escaped from his long association with J. L.
Toole. They acted together in farcical comedies such as
“ Bib and Tucker,” and although Brough outshone the
old-fashioned mummer in critical estimation he amounted
only to his “ supporter ” on the salary list and the play-
bill ; therefore the fat-headed public in general held him
comparatively cheap. Yet he had shown his artistic
superiority w’hen he made his first London success m
“Dearer than Life” in 1868. The critic of the Stan-
dard wrote : “ Mr. Lionel Brough’s impersonation of the
drunken old sot, Ben Garner, was marvellously worked
out, and at the end of the first act he more than divided
the applause with Mr. Toole.” All things considered,
Lai Brough was an unlucky man in having to wait until
he was well over 40 ere he commanded a star’s salary.
It was his fate to come to light as the friendly rival of
Toole when that most fortunate of comedians had already
made a reputation. As long as Toole, dull as
he might be, held the position of leading prac-
titioner, Brough labored under the disadvantage of
having been junior to the big-wig. When they
were both engaged, together with Samuel Phelps,
Charles Mathews, Hermann Vezin and Harry Montagu in
a famous series of matinCe revivals of old comedies—
“ John Bull,” “The Hypocrite,” etc.-at the Gaiety
Theatre, it was inevitable that in that “ All Star Com-
pany,” of which Phelps was the “ heavy lead,” Lionel
Brough should have to play a subordinate part to Toole.
The veteran who died the other day was an advanced
humorist when in the prime of his powers, and he kept
abreast of the times as he grew older. Still he was
growing old ere his name loomed its largest. The
celebrity he won was less in sum total than the well
deserved celebrity which he missed.
“Thespis”: At first sight the question of abolishing
the British dramatic censorship has nothing to do with
Australia, but on reflection it will be found to have a
good deal. The Parliamentary Commission of inquiry
has just reported. All the British plays that Australia
sees have been filtered by the Censor. It is remarkable
what bits of dirt in the musical comedies get through his
colander, and have to be cut out in Australia. He is
very indulgent to the double entendres that are relished
by the London stalls. The Commission was mainly set
afoot by the protest of Bernard Shaw against three of his
plays being banned. Granville Barker joined him, also
Barrie, though apparently not a sufferer. Pinero and
Jones don’t seem to be enthusiastic on the point, to the
extent of Shaw and Barker. On the other hand, Beer-
bohm Tree, Alexander, and all, or nearly all, the mana-
gers support the censorship. They say, “ Let us have the
danger off our mind before going to expense.” Of course,
with freedom, there might be disastrous prosecutions after-
wards, either by the State or by rich private individuals
of a Puritanic turn. The Bishop of Southwark gave
evidence. He thought the embargo on Scriptural plays
might be removed. This stopped the London production
of Walters’ “Joseph of Canaan,” acted by Rignold in
Australia, The Commission resolved : (1) That the cen-
sorship should be in the hands of a committee ; (2) that
free production without any censorship be allowed,
subject to prosecution. In America there is no censor-
ship, but prosecutions occur, as witness Bernard Shaw’s
“ Mrs. Warren,” etc. Every American play seen in
Australia has been remarkably clean, such as “The
Squaw Man,” “In Mizzoura,” “Man from Mexico,”
“ Bishop’s Carriage,” etc. Yet atrocities are produced in
New York which would hardly be tolerated in Paris. The
London Censor has only prohibited 40 plays out of 7000.
Shaw and Barker appropriately point to the host which
feared to approach the Censor. The question is nice.
Suppose a play was produced in London without having
passed the Censor. An Australian manager might go to
very great expense producing it in Sydney or Melbourne,
and be met by a prosecution, although there had been
none in London. So I fancy those managers are all for
keeping up the censorship. I never heard of any pro-
hibited play which they would have dared (or cared) to
produce. (Possibly Kyrle Bellew’s literal translation of
“ Erancillon,” presented to Mrs. Potter by Dumas fils,
would have been prohibited in London.) When “The
Spring Chicken” and “Veronique” were in Australia
there were grumblings by strict people and underground
threats of prosecution, but lawyers said of these and
other works: “It is not the slightest use expecting a
verdict when a piece has been approved by the Lord
Chamberlain.”
“0.K.”: The realistic blackness, or dark brownness,
of Oscar Asche’s Othello impresses one from the jump.
Previous Moors of Venice have been as palpably bogus as
the Christy Minstrels of yore. The old “legitimate”
tragedians were, in some cases, guilty of sooted “ side-
boards” on their blackened faces, and they walked and
talked like whiskered white men. But Asche, as Othello,
is just It. The touch of bombast, natural to the self-
satisfied “ nigger,” is in his gait and dusky speech when
lie appears before the Senate. “I do beseech you send
for the lady to the Sagittary, and let her speak of me
before her father.” The man’s passion for Desdemona
sprang from his self-love. The colored person is proud of
having mashed the white gal, and his subsequent
jealousy is embittered by savage misgivings re his age
and color. You fancy that Othello would not have been
quite so furiously jealous if Cassio had been another
darkie. Accepting Asche as a nigger, the audience feels
that his vanity is horribly wounded by the thought of a
white man cutting him out so easily. His acting con-
vinces because it has the color of the character ingrained.
The most immediate result of Eugenie Duggan’s recent
return from Europe will be her appearance as Ophelia to
the Homleet of Walter Bentley at the Anderson theatre
in Melbourne. Bentley’s fine elocution is not so sug-
gestive of the bonnie bonnie heather as in the days when
a malicious critic charged him with impersonating the
character of Mcßichelieu, but he is still a bit on the
braw Caledonian side. Miss Duggan’s elocution, as every-
body knows, was invented by herself. It is melodramatic
English trained on a Hibernian-Australian foundation.
But Considering that all the people in “Hamlet” are
Danes, they are probably' entitled to speak the language
of Shakspeare with any sort of unbroken accent (save the
Yankee) that comes natural to them. The only naturally
anachronistic accent in a Shakspearian performance is
the American variety, which wasn’t born when William
wrote his blank verse! Of all the Ophelias who have gone
mad on a Melbourne stage the most impossible was Louise
Jordan, the wife of Geo. Miln. She, MbeCourt of
through her nose until it seemed that the
Denmark must be in Noo Yark.
Rupert Clarke has been fixing up things in
connection with the Clarke, Meynell and Gunn W
sequent on John Gunn’s death. Milton Bode, a
manager, who has been a sleeping partner in t n
“Hook” and other musical-comedy shows, will take
bigger interest in the concern, and is t 0 ent
early next year ; and St. John Denton the London agent
who stood in with the Clarke firm in the
season, will also come here. The idea. at the ba
Rupert Clarke’s head was that, if Bode Joined the him
its Australian business, the firm might jom Bode in
running a London theatre ; but that end of the scheme
hasn’t been rounded off yet.
Edwin Geach writes :-The poured appetite of the
public for pictures, alleged by *.C. (B. 18/11/ ”)>
supported by evidence in either Melbourne or Sydney.
So far from going off the food offered by picture caterers,
the public still wolfs this fare. The business, has never
been so solid, and anyone who roves rouna an'ghtuitn
his amusement money in his hot hand knows that the
late-comer has to take worse seats at these cnt
ments than at others. The effect is also to be noticed on
the expansion of the biz. West s, the biggest pur J >
is branching out in all directions. This concern h
permanent shows in all the Australian State capitals
owns its own theatres in Melbourne and Adelaide i i
building a theatre in Wellington (M.L. -all presumably
on the profits of the boom. “ F.C.” couldn’t have been at
the West’s show in Melbourne on Cup night when money
was tamed away. And as to the charge of fake he ft
against picture inventors, the men who origina
are no more open to the charge than are authors o p . •
Both have to rely on their imagination, and both have to
consider how far the medium is practicable. It so
pens that animated photography can take the imagina-
tive person farther than stagecraft without the semblance
of reality being sacrificed. Therefore this aspersion
doesn’t asperse.
The proposal to build a theatre on the spot recently
vacated bv Mark Foy, in Oxford-street, Hyde Park, by d-
ney, recalls that 30 years ago an attempt was made to
build one on almost the same spot, at the c " n !^ l
Oxford-street and Liverpool-street. Mr. P. Belheld, an
old actor, had the scheme in hand; but when the walls
got up 10ft. the funds of Belfield’s co. gave out, and the
bricks went to build cottages for the ground landlord,
Sydney Burdekin.
Brisbane is to have yet another biograph theatre, the
Wests having decided to build a home of their own. the
locality, opposite Victoria Bridge—has had a varied
career. Originally it was an old convict rendezvous ; it
you dig there you are still liable to knock the corner off
the spade with a leg-iron. Then it fell into the hands
of the Anglican Church ; and was transmogrified
into a swell hash-house. The hash-house grew into a pub
—the Longreach hotel. But the Church had a moral
spasm and, being the landlord, let the license drop.
Next a row of shops was built. It may finish up by being
a Japanese temple of Buddha-Chrysanthemum.
“0.K.”: The Taits have undertaken a pretty big risk
n arranging a second Australian tour of the “Besses’
Band so soon after the first one. With the novelty worn
off them, the Besses are very unlikely to repeat their
boom Where there is no boom in a particular kind ot
musical stock, an utter failure is more probable than a
moderate success. Yet the Taits are confident that the
Besses will be,, at least, a steady draw. They argue that
a first-class brass band can never be put into the cold
shade by public neglect, like a clever violinist, pianist or
orchestra. Male Philistines who are indifferent to the
“marvellous technique” of a fiddler, or the “tone pic-
tures” of an orchestra, are always susceptible to the
music of the band. Every man is at heart a bandsman.
The small boy who is father to the adult loves to bang a
toy drum and blow a tin trumpet. The human male is a
blowful, bangful animal, and a fine brass band appeals to
his heart, say the Taits. It is also a fact that the heart
of the Australian man is desperately fickle, and subject
to remarkable revulsions of feeling as regards revivals of
popular entertainments.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The fourth round of First Grade Cricket re-
sumed in Sydney on Saturday, and saw the unexpected
fall of Petersham at the hands of Burwood. Burwood
made 123 in the first innings, and the miserable score
looked very hopeless, but when Petersham got to the
wickets Docker took four for 30 and Smith four for 50,
and the inning's ended for a beggarly 110 ; so Petersham
lost on the first innings and stepped down from the head
of the competition. Glebe took the vacant place,
having wrecked Sydney with the narrow margin of
26 runs on the first innings. This put it at the
top with six points, and behind toil Central
Cumberland, Middle Harbor and Burwood with
four points each. Balmain and Petersham have three
each, and North Sydney two. After that the less
said the better. The'startling defeat of the day was that
of Gordon by University. The students won by 206 runs
on the first innings, having made a total of without
one man getting a century. The highest score was
Ducker’s 75. Central Cumberland gave Redfern even
worse treatment, but the quality of the defence was not
expected to be so good. Nevertheless the Syrian suburb
went down by 228 on the first innings, the figures being
382 to 154. Balmain also scored a first-innings’ victory
over Paddington, with a margin of 149 ; and Middle Harbor
scored similarly over YVaverley by 183.
The individual stniters of the day were Middle-
ton, of Middle Harbor, who smacked 179 ; Diamond, of
Burw'ood, who in the fruitless second innings made 108,
and Taylor, of the same club, who made 103.* It was a
remarkable innings, six wickets yielding 352 rUns—none
of which counted in the match. The other century
getter was Collins, of Glebe, who, also in a second innings,
carried his bat for the exact century. Among the
bowlers Mackenzie, of Waverley, who took three Middle
Harbor sticks for 19 runs, and O. Docker, of Burwood,
who took four Petersham wickets for 30, were the best.
« * * *
Owing to the intermittent weeps of Heaven on
the previous day, Melbourne Pennant cricket was a cir-
cumstance of little levity last Saturday. Most of the
grounds had suffered from Heaven’s grief, so that most
of the matches betrayed less activity than a local peeler
chasing a clue. University was top scorer, compiling 221
against St. Hilda, which has begun its reply with 39 for
no wickets. Five sticks for 152 is North Melbourne’s
answer to Richmond’s ferocious total of 111 ; and seven
for 73 is Northcote’s ditto to Collingwood’s compilation
of 115. Carlton demolished Melbourne for 157, and has
started a vigorous response with 23 for two wickets ;
while EssendOn, after dismissing Fitzroy for 149, has made
a pleasant commencement with 42 for no wickets. The
struggle of the day, however, was that begun between
P’ran, last season’s premiers, and East Melbourne, the
premiers of many previous seasons. P’ran aggregated
172, and East has, so far, hit up 40 for the loss of one
batsman, left for dead upon the field.
» • * * *
Cricketer W. Cameron, of Singleton (N.S.W.),
stepped into the limelight last week by smacking up 140
runs in 20min., making 17 sixers off 19 balls in lOmin. T.
Howard, of Waverley, was the bowler, and he is now
wondering .which is the phenomenon—he or Cameron.
In Port Jackson, on Saturday, the wind was
from E.N.E. and blowing freshly, for the Royal Yacht
Squadron’s ocean race for the Gascoigne Cup. The new'
vacht Culwulla 11., with 57min. start, romped home, and
fulfilled the promise made in the struggle for the North-
cote Challenge Cup, when on the maiden trip the little
craft demonstrated that it was a flyer. Owing to some-
thing like a volcano raging in his timber-yard, Mr. Saxton
did not take Awanui to sea, so Rawhiti, with smin. start,
was the back marker. Petrel led the way to Bradley’s,
and then the towering Rawhiti soared past, and held
pride of place through the^Heads and away to South
Reef. The run back w'as a splendid sight, every boat
flying- ballooners, with the big Rawhiti in the van. So
fast they flew that they left the club steamer behind.
Rawhiti led right home, followed by Petrel, White Wings,
Yeulba and Culwulla, in that order. But when the
handicaps were adjusted, it was found that the last was
first, and Rawhiti was second, with Petrel third.
* * * *
The crop of cyclists in Australia shows no sign
of diminishing, and a Novice Race by N.S.W. Cyclists’
Union last Saturday drew the amazing field of 230 riders.
The horde was divided into four tribes, and the roads out
Homebush way were one mass of wheeler. And the
curious part of the business is that the professional
cyclists can’t get a race for a cash prize, while the
amateur bodies are swamped by bikers anxious to ride
like the Devil for a medal. Is it not a strange world ?
» * » *
Think of it: 63 miles 255vds. on a bike in an
hour 1 Seems impossible. And yet that is the rate at
which Paul Guignard swept round a European track in
the vortex of a pacing motor. Later on, at Berlin, in the
paced championship of Europe race, he, Walthour, Robl,
Dickentmann, Theile and Schipke all took part. Wal-
thour, the Yankee, paced by Lawson, went to the front
with a bound ; but Guignard cut him down. Theile came
like the whirlwind, and went to the front till the 18th
mile had been reeled off. Then he gave place to old Robl,
who plugged away in the van till the 40th mile was spin-
ning towards them. At that point Guignard went ahead
and stayed there, followed closely by Schipke, 400yds.
behind. Guignard had covered the 62£ miles in lhr.
18min. 41sec.
* * * *
The number of Australian-made tyres grows
confusing, and one wants a reference book handy to make
sure he has the right hang of the name. In a recent issue
Salvana was said to have ridden Wallace Continental
tyres on his record-breaking ride from Sydney to Mel-
bourne. Seems there is no such tyre on the market; it
was the plain “ Continental” tyres that Salvana’s machine
was shod with.
* * * *
Every year the Melbourne Bicycle Club tries
to resuscitate the dying interest in the Austral Wheel
Race by crowding some outside sensation into its pro-
gramme of biking. This year it promises a competition
for aeroplane models in addition to the faded old menu of
biking events. Also, it talks of arranging some balloon
ascents ; so aviation is really the principal item, and
biking is only the elderly side-show. And it is just as
well that it is thus. As a principal dish, these days,
biking would hardly lure a long-sentence prisoner out of
gaol, even if the gate was left open.
The Automobile Club of France is anxious to
revive the motor Grand Prix next year, and will take a
referendum among manufacturers on the subject. It is
proposed to hold a race of 500 miles, under best and best
conditions, open to all cars without limitation as to bore,
stroke or weight. The present year of inaction has
brought about a revulsion of feelingin favor of fast racing
as a means of popularising and advertising the motor-car.
Even the Marquis De Dion, always a strong opponent
hitherto, has withdrawn all objection, and talks of start-
ing some of his firm’s cars in the event should it tran-
spire. This will be the first absolutely open race, and the
result will probably be a few freak cars and, perhaps,
some wonderful performances.
A school of sharks raided the Sydney ocean
beaches last week in search of surf-bathers, penetrating
the breakers and coming right in on the look-out appar-
ently for mere paddlers. But the surfite has a keen eye,
and is rapidly developing an eighth sense, which prods
him in the small of the back when a shark is in the
vicinity. The surf-bathers increase enormously, and on
a recent Sunday no less than 10,000 were estimated to
have been on the beach during the day. Who counted
them writer knows not; but evidently the word thereof
has been spread broadcast in sharkdom, and there is a
general migration towards the beaches of the Ma State
capital. #
Although after a space of three years the N.S.W.
team has brought the Mars Buckley tennis trophy to
Sydney, there is no disguising the fact that the removal
was due to the fact that Norman Brookes stood out of the
Cabbage Garden team. Otherwise history had had a
different tale to tell. The Victorian ladies, however,
avenged their State, and walloped both N.S.W. and South
Australia. « * .
An ancient ped. popped up in Westralia re-
cently in the form of W. J. Hackford. It was the Wes-
tralian Marathon, and the veteran, who is 51 years of age,
was mentioned honorably among the “other starters.”
In the years a-fear he was a mighty stepper, and won the
50-mile walk at Sydney Exhibition in 1885. He also
annexed first places in many six-day events in Melbourne,
Tasmania and other parts of the continent. But Time
has done deadly work, and the once mighty is now among
those who “also ran.”
Although the terms have not been divulged, it
is common report that the N.S.W. Rugby League has for
the next season a number of Sydney grounds that
hitherto were bound to the Rugby Union. North Sydney
is said to be one, and a high enclosure is being erected,
so that the wight who will not pay shall not see. Pre-
sumably the North Sydney Ground will be the League’s
centre for the northern suburbs. It is hard to say if
there is any reason for joy in the fact that the League is
shaking the Union’s monopoly of grounds. The Union
seems to have acted in a very liberal spirit to other bodies
which were not opposition football concerns ; and the
recent upheaval in the League suggests that it is likely
to be a worse monopolist than the Union if it gets the
chance.
« * * •
From Maori land Police Commissioner Dinnie’s
annual report Cases of burglary have increased by
126, and theft by 228. This has resulted partly through
the influx to the Dominion of an unusual number of Aus-
tralian criminals, and I ascribe this in a degree to the
licensing of bookmakers and the indiscriminate granting
of betting licenses by racing authorities, which has in-
duced a number of undesirables to become bookmakers,
who, with their followers, when not engaged in book-
making, resort to crime... The provisions of the Gaming
Act as regards the use of the totalisator are eminently
satisfactory. If bookmakers are to be licensed to bet at
race meetings (a. provision which from a long and varied
experience of racing I could not support) the law
should provide that none but those holding a certificate
of fitness from a magistrate—on the report of the police
or thechief of police—of the district concerned, should be
licensed. Nor should anyone be permitted to act as a
bookmaker at any race meeting whatsoever unless he
holds such license.” One thing about the totalisator
anyway—the police have never vet had to arrest it between
races on suspicion of being Bill Sikes or George Barrington.
* * •
A glimmer of light was thrown on one of life’s
mysteries last week. Someone in Perth (W.A.) delved
into the Income Tax returns, and found that in 18 months
bookmakers as “non-resident traders” had paid £405,
representing a total taxable income for the period of
£32,340—0r £21,560 for the year. The average number
operating in the West is three dozen ; and 36 into
£21,560 gives an average of just on £6OO.
A shilling book which threatens to circulate
like influenza in all countries where the language of
stoush is spoken has been compounded and published by
Frank Hayes, of Melbourne. The sanie enterprising
citizen published a handy little book of commercial law
last year, but since then his taste in literature has become
corrupted, seemingly. His latest and most appallingly
successful venture is a history of all the “ Champions of
the Ring, from Tom Sayers to Jack Johnson.” The title
is, in fact, an understatement of the contents of the
volume, for it opens with the story of how John Jackson
punched Mendoza to a finish in 1795, and.it deals in a
light and gory style with other bare-knuckled battlers
previous to little Tom Sayers. The stuff has been very
well selected. Eighty portraits of broken-nosed heroes
are included with the letterpress, and, as a book of refer-
ence,, “ Champions of the Ring ” will take precedence of
the Bible in many a home. The publisher dreams of
selling about a million copies in America.
Maoriland takes its football with deadly seri-
ousness. Last season Marlborough more or less
fluked a win against Auckland, and Marlboroughs
head swelled amazingly. Now Marlborough has had its
jubilee as a settlement; and to get ready for the celebra-
tions it had vast quantities of stationery printed headed
“ Marlborough : The Place that Beat Auckland at
Football.” It was apparently the one thing of any con-
sequence that had happened in the unwise province
during 50 years.
THE SHOOTING BISHOP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I once won a cup for shooting as a member of the
Oxford Volunteer Corps—a body that gave me a love for
volunteering, which has lasted to this day. —Anglican
Archbishop Wright.
Crack ! Crack ! Oh ! hear the rifle of the Bishop at the
butts!
Hear the whistling of the bullets as they hurtle towards
the bull 1
Hear the cheering in the trenches and the markers’
armored huts
When they see the target’s optic is unusually full!
There’s the clink of shells exhausted on the far eight-
hundred mound
When the grim ecclesiastic on his broadcloth apron lies
With the howitzers and canons reverently gathered
round,
With Hosannahs in their muzzles for the harvest of
bull’s-eyes.
Crack ! Crack ! The merry music of the Bishop’s rifle
rings,
And it crackles out a sermon on the duty of the race ;
’Tis the soloist and chorus, and the anthem that it sings
Is entitled “ Practise with Me and You'll Keep the
Foremost Place ”;
A ridiculous falsetto does the Bishop’s rifle own,
But it means the things it utters, and it isn’t safe to
stray
Whilst its sentiments are flying, for that even monotone
Is a promise of destruction to all Evil in the way.
Crack ! Crack ! The shiv’ring Devil hears the bullets
whizzing by,
And he shuts the door of Sheol and decides to stay,
within
Till the gleaming rifle-barrel and the coldly-aiming eye
Have both disappeared for ever from the rifle range of
Sin.
Yes, the crook is almost harmless and the gaiters are a
joke,
Whilst the doctrine can be taken with a pinch of Dead
Sea salt;
But the leaden preacher’s whistle o’er the cinders and the
coke
Makes the agitated Devil bring his forces to a halt.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


m
nK
ft
YOU’LL RECOGNISE
the veracity of our claims for perfect Cycle-building when
. you start riding a
B. and B. MODEL 3 CYCLE,
a perfect machine -for comfort and wear, fitted with the
highest class tyres and guaranteed a year.
Price £ll.
Write for a Free Catalogue, mentioning this paper.
Our Pitt Street Depot is open every Friday till 9 p.m.
BENNETT & BRRKELL,
“ Largest Cycle Building-
House in the State,”
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagti Street,
Sydney
ANDREW
McGEE
"IXTHAT to Give ? What more acceptable
present can you give a friend than a
good Pipe ? This one will cost you 4VG,
posted 3d* extra. Hundreds of others to
select from. ORDER NOW.
Sydney's Leading Tobacconist and
Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 Castlereagrh Street, cr. Hunter Street, Sydney.
SALOON OPEN ALL BAY
WEDNESDAY.
CAPILLARINE
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
\
CAPILLARINE NEVER FAILED YET!
As a moustache producer and improver, we have received the most
excellent testimonials from men who used it. We know of no case
of fa.urCAPILLAR INK is a perfect moustache-food, strengthen
ing the roots, and makes the hair bright and glossy.
PRICE 10/6 a Jar,
START USING IT TO-DAY.
POSTED FREE Anywhere.
Craig- & Aitken, 654 George St*, SYDNEY*
Est.ahlished 25 Years.
IS
v
J
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT RIFLE NO. 14
the right rifle for the youngest boy.
Parts attached to action itself, making it very simple. Weighs 2'/ 2 pounds.
Chambered for .22 Long-rifle R. F. Cartridges. Will a'so shoot .22 Long
R. F. and .22 Short R. F.
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
t 6
/
SVE
5
£
its re
close
est
agai
CettMg the cream is literally accomp
easily and successfully by getting a “Svea”
Prokjf positive of the lasting qualities of t
irkable lightness of running, and the e.
jss of its skimming * is yours for the a
jrs of any machine obviously possess
ossible qualifications to pass judgmen
st it.
jers of the “Svea”—and their name is
ye nothing but enthusiastic praise for it
ztting the cream, and getting ALL of it, is
\tter of getting a “Svea.”
letting a “Svea” of a capacity to suit
trements, and getting it on exceptionally
is, and at a remarkably reasonable price, i
est matter imaginable.
ill that is necessary is IMMEDIATE applicati
-hi
hed most
\e par at or.
Svea,”
'ptional
ng.
\e high-
er or
gion”
erely
VARM, =
WEET ft
Skim
Milk
International Harvester Company
of America (. Incorporated.)
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Launceston
Scores of shrewd Separator Buyers
are now getting ABSOLUTELY FREE
1 dozen Dixon’s Best Quality E.P. Tea
and £ dozen Dessert Spoons.
Send for pamphlet describing this
handsome present that you could not
possibly buy under £2-15-0.
(285) 4S
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stocß and Station Agents,
CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED ...
PAID-UP
RESERVE FUND
£4,000,000
£3,000,000
£520,000
£300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing; Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
Missing- Friends.
BENSON JOHN.
I AST heard of at Monavvai Leases, West
J Australian Gold Fields, 1900. If living,
communicate with undersigned, when you will
hear of something to your advantage. If dead,
anyone knowing of death communicate with
F. LYNNE ROLIN, Solicitor,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Senate committee that is looking into
the mysteries of the Cable Combine gathers
curious information at times. One of its most
interesting witnesses to date has been the ex-
proprietor of a Geelong (Vic.) paper, who alleged
that the Combine charged him more for his.cables
while cables were cheap than it did. while cables
were dear. For example, in 1886 he paid £l2B per
annum for his; cable service when the cable rate
was 3s. fid. or 4s. a word ; but in 1906 he was asked
£I7S per annum for the same service when the rate
had slid down to Is. a word. The Combine is
solid on the fact that it is a liberal-minded
organisation which makes hardly any profit out of
its monopoly, though it won’t produce its accounts
to prove it. Yet it seems that it wits' either
nhiking a stupendous loss on this man in 188(5 or
a perfectly Hebrew rate of profit out of him in
190(5.
This letter appeared in a Sydney paper
last week :
A SUGGESTION FOR STOPPING THE COAL STRIKE.
Sir,—As the farmers and pastoralists are now fairly
well organised and joined up in unions, I wish to suggest
that they should bring matters to an end at once by
ordering a stoppage of all wheat and meat supplies! to the
Sydney and Maitland markets. Bread and meat are even
more necessary to the community than coal, so that if
the producers of these commodities decide to withhold
supplies till after Christmas they will have the miners,
as well as the public, at their mercy, and can exact their
own terms.—Yonrs, etc., W. E. ABBOTT.
VVingen, N.S.VV., November 17.
P S —We are law-abiding people, and will help the
police to keep order—if we get all we want.—W. E. A.
Seeing that the Sydney people are not coal-
strikers, this proposal to starve the city in
addition to its other troubles seems ,rather
uncalled for. If it did come off the’people of
Sydney would probably retaliate by organ-
ising a police strike. Then “Wingen” would
have to defend his homestead himself when 1000
infuriated men came inquiring about beef.
»
Smooth Bore
vOuction Hose
THERE ARE
SO OTHER HOSES
■ 30 OOObM|
CARDEN - DEUVERY-SUCIION-3TEAM
AIR S BREWERS HOSES
Arc Urveoualled for Quality a Price
'NLOP R-BBFft CO; Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z.


&
X
THE
WORLD’S BEST
TYRE.
3
m
e
Admitted by the
most famous Motorists
to be without rival.
TYRES
remain unequalled in all
essentials that make for
perfection in Tyres.
&
o
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.,
234 Clarence Street, Sydney.
289, 291, 293 Sxvanston Street, Melbourne.
AnH nil Swtx.
a
PS
£
If You Just Miss a Motor Car
by a hair’s breadth, that would be no closer shave than
the PLUM RAZOR will gave you seven days in a week.
We are practical hairdressers, and use the PLUM
ourselves. Do you want a stronger guarantee ? We
guarantee and keep it in order two years free of charge.
Posted free to
any address.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor In Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, Od
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established ‘25 Years.
A MONEYMAKER for Hotelkeepers.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Sodawater at 3d. per dozen.
We guarantee the Machine to do the work.
A FORTUNE for ENTERPRISING HOTELKEEPERS
Complete Outfits from £l5. Sold on Easy Terms.
Soda Fountains and Carhona'tors to suit Chemists and
Confectioners. Write to-day.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.,
167 GEORGE STREET, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
That
name
rl only
that name—on your Sadoie can ensure
reai Cycling' comfort —that comfo't upon
which depends your health and happiness
whjTthey “SAY 6 BROOKc,? yclists this that is
* oAY BROOKS so persistently—and it is the
strongest reason why you should do so too.
Stocked by all Agents Saddle Manual
free from
J. B. BfiOOKS & CO. LTD.,
The Saddle Specialists,
BIRMINGHAM,
ENGLAND.
CORD
TYRES
are Better —Stronger —and More Durable Tyres
than all others .
Their immense popularity with Motorists is suf-
ficient reason why YOU should investigate their
merits before coming to a buying decision •
Catalogue and Price List on application.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY
279 George Street, Sydney.
TRY 8T IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
M.M. THE KING.
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubh & Co. on each Bottle.
Let Me Cure
Your Rupture
Rupture is one of the most distressing afflictions to which human flesh is heir,
and frequently the suggested remedies are as bad as the trouble itself.
Trusses are now recognised as obsolete and useless. Don’t you waste your time,
your patience or your money on them. Come direct to the only recognised cure in
the world —
THE DR. J. A. SHERMAN TREATMENT
which instantly relieves and speedily effects a permanent cure.
That is a big claim, but it is faithfully borne Out by hundreds of men and women
who have been cured of the most aggravated forms of rupture.
Note this extract from one former sufferer. What has been done for him may
be done for you.
Glebe Road, Sydney,
Dear Sir, October 1. 1909.
I th night I would write and let you know of the very s itisfactory
cure I received of a rupture from your treatment about five years ago.
I was only six weeks under your treatment, a id I have not had the
slightest feeling of the trouble since. I have d >ne heavy work since then,
and am now over 05 years of age. Yours very gratefully,
(Ya ne supplied on request).
Surely such testimony must convince you that there is something in the treat-
ment ! Come and let us give you further proof. Consultations are free, and if you
cannot possibly call, write for two descriptive books which are sent free.
HOURS: —Daily (Sundays exciepted), 10 a.in. to 12 noon ; 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturdays, 10 a.in. to 12 noon. Extra hours : Friday evenings, 7to 9.
A. W, MARTIN
Sole Controller in Australasia of the
Dr. J. A. Sherman Treatment,
D 2)l. B, GIBBS’ CHAMBERS, 7mm STREET, n2ir thz G.P.0., SYDNEY.
S. Australia had a large slice of bad luck
the other day when a mischievous fire destroyed
one of the big manufacturing works that it has
most right to be proud of—the Portland Cement
Co.’s place at Brighton. For nearly 20 years the
co. has been battling away on the hillside over-
looking Charles Kingston’s old home ; but it is
only during the last few years that it got into
a comfortable position and persuaded people
that the dirt you stick bricks together with
needn’t be imported at tremendous cost from
the other end of the earth. Unfortunately
it climbed up on to a hill so as to be to the
stone it needed, and the water-supply in S. Aus.
has the old bad habit of refusing to rush updiill
even to save a fine manufacturing plant. The
works will go up again, no doubt; but meantime
many building jobs will have to hang themselves
up temporarily.
The fat aldermen and councillors of
Melbourne city are a humorless lot. The other
day one of them proposed floating a “dust pre-
vention loan ” to cope with the evil that causes
more bad language than ever Judkms can hope to
suppress; and the dreadful councillors solemnly
considered it for an hour before regretfully passing
it out. The trouble about Melbourne’s dust is
that the worst of it floats along from the Far North ;
and until the aldermen and councillors and their
kind leave off sympathising with the loafing
landlord of the North, and of the country in
between, Melbourne hasn’t much chance of
escaping from its dust-storms. Irrigation wherever
land can be irrigated, close cultivation where
land can be cultivated that way, and abundant
tree-planting in other places will do more for
Melbourne than millions of Cohen’s money spent
on any local schemes.
“Lantana” : The Methody conventicle at
Bondi Junction, Sydney, is being pulled down to
make room for a bank. It is now 65 years since a
building to put Methodists in on Sunday was first
erected in Waverley. That was the little chapel
in Newland-street, opened by Parson D. J.
Draper, whose bones have rested for a generation
on the floor of the Bay of Biscay. His pulpit is
still preserved. Before 1844 the sect worshipped
at Providence Villa, then the home of Joseph
Vickery, who was just the sort of man to name his
house like that. Barring any casual devotions that
our black brother Binghi may have offered up to
devils, Methodism was the first recorded form of
worship at Waverley; but as the bush was
cleared away Anglicans and R.C.’s hastened to
the spot, and the kangaroo fled in affright from
the sounds of dissension. The Methodists out-
grew their little chapel, and in 1859 they opened
a larger place of Sabbath business. They ex-
panded some more in 1888. It is the chapel of
1859 that has been sold to the flesh and the Devil
and the overdraft. The preacher (Rev. J. G-.
Turner) who officiated in it 50 years ago lives in
Melbourne, and still keeps ahead of the Scythe-
bearer.
Harvesting is about to commence in Vic-
toria, and the aggregate farmer is already on the
howl that he can’t get enough labor to help him
in cutting his crops. What startles him particu-
larly is that, though there are unemployed in
Melbourne, he can’t beguile many of them to take
up his open-air job. It seems to suggest that
there is something wrong either with the farmer
or with the out-of-works. Probably if the farmer
stopped throwing such huge salaries about things
would improve. He can’t expect men to make a
rush for his jobs when they are afraid of being
blinded by the glare of the wages.
By the Oldest Inhabitant
An ao'ed corner (if any one corner is really older than
another; presumably all corners were created on the
First Day) is on the market—the south-east angle of
Bridge and George streets, Sydney. There is a pub on it,
of course—the Metropolitan—and three shops. A hun-
dred years ago Garnham Blaxcell, one of the three who
built the Rum Hospital (again does drink crawl into the
narrative) owned this place. The Lumber Yard was then
immediately to the south. (There was no drink sold in
the Lumber Yard.) In 1850 John Hiney kept the corner
house as the Castle Tavern (here this paragraph starts a
career of steady drinking). From Hiney it pursued its
beer-stained career in the hands of Jean Joseph Ralph.
(At, that time Waugh and Cox were bookselling in the
third shop from the pub, and Sheriff and Armstrong
booksold there after them.) For a while the corner be-
came a nautical instrument emporium (drinking
temporarily suspended) kept by T. T. Mathews
who H decked the outer premises with a figure
of a sailor “shooting the sun by means of a
sextant. (This process had no relation to what > s called
«* ehnotimr the moon.”) In the late 70 s, drinking
resumed at the old address under William Camb, who
was captain of a fire brigade as well asa publican. Tne
corner has been drinking ever since. Bill Nash, king of
gamblers, once owned the place, and it is understood to
have gone as a dowry to his daughter.
“M.A.” on the inspection of coal mines
and other matters :
When a man or boy gets injured or killed in a N.S.W.
coal mine, the duty of the manager is to at once notify
the Government Inspector of Mines.
The regulation provides that nothing—well, nothing
except the removal of the “ stiff” —must, be done at the
scene of the accident until that official has made an
inspection. , ,
This regulation is not always too religiously observed.
The “scene of the accident” is sometimes all the better
for a little cleaning up, so the “ under bosses ” bog in at
it quietly with axes and saws and shovels and some props
and maybe an odd pick or so. And by the time the Govern-
ment Inspector comes along the scene of the accident has
a wonderfully safe and rejuvenated look. In fact, a man
who had helped to dig out the accident or the corpse, as
the case might be, would not now recognise it as the
same scene.
Only “ deputies” and such—men in whom the manage-
ment can put unlimited faith (the management once had
unlimited faith in me, of all people)—are allowed to take
a hand in this cleaning up. Then all the evidences of the
white-wash brush having been carefully removed, the
inspector is gently introduced, and has no trouble at all
in seeing that the recent sad taking-off was an accident,
pure and simple. Was the man killed by a fall of roof?
Well, there you are ! The inspector finds all supports in
the vicinity sound and in good order. Fall of coal?
Twenty-seven deputies and 16 shiftmen are ready to
solemnly affirm that “only that same morning they
warned the corpse to spVagg that-coal.” It was a
habitually careless corpse—one of those stiffs that would
never take the trouble of safeguarding itself in a reason-
able way. In fact, its sole ambition seemed to aim at
having itself converted into a cadaver, -so that the poor
unfortunate company might be put to a lot of trouble
and expense. It was always getting killed, ...
Perhaps it was run over by a train of loaded skips.
Forty-seven deputies and 11 shiftmen met the late
lamented remains that same morning, and warned them
against travelling along the haulage road during working
hours. One shiftman had a dim kind of recollection that
the defunct said he “got ill, and was obliged to make
for home,” also that “ there was no other way of getting
out of the mine.” But that shiftman was evidently a
fool, and his evidence could not be relied on. Casually,
that shiftman left for other scenes a few days later.
Anyway, and in due course, the Coroner’s Court takes
a seat on It, and there is no trouble at all in finding that
It passed out through an excess of stupidity, rank
obstinacy and pure cussedness, no blame being attach-
able to anyone—the company least of all.
Then the Coroner, and the jury foreman, and the com-
pany’s solicitor, likewise the deputies and the shiftmen,
gather in sympathetic groups outside and talk in low
tones of the uncertainty of life. And they also speak in
hushed voices of the widow and orphans. And the man-
ager goes to the office and tells the clerk not to be too
hurried in warning Mrs. to vacate the colliery house.
“ She is a poor woman,” he reminds the clerk, “ and has
10 children to provide for. Let her know she can remain
on for a week or so whilst she looks up another place.”
And yet coal miners are not always perfectly happy !


BEALE PIANO
A
O'
a
mm
*
NJI
'WJpf>< h
mmm, w ■*
j**S
v . FO v>
*4 £Ki
<ts
A * i
■/
' c
tv
%
w
Gs
.. - ;L Aon
i *
If '.At A
0' f
z
r.
EEErCSC?
FOB
The London MUSIC TRADES REVIEW, of 15th September last, wrote as
follows under tHe Heading—
Hints for the Australian Piano Trade.
“According to Australian trade experts, British and German pianoforte manu-
facturers, who have secured practically all the trade with Australia, do not always
recognise in hov/ far the climate of that country differs from that of India. They
often make the mistake of sending so-called ‘tropical’ pianos, which would be
suitable for, say, Calcutta, which has a hot but humid climate, to Australia,
where the heat is just as intense, but of a dry kind. Moreover, the Australians
love instruments with a heavy iron frame; the more a piano weighs the better
value for their money they believe they obtain.
But a moment’s thought will show that dry heat will expand the frame and
contract the sound-board, thereby often causing the latter to burst. The better
quality the sound-board, the more liable it is to crack.”
These are candid statements meant for the guidance of foreign manufacturers—and the very few British—
who still ship so largely to Australia. Next to the tuning-plate (or wrest-plank) the sounding-board is the next
important part of a piano. Ours are made in Australia, for Australia, in the largest piano factory of the British
Lmpire. We absolutely guarantee both wrest-plank and sounding-board to be wholly immune from the influence
of any climate.
More than twelve thousand are already in use, and our output barely keeps pace with the increasing demand,
lhree times as many Beale Pianos are sold in Australia as those of any other maker.
Ihey are not the cheapest, hut they are along way the best. Why not exchange the foreign article and
buy a real pleasure for your home ?
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
378 George Street, Sydney
(3 Doors from
G.P.0.)
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street Brisbane (next G.P.O.—our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W,; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue , or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories: Trafalgar Street, Annandaie, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years' Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers' Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers .


Chronic Rheumatism.
“ Some time a pro I contracted rheumatic fever,
which left behind it chronic rheumatism,” writes
Ernest G. Breeze, 107 Day Street, Leichhardt,
N.S.W. •* As liniments and doctors’ physic were
of no use, I tried Laxo-Tonic Pills. These quickly
relieved me. My joints became more supple, and
the pain disappeared. I feel constitutionally
better since taking Laxo-Tonic Pills.” Price
10|d. and Is, Gd,*
JhE
for DECEMBER.
HOW TO SMUGGLE i
OPIUM.
A convicted opium-smuggler
reveals the sensational methods
by which Opium is successfully
brought into the country under
the Customs Officers’ noses.
THE RHINOCEROS
THAT CHARGED
ROOSEVELT.
But for straight and speedy
shooting Roosevelt s series of
Big Game Hunting articles
would have had to be abruptly
discontinued. This article tells
of the sensational charge that a
big Rhinoceros, who had no
reverence for ex-Presidents,
made at Roosevelt.
THE WORLD’S DEBT
TO AUSTRALIA.
J. D. Fitzgerald’s article will
give Australians a better con-
ceit of themselves. He re-
counts the services that notable
Australians have done to the
world. The article is illus-
trated by 27 photographs of
world-famous Australians.
YASS-CANBERRA
AS IT USED TO BE.
M. Cox Taylor writes a charm-
ing article of the ancient
history of a locality now fallen
from its high estate. It is illus-
trated by special photographs.
THE FLYING MACHINE.
Special photographs are given
illustrating the latest types of
the flying machine.
Great English Actresses.
A series of full-page photo-
graphs of the great English
actresses gives point to Leon
Brodzky's personal impressions
of their personalities.
“ Galahad Jones.”
This serial, by Arthur H.
Adams, grows more exciting as
each succeeding instalment
nears the climax.
Suction Gas v. Steam.
The claims of the Suction Gas
Engine as against the Steam
Engine, as a power producer for
the Australian manufacturer,are
summed up C. A Jeffries.
The Dictates of Fashion.
A new department, dealing with
Australian fashions, will interest
every Australian woman who
wishes to be up-to-date.
SEVEN GREAT STORIES
This holiday number contains
no less than seven stories.
Among the writers are : Furnley
Maurice, Chas. P. Smith,
Milton Macgregor, W. Sabel-
berg, Marion Phillips and C.
A. Jeffries.
A REAL —”” Pf*| rn 1 I
HOLIDAY NUMBER. rilU ij m
IN BANANA LAND
Dave Bowman’s health is in a bad way,
and as he has been ordered right away from the
seaside for a while, Lennon lias been appointed
deputy-leader of the Queensland Labor party.
The Labor party as it goes along accumulates all
sorts of experiences ; but hitherto it has never had
this experience of having an ex-banker at its head.
Phidston, who professes to be strong on
the Bible-in-State-Schools question, didn’t take a
referendum on it at the late elections. For
months Phidston had been desperately anxious to
have the referendum taken at the Federal elec-
tions next year; but every Federal Minister
carefully shoved the dangerous animal off the
premises. It was plainly but politely pointed out
that education was a State affair, and that a
Bible-in-State Schools referendum couldn’t be
taken even at the North Pole without raising a
sectarian shindy. Still Phidston kept on nagging
about the saving of time if the affair was dealt
with at the Federal election next year. His
sole consideration was to save time. Then a
dissolution of his own State Parliament butted
into the discussion, and Phidston, the man who
was so anxious to save time and have the matter
settled, dropped his own pet subject down a well.
The Bible-in-State-Schools League frantically pur-
sued him all across the State, but the nearest it
could get was a glimpse of his coat-tails disappear-
ing over the skyline. And now Phidston, the
man who was so anxious to save time, will
begin worrying the Commonwealth afresh to
tackle his dynamite proposition for him. *
The Queensland Government proposes to
pay the leader of the Opposition an extpi £2OO a
year. This is another of the quaint results of
party government: the State pays one man £l2OO
a year or so to do something, and now it is going
to pay another man £5OO a year to prevent the
first man doing it. No doubt the leader of the
Opposition frequently works hard; he may even
work harder than the Premier. But that is
simply because it’s his job to prove that what-
ever the other man proposes is wrong somehow
or somewhere, and the struggle to prove
that another man is always wrong in-
volves a tremendous lot of wear and tear.
Then the fact that the Opposition has got to show
tfhat the Government is always wrong forces every
Government supporter to swear that his crowd is
always right, whether he believes it or not ; even
if he doesn’t believe that his crowd is right on one
point, he has to vote against his convictions lest
his vote should throw the Government out and
■defeat the 97 or so other things which it proposes
/and of which he approves. It is all strictly
‘Con’stooshnal; but a pie-stall would fall to pieces
[if it were run on the same insane principles.
Our Latest Import.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cargo of Chinese eggs was landed lately..— News item.
The burying of eggs for a number of years is a common
Chinese custom. —Current work on China.
NOT to the sound of fifes and kettle-drum-
ming
The Royal Chinese Egg upon us bore,
Though some have said they heard him softly
“ humming ’’
Full fifty miles from shore.
Our Native Egg, who never felt a quiver
When told a Foreign Egg might venture near,
Now owns, his yolk all paling with a shiver,
He feels a touch of fear.
We cannot call him quite an import “novel,”
For ancient odors hover round his shell
That tell a tale of curious street and hovel
1 Where Ah Sin’s poultry dwell.
Perhaps, indeed, that delicate aroma
Is but a remnant of that time of gloom
In which he passed a century of coma
Within a Chinese tomb.
For quaint Ah Sin, to give his eggs a flavor,
Will plant them deep, some seventy years or so,
And when his grandsons seek a subtle savor,
They dig them up—and lo !
The air is filled, as with a fragrant censor.
And all the neighboring pigtails gather nigh.
And raise, as round the air grows sweetly denser,
A quaint Chinese “Oh, my 1 ”
And to the Mandarin whose waist so ample
Doth testify his love of toothsome things,
The bold Exhumers send a gladsome sample
j- That fairly throbs and sings.
And while their hearts expand with sweet affec-
tion,
They straightway make a lightsome holiday
To celebrate the glorious Resurrection
Of Eggs that had their day.
We cannot hope, with tastes uncultivated,
To like these glorious morsels straight away,
But when our smell is duly educated,
O, then we shall be gay ;
And so, mayhap, the white Australian devil,
Who lives unblessed upon his lonely shore.
May learn to love such things, and hold high revel.
On antique eggs galore ;
And, far and wide, at gatherings free and merry,
The Chinese egg shall be a sign of cheer.
While careful housewives bend them oft and bury
Their unripe ova dear.
Meantime our thanks are due to John who sent us
His tempting wares across the ocean’s brine ;
A pity, John, thou hadst not also lent us
A nose as choice as thine !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 20, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,
What we really want in'this benighted city is a
new clerk of the weather who will attend to vice-
regal entertainments without getting hysterical
and making a complete mudpie of the business.
The old person now in charge issimply impossible.
He no sooner discovered that Arthur and his
missus were giving tea and other things in the
bare walls of the soon-to-be-changed Government
House than he turned on his biggest taps of heat
and wet until you could not only have been
drowned in the gutters, but could have had
your remains boiled after death. The Mor-
gan lady was not to be done, however;
and at great pains she donned her new grey
clothes, and prepared for action. In the mean-
time the two long aides to happenings of this
sort were busy playing a highly interesting game
of musical chairs. As a shower passed off they
spread out the chairs and little tables on the
soaking lawn, and as another shower came up they
rushed them in again. At last they were so ex-
hausted that he who announced the names of the
very limited arrivals had to be propped up with a
chair in the library. The limited guests aforesaid
were ultimately fed upon the verandah, and
stewed in the rooms between whiles, what time
they listened to the brass band, which had hastily
emptied out the water from its trumpet and
taken to blowing the article fit to bust in the gal-
lery. None of the women wore anything in par-
ticular save an air of resignation. The Lieutenant-
Governor wore an expression of disgust.
The incoming inmate of the vice-regal seat
(when one is found for him) is bringing a heap of
art treasures from his bosom friend Peary, who is
alleged to have collected them at the North Pole.
What he intends to do with them doesn’t tran-
spire, but presumably even a heap of Eskimo odds
REAL REGRET.
"Hard-workin'
wife you're got,
Bill."
“ Yes , by cripes!
I wish I’d a couple
more like her."
and ends is better than nothing to rest one’s
homeless head upon when the weather is damp.
I wonder whom the Kidphilp Parliament will
take to paying next. Its latest brilliant inspira-
tion is to subsidise the Leader of the Opposition
to the extent of £5OO a year. Now, why not also
pay a special salary to the leader of the Be volu-
tion ?
Three days racing have passed over our heads
this week—that is, since Saturday last —and in
spite of sizzling weather the" attendance has been
large and generous in the matter of tote tickets.
Nothing like the heat of the moment when
Barallan won the Gup could well be imagined,
and the tea rooms sold nothing but cold stuff.
The most successful frocker on the opening day
was Mrs. Dalziell, a westerner who sported a grey
confection and a hat the size of a house. On
Monday little Miss Feez was the prettiest girleen
on the lawn, in a billowy white frock and a blood-
shot headgear. Yesterday the weather had cooled
down, and white frocks and large hats, holding
enough flora] work to stock a milliner’s shop,
prevailed. One lady stood up in a gown that
suggested a white shroud covered with fragments
of raw steak ; and another female topped a green
and heavily-soutached disarrangement with a hat
that covered about three parts of her figure.
By the way, we had a storm. It came last
Sunday, and I know it because my tenants have
improved the occasion to bill me with all the glass
that they have smashed in family jars during the
last year. Also I was out in the elements which,
just at the moment, presented the appearance of
tennis balls of imperfectly polished ice. My best
hat is a wreck, and only a head of solid wood
prevented my family indulging in an elegant
funeral next day. My frock has shrunk two feet,
and as for my temper it has shrunk so much that
I will have to -get a new one for next season. The
present article is too brief to make a bathing
costume.
. People, don’t go out calling since the storm.
They stay at home and watch lest other people
should steal their windows. There is' a glass
famine. Somewhere in the region of 4000 panes
are missing from one suburb alone.
There is trouble in the Amen corner —that is,
upon the Government benches. The first railway
proposal brought Corser to his feet to advocate a
most un-Government amendment, which, had the
calamity been carried, would have insured the
common or garden laborer a whole Bs. a day.
Then, over the University measure which fol-
lowed, both Forrest and Macartney ran wild, and
had to be pretty well bludgeoned into shape.
There are also rumors of discontent about the
remaining railway shows, and the appointment of
the President to the Water Board should about
explode the bomb.
Died on Monday morning Hugh Mossman,
pioneer and miner, brother of G. Mossman of the
North, and of Mrs. Thomas M‘llwraith. He
passed at Eastern Grey, the late Arthur Palmer’s
home, after a long illness that from the first left
no hope. His colors were often seen upon the
Ascot course, and he ran them like a true sport,
and therefore made more friends than pelf out of
the business. The following reaches me from one
who has an intimate knowledge of his connection
with mining, and the words speak for them-
selves:— " ■
Hugh Mossman came to Queensland early in 1860. In
1871, accompanied by Mr. J. Frazer, he started from
Rockhampton on a prospecting trip north. There wasn’t
much luck until Ravenswood was reached, and they were
joined by Mr. G. E. Clarke. From Ravenswood they tra-
velled westward along tire Bnrdekin River, and got a
little gold here and there. They also prospected the
branches of the Broughton, gold becoming more plenti-
ful about the 70-tnile pinnacle.
Their attention was then attracted to some hills away
to the north, and gold was found, but not in payable
quantities. Passing through a gap in these hills they
came upon the outcrop of the North Australian reef, and
later on other reefs carrying gold, some of which were
very rich.
Mossman travelled back to Ravenswood and applied to
Warden Charters for reward claims, ana that’s how
Charters Towers was discovered and named. Mossman
was content with standing godfather to a street and with
the more solid results of his interests in the reefs, which
returned some ricli crushings, especially the St. Patrick
and the Washington. Subsequently, Mossman’s Mill was
another gold mine to him, and to the last his Charters
Towers interests and his racehorses divided his affections.
Mossman was a straight runner, a firm friend, couraye-
ous as a lion, somewhat brusque (more from shyness than
anything: else), and withal tender-hearted as a woman.
He lost one hand while dynamiting' fish somewhere up
North, but at different times he gave away a lot of money
with the other.
At the opening of Parliament, the other day,
one of the lookers-on was Mrs. Armstrong, whose
son represents the Lockyer. The old lady saw
the first Queensland Parliament opened in 1860,
and she says that, barring the extra flummery, the
proceedings are just as dull and stupid as they were
when the Governor represented Victoria the
Good, and Queensland had just knocked off taking
its immigrants in chains.
Yoiirs affectionately,
MARIO.
Though Kiclston was supposed to have
acquired a solid majority by his fusion with Philp,
his Government the other day only escaped a bad
defeat by one vote (in Australia nowadays almost
every Government appears to be struggling
through by one vote). It was over a question of
paying Bs. a day to the men employed on the
Pittsworth-Millmerran railway, and after a
homeric struggle the low wage party had 33 sup-
porters to the high-wage party’s 32.
Treasurer Hawthorn (Q.) has introduced a
Workers’ Dwellings Bill. The idea at the bottom
of it—to make the worker independent of the
landlord —is all right; but some landlords will
probably be less concerned about the Bill than
Hawthorn expects. It provides that money may
be advanced to a bona-fide worker to purchase
freehold. At present the worker, it is assumed,
cannot find enough money to buy an allotment
because land is selling at boom prices, and those
prices are mainly due to loan extravagance.
Along then comes the Government and offers to
assist a few workers to buy boom adlptments, and
finds the cash from a fresh loan, which loan in turn
creates more boom and fresh difficulty for other
workers outside the little circle. The salvation
that conies from a visit to the pawnshop nearly
alw iys wears a sting in its tail like that.


THE QUEENSLAND FOREST.
“ The heart of a Queensland forest, into which
the hardy tirnbergetters penetrate with their great,
lumbering waggons, drawn by long strings of bul-
locks or horses, is almost awe-inspiring in its
picturesque grandeur. The following description
of a forest scene is applicable to hundreds of miles of
country in this richly-endowed State
“ Here the forest teas an almost impenetrable mass
of vegetation , in ivhich gum, pine and beech trees
rear their stately heads above a clinging confusion
of luxuriant undergrowth, the'Enchanting effect of
the scene being enhanced by the presence of an occa-
sional towering cedar bursting into flower. Vines,
lichen and ferns struggled for supremacy in that
bewildering foliage.
“ Here a huge staghorn, clinging to a lofty beech,
spread its antlers as though in triumph over its less
exalted fellows , here a great fern flourished and
expanded, affording grateful shade for ■ the delicate
maidenhair which clustered round its roots; there
a lusty vine entwined itself in fantastic shapes
around a majestic silky oak. until the ends of its
embracing tendrils waved proudly above the very
tree itself.
“ On the right, the country fell away into a deep
ravine, up the slope of which a wealth of varied
timber struggled towards the sun. Wild straw-
berries and raspberries (both used for jam-making
by the prudent housewife) grew in profusion,
backed by splendid specimens of the stinging
tree.” — Charles E. Taylor, m “ Queensland in
1908.”
“ Queensland has an advantage over some other
States in the accessibility of its timbers. ....
Practically all the merchantable timbers are on
the courses of the rivers flowing to the coast, chiefly
on the oceanward side of the Dividing Range.”—
Philip McMahon.
‘ ‘ Queensland, because of the voealth and variety
of its timbers, is in the unique position of being
able to supply all its own requirements for bridge
and pier work, buildings of every descrip-
tion, and both railway rolling-stock and private
vehicles.”— James Mann (Assistant Professor at
Melb. University).
HAULING VINE, NEURUM CREEK, N.C.R., QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C.E.S. Fryer.
The size of these “stately trees” has been
given by Mr. McMahon. We, too, have our big
timber patches, as California has, where trees to
which the giants shown to Mr. Adam are as saplings.
In the north of Queensland, near Geraldton and
Herberton, there is a kauri pine of 42ft. in cir-
cumference. with a diameter of 14ft. I have not
the dimensions of the famous Californian sequoias
at hand while writing ; but I should think that
the Queensland kauri pine would compare favor-
height of close upon 200 ft., with, a diameter of
Jrom 3ft. to 6ft. In, their, forest home they are
among the most picturesque of trees, > bearing a
flower. This wood is extensively used in the
Queensland railway workshops for pillars, panels
and mouldings in the railway carriages. The
wood has a most beautiful grain, and is useful for
;veneers. The Bunya and Kauri pines are also
extensively used in the Queensland railway shops,
for carriage building and decoration. This is
great extent by the growth of a self-reliant Federal
sentiment. But Queensland has never been faint-
hearted where her own resources were concerned.
Nor can it be said that Queensland capitalists
are neglecting the great natural timber resources
of the State. Year after year the number of saw-
mills increases. In 1907 there were 15 more saw-
mills in operation than in 1906, and the output
showed in that year an increase in the. output of
7,686,000 ft. of softwoods cut (with an increased
value of £96,734); and of hardwoods of 1,561,000 ft.,
with an increase of £26,125 in value. Sortie of the
mills cut over five million superficial feet timber
annually; others, from 500,000 ft. up to five mil-
lions. A good test, too, of the growth of the im-
portance of the timber industry is found in the
supply of sleepers required for the Queensland
Railways. Here is the table taken from the report
of the Director of Queensland Forestry, submitted
to the Minister in July, 1908 :
Sleepers Used—Queensland Railways.
1904-5. 1905-6. 1906-7.
Construction.. .. 79,000 100,780 556,456
Maintenance.. .. 188,000 140,093 172,063
Totals .. ■> :. 267,000 '240,873 • 728,519
Total cost ~ £21,156 £20,030 £91,033
Then the State obtains a reciprocal benefit from
the encouragement of the railway policy. The
timber industry has benefited from the extension
of the railways, which have opened up new forest
country to the capitalist and the worker. And in
,return the railways have benefited in the in-
creased receipts for freight. In 1906 the item
“ wood and timber ” came fourth on the list as a
freight-earner on the Queensland railways. The
items “general merchandise” (£395,974), “agri-
cultural produce other than cane” (£119,387), and
“wool” (£112,662) gave a better return to the
railways than “wood and timber” (£97,051).
But in 1907 “ wood and timber” came second on
the list with £136,901, after “general mer-
chandise” £467,264, and ahead of “agricultural
produce” and “wool,” £131,000 and £129,000 re-
spectively.
True to her self-reliant policy, Queensland has
of all the States of the Australian union been the
smallest importer of timbers from abroad. While
in 1907 Victoria imported timber to the value of
£628,886; N.S.W., £652.317 ; and South Aus-
tralia £228,000; Queensland was only an importer
to the extent of £10,000; and this small amount
is accounted for by Mr. C. E. Taylor by the fact
CROSSING THE CONDAMINE, WARWICK DISTRICT, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C.E.S. Fryer.
GRANDGHESTER, S. AND AT. R., QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
Queensland To-day: The Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XLVII.
FORTUNES IN QUEENSLAND TIMBERS.
By J. D. FITZGERALD, Barrister-at-Law.
When the tourist is bowling along in the train
through some of the fairest portions of the scenic
zones of Queensland, his admiration is aroused at
the splendid forests, the magnificent boles of the
giant eucalypts, the thick scrubs, with strange and
beautiful forms of foliage, limbs and shapes. He
probably does not reflect that these forests repre-
sent millions sterling of unrealised wealth, which
invites the capitalist to come along and
take it. There are difficulties to be overcome
—distance from the markets has to be reckoned ;
but every day shortens that distance as the re-
sources of civilisation are developed ; transport to
the coast is a factor—bpt the Queensland Govern-
ment agencies are at work annihilating distances
and creating transport facilities bv the network of
main lines of railway and the various spurs jutting
out into’ the new country, opening up rich
fields. Then, as we saw in a previous article, the
world is crying more insistently for timber—the
conservation and replacement of the world’s
forests will soon become an international neces-
sity. But before that time arrives the develop-
ment of Queensland’s timber industry will have
been organised on adequate lines, and the world
will turn its eyes towards a new supply—which
seems, prima facie, inexhaustible.
Anyhow, there is the fact—forty million acres
of valuable timbers are waiting to be cut down,
sawn up, and sent into the world’s markets. The
world will hardly believe it—it is one of those
obscure facts which are not realised by the people
outside Australia. For example, here is an
account given by Mr. Philip McMahon, director of
the Botanic Gardens of Brisbane, of an interview
which he had with one of the railway engineering
experts of the Indian Government, Mr. Adam,
who paid a visit to Queensland a few years ago :
“ I found Mr. Adam at first under the impression,” says
Mr, MacMahon, “that Queensland really had no timber
worthy of the name, that the vegetation of the country
was largely composed of scrub, which was supposed to
represent woods of minor importance, and that our
potential exports consisted only of soft woods, such as
pine and cedar. I was enabled to dissipate this idea, so
far as he was concerned, by taking him to some of the
almost virgin forests, about two hours’ rail from Brisbane,
and showing- him thousands upon thousands of stately
trees, towering to 150 ft. in height, and from 9ft. to 18ft.
in circumference at breast height. I was able to demon-
strate that this class of forest extended over what is
practically a province, and that for all practical purposes
the supply of sleepers and engineering timber is limited
only by the number of hands available for its explot- -
tation.”
ably with the rriuch-boasted Yosemite timbers.
One of the Queensland giant pines .yielded
21,680 ft. of timber. Mr. Charles E. Taylor,
in an article in “ Queensland in 1008,” publishes
an estimate of the wealth in pine alone, of which,
he says, it is calculated that there are three
thousand million feet in the State, worth any-
thing from £25,000,000 to £30,000,000.
; The Queensland cedars are magnificent trees,
which grow in the rich scrub soils. They reach a
worth noting, as it shows that the Queensland
Government has the courage of its opinions. It
knows that its territories supply the finest timbers
in the world. But there are other States, having
doubtless a good opinion of their own timbers,
which prefer to neglect their local resources, and
to'import, not only the timbers used in the con-
struction of their railway carriages, but even the
carriages themselves. Of course, this feeling of de-
pendence upon people abroad has been killed to a
CEDAR TREE, ATHERTON, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
that ships trading in the season to Australia for
wool bring ballast freights. “ Wages are lower,’’
he says, “and forestry has received much more
attention in Norway and Sweden than in Queens-
land, while ships trading to Australia carry timber
fit a cheap rate, taking wool, etc., as return cargo.”
Timber is a baby industry at the present time.
There is no organisation of the trade on the
gigantic lines which are found in the United
States. “Why?” some people may ask. The
best answer is that up to now the citizens of
Queensland- have had easier ways of making
money than the timber industry affords. De-
velopment has been going on upon lines which
showed the quickest results. Just as inexpensive
alluvial workings would receive more favor even
to-day than costly reefing operations on low-grade
ores, with deep-sinking, so the easier and readier
ways of making money attract the Queenslander,
as they would any other race. Queensland is a
pioneers’ country. Capital is not yet accumu-
lated. When it is, the capitalist will reach out
for investments for his accumulated savings. Then
both the deeper levels of the mines and the
remoter regions of the forests of Queensland will
be worked at; and the results will be as great as
those of the organised enterprises of the Old
World and the New. We shall no longer hear of
the Commonwealth importing millions’ worth of
commercial timbers while her own splendid
forests remain as they grew.
The American “lumber industry”—as the tim-
ber industry is called—alone furnishes us with a
notable model upon which our own organisation
must go in the future. Forestry in the United
States is a matter of national concern. It not
only affects great interests in the afforested areas,
but there are rulings of the Federal Courts which
make it clear that the word “commerce,” used
in the Constitution, includes “ navigation and
as the navigation of inland rivers depends upon
the afforestation of the land which forms the
catchment areas of the sources of the navi-
gable streams, therefore the preservation of
the forests is a national matter. The sub-
ject was debated in the Judiciary Committee
of Congress; and it was laid down as a rule
that—“ Congress had no constitutional power
over the forests of the country as such ; but if
there were a direct and tangible connection
between the preservation of the forests on the
watersheds of the navigable streams, and the
navigation of such streams for inter-State and
foreign commerce, then Congress did have the
power to acquire such lands, either by purchase or
resumption.”
“ Cut all the trees off the land that forms the
sources of the navigable streams, and your rivers
will dry up ! ” That is the national phase of the
Forestry question in the United States. We in
Australia have no great problem as to navigable
streams; but our rainfall is dependent upon our
forests, and therefore forestry here, as in America,
is a national question.


Whole Body Covered and Head So
Bad She Could Not Comb Hair-
Sight Affected —Neighbor Beg-
ged Her to Use Cuticura It
Cooled the Itching Flesh and
BROUGHT REST, SLEEP
AND A PERFECT CURE
“Words cannot express the awful skin
disease I suffered with. My whole body
was covered with it. My head broke
out so that I could not comb my hair.
For a month or more I suffered with a
terrible sore throat. When I should lie
down at night my eyes would stick to-
gether and I would have to bathe them
before opening them each morning. I
scarcely could see for my eyes had failed
me from the effect of the skin disease. I
tried three doctors, but they gave me no
relief and then I tried all kinds of things
that I thought would do me good but I
could find nothing. I was a perfect
prisoner with the awful humor.
“One of my neighbors begged me to
try the Cuticura Remedies, and I made
up my mind to try them but not think-
ing that I would ever be cured. I would
take a hot bath with Cuticura Soap and
then apply the Cuticura Ointment. I
found relief in a few days and in a
month you could scarcely see a spot cn
myface. I felt like a new person. When
I first began to use the Cuticura Reme-
dies they cooled the itching flesh and
brought me real good sleep and rest at
night. I had suffered fully two years
with the skin disease but now I am a well
woman and in good health. I beg every
skin sufferer to use the Cuticura Reme-
dies. I cannot praise Cuticura enough
because I thought that 1 would never
get well again. Mrs. Cordelia C. Pitts,
Newborn, Georgia, U. S. A., Nov. 24 and
Dec. 21, 1908.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Keeping the Hair
To prevent dry, thin and falling hair,
remove dandruff, allay itching irri-
tation and promote the growth and
beauty of the hair, frequent shampoos
with Cuticura Soap and occasional
dressings withKXiticura are usually effec-
tive when all other methods fail. Spe-
cial and full directions accompany each
package of Cuticura.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Aus-
tralia, R. Towns & Co.. Sydney; U. S. A.. Potter
Drug & Chera. Corp., Sole Props., Heston. o@"Post
tree, 32-page book on torturing skin diseases.
51
ARE
YOU
TOO
FAT
For Fat Women exercise is good, but a
Sydney Physician who has investigated says
“that without any doubt, the most successful
harmless, reliable, pleasant and certain
remedy, as well as the cheapest, is
“FATCURE”
It reduces weight in many cases by over five
pounds a week, and when reduced the con-
d.tion does not come on again. The cure
is permanent. . . . This method is perfect,
its results are marvellous, its clientele tre-
mendous. . . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE and full particulars.
No ill after-effects result from the use of
“Fatcure," and it can be taken with abso-
lute secrecy. WRITE or CALL at once.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Casllcrecgh Si., Sydney
the Old HERBAL
SPECIALIST
for Nervous and kindred troubles which embitter life
and cause Nervous and physical breakdown. You mav
receive the benefit of his long- and successful experience
in the treatment of these complaints frke of charge.
Call or Write.
Add ress . HERBAL DISPENSARY,
_ 63 '-.Li.CABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE. TO ALE
Ladies who lack proper BUST 'Development.
We will send full partieu'ars of a valuable
remedy which will enhance' your physical
charms and br'ng about that natural Develop,
merit of the BUST which all ladies desire and
all men admire.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxat've.
LAXATINE ihe Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE io d by All Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
DYSPEPTICS!
Nervous, debilitated, half-dead
people will gain new life, energy
and strength from Mother Seigel's
Syrup, because it does the only
tiling which can give permanent
relief —helps you to digest your food.
Food is a strength-maker, and
health-maker, but it must be di-
gested. Discomfort after eating,
languor, headaches, palpitation,
flatulehce, loss of appetite, broken
sleep, these are sure signs of indi-
gestion. Mother Seigel's Syrup is
the sure cure. As a digestive tonic
and stomachic remedy it has no
equal. Take it daily after meals.
MOTHER
SYRUP
WILL CURE YOU.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawK.es &, Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SDTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
f K
*
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat 8
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the rrruinp “MONTSERRAT.”
NO NEED FOR NEW BLADES
IF YOU
USE THE
AUTO STROP
Safety RAZOR.
Its blades are alwaj s sharp and ready for use. [2
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
f
04
Si
X
That Have
Caught On!
They’re books every Aus-
tralian should read.
They’re typical Australian
from cover to cover—full or
intense interest from start to
finish. They’re written, printed
and illustrated in Australia —
you ought to read them —
they’re published in cheap
editions.
Here we enumerate just a
few of them.
Steve Brown’s Bunyip, by A. J. Barry ; price,
cloth, 1/-; postage 4d.
The Luck of the Native Born, by A. J. Barry ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
How McDougall Topped the Score, by T. E.
Spencer ; price, paper, 1/- ; .postage 3d.
The Spring Cleaning, by T. E. Spencer;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd.
The Surprising Adventures of Mrs. McSweeney,
bv T. E. Spencer ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Budgeree Ballads, by T. E. Spencer; price,
p iper, 1/-; postage 3d.
A Man of Sympathy, by Harry Tighe; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
The Spell of the Bush, by John X. Cameron ;
price, paper, l/- ; postage 3d.
Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by. Alf Brasch ;
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Oha-c White ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Riverfall, by L. B. Porter; price, paper, I/-;
postage 3d.
Adventures of Russell Howard, by A. E. Job-
son ; price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
The New Chum, by A. H. Adams; price,
paper, J/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
SUMMER SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS*
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear
mm
f G & c.
%
Cartridge, j
t This Cartridge with the large solid Bullet is uneq-
alled for Miniature Range Shooting with .22 Cal- j
l ibre rifles. It is British made too. Any Am- i
k munition Dealer can supply you. Agents:
'HE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA
STYLISH BOOTS FOR MEN
This Stylish Gent.’s Bal. Boot can be had in five
shapes, either Tan or Black. Is the very latest
style and eminently suitable for Summer wear.
Price
Postage
Sc/. extra.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.
LEEMING’S,
103 Swanston St., Melbourne
303 Chapel St., Prahran
1 S 3 Errol St., North Melb.
The Inky Way.
“Paper-Stainer": Gregory Wade, of N.S.W.—who
ought to be called Gregorius YVadus, that being more like
the style of the old Latin period to which his mind pro-
perly belongs—had to back down considerably on his
proposal that the proprietor of a paper should be com-
pelled to supply, upon demand, the name and address of
the writer of anything which appears in his columns.
To the antiquated Gregorius the idea, in its original form,
doubtless appeared magnificent. It was a wholesale
scheme for the suppression of information about
long hours, low wages, unhealthy premises, swind-
ling middle-men, fraudulent agents, unseaworthy
ships, dangerous mines, etc., etc., for, if the
man who furnished the facts could be promptly
identified, sacked, boycotted or blacklisted, it is quite
evident that the supply of unpleasant revelations about
Wade’s Tory friends would greatly diminish. Even in its
amended form the clause provides that the name and
address of a writer may be extracted by legal process;
but, bad as that is, it isn’t quite the gigantic scheme of
tyranny and repression which Gregory of the Middle Ages
aimed at. Of course, rich city papers will be able to keep
a cheap man named Blinn or Briggs to re-write dangerous
matter and put his own name and address to it, after
which the original manuscript can be destroyed ; but the
clause will hear heavily on the little country paper which
can’t afford to hire, Briggs.
» » • *
Robert Hoe, whose name spelt printing-machine, died
in London the other week, aged 70. He was at his office
within two days of his death, and his old-fashioned
“ devotion to business ” appears to have hastened his
final sssue. The Hoes have been long in the world of
printing machinery. Robert, lately deceased, was grand-
son of the original “Bob” Hoe, son of an English far-
mer, who emigrated to New York and joined his two
brothers-in-law in business. Their name was Smith
good old Smith ! —and one of them had invented a hand
press. “Bob ” Hoe was succeeded by Richard Hoe, who
became a colonel during the American Uncivil
War, and achieved immortality as the inventor of
the first rotary press, whereby newspaper printing
was revolutionised. The Colonel’s invention made the
great firm of Hoe Brothers. He took his brother Robert
(the second) and Peter into the business, and when thev
all three passed out, some 25 years ago, the third Robert
Hoe took over the reins of government. American by
birth, the Hoe firm started its English workshops almost
as soon as the new machine was fairly going, and it em-
ploys.7so hands in London to-day. The third Robert, in
fact, was as un-American in appearance as his great
grandfather, the Leicestershire farmer. He wore white
mutton-chop whiskers, and divided his time equally
between the two countries.
* * » *
G. R. Sims explains a lot of the “patriotic ” opposition
to Tariff Reform in Britain: “Almost every Free trade
organ in this country is either owned or financed bv the
proprietors of specially protected industries ‘ food-
taxers ’ for the food they deal in—and some of them are
gentlemen with foreign names who are at the head of
gigantic trusts.”
*•* * *
“ The Librarian ’’: There’s a fashion in book-titles, as '
there is in most other things. Going through an old
catalogue the other day, I found myself up agminst a
conundrum about every third line ; for the novelist of
that generation had the habit of asking a ques-
tion on the title-page and presumably answer-
ing' it in the innards. For a start there were
“Hid She Love Him ?” by Robert Grant ; and “Are You
My Wife ?’’ by Ramsay. “ Ought We To Visit Her ? ” bv.
Mrs. Annie Edwards conjures up visions of a fly in the,
social ointment somewhere. Even Lytton was not proof
against the popular craze ; hence “ What Will He Do
With It?”. “What’S In a Name?” was by Sarah
Dondney. Then rushed along “ Shall I Win Her?” bv
Robert Grant; “What Can She Do?” by E. P. Roe';
“What Shall It Be?” by Mrs. Alexander ;“ Which
Is The Winner?” by C. C. Clark; “Who Is
She?” and “Who Will Save Her?” by W. Phillips;
“What Will The World Sav?” by C. Gibbon ; “ Who Is
The Heir?” by M. Collins ; “ Was It Worth The Cost?”
by Mrs. Eiloart; “ Will He Marrv Her? ”by John Lang ;
“Did She Deserve It?” by Mrs. Riddell ; “Can You For-
give Her?” by A. Trollope ; and hundreds more, including
that immortal work by Isaiah Reginald Cohen, of Sydney.
“How Will It End?” *
* * * *
The Australian Star (Sydney) is an unusual kind of
daily paper, inasmuch as it prints its programme con-
spicuously above its leading article. It is a good pro-
gramme, too, and if the-old management had lived up to
it as well as the new one does the Star would probably
be a better property than it is. This is its confession of
faith nowadays :
Nationalism as distinct from Parochialism.
Political and Social Reform by Constitutional methods.
Australian Defence by Sea and Land.
The Removal of Oppressive Monopolies, of which the
land monoply is the greatest.
Immigration of White Settlers, preferably British, when
the laud is open to receive them.
The Encouragement and Protection of Australian In-
dustry.
A Living Wage that is a Marrying Wage.
Taxation on an Equitable Basis.
Clean Government by honest men.
“ To-day is the best day the world has ever seen,
but to-morrow will be better.”
THE EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Editor-in-Chief I am,
And deal in common-sense—
With which I ever strive to cram
The people, who are dense.
My pleaminp pate doth radiate
A pay benevolence.
A lowly man and meek am I,
Both merciful and fat.
Within my hall the poets lie
And saturate the mat
With floods of tears for “ vanished years,
And other thinps like that.
I love the woodland things that sing,
That run—-that swim—that soar.
I love the flies upon the wing,
The mice beneath the floor.
One thing alone turns me to stone
And that I much abhor.
No epitaph shall grace his tomb,
No words tell how he tripped
Upon the stairs and fell through gloom,
And how his life-blood dripped,
Who writes in glee and sends to me
Some unstamped manuscript!
N.s.w.
KODAK.
BILL’S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ain’t an envious sort o’ chap,
Or much inclined ter show my teeth ;
And I don’t care a (dreadful) rap
About the bloomin’ lorrel reath.
But, all tbe same, I’d like to join
The (frightful) Union, so ter speak ;
And fret m-• bit o’ praisp an’ coin,
Like blokes that’s printed every week.
There ain’t no charnee ter make a punch,
Fer country ri tin "blokes like me;
I earn’t take ’Opkins out fer lunch,
Or arsk the Old M in ’ome ter tea.
I've pot no charnce ter meet the “ Sub ”
At Doolan’s stranty by the creek ;
Or,me and 'im would own titer pub,
And I’d pet printed every week.
The Correspondence Collum bloke,
lie sometimes prints a verse fer nte ;
But then it’s only just ter poke
Ilis dirty borak, don’t yer see ?
But he ain’t goin’ ter put me past—
It’s like 'is (simply awful) cheek ;
And he’ll come smoogin’ round at larst,
The bloke that’s printed every week.
K.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
*£g u.s.Pftt
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
6EWASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
BRIAR
Pipes
GBD
Pipes
SPECIAL
SILVER
MOUNTED
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCONISTS.
6^
TNothinq
ever
like rhem
shown in
Australia
before.
rf unable
to procure
ah Local
Tobacconist
apply at
Wholesale
Depot •
SIZE
LARGER
7'6
231 Clarence St SYDNEY
A good example is set
by these who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, -Eng.
POLICY For. the COMMONWEALTH
Price (id, from The Bulletin Office.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
J
m
mm
■ -
B
==S*=fe#£3
I : :
s
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirely different moves beforepurse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free any-
where, 2/- Do not miss this chance of obtaining
one of the best and most useful puzzles ever
produced.
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to yive the match-
cadyer a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
The JOKER’S INDIARUBBER SNAKE.
One of our most successful surprise novelties.
Folds up in a very small space, and can be held
in a closed hand without being' noticed. Springs
out of the hand in a most natural way. Made
of indiarubber, and is absolutely unbreakable.
Causes heaps of amusement. Price 1/3 post
free anywhere.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—New Edition
just ‘published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
Patronage
Under Vice-Regal
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkbl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/-
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Tails from 7/6.
Telephone 2138.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S !
hree Witches
n CIPAR*TT»»
for
londw Made
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Weakness Cannot Win
In the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
a*
\\
Y
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’S Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system —not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force —and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £Z L and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid tp all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagb and Market Streets, SYDNEY,
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name!
Address
CURE
B
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and fapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is mp<st comforting in allaying Irritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dcse or two is'generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; La rg6 Size, 4 6 Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by W. G. HEARNE & Co., Ltd.,
Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


Shipping:.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
~ Steamer. (Tons I Commander. t Saiis.
•COMMONWEALTH 0611 |T. .7, Hine .. ..Dec. 11
tWILCANNIA .. 50001 F. W. Hanson, R.N.R. .lan. 8
•GEELONG .. .. SOOOIW. C. Simnmnds .. Feb. 5
•Twin Screw. .Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
HOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £136 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMEIts.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD..
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
MkljßOijrnk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adki.aidk & Frkmantls Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT EINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SIDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial Mutual [jife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.'
. Heao Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.388,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without 'restriction as r,o
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
™?gank of north ||usestslaod
limited.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNV.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. It. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout, QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. •• •• £508,197 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,824 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 73,500 0 0
£744.521 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE trustees, executors
A AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. ... £35.000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman : >n. J. M. Pratt; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BURROW .Vi AN, .Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND,
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping
ord
eutscher
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS hooked to Evvpt. Naples. Genoa. Algiers,
Marseilles. Gibraltar. London. Antwerp. and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Sengoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
Tel. 698. 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)ew Z ea ' an| t
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710.998
GRAFTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. VV. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair
limn (Uihlis, lii-iylit & Go.); .J. Cami'liei.e-Wood, Kaq. ;
M'. O. Watt, Ksq. ; J. J. Alw.n, Esq.
General Maiinjrer for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write fur run pectus. ,131 PrriSl., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
m
i
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
December 22.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC, to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbolirne . .. . • 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Datyety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
* twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.'
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
} NOLISMY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown. and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo tc
Port Moresby. Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.).
Shortland Islands ($ ports).
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. *<
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining' a de-
lightful'lsland Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS , PHILP & CO., Ltd., ID Bridge St., SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
Established 1817'.
Mill,
£2,500,000
£1,650,000
- ' £2,500,000
£6,650,000
»T RECTORS:
The Hon. O. K. MaeKellar, M.L.C. :
The Hot). Sir Normand
Senator The Hon. James Thomas \
President,
lit., M.L.C.
tinker.
The Hon. Reginald James
'Jhonia* Bnekland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: William Bnrr.mif t,i Palmer, Esq. ; Shepherd Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office -64- Old Broad St., E.C.
WitVi Branches/in all the Australian State.-., New Zealand and Fiji,,and Agents and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, Chida, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the
United States, South America. Honolulu, and the West Indies. , _ . , ,
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiatecl and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
: y - nnssirr.t. FRENCH. General Manager
OOVEENSVIENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being-:
(«) Advances made from £5O to £2303.
(5) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after-
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good .quality,at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed inf inflation on u> ilicition to Branch Managers, or to the Srprktart, at Moore Street, Sydney.
HICHFjELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
S. H. McDonald, Manager.
TASMANIA
The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
HIGHFIELD
The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged and Re,
'furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite for the
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class Cuisine.
Alcock’s Billiard Tables. . 1
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &c.
Free for the Asking:.
&
&
The completest illus-
trated Catalogue and
Prijee List of Acety-
lene Burners ! ever
published in , the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/=
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
The
Pipe
of
Pipes!
“E.F.L.” Brand
Made in London by highly skilled
workmen, from best old seasoned
Briar-root, mounted with Sterling
Silver Bands. They are supplied
in three grades—
A, B and C Quality,
and are guaranteed, with fair
usage, not to crack or burn.
Price, from 2s. 6d. each.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues to
E„ F. LIND & CO.,
Totaaccorrists,
398 CEORCE STREET, near King: Street, SYDNEY.
Branches : 5 Macquarie Place and 47 Pitt Street.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), December 4,
call!:i!T at ail N.-West
ports to Wyndham.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Innnmincka, Nov. 2
S.S. Allinpa, Dec. 3.
S.S. Grantala, Dec. 10.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies oil all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
■ Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE. BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing' the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-screet, Sydney.
SPECIAL EXCURSION
TO THE MAGNIFICENT
WEST COAST SOUNDS
OF NEW ZEALAND
without transhipment.
ROUND TRIP WILL OCCUPY 11 DAYS.
FARE—£I2 lOs. to £l5 10s.
Two and Three-Berth Cabins only.
It is proposed to despatch the Royal Mail Twin-screw
Steamer
MAKURA, 8100 TONS
(if sufficient inducement offers),
TO MILFORD SOUND DIRECT,
Leaving Sydney FRIDAY, 31st DECEMBER;
Arriving back TUESDAY, lith JANUARY.
Steamer will remain three days in Milford Sound, and
will then visit the Southern Sounds.
ONLY FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS will be carried,
and, to ensure comfort on board, the number will be
limited.
Full particulars on application to —
UNION S.S. CO. OF N.Z., Ltd., Ccorge Street.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., PROP., Ltd., Pitt Street.
F. -H.— 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUK7, Canal.
T.S.S. “DORSET.”
11 300 Tons. W. L. Prkntich, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 7t.h Dec.
„ SYDNEY - - 14th Dec.
” , ~ MELBOURNE - 21st Dec.
” „ „ ADELAIDE - - 25th Dec.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of,
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and l £49 10s . £l3 13s . i ss . £17175.
LIVERPOOL.. \
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co.. Ltd., Adelaide.
i i aVE von tried this beautiful SKIN PREPARATION?
n VERONIQUE. WE ONLY WISH YOU TO TRY A
SMALL JAR—the result will be so gratifying to you that
you would not be without it for one day. Every French-
woman who values her complexion uses VERONIQUE. It
d ihs wonders for them, and will do the same for you.
VERONIQUE makes the skin smooth, soft and.white, re-
moves blemishes, and “O nourishes the skin that wrinkles
disappear. VERONIQUE costs 3s. per small and ss. per
lar<*e jar. Obtainable from the Sole Agents only : THE
AUSTRALIA MANICURE AND TOILET ROOMS 42 a
Castlkruagii Street (over Medlovv Bath Hydro Offices),
exactly opposite the Hotel Australia. Entrance through
large doorway. Here also are the finest'Manicure Rooms
in Svdn"V. Add (id. f>r postage.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cared without operation. T hen send for particulars
of oar perfcctf ittic2
Automatic Air Cushion appliance
the DcET RUPTUtt ■ F-.PPL IAXg Or THE CENTURY
Twj Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fie;
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St..Melbourne,Vic
POLICY ion the COMMONWEALTH
Price, (Id. The Bulletin Office.
A


“Trotter” breaks out for no visible reason,
using many capital letters :
Ex (and Exited) Premier Bent’s most curious experi-
ence was a jaunt to Calcutta for the Exhibition many
years ago, with Bosisto and Jack Woods, who was con-
verted by that trip to be a furious Sabbatarian. Before
it he joked in Parliament about the Sunday trains taking
“the greasy saints to their superstition shops.” How-
ever,, this is Ancient History, and reads like Mummy-
dust. Few Australians see Calcutta. For a solid view of
India you need to visit Calcutta and Delhi, as well
as Bombay. Calcutta is not an English varnish
on an old native city ; it is an English creation.
After circumnavigating, one has a myriad-minded vision
of the prodigiously incredible Wharves of the Globe, at
London, Liverpool, Hamburg, Hew York, San Francisco,
Hong Kong (claiming to have the most, vessels) and Cal-
cutta, in golden haze or grey mist. It is a difficult point
to adjudge, but, on the whole, the most fiercely stimu
lative air, or atmosphere, in such regions is on the
Calcutta quays, with San Francisco neck and neck, like
Blue Book and that other horse in the Caulfield Cup.
The Hooghlyisone of the numerous mouths of the mighty
sacred Ganges, and as sacred as any. Its sacredness is
not a whit diminished by the English traffic. A vener-
able Chawbacon, in a smock frock and fuzzy white
belltopper, said to Hingston at Melbourne, in Derby-
shire: “Our Melbourne was here 800 years before
yours was thought of, and will be here SOO years
after yours is forgot.” So with the Holy Hooghly.
A certain great Job Charnock founded Calcutta in 1690.
A stalwart Irish laborer said to me the other day : “ Our
grand ould Roman Church has Min, Sir—Min. Its Min
are not like the Protestant Barbers’ clerks and counter
jumpers.” Well, India had “Min” in Charnock’s time.
He founded Calcutta in the Same arbitrary manner as
Peter founded St. Petersburg. He forcibly clawed off the
wood-stack a beautiful young Indian widow about to be
burnt. They lived together as happily as Hastings and
his Austrian Baroness. There are 57 languages spoken in
Calcutta. Yet even the chief Native Bazaar, or Street, is
nowhere so picturesque as corresponding thoroughfares
m Bombay or Delhi. A bit of Gibraltar has more of sharp
color in contrast. Everybody in Calcutta tends to become
Englished, if able to afford it. The European air spreads
as in Tokio.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5h
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
ft .EYE„
ointment
CURES
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular PointecL
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals,
Works: Birmingham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
(paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Samole Box.
THE
MOST PERFECT BICYCLE
IN THE WORLD
can be secured to you by having: one built to your order of
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
You must, however, be on your guard against the substitution of cheap imitation
parts and should make it an absolute condition that the B.S.A. trade mark of
‘‘3 piled rifles” appears on every component part of your new bicycle. You
cannot do better than get a copy of the 1908 B.S.A. Handbook. Study our latest
designs, make youself familiar with our trade marks, read all about Eadie Coaster
Hubs, Two-Speed Gears, Free Wheels, &c. We pay a heavy duty on
these Handbooks but we supply them free to all cyclists.
Write to D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building,
MELBOURNE.
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes ” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddoeks, in which she explains
her reason for offering £lOO lteward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
BLAIRS
■Gout
Pills
V^k
t Rheumatic
PULLS
SAFE
AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
FOR
COUT
and
RHEUMATISM
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
ftLAIR'S GOUT and
Rheumatic pills elimi-
nate the poieon from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
therefore PERFECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at I/IX and 2/9.
CLAIR’S HAVE STOOC
THE TEST OF TIME.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
mltltn
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being’ necessary.
The “Allenburys" Foods are so graduated as to provide
the inaximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEISI &. HANBLJRYS Ltd., LONDON, # Bridge 1P Lottus Sts., Sydney
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 190 S edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book uy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handyiiook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. MyNkigiibor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin senes. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), priee Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, ls.2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m.
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR 11 PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in'plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
irj its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. . How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From SncJwy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning OalculatolL’Ts. ’"Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts’, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The VVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. gO~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street. Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. CiievaSse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
Food.
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.*S.W.
15he LEADING
HOUSE
vSporting' Goods
Fishing TacKle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 3Os. or more.
WINCHESTER
Just landed 1906 Model Rifle, Improved; handles -22 short,
long or long Rifle Cartridges, mixed or separately,
POSTAGE—2/3, N.S.W. ; 4/2, Inter-State—EXTRA.
42/6
Send for Illustrated Sports and
Fishing Catalogues FREE.
CANT
B
BEAT
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, Sydney, and
Hunter Street, Newcastle .
Branches: Church Street, Parramatta; 197 Oxford Street, Sydney;
113 King Street, Newtown; 273 Darling Street, Balmain.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Postage to any Address
I * in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reedsi Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d. ;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Aecordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE.
COOLS, AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
BEETHAjvTS LAIT LAROLA
Invaluable
forlheSKlN
in HOT
or COLD
climates.
Removesall
IRRITATION
andTAN.
LAIT
xx/ro
Reg
M.BEETHAM & SON,
CHELTENHAM, ENG LAND.
Gives a
Perfect
[OMPLEXIOH
Soft
as
Velvet.
BEETHAM'S LAIT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
<-<<.< < « «
V-* * » V v V.'V Tt *
i. •%. y. **■ a• £ v >
>»\\
-
-S
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. • in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion "
the only machi*e on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion"
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MARK A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we giveaway. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. C.P.0., Sydney, fI.S W.
MAhUMbI
ZJifot/ierhamb
I English Watches
Prize Awards.- London 1851, Paris 1889.
Lonoon IB6Z. Melbourne 1888. Kimberley 1892.
r ,A
fl Certificate g/vei\
WITH EACH WATCH.
M
s
ROTHE
RH AMS
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
PLASMON
PLASNQ
REG? iflEOl IAR
AT THE ANTARCTIC.
Commander E. H. Shackleton, R.N., states:
“ We used Plasmon preparations continually during the
National Antarctic Expedition, and one of our sledging
parties practically lived on Plasmon.”
Mr. Douglas Mawson, lecturer of Adelaide University, says:
“Of all the foods, the Plasmon foods were used mostly —
Plasmon Biscuits, Plasmon Cocoa, and Plasmon itself.”
Dr. Marshall, Medical Officer of the Expedition, states:
“ Plasmon Biscuits and Plasmon Cocoa were of tremendous
value.”
Plasmon is an unequalled NERVE & BRAIN FOOD, con-
taining the Organic SALTS and PHOSPHORUSof MILK.
PLASMON is USED by the ROYAL FAMILY.
Of all chemists, grocers and stores.
PLASMON, Ltd., London.
Australian Depot: 5 and 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
A


Note
Trade Mark.
5!
IW»I AOO«PT AwU POflftl
?
{<l HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
lZ=i?=r~f
MONEYS, UVER ANO BOWEL*,
m
'/ owbt
jh«w mu lunoon t c.
Four Health Facts,
1. 111-health very often arises from a constipated
condition.
2. This condition is seriously aggravated by
purgatives, but easily overcome by the
natural influence of
3* California Syrup of Figs, “Nature's Pleasant
Laxative,” gently, pleasantly, and promptly
rectifies the sluggish digestive organs, ar.d
leaves them permanently benefited.
4. It especially suits delicate women and chil-
dren.
Emphasise the word CALIFORNIA when purchasing, and look for the circle Trade
Mark in Blue at top of package. From all Chemists, 1/3 and i/n.
The very best which the
Old Country produces.
Horrockses
Unequalled for
make, style
finish and durability
FLANNELETTES
SHEETINGS
LONG CLOTHS, etc.
Sold by all Drapers and Storekeepers
G.&G.H9 See “ HORROCKSES 1 ” name on
the Selvedg
The Association ol Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
When ordering from Agents please insist
upon every article of plate being stamped:—
aaia
King's, Queen’s, Piddle,
Rat-Tail, Oid English, Albany,
Qadroon and Fancy Patterns.
Crests and
Monograms
Engraved,
4s. per dozen.
■
pEPfI
We have the
finest
selection of
CANTEEXS
in
LONDON,
prices from
£4 4s. Od.
£lOO.
Please write lor
SPECIAL
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET.
TOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase cheaper
and better than you are now doing. Write lor our Illustrated Cata-
logue. 6,000 Illustrations Post Free to any part ol the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
«
O'
u
That’s it
Ahl
The connoisseur can tell 0.0.
Whisky every time. Its fragrance,
its mellowness, its unique and
delicate flavour appeal at once
to the man with the discerning
palate.
And the water from which 0.0,
Whisky is made is so pure. It
springs from the Heather-Clad
Hills of Orkney, far removed from
human habitation. Money cannot
buy a better O.O.
is perfection.
May we send you our booklet “ Farthest
North, ' together with name of .nearest
•0.0. Agent > .
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House. Arundel Street, W.C.
Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
Proprietors of
(
Old
lORKnev
The Pilot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALERT and ever-ready—all ship-shape, trim
and bright,
A stout boat on the davits hung out by
day and night—
The Pilot, at her moorings, swings restless with the
tide,
As if she knew and envied the company outside.
All times the lookout hearkens—his functions to
fulfil—
The voice of lamp and bunting high up on Signal
Hill.
A red light, at her masthead, burns through the
night alway
When all good folk are dreaming in all the world
away.
Oft, drowsily digesting the thoughts of need and
deed,
When midnight turns towards morning, I hear a
shrill “Proceed!”
In half-awakened fancy—while good folk keep
their beds—
I glimpse some inward Argo awaiting off the
Heads.
Perchance a lumber schooner, from Puget with
her load,
That aids the builder finish a city man’s abode.
Across the vast Pacific from “Bear” to “Cross”
she’s swung
To shout of loud sea orders and rolling chanteys
sung.
Across the wondrous ocean that proud Pizarro
hailed,
A hard-faced Yankee skipper successfully hath
sailed.
His bo’sun from New Bedford ; his mate, who,
doubtless, too
Could curse in seven lingoes and “ haze ” a sullen
crew.
I o-night they’ll hit the city with money in the
purse.
And seek their recreation for better or for worse ;
They’ll walk with fickle Phryne; with Bacchus
sally forth
To booze in classic Pyrmont and brawl in George-
street North.
We trust this briny ballad, uncultured, will not
shock
The beaux who air their graces to belles of four
o’clock.
Our Jacks are not the fashion, no social circles
know;
They slave across the oceans and drink a while
and go.
They get no band to cheer them, no toast artistic
brown,
No waiting maids in muslin to bring the tea-trays
down ;
They meet no gay acquaintance with jovial quip
and grin
Who run the “roaring forties” and fetch the
cargoes in.
Perchance a lordly liner the Pilot proudly waits—
A tall, important stranger, who calls without the
Gates.
Ah, here the picture changes ! Now madame
need not fear—
A liner’s manner’s perfect; her morals, too, I
hear.
A diva and a doctor, a maestro from Milan,
A baronet (in knickers), a bishop—saintly man
Whose thirst is quenched with Moet; how shocked
he’d surely be
To hear they had no stewards upon Lake Galilee !
Gilt mouldings in the state rooms, in evening
dress to dine,
A pianola playing, and ladies, love and wine—
So comes the floating palace, and, if I dream
aright,
Her steerage and her stokehold are somewhere
out of sight.
When Gabo in the winter is warding off the blows
Of giant winds that, cradled in dark Antarctic
snows,
Come tearing up from Tasman; the Pilot in his
place
Awaits the call of duty, unruffled, blithe of face.
’Tis choppy down the harbor; there’s surf on
Middle Head;
The coasters run for shelter, the sky is roofed with
lead,
The rollers break in thunder, and flying spume
and spray
Go drifting o’er the headlands of wind-swept
Watson’s Bay.
Naught heed these sturdy sea-dogs—ex-skippers,
bluff and strong,
Who make the Pilot Service that helps the world
along.
The bells below are clanging; a waiting ship’s in
need—
Run up your bit o’ bunting ! And let the boat
proceed !
She drops her harbor moorings, the smoke pours
out a-lee,
She dances to the music and dares the combing
sea;
And if her boats won’t live it, he’ll signal o’er the
foam '
To bid the stranger “Follow”—and lead him
safely home.
So dapper and so steady, so neat, alert and gay—
’Tis good to see the Pilot on watch by nighc and
day.
And glad are they to greet him, the skippers and
their crews,
To help him o’er the taffrail and get his latest
news.
The first to say “Good-morrow,” the last to bid
“ Good-bye,”
Whatever port they hail from, whatever flag they
Hy;
He sets them on the high road, their homeward
coasts to win;
He meets them in the offing and brings them
surely in.
All pilots go to Heaven, as ev’ry seaman knows ;
No matter what his failings, nor yet how bad his
clothes.
No pilot ever reaches the Port of Pitch and
Flame,
For Charon takes him over; and Charon knows
the game !
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
His Visit to the Home Country.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
II must not be supposed that the honor-
able race of Missing Links from whom we
are descended had no idea, as they watched
themselves grow in grace, of the superiority they
were developing over all the rest of creation.
Somewhere among them they held the Master
K e y> and naturally each species strove tooth and
nail to find out which, and, holding it, to keep
it. Among them all none knew the value of
eulchah ’ better than our particular colony of
ancestors that ran on the land where the English
Channel now flows, England being then joined
to the mainland.
It is astonishing that after a space of hundreds
of thousands of years such local pre-eminence
should still hold good, and that far and away the
most advanced and estimable of the anthropoids of
the present day are ('with certain remarkable
exceptions in the Southern Hemisphere) still
found in the lands immediately around the
before-mentioned piece of water. But we are not
going into that here.
What fills us with patriotism and pride is, that
in that long, long ago, long before Caesar or any
of that crowd, it was our very own lot that gradu-
ally worked its way north and west to new con-
fines, where it could pursue its exceptional destiny
uncontaminated and unmolested by the other
Link families—the rougher-skinned and longer-
tailed monkeys that infested the trees of what are
now parts of Europe and Asia. The advances
they had made gave them very good ground for
believing that this front-door key of the kingdom
of the earth belonged to them. Hot only had they
discarded walking on all fours, and went upright
on their two “hinders” like us, but they were as
yet the only species in the world that thought of
using sticks and stones, or any outside aids, as
weapons of offence and defence. They had also
learned, when caves were not available, to
construct themselves rude houses to live in.
There are rude houses found in these localities to
this very day. It would be remarkable indeed if,
with the cranial development that all these things
meant, they had failed to perceive that their
destiny marked them off from the rest, and that
they had, by hook or by crook, jumped to the
very top—such top as there was at that time.
And with that very cranial development came,
when the time was ripe, reflection and the be-
ginnings of archaeological instinct. And one
day the ardent desire of Reginald, an advanced
Link, to visit what we may call his home countrv
—that is, the rougher place down south—and see
the land and the people he had sprung from,
started Geographical Research. Not that this
archaeological instinct hung around in great folds
as it does at present. All the ancient Link felt
was a casual inclination that he would like to
bend his rovings in that direction, and see what
father’s and mother’s people were like, and it
being a time when performance followed hotfoot
on thought, he forthwith set out.
The very idea argues advancement, and he was
no slouch of a Link that struck it. In fact, he
was one of the dandies of the tribe —a fine voung
fellow, that walked on end for miles, hardly ever
requiring assistance from his front hands, and
he could shy boulders and whack sticks with the
best of them. His fur was fine, delicate and
smooth ; his dress, other than this, consisted of a
smooth knobby club which he had fashioned
himself and always carried about with him. He
did not trust, like common, improvident Links, to
the chance of breaking off a branch, or finding a
stone handy on emergency.
Before mentioning what was really one of his
main attractions it is necessary to understand
here the exact place the tail occupied in our
economy at that time.
It was fast disappearing in all the more ad-
vanced families, getting shorter and shorter, and
now it was so short that it could hardly be called
a tail, being only about three or four inches long.
A lot of nonsense is often talked about tails, and
much silly importance attached to the question of
tails or no tails, many in this twentieth century
professing to regard a tail as unheard of and unthink-
able, simply because they do not know enough.
The real secret lies in the middle course. Ex-
tremes are always wrong. Big, awkward tails—
great snaky things yards and yards long—are no
use to anybody. They are even a positive
nuisance, especially in small, crowded apartments.
But a little thing like this that remained to our
people at the time we are speaking of was orna-
mental more than anything else. You scarcely
thought of it as a tail at all.
Moustaches and pointed beards would have
been quite ineffective at such a time until all the
other hair had disappeared from the face, and
that did not happen for many ages after. On the
other hand, this small caudal appendage, although
too short for fly-whisking, especially seeing that
some of the flies then weighed a pound to a
pound and a half, exactly filled the place occupied
to-day by the waxed moustache. It was curried
and curled with great lovingness by its happv
possessor, who rightly recognised in it another
trait by which his people marked themselves off
from the chimpanzee and other retrograde portions
of the genus.
* * * *
But that is enough about the tail—let us get on
with the narrative.
He had many adventures in the strange country
he passed through. Large winged bats were very
troublesome on the continent that year—horrid
creations with a spread of 20ft. from tip to tip -
a sort of vampire that would swoop down on you be-
fore you knew where you were. Luckily they could
only do business by dropping down on the unwary
directly from above, and Reginald was never
there when the vampire landed. He had always
left, and his enemy struck the ground hard. One
had to keep one’s eyes skinned all the time.
Almost at the very gates, as it were, of his fore-
bear’s ancient village, some four-footed beast
sprung murderously on to him, and was so very
annoying, and spat and howled so much that he
had to brain it with his club for the sake of peace.
Nothing could exceed the general surprise
when cousin Reginald walked .into the ancient
camp of his ancestors one fine morning and ex-
changed greetings. What saved him from the
attacks usually dealt out to the unfamiliar by such
mobs can only be explained by the profound un-
certainty that always exists where animals’ moods
are concerned. For, compared with him, they
were animals—big hairy things, going down on
all fours at the slightest excuse, and with none of
his polished ways about them.
They, of course, did not see all this, and it was
not a little humiliating when a couple of the
ugliest and oldest of them would keep looking
hard from him to one another and telling him he
was the image of his old great-great-uncle to a
hair.
But the good honest Links made much of him,
according to their lights. He was like a towny-
in the bush to them. Young and old all got
(Continued on next page.)


1
’'/A
2 HOSPITALS
10 Months’
Agony
with
Terrible
Burns —
Leg and
Arm
Roasted.
t;
*7
CQS
ONE of the most astounding feats of wound-healing
and skin-growing ever recorded has been accom-
plished by Zam-Buk, the case being a severe, yet
conclusive, test of the powers of this wonderful healing
balm. Mrs. W. Bewick, of Euambeline, Dandaloo,
N.S.W., sustained terrible burns through her clothes
catching fire whilst cooking at an open fireplace on
Weetawaa Station, Wee Waa, northern New South
Wales. Her injuries, which were extensive and
serious, defied all ordinary ointments and lotions, and
baffled the skill of doctors and hospitals. Scores and
scores of stubborn wounds of all sorts have done the
same, but they have ail surrendered completely, just
as Mrs. Bewick’s case has done, to the invincible
XJ healing powers of Zam-Buk.
Mrs. Bewick saysl cannot sufficiently express my gratitude for the benefits
I have derived from the use of Zam-Buk Balm, and I have the greatest pleasure in
sending you the following details of my wonderful cure.
“ Some sixteen months ago, through an accident while cooking at an open re-
place at Weetawaa Station, Wee Waa, I was severely burnt through my clothes
catching fire. My right leg and arm were almost roasted, the leg being one great
wound from the knee to the thigh.
“I was all inmate of the Wee Waa Hospital for three months, but received no benefit from their
treatment. I was then transferred to St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, where I lay for■another three long
months with the same disappointing: results—all the efforts of doctors and nurses failed to dome an.\ g .
At the end of that time the doctors at the hospital told me they could do no more for me, and I_was se t
home. I was an invalid at. home for the treatment prescribed at St. me s>
Hospital, but still remaining: the same, and, what was more disheartening to me, without seeing a
glimmer of hope of my ever being cured. ... . ~,
“ At this time a friend dropped in to see me, and on telling hei a few facts
relative to my trouble, she strongly urged me to give Zam-Buk a trial. lat
once acted on her recommendation, and am thankful to say that
months’ treatment with Zam-Buk T _am_perfpctly_cured. It is now four
months since the last wound on my leg healed, and, as there is no sign what-
ever of any break-out, I have every reason to believe that my cure is a
permanent one. , _ i .
“ I would also like to add that, through lying in bed for so long, the smews of
my right knee were contracted, the leg beingdoubledalmost right under, and
I was obliged to walk on a crutch when I first got up. However, by perse-
vering with Zam-Buk, rubbing it well into the sinews, I can now walk as well
as ever I could. .
You have niv assurance of always keeping a pot of Zam-Buk Balmain my
home, and again tender my deepest gratitude for my wonderful cure.
ZAM-BUK is In-
valuable for Cuts,
Bruises, Burns,
Scalds, Abrasions,
Boils, Eczema, Pim-
ples, Scalp Diseases,
Poisoned Wounds,
Festering Sores, Bad
Legs, Ulcers, Ab-
scesses, Ringworm,
Psoriasis, Bar-
ber’s Rash, and all
injured and diseased
conditions of the
Skin. Zam-Buk is ob-
tainable from all
Chemists and Stores
at Is. 6d. per pot, and
3s. 6d. family size
(containing nearly
four times the Is. 6d.
pot).
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
kmßuk
A CHRISTMAS FEAST
, ,
Specially prepared by CHARLES DICKENS.
PEARS’ ANNUAL
1909.
Contains Four Stories specially written for
tha Christmas Season by CHARLES DICKENS.
DOCTOR MARIGOLD. 11. GOING INTO SOCIETY.
BOOTS AT THE HOLLY TREE INN.
THE STORY OF RICHARD DOUBLEDICK.
I.
111.
IV. _
With very numerous and entirely new Illustrations specially drawn for this Annual by
Frank Dadd, Hugh Thomson, J. C. Dollman and Will Owen
In a superb Pictorial Cover, together with
Four Beautiful Presentation Plates
Each in about 12 Colours.
Now
Ready,
I. “Naughty Boy!
or Compulsory Education.”
By Beiton Riviere, R.A.
11. “It’s Grand!’
or “ Up in the Clouds.”
111. “OhMy!” or
“Down in the Dumps.”
A most attractive pair by
William Hunt.
IV. “ Some of Life’s
Pleasures,” By
E. G. Handel Lucas.
Sold by all Booksellers.
Agents for Australasia—
GORDON & GOTCH.
round, stroking his delightfully smooth skin,
handling his club, and wondering what it was,
because they had not got to weapons as yet. It was
by signs and sounds he scarce understood that
they would say : “ What is this for?” “ What a
funny little tail! ” “See mine!!” “How many
sisters have you got?” “Doyou like rhinoceros?’
“Shut up, mother! Can’t you see lie’s going to
speak?”
And for a while the joy of kindred and fellow-
ship smoothed over the disagreeableness of their
manners, their coarse fur and uncouth faces, and
all the snuffle and snort of their excitement. But
that amount of tolerance was soon over, and in a
day or two lie had more than enough of it, and
wished himself well back. And as his disgust
waxed greater and more unbearable, his entangle-
ments increased. One of his “ cousins, ’ big
enough to eat him, and about Gin. taller (when
she was standing up), had been struck all of a
heap with him from the very start. Poor girl, it
was a case of love at first sight, and she followed
him about everywhere, taking all sorts of liberties,
without so much as “by your leave,” and saying
“Ask me in church!” which he was plainly re-
solved not to do.
How could he take home one of these great
hairy things to a White Link part like his ? W hy,
their very tails were all over the place, like ropes,
coiled and uncoiled. It was like being at sea for
tripping over them.
No ! It could never be !
The girl herself, too —how could he bring him-
self to like her? Her emotions were dVeadful to
behold and endure. She would blow hard and
incessantly, and snort and sniff and splutter all
over him, and make him shockingly untidy.
No! A thousand times no ! It was impossible !
Why is love blind that it will go for objects that
are so unattainable, so unsuitable, so superior ?
O woman ! woman ! why ?
But just as things were in this state, in came a
party dragging along with much wailing the dead
body of their great-great-grandparent that they
had found slain in the woods, and, to his horror,
Reginald recognised in the departed the wild-
looking object he had clubbed a few days before
—the “animal” that had sprung on to him so
viciously just outside the village. But they knew
nothing of this, nor guessed anything, and of
course he kept quiet about it. All the same,
what with one thing and another, it was a place
to get out of at the very earliest. Relations were
disappointing and embarrassing, and he had made
a mistake in coming ! So he slipped away in the
twilight, and in the shadows of the mighty forests
made great headway in the night towards free-
dom and the north, promising himself to avoid
the ancestral country in the future.
Weary enough as it got on towards morning,
what should he hear coming along behind but
gloating sounds of hail and greeting that he knew
only too well. It was She.. She had missed him,
had tracked him, scented him, or stumbled on
him, and was pursuing him on all-fours and snort-
ing terribly.
One glance back at her was enough to put fresh
spring into his stride. He did a sprint of a couple
of miles on impulse. Avoiding the trees, as the
bears do, he made for the mountains, not taking
the easy places but seeking every difficult bit that
he thought might baulk her. A rocky river-bed
he crossed by jumps from stone to stone; bottom-
less chasms he cleared by frightful leaps. Still he
could not lose her, and she pressed him hard. In
desperation he headed for the foot of a precipi-
tous face of basalt. He would fling his life away
on an impossible climb—or be free of her ! How
he scaled it he knew not; but on the top he
breathed more easily. He was safe now ! Her
large hands and feet, like carpet bags, so used to
the grasping of thick branches, would never find
hold enough on that perpendicular wall.
There was a stretch of green sward on the top,
ending on the other side in a sort of canyon
hidden by bushes all round its edge. He re-
cognised the place—he had passed it before, on
his other journey, and he could now from this
height discern the indications of much of the
route he had come by, and also was to go back by.
He was taking breath and noting all this when
he heard her behind him again! She had
mounted the wall somehow, and was almost right
on him, an allegory of blind, ungovernable brute
jealousy, transformed into foaming hate and fury.
He was done, and there was little time, but he
took what chance there was. He ran boldly as if
for the edge of the canyon. It was hidden by
bushes; she might not know it was there.
So frighted was he that he almost overdid it.
He only just managed by a fluke to throw himself
on to the ground at the very edge of the precipice,
instead of going over. As he did so, she, panting
and fuming in full tear, bounded over hirt),
crashed through the bushes and went out of sight.
He never saw her more.
And, after a good long rest, he cleaned himself
up again a bit and resumed the home stretch,
arriving at last with his tail somewhat ruffled and
minus his club, but plus his experience.
G. BRON.
Concerning a Tram-Fare.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
conductor hurled himself on to the
I dummy and yelled : —“ Fares—Pleeze.”
The “please” seemed an afterthought.
The little elderly man asleep on the back seat
awoke with a start, fumbled with palsied fingers
through various pockets, produced a threepenny-
bit and dropped it on the floor.
Then began a fruitless search and much expen-
diture of good matches.
The coin could not be found.
“You’ll have to pay agen,” said the conductor.
“Haven’t got no more,” replied the old man,
helplessly.
“Well, you'll have to git off,” said the con-
ductor firmly.
“I paid yer,” cried the ancient fine,
“No, you dropped it. You’ll have to pay agen
or git off.”
The old man began to grow hysterical.
The fat man on the side rose in his seat and
glanced round at the other voyagers.
“ I'll pay for the poor old man,” he said, mag-
nanimously, in a loud voice.
The conductor punched the fare.
“ ’Off did you come to drop it ? ” asked the fat
man.
“ Slipped outer me hand,” said the elderly gent.
“Well, no matter,” said the philanthropist;
“I paid fer yer.”
“ Yes, thank you kindly.”
“If I hadn’t o’paid fer yer, you’d’ave’ad to
git off.”
“Yes, I’m much obliged.”
“Not at all! Not at all!” said the fat
Simaritan, magnificently. “ Thripence ain’t
nothin’ to me.”.
“ Thank you kindly,” said the old man, humbly.
“ Live fay down?” inquired the stout person,
after a pause.
“ Brighton-road.”
“Phew ! you’d ’ave ’ad a longish walk—if I
’adn’t o’ paid fer yer.”
“Yes ; I’m very grateful.”
“ Lucky for you I was on the tram, eh ? ”
“Yes ; it’s very good o’ you.”
A pause of several minutes, during which the
fat philanthropist sat with the complacent smile
of one who is conscious of having done a good
deed, while the old man peered anxiously at the
dark floor.
The benevolent one cleared his throat.
“ Did it drop outer yer’and afore you give it
him, or did it drop atween yer, or did lie drop it
’imself?” he inquired, reopening the subject.
“Yes,” replied the old man, bewildered.
He started in to explain how the catastrophe
befell. “ I paid him all right,” he concluded.
“ No, yer never,” said the fat man, fiercely, “ I
paid him for yer.”
“Yes. thank you,” said the old man, still eye-
ing the floor.
The tram went on steadily.
Present!}’ the conductor reappeared on the
dummy.
“I paid you,” mumbled the old man directly
he saw him.
“Not it! You dropped it outer yer ’and.”
“ I paid you,” insisted the hoary one, doggedly.
“Get out! I paid’im for yer,” chimed in the
fat passenger.
“ I had it in me ’and like so, an’ I paid you.”
“ You didn’t,"'s&\d the stout man, bitterly. “/
paid ’im, an’ if I hadn't you’d have ’ad to walk.”
“ I paid ’im all right.”
“ YOU NEVER!" shouted the adipose fare.
“ / paid ’im.”
“ I ’ad it in me hand.”
“Yes, and you dropped it. see; an’l paid for
you, an’if it’s found it’s MINE —you ungrateful
ole cuss, you. Ain’t it, conductor?”
The conductor said it was.
The old man got excited afresh. The fat man
snorted indignantly, and explained the situation
in full to a new arrival.
“ I paid you,” whined the old man.
“’Ere, for the Lord’s sake, Bill, stop the flamin’
tram while I gits this settled,” cried the conductor
to his mate.
The tram stopped. The conductor rushed to
the front, unhooked the headlight and brought it
to the back. The fat man leaned over anxiously
to watch his interests.
The threepenny-bit was discovered lurking in a
corner.
“ I knew I paid you,” cried the old man trium-
phantly.
“It’s mine!" shouted the fat individual, grab-
bing it out of the conductor's hand. “ I paid for
’im.”
The light was replaced, The passengers re-
sumed their seats. The tram went on, and silence
reigned, save for the snorts of the fat man—the
indignant snorts of one who has met with bitter
ingratitude, and the plaintive murmur of the som-
nolent old man on the back seat: “I paid you !
I knew I paid yon !”
ALF BRASCH.
More Tanami Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
leaders take the Track again—
I They’re tramping Further Back again.
The pioneers are hurrying beyond the
desert's marge;
They take the gleaming Road again—
The Wander-lust shall goad again,
Shall send them forth intrepidly, with hopes
serene and large !
They leave the feeble falterers.
The doubters and the palterors —
The strong shall bear the burden still and blaze
Australia's way ;
The weak may keep the trammelled track—
They take the many-camelled track,
The men from old Dead Finish and the men from
Break o’ Day.
The Legions of the Resolute
By pathways long and desolate
Have burst the gates of Fortune wide from Klon-
dyke to Waihi;
The bad. the bold, the vigorous—
The Way (who cares ?) is rigorous—
Shall take the Road, shall stake the Road—the
Road to Tanami !
’Tis thus the Nations founded are—
Their borders fixed and bounded are
By men who dare to take the Way unto the
desert’s heart;
The men, whose bones upon the Track
Are bleaching now, have won the Track
For those who followed after them and builded
town and mart!
The stamps that chant eternally,
The mills that roar infernally—
They lift a mighty requiem for that forgotten
file ;
The men who tramped Coolgardie way—
Who took the stern and hardy way ;
The men (they’re dead, the most of them) who
found the Golden Mile !
For these the stamps o’ Boulder chant—
For men who sleep and moulder, chant—
All hail, ye roaring batteries: whilst weaklings
cringe and sigh.
Ye lift a song of bravery
For those who spurn drab slavery,
For those who take the Road again—the Road to
Tanami !
The grey dawns see them travelling,
The pioneers, unravelling
The secrets of the wilderness with pick and spade
and bar;
The stamps some day a-clamoring
Will lift their voices, hammering
Where packs and dusty camel-trains to-day are
trekking far.
In them there is no faltering,
No turning back nor paltering—
These men who build a Commonwealth with blood
and human bones;
These men who wander forth again,
Who bear the standard north again,
The flag of the adventurers who spoil this planet’s
zones.
Who knoweth what she holdeth them,
The siren who enfoldeth them.
Who knoweth what the end shall be—the
Bayleys sleeping lie.
In faith they take the track again
In hope they haste Outback again,
The Leaders’ feet are on the long far Road to
Tanami.
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


“I was troubled greatly with
pimples on the face and neck,
which so-called blood medicines I
used did not remove. I then,
about-two years ago, began with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and I have
not been troubled with the pim-
ples since. You can use this photo
and testimonial as you like. ”
Miss B. Johnson, Adelaide.
Blotches, rashes, pimples, eczema, boils, are not sim-
ply signs of a little trouble on the surface of the body.
The real trouble is down deep in the blood itself.
AYER'S Sarsaparilla
purifies the blood and brings back to the skin all its soft,
natural, and healthy condition.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Look
outfor imitationsthat will only disappoint you. Get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Loweli, Mass., IT. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
birds
3^.USTARD.ji
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived me Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In ÜBe since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, tlO, Lain bet 11 Korin Loudon. Eng.
m
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE * BREAKSPEAR.
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
The BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Senes. IV V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
oa. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Superior to *
k INJECTIONS
IcUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
|f Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
-■gyp 3“BU aq) sasaq sjnsdej ipeg
yjnoq Sf
ui
COLORED POST CARDS,~by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLiS BROWSE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
V*4. 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup. Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS. COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts lire a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
JBO
m
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
'The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the •
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models. 1
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bel! Metal Reeds,.price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Mclb.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
~ ‘
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Wl\ar is l\on\e <oifi\ovif >
BEEOIAMS PHIS
lb proved sick keadack@s,&c.?
BUnOVWHISV
GHIMAULTS INDIAN CIEARETTFS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nerrons Coughs.
TTT tt s d t oppreesion immediately
* e , ?„% cd fc y , GPJ MAULT & Co’S INDIAN CIGAR,
ii 1 I I,S. iSo d by all Chemists.
EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
y Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. ' The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
H.Hillier,
161Ceorg-eSt.West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer , Importer.
Sporting Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £ll 10s.
Governess Carts, Photons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set, £3 11s. Double Harness,
£5 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
The Pen for YOU.
The , Swan ’ Fountpen is built for writing comfort —
it is not a toy it has no pistons or valves, it works
automatically (if unconscious writing could be described as
working). The holder is made
to hold the maximum amount
of ink in the most comfortable
yet strong form of pen holder.
Our illustrated booklet tells
about the “ SWAN ” —w-rite for
it to-day—post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and Branches.
Australasian BranchJAS. A. BURKE, 15
Waltham Building., 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
INSIST ON


How About Sand Shoos?
“ The waves are foil of whispers wild and sweety
They call to me—inoessantly they beat.”
No doabt you, too, feel the oall of the surf, aad
long to get down to tbe beaoh or away ia a boat.
Ton'd And a pair <jt saad shoes
T«ry useful when you so. How
about a pair of theseT
“National Yachting,” of
white canvas, with white
rubber sole, leather insole,
lined. Men’s, 6/8; Women’s,
5/0; Bows', 5/B; Little Boys',
5/3.
“ Champion," of black oaa-
vafi. A special for men at 2/H
“Hammer" Shoes, of tan
canvas, with red sole—for little
boys and girle—VH.
Other styles are quoted In
our Spring Catalogue. Would
you like a free oopy T
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,"
270 George Street, Sydney.
m
r
ELECTRIC HAULAGE
and other
Electric
PLANT
*gs
m
m
FOR
MINES.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
€>
in abundance
Hay be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES j
A:
Write for
“ B"
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 64 ,
Packet of Ten. sd.
IT IS SATISFACTION
ALL THE TIME WITH A
It is the Best for-*
THE STATION,
THE FARM,
THE SAWMILL,
THE BUTTER FACTORY,
For IRRIGATION, or where-
ever Power is required.
DAVEY-PAXMAN
(Portable) STEAM ENGINE.
AGENTS-
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD.,
5 & 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
And at 14 Currie Street* Adelaide, S-A.
ALSO—
Moffet-Virtoe Sheep Shearing Machinery.
Agents In N.S.W. for—
BLACKSTONE OIL ENGINES.
Agents In N.S.W. for—
HLGOUR ACETYLENE GENERATORS.
Sole Agents for—
OIL SHEEP RIP. [No. »
FERRANTI. LI»
Specialities:
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE : E. S. & A. Bank Chambers, George Street.
METERS. SWITCH GEAR, High and Low Tension MEASURING INSTRUMENTS.
We do Business that brings Repeat Orders. Send us your Inquiries.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDHEY.
45 Adelaide Sheet. BRISBAHE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFUTH
St. George’s Terrace, *£>RiU.
7 -Pine Street ADELAIDE.
I
KEY-LOCK
BRA
P
THE NEW BUILDING MATERIAL.
Speciality :
Complete Electric
40 Clarence Street, Sydney;
172 William Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS FOR
ILGNER
FLYWHEEL
Elect ric Wi nders
The Mount Lyell Co. has installed one of these hoists to raise 50 tons
per hour at a maximum hoisting speed of 1500 feet per minute.
PHILIPS PRESSED STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
CAM
<OO tA
BRAND .
BATTERY SHOE
D
Many Competitive Tests have been made, and
The “CAM BRAND” FORGED STEEL
Shoes, Dies, Cams and tappets have won the day.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George St,, Sydney; 486 Collins St, Melbourne.
CAM
□
BRAND.
