

e
•9
107 Kent street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Jeffrey Coal
Handling Plants.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne,
hobaht.
sW—
K[adlsy's Orient fiotel.
PHONE E
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & &on ? Ld .
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
"Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand I
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
ASBESTOS HINES DOORS.
INDIGESTION, etc.,
Can only be properly treated and cured by the
use of Pepsin.
LANGEBEK’S PEPSIN EXTRACT
is the form which givesthe most satisfactory results.
(Extract from letter of Heinrich Orsleff,
Municipal Physician, Harudal, Norway.)
The report of the Physiological Laboratory of
Sydney, N.S.W., says : “ Langebek’s Pepsin . . .
is the most efficient commercial preparation con-
taining Pepsin. . . . and far superior to the official
drugs of the British and German Pharmacopoeias.”
We possess hundreds of signed testimonials from
medical scientists all over the world, which prove
Langebek’s Pepsin Extract to be the best prepara-
tion of its kind. Post free to any address, 3s.
(stamps taken). Obtainable from
E. GOMMESEN & CO„ 45.,
DE MESTRE PLACE, off 308 George Street, Sydney.
all, &alJ(jesui fo£uf{u u -6L ikrir.
THE SECRET OF ITS FOPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
SO
4
\
s
V V CSk
<9
<*
O
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY,
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
I
Royal
Dutch
is the Queen oM Cocoas
IFOR,,
Aroma,Strengtht-Purity:
The right kind of roofing to use is the kind that will give
you satisfaction under all conditions of weather and climate.
MALTHOID will do this. It is inexpensive, and can be easily
and quickly laid by anyone: Directions enclosed with each roll.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
c. A. MacDONALD,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY
PUM
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 § 54 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
MARTELL’S
One Star O. Three Star
BRANDY.
lISH G - <g -«r V T ' IF' - T—yr ■*■ —"V
HELIDON spa water
Please choose your ‘ * SPA” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise .
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 30.- —N°. 1547.]
[Thursday, October 7, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS for BUSINESS !¥IEN
Here are brought tog-ether the Working Handbooks for the. Modern Business Man. ... r
where represent the last word on that subject. Written by experts, who have made a life-long study, and by their
._/.,.„pf„atinrr wicrinm f.hp cardinal Drincinles which make for success in business.
Bottom ley ; Successful Salesmanship —
A book for all outraged in business, 4s, postage Od.
Strong: The Art of Show Card Writing —
A Modern Treatise designed as an Educator in all
branches of the art; 256 illus. and 32 lettering plates,
10s 6d, postage Od. „ .
Gewurx: Wisdom and Success in Adver-
tising.—An Interesting and Educative Manual,
wrapper Is 6d, postage 2d.
The Art of Decorating Show Windows
and Interiors.—A complete Manual of Window
Dressing in all its detals, with very many illus., size
11 x 8 inches, 18s, postage Is 3d.
Cody: Success in Letter Writing.— Deals with
tne Essentials of Success, Forms and Customs, Proper
Style and Business Value of Letter Writing, 35,6 d,
postag e 4rl.
Moody : Men Who Sell Things —An indis-
pensable book for all Salesmen and for Manufacturers,
Merchants, Employers, Sales Managers, and all who
have goods of any kind to sell, 3s'6a, postage 6d.
Edgar : How to Advertise a Retail Store. —
Including Mail Order Advertising and General Adver-
tising. A Complete and Comprehensive Manual for
Promoting Publicity ; illus. with over 800 original
newspaper advertisements, 16s, postage 9d.
Collectively they form a Business Man’s Library—a staff of silent experts gained at
an initial cost, only always on hand for advice.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
*
o
The Larynx
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes 6f a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
bactericidal a* is poBt free on reo e.pt of 1/8 stamps. .
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYD^’ don !?enC ' e
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Stre ,
THE RED PAGE
ROOTS OF DREAMS.
Stand by the fact and let the dream go by,
The painted sunset and the sugared word ;
Turn from the things that no soul felt or heard,
And learn how young men iaugti and old men die.
Forget how forest-haired book-women sigh, |
And their unreal kiss that “ cloys and kills,”
These are no portion of the faet that fills
The spacious heaven of men, and sea and sky.
Stand by the flaming fact and let the sweet
Go, coiled in serpent lengths of platitude ;
Dreams fail as most things fail; the spacious
tract
Of unexplored reality and rude
Emotion fathomless shall take our feet
Across all dreams and gropings to the fact.
VIC.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Maoriland
A book on the Dominion has now been
added to Pitman’s All-Red Series, which
began with B. R. Wise’s Commonwealth
of Australi(i. The work was entrusted
to Arthur Douglas, formerly Under-
secretary for Defence in M.L., who
may have been a good Under-Secretary
but is not an attractive writer. The
aim of the author was to describe Maori-
land as she is for the benefit of readers on
the other side ; and for this purpose a large
mass of detail had to be included. Credit is
due to Arthur Douglas for the evident
care he has taken in collecting his facts
and reading his proofs; but the facts
are presented in a dry and formal way.
The style is not such as would entice the
restless, would-be emigrant to read on with
that enthusiasm which culminates in a de-
cision to go out to God’s Own Country by the
next boat. But journalists and others who
lead the strenuous life will find it valuable
for reference purposes on matters relating to
legislation, commerce, sport, flora, fauna,
etc. For history they can go elsewhere ;
while the physical featured of the country
and the character of the M&ori have been
far more attractively described in W. P.
Reeves’ The Long White Cloud, or Wright and
Reeves’ New Zealand.
Arthur Douglas contents himself with
-providing a plain, unvarnished body of in-
formation without much comment; but at
the end he ventures an opinion—that the
advanced legislation of M.L. has come to
stay. He devotes a chapter to ‘ ‘ Literature
and Art ” which turns out to be the same as
that on snakes in Iceland. It begins cheerfully
—“ That there is no Dominion literature in
the usual acceptation of the term can hardly
be considered! extraordinary ” —and goes on
to explain why you could not expect such a
thing. “As regards music, the same may be
said.” ... “In reference to Art, the same
remark may be made.” .. . “Of sculpture,
there is none deserving special notice.”
We take up A Bibliography of the Literature
Relating to New Zealand, by Dr. T. M.
Hocken, a substantial volume just issued
by the Government Printer, Welling-
ton, and find the compiler stating that,
although the literature relating to the
Dominion is unusually extensive, Doug-
las’s chapter is correct, and the national
poet and painter are still awaited. There
is no one better qualified to speak
about the literature of M.L. tlian Dr. Hocken.
He has spent most of his leisure for many
years past in collecting, reading and
cataloguing all the available printed matter,
and this bibliography is the result. It is
no bald list of books, but a full account of
each item, from Tasman’s Journal of 1643
onwards, with explanatory notes, biographi-
cal information and criticism, synopses of
important periodicals, and a full index.
Anyone writing on M.L. in future will
know where -to find the printed sources of
information ; and anyone who reads the
Bibliography alone will get a better idea of
the history and character of Maoriland than
he would from many of the handbooks.
Bill-Jim in German
About the same time that Dr. Schachner’s
unsatisfactory account of Australia was pub-
lished in Germany, another view of this
country was given in a collection of stories
and sketches, Aus drier neuen Literatur
(From.a new literature), selected and freely
rendered into German by S. Von Kotze. It
will be remembered by Bulletin readers that
Von Kofcze spent some yeai's in Australia,
and wrote some capital verse in English.
He died early this year at the age of 39, after
having published several volumes in German
about southern lands.
This collection of Australian stories has by
way of dedication, the following line in
English :
oh, young Australia, you have come at last!
The preface gives in a few bold strokes a
sketch of this country and its people.
A distinct Australian literature only began
Vf'ith the growth of national sentiment,
I and it began with many disadvantages,
lere are no myths, no legends, no pomp,
> romance, no beasts of prey, no warlike
ibes. No mighty conqueror has manured
e country with blood —the tights with
>originals were police affairs, and did not
quire a Cortez or a Clive. The nation
nerged all of a sudden and developed
trough grey commonplace work to a sort of
nited liability company —and a company is
>or stuff for a singer. The national
;erature began in the bush. Von Kotze
)tes that an astonishing number of
>od books are to be found in diggers and
iearers’ camps. The bushman cannot carry
uch printed matter infjp the “ Godfor-
.kenness,” but he carries good stuff. And
hen he comes to write, his pen may stumble
id stutter, his wit may be caustic, there
tay be no tender realism or melodrama, but
hat he writes is genuine, au naturel.
For the poet of barbarous Australia does
ot want to make gold out of his ink, but
lory. He is the poet of the people, per-
aps the only one who still exists in a white
ace.”
As specimens of this new literature, he has,
owever, not selected poetry but prose. There
re over 50 sketches and stories ; not always
he best available, for some he says are too
haracteristically Australian to render into
Herman without a multitude of explanatory
Lotes. As it was, he had to adapt in many
ases. He avoided “ the amiable mediocrity
if the conventional typeless literature of the
)ld World,” also to be found in the new
vorld, and selected only such stories as present
t high artistic attainment. The material lie
ound in The Bulletin, of which he speaks in
lattering terms —“I also earned my first
yric spurs there, which were quite decently
dlvered, too.” Dorrington and Dyson (more
tequently quoted from than any others),
Lawson, Becke, Steele Rudd, Sorensen,
Kodak, C. A. Jeffries, G. Bron, G. B. Lan-
jaster and a number of other familiar Bul-
letin contributors are here introduced to
3-erman readers. Though their work was
not selected with a view to presenting a
picture of the everyday life of Australia,
this book will convey a more vivid im-
pression than Schachner’s laborious compila-
tion.
•
An ever-increasing host of writers struggle
along the main road of popular fiction to the
heights where Corelli, Caine and Nat Gould
are terribly at ease with their gigantic circu-
lations. On a quiet side track a smaller
mowd is travelling with the hope, of attain-
ing even higher heights than the fiction-
mongers. These are the compilers of educa-
tional books. It is very likely that the
works of that omniscient mathematician,
Todhunter, have sold to a larger extent than
the novels of Miss Braddon. Todhunter,
however, like Miss Braddon, has now been
superseded. But Lennie’s English Grammar
is still going strong, and over 1,224,000 copies
have been sold ; while Butters’ Spelling Book
has sold to the tune of 2,540,000 copies, and
Pitman’s Phonographic Teacher 3,200,000
copies ! Brewer’s Guide to Scientific .Know-
ledge is in the 47th edition, Grammaire de
Grammaires the 58th edition and Cornwall’s
Geography the 70th edition ! Even Cole’s
Funny Picture Book has a circulation of over
300,000, and that in Australia alone. But
then fiction looks so easy, and tripe sells fast
enough for anyone.
Meredith
J. A. Hamerton’s George Meredith in
Anecdote and Criticism (Grant Richards) is
an interesting compilation, similar in char-
acter to his Stevensoniana, but burdened
with less useless lumber. The principal
value of the book is in its array of critical
opinions upon Meredith’s work beginning
with the review of his Poems of 1851 by W. M:
Rossetti, who is still living. That volume
and the early novels received careful and
appreciative treatment from English re-
viewers long before Meredith was discovered
in America. An /American critic, W. C.
Brownell, is freely quoted from, and one of
the best of recent criticisms is that of M.
Legouis in Revue Germanique. Quotations
are given from Prof. McCallum’s lecture on
iiblished in Sydney in 1892, which
n says, “ takes no mean place
he mass of criticism which INlere-
rks have called forth.” After read-
his criticism, it is evident that no
r ork was done for Meredith t aii
series of articles by v» • ' %
One is also struck by the neglect
at, surely a most astonishing piece
lative work, and llhoda Fleming, a
and well-constructed tragedy, not
itched'in modern literature,
ook is enlivened by some parodies
iierous illustrations. It does not
nuch new light on the early
eredith ; but it gives some particu-
ls work as a journalist, many glimpses
tter part of his life, and his opinions
rs in general. Hamerton has len-
3od seryice to all Meredithians m
g this material together,
ith’s letters are being prepared for
ion by his son. It was expected that
lis intimate friends, Edward Olodd,
rite a biography ; but Meredith was
a formal “Life,” and Clodd has
is reminiscences in the July Fort-
An article in the August number
interesting details of Meredith s
reader to Chapman and Hall.
'
ice Leblanc’s clever gentleman-burg-
kie Lupin, is drawn with a lighter
han Hornung’s Raffles, and is more
r 4 Lupin was introduced to English
last year in The Seven of Hearts. At
I of that story the great English
e, Holmlock Shears, arrived on the
too late to do more than exhibit his
ous powers and prophesy that he and
vould meet to some purpose later on.
leeting is described in Arsene Lupin
Holmlock Shears (Dymock). Full
is done to the incomparable English-
es though Nature had amused herself by
the two most extraordinary types of
e that fiction had invented, Poe s Dupin
soriau’s Lecoq, in order to build up one
)wn fashion, more extraordinary yet and
ireal.
.even more unreal, is quicker-witted,
and more agile. An old acquaintance
as “the unspeakable Wilson,” friend
mfidant of Holmlock, and all the
;k Holmes’ tricks are happily tra-
The translation is by Alex, de
, who displaced Sutro as translator of
•linck.
Concerning Ballades
Concerning ballades, O most delectable
damsel, you have inquired of me several
things : and, firstly, why they are (some-
times) spelt with an e. That is done to dis-
tinguish them from the other ballads, which
are not ballades. Now a ballad the other
kind—is, more or less, any old yarn in verse,
with a lilt to it (in origins, a dance-song);
such as “John Gilpin,” “The Ancient
Mariner,” “Sir Patrick Spens,” “Snowy
River,” or even that concoction of mine own
you are good enough to admire at whiles,
“ When We Blew Into Christchurch Town
the Night Befo.re the Cup.”
But the ballade that is a ballade is a horse
of another color ; or, rather, if the ballad is
a steed, then the ballade is an artificial
beastie, a quaint little gazeeka with three
legs and a tail. (If you run short of rimes,
you can make it a Manx ballade, and dis-
pense with the tail.)
In essentials, it is a poem of three similar
stanzas, each ending with the same final line
.—-the “refrain.” There seem to be two
main classes, the “ strict ” and the free
ballade. In the “ strict ” form, the stanza is
of either eight or ten lines (and Marot and
the purists require that the former should
be written in lines of eight syllables, and the
latter in lines of 10). in the former
there are three rimes, arranged thus :
ab a bbc bc. The chief charm of the
arrangement is the way the rime repeats
in the middle, giving the verse a ca-
dence of its own. In Villon s Testaments,
and Andrew Lang’s “Helen of Troy,”
you may remember there was the same
haunting repetition in the middle of every
verse. In the ten-lined stanza, there are
four rimes, similarly linked. But from the
poetaster’s point of view, the most im-
portant matter is that all three stanzas must
have the same set of rime-sounds, and, as in
any other English verse, the same riming
syllable must not be repeated. So don’t set
out a-ballading with a line that in
“ babe ”dr “ Invercargill ” —or you will find
yourself running dry of rimes before you re
half-way through.
vl/
The “envoy” is an extra end-half of a
stanza, generally addressed, by ancient con-
Intion, to a prince or princess. You, O
osfc delightful lady, would be an excellent
idicatee for a ballade. May I have the
•esumption .
The “free” ballade is one that breaks
ie or more of the rules I have referred o.
s stanzas may be more or less than three,
id may be of any number of lines, m
ason. If you are very hard pressed, you
ay repeat a riming syllable you ve used
ready—so long as it’s not in the same
srse. (They say you not, but
Iraucer rimes “ sothfastnesse, ~ * e
isse,” “ besynesse,” “ buxunmesse, and
wilderhesse,” all in one ballade, ie
alade de Bon Conseyl ” ; and
by,” “by-and-by,” “thereby,” “hereby
id “buy,” all in the same ballade ; and
hat’s good enough for bwm-
iirue is good enough for me. M hat do you
link ?) Or you may even have a fresh set
; rime-sounds for every stanza, so that the
itching dominance of the refrain be pre-
srved, and the echo that comes from the
ipetition of the last rime-sound after a
•oss-rimed quatrain.
Then there are various sports of the parent
;em: the double ballade, which is six
;anzas long, and not safe to attempt unless
ou have a riming dictionary under your
lbow ; the ballade a double refrain, with an
xtra refrain in the middle of the stanza. (I
ryself have developed a variant wherein the
erse has, all the deliberative charm that
omes from using the metre of -La us
Generis” and Fitzgerald’s “Omar Khay-
am, ” combined with the attractions of lilt
nd repetition that belong especially to the
lallade. But let no one else attempt it;
norally, it is my .copyright.) There is also
he Chant Royal, a bull-frog of a ballade, m
ive stanzas and an envoy, 60 lines in all,
md all on five rime-sounds ! Every minor
ioet, once in his life, writes a Chant Royal.
' should like to quote here my own Chant
ioyal, and I know, O sister of morning
lunshine, that you would be polite enough to
read it.; but space hardly permits.
The ballade was an invention of Old
France, and the trouveres and troubadours
wrote it with great gusto. One poet, whose
name 1 suppress, is said to have written over
5000 ballades. Chaucer wrote some, but the
ballade was never naturalised in English till
tjie ’seventies of the nineteenth century :
since when it has bloomed without ceasing.
The greatest ballade is one written in
French by M. Francois Villon, M.A.,
“ prince of all ballad-makers.” His irench
is “middle,” and a little bit difficult, per-
haps, especially as you wisely decided, O
most dainty one, that tennis was more to be
sought after than matriculation. It is for-
tunate, therefore, that there is an English
translation, ‘ ‘ a planet equal to the sun that
cast it,” writ by D. G. Rossetti.
\!/
After all, you suggest, is the ballade
worth while ? Most assuredly it is, O causer
of sweet perturbation. I am not concerned
to defend fixed verse-forms in general at
this time o’ day, when the sonnet has been
naturalised in English for over three hundred
years. Some art, some artists, are better
suited the more difficult the medium.
Oil,i, Voeuvre sort plus belle
D'une forme du travail
Rebelle,
Vers, marbre, onyx, oiip.il.
Looked on merely as an alternative to the
sonnet, some merits of the ballade will be-
come manifest.. By to-day it is as hard to
write a new sonnet as to compose a new
minuet : and a sonnet often acts like a re-
frigerator on any thought entrusted to its
keeping. The ballade is not yet (and may it
never be !) practically limited to one metre :
whereas it takes a brave man nowadays to
write a quatuorzain or a sonnet in alexand-
rines, and even then the rhythm must still be
iambic. The ballade’s length is more
elastic than the sonnet’s ; only a fourteen-
line idea can be perfectly at home in
fourteen lines. The ballade lias all the
sonnet’s symmetry, and more. It will run,
skip, march or go sorrowfully, while the
“ moment’s monument,” sixty-nine times
out of seventy, can only plod. _ And
the four or five lines of the envoy afford a
I reasonable space for that summing-up of
the whole matter which should be, but
generally is not, contained in the sonnet’s
final line.
And the true pronunciation of the word
“ballade”? Nay, that I cannot tell, save
that the stress is on the second syllable. If
you like, you may follow the analogy of
“serenade, and “parade. an
American writer who rimes it with “sad
and “ glad.” Or at the risk of being called
affected, you may give the vowels their
proper French quality. Please yourself,
. even as you do in most things.
M.L.
A. MACPHERSON.


a
Substantially-Made Cash Box, with secure Lock and
two flat Keys. The top half opens right back on the
table, and is correct size for Hank Kbt.es. Japanned
Black.. Size 10 x 0 x 3Jin. 5/9.
Cas h Box, size 10Ji„. x- sJin.-x Sttin. deep. Improved Lock with
two-fiat Keys, loose tray with trough-shaped divisions
Japanned Bronze Green and Gold, 6/-
For all
Kinds of
Stationery
try a course of
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
p
o
5
T
A
G
E
E
X
T
R
A
FOOLSCAP FOLIO
LARGE POST QUARTO
POST CARD
/fIUujCE- post octavo Jf Targe posToctavo
/a
HtsQUARE
N36EijVELOfE.sJtg SQUARE
Sieve Bottom Stationery Case, Dark Oak to Quarto size paper, 7/-
p
o
5
T
A
G
E
E
X
T
R
A
Stationery Rack, size 12i». x4jin. x 7in. hijsli. Holds lar-’-e
Post Bvo Paper, Envelopes and Pusi-eaids, 2/9.
Useful Stationery Case, with Inkstand and Fen Tray
polished Dark Green, with Niykelplat ed Shield '
lOJin. x 6in. x t > : v. hij-h, 3/-
Stationery Rack,
Hollow in
, Dark Oak Color with Ebonised Pen
front, 9in. x 4£in. jx Gin. 1/2.
UP
Class Pen’Tray, 'Sin. Ion*;-, 4id.
li’*-S3tar,cl, Walnut and Black color, x 6in.'
Best Quality Walnut and Black Inkstand, with bright Brass Handle
-i ln - botiles, with improved screw neck, 10/-
Best Quality
fitted u
4-Hollow Inkstand, size. 6Ji». x Ciin.
ith Gut Crystal Glass Bottle, 2/3. “ ’
mimi
JPW®
ins
j! j
"-■-v !
Ul
Piaisad Class Inkstant!, with Pen Tray and Rack in front, 1/9
IliSilii
MON DAY
31
Japanned Loose Card Date Cases, 4Ajn x
3jin., 1/- ; s£in. x 4in., 1/7 ; Oiin. x hi',,'
2/- ; 9in. x 6|i»., 3/3 ; 11 Jin. x B£in., 5/-
We offer an
immense
variety of
plain, fancy
and commer-
cial Station-
ery,, including
a tig assort-
ment of Foun-
tain Pens,
Write for
Price List,
posted free on
request. It
will prove a
Saver of Sovs.
II 'll
in, ::i
:i !» 1
Japanned Post and Delivery Cages— 2 Divisions, size
7in. x 4Jiii., 1/3 ; 3 Divisions, Join, x 4in., 1/9.’
M
l
Class Pen Tray,.Ribbed Pattern, Jbiii. lon ff , 7d. each.
p
o
5
T
A
G
E
E
X
T
R
A
FOOLS CAP TouT'
L A. R & B p 0 S T n
cR < O ■ajPOSTC
LAROE POST BVo
?6 ENVELOP
small Poqt av
Ho 7 ENVELOPES
0F F 1 c 1 a ITeTTyTIopTS
SQUABe Is
8
MONDAY
AUGU ST
Foolscap Oak Stationery Case, with Revolving- Date Indicator Pen
Hollow and Two Ink Bottles. Size, 15*1,7. x Sfin. 16/6
p
o
5
T
A
G
E
E
X
T
R
A
Consult cur
Illustrated
Fast icn. Port-
folio for all j
that is r.ew i
in the world
of Dress. Ihe
illustrations
faithfully pre-
sent the pre-
vailing mcdes.
Write for a
copy, posted
free cn appli-
cation.
Hanging Letter Rack, size Tin. x
4ji»., 2 pockets, 1/2 ; size, 9£in. x
.>■ 5-jin., 3 puekets, 2/3.
£.
Sieve Bottom Stationery Case, Paik Oak color, size
\ ' 11 Ai»i. x 5i.n,,. 4,9.
ANTHONY
& SONS,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Almost
any safety razor
is SAFE, but there’s
only one that is
ALWAYS SHARP-the,
M f z et o v r
Its self-contained • .automatic selft-stropping arrangement enables
even a novice to produce that perfect, keen edge so essential to
quick, easy, pleasant shaving. You also avoid the constant buying
of neyv blades, required by all non-stroppinc
razors, and thus the Auto Strop Safety Razor
pays for itself in a year.
The Standard Outfit
consists of quadruple
silver*p!ated, self-strop-
ping razor ; one . dozen
tested laneet-steelblades f
one horaehide
strop; in leather
caso 2 in, by “3/
in, NET
Sold by all leading dealers.
Descriptive Booklet free on request to the
iN Agent* for Australia:
Lamson Store Service Co., Ltd.
The Rialto,. Collin*, St .
Melbourne, and
222 Clarence Street,
Sidney
7^
n
XT
QopNak
/Uuo'Strop Safely Razor Go. Ltd
61 New Oxford St., London, England
Also at Paris. New York
and Montreal (Canada)
will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
Hypnotism,
Mesmerism,
and
Clairvoyance
An Illustrated
Guide fjr the Anateur,
describing the various
methods adopted by
professors both before
and after Mesmer, and
showing: how the mystic
power may be developed.
1/-, Post Free 1/2.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cattle-Causes,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1 /-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/C. Dr.
Foote's I‘lain llomkOvcj.o,
P/EDIa, latest edition, 124 s
pajreg, 4'lo colored plates
and eii'rravinsrs, 7/C, Da.
Faulkner’s Original Hook
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Kxi&ained, 1/3. New
TriVis with Cards, 1/-.
11ow ! - to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer. 1 /-,
1&-AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
Diminishing:
Cards.
Ordinary
1* lay i n g-
Cards, which
areapparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoee t lier.
Co in pi e t e,
with full in-
struct ions;
anyone can
work them.
219,
posted 3 /-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) The Lightning’
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6ci. each;
p isreii Sd. Above 3 Tricks, post tree anywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
catalmues 201 b Bourke st., Melbourne
NO’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
/ All Functional Derangements-of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomaph, Or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
t Invaluable to Travellers,. Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates, v
Enq s Fiii'lT SALT’ assists the Functions of the Liverf'P.owe/.s. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has bech taken in the ear.iest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventoa a seriohs illness.
CAUTION.— Exaviine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION.
Prepared only by J C. UNO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
£.£., Enf., by J. C. LHO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Comer of Queen and Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICGS, Local Director.
Jit
m.
4< New Rival” Black Powder
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
THE RED
BRAND
TRADE MARK REG. IN U. S. PAT. OFF.
Shoot Strong and Evenly—Are Suro Fire—Will Stand Reloading
THEY ALWAYS GET THE GAME. FOR SALE EVERYWHERE.
BY APPOINTMENT TO ||f§§| HIS MAJESTY THE KIND.
BOVRIL
Tempts you to Eat and Feeds you.
Whether at home, at the oflloe, in the restaurant, or in th©
Jheatre, a cup of Bovrll is easily and quickly procured.
ALWAYS INSIST UPON BOVRIL, AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
The Universal Remedy fop -Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA
Jitai
01
For the NERVES and BLOOD
NOTHING EQUALS
TONIC
Mr. TOM PAYNE, one of the leading comedians of the
Cinderella Opera Co., Sydney, is high in his praise of this great
blood and nerve restorer, and writes of it as follows :
Cinderella Opera Co.,
Criterion Theatre, 10/9/’O9.
Clements Tonic Ltd.,
“Since residing In Australia 1 have experienced great lassitude, nervousness and
lack of energy, due, I am sure, to your climate, new to me. In my profession nerve
strength and health are necessary to periorm arduous comic parts. The strain is
always on the nerves to nightly satisfy the public. Finding myself run down and
far from welt, 1 was advised to take your Clements Tonic (the recognised Australian
standard remedy for weak nerves), with the result that I now have splendid health,
a pleasure to enjoy. The Invigorating, nerve-strengthening properties of your tor.lc
are undoubtedly beyond question."
Witness—C. Lovely, JP. (Signed) TOM PAYNE.
Professional people should keep Clements Tonic always AVlien travelling
or following their duties, especially in the hot summer months, when
the heat is oppressive and the nervous system prostrated; The effect of
its use will he to create good" nerves and appetite, strengthen the system
and enrich the blood, giving immediate benefit. All chemists and store-
keepers sell it. 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per bottle. Keep it always in the house.
Manufactured
solely
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
BALMAIN.
[i


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. That's
what every one does who uses
this splendid?
preparation
for the hair.
If you don’t
want to
praise it, then
you must not
use it. You see,
you will be so pleased
with it that you will
just have to tell your
* friends all about it.
9
m
I m
mm
Ollier’s
Mair Vigor
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowoll, Mass., U S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded withe ut qu. stion
if i.ot perfectly Batisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles ,
warranted five to ten year?, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODE I S
£3 old to £9
Coaster Hobs, best mak* s of Tyres, Crabbo
Inverted Lever Rim 1 rakes, triable gears
and all Jates* improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in tho world. We guarantee safe delivers.
ACTIVE AGENTS
Large profits fasily made!
write at once, using aufflcient postage, for free art catalogues
and our *i,ec>al ojfer on sample machine. ®
MEAD CYCLE CCa 9 Dept. 280 Liverpool*
TTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
Jackie Lees
5 Gould Street, Chippen-
dale, Sydney, N.S.W.,
had suffered with his
chest and lungs from
birth, and nothing did
him any good until his
mother gave him SCOTT’S
Emulsion. “He is now
completely cured,’’writes
Mrs. E. Lees (January
igo3), “ and is a fine
healthy boy, without
any signs of delicacy
whatever.”
The Let that letters of this kind
are constantly arriving proves that
SCOTT’S E mulsion continues to
be what it has always been—“ the
emulsion which cures.” The reason
why SCOTT’S Emulsion cures is
not far to seek ; it is in the Emul-
sion itself—purest ingredients, per-
fectly and palatably combined by
the unique SCOTT pro. ess.
Of all chemists and dealers in meti'circs.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CURE!
7?
DID YOU EVER STOP TO THINK
i f, ever considered what trouble may arise from a
Cougli or Cold ? Beware of the “Hacking Cough,”
ie S lght Cold,” the “frivial Hoarseness”—these are Natures
\\armngs that something is amiss with your respiratory system—
You require a soothing and healing remedy.
Bonnington’s Irish P/loss.
* s an ol< l friend and a tried medicine for Colds.
■. . There is no preparation which will eradicate a troublesome Cough so
qmcldy and effectively Insist upon having the genuine article-you wid
get this if you say distinctly y
I WANT “ BONNINGTON'S”
IN USE 45 YEARS.
EVERY BOTTLE
CONTAINS A CURE!
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“O'UR JACK” Brand. Fulfils, the requirements of the “ I'll UK FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Filt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
,nt BEST NATURAL APEhItN T WAitK.
Janos
For 0901 and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyad* Ja nos h as invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water •
fAimniff J?,^ nyadi J anos,” the signature or the Proprietor,
\JxLU 1 IUJ/j, ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centro Part
of the Label.
REALS;
LIQUEUR
a 0.0; 1
N liqueur Whi^
>. ;
* U|Mlli Ontilliry l"
"nwuTtut
oisnutßV
OuKev SCOTLANO
XUM&
iJttE OLD SCOTCH
1!
4
GOOD
FOR TESTING 1
Every drop is bottled by our-
selves, thus—and thus only can
we guarantee its quality, age and
flavour.
The entire production of our
Century-old distillery is devoted
to Old Orkney.
The pure Spring water from the
heather-clad hillsofOrkneygives
to 0.0. its great superiority
We always hold a 10 years’supply
in our own bonded warehouses.
Thus, wherever you buy it, 0.0.
is always the same.
Wrile for beautiful booklet en-
titled Farthest, North," and
nearest 0.0. Agent, sent post
fr*e from
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C. j
Proprietors of
Stromness Distillery,
Orkney. Scotland.
<. Old
ORKNEY
is (lie Name of our FREE BOOK
which tells
thin women
how they
may in-
ctease their
weight and
develop a l
i m m ature
bust. It
tells ho w
thin people
are de-
veloped to
normal.
[3
DR. FALLIERE’S
FLESH=FOOD
is a pure, medicated, scientific bust
developer and flesh builder. Harmless
and efficacious. In average cases
weight can be increased five pounds a
week, and inches are rapidly added to
your measurements. Send, 2d. stamp
for free trial sample and free book, or
call if convenient, Hours, 9 a.m. toSp.m.
FALUERI “FLESH-FOGD” CO.
Dapt. 5,
Ll.ximx Co CRT,
Ca.xtlkreaqh St.,
SYDNEY,
WOOD-MILNE
SBOESHINES
' ,* ‘ ;
Black and Brown
Mud &jzs not stick, rain d)2s
not panetrate, fos dor> not
dim the Shoes that shin’ vith
WOOD - MILNE SHOSSmm
Try one tin and test it
for yourself.
Of all bootmen.
2995
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Mirror of the Sea.
What see you, lover, gazing in the mirror
The green-deep mirror of the Sea ? The glint
Of colored treasure on the wave-ridged floor,
Pale stars and coral-pieces. . . . Sanded light
Stiearning across the dark of the abyss,
And gteen shapes set in violet shadowing.
Sea-maids, their soft forms blurred by the surface-
ripple,
Sea-maids singing,
With a low echo tolling from the deep
In shadowy-sounding pulse, like bells in the dusk
Across a clouded valley Words and runes
And now a hollow song from ocean-throats,
O lover, lover
Gaze on the mirror of love. ... 0 deep
In the dream of lies must this lover sleep /
False, as the moving sea has miles,
I his maid you love for her silken wiles :
Her faith, pledged ever beyond the grave,
Is swift to die as the breaking wave —•
Held—as ripples across this glass
That follow the shoal ivlien the fishes pass,
Lost—as purple and silver gleams
When shoals are vanished like stolen dreams;
Count her loves as the golden sands
Poured and scattered between the hands,
Or ravel the tangle of weeds that hide
In the darkest rock of the deepest tide—
Sooner the task than seek the key
Of her love, the love of the cruel sea.
Her hate, far deeper than seas may be !
Like rocks that wreck arc her sweet-lipped lies.
And tides of the sea are the deeps of her eyes —
Drawn, when you ffincy a dearest boon,
By the sway of a dead and a distant moon /
O lover, lover.
Waken and dread, as the waves that cover
The preyed-on hearts of the gallant ships.
The warm caress of her poisoned lips,
Whose heart, a realm as this world of sand,
A shifting shallow, you may not band.
Nor weigh, nor conquer, nor understand !. . .
Low, in a hollow chord from ocean-throats
The song dies down The moving vision fades,
And over all the pictured greennesses
Ihe tide is blowing sea-dust. . . . Graze no more,
O lover, gaze no more upon the mirror,
The green-deep Mirror of the Sea.
VICTORIA.
HUGH MOKAY.
No Account.
What matters most when all is said
And every bead is told,
And day is nigh its sunset
And we are grave and old ?
Not this, perchance, the.cherished deed,
The fine imperial thing
That filled our blood with triumph
Whew youth was crowned a king ;
Not this, perchance,, the starlike dream
Long-quenched, and dimmed, and gone,
That won us, dawn and midnight,
To follow where it shone.
For o’er these things, as hill o’er plain,
As mountain over mount,
May tower the merest trifle,
The thing of no account.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Castles in Spain.
_ .
Last night my ship went sailing
Towards the land of'Spain,
And youth-times aTry castles
Were builded up again :
The old familiar faces
Slipped by me in my dream
Of olden girls with golden curls.
And starry eyes a-gleam.
My dream-ship rising, dipping,
Sailed onward to the East.
And ev’ry cloud had vanished,
And ev’ry storm had ceased ;
And midst the dawnlight veiling
Sweet islands coralline,
The sea-waves rang as comrades sang
Gay songs of Love and wine.
Old songs of Love and Pleasure,
When those we loved were true,
!>' fore the years brought sorrow,
And mixed our wine with rue ;
L.fe’s morning chansons blending
In spring-time harmony,
While rose-lights shone our sails upon,
Out on the summer sea.
Then knew we not a trouble,
Frank pagans all, indeed,
“Eat, (bank, we die to-morrow,”
Our Solomonic creed ;
With wit and love and laughter
r The swift days spun away,
To-morrow pawned before it dawned,
For pleasure of to-day.
And then my ship wefit sailing
Fast some enchanted isle.
Where mist clad girls were gl ncing
With Circean eyes a-smiie,
I stretched vain hands to hold them,
They reached vain arms to me.
For mortal hold may not enfold
Those dream loves fair and free.
Last night my soul went sailing
Towards the land of Spain.
To hear old comrades singing
And kiss red lips again ;
I saw my youth-built castles
In rose hues rise and gleam,
Biit when the day crept up my way,
They vanished with my dream.
VICTORIA.
ALBERT J. WOOD.


524 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING'S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Supper Parties can be
engaged for four to 30 persons. Banqueting Room for
250. Seating accommodation for 700 guests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 5.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can be purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12,2/6.
A Feature of “THE BURLINGTON” is the
FISH AND OYSTER CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables- are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
/' ■
Ladies a,nd Gentlemen's Retiring Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Bail
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. .Write for Catalogue.
Tells hou- to open and operate Roller Rinks —RiJhartlson Ball-Bearing'
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Jiritain and Ireland—Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
f
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
' • r. \ y ■
CORK TIPS.
The Watch of
Matchless Merit
THE WATCHWORD IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy”—accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts —accuracy in assembl-
ing them—and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepers in the world.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/'
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin” Office
gsgp?
m
i,
;
» 'v, , v . ' ' •
AtHE PATHWAY TO
ROOFING PERFECTION
m
r
• im
#
/*
fter-yi
g. P
■ 5 rs
I 1
m
V
W:-U
i* >
, &»«£*
y, **
H - v
•; v ;, ; «
r *»- -, •
*
**s
4p
/ r
F
i
<i....
JUD
cm
22
m&iSk
• <
a®
smirMM.
MiSWrii!
~ "'1 :•'
m
mm
'±I£JZ


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1547.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7 , 1909.
Prick Gd.
FURIOUS DRIVING,
N.S.W. (to driver): "I say, that was 92,225,837 we just passed, Isn't the pace dangerous?”
Driver Wade: "Not a bit."
N.S.W.: “But where do we pull up for a rest?”
Driver (with a glare of madness in his eye): “Well never pull up. We’ll never rest.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North.
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 V
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Bp sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tint Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 Ivor Is, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Thk Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at h/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, Jf r . C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, A4l Hastings Street; Borman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. —1 sserlisA., Seattle, Washington; international
Neivs Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6fin. x lkin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1909.
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1909.
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 9.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Norman Lindsay and
other leading representative artists, will be the
finest Black and White work obtainable in Austra-
lia, and will reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence o-F
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
■For.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
AUSTRALIAN DEFENCE, AND THE
HOSTILE CRY OF PODSNAP.
That this Defence Bill contains compulsory military
training' and service (as its chief clause) is plainly stated.
The people generally do not understand that this is so,
and they should have the chance to preserve their British
birthright of liberty of conscience and freedom of
choice. . . ■ Our Empire has alivays had voluntary
service in the army and navy; even in the days
of the Press Gang it was considered necessary to give
the “ shilling.” But British justice rebelled against the
Press Gang, and that has gone. Shall we go back to the
barbarisms of a bygone day, and permit the introduction
of conscription ? It is said that this Defence Bill only
contains a “ very mild form of conscription.” A mild
form of smallpox is still smallpox, and no one desires to
contract the disease. A mild form of conscidption may
develop more serious conditions. Is it any proof of
patriotism to be compelled to serve in the army or navy?
A more cruel bondage than the conscription nowin force
on the Continent does not exist. The country suffers,
and the, people are in the grip of militarism and the taxa-
tion is a burden.
This subject should have the serious attention of every
adult in Australia. If the yoke is once slipped over the
neck of this people, then their trouble will begin ; it will
be a real and present one, and not a distant and
ima inary foe. To attempt to make Australians a mili-
tary people is in itself a blunder. Our men are needed to
be trained to develop this great country. If their time
and energy and taste are moulded for the development of
the military spirit, where are we to look for our future
useful citizens? If this proposed army could protect
Australia, it might be some comfort to those who live in
dread of invasion ; but even this is not practicable, as any-
one who has travelled our huge territory, with its
enormous coastline, could testify. An army of any such
numbers as Australia could furnish is practically useless.
If England needs money or men, Australia will give her
share ; she will never agree to compulsion.
May I suggest that a digest of the Bill might be pub-
lished by the papers, drawing attention to the main
clauses, also its costand its penalties? This would give
the people a chance to understand the quesiion, especi-
ally parents, employers of labor, and young men.
We have had many “ war scares.” Russia, Japan, and
even America have been held over us as possible invaders.
Now it is Germany. It does seem highly improbable that
Germany should make war with the British Empire when
her very existence depends upon her commerce with the
British Empire. Already she is feeling the immense strain
of her vast armaments ; her population, very many of
them emigrate to England, America and Australia, and
so become our fellow citizens, and while the British Em-
pire is true to her God and the right, as she has been in
the past, so long will she be protected and upheld as the
leading nation. — Letter signed “Sara S. Nolan” in
Sydney Telf.graph.
The above is quoted as a text because, among a
multitude of anti-defence letters which have
appeared in the Tory press, it stands out con-
spicuously as the one in which the whole gospel of
Podsnap is embodied. To all appearance the
tribe of Podsnap really believes the farrago of
childish nonsense contained in writings like the
above, and regards such things as serious reason
why Australia should wholly neglect its defences
and await its fate, whatever that may be, like a
sheep at the door of a slaughter-house.
At the present day, compulsory military 7 service
is the law in Cape Colony, Natal, Canada, the
Channel Islands, and other parts of the British
Empire. The Cape, which makes every man
between 18 and 50 liable even for foreign service,
carries the compulsory system much further than
most countries do. The fact that compulsory
service is so widely recognised among the British
races seems wholly unknown to the tribe of Saha
Podsnap. Egypt, under British rule, has conscrip-
tion. In England, compulsory service for local
defence purposes has been the law from the earliest
Saxon times until to-day. The county militia even
now is a purely conscription force provided as
a safeguard in case of invasion, but to avoid the
term “ conscription,” the thing—exactly the same
old thing—is called “ballot.” The county militia
has been allowed to fall into decay, but no British
statesman has had the courage to repeal the com-
pulsory service law 7. The European countries where
conscription laws still linger are Britain, Holland,
Belgium, Sweden, Portugal and Spain. Every-
where else the idea has been abandoned, though
the anti-defence party, being many years behind
with its information, hasn’t yet heard of the fact,
and seems unlikely ever to hear of it. It has a
habit of mixing up conscription and universal
military training, which is slovenly and inexact to
the last degree and shows a down-at-heels mind.
Until the end of the Napoleonic wars the
British army and navy were, in a very large
degree, compulsory service forces. The British
compulsory service laws were active then, not
passive as at present. The army was often re-
cruited by “ballot,” for even then there was the
pretence of the primitive Podsnap that “con-
scription” was a shuddersome thing and an
un-English innovation. And the early PoDSNAPS
of the land said in those far-back days that
Britons never would be slaves ; so, to avoid a
naval conscription, they recruited the sea-forces
by kidnapping. Under the conscription system
the man who was pressed into his country’s
service had due notice, and went away with the
full knowledge of his friends. By the cruel, dis-
orderly press-gang methods he simply disappeared,
and his wife and children might eat their hearts
out for years without knowing what had become
of him. In many cases he is missing and unac-
counted for to this day. Still, Britain was able
to boast that it didn’t have naval conscription.
Since Napoleon’s time John Boll’s navy hasn’t
fought a single battle against an enemy of im-
portance, and in the only naval battle which it
fought against an enemy of moderate unimport-
ance, the fleets of two other Great Powers—
Russia and France—helped it, and all the
three fleets had to do was to batter to pieces
an ill-managed Turkish squadron. Because the
British fleet has had the consistent good luck to
keep out of any serious action, it has been possible
to hang up the question of an adequate naval
reserve, or even an adequate peace establishment.
A great naval war will probably bring up the old
alternatives of conscription or kidnapping ; but
just now the pacific ostrich buries his cranium in
the sand and says he never heard of such things.
■* * * *
Britain hasn’t done anything in the way of
single-handed military action against a foe of its
own tonnage since it Suspended—-it never
abolished —its compulsory military service laws.
The glamor of the victories which its o:d
semi-conscript forces gained for it on land
and sea still sticks to it, however, and the
names of Wellington and Nelson help to scare
away enemies. But Britain has fought many
small nigger wars, largely with nigger troops ; and
in the ’so’s of last century it did venture, with
three other nations to help it, to pit its voluntary
army against the resources of an ill-managed
white nation. The result was utterly shameful.
Britain’s Crimean force did wonders while it
lasted ; but the veterans steadily diminished in
numbers, there were no real reserves, and that
great burst of jiatriotism which is supposed
to supply abundant soldiers in time of need didn’t
burst worth a cent. It never has burst worth a
cent. The recruits who came forward were insuffi-
cient, costlj 7 , raw and untrained, and they were
mostly weedy and ill-nourished to boot. They
died off in a way that broke Raglan’s heart, and
he implored the British Government to send
him no more of them. The French cut
short the siege of Sebastopol and the war
by hurling thousands of men'against the Malakotx
fort and hacking their way through the Russian
defences. The British attack on the Redan failed
utterly for want of men, and, to all appearance, if
it had not been for its allies, the British voluntary
army might be sitting outside Sebastopol to this
day. The breakdown was so lamentable that,
towards the end of the war, the hiring of German
mercenaries to fill the place of the missing
Englishmen was under serious consideration.
• * « *
After that the British voluntary army never
risked itself against a white enemy for very many
years—not in fact until the recent Boer troubles.
The Boers looked an easy proposition. The whole
Dutch population of the two republics would only
have made a second-rate English city. And
Britain had allies ; in proportion to their popula-
tion some of the Empire’s dependencies supplied
more troops than the Mother Country did. But
it was the old Crimean trouble over again, i'he
British people, who are supposed to rally volun-
tarily and in vast numbers to their country’s aid
in time of need, didn’t rally to any great extent,
and the cry for recruits started almost as soon as
the war itself. Of those who did rally an enor-
mous proportion were physically useless specimens
gathered from the London slums. The ones who
weren’t physically useless were mostly useless
through lack of training. The whole outfit repre-
sented about the poorest intelligence and the
most restricted chest measurement in the British
nation, and its inefficiency was shown by the
result. The war dragged on for nearly three
years, and cost something like £250,000,000, and
after all this cash and weariness it was so far from
being ended that the last big episode of the
struggle was the capture of a famous British
general and most of his force by the Boers.
About this time Britain found itself fixing a
thoughtful eye on four possibilities. It might
call in its black and brown troops, and thereby
convey to its subject nigger the disastrous im-
pression that the white man had failed and that
the colored man was the real prop of the Empire.
It might adopt compulsory military service in the
United Kingdom, raise and drill a gigantic army,
and then man down its enemies with twenty-fold
numbers ; and this idea was seriously proposed in
Parliament. It might plod along on the old lines
for another three years, and spend another
£250,000,000 ; but the country was weary of it all,
and it was dangerous to call the world’s attention
in such a fashion to the amazing military weak-
ness of an alleged great Power. Or it might make
the best possible terms with the enemy, and this
was the method finally adopted. The Bo ers re-
ceived some millions in cash to repair tlieir|losses,
and were promised complete self-government, pro-
vided they made a nominal surrender. So there
was a change of flag ; Botha the Boer rules
instead of Kruger the Boer ; the Dutch language
remains, and so do the Dutch institutions;
the English people are being steadily shunted
out of all Government offices; and the Boer
majority makes laws for the British settlers just
as of old. And because the Transvaal and the
Orange Free State are now British they have been
able to federate with the old British colonies, and
the union will place a Dutch majority on top all
over British South Africa. It looks much more
like the annexation of the old British colonies by
the Dutch than the other way about. But these
terms were the best that the British voluntary
army could extract. It had found its level again,
and it was a worse level than even in the old
Crimean days.
* * * *
Yet the peace establishment of the British
army isn’t so very small, nor is it cheap.
The self-complac-
ent PODS N A P
family finds satis-
faction in three
solid convictions,
all of which ap-
pear in the letter
quoted above : (1)
That owing to
“ conscription ”
the nations of
continental Eur-
ope suffer great
loss through the
withdrawal of
huge bodies of
men from pro-
ductive employ-
ment ; (2) that
their bloated ar-
maments are hide-
ously costly; and
(3) that in conse-
quence the people
are ground down
by a burden of
taxation such as
no free British
subject would
tolerate. None of these comforting theories
can stand close inspection. As a matter of fact,
Britain is the most heavily-taxed country in
Europe. The revenues per head of France and
Belgium look larger (France, 795. Bd. ; Belgium,
735. 5d.; and Britain, 70s. 3d. per inhabitant per
annum), but the excess isn’t owing to taxation ; it
arises from the fact that Belgium includes in its
revenue the returns from State railways, a.nd
France the proceeds of the State manufacture of
tobacco, explosives, etc. ; and these things are not
taxes. And when the imposts contained in
Asquith’s new Budget come into force, the taxes
which the Englishman pays will be larger than
the taxes and railway fares which the Belgian,
pays, and far larger than the Frenchman’s taxes
and tobacco bill combined. One reason why such
alarming burdens are heaped on the British
citizen is that his military and naval expenditure
per inhabitant is the greatest in the world. It is
almost exactly equal in the gross to that of Ger-
many— some years it is a trifle higher—but
£60,000,0000f expend) tureisone thing when divided
among over 60,000,000 Germans, and quite another
thing when divided among a little over 40,000,000
Britons. In the German case, it is £1 per head
per year ; in the British instance, it is about 30s.
The British voluntary soldier, at one end of the
European scale, costs about £lOO per annum ; the
Swiss compulsorily'-trained citizen, at the other
end, costs about £B. And even the comfortable
theory that the alleged “conscript” armies of
Continental Europe are ruinous to their countries,
owing to the vast numbers of people they take
away from profitable and productive employment,
is a fraud when closely inspected. Germany,
which is supposed to be a dreadful example of
“militarism,” keeps 619,000 soldiers actually
under arms. Britain reckons that it keeps
413,000 soldiers of one kind and another
in constant service. The difference is not
vast enough to account, for the eloquence that is
wasted upon it. The last thing that the bottom
falls out of is the comforting theory of the Pod-
snap clan that, owing to their hatred of “ con-
scription,” such people as the Germans “emigrate
to England, America and Australia.” Ger man
emigrants in 1907 (the last year for which figures
are available) numbered 31,696, of whom only 153
went to England and 163 to Australia. In the
same year, Britain, with a far smaller population,
seat out 395,680 immigrants—counting only,
people of the British race. Within the period
1900-1905 (Germany takes a census every five
years), the number of British residents in Ger-
many Increased considerably, and of late many
British workmen have gone there. Apparently
the German doesn’t know he is the downtrodden
being some people take him for, and is quite con-
tent with his compulsory military training and his
Protective tariff. Possibly if the British person
tried these things he would be quite content also.
He already has immense compulsory taxation
and the flogging of aged vagrants to go on with.
* « • *
Taking one thing with another, there is every
reason to believe that the voluntary defence
system —which is only voluntary because the con-
scription law is not enforced —is on its last legs in
Britain. It is a system which only ropes in the
poorest and least serviceable elements of the
community, not because the Briton is unwarlike,
but because it has become a social disgrace to be a
mercenary soldier, just as it is to be a domestic
servant. On the other hand, the compulsorj
system gathers in practically everybody, and to
be a compulsory soldier is no more disgrace than
to be compulsory taxpayer. The voluntary
system turns its weed adrift at the end or jus
term —greatly improved, as a rule, by his train-
ing, but still something of a weed because he
was one to begin with —and generally loses
the run of him. The compulsory system
passes its discharged soldier into a reserve,
and knows where to find him. If a big war
breaks out both armies clamor for immediate re-
inforcements, so tlie voluntary force scrambles
together more untrained weeds out of the slums—
youths who don’t know one end of a rifle from the
other—while the compulsory force calls up its
reserves, and a host of trained soldiers step auto-
matically into the ranks. The organised army
ends the war and the misery promptly. The dis-
organised one wanders through years of indecisive
struggle and then pays its enemy to pretend to
surrender. An attempt is often made to spread
a certain atmosphere of freedom and piety about
the voluntary system, but unfortunately there is
no more evidence that God was with the British
when they were defeated before Ladysmith than
that He was against the Germans when they
conquered before Sedan. And it is difficult to see
that the law which compels the Briton to pay
£3 10s. 3d. per head in taxes stands for freedom
while the one which tears £2 ss. lOd. from the
German is grinding tyranny. In the bright
lexicon of Podsnap these things may be capable
of explanation, but the ordinary human finds
them difficult to comprehend.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Straight Line.
Mk. R. R. Knuckey writes from Higginsville
(W. A.): —
All Australians, and especially those who know any-
thing of the unsettled part of this continent, should thank
you for the stand you are taking to prevent interested
parties from diverging the route of the proposed north-
to-south transcontinental railway line from its natural
direction. As one of the pioneers of the Northern Terri-
tory (I was one of the 12 surveyors who surveyed Palmer-
ston in 1869, and also one who had a hand in building the
overland telegraph line). I claim to know something of
the country, and I emphatically say you are riuht in your
arguments every time. The line should go from Oodna-
JESSIE GAP, McDONNELL RANGES, in
the centre of Australia, on the line of the
direct Transcontinental Railway (Port Dar-
win to Port Augusta).
datta to Pine Creek, following- as near as possible the rout<-
of the present telegraph line. ■.
Now, as to the barren and desert country of the in-
terior, we all know that the greatest part of is
subject to drought, but the interior of Australia,
especially that part which lies north of the McDonnell
Ranges, is not afflicted so badly as the country south.
My experience is that the driest belt in Australia lies
between lat. 28 and 32. Alice Springs telegraph station,
in the McDonnell Ranges, is in lat. about (I speak from
memory) 23-30, so the country gets a fair amount of the
N. W. monsoonal rains. If the railway line were diverted
from Hergott Springs to Birdsville, it would have to go
through one of the driest belts of country in settled Aus.
tralia. Your correspondent, “ Mallarapoonie,” describes
the lookout from Mount Lewis truthfully. And if the
railway were to go further east, how about the floods th t
do occasionally occur in the lower Diamentina?
Following the direct line, South Australia has bridged
the driest part of the route already. From Oodnadatta
to Charlotte Waters the line would be fairly watered.
There is the Macumba, formed by the Alberga and the
Hamilton; the Stevenson ; and, only about ten miles
to the east of where the telegraph line crosses the
Stevenson are the Ralhousie Springs—the greatest
artesian springs found in Australia. There are hot
springs, soda spring's, salt springs and fresh water
springs. Continuing, the line would cross Blood’s Creek
and the Abminga, and pass Charlotte Waters, which are
permanent; then the Goyder, and then the Finke and
Hugh Rivers. All this country has been settled, but the
long distance to cart supplies has been in many cases too
heavy a handicap. Crown Point Station, on the Finke,
has lived through it all. North of the McDonnell Ranges,
between it and Barron Creek, is some of the best pastoral
countrv in Australia, and it is fairly watered, and has a
good rainfall. There is the Burt, the Hanson, the Wood-
forde and Stirling Swamp, besides numerous wells. One
of the latter, the Ti-Tree well, sunk by the constructing
party in 1870, could get no further depth than 30ft., the
inflow of water was so great. Between Barron Creek
and Tennant’s Creek the country is also good. At
Tennant’s Creek we are fairly in the tropical rainfall belt,
and droughts are unknown. Between that station and
Powell’s Creek there are Phillips’ Ponds, Keckwick’s
Ponds, Attack Creek, the Morphett, the Hawker, the
Tomkinson, the Hunter and Gleeson. There are some
fine springs at Powell’s Creek station, and the soil is very
rich. Some of the finest sweet potatoes I have ever seen
were grown there.
Continuing on to Daly Waters, there are the Lawson
and the Fcrgusson, and then Lake Woods and the great
Newcastle Waters—a chain of water 40 miles long. This
is the home in the dry season of, I believe, every specie
of wild aquatic fowl that exists in Australia. The blacks
from Gregory’s sandy tableland, which lies to the west,
come in here in the dry season. Continuing on,
there are Frew’s Ironstone Ponds, Johnston’s Ponds,
King’s Ponds, Milner’s Lagoon, McGowery’s and Auld’s


Ponds and Daly Waters and Creek—and then following
the Birdurn up to the Elsie Crossing, after which the line
would follow the Roper Creek and, crossing the King
River, reach the Katherine. The whole of the country I
have sketched here, from Oodnadatta to the Katherine,
would be occupied if a railway line went through it.
And now about the mineral side of the question. The
McDonnell Ranges has not turned up much yet, but it
has never been fairly prospected. Distance again ! Then
there is the Reynold Range. It has never been touched,
and I know traces of gold have been found there. But I
pin my faith on Tennant’s Creek. This place is in about
the same latitude as the fresh-discovered Tanatni.
Alluvial gold has been found both east and west of Ten-
nant’s Creek—and there are Bishop’s Range and Short’s
Range—all quartz, and never prospected. The distance
from a base is too far for any ordinary prospector ; but if
a railway line went there it would soon be rushed.
As for the climate of the Northern Territory, of course
near the coast there are three months of the year when
it is not very comfortable ; but I have worked in places
equally as bad in Australia. There were 146 of us all
told landed at Port Darwin in February, 1869. We
surveyed the city of Palmerston, and I think
, about 900,000 acres of land. We landed in
the middle of the wet season, and worked on
until the following November. We never had a case of
malaria and never lost a man by sickness, and I can
vouch for the work done. I have walked with my party
six miles to work in the morning, ran, pegged, marked
and trenched six miles of survey line, and walked six
miles back to camp the same day, and then slept on the
ground. The other parties had the same experience. I
have worked men, horses and bullocks, from the Roper
country to Tennant’s Creek, and from the Elsie to Port
Darwin, as hard as I have in any part of Australia, and
they did equally as well. There is a lot of (as the blacks
say) “ monkey gabber ” about the unfitness of the N.T.
for white men. There’s Frank Manning, here in Higgirw-
ville now, who prospected the country for 12 years, and
would have been there yet only for an accident, and he
and I have a good laugh over these fools’ talk. Frank is
74 years of age now, and is talking of how he would like
to have a go at the Tanami fields.
In conclusion, contrasting the country through which
the two transcontinental lines will pass, I have no
hesitation in saying that the line from Oodnadatta to
Pine Creek passes through far better country from start to
finish than the line from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie.
I built the telegraph line from Port Augusta to Eucla in
1875-77, and I know the route well that the proposed rail-
way will follow. There is not a patch of the country
between Oodnadatta and Pine Creek as dry as that be-
tween Tarcoola and Kalgoorlie, and yet that isn’t a desert.
Furious Driving.
It was a really notable financial year which
closed in N.S.W. on June 30, 1909. There have
been other notable years, but this one was beyond
the average. Inside 12 months the State added
£2,671,593 to its fixed debt. It also added
£1,226,487 to its loose or floating debt or over-
draft—that is to say, it borrowed that amount
temporarily, and will turn the liability into fixed
or permanent debt later on when the suitable
moment for floating a loan arrives. These two
items make £3,898,080 of loan money blewed
inside 12 months. And, in addition, the cash on
hand—the bogus “sinking fund” and the surplus
and the Public Works Closer Settlement
moneys—diminished by £647,009; so the net
liability grew during the year by £4,572,089.
The N.S.W. Public Debt now stands at over
£90,000,000, and the overdraft or floating debt
brings up the total to over £92,000,000. It is
proposed to spend £2,999,996 of loan money
during the new financial year, which will whoop
the debt up to over £95,000,000. After that two
more jumps of a year each should see it well past
£100,000,000, and N.S.W. will have a centennial
celebration all on its own. The career of the
“Reform” Government grows more interesting
day by day. It first secured office under Oar-
RUTHERS by being Shocked at the huge extra-
vagance and financial incapacity of Tom Wad-
dell. The papers which supported Carruthers
were also shocked—in fact, the hair of the S. M.
Herald and Telegraph whitened visibly with
horror and alarm. The Carruthers-Wade
Government pledged itself to reduce borrowing to
£1,500,000 a year for certain, to £1,000,Q00 a year
for almost certain, and quite probably to nothing.
The Government which was Shocked at Wad-
dell soon took Waddell in, and he joined
it in the capacity of a man who was
Shocked at Himself. Having been thrown out
on a charge of utter financial incapacity he was
naturally made Treasurer in this upside-down
Government. Then he began to borrow with the
Deform Ministry’s approval harder than he ever
did in previous days with its disapproval. The
daily papers, which utterly detested his extrava-
gance when he borrowed a good deal of money along
with See and O’Sullivan, now cordially approve
when he borrows a great deal more along with
Wade and Sam’l Wilkinson Moore and Jimmy
Alexander Hogue. The whole situation has
been inverted and balanced on its head. The
promised reduction or abolition of the great loan
fraud is never heard of now; some taxes were
abolished certainly, but that; was quite a different
thing. Even the habit of borrowing for unpro-
ductive works hasn’t been dropped. And the com-
munity still waits for an answer to two questions
which have been waiting a long time already :
(1) Is there any amount of revenue that can possibly
be imagined which, in the opinion of Wadi and Waddell,
will enable N.S.W. to do without loans?
(2) Is there any imaginable amount of debt which, in
the view of Wade and Waddell, would be sufficient
debt, or is it proposed to go right on till the State
owes £200,000,000 and then £500,000,000 and then
£1,000,000,000, and then to start gaily on the job of
piling up a second thousand millions of debt, with a third
to follow ?
These points call for consideration because it is
always well for the driver of the vehicle to have
some idea where he is going. He ought at least
to imagine that he is going somewhere. If he is
only going to gallop straight ahead till the trap—
the only one he has—breaks up, and has no idea
what lie will do after that or where he will be, he
ought to be arrested as a dangerous maniac before
he gets quite beyond the bounds of civilisation.
A Prophet of Evil.
Adelaide imported a Rev. Depledge-Sykes for
its chief Congregational Church lately ; and now
it has to put up with frequent outbursts of this
sort (Advertiser report):—
The White Australia policy was the utter negation of
the brotherhood of man. It was alien to the teaching of
Jesus, and gave the lie straight to the conception of a
world-wide empire of Christ. If history meant anything,
the spirit of which the White Australia policy was
symptomatic, was not only economically artificial, it was
ethically superficial. Sooner or later, in terms of blood
and righteous war, the day of humanitarian judgment
would dawn. He had heard of an Australian missionary
confronting an audience of educated Hindus, and
declaring to them the Gospel of the Fatherhood
of God and the brotherhood of man. At the
close of his earnest amd passionate appeal, a
Hindu stood out and said, “Missionary, go back
to Australia and tell your Government and people that,
and then come to us.” The Hindu was right. The White
Australia, as now existing, he did not hesitate to say,
was alien*to the missionary evangel and the missionary
spirit. It was monopoly maximised and vulgarised,
and flaunting its superficialities in the teeth of great
nations. Commercially, sooner or later, the dagger
would lodge in Australia’s breast —the night bird would
come home to roost. National policies that violated the
elementary principles of ethics were but as the iridescent
gleams flashing from stagnant pools.
It is all very large and beautiful on the part of
the person with the hyphen, but there are other
points which one might have expected him to
notice. For instance, when God set to work to
build up a new nation in a new land, He took
great and elaborate precautions to keep the race
pure. There was no provision for a half-caste
community in His scheme of things, and even if
Depledge-Sykes knows more than God he need
not be quite so uproarious in his denunciation.
Then when Sykes is so angry at the Australian
nation for keeping the nigger off the national
estate, he might spare a curse for the great
private landowner who keeps not only niggers
but white men off his estate, and says
that trespassers will be prosecuted; and
another curse for parsons who refuse to
admit niggers and Chinamen freely into their
houses and gardens. In fact, some of them do
worse than that, for The Bulletin has known
more than one tatter and narrow-minded Congre-
gational preacher who wouldn’t let a Unitarian or
a Roman Catholic priest into his pulpit. And
while Depledge was raving about Australia’s
alleged sin in depriving the Hindu of his right as
a human being to freely pervade this country—
and incidentally to have the police sooled on to
him if he pervaded Depledge-Sykes’ own little
bit of it—he might have saved up one little curse
for those people who have deprived the Hindu
of the right to govern himself in his own
country. If a man isn’t good enough to
govern his own country, let alone to help to
govern the blessed empire of which he forms about
three-quarters in a population sense, it seems
absurd to froth at the mouth in this awful fashion
because we don’t think that same colored man fit
to help to manage and rule our country. It is
simply amazing how absolutely impossible it is to
get a certain kind of parson, hyphenated or other-
wise, to even mention that the colored man has
any claims or rights at all, except the alleged right
to come to Australia as a cheap laborer and
gladden the heart of the rich man by cutting
down wages. And it is equally amazing that he
should rage so wildly when Australia puts up a
“Trespassers will be prosecuted” notice on its
property, while he won’t rage worth a copper at a
big landowner—often a big land-stealer—doing
the same. It is this sort of thing that makes a lot of
decent people regard a lot of clergymen
as frauds and parasites, abject trucklers to the
rich, false prophets who pervert the Scriptures
and distort history in order to oppress the poor,
and, in a general way, as on the same level as the
humble being whom the wealthy Roman used to
take around with him to scratch his back and
applaud his observations. These people are quite
satisfied that when the dagger does turn up it will
be plunged in the breast of Sykes’s church, and
that if the night bird does roost it will roost on his
hyphen. And they are not the least degree in-
terested in Sykes’s story of the Hindu who arose
and addressed the missionary on the iniquity of
the White Australia policy, because they don’t
believe there was any such Hindu ; he is too
much like the other bogus Hindu who was told
that the Bible was the secret of England’s
greatness. The Church has such a tendency
to manufacture evidence of this sort that
many people wouldn’t believe it on oath
these days. Besides, the Hindu is too busy
denouncing the alleged iniquity of British
rule in India—a matter upon which Mr. Sykes
might curse a few words when he has time —to
trouble much about Australian methods in Aus-
tralia. He has got to that point of exasperation
now that he expectorates at white men and
women in the streets of Calcutta, and when he
addresses a missionary he does it in quite a dif-
ferent tone from the remarks quoted by Sykes.
In fact, if Sykes repeated faithfully the sort of
remarks the Hindu makes to the missionary these
days his congregation would flee in disorder and
never come back.
♦
Interference in the Butchering Business.
Good old Private Enterprise will feel pretty sick
if it takes up the last publication of John B.
Trivett, the N.S.W. Government Statistician.
Trivett has been analysing “ the mortality from
tubercular diseases during the last 33 years,” and
he arrives at some remarkable results. Taking
the N.S.W. death rate from consumption in
1905-8 as the standard, and calling that 100, the
position just previous to 1887 was as follows :
1883 .. .. 175
1884 .. .. 201
1885 .. .. 202
1880 .. .. 205
So things were getting serious—the death rate,
which was If times greater in 1883 than it was in
1905-8, was in 1886 more than twice as great. Up
to that time matters were left pretty much
to Private Enterprise. If Private Enterprise
chose to supply tainted milk from diseased cows,
it was merely a matter between Private Enter-
prise and his customers. In most cases, however,
the customer died too suddenly to make much
noise ; and, anyway, he generally didn’t know for
certain what had hit him. So, as Private Enter-
prise evidently wasn’t prepared to sacrifice a cow
merely because its milk was full of deadly germs,
which by good luck weren’t painted blue and
yellow in stripes and therefore weren’t visible
to the naked eye, the State took a hand and
passed the Dairies Supervision Act of 1886. In
that year, as shown above, the mortality was 205
by the standard. Of every 100,000 people ex-
posed to the risk of the dirty or ignorant
milk vendors’ poison in Sydney and suburbs,
5560—3078 males and 2482 females—had died
in the previous year. That Act of 1886 de-
clared for the first time that all milk vendors
must be registered. It provided for the immediate
notification of infectious diseases in the milk-
vendors’ households ; it provided for the inspection
of dairies and dairy cattle ; it told Private Enter-
prise that no infected person might be employed
in the milk business. How the death-rate had
been racing upwards is shown by the figures
quoted above. And then this remarkable result
followed: —
1886 .. .. 205
1887 .. .. 172
188 S .. .. 184
1889 .. .. 173
1890 .. ... 156
In 1885—the year before the State took a hand
and told Private Enterprise what it might do
and what it mightn’t—3o7B out of every 100,000
males in Sydney and suburbs died from tubercular
disease in one form or other. By 1890, after the
Act had been at work for four years, the slaughter
was down to 2137 per 100,000. The saving of life
had been so tremendous that the State was thus
encouraged to “interfere” with Private Enter-
prise in the slaughtering line still further. The
law, which, so far, had only applied to milk, was
in 1892 extended to meat and other foodstuffs;
and year by year its administration has been made
more effective. In 1890, as mentioned above, 2137
males out of every 100,000 in Sydney and suburbs
died of tubercular disease. Ten vears later the
slaughter had been reduced to 1385. Every step
that has been taken has been a step in
the direction of further “interference”; and
every “interference” has been an interference
with the murder of the people. The loss
of life is still outrageous; from this one
preventable disease 1276 people died in N.S.W.
during last year. Yet, if there can be so much
“interference ” that the decline in the death-rate
continues on the same scale as has been achieved
during the past 20 years, “it would be possible,”
says Statistician Trivett, “practically to ex-
tinguish the scourge within a quarter of a century,
and our children’s children should be virtually
freed from this type of disease.” That is some-
thing to look forward to. But even now so much
has been done that, had only the present-day
rate of slaughter prevailed during the past 33
years, there would have been 13,496 fewer victims
■ —and probably that would have, meant an effective
addition to the population of at least 30,000
people, seeing that so large a proportion of the
victims have been young people. What Private
Enterprise has got to say about the matter it
would he interesting to hear. The best it can say
is that it didn’t know —that it was deplorably
ignorant. Its ignorance was really more often
avarice; it didn’t know because it didn’t pay it to
know. And what excuse is ignorance, anyhow—
especially when allied with bumptiousness of the
worst kind? For Private Enterprise isn’t at all
humbled by this evidence and many other evi-
dences that the State Interference party knows a
vast deal more than it does, and it still sniffs an
elevated and sky-towering sniff at the “folly” of
people who insist on making laws which “ hamper
the progress of industry,” and so on.
+
The Encouragement of Crime in Melbourne.
That the Chief Commissioner of Police for Vic-
toria should have issued an order of silence to his
officers as regards the numerous thefts and bur-
glaries which go “undetected” in Melbourne nowa-
days is not nearly so remarkable as the fact that
his policy appears to have the tacit approval of
the Government. One can understand why
O’Callaghan is anxious to keep the inefficiency
of his police force from being published every
day in the press; but there can be no good
reason why the present Government—which
didn’t appoint O’Callaghan on His Last Legs,
and is now waiting for his approaching retirement
—should sanction any arrangement for keeping the
community ignorant of the danger to which it is
exposed. Certain of the Melbourne detectives
are notoriously in close touch with men who for
their part are in close touch with active criminals.
These men, if not the actual directors of burg-
laries and highway robberies, are practically
dealers in stolen property. They act as agents,
with the full connivance of the police, in the re-
covery of valuables for which the lawful owners
are prepared to pay a better price than
any professional receiver will pay. Consequently
there are four parties interested in keeping the
public in the dark concerning the felonies which
are so frequently compounded and so rarely dis-
cussed in the police-court. The burglar or
jewellery-snatcher is suited by this conspiracy of
silence, likewise the middleman, and the detective
who “stands in,” and the O’Callaghan whose
police force is thereby preserved from much
opprobrium which it richly deserves. The robbed
persons are not advantaged even in the cases
where they are able to buy back their property,
for under proper police protection they probably
would not have been robbed at all. Melbourne
cannot hope for better protection until the public
is fully informed of the extent to which crime is
privileged in its midst, firstly by those corrupt
detectives who fatten on it, and secondly by the
easy system of jury-squaring and perjury manu-
facture which has enabled many criminals to go
free, though they were actually prosecuted. In
permitting police information received to be
withheld from the press, the Murray Government
is encouraging crime and delaying those inevitable
reforms in police administration which, seemingly,
will never come to pass until an aroused com-
munity insists upon getting them.
«.
The Young Idea—Here and Elsewhere.
The Ma State’s Director of Education has been
touring America ; and about the most remarkable
slice of information he picked up on his travels
was in Wisconsin, which owns the leading State-
owned University in Uncle’s country. A gentle-
man named Van Wise is its president, and he
hasn’t any time for the mere frill and fichu part of
the business. Van Wise’s idea of a University is
that it ought to teach things, and if people can’t
come to the University then the University must
go to them. Oxford would probably gasp at his
way of putting it: —
The aggressive business-man does not wait for the con-
sumer to go to the wholesale establishment. . . . He gets
his products out to the retail stores by advertisement,
by travelling agents, and in other ways. Also more and
more the manufacturer is beginning to establish retail
stores. . . . Are we to be less aggressive in education than
we are in business?
Wisconsin University therefore has its bagmen,
so to speak. It hesitated for a long time, and
then it, moreover, adopted that characteristieally-
American but mostly-unsatisfactory system of
correspondence lessons. John Stuart Mill,
who, as Rector of St. Andrew’s, had the famous
argument with Froude over the functions of a
University, would have been shocked at this
method ; but he would have been simply horrified
at the list of subjects taught. “Universities,” he
said, “are not intended to teach the knowledge
required to fit men for some special mode of earn-
ing their livelihood. Their object is to make cul-
tivated human beings.” Wisconsin’s idea is that you
can cultivate a field by ploughing it and planting
it with wheat just as well as by digging it and plant-
ing it with daffodils ; so the Wisconsin young man
can take a Correspondence course in Agriculture,
Home Economics, or Highway Construction, as
well as in Literature or Philosophy. Still, it is
recognised that the Correspondence method is not
the best—it is only the next best. Actually,
therefore, the University has its travellers, not so
much, apparently, to teach as to put heart into
the students who can’t personally attend at
lectures ; and they do that chiefly by chasing
away difficulties which almost invariably get in
the road of the student who is trying to become
wise by the Correspondence method. But while
he obviously approves of this aggressive spirit,
Mr. Board, the Ma State’s director, doesn’t
go into the matter of ways and means ; and that
can’t be left out of any reckoning. It is
quite true, as he suggests, that the University of
Sydney has done less than it ought; but has the
State done what it ought ? Quoting early this
year before a Parliamentary committee from a
speech he had made three or four years ago, Dr.
MacLaurin, the Chancellor, said that the Uni-
versity got about £14,000 from the State, while
Edinburgh receives from the Government
£25.870, Glasgow £20,880, Aberdeen £14,400,
and St. Andrew’s, with only a hand-
ful of students, £lO,OOO. These, however,
are small amounts beside those with which
American Universities are State-endowed. The
University of California receives from the State
£42,000 a year and from the Federal Govern-
ment another £7OOO. For the last five
years the average State grant to the Uni-
versity of Sydney has been under £14,000.
In 1902 it was under £lO,OOO. Whether, even if
it had the money, the University would show the
same progressive and practical spirit as the Uni-
versities which have lately been hitting the
Director of Education in the eye is another
matter. The State cannot, however, reasonably
ask it to do these things unless it provides the
money. But if it provides the money it is
entitled to call the tune. And it is not
only entitled to call the tune —it is entitled
also to nominate the conductor. At present
it is an amazing and ridiculous thing that
each institution has its own conductor, and
each plays its own tune. There is no such thing
as co-ordination between the State schools and
the University. Each pursues its own separate
way ; and between the two there is a great gulf
fixed which not one in a thousand of those who
attend the State schools ever crosses, or ever, per-
haps, has a thought of crossing, simply because,
for pupil and teacher alike, the University is a
thing apart.
The Reason.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now tell me why do you all live in the cities? I can’t
understand why you crowd the cities, while there’s all
“out there” calling’—waiting. Why have you such a
great big city as this in so young a country with so small
a population? It’s a wonderful country. I’m simply
delighted with it —with its immense possibilities, its im-
mense future. . . . It’s population you want all over its
length and breadth—population to help it on that will
not throng' the city, but will settle and make homes out
there. . . . The man on the land is the true history-
maker. Why do the sons make for and stay in towns and
cities?—J. Foster Fraser, in S. M. Herald (S5/9/'(iy).
Well —it’s this way, Mister Fraser,
Seeing that you ask the question
And seem mightily astonished
At our penchant for the city :
We, too, hear the country calling,
And we know the land is waiting—
Bless your innocent Scots face, sir !
We have known the fact for ages ;
But—-observe our timid “ but,” sir—
We have landlords , Mister Fraser ;
Pious and high-minded men, sir,
Whom our rulers honor greatly,
Grandsons of the old First Fleeters
(In their day and generation
They were pious and high-minded).
Who came hither—much as you, sir—
Full of philanthropic projects,
And they said : “ My ! What a country ! ”
Gazing on it, they were staggered
And entirely obfuscated—
Much as you, sir—with its Future—
Its immense and glowing Future :
Oh, our sweet, elusive Future ! . . .
Pardon me, sir, thus bemusing ;
But, you know, we bards have feelings.
Did I say that they were staggered ?
They were more than that, our Hyksos,
Our great Shepherd Kings and Squatters !
They bewailed with lamentation,
Pretty much as you do now, sir,
That the country looked so empty ;
Ah ! it grieved them very sorely
To behold the empty spaces—
All the lack of population—
Antres vast and deserts idle,
Sparsely speckled o’er with niggers,
But not one high-minded landlord.
Not one solitary squatter —
Not a blessed Corporation
In two thousand million acres ! . . .
Sir, my feelings overcome me. . .
Well. . . . they argued it was sinful—
Not according to the Scriptures
Or the Sydney Morning Herald,
That such wicked waste should be, sir ;
So they said : “ We will be Landlords,
Pious and high-minded squatters,
Pillars of the Constitution,
Pioneers of Law and Order,
Representatives of Heaven.”
And they took up all the country,
All the damp and fertile country,
All the tine old empty places.
All the wide and useful spaces,
All the lakes, lagoons and rivers,
All the flats and grassy uplands,
Sparsely speckled o’er with niggers.
Each high-mindedly acquired, sir,
Several hundred thousand acres,
Rich in minerals and timber.
Plus one large, unbounded Future. . .
Then .. . they died ; they had to die, sir,
Death is vilely Democratic-
May I say quite Socialistic,
Prone to horrible down-levellings
And subversive of all station ?
But their sons became great landlords,
Pious and high-minded squatters.
Ever adding to their holdings,
Laying paddock unto paddock,
Joining station unto station,
Shifting landmark after landmark,
Fencing in the unused commons,
Bribing clerks to alter boundaries,
Filching all the unused roads, sir :
For they argued, Mister Fraser,
With unanswerable logic,
(There was no one by to answer)
“ Where there is no population,
What’s the use of having roadways ?
Not a bit!” . . . And so they grabbed them.
Then they died —excuse this tear, sir.
But their sons are here, thank Dingo !
And we point you to them proudly.
Yet with most respectful finger.
Gaze your fill, nor wonder longer
Why five hundred thousand folk, sir,
From the throngs that choke this city
Don't among them own one acre,
While a moderate-sized squatter,
Pious and high-minded likewise.
Holds FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND
ACRES!
Thus you see the simple reason
Why we crowd into the cities ;
And our young men leave the country
Just to loaf about the pavements
And encourage, pony-racing
(That’s the thing to save Australia !) —
THERE IS NOWHERE ELSE TO GO,
SIR 1 . . .
Not at all; you’re very welcome.
Kindly make some more remarks, sir,
In the Sydney Morning Herald.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


The Electrolytic Refining: and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Filins
V FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cinp. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 Ceorge Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Two Sides of a River.
A fkw days ago Mead, the Victorian irrigation
expert, and a party of excursionists visited Mil-
dura. Mead is strong on small holdings and
intense culture, and the big sheep-farmers curse
his small holdings scheme and prophesy general
blue ruin if it is carried out. At Mildura, how-
ever, Mead was received with tons of enthu-
siasm ; and as a triumph for small holdings the
settlement will take some beating. For example :
Mildura now carries a population of 5000 on 12,000 acres
of cultivated land. Twenty years ago the area would not
carry that number of sheep, and even now the recognised
homestead block of the N.S.W. settlers on the opposite
side of the river is upwards of 10,000 acres.
On the same page of the Age, from which the
foregoing is extracted, are the latest Victorian
farming statistics, which include the following
:beerful figures:—
1903-4. 1908-9.
Area under potatoes .. 48,930 acres 47,903 acres
Area under wheat .. 1,968,599 acres 1,779,905 acres
Area under oats.. .. 433,638 acres 418,869 acres
This is the melancholy result of five years “pro-
gress.” During the same period the population of
the State has only increased by 84,000, or a paltry
16,800 per annum. In every direction farms have
been bought up by adjoining land-owners, which
means every time the dead loss of a family to the
district. There have been numerous subdivisions
of estates, it is true ; but subdivisions are no
permanent value unless there is some law
to keep them subdivided. So far as it goes,
Mead’s small holdings, irrigated, with intense
culture, promise well in this direction, for these
small farms (such as at Mildura) are too valuable,
and need too much personal supervision to pay in
large areas. Mildura is a splendid example of
what can be done with small holdings, especially
as the bad old system is in full swing on the other
side of the river.
♦
Room for a New League.
The eighteenth annual report of the British
Humanitarian League, containing a record of
work done in 1908-1909, is to hand. The showing
>8 a good one. Floggings and hangings have been
interfered with ; various blood sports have been
effectively protested against; pigeon-shooting has
been abolished at a number of big social clubs
(in part, if not wholly, owing to the representa-
tions of the League), and so on. It suggests the
strangeness of the fact that in Australia
there is no organisation of this sort. We
have Women’s Leagues, Freetrade Leagues,
Anti-Sosh Leagues, Browning Leagues, Liberal
and Reform Leagues, and about 700 other
varieties of Leagues, most of them per-
fectly useless—but none to hinder man from
pursuing his immemorial custom of ill-using his
fellow-man and his fellow-beast. True there is a
local S.P.C. A., but it is so small and unobtrusive,
and it so seldom raises its voice in protest against
anything, that 95 per cent, of people don’t know
it exists. If a twentieth part of the folks who are
now members of leagues for the countering of the
Socialistic “ Menace,” the revivifying of the dead
doctrine of the dead Cobden, and other senseless
or lost causes, banded together and put their
energies into preventing needless trouble to living
things round them, the Commonwealth would feel
grateful and be cleaner. There is a fine, large
scope for an Australian Humanitarian League. It
could direct its attention to the different coursing
grounds of this continent, where trapped hares or
rabbits are released in front of trained dogs, and
torn down, screaming, for the brutalisation of the
multitude. It could bombard the press and cir-
cularise M’s. P. on the subject of the pigeon-
shooting clubs which infest every district of im-
portance in most of the States. It would, in this
regard, insist particularly on the anguish inflicted
on the wretched creatures that are not lucky
enough to get killed outright, pointing out that
though a number of birds are technically missed
in every pigeon match (i.e., they don’t absorb
enough shot to cause them to drop inside a given
boundary), yet few escape altogether unwounded,
so that the tally of fowl which expire slowly and
painfully out of sight is hideously large. It
would agitate unceasingly for State abattoirs,
and the total abolition of Private Enterprise
slaughter-houses. This would be as humane a
step from the point of view of the consumer as
from that of the consumed. It would prevent the
beast proceeding to its end through unspeakable
misery and terror and pain, and it would go along
way towards preventing the absorber of it from
proceeding to his end via the portals of a Consump-
tive Home. A properly constituted Humani-
tarian League would bring about the retire-
ment of many of our ’bus-horses and a fair
proportion of our cab-horses. It would fall like
an avalanche on the speculating pastoralist
who overstocks on the chance of rain, and
finds himself, when the moisture holds off,
with thousands of starving sheep on his conscience;
and it would work havoc among those limiters of the
birth-rate who refuse to employ the possessors of
White Australian “encumbrances.” Judging by
•the plethora of leagues now in existence and the
rapidity with which they are multiplying, there
is a lot of vital energy going in this line ; and if
there is a better way for the person who feels he
or she must join a league or burst, to spread him
or herself, this paper would like to hear of it.
The Fiji Gazette has just published the figures
which show how our peaceful brown Indian
brother behaved himself in that small archipelago
during 1908. These, first, are the Supreme Court
eases (Indians only):
Offence. Charged. Convicted.
Murder ....... .. ■ 14 12
Attempted Murder .. .. 3 3
Wounding.. .. .. .. 12 12
Arson 5 1
Perjury .. .. .. .. 3 1
Indecent Assault . . .. 1 1
Burglary .. 23 11
Robbery 5 1
Other offences (indictable) .18 10
Only three cases of perjury, observe. But perjury
is so abominably common among Ram Box and
Co. that it is scarcely worth while sending cases on
to the Supreme Court, so under Ordinance 11. of
1898 stipendiary magistrates deal with this crime
themselves. Of charges laid and summarily dealt
with—including assault (disgusting and other-
wise), robbery, wounding, etc. —there were no less
than 2237, counting convictions only. Male
offenders were 74 per cent, of the total; females,
26 per cent. The total Indian population is
33,150; so for every 14 of ourpeaceful, law-abiding
brown brothers there was one conviction—the
peaceful, obedient, placid, law-abiding brown
brothers whom some few Australians still want to
see settled in our own Northern Territory !
»
A few remarks were recently made in the House
of Reps, re the case of Bowden Brothers and a
marine insurance co. of Japan. This Jap con-
cern used to have offices in Australia, and
Bowden Brothers, .actuated by some motive or
other—possibly by that anti-Australian craving
for foreign institutions with which so many com-
mercial men are afflicted—-did business with it.
While the firm was simply paying premiums
the business seems to have been quite satisfactory.
The Jap took the premiums with an honorable
smile and seemed the embodiment of probity.
Then there was a loss to pay, and the Jap office
smiled with the other side of its countenance. It
had plenty of money, but it didn’t pay. Then
there were legal proceedings, but the company
was apparently so sure that its case wasn’t
likely to convince the Court that it
didn’t wait for the result. It just gath-
ered up its local assets, locked the office
door, and went home to Japan. At great ex-
pense the firm pursued it there with a verdict for
£3021 and Costs, but the Japanese Court refused
to recognise the claim in any way, and the firm •
which preferred a foreign brown policy to an
Australian white one is left lamenting. It is diffi-
cult to feel much sympathy for the firm. Yet, as
a shocking example, it has its value. Australians
have recently fallen in over foreign insurance con-
cerns belonging to three different nations, and in
every case the trouble was the same ; business
became bad, and the extraneous concern just
packed its bag and fled for home and mother.
When they have fallen in a few more times they
may begin to see the advantage of dealing with
the local office which lias all its belongings and its
shaerholders here, and consequently can’t leave.
A number of the big landlords of N. S. Wales are
beginning to feel very shaky about the outlook ;
and it’s a cold day now when the papers don’t
publish large sprawling advts., inviting the
earth to roll up and buy portions of some
great sheep-run or other. The trouble that
is rattling the big landlord is not only the
ever-threatening progressive land-tax, but the
accumulation also of a large surplus of stock.
Since the big drought brought the total down to
about 27,000,000 head, seven years ago, there
has been a wonderful recovery; and when the
returns for 1909 come along there will probably be
found to be something like 50,000,000 sheep in
N. S. Wales alone. If the season hums as cheer-
fully as everything indicates, about half this mob
will be mud fat by Christmas and ready for
the butcher. But there are not the people here to
eat them, thanks to the State’s old deliberate
policy of discouraging manufactures and en-
couraging the “great natural industries.” For
the past few years prices have been kept up
on the Sydney market by exporting any sur-
plus. But the end has dropped out of the
frozen meat trade, and there doesn’t appear to be
much chance of early improvement; for about
2.000,000 carcases are stored in London already.
The export trade has, in fact, been knocked to
pieces by the American Meat Trust, which has
built up an almost absolute control of the British
trade; and Australian Private Enterprise hasn’t
Buckley’s chance of knocking that Trust out in a
hurry. So the bloated landlord looks first at the
increasing mob of sheep in N. S. Wales, and then
at the millions of carcases stored in London ;
after which lie whistles up a land agent or an
auctioneer, or gets some political pal to whisper
to Wade that Dead bones is just the sort of
estate he ought to buy at a high price for
closer settlement. Up to now the high price of
wool has kept his alarm within reasonable bounds,
and when he opens his mouth he still opens it
very wide ; but if anything should happen to the
wool market as well, it would be the last straw,
and the agents and auctioneers would be almost
rushed off their legs.
Lord Charles Beresford propounded a theory
the other day that Britain and the United States
should combine to prohibit war and guarantee the
world’s tranquillity ; and a good deal of eloquent
fluff has since been wasted on the subject. One
naturally wonders how the two Powers would do
it. Presumably, when there were signs of war
anywhere, these great peaceful States would give
notice that there must be no hostilities. If hos-
tilities commenced despite the notice, then the
two great peaceful States would either leave
things alone, in which case affairs would be just
as they were before, or else they would join in,
and in that case there would be more war than
ever. In fact, the two peaceful States would be
the most vvarlike States on earth, for they would
be in every war. And if it happened to be a
great land war—say between Russia and Austria
—the only result to be achieved by shoving the tiny
British army and the still smaller Yankee one into
a disturbance of that size would be the loss of both
of them. Of course, the combatants’ ports might
be blockaded; but for J. Bull to join with
Jonathan in cutting off the Russian and pro-
bably the Roumanian wheat supply from Bull’s
own country so that, amid the resultant scarcity,
Jonathan of America might raise the price of
U.S. wheat upon his friend Bull, would look like
bad business. There is something large and fas-
cinating about these ideas of preserving the
world’s peace, but they don’t seem to stand close
inspection. Besides, the only big war that Bull
has on hand just now is his struggle against the
U.S. Meat Trust, and that promises to be a more
desperate struggle than even the foolish old
Crimean annoyance.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Flag Lieutenant.”
Her Majesty’s “ The King of Cadonia.”
Criterion “ The Taming of the Shrew.”
Palace “ The Marrying- of Ma.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving- Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMTNG WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Catch of the Season.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
King’s “ The Great Rescue.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
—♦
No modern producer can afford to present
“ The Taming of the Shrew ” as Shakspeare wrote
it, and discretion is called for in the matter of
“cuts.” The Asche version, which arrived at the
Sydney Criterion on Saturday night, is about as
satisfactory a one as is imaginable. The inclusion
of the Induction gives the fine character actor
who heads the combination an opportunity to
spread himself in the grotesque role of the
tinker. Never perhaps was there a more con-
vincing portrait of the “ boor carousing.” Withal,
one realises while watching it why the average
stager of Shakspeare shies so persistently at that
Induction. The robustious humor of the 16th
century practical jokers makes only a faint appeal
to this generation. And there is a horrid frankness
and realism about the carnal appetites of the dipso-
maniacal peddler which tends to revolt playgoers of
our squeamish age. Oscar Asche as Sly lays on the
colors with an unrelenting hand, and evolves a
hideous thing indeed.
• * * *
The Petruchio of this actor, in the play
proper, is a merrier, kindlier, less blusterous
queller of rebellious females than the same
character in the hands of Kolker, who
played it here last year. Asche makes
Petruchio a rowdy, genial, jest-loving nobleman
of the period, whereas his predecessor suggested,
in spots, an infuriated and up-to-date ring-
master. Asche is aided by a full and resonant
voice—an ideal organ for the part—an easy
manner, and a sense of humor. The problem that
faces every actress who sets out to portray
Katharina is to make her a virago and at the same
time a female of refinement and charm. Mostly,
when in a grown woman shrewishness enters at
the door, attractiveness flies out of the window or
any other handy exit. Miss Lily Brayton, with
youth, the physical advantages of a slight girl-
ish figure, and a face and at times a voice of
pathos, is enabled to suggest throughout one who
is what she is despite herself, as it were—one who
has all sorts of underlying excuses for her un-
pleasant behavior. She has been spoiled ; she is
still a mere child, and it has needed but the
appearance of her natural master to bring, her to
her bearings.
The production goes with a swing and
verve. It is strong on the comic side. Not a
chance is missed by anyone to score a laugh. The
players are about as level a lot as have been seen
in a Shakspearian production in this city. Athol
Forde is a most humorous and diverting Grumio.
Gremio is well played by Caleb Porter. R. F.
Anson presents the oddest and funniest of Bion-
dellos. G. Kay Souper is an ornate and impressive
Lucentio. Miss Elfrida Clement is a delightful
Bianca. And the minor parts are soundly filled.
“KING OF CADONIA ” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTYS.
Lottie
Sargent as
Malitza.
A new Duke of
Alasia (W. S. Percy).
“ The King of Cadonia ” is Still at home
to loyalists at Her Majesty’s on the usual terms.
Moreover, Fred Leslie is back in the degrading,
though distinctly amusing, r&le of Regent; and
everything in the financial garden of the manage-
ment is lovely.
** * *
At Sydney Theatre Royal “Jack and Jill”
won’t run up the hill after Thursday next. On
the following Saturday “ The Flag Lieutenant,”
driven out of Her Majesty’s by fire a couple of
months ago, will be revived at the Castlereagh-
street playhouse.
“Married to the Wrong Man,” the new
Sydney Palace drama, has taken a firm grip of
the public imagination, and shoals of people are
pouring cash into the box office in order to ascer-
tain exactly how horrible it was. The title repre-
sents theatrical signboard advertising at its best.
It is a splendid combination of a cry of anguish and
a query, and it loudly demands investigation at
popular prices. The writer was bailed up at
2 o’clock last Saturday afternoon in Castlereagh-
street by a young man from the country, who
wanted to know where the play was running and
if he would be in time to catch the next perform-
ance. He had read the title of distress amongst
the rustling gums of his far-back Closer Settle-
ment block, and had fled to town by the next
train. It is a far-reaching bellow that will drag a
man from his fencing] to the city. The sid.
husband mentioned in last week’s notice is
evidently going to have a long run for his coppers.
** * *
Mr. Laurance Phillip played with his
usual nervous force and bravura on Saturday,
when he began a series of piano recitals with
a grand sonata by Glazunow, a Russian com-
poser. By now a score of advanced students are
worrying the, to them, new piece on the key-
board. Afterwards came a steady stream of vic-
torious tone, as the player interpreted a group of
Chopin pieces. Miss Elsa Fischer, Miss G.
Davies, Mr. A. K. Jamieson, Mr. A. H. Haigli
and Mr. G. S. Holburn assisted the pianist. At
next Saturday’s recital Mr. Charles Kenningham
will sing. The recitals occur at the Y.M.C.A.
Hall.
** * *
That well-known work, the Bible, is now
getting a free advertisement at Sydney Tivoli,
where Miss Athmore Grey is slowly gyrating and
partially disrobing in the Salome Dance, the
music for which sounds as if it had been written
by some eminent Chow composer. Two or three
braziers, temple scenery, stage fire and the head
of the Baptist on a plate help out Miss Grey’s
performance ; but the turn is not enlivening, and
the applause doled out by the awed Tivolean may
be described as non-committal. Herod isn’t visible
to the opera glasses, and the gradual shedding of
the filmy draperies has no audience save the
staring Head and the intent person in the gallery.
The dancer has some effectively gruesome ges-
tures ; towards the climax her arms and hands are
made to writhe and twist like snakes; but the
greater portion of the dance is just a slow waltz
punctuated with falling clobber. Blake and
Granby have a slight but cheerful racing sketch,
and the. Two Bells , are prancing gaily through a
brief farewell season. Ronald George, the boy
instrumentalist, has added some clever kettle-
drum imitations to his turn ; and Charles J.
Johnson-of-the-Cakewalk demonstrates the ele-
gance of the cullud pusson when he tries. The
beautiful Seals are beautiful no longer; they’re
shop-worn and tired, and deserve a rest.
# *• * *
“The Catch of the Season,” introduced
to this country at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) last
Saturday', is one of the brightest though the least
polished, and absolutely the oddest though the
most unoriginal, of the many musical entertain-
ments the Williamson management has staged.
Favorable first impressions of the comedy are
bound to be bettered. Familiarity must breed
respect for such a clever new treatment of an old
subject. The good stuff in it cannot be half
appreciated in one hearing; and, besides, the
performance will acquire polish as it goes along.
Whether it will.achieve the popular success of
“ Florodora ” and other comedies wherein the low-
comedian roamed at large, is a social question for
Time to decide. There are no irrelevant
buffooneries or music-hall “turns” in this
case. “The Catch of the Season” has an
atmosphere of Mayfair, and its human interest
has a ducal coronet stamped on every link. In
fact, the sentiment of the show is as "classy” as
that of many a brilliant unmusical play which has
delighted the few and been ignored by the many
in Melbourne. The scenes are, firstly, “Lady
Crystal’s House, Mayfair” ; secondly, the “ Ball-
room at the Duchess of St. Jermyn’s” ; and, finally,
the brief pictorial episode of Angela’s Wedding,
which is by way of being a transformation scene,
with a sweetly fanciful prelude. For Angela is
Cinderella, transferred to London and brought up
to date.' The Duchess’s son is the Prince who
marries Cinderella, and the Ball is given to
celebrate his coming of age. Lady Crystal
(wife of Sir John) is the heroine’s stepmother, and
her two daughters are the traditionally spiteful
sisters. The old nursery story is not parodied as
in “ The Lady Slavey,” or pantomimed as in the
recent Meynell and Gunn production. It appears
in the form of a poetical realistic 20th century
version of the old fairy fiction, and suggests a
vision of Cinderella taking the chair at a Primrose
League meeting.
* * * *
Miss Fanny Dango is-hardly so young and
charming as the character she plays, nor: is her
voice equal to the, musical requirements ; but
within her limitations the little lady does ail
things admirably, except the Irish brogue she
assumes at the Ball. Her brogue is a dire failure.
Andrew Higginson is also blessed with a
mighty fine part. He is both a sentimental
hero and a Merry Andrew the jaunty
romantic lover who fires off jokes. Taking
him altogether, Higginson is a success. His
hasal, bleatful singing is the weakest feature of
his performance, whilst his rorty ingenuousness is
its conspicuous virtue. There’s a youthful frank-
ness about Andrew’s gambols in the dancing
duets; and his quick repartees and “gags”
sound like impromptus—he blurts them out in the
happiest way. D. B. O’Connor makes a slim and
gentle Lord Dundreary, with a stutter supposed
to be inherited from the Dundreary of the late
actor Sothern, and a humorous song that he
warbles artistically. The stutter, to be sure, was
a poor thing on Saturday, but it should be easily
improved. Miss Alma Vaughan is a stylish
Duchess, and Mrs. Henry Bracy makes a valuable
reappearance as Lady Caterham, the fairy god-
mother of the piece. Miss Georgie Musgrove
fills the gowns of Lady Crystal, and Miss
Nellie Wilson, as the elder jealous sister,
plays the character handsomely, and gets an
encore for her cigarette song, the accompani-
ment for which seems to need more strings
in the orchestra than are provided at
Her Majesty’s. On the other hand, Miss
Milne (the other jealous sister) is as lacking in
mannah and deportment as James Hughes, who
plays Sir John, or as the crudest of the Duchess’s
minor guests. A particular novelty is a pageboy
in buttons, played by Roy Seaton, a nipper of 12
or thereabouts. The amorous heroics and gloomy
despair of young Buttons are genuinely humorous.
Some of the music is sweet; a ballet of acrobatic
girleens brings the house down ; and the various
attractions of the chorus includes eight Gibson
Girls, the alleged offsprings of Gouriet. Save as
the parent and shepherd of these occasional
visitors, Gouriet has no more to do with- the for-
tunes of “ The Catch of the Season” than Miss
Florence Young and Reginald Roberts, who were
among the audience on Saturday ryght.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for
subjects constantly arriving,
parts, and accessories stocked,
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street,
hire new
Machines,
■ Write. |
Sydney. I
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No: 230 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING .STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS* Etc
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. g HOWARD popp m
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. ° PE> Mana » er -
& Y'° a,ha^ e
GOLF. *
FISHING-RIVER
O and DEEP SEA. £
SURF=BATHING. BOATING.
Launch meets train at Nowra (h
terminus. Lunch on board.
Telegrams—MANAGEß,
CREENWELL POINT.
r <*v
point
“Miss Hook of Holland” is back in all
her radiance at the Theatre Royal; Melbourne,
and she and her tribe got a rousing welcome last
Saturday. Miss Hook has now a new lover:
for the first time in Melbourne Thorley
takes the place of the Bottomley bandmaster,
who ogles the daughter of the Distiller}'.
Thorley scarcely fills the patent-leather
pumps of Bottomley—or, rather, he over-fills
them. The bandmaster is a beautifully groomed
manikin, and manifestly a ladies’ pet. Thorley
scarcely puts the necessary enthusiasm and femi-
ninity into the part, and his voice is not as rousing
as his self-satisfied predecessor’s was a year ago.
Jtssie Perrin, who is a mere nobody in the play,
makes herself a considerable somebody in the
performance. Her dancing was always poetic,
and new poems have been added to her garland.
Brett and Cromwell still only have to smile to get
roars of appreciation from the devoted gods.
Helene Rose poses to good effect as a blue-and-
white bier-madchen, and Ruth Lincoln renews
her popularity as Miss ’Ook. The company can’t
complain of its reception. A crowded Royal
encored the lot in all possible places, and the re-
vival went with all the swing and vigor of a brand
new success.
** * *
After a season of 15 months, Anderson
vacates Melbourne King’s to-morrow night
(Friday), and on Saturday Bland Holt steps into
the breach with the frantic story of “ The Great
Rescue. Meantime the Andersonians are treat-
ing the populace to the stormy history of “Gipsy
.J ack. This play, apart from Bert Bailey and the
rather numerous corpses, is fairly orderly and
orthodox. Even the villain’s early passion has
the blessing of the Church. As for Jack
himself, he is the perfectly legitimate off-
spring of a titled millionaire, and, when
‘V s P? ren t is suddenly extinguished, he sweeps into
the title and estates. The change from the gipsy
to the gent is, however, no surprise. One expects
it, because Roy Redgrave is inclined to give the
brown vagrant the social assets of a duke. It were
as it he had some premonition of his approaching
rise, and had been getting liis speech and manners
ready for it. But Redgrave plays pleasingly all
the same, and is showing himself an actor who is
arousing in this paper something like respect.
Beyond Redgrave there is nothing to excite ardor,
unless it be the corpses. Dunbar is futile as a
v . aln * Duggan is quite himself as another
miscreant; while the comic relief is merely that
and nothing more. Miss Olive Wilton shows a
httle improvement in a part that is bright in
itself, while Miss Daisy Scudamore forces the
mournful conclusion that she is a managerial
in lstalve.
** * *
„ Turn long-talked-of Melba concerts at the
Exhibition Building are to transpire on the
loth and 23rd inst. Under the dome of that
extensive edifice Melba is to sing, with full
orchestral accompaniment; also the Melb.
Jrhilharmoriie Society will contribute its chorus
to the concert. It is understood that these
two appearances Will be “farewells”; and. in
the interests of the multitude who can’t afford
to take their musical pleasures expensively, the
price of admission has been filed down to half a
crown. The plan for the ss. reserved seats, and
the still more reserved ones at half a guinea, is
now open at Allan’s.
** * *
Owing to the weather and. other causes,
two newly-imported ladies who were billed for
Saturday, at the Opera House, could not appear
before Monday or Tuesday of this week, so The
Bulletin went to press without them, so to
speak. One of these belated strangers is Bertha
Stuart, who voiialises in braw Scottish characters
and looks bonnie on her picture postcards. The
other is Dolly Harmer, comedienne. With Bertha
added to it, the Rickards programme
will be a long and crowded document.
At Melbourne Athenaeum, Tait’s pro-
gramme is inviting the attention of the amorous.
I his week there are sundry love stories, varying
m pace from a funeral crawl to a motor rush,
ilie programme also introduces “Mulligan’s
Waterloo,'’ a picture of a shindy, as well as flickers
or Caserta Park, Italy,” and the recent orgy of
aviation at Rheims. By the way. this is the last
week of I ait s entertainment at the above address.
JNext Saturday it resumes its summer quarters at
the Glaciarium, which has enjoyed alterations too
numerous to describe.
** * *
The latest' attraction at West’s building
Melbourne, is “The Tower of Nesle,” a drama
about a lady of elastic virtue. Apparently she
never resents any gentlemanly intrusion oh hew
privacy ; but when the supply of gentlemen tends
to exceed a rather large demand, she thins it
down by tipping the surplus into a river. West’s
programme also includes pictures of “ The Coast
of Naples ’ and “ Tribute Riee in China,” as well
as the usual shrieks. Also there is a splendidly-
f’nted " ie ® an^s of the River Ganges,”
which is anyhow a change from the sober immacu-
lateness of modern Melbourne.
** * *
Adelaide amusements have suddenly-
slumped to a midsummer scale. One rink has
m oSe , d ’, and the othei ' is getting thoughtful. The
livoli has fallen back on the inevitable picture-
show, and so has the Royal, prices being violently
readjusted to suit. This .recalls old days in
Glasgow, when the tariff was always nicely regu-
lated by the magnitude of the visiting “star”;
and a departing patron would be heard appraising
the merits of the show: “Eh rnon! He’s no’
bad; but hairdly a saxpenny Hamlet!” The
Empire is doing good business with a well-balanced
variety co., of which the marionettes give the
most novel turn ; and there is a wealth of really
good oratorio performance these times. Adelaide
is a whale on oratorios.
Those persons who think that “a man
like Johnson ” must always be imported to teach
Australians how to do things might consider the
experience of James Dixon, Australian manu-
facturer of O.T; punch. Dixon lately extended
his business to the Cold Country, but he has had
no luck so far because he can’t get the bottles
made there. The larger British manufacturers
won t undertake to supply him with the fluted-
necked vessels he requires because they haven’t
been in the habit of making bottles like that, and
the smaller manufacturers can’t supply them
in the white glass he wants. So he had, in the
end, to go to Germany, which will make whatever
its customer wants and will pay for.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Victoria’s Chief Justice Madden wrote a letter of ful-
some praise to Oscar Asche re his production of “Julius
Caesar m recital form at Melbourne Town Hall. He wot
the just reward of his indiscreet gush in that the epistle
was published as an advt. of a second recital to be -iven
hereafter when the company returns to Melbourne.
hven Madden s complacency must have been disturbed as
he lead the tail end of his testimonial in cold type. This
vvas where he poured the melted butter on Mrs. Asche •
There were two faults. One, that you play so -rand
and educational a piece once only ; the other, that Portia
came into our view but for so few delightful moments.
lor this briefness Shakspeare and misfortune are of
course, accountable ; but what was afforded us of Cato’s
daughter came like God’s -race to beautify a troubled
world, whose nobilities, perplexities and griefs you so
gloriously brought home to us.” The Lord only knows
how misfortune came to be in any way accountable for
the composition of Shakspeare’s piece. Was it a mis-
fortune to Madden that Oscar Asche didn’t get the part
or Portia written up ”to greater prominence?
NONE SO
BLIND AS
THEM THAT WON’T.
“ We had no idea you had such a country,” he told a
n?XT n u ar,l '; e ° f h he " You have sonle magnificent
pa, k lands alony the line We were surprised to see
such hills and valleys. We thought we should see nothing
but wide prairie lands.... I can’t, quite understand why
the Laboi party here has such an objection to immigra-
\ ou m, ! sr , h «e more people in such a place as
this. —lmperial visitor from’Ome via Sydney Express.
My ! Wot lovely scenery—just like ’Ome !
It was significant of the solid Shakspearian character of
the uppei must present on the Asches’ last night at Mel-
bourne ltoyal that most of the carriages in waiting on
both sides of the street were roomy broughams with a
®; ee h k ' . pa ' r between the shafts of each.' On the first
night of the season all the private motors in the city and
ThoT^“^ n ‘ V ta ?'- cabB . we re lined up at closing time,
the Royal was the rendezvous of the smartest. On the
last night gilded conservatism supplied the bulk
-t oney l }aCrona «' e - As for the “ unreserved ”
crowd, it was a gathering of enthusiasts, who
had come to witness the valedictory ceremony and
hear Oscar Asche thank them for being there
Nobody seemed to think of leaving until the manager had
j“ ad . e *' 1S Ilttle speech. The curtain-raising business was
*°' ked novel llnes - The first draw revealed Touch-
stone and Audrey standing on the centre of .the stave
The next showed Silvius and Phoebe ; and so the company
were ticked off in twos and threes (old Adam, who was
!! wi fc h the ( Duke - Retting a specially warm
hand ) until Oscar Ascne and Lily Bra.vton appeared
together. But even he and she coupled didn’t get as loud
a receptmn as was given to Him by himself. The fact
that the athletic son of the soil embodies the spirit of the
show was fully recognised. His speech was effective
although he forgot to waste ariy thanks on the press
His manner of speaking was, of the man, manly. He
said just about all that was necessary, without putting
applaud” * a t 0 “ 6t “ Punctuated by bursts ot
“ N.” : Oscar Asehe’s father kept the Union Club Hotel
on the corner of Collins and Market streets, Melbourne’
This was formerly the Shakspeare Hotel, and before that
was lawkner’s Hotel, built on the site of the first hut
in Melbourne. Under Fawkner it was the second home
Of the Melbourne Club, moved from the Lamb Inn
farther west. Asche, senior, was landlord when the
brothers Redmond arrived, about 20 years a«o There
was an absurd outbreak of “loyalty.” The Mayor refused
blm f lond i S the Town Hall, wherefore Nick Fitzgerald
laid the foundation of the Hibernian Hall, which became
Dowie s Zion, then Tom Mann’s sounding-board and is
now the Guild Hall. Merizies’, Scott’s and the Port
Phillip, as leading hostelries, refused to take the Red
monds in. Tney went to Asche’s Union Club. Then
arose another difficulty. Duncan Gillies put his le«-s
to go r if h t e he Pfcd any T Asche ’ s - He said he would have
to go If the Redmonds put up there. “ Well «- 0 ” said
™.too issssa? « «A»oh,'.„u.“g
no f- ‘ “ T the n °tices of the late John Brunton I have
rip. _ p- ly niention of the fact that he worked with
Svdnet R r"°l the P al 'ny days of Her Majesty’s,
thp Rp„ / Rr ,'A n f on s worlj 'n Rignold’s fine production of
has alwiw's^t 6 ” Biblical P lav > .“Joseph of Canaan,”
to ]pn.o'o.' StUC p niy mind, it is a notable omission
for he v? rfc u 0f the ate scenic artist’s career a blank ;
tor he was at his best about that period.
9 i r. c i us > wh 'ch returns to Melbourne on Caul-
i new -irr after a two years’ absence, has discovered
limrhero TK ’ somewh .at in the nature of the Howard
s7vl nr S H i .r e i, ne^ omer ' s a plain * nil varnished Cockney,
rhe ifee llnS rr f Datas ‘ Be doesn’t walk or bound into
cne arena. He pets there with a hop, skip and jump in
garments, and is introduced to the audience
rnrec oombastic manager” as a human Dictionary of
the a ! ldlence takes him seriously, and pelts
.rneri ! ih loot's, the twangful Cockney is a very
evnet I™' He sta,ld 3 prepared to give the
or snorHn 6 °h' any " oCable evenc in political, social
history-ancient or modern. Battles, fires,
the men P r»1 Ze r fl hi h s S ’ ho, ' s^ races . etc., are calendared on
the mental tablets ot Datas. His real name is John
flr’h ' d memorising was inherited, he says,
h? fr.l =he and B' ra 3dfather had it, but never developed
*? r sbo '' , ’ l ? an ' purposes. He was a coalminer when he
sheLiT thl n syme ”■ eight years ago. Armed with a
answere,) "if l^ ed ,°f t 0 th ? board s at a music-hall, and
ansue.ed all the date questions the audience could think
of since when he has earned good wages by the sweat of
his figures. In addition to Bottle, alias Datas, the Wirths
hai e engaged the Franz Family of acrobats and strong
ioiic tor their forthcoming season in Melbourne. The
ranz aniily was a star turn at Rickards’ some years
a o, and the strongest lady member of the troupe is
remembered with awe. F
George Willoughby, fatter than ever, will be back in
Austraha next January, with “ The Woman in the Case,”
a powerful melodrama of the better sort.
Nance O Neil has just made her first appearance on the
aimiiltanpff' 6 1" ‘ En « land ' I . rene Franklin, who appeared
simultaneously, represents in rather extravagant style a
quick-lunch waitress and a “red-haired howling kiddie ” •
but Nance condescends to nothing more frivolous than
the sleep-walking scene of Lady Macbeth.
Some English stage items of Australian interest. Dolly
S™;, W Hi°pf S . P ayinB: lead in “ Tbe Ga -V Gordons ’’ with
Seymour Hicks touring company, is said to have a very
rtainty style, and to. be “improved wonderfully” in ail
respects. Her sister Eileen is in the chorus'of “The
Waltz Dream touring co., and is understudy for one of
nfihT S 'r her chance Of making a success in
e .. b, *f London show's is still a remote one, whereas
sistei Dolly seems likely to happen very soon as a
- i postfccard ”. subject. Another Australian-
born girl who promises to be the “Marie Lohr”
of musical comedy is Cecily Courtneidge. She has
atel.v been deputising for beauteous Phyllis Dare
in rhe Arcadians ”at the Shaftesbury (London), where
a critical informant found her very clever and charming
."A, 1 ® 4 arC ; Courtneidge’s daughter is more decidedly
Anglo-Austrahan than young Marie Lohr. She w'as born
out here 16 years ago, when her parents were members
ofMusg oves Gaiety co., and she made her stage dbbut
as Peastdossom in “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” at
Pi’inoess’s, what time Courtneidge came out
Mus"rove a,K ° n aho lda - v tn P and staged the show for
Mabelle Morgan, the Melbourne girl with the-ah—
splendid figure, which J.O.W. stuffed into the principal
boy s tights during one panto season, is nowadays in the
a lls, and at latest was the turn at the Bel-
fast Empire, in Ireland. She was appearing in a
musical and comedy scena,” assisted by Avalon Collat'd
and W. he Brun, both well known in Australia. “ Miss
Morgan s success in this country is guaranteed, and a bi«-
future awmts her,” one critic wrote after a first look at
the beauteous creature. From the Empire the scena was
going on to Dublin, and then to Shepherd’s Bush, London.
The brass band at West’s Pictures has a fine library of
high-ciass music, which belonged of yore to the late
Alberto Zelman. Each set contains the parts for 40
instruments, and the whole collection represents everv-
thmg classical ”in brass band music published by one of
tne big London firms during a series of years. Old
Zelman, who was a sincere artist, used to order all the
good stuff for his Flemington lawn band, but after a
while it was voted insufficiently light and giddy for the
racegoing public, so it gave place to the latest popular
airs. At West s a classical piece can often be fitted to the
bill as, for instance, when the Mozart pictures are
accompanied by a Mozartian selection.
“ D -” : °.”e of the most baffling thingsin local stagedom
these days is the persistent rottenness of the roller skat-
ZwnLu t , a,nB s i " i t ' e “ Jack and Jdl ” pantomime,
livery ni„ht for about six months the charming- and alert
young women of this co. have been roller-skating for a
fixed time in the public view. I saw them when they
began, and noted that they were indifferent hands at the
game Withal I concluded that they would improve. A
month later I considered them again. They were no
better. They still stalked frantically about, and
agitated their arms for balancing purposes, and
j 7 e L lnlo „ the . Wln «' 3 - arld fell to the boards,
and did all the other things that embryo
skaters are wont to do. The other night I considered
their gyrations once more. If possible, they were worse
the majority of them, than of old. A fair number might!
ne appearance of things, have just mounted rollers
What is the reason for this? The average small boy or
girl will, with a little daily practice, do any old thin on
skates within a month. The trained coryphee should be
ab!e to at least equal that record. By her showing at the
KoyaJ, she has about as much gift for the art of careerino-
round on wheels as a hen has for natation-. . °
Times have changed since Melba—as Nellie Mitchell
f" d ’ at er as Mrs. Armstrong-warbled to small audiences
in Melbouine. One night lately the big Masonic Hall
was too small to hold a crowd that had been attracted by
the promise of three new voices of remarkable merit
They were introduced ”by H. F. Smith, of Glen’s and
one of them—Miss Gertrude Davies—was called a “ pheno-
menalmezzo m the advt. They were all equally- unin-
teresting and commonplace, but the light soprano of the
P'asjess raw in her vocalism than the contralto
and the phenomenal mezzo.” The fact that scores of
people had to be turned away from the doors was in-
teresting, however. It seemed that the concert had been
boosted quite differently from the Castles boom of ten
years ago. That was a matter, in the first instance, of
par f’ ar| d active missionary canvassing for the
sale of tickets for a Town Hall concert at ordinary con-
cert prices. This was mainly a florist’s shop boom. The
tickets were offered at the modest price of Is. or 2s for
a reserved seat, and the result was a crowd of people who
for the most part, were neither very friendly nor at all
critical, but listened with indifference to the indifferent
performance. All the same, had there been a strikingly
fine voice among the three d4butantes, all The
essentials for a boom had been provided by the
management Evidently, there is a way of ensuring an
extensive public hearing for a new singer in Melbourne—
p?,V ab ® ar ‘ n »„ fl ' o, n People who have paid for admission.
Thoni' 6 Star ’ ° r . stars,” must be new and mysterious.
There are some capital local artists, singers and instru-
mentalists, who would be delighted to give an occasional
concert in the Masonic Hall if they could get, sav £BO
into it; but because theirability was originally proved in'an
unpretentious way they are not possible subjects for even
a snuiiny boom.
It is not generally known to persons who say that Aus-
tralia has produced no dramatist of any fame that the
p , . Plot , and Passion, which used to be a favorite
stock piece m Henry Neil Warner’s time—the middle of
last century—was written by a Sydney native, John Lang
barrister-at-law. It ran for 100 nights at the Princess
Theatre, London. Lang, who was also the author of
several other dramas distinguished himself in the Indian
Law Courts, especially in the celebrated case of Juttee
Parsand, about the year 1850.
‘‘ E-M-K-”: For years Maoriland was the happy hunting
ground of the manager, great and small, but Ward’s
country has suddenly hung out tbe sign “ Keep Off the
Financial Crass. Consequently there is talk of a con-
manaf®rs > Wlfch the object of excluding these
islands fronv their operations for two years. Clarke
r yn^T h d t l n haVe l already fluked, and small worn
der. ©n the last tour their co. lost money all along the
line. Cinderella also baulked in the middle of her
tour, and Beatty arid his much smaller co. were rushed
oyer to fill in the last five weeks of the “ dates ” booked.
Big-managers have been trying to pass on “ dates,” but
nobody is buying. They think that if M.L. doesn’t get a
first-class show for a couple of years it will come to heel
again ; hence the negotiations before alluded to. Mean-
time numerous small cos. organised in Australia have
become permanent Maorilanders, the track across tc
Australia not being solid enough for walking.
“ Harrison O.”: How few actresses know how to laugh I
They learn to smile, walk the stage, hold the arms, poise
the head, and some of them even learn how to speak Eng-
lish ; but, apparently, very few bother about learning tc
laugh niusically. Yet. it is an accomplishment worth
acquiring. “The laughter of girls is, and ever was,
among the most beautiful sounds on earth,” says De
Quincey, and I may be permitted to state also that the
giggling of tarts was, is, and ever shall be among the most
unlovely sounds. There are at present at least two she-
niununers, well known to Australia, who have acquired
sweet and musical laughs. First Miss Tilda Brune, who
owns a soulful little laugh that ripples like a brook run-
ning through a poem by Keats ; and, second, Miss Grace
Falotta—hers is just an audible smile that forms itself
into a bubble and bursts prettily. But would that neither
of these ladies had ever mastered the art. For the
musical trill is (in both cases) repeated so often (about 37
and 59 times to an act) by the respective trilleresses that
it not only loses its beauty, but begins to annoy the
listener and detracts from the charm of the lady’s per-
formanee. Especially do I wish that some kind friend
would take Miss Palotta on one side and whisper this in
her nice, pearly ear, and afterwards kiss the ear.
Digit”: When the Kolker-Titheradge co. disbanded
and re-formed to play that much-boomed failure, “ An
Englishman’s Home,” interested mummers were surprised
because Sydney Stirling was not in the original cast. Some
mummers were discussing the curious fact that in this
patriotic ” English outburst the leading man’s part was
played by an American (Kolker), the leading woman’s by
an American (Ola J. Humphrey), and the producer was
an American (Priestly Morrison). Stirling joined the
group and someone said, “ Sydney, I hear you are not in
‘An Englishman’s Home’?” “No,” said Sydney, dis-
gustedly ; “ I’m too damned English ! ”
“ Locust ” : It makes me tireder than usual to see the
Tait s advt. of Amy Castles which proclaims her the
‘Australian Jenny Lind.” This business is so distinctly
Dan O’Connorish that it ought to be put down with the
strong pen of the Australian press. When our only Dan
(who is now the husband of a Portuguese countess—
excuse the digression) was first introduced to your
Hop,” he exclaimed, shaking the artist’s hand warmly
Mr. Hopkins, you’re the Tietjens of caricature.” Few
persons alive to-day can say whether our Amy is at all
like what Jenny Lind was, any more than they 7 can say
™ memory whether she resembles Alexander the Great.
And if she is like Mrs. Lind, we have the testimony of
Melb t s biographer or biographess. in this month’s Lonk
Hand, that “ Jenny Lind’s repertoire was so limited as to
supply that rare singer with a strong argument in favor
of her premature retirement from the operatic stage.”
M.v opinion is that the man who writes the Taits’ advts
is the Barnuin and Bailey of Australia.
“Old Bather,” from Melbourne :
Some writers in Tiie Bulletin, re the trouble about
Kenney s Baths at St. Kilda, have omitted to mention that
the members of the Foreshore Committee, who are seem-
ingly inspiring Premier Murray in this matter, were not
empowered to spend £2OOO of the ratepayers’money on
foreshore “improvements” which would deprive' the
ratepayers of their oldest-established swimming bath
The clause under which the old baths are to
be removed without getting a suitable place to re-
move to, was added to the agreement after the
Council had voted the money. It seems that the Council
would now 7 be disposed to do the fair thing by Mr. Ken-
ney, whilst studying the convenience of the public if
Ii! er n ler ¥ ur . ra > r Would refer the question back to it. But
Bummer is bent on leaving Kenney at the mercy of
the horeshore Committee, and the object of those auto-
cratic “ improvers” is to make it impossible for any baths
to be erected where they are most required. As for the
Premier’s specious suggestion that Kenney’s ladies’ baths
can be converted into men’s baths, no efficient alteration
is practicable. What is wanted by a great number of St.
Kilda ratepayers, and by visitors from other parts of
Melbourne, is a new baths to the north of the pier; and
this is what Kenney will supply if he is allowed to. If he
is persistently blocked by the Premier at the instigation
of the J or-shore Committee, a monopoly will be practi-
ce */. granted to the influential St. Kilda Baths Co., which
gill in due course, no doubt, get permission to enlarge its
present structure.
“Jean Sibi ”: Some people may have failed
to notice it, but I have had my eye on the fact.
~9p • 0c ,,, has only one argument. He shouts
-tripe . . It is his alpha and ouiega, his answer
to everything, his last oratorical stronghold , He
just bellows “Cow’s Stomach!” To the most
closely-reasoned logic of the Democratic party his
best reply is “Bull’s Innaids!” When there is
nothing else to be said he mentions this plain old
food to his opponent. He doesn’t say “ Tripe
and Onions,” but just “Tripe.” He overlooks
the onions. Cook’s constant crying out of a six-
penny plate of victuals suggests mental barren-
ness. .A. more alert man would vary things at
times by saying “ Pigs’ Feet ! ” But Cook never
says -Pigs 1 eet ! I hat would call for some
originality, and he has none.
Westralia is considering its pubs and what
todowith them, and, as usual, finds it has about
di Bl different opinions on the subject. The Moore
Oovernment has tried to crowd a trifle of each of
the 3781 opinions into a Bill; but as the l-37815t
part of an opinion is scarcely recognisable when
its owner sees it, the new Licensing Bill is getting
a rather had time. On the whole, it is getting a
worse time from Cold Tea than from the
. Bump, chiefly because it hangs up
prohibition for 10 years, during which period a
fund is to be provided in the Victorian manner
for the compensation of stray pubs that may be
knocked out when some district or other votes for
reduction. Cold Tea gets a lot to go on with ; for
it will be a tough matter to get any new pub
established in the future, and it won’t be tre-
mendously difficult to get the present number
reduced in some districts. Therefore, as popula-
tion increases, the quantity of drinking facilities
for every 100 or 1000 people will get less all the
time. But Cold Tea cries with a loud and bitter
voice that it wants the right to biff out every
dnnkery at onOe. Possibly it doesn’t want to
wait ten years because it is afraid it may itself be
drinking by that time.
Recreation is often Wisdom’s best ally.
And that the pleasures of the Cup—the Melbourne
Cup, for instance may be well modulated with *
discretuni that spirit of moderation, D.C.L.
Whisky, should take a leading part in the pro-
ceedings. The wisdom which assists to defeat the
machinations of Ikey Mo dwells in the amber
smiles of D.C.L.*
CARELESS CERBERUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Cattletown, in ’92,
The All Star Actors came to play.
Their leader was an artist who
Had been the Garrick of his day.
What day it was he flourished so
No living creature seemed to know.
His name was Ernest Villineuve,
A lank, long 1 man, with snaky locks,
Just like the tragic player you’ve
Enjoyed in “ Hop.’s” absurdest blocks.
The play was in a common groove—
“ The Blood-Stained Key,” by Villineuve.
This great man did not play for pelf ;
He dearly loved to tear a part,
And oft declared that for himself
He needed but his bread and Art—
Twas said he’d thrill the natives through
At Cattletown in ’92.
Judge our surprise when late that night
He rushed the bar, with storm-tossed hair,
And shrieking like a Bedlamite,
Fell on a stranger drinking there.
He beat and kicked that stranger sore,
And left him weeping on the floor.
“ He was doorkeeper, gentlemen,
Up at my show, this villain here ;
He left his post at ten to ten
To soak his perjured soul in beer—
You dog ! ” (For fight again he shaped.)
“My audience —it has escaped ! ”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


PETER PAN COLLARS
at the FRENCH GLOVE HOUSE
Very cool and most becoming- to young faces
are these collars. We have a splendid assort-
ment of neckwear of all kinds, always the
newest and smartest, imported direct from
Loudon and Paris.
GUIPURE LACE PETER PAN COLLARS, 1/11J, 2/6,
2/9, 2/11J, 3/11, 5/11, 6/11.
IN HONITON LACE, 2/11, 5/11 and 6/6.
IN ORIENTAL LACE, 4/11, 5/11.
IN EMBROIDERY, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9 to 5/11.
IN IMITATION IRISH CROCHET, 2/9.
Our Spring Catalogue is ready—send for one.
AXTENS & CO.,
(La Maison
Parisienne),
24-30 The Strand, Sydney
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Right-Priced Rings
of New Design.
HERE are a few of our newest rings. They represent all
that is best and most up-to-date in quality jewellery
ware. They’re well made, well finished, high-grade,
and priced in our inimitable money-saving way.
In short, they’re just the kind of rings one wants, at
prices which must appeal to every wise shopper.
This charming design,
handsomely set and
beautifully finished, £lO.
The H. & K. 18ct. Gold
Wedding Ring, 20/- ;
heavier, 30/- and 40/-
Catalogue and All Orders Post Free.
18ct. Gold all Dia-
mond Marquise Ring-,
beautifully st o n ed,
fine finish, £l5.
Handsome ISct. Gold
Diamond Cluster
Ring, £l3/10/-
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Solid 18et. Gold Dress
or Engagement Ring,
3 lustrous diamonds,
£lO.
aaaa
can
Choice 18ct. Gold 3
Diamond Ring, 50/-
This beautiful Diamond
Dress or Engagement
Ring, £7/10/- Smaller
Stones, £5/5/-
Watchmakers,
Jewellers, Opticians,
98 King Street, Sydney.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A case which came up, the other day,
before Read Murphy, a Victorian P.M., shows
that a Federal system of pensions is the right
thing, and that State pensions don’t and can’t
properly fill the bill. Read Murphy’s visitor was
a miner, under 40 years of age, who applied for
an old-age pension on the ground that he was
worn-out 20 years before his time. He was a
Victorian who went to Broken Hill, worked
underground there, got leaded, and returned to
the Victorian mines, where, in his weak state, he
soon contracted “miners’ complaint.” Under
any State pension law he would almost certainly
be fired out on account of his wanderings ; but to
the Federal pension law it fortunately doesn’t
matter whether a man has worked all his time on
one side of the Murray or half his time on one
side and half on the other.
TOO MUCH REALISM.
THE COMEDY MAN : “ What do you think of that
hit of business in the third act where Gonzalo
throws beer into Ferdinand's fare ?”
THE HEAVY VILLAIN: "Think! Why , I think
that when a manager insists upon using real
beer its carrying realism too far. There
are emotions , sir, that are too sacred to be
trifled with."
South Aus. feels doubtful over the old-age
pensions. Either it lias a very small proportion
of indigent veterans or else its special magistrates
have been more particular than the magistrates of
the other States in their scrutiny of claims. With
the total cost of pensions at £1,251,760 yearly, as
recently stated, S. Australia’s share should be
£125,176 ; but in reality it is only £40,000 (1600
pensioners). On a population basis there should
be a third as many pensioners in S. Aus.
as in Victoria; but, as as a matter of
fact, there are only a ninth as many.
Just at present, therefore, S. Aus. doesn’t know
whether to stick out its lip and howl that it is a
wronged State, or to stick out its chest and make
a joyful noise to the effect that it is a rich State
where everybody can make money, and where the
people are so prudent that nearly all of them
hang on to enough to see them through their
old age.
S. Aus. has got in first with a whole cata-
logue of things, and it looks as though it will get
in first, so far as the Commonwealth is concerned,
with an electric railway. The line that is likely
to be converted is one of the jokes of the con-
tinent. It runs between Adelaide and Glenelg—
which is Adelaide’s handiest seaside place—and
the engine drags the train for over half a mile
through the principal street at either end, tolling
a doleful bell as it pushes its dirty, dusty way
along. The total distance is about seven miles,
Engineer Goodman, of the Adelaide Tramway
Trust, reckons that the whole job of electrifica-
tion Will cost £201,000, and he sees money in
it at the price. Like the traffic to most seaside
resorts, this to Glenelg is extraordinarily erratic j
and the expert idea is that an electric service is
the best fitted for a track of that kind. Besides,
the joke of having a train tolling its way down the
middle of the principal street of the city will have
to be ended some day. The Government has
taken Goodman’s report into prayerful considera-
tion ; and Adelaide has already made Up its mind
that there is only one thing to be done with the
matter,
* * * *
The Oldest Inhabitant writes
Apropos St. George’s Hail, Melbourne (B. 23/9/’O9). The
Hall was not always given up to “ varieties” ; one night,
at all events, it was grave and serious. It was the evening
of the day on which the remains of Burke and Wills, the
explorers, had been laid in the Melbourne General
Cemetery. A public meeting was held under the auspices
of the Royal Society, which had “ managed” the expedi-
tion. Governor Henry Barkley was in the chair. Barkley
was an orator, and his speech on the heroism of the
leaders was in his best style. “We have borne them
through the streets of Melbourne, and we have left them
alone in their glory,” he said. Barkley was popular and was
heard in silence. When Chief-Justice W. F. Stawell,
who was chairman of the Exploration Committee, arose,
the meeting woke up and cursed. The committee was
accused of mismanagement, though it is difficult to see
how even the best possible management in Melbourne
would have kept these painfully amateur explorers
out of the grave. Stawell faced the audience
courageously, retorted with biting epithets, and
managed at least to make himself heard when
he moved a resolution of regret. The next speaker
fared even worse. It was Dr. John Macadam, a deeply
scientific man with long hair. He was secretary to the
committee, and the multitude rose and blithered at him.
For an hour he held his own, and at. the end of that time
the crowd was partly won over and partly worn out. Next
arose Landells who had brought the expedition’s camels
from India. He should have been second in command,
but he couldn’t get on with Burke, and resigned. It was
understood that Landells proposed to denounce
the committee with great force. Barkley sup-
pressed him before he got going, and his grievance
remains unexpounded to this day. It was never very
clear why the meeting was held, for Burke and Wills were
obviously dead, and nothing which could be said was
calculated either to make them less dead or to cast any
new light on their passing out. Still, for that one night
St. George’s Hall quitted the variety business and tried to.
put on a grave and reverend aspect.
Melbourne’s new shoddy railway station
is becoming a nightmare. Though not yet
finished it is already admitted that it isn’t large
enough for its purpose, and it is difficult to see
how it can be extended any further without falling
into the river. And the estimate which was made
at the middle of things was about double the one
that was made at the beginning of things; while
the one made towards the end of things beats the
middle one out of sight. People thought the sum-
mit was reached when the figure was fixed at
£440,000, but presently Tait plucked the burning
cigar from his countenance and mentioned another
£50,000. Later he dragged his face off the sooth-
ing weed and said the excess would be £65,232.
Now he has again wrenched the tobacco off his.
visage and spoken of £74,156. The probable result,
will be a patchwork station started on one plan and
finished on six others —a superannuated place that,
is born out of date.
* * • ■*
The approach of Mars to the earth and
one or two other things have started astronomers
on jags of speculation, and there’s no jimjammer
like the astronomer when he gets fairly started.
The cheerful reflection that the earth may be
finished by the collision of the sun with one of the
visible stars has the horror taken out of it by the
announcement that the sun would take 80,000
years, at its present rate of travel, to arrive at the
nearest possible point of smash. The average
person refuses to get alarmed over a bump that
can only happen when his tombstone has crumbled
back to dust. Another alleged source of trouble
is the dark planet and the dead sun. Astronomers
—who are the policemen and undertakers of the
sky—believe there are a lot of these knocking
about Space without any visible means of support.
They say that one of the dead suns might rush
into the sun and produce a blaze that would re-
duce the earth to cinders in a second or two, and 1
make flaming gas of the whole solar system. That
possibility isn’t even going to worry the fire
brigade ; its hose, its helmet, and its engine
would be cinders and gas along with the
rest of creation ; and, anyhow, all the
water would be gone, and the brigade wasn’t
hired to hose the solar system. The alleged dark
star has some original points about it. It is-
stated that if one approached the earth, its attrac-
tion would uplift and tear away great areas of the
earth’s crust. Then the squatter’s grazing lease
and the closer settlement block would rise bodily
with the ploughs, sheep, men, fences and home-
steads still on them, and fly like mud from the
squatter’s motor wheel for millions of miles into
Space. The squatter would still be gibbering
about Socialism when he and his estate hit the
star. In the event of the dark star going for the.
sun instead of the earth, it is said that the sun
would see it coming, and would shoot out arms of
flame millions of miles long to embrace it or keep
it off, or something. Or if it just charged the.
solar system on general principles it is thought
it might produce such an alteration in
the orbits of the planets as to make them dizzy.
They would then probably totter about anyhow
till they fell into the sun —that being the only
pub open for business. But the most likely finish
is a long, long freeze. The sun is not what it
was when The Bulletin's Oldest Inhabitant was
a boy ; it is slowly dying down, and the day will
come when there won’t be sufficient heat in it to
boil a billy. By that time the last Peary will be
hurling insults across the ice at the last Coolc
somewhere in the neighborhood of Ceylon. It is
a dreary prospect, and it would sour To-Day s
rejoicings and embitter the beer but for the fact
that it is about 982,000,000.000 years off. It is, in
fact, Posterity’s trouble—like the Public Debt.
QUITE A
COINCIDENCE.
MRS. GUBBINS (to affluent lady engaged in osten-
tatious charity): “And how's your daughter,
mum?”
L ADY: “ Oh, she’s corning out next week."
MRS. GUBBINS: “Good lor', mum, how peculiar!
So’s my old man."
Parson Depledge-Sykes, of Adelaide, lately
told his congregation that the White Australia
policy is “ alien to the missionary spirit.” Aus-
tralia knows all about the missionary spirit. It
is the drop of whisky that the missionary gives to
the colored girl to revive her after he has finished
flogging her with the sting-ray’s tail. Come to
think of it, however, there is no record that the
Rev. Nicholas Hey had even the humanity to
give the fainting girl a little missionary spirit
after he had flogged her.
RUBBING IT IN.
FIRST OFFICER: “The chief called me a long-
cared ass!”
SECOND OFFICER : "Ha! Ha! Mg hoy , he had
you there. All asses have long ears.”
“Canopus”; Among the most interest-
ing specimens in the Sj'dney Museum are the
attendants (Sedcnt'iritmf, Kit-
sutus). On account of their in-
telligence, which is in excess
of some of the larger stuffed
animals, the attendants are
trained to wait upon them.
This intelligence, however,
is by no means remarkable,
and should not be over-
rated, for, strange as it may
seem. Sedentariens, although
in attendance on the Other
stuffed animals from the
moment of its Capture, tlever
becomes familiar with their
habits and lUrkitlg places,
and when questioned as
to the exact WherCUbohts
of the OrnithocaetUs or
the piebald alligator, it
Will invariably try to
palm off the sea serpent
nr a tadpole oil the un-
wary seeker. Like the
Sydney Art Gallery
attendant, ( Letkdrrjieus
SilSpibiosus), a closely
allied species, Seden-
tariens is wonderfully
tame. Its chief duties
consist in seeing that
the other stuffed
animals do not touch
anybody or behave
in an insulting
manner, and in
pointing out the
exit to those who
have been blind
from birth. One
of the stuffed
rhinoceri, which
hates to be kept
waiting, has an
attendant all
to itself, and
is also sup-
plied with a
large dinner
bell in case
it should Want
to know the
time or anything
while its handmaid
is asleep^
“ Lex ” writes
The official text of the Sam Hordern will didn’t conflict
worth mentioning with the statements that had been rife
in the city regarding it during the past, month. Mrs.
Hordern, sen., gets £2400 a year (payable in monthly
instalments of £200), and so do each of the daughters
barring Mrs. Watson, wife of the young man who carried
the British flag into Ladysmith, or Govetts Leap, or
Manly, or some such spot. Mrs. Watson only gets £-100
per annum. Retford Hall goes to Mrs. Hordern, together
with £2O a week for the upkeep of it. She mustn t let,
lease or sell it, or be absent from it for more than two years
atany one time. If the lady re-marries she loses both the
Hall and the income, though the trustees may make
provision for her at their discretion. The rest of the
property, subject to these and a few other minor charges,
o-oes to the sons in equal shares—that is to say the
income does. The real estate is tied up so that it may
not be converted till the testator’s last surviving child
shall have attained the age of 21 years Young Sam
gets £5OOO a year as manager of the Brickfield Hill estab-
lishment, and is by all accounts worth the money. He
knows the soft-goods business from A to Z. Nothing is
left to charity. Decensed gave lavishty in this direction
during his lifetime. Considering that the Hordern estate
comprises, in addition to the mammoth shop, city
propertv of a value at least equal to the value of the shop
and manufactory, that most of it is yearly rising in value
and t hat insomuch as the Law’s fetters can avail none of it
is goinv to be squandered during at least a quarter of a
century, the ultimate owner or owners of it should be
worth a tidy pot of money. In fact, he or they should
be worth one of the tidiest pots of the loathly dross on
the face of the earth. The feature of the will is that it
has beeii devised so that the grandson or grandsons of
the name of Hordern shall get the corpus. The sons
never will; they onlv enjoy the income arising from it,
and the wives'and daughters and daughters’ children
have life interests merely, and comparatively small ones
at that. There is no doubt, if the law against perpetuity
hadn’t stepped in, that the testator would have tied his
property up for a good many generations longer.
* ' * * *
A curious stile took place in Adelaide the
other day. The weird horse-trams, which South
Australians jogged around in until the late Labor-
Premier Price stepped in and bought out the
Private anti-Enterprise cos. on behalf of the
municipal councils, were put up to auction, and
some of them realised as much as £lO. One gaudy
caravan had been painted and otherwise de-
spoiled of its grimy look to show what wonderful
pieces of furniture they could be turned into; but
the Trust could only rake in £l5 even for that
exhibition niece. Most of them were knocked
down at between £5 and £lO, though one dis-
mantled veteran— minus forepeak, rudder, boom,
and various other trifles—changed hands at half
a sovereign, while nearly a dozen couldn’t find
buyers at any price at all. . The buyers of the 30-
odd that were sold have a vague notion of con-
verting them into wash-hotlSes, bedrooms, stables,
dog-kennels or something; but it is more than
likely that a good many of them will come in
handy for kindling the kitchen fire. In selling
them the Tramways Trust included the right/to
run the cars over its lines to the nearest point to
the buyers’ back-yards ; and the result has been
a small but enthusiastic band of cheerful idiots
dragging horse-cars home by the tail in the early
hours of the morning.
A VISION OF JUDGMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Peary has left it ajar,
The gate of the North,
And the light from a region afar
Conies quivering- forth.
Cook has fingered the hinge
Of the shutter of snow,
And let in a liberal tinge
Of Aurora’s glow.
Till the sober grey region of men
Is flooded with light,
And sober —or drunken—those men
Rise up in the night,
Rise up in pyjamas to gaze
At what has befell
To think ’tis the end of their days—
The beginning of Hell.
Till sudden they sneeze in the air,
The young and the old :
And so stop abrupt in their prayer,
“’Tisn’t Hell; it’s too cold.
VICTORIA.
ALPENSTOCK.


A Woman’s Vote—Result
When our Australian women exercise the
franchise, it is a foregone conclusion that
the women’s vote will be on the side of
progress quality and not quantity of mem-
bers. We see it in everyday life—there
are three women to-day using Sunlight
Soap for laundry and housework to one
using any other soap in the world. Why?
Because women quickly recognise quality,
and the progress effected by the Sunlight
way of washing described on the cardbox of
every tablet. Try Sunlight Soap next wash
day and you will vote there is nothing better.
TO be, or not to be ; that is
the question. Whether
’tis better to go about with
hull, dirty boots, or have a
shine on them that will re-
flect credit on you. When you
use CHERRY BLOSSOM
BOOT POLISH you secure a
beautifully bright and lasting
shine that will please you.
Leading dealers sell large
tins at 3d. and 6d. Write to us
if you cannot get supplied.
SW.FT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
1
I till
PEAPES’ SPECIALTY IN
LIGHT UNDERWEAR.
————■—————— —
WE have had made for us a special line of Unshrink-
able Mottled Blue Underwear in summer
texture, which carries our entire commendation.
Every garment is stamped with the guarantee of
rephicement should shrinking occur. The cutting is on
special lines, giving a neat body fit and an absence of
surplus fabric. The seams are strongly sewn and the
finish excellent.
We have them in all sizes and will send on approval
to any address in Australia.
Prices : SHIRT or PANTS,
Posted 6d. extra.
5/6
each.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.
“ Men’s
Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
An original bit of old Sydney is under the
hammer. By order of the trustees in the estate
of the late J. S. Hanson, 34ft. 4in. fronting-
George-street North, and running through to
Pitt-street, is being offered to the public. In the
days when Sydney Harbor ran up to Bridge-street
the land had a water frontage, and was used for
mooring and landing Government boats. There-
abouts in the early days was the Rum Puncheon
publichouse, kept by .T. S. Hanson, and much
frequented by the shell b.-u-ks of the d i.v.
A REASONABLE REQUEST.
CITIZEN (to waiter): “Can yer give us another fork. This one’s got two prongs and a ’arf,
an’ I get heat for ’arf a dozen peas every lift."
The wreck of the Natal steamer Umhlali,
and the subsequent trouble with the Lascars, re-
calls the case of the Fortunatus, burned in mid-
ocean about two years ago. The Fortunatus was
also Lascar-manned, and the boats were only
loose on the face of the waters for three days;
but even in that short space of time the situation
almost got beyond control, and the niggers were
so near open mutiny that a lady passenger ex-
tracted a promise from one of the white officers
that he would shoot her when the crisis came.
Even without mutiny, the Fortunatus people were
wretchedly equipped for a struggle with the sea.
There wasn’t enough drinking water in the boats,
some of the kegs had never been filled at all, and
some of the water was carried in open buckets,
and was soon made undrinkable by the sea spray.
Also some of the corned beef was mouldy, and
tins supposed to contain food turned out to be
full of pepper and mustard. Cheap black labor
had prepared those boats for the rescue, and
cheap black labor helped to almost fill them when
the fire drove the people from the ship. Black
labor had a great chance to vindicate itself and
prove itself an inexpensive blessing and a boon ;
but it just turned out the usual nightmare.
The Victorian Law authorities seem to
have quietly resumed their iniquitous old prac-
tice of arresting sick and decrepit persons at the
gates of Pentridge gaol, and shoving them back
again for a further spell for having no means of
subsistence. The other morning a young woman
of 23 was discharged in ill-health, whereupon the
Law, which had presumably been told to be in
readiness, charged her as stated, and pushed her
back again for another three months. Doesn’t it
strike Treasurer Watt that this is a foolish way of
getting rid of a surplus? As a hospital Pentridge
comes rather expensive; while, if the young
woman became well and fit in a month or two the
rest of the term will be dead loss all round.
After wearing holes through the sole of
its brains, Christchurch (M.L.) has turned down
a proposal to join itself to the sea by means of a
canal. For years Christchurch has yearned for a
direct outlet to the Pacific. It is true it has a
fairly adequate port half a dozen miles away, at
Lyttelton, but have not Wellington and Auck-
land harbors which admit ocean liners into their
main streets ? So Christchurch set about finding
ways to drown the chortle of its rivals. Com-
mittees and experts were appointed, and elaborate
investigations made. Of course, the committees
and experts disagreed, and the Harbor Board was
torn by conflicting emotions. In the end the whole
scheme was thrown out on the score of cost, and
now Christchurch is busy waiting for something
less expensive to turn up.
“D.M.W.”: The outpouring on “Sweated
Angels” (B. 19/8/’0!l) wakes a loud, responsive
bump in many hearts in this Maoriland of hap-
hazard and undemocratic hospital government.
Nurses work eight hours here in most hospitals,
but an effort is being made to increase the hours
to 12, in order that serious cases may get more
attention. Rats! How can a sleepy, tired,
out-worn girl, however interested in her work,
give 12 hours’ attention to a serious case?
Observe also that this is a white man’s
country, and that the nurses in question
are mostly probationers paid at the rate
of a shilling a day. There is no sugges-
tion of increasing that munificence. One
penny per hour for the hardest, dir-
tiest and noblest work a good, self-sacrificing
woman can tackle !
Most of the recent complaints regarding
Melbourne’s Infectious Diseases Hospital and the
treatment of its compulsory patients come from
citizens of those suburbs which have so far de-
clined to become responsible for the maintenance
of the institution. Melbourne city. Richmond
and a few other municipalities subsidise the insti-
tution, and their citizens are treated free ; but the
majority of the local bodies thought, when the
hospital was set going, to work a point by de-
clining to guarantee their share of its upkeep;
and now they find themselves billed for 7s. 6d.
per day per patient. Of course, they pass the bill
on to the individual; and as the bill mostly
runs to £lO or £2O or £3O, the compulsory and
usually not too wealthy patient kicks, knowing
that patients from other suburbs are not billed at
all. One miserly municipality has for some
months been collecting a shilling a week from a
luckless servant-girl who contracted diphtheria
and a liability of £23 10s. before she knew any-
thing about it. As for P’ran’s recent complaint
that one of its small citizens was accommodated
in one bed with another diphtheritic patient, the
Hospital says that the patients were small and the
bed large, and as there are 60 patients and only 40
beds something had to happen. But instead of
throwing a brick at the hospital the proper thing
would be for those suburbs which won’t do their
duty to take themselves out and carefully aim the
fragment at themselves.
“0.K.” writes concerning a picture with
a past: —
The shrill, tali voic; of Mrs. Grundy, in Melbourne, is
heard protesting against the bare idea of the picture of
“ Chloe ” being exhibited in the bar-room of a pub for the
delectation of its godless patrons. “Chloe,” as most
Bulletin readers know, is a life-size oil painting of a
damsel in the nude, idealic in the grace of her youthful
figure and ivory flesh tint, and beautifully chaste in her
evident unconsciousness that she is giving any offence to
prudery. Six-and-twenty years ago Mrs. Grundy and
her canting spouse protested against the bare idea of
“ Chloe ” figuring on the wall of Melbourne’s National
Gallery. Then her owner, Surgeon Fitzgerald, indig-
nantly removed her from the Gallery to a front room of
his house in Lonsdale-street, and put her against the back
wall of the room, so that passers-by could view her
nakedness through the window (especially in the evening,
when the room was illuminated); and then Mr. and Mrs.
Grundy protested some more. They objected to any dis-
play of “Chloe” within the eyesight of female youth
and “ innocence,” or where she could court the observa-
tion of both sexes at once. All this was on the
ground that Chloe’s unabashed nude,ness might bring a
blush to the cheek of virgin innocence or hard-faced
“propriety.” Now that she is exposed only to the gaze
of unblushing male citizens in a pub, the relentless
purists are still protesting. What would they have? If
artistic studies of female form divine are “improper” in
bar-rooms, dedicated to men only, where, in the name of
reason, would the purists have them placed? None of the
objections raised of yore against “Chloe” in the Public
Gallery apply to the case of “Chloe ” in a public house.
Yet the Grundies are snorting as though they considered
“Chloe’s” last habitation worse than her first. In the
cause of Temperance they suggest that what was for-
merly a dry incentive to evil-thinking is now a direct
encouragement to evil-drinking. Their uneasy virtue is
doubly alarmed at the thought of fallen man enjoying a
long beer and a lewd laugh for threepence. But, as a mat ter
of fact, “Chloe” in the pub breathes an atmosphere of
pure propriety. She is safe from the indecent fault-
finding of the Grundies on the one hand, or the giggles of
salacious “young persons” on the other. In the eyes of
sinners this cold, white figure of artless maidenhood is
utterly devoid of sinfulness, and the comments passed on
the picture amount to scathing satire on the prudery that
drove it from the other public gallery many years ago.
* -K - '*
That tender shepherd, the Rev. Nicholas
Hey, who got another man to help him flog a
black girl with that ghastly implement, a sting-
ray’s tail, has been the subject of some comment
in the Presbyterian General Assembly. It seeins
natural that the case of Old Nick—or possibly he
is only middle-aged Nick—should arouse remark.
Nick was pastor and magistrate at the Mapoon
mission in North Queensland. In this lonesome
spot it seems that Nick was Judge and jury, and
the whole box of tricks, and the yellow dog under
the waggon. When he felt called upon to tie up
a girl parishioner, and then get another man to
help flog her lest with only one man on the job
she might not be flogged sufficiently, Nick
apparently was a law unto himself. There is no
record of a particular statute dealing with the
matter. Apparently the young colored woman
wasn’t flogged on any fixed rule ; she was just
flogged on the back. Then she was left
chained up—possibly under the Dog Act. Her
alleged offence was that she gave back-talk to the
shepherd’s wife, and was otherwise annoying.
The exact size of her offence was known chiefly to
Nick, who acted as plaintiff in addition to all his
other capacities. The Presbyterian Assembly
considered the case, and in its haste it telegraphed
to Nick, assuring him of its undiminished confi-
dence. It was in such a hurry that the post was too
slow for it—not the post that the girl was tied to,
but his Majesty’s mail. It didn't telegraph to
the girl, assuring her of its undiminished hope
that her back was feeling better. The girl didn’t
come in anywhere. She was left out in the yard.
GETTING THE EXPRESSION.
PHOPOGRAPHER: "Now, please, steady; watch,
the card, and look pleasant! ”
“Adelaide”: “Locust” (B. 16/9/09)
makes an eloquent plea for a few equestrian
statues in Australia. He says we have none, and
he suggests as a subject Gordon’s “Sick Stock-
rider.” But how is he going to get Gordon’s
sick stockrider into a “ group in bronze ” ? The
stockman was not a rider, but sick, when
he soliloquised. “Locust,” by the way, has
not been in Adelaide lately ; if he had, he would
know the fine man-in khaki on a rearing horse,
outside Government House gate.
H.M.S. SWIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Tuesday Evening.—The speed of the destroyer
Swift is considerably over the stipulated 36 knots, and
exceeds that of any other British warship by three knots.
— Cable.
Another ghost to haunt the deep !
Another racing shade
The lonely seas to safely keep
When History is made,
And Britain wakens from her sleep
To grasp the rusting blade !
Another link to safely bind
The chain of Empire flung
Where Faith is dead and Honor blind
And Wolves of Death give tongue,
When by the guns their shields behind
The dirge of Peace is sung !
Another hound to aid the pack
Hunt down the ocean game ;
To keep the scent and double back
With funnels four aflame,
Until, amid the wild storm wrack,
The sleek torpedoes aim !
Long, long and low upon the wave—
A Thing without a soul,
’Twill brave the oceans when they rave
Or skim the laughing shoal ;
Shallow and deep with dead ’twill pave
When it of Life takes toll.
Mad strength a shell of steel within,
The Sea’s wild might without ;
It flies amid a hellish din
That drowns both fear and doubt.
Death here is seen in armor thin ;
But oh ! his heart is stout!
O ye who have together thrust
An Empire with the sword !
Know well the burthen to the dust
Bows down the overlord.
Upon th 6 steel no stain of rust
Oan conquerors afford !
So build and build, and never cease
Your warlike anvil song ;
And whoso will may prate of Peace
Unto the foolish throng.
By might alone ye hold your lease,
So see your arm be strong.
The blind steam drives the whirring screws,
The deep seas foam in wrath,
And ghosts of many drowned crews,
From East and West and North,
Rise swiftly from the ocean ooze
To watch her going forth.
They follow ih her seething track
And watch with eager gaze,
And though the eng-ines strain and rack
Through fleeting nights and days,
The dead, blanched swimmers at her back
Haunt all her deathly ways.
A riven, smoking hull that rolls
Quite helpless to each swell,
Then down among the drowned souls
It sinks for aye to dwell;
And loud and wild the bell-buoy tolls
An endless, deep-sea knell.
Another warden of the deep !
Another arm to fend,
And these our lonely seas to keep
’Gainst all that Fate may send,
Lest we should waken from our sleep
To hear, “ Behold THE END ! ”
N - s - w -
E. FRANCIS.
A DIVINITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T\AIL Y she 1
passes by , 1
Austere and
beautiful.
Daily my watch-
ful eye
Fays homage
dutiful.
Yet, eaay, one
complaint
lam induced to —
Far iess of you I see
7hm once I
used to.
N.S. W.
M. S.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat; all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
••NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur leplastrier & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent stock of Large Boilers for
all Mining Purposes, for 'working pressures of
1201 b. and 1501 b. per square inch, by Ruston
Proctor, Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
CAMEL HAllf
BELTING
«£C/s
r£ «eo
TRADt
BELTING.
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Mining-purposes. Sole Agents,
CAMERON &
SUTHERLAND
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT & BENDIQO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Reducing his remarks to a fe,w figures, N.S.W.
Treasurer Waddell put the year’s operations this way :
Or. balance brought forward £1,676,924
Revenue.—Governmental .. £6,626,891
Businesses .. .. 6,995,180
Advances Recovered 62,204
13,657,275
Total £15,364,199
Expenditure.—
Lands revenue passed to
Works Fund .. .. £360,652
Advances Recoverable .. 28,032
Expenditure (all other) .. 12,587,837
£13,276,521
Balance available £2,087,678
And that £{2,057,678 has been appropriated as follows :
Public Works Fund .. .. £450,000
Closer Settlement Fund .. 1,000,000
Credit balance 637,678
Total £2,087,678
Tims the Government started the year with a credit
balance on general revenue account of £1,676,924 and
reduced it during the y'ear by £1,039,246. Of course it
will argue that it transferred large sums to the two funds
above mentioned, and that out of those funds assets will
be provided or purchased. But apart from the fact that
the Works Fund at any rate is spent partly on mere
renewals, the Government received and treated as revenue
large sums received from the sale of public lands. It pro-
fesses to hand over two-thirds of the net proceeds
of the sale of these lands to the Works Fund. As
shown above, the amount handed over last y'ear was
£360,652, and that included a small sum (£691),
derived from the sale of lands under the Public Instruc-
tion Act. ’f'et though £360,652 was all that was handed
over, the Auditor-General’s report shows that the Govern-
ment received from land alienations no less than £900,532.
The explanation of the discrepancy is that none of the
interest levied on land-purchasers’ outstanding balances
is treated as revenue. This land costs the State
nothing ; it is not repurchased country'. The interest
is, therefore, all “bunce.” Moreover, as the princi-
pal is paid off, the interest is a rapidly disappearing
quantity; for, of course, conditional purchases are now
comparatively’ few. It is stretching the meaning of the
word to its uttermost limits to grab this disappearing in-
terest and call it revenue.
Then there are the business undertakings, which
panned out as follows :
Railways and tramways .. ... .. Profit, £434,117
Sydney Harbor Trust Profit, 37,625
Newcastle Harbor Trust Profit, 9,647
Water Supply'and Sewerage .. .. Loss, 6,647
Total net profit .. .. £474,742
Deducting the general balance with which the year began
from the balance with which it ended, as shown above,
we get this :
Carried forward.'. £2,087,678
Brought forward 1,676,924
Year’s surplus .. £410,754
That is to say', if not a penny had been transferred to
the Works Fund and the Closer Settlement Fund,
£410,754 would be the surplus ; and the revenue, it must
be repeated, includes large sums which are not really
revenue at all. As the “special votes” to.the funds
mentioned above totalled £1,450,000, it is plain that
they were nqt made out of last .year’s surplus.
As a matter of fact, the votes were almost wholly made
out of the previous year’s surplus. But by bringing sur-
pluses forward, as is the practice in N. S. Wales, a
Treasurer who has done badl.y can disguise the position,
and make a show of great affluence. In order to make
the mueh-talked-of votes to the two funds, the Govern-
ment last year had to cut into the accumulated surplus
brought forward from the previous year to the extent of
£1,039,246.
The year’s surplus was, then, only £410,754
before any votes were made to the funds above mentioned.
But, as shown previously, the profits from the business
undertakings—mainly railway's—were £474,742. Apart,
then, from those undertakings, and even reckoning the
whole of the proceeds of land sales, etc., as revenue, there
was a deficit of £63,988. The Wade-Waddell Government
is representing the financial position as wonderfully good
and sound. It isn’t anything of the sort; on the con-
trary, there is trouble ahead for a certainty. For these
reasons:—
(1) The whole of the surplus and £63,988 besides was
provided by the business departments, railway’s and tram-
ways chiefly'. Those railways and tramways admittedly'
enjoyed a boom ; and fares and freights have, during the
year, been cut down largely. When even the average
year arrives those cuts will land the Department in
another of its big deficits. And then what will the
general revenue account look like?
(2) The whole of the land-sale money’ and the so-called
interest are reckoned as revenue. This source of income
is shrinking rapidly’. What will the general revenue
account look like after it has shrunk a bit more, and
when it won’t be helped by a big surplus from business
undertakings ?
On the surface the figures submitted by Waddell look
glittering. The daily papers rushed into enthusiasm
over them. But they are nothing to enthuse over. If
the auditor of a business concern met the same circum-
stances, he would, if he were worth his salt, warn his
principals that the foundations were rotten, and that no
amount of mere window-dressing would save the situation.
■»■*■**
The Victorian Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Nominal
July, Loss. Reserves. July, Loss. Deficit.
1898.. £7307 £8941 | 1904.. £2381 £7441
1899.. 5648 3293 1905.. 3120 10,561
1900.. 3061 232 1906.. 3033 13,594
Deficit. 1907.. 2941 16,535
1901.. 2235 2003 1908.. 8565 25,100
1902.. 1585 ' 3588 1909.. 1385 26,485
1903.. 1472 5060
Last year it was mentioned that, in addition to the usual
profit and loss debit balance, an item “ Losses on proper-
ties sold, £6354,” had dropped into the balance sheet;
but it wasn’t clear whether those were accumulated
losses or otherwise. In the foregoing the amount has been
added to that year’s losses. W’hether any similar losses
have been made during the past year doesn’t transpire.
The profit ahd loss account doesn’t disclose any; but
neither, for the matter of that, did it disclose any in the
previous year. The concern was so bloated in the begin-
ning, and the valuations on which it made its advances
were so ridiculous, that the society even now has a long
way to go to reach the end. Its progress since 1898 is
shown hereunder:—
1898. 1909. Reduction.
Fixed deposits.. ..£251,155 £169,821 £81,334
Mortgages .. .. 79,771 18,687 61,054
Other liabilities .. 8,279 5,016 3,263
Total debts .. .. 339,205 193,524 145,681
Advances .. .. 558,773 387,933 170,840
Payments In arrear .. 19,734 10,351 9,383
Other assets .. .. 1,129 256 873
Total assets .. .. 579,636 398,540 181,096 ’
From the first table printed above it will be seen that,
between 1898 and the present, nominal reserves of £8941
have been turned into a deficit of £26,485 ; total
loss in that period, £35,426. Meantime assets have
been reduced by' £181,096 ; in other w'ords, there
has been a loss of £35,426 in realising assets
which stood in the books at £181,096. But the
situation is really' worse than that, because the deposits
have only been carrying 24 per cent. ; and no doubt also
they have been bought up at a heavy-discount. Nominally
the capital stands at £231,490. If that is disregarded,
there is £395,540 worth (book value) of assets to pay
£193,524 of debt; so that if, on the average, the assets
were worth 10s. in the £, the creditors would get paid,
though practically nothing would be left for shareholders.
Whether the assets are worth 10s. in the £, or
more or less, there is no way of telling. The total
income from interest and rent last year was only
£4432, and that wasn’t equal to l£ per cent, on
the book value. That certainly looks like tremendous
over-valuation ; if the assets were written down to 6s. Bd.
in the £ they wouldn’t show 4 per cent, gross on last
year’s figures. But a great part of the assets may be un-
productive vacant land, and that would completely' cap-
size a calculation of this sort.
It is surely time the thing was cleaned up. The
published figures— most of them—are utterly absurd.
They merely perpetuate in 1909 the boom figures of 1890.
They are no guide to the creditors, who, after being
starved for years, may' be sacrificing their interests, while
those who may be able to get information from behind
the scenes may be feathering their nests. The directors
of this concern are mostly' men with a first-class reputa-
tion. Do they honestly' think that it is a proper thing to
go on year after year publishing statements in which
occur items, for instance, like this—“Loanson mortgage,
£386,808,” when they know that those assets are not
worth probably more than half of it? Of course they sav
—“The above are the amounts at which the securities
stand in the Society’s books.” That may be a sufficient
hint to those who know—a hint that, for practical pur-
poses, the figures published are no good. But it surel.v
isn’t the duty of directors to publish figures that are no
good, even though they label them to that effect so as
not to mislead people. Their duty surely is to produce
and publish figures which are some good.
The South Australian Gas Co. :
Added
Net to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1899.. £33,636 12per cent. =£30,000 £3,636 £52,190
1900.. 33,498 12 „ „ 30,000 3,498 85,688
1901.. 37,299 12 „ ~ 30,000 7,299 92,987
1902.. 33,466 12 ~ ~ 30,000 3,466 96,453
1903.. 31,278 12 ~ ~ 30,000 1,278 97,731
1904.. 30,922 12 ~ ~ 30,000 922 98,653
1905.. 32,431 12 ~ ~ 30,000 2,431 101,084
Premiums on bonds sola .. 84 101,168
1906.. 35,543 12 per cent. = 30,000 5,543 106,711
1907.. 42,774 12 ~ ~ 30,000 12,774 119,485
1908.. 43,970 12 ~ ~ 30,000 13,970 133,455
1909.. 43,652 12 „ ~ 30,000 13,652 147,107
This co. not only lights up Adelaide and suburbs, but has
works at most of the S. Australian towns that are worth
the gasman’s attention, including Port Pirie, Gawler and
Kapunda. Both Adelaide and this collection of towns
have b. j en in clover for five years past. Even in 1903,
when drought made things shockingly bad in the eastern
States, S. Australia had a fair harvest, and made a heap
of money out of chaff and fodder, and things have been
good ever since ; so that not only have there been many'
new houses to light, but for once in a way frugal S.
Australia hasn’t cared whether the gas was turned off and
the cat put out at 9, or whether these important matters
were put off till as late as 9.30. This comparison shows
how sales have moved along—with some other details of
the business :
1901. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Sales .. ..£90,617 £110,295 £122,059 £136,636
Interest received 345
Interest paid .. 1,184 1,223 1,721
Goal, labor, etc. 38,992 45,403 55,740 71,614
Salaries, fees .. 5,283 6,610 6,893 6,703
Written off .. 7,315 9,991 8,511 7,911
The capital has remained at £250,000 for many years past,
and what outside money'has been needed to pay for plant
and expenses has been raised by an issue of bonds. But
so rapid has been the growth of reserves that, though the
book value of plant, etc., is £65,382 greater than it was
five years ago, while stocks.and book debts are £23,589
greater, it has only been necessary' so far to raise £47,600
on bonds. This shows the position at the two dates: —
1904. 1909.
Liabilities £29,930 £63,369
Liquid assets .. .. 48,464 64,543
Surplus .. .. £18,534 £1,174
And meantime the plant, works, etc., have gone up from
£327,617 to £392,999. That means that £65,382 has been
spent on plant, etc., plus the amount written off during
the past five y'ears for depreciation ; and yet the liquid
assets in excess of liabilities have only' been reduced from
£18,534 to £1174. Considering that during these years a
12 per cent. div. has been paid regularly, it is obvious
that the co. has been having a remarkably profitable
time. Its earnings have been so much in excess of the
dividend that, if the present rate of profit can be main-
tained, some concessions ought to be possible, either to
the shareholders or to the consumers. And shareholders
who get 12 per cent, out of the supply of a public neces-
sity are liable to over-reach themselves and do themselves
an injury if they seek to grab more than that, unless, at
any rate, they share with their customers, the public.
* * * *
Castlemaine Woollen Co. (Vic.)
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1902 .. 5 p.c. =£l3oo £2034
1903 ..£2214 4 „ „ 107 S £4OO £736 2770
£lB9O of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 880
1904 .. 2155 4 p.c. = 1156 750 ‘ 249 1129
1905 .. 1320 3 „ ~ 990 420 1549
1906 .. 1280 3 „ „ 900 380 1929
1907 .. 2008 4 ~ „ 1200 716 92 2021
1908 .. 3781 5 „ „ 1500 1500 781 2802
1909 .. 5812 5 „ „ 1500 1610 2702 5504
That looks better. But profits in a manufacturing
business which employs much machinery are not what
they' look. Depreciation must be provided for
—not merely the wear and tear of plant, but
the loss of value through competitors in the business
getting in more modern plant, and thus forcing others to
do the same. For several years after the first Common-
wealth tariff arrived the co. was so starved that it wrote
off very little, and even then its dividends got down to 3
per cent. In consequence there is probably' a good deal
of accumulated depreciation to wipe out. Still the out-
look under the Lyne tariff is distinctly better. Also the
general prosperity' of Victoria has made trade fairly brisk,
and stocks are now much lower than usual ; for the latter
reason the overdraft is also unusually small. The
capital is £30,000 ; the total debt to the public, apart
from £4OOO of debentures, is £3275. With a few years
more such as this co. has had, men with money may be
inclined to hand out a little more of it to establish and
extend industries of this kind. But the fool-politician
who points to the profits and yells advice in Australia’s
ear to reduce the duties will have to be sat upon hard and
heavily. Australia needn’t worry ; even if the duties
were high enough to allow manufacturers to make big
profits for a while, those big profits would soon attract
notice, and produce competition. But there won’t be
much competition until it is quite clear that the high
Protective duties are going to stay.
* * *
Commercial Permanent Land and Building
Society (Bendigo, Vic.): —
Business Loss on To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Sales. Dividends, serves, serves.
1903.. £1447 £B6 5 p.c. = £l3BO £1042
1904 .. 1473 82 5 „ „ 1396 1037
1905 .. 1410 53 5 ~ „ 1373 1021
1906 .. 1496 73 5 ~ ~ 1426 1018
1907 .. 1601 80 5 ~ ~ 1510 £ll 1029
1908 .. 1568 40 5 ~ ~ 1525 3 1032
1909 .. 1684 100 5 „ „ 1537 47 1079
This list starts at the beginning of the present pro-
cession of 5 per cent. divs. In 1900 4 per cent,
was paid, and in 1902 4J per cent. ; but apart from
those years the dividend was previously something
more than 5 per cent., as a rule. From some cause or
other the institution has made quite a dash during the
past 12 months. For several years the building society
advances had run from about £26,000 to £28,000. Twelve
months ago they were £27,877. Now they have sprinted
up to £33,513 ; and the Commercial has had to go to the
bank for the extra money, notwithstanding that it has
£8927 on loans “ not under building society tables.”
Still even now the total liabilities are only £S7O9, includ-
ing deposits, while the capital is £13,439. The share-
holders’ risks should therefore not be very heavy ; and,
indeed, they oughtn’t to be, considering how’ wretchedly
little profit is earned in excess of the 5 per cent, divi-
dend. And 5 percent, isn’t enough for any mining town
investment.
* ■* *• •*
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney):
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1903 .. £6859 6 p.c. = £6OOO £859 £28,729
Dec., 1903.. 5516 6 „ ~ 6000 28,245
June, 1904.. 7438 6 „ ~ 6000 1438 29,683
Dec., 1904.. 5655 j £”j f ’ ® ” ” 435 30,118
June, 1905.. 6102 ” ” 1750} 852 30,970
Dec., 1905.. 5879 6 6000 30,849
June, 1906.. 5382 6 ~ ~ 6000 30,231
Dec., 1906.. 9650 6 ~ ~ 6000 3650 33,881
June, 1907.. 9375 6 ~ ~ 6000 3375 37,256
Dec., 1907.. 7774 6 ~ ~ 6000 1774 39,030
June, 1908.. 9710 6 ~ ~ 6000 3710 42,740
Dec., 1908.. 8326 6 ~ ~ 6000 2326 45.066
June, 1909.. 7327 6 ~ ~ 6000 1327 46,393
Of the last half-year’s profits £2OOO is, however, transferred
to a plant renewal reserve ; and, though for the present
that amount has been treated as a reserve, it is question-
able whether it shouldn’t be written off to cover depre-
ciation. Certainly, depreciation to an unmentioned
amount is charged direct to profit and loss ; and if enough
has been charged—that is to say, if the profits disclosed
have been the actual true net profits—this reserve
shouldn’t be necessary. Still in a concern of this kind
it is almost impossible to know how much ought to
be written off. Supposing a new machine is got in :
it might look as though it would last 20 years; and yet,
owing to competitors getting an improved machine, this
co.'B machine might have to be scrapped in six years in-
stead of 20. The present transfer to a renewal reserve
gives the rather unpleasant suggestion that, from such
causes perhaps as this, the true profits hitherto have been
rather over-stated ; though so little information is fur-
nished that it is impossible to speak very definitely on
this or most other points connected with the co. So few'
figures, in fact, are issued that one is surprised to find an
error among them ; yet one obviously does occur in the
directors’ report. The capital is in £150,000 ordinary and
£50,000 pref. shares of 6 per cent., non-cumulative, and
£148,300 is owing to debenture-holders.
Wright, Heaton and Co. (Sydney), carriers
and produce-dealers:—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Jan., 1903.. 12,926 30 p.c. = 10,185 2741 18,413
Tulv 1903 I 5 10 •• ” 3 - 500 “ 2110 l 9SSOV
Ju1j,1903..| Unexplained additions ..8000/
Jan., 1904.. 2,840 10 p.c. = 3.500 27,863
July, 1904.. 2,911 10 ~ ~ 3,500 13,000 14,274
Jan.,1905.. 5,052 7A „ „ 2,625 2427 16,701
July, 1905.. 6,254 7| „ ~ 2,625 3629 20.330
Jan., 1906.. 6,593 7| ~ ~ 2,625 3968 24,298
Ju1v,1906.. 6,311 10 ~ ~ 3,500 2811 27,109
Jan., 1907.. 6,275 10 ~ ~ 3,500 2775 29,884
July, 1907.. 7.955 10 ~ ~ 3,500 4455 34,339
Jan., 1908.. 8,826 10 ~ ~ 3,500 5326 39,665
Julv, 1908.. 8,054 10 ~ „ 3,500 4,000 554 40,219
Jan., 1909.. 7,167 10 „ ~ 3,500 5,000 38,886
July, 1909.. 7,056 10 ~ ~ 3,500 4,500 37,942
This co. formerly carried on three semi-independentbusi-
nesses—McCulloch and Co., Ltd. (Victoria); Wright,
Heaton and Co. (Queensland); and Wright, Heaton and
Co., of N. S. Wales. The capital of the Queensland busi-
ness was £lO,OOO, provided by W., H. and Co. ; and the
capital of McCulloch and Co., the stock in which is also
held entirely by W., H. and Co., is £12,500. A couple of
years back the co. decided to sell out of Queensland ; and
of the £4500 now written off £l5OO is to cover losses in
completing the winding up of the business. The other
£3OOO is added to a contingency fund. This may be a
reserve ; but contingency funds are not usually' provided,
apart from general reserves, unless the contingent
loss is practically a certain loss. In these last few
years of good seasons in the Out-back the co. has had a
very fine time; yet the dividend record shown above
isn’t any better than for the whole period since 1896.
Before that things were not so flourishing, and in the
year of the big drought the co. paid no dividend at all.
Of course there are considerable risks. Stocks, mainly
of forage, are large, and the forage market is liable to
suffer severe bumps. Book debts also are heavy ; and a
good part of them are owed by people engaged in the
speculative businesses of wool and wheat growing. This
shows the details: —
July, Jul.v, Jan., July,
1902. 1908. 1909. 1909.
Cash £54,408 £57,832 £23,263 £11,745
Premises, plant, etc. 10,889 16,242 15,202 15,382
Stock .. .. 15,178 14,083 27,501 .30,668
Book debts 14,890 30,418 60,472 60,880
McCulloch Co. .. 78,052 88,420 21,846 23,574
Liabilities .. .. 20,673 20,637 37,648 30,558
Still the profits are so good in average seasons that the
co. can stand a few hard knocks in the bad ones without
perceptibly reeling. All the same, the recent rapid
growth of book debts needs to be looked at hard ; for the
present remarkably prosperous conditions in Australia
can’t be expected to last without a break, and the breaks
in Australia have a bad habit of coming very suddenly.
* * * *
The Federal Palace Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne):
Written To Re- Re-
Julv, Loss. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £125 Nil £1,436
Profit.
1900 .. 2002 10J p.c. = £1458 £544 1,980
1901 .. 3923 21J „ ~ 2920 1003 2,983
1902 .. 1700 Nil 1700 4,683
1903 .. 673 Nil 673 5,356
1904 .. 1753 - Nil 1753 7,109
1905 .. 1221 Nil 1221 8 330
1906 .. 1816 Nil 1816 10’146
1907 .. 2458 10J p.c. = 1465 993 11,139
1908 .. 2411 10f „ „ 1465 £8506 3,579
1909 .. 3040 10J ~ „ 1465 1000 575 4,154
This co. had a capital of £123,586 and a mortgage of
£68,000 in the days of Melbourne’s land boom. Tiie free-
hold premises were valued then at £151,082. When the
boom broke and a revaluation w'as made, £65,000 was
reckoned a fair thing. As somehow a mortgagee has a
rooted prejudice against allowing a borrow'er to write off
a mortgage, there was nothing for it but to write off the
capital ; and from £123,586 it fell with a sickening thud
to £12,762. That meant reducing shares from £1 to 35.,
of w'hich 2s. was reckoned as paid. Subsequently ljd.
was got in, and to-day the shares still stand at 2s. ljd.
paid, which means that, so far as original holders are
concerned, the 10J per cent, dividend is really only equal
to about lj per cent, on their disastrous investment. For
many years the mortgage called for all the attention the
co. had to spare. After paying interest, there wasn’t
much left over for some time ; and what was left over
was devoted chiefly to reducing the load of debt. It was
a long, tedious job ; but the £68,000 has now been got
down to £49,250, and the co. has also £1975 of Board of
Works debentures on hand. Of course, the mortgagee still
owns the biggest share of the concern, and he takes the
first bite of about £l9OO a year ; yet, as the load of interest
is about £750 a year lighter than it was, the shareholders
are that much nearer a regular dividend. During
the past two years additional lumps have been written off
freeholds. That, however, is chiefly a book-keeping
matter. VVliat has actually been done in the past few
years is better shown by this :
1900. 1909.
Liabilities .. .. ..£60,195 £50,503
Liquid assets .. .. 1,714 2,518
Deficit .. ..£58,481 £47,985
In addition to thus reducing the net liabilities by £10,496
in nine years, a dividend has been paid now and
then, and £I39S has been put into a freehold which is
used as a laundry.
* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society op
Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne): —
Dividend Writ-
(s p.c.) ten To Re- De-
Profit. and Bonus. Off. serves.
Mav, 1903 .. £lO '!L
Jan., 1904 ..£1450 £456 £994 77
July, 1904 .. 258 638 457
Jan., 1905 .. 1896 £1331 265 300
July, 1905 .. 1637 1441 215 i'”
Reserves.
Jan., 1906 .. 2661 1786 440 435 259
July, 1906 .. 1884 1864 267 12
Jan., 1907 .. 3450 2607 471 372 384
July, 1907 .. 3483 3000 757 110
Dividend only
(no Bonus).
Jan., 1908 .. 2493 1209 998 286 396
July, 1908 .. 164 Nil Nil 164 560
Loss.
Jan., 1909 .. 220 Nil Nil 340
Deficit.
July, 1909 .. 3712 Nil Nil 3372
This concern has been badly managed. The chief mis-
take, of which the concern had plenty of warning, was
that it tried to run before it could properly walk ; and it
tried to do the running on borrowed capital. It took, in
short, the old familiar “dope” labelled IO U. Among
other things it plunged into big property deals, and has
loaded itself with these liabilities apart altogether from
ordinary trading account Deb nt.ures, £11,917 ; mort-
gage, £13,000; overdraft, £13,722 ; total, £38,639. Before
it had really established a business at headquarters it
rushed also into branch businesses, even as far away
as Zeehan, Stratum and Queenstown, in Tasmania. Of
course it found out that it couldn’t handle the lot —it
would take it all its time to handle the one that was
under its nose. Hence realisations were lately resolved
upon ; and some of the heavy loss for the past half-year
is due to that. The loss, in short, falls in a heap, instead
of being most likely spread out over several years. The
Tasmanian branches showed this distressing result for
the six months: Zeehan, loss, £1193 ; Strahan, loss,
£lB4 ; Queenstown, loss, £4BO. The Zeehan business has
now been handed over to a local society. Apart from
these three the most distressful story is told about the
co-operative bakery,' which lost £1373. Some of this,
however, can be regarded as special and non-recurring,
and went in law.
This society is now in much the same position
as Maoriland, and they both will have to pull through
their difficulties by the same process of sweat and self-
sacrifice. But whereas this society seems to realise that
fact, Maoriland hasn’t yet fully made up its mind that
the unpleasant process is necessary. Two things the
society has resolved upon. The purpose of a co-operative
society being to secure co-operation, it has been
decided that those who won’t co-operate should go
out. If, therefore, any member does not in any half-year
purchase from the society goods to the value of £6, he
must forfeit 10s. If he does not pay it up in cash, it
conies out of his capital, and is transferred to the reserve
fund. On cause shown, the directors may, however,
remit the forfeiture. Complementary to this rule is one
relating to the costs of working and management. If,
for instance, they exceed 16 per cent, on an average
monthly turnover of £9OOO in two successive half-
years, five directors and the managing secretary
must go out, though they are eligible for re-
election. The first-mentioned rule is reported to
be producing excellent results ; the second has of course
yet to be tested. For a while, no doubt, there may be
some grumbling ; but with good management that will
soon cease, and members will do voluntarily and willingly
what unfortunately they have now to be disciplined into
doing.
*****
Barrier Co-operative Society, Ltd. (Broken
Hill, N.S.YV.): —
Divs. (5 p.c.) Written Re-
Profits. and Bonus. off. serves
Dec., 1904 .. £596 £371 £lO2 £169
June, 1905 .. 1129 591 232 475
Dec., 1905 .. 1236 766 183 762
Julv, 1906 .. 1363 950 126 1049
Jan., 1907 .. 1560 959 113 , 1537
July, 1907 .. 1580 1124 91 1902
Jan., 1908 .. 1714 1275 96 2245
Capital forfeited, £43 .. .. .. .. 2288
July, 1908 .. 1365 1278 97 2278
Capital forfeited, £S 2286
Jan., 1909 .. 1398 1161 92 2431
July, 1909 .. 1147 987 82 2509
The figures in the last line are approximate only. The
society allows a bonus to non-shareholders on their pur-
chases ; but so little of it is ever claimed that in the fore-
going table only £lO is deducted from profits on this
account. The figures for the half-year show a shrinkage
mainly on account of the labor trouble that dragged along
at Broken Hill for four months. Capital—apparently
withdrawable at any time—is £5493 ; against that £963 is
held in cash and bank balances. Liabilities total £4072
pretty considerable, considering the size and unfixed
character of the capital. But then book debts total
£4268, which is too much for a co-operative business
of this size to have outstanding. If co-operators
want their concerns to show the best results they-must
put them in a position to pay spot cash; and they can
only put them in that position either by supplying them
with ample capital to start with or by paying cash them-
selves for their own purchases.
* * * *
The Parramatta Woollen Mills, Ltd.
(N.S.W.). —This co. was formed in 1899, in the hope that
the Commonwealth, which was then about to be estab-
lished, would.introduce high-taritf Protection against the
cheap foreigner. Parramatta, however, evidently ex-
pected in some mysterious way that a foreign-trader
would vote for Protection and home industries ; anyhow',
it threw its vote on the side of Freetrade, and
this co. didn’t get the tariff that it needed.
The result was that, after four disastrous years,
the concern passed largely into the control of the man
who kept its overdraft, and no balance-sheets w'ere then
available. Then that awful man, W. Lyne, came along
with his tariff reform ; and the co. began to look up
again. It became possible also to reorganise' its
finances. On July 31, 1908, though no dividend had
been paid for years, there was a debit balance at profit
and loss of £1283. In the past 12 months this
has been w'iped out and a credit balance of
£695 established. Thus a profit of £1978 is
shown, after writing off £B6l for depreciation of plant
and machinery. This latter allowance is equal to be-
tween 6 and 7 per cent, on the book value of plant and
machinery. The co.’s capital is £24,896 in £1 shares ;
and there are debentures for £15,000 outstanding. Other
liabilities (trade debts) amount to £5538 ; but on the
other side there are book debts totalling £7672. It is
impossible to say whether all—or, if not all, then what
part—of the capital is intact until one knows whether the
plant has been written down in the past few years to
cover depreciation ; and the investment will have to be
considered with a good deal of doubt until a revaluation
has been made of the assets, or until an assurance is given
that it already has been made.
* * * *
For a couple of months past the fire, marine
and accident insurance cos. doing business in Australia
have been at work, first in Sydney and later on in Mel-
bourne, fixing up a working agreement. They have all
been very good friends for some time past; but the new
arrangement is intended to make them better friends
still, and to prevent such a trouble as that which broke


Streng'tH and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your Bankers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
Conveying Apparatus
for handling
COAL, ORE, WHEAT,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Robins Conveying Belt Co.
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. & J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
Adams’Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick 1 price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
« * « *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s Condor ” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the cioal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
* it * *
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions of
this furnace are as follows —168in. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed'from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom —thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne.* [2
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement”
Asbestos Slates op roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant arid Vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney.* [3
.Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* • * »
The Policy Holder. Manchester, in its issue of
30/9/’08, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited “ The Colonial Mutual typifies to
a great extent the Australian spirit, the keynotes of
which are ambition and enterprise. This Society has
much which commends it for acceptance to our country-
men, while its reputation for straightforward dealings
largely explains its success in the other countries in which
it operates.*
... « * * *
Tenders invited for battery* engine, boiler and
quantity mining plant, Cowra Creek, Bredbo. For
absolute sale. Tenders close 25th. Particulars Gainford,
18 Bridge Street’*
• * * *
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
TUOKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Genuine BalAta Belting. —We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Win. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with.a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, which is common slack, being
less than l£lb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.*
+ « * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sii.berbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket .transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s Crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * • *'
Gibson, Battle & Co. Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, and William Street, Melbourne, have been
busy among the collieries, having recently installed
Jeffrey Cable Conveyors for handling slack coal at the
North Bulli Colliery, and at Aberdare and Aberdare
Extended Collieries, at Cessnock, with capacities of from
10 to 80 tons per hour. Last week they put into operation
for the Newcastle City Council a Cable Conveyor of 20
tons capacity for delivering the small coal from railroad
waggons to the boiler house. They also have on order
for South Clifton Colliery, a large Conveyor and Picking
Belt combined, with capacity of 200 tons an hour.*
DIERCKS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd.
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
/ ' SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating &. Ice MaKlng Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing' Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne;
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth'lee and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [4,
out a while ago in Westralia, where they have actually
been competing for one another’s business at cut rates. A
new supreme authority has been created to deal with any
of the thousands of tricks which underwriters have in-
vented—the trick, for instance, of giving a concession to
big insurers b.v making them directors, and paying them
fat fees. This new Federal Council is to sit alternately
in Sydney and Melbourne, about every three months;
and So that there shall not be any jealousy, Melbourne is
to predominate when the council sits in that city, and a
Sydney man is to be chairman when it sits in his village.
The London and Lancashire is to pay the Aus-
tralian Alliance Assurance Co. £lO,OOO for its goodwill
plus the value of the assets. Or, rather, it will buy on
that basis all the shares offered ; but if 30,000 are not
offered before the end of next month it will not be bound
to buy any. It is understood, of course, that a parcel of
that Size has been guaranteed. The valuation of the
assets, mostly mortgages, has been almost completed, so
it will not be long before shareholders will know what
their shares are reckoned to be worth. There are 50,000
shares in the co., so the goodwill is to be paid for at the
rate of 4s. per share. The London and Lancashire is not
to be bound to take any shares not offered to it prior to
August 31, 1910 ; but the man who hangs on after that
time is likely to be made to feel that it is a pretty cold
world.
* * * *
Maybe it is only a coincidence ; but it is notice-
able nevertheless that the improvements to the Broken
Hill Junction North mill and the increase in the assay
value of the ore mined have come along-hand-in-hand,
liver since June last the grade of the ore nnilled has
shown a slow but steady increase, and all that time mill
improvements have been in progress and better results
have been obtained. It has recently been given out that,
rich sulphides are showing in the north drive on the bot-
tom level, and that assays there have run up to 20 per cent,
lead. The footwall side of the drive has always carried
high-grade ore, but the big bar of rhodonite which goes
right down through the ore body was the trouble. This
has been got through now; hence the increased
recovery. The large proportion of rhodonite formerly in
the ore, and its high specific gravity, caused such a loss
of lead in concentrating that the mill had to be equipped
with a special rhodonite section to cope with the diffi-
culty. This difficulty, or the greater part of it, has now
disappeared for the present, and good returns may be
expected for some time to come. When the next level
is opened up no doubt the old rhodonite trouble will
reappear- unless the rhodonite bar cuts out. And
that isn’t likely.
*** * *
Frank Elmore, one of the inventors of the
Elmore zinc-extraction process, now in successful use by
the Zinc Corporation, is to arrive in Australia before the
end of the month. He is to get to work at once on the
plant which is to go up on the British Broken Hill lease.
The lead mill is being reconstructed, and later on, when
productive work starts, an effort will be made to get out
all the recoverable metals by a practically continuous
process. The ore will first go through the lead mill and
then on to the zinc mill, as it is found that a better re-
covery is got from new tailings than from those which
have been Weathering on a dump.
* . ■* * *
Negotiations have now resulted in the Junction
Co., of Wyalong (N.S.W.), principally controlled by Mr.
James Channon, purchasing the adjoining property, the
True Blue. The latter is particularly well equipped with
machinery for carrying on development work, and this
plant will be used also for working the Junction, which is
not so well off in that respect.
- , * * *
The Bellambi Coal Co. (N.S.W.) has had
another of its profitable years—it is a long while since it
has had anything else. Down to 1908 it had a capital of
£175,000, some of which had been paid up out of profits.
As at August, 1907, it had an insurance reserve of £40,000,
and a steamers renewal and general reserve of £30,000,
besides £6601 of unappropriated profit after paying the
dividend for that half-year; total, £76,601. This was
an increase of £35,803 in two years; and, mean-
time, dividends of at least 15 per cent, per annum
had been paid. In view of the strength of the
reserves thus disclosed, it was then decided
to issue the balance of the authorised capital—£7s,ooo.
This has been done during the past 18 months. The
shareholders got one share for seven by way of a bonus
(in all £25,000, which was transferred from reserves to
capital), and the other 50,000 shares were issued at par.
The paid capital is now, therefore, £250,000, which is all
that is authorised. In the past 12 months the reserves
have been increased from £73,000 to £90,500 ; and
after making these additions to reserve a profit of
£37,872 is shown. Including the additions to re-
serves, the year’s profits were thus £55,372. Whether
the amounts added to reserves are all true profit
is another matter. It is pretty certain, however, that a
considerable part of them can’ be regarded as such. For
instance, the reserve for the insurance of steamers is
£52,000 ; and the entire book value of steamers, hulks,
etc., is only £55,100. A dividend of £17,500 (equal to 10
percent, on the old capital) was paid during the year,
and another equal to 74 per cent, on the present capital
is now payable. After this dividend has been distributed
and all debts have been paid, the eo. will have in cash,
public securities and book debts a comfortable little
£103,655. No other coal co. in N. S. Wales can show such
a strong position.
* * * *
A. J. Chappie, metallurgist and cyanide
manager for the Occidental (N.S.W.), has had enough
of it. At the annual meeting at the end of August
shareholders were told that the upper levels were nearly
done, and that a new plant was becoming necessary.
The chairman said they had been thinking over the
matter, but on account of the mistakes made by other
mines in the Cobar district in erecting unsuitable plants
to treat the refractory ore from lower levels, they re-
quired more expert opinion before they would put in
the Moore vacuum slime process recommended by their
own officers. Meantime an air-compressor, boiler and
high-speed engine had been ordered, because these
would fit in with any plant. A circular was issued
to the shareholders some time ago to the effect
that everything in the garden was lovely, and they
needn’t be afraid of anything they might hear to the con-
trary. But the controlling spirit is getting too affable
altogether; and when “ Cobar” Hogan gets affable and
gives information away freely, it’s time to be careful.
(He controls Mount Drysdale too ; but there was no cir-
cular issued to Drysdale shareholders.) As a matter of
fact, nearly all the accumulation of dry slimes has been
treated, and before Christmas the returns from the slime
plant will have dwindled. Then with refractory ore to
tackle, and no plant to tackle it with, shareholders will
have something to ponder over.
* * * *
Cobar Cold Mines have applied to the Minister
for another suspension of labor conditions ; but he for-
warded the application along to the Cobar Warden,
so that the latter might hold an inquiry in open court.
The local mine representatives came along and gave evi-
dence to the effect that they were selling ore (they didn’t
say it had been lying on the surface for years) to the
Great Cobar ; also they were still experimenting. Every-
one in court smiled, and the Warden wouldn’t go farther
than to recommend partial suspension for six months, 30
men to be employed. Even that is too much of a con-
cession ; for the mishandling of this property has got
beyond a joke.
* * * »
Oanbelego, Cobar district (N.S.W.), comes into
notice with a return of 6.37 tons copper from 46 tons ore.
The gross value was about £350, but after deducting
heavy transport charges and treatment costs Oanbelego
only receives £llB, or at the rate of 51s. per ton, though
the shipment averaged 13’84 per cent. The stuff was got
mostly from the 200 ft. north level, which has now reached
136 ft. and has 2+ft. of 9 per cent, ore in the face. The
lode lias got narrower and poorer for the last few feet,
but that need not be taken as a permanent pinch. The
small return compared with the gross value is a warning
to shareholders in small copper mines generally not to
count their profits before thevare in hand. At Oanbelego
it is estimated that the 200 ft. level will average 10 per
cent, copper ; if so, and if reserves are increased by open-
ing up another level at 300 ft., it would probably pay to
buy a small smelting outfit; for “ coffee pots ” are very
cheap nowadays.
Principal Westralian results for August:—
Value
per
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit, ton.
Great Boulder.. .. 18,722 £50,137 £26,208 53/6
Golden Horseshoe .. 25,291 50,752 20,040 40/2
Ivanhoe .. .. 19,686 41,226 20,096 41/10
Kalgurli 10,780 28,047 15,702 527-
Perseverance .. .. 16,692 29,384 7,585 35/2
Great Fingall .. .. 11,030 14,676 1,512 26/7
Sons of Gwalia.. .. 13,423 22,027 7,898 32/9
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,622 20,960 7,914 367-
Lake View Consols ..10,600 12,876 *2,678 24/4
Associated .. .. 11,710 21,026 5,720 35/10
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,620 11,660 4,677 50/6
Mararoa 2,596 4,623 2,244 35/8
South Kalgurli .. 9,040 12,502 3,000 27/8
Associated Northern.. 3,770 6,019 2,196 31/11
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,320 5,816 2,811 50/1
Gwalia South .. .. 2,030 4,427 1,026 43/7
Hainault .. .. 5,554 7,711 1,491 27/9
Chaffers 3,491 6,818 1,700 39/-
Gwalia Consolidated.. 6,530 8,915 336 27/3
Marvel Loch .. .. 1,673 2,459 577 29/5
Northern Mines .. 8,056 3,164 747 20/3
Peak Hill .. .. 6,954 2,486 108 7/2
North White Feather 2,260 3,458 513 30/7
Boulder No. 1 .. .. 2,617 2,546 210 19/5
Vivien 3,617 3,624 3 20/-
Karangahake .. .. 930 1,640 387 35/3
Orion 702 1,312 217 37/4
Cumberland .. .. 392 1,183 224 60/-
Loss.
Lancefield .. .. 6,821 11,455 +241 33/7
•Including £lOO3 derived from the treatment of old
slimes.
tUnderground costs “considerably increased” on
account of fall of ground seriously interfering with
operations and limiting tonnage.
* * * *
Some Westralian shareholders feel like shoot-
ing somebody. They are interested in Hannan’s Star,
which in its turn controls the Deep Levels, and is
now to be given over to an amalgamated
co. in 500,000 shares. Recently it was announced
that ore worth £271,325, from which a profit of
£54,000 ought to be made, existed in the property. Of
course, it can’t be absolutely proved,that this profit could
be made ; still there is a very fair likelihood of it. But the
co. must have machinery; and at present it hasn’t the
money—about £30,000 —to buy it. Instead, however, of
going straight to the shareholders, the directors have fixed
up an arrangement with that energetic ex-Australian,
Lionel Robinson, under which he gets 40,000 shares, a
commission of ljd. per share on all shares subscribed for
by the present shareholders (who are asked to pay up 3s.
per share), and an option on 100,000 shares which are in
reserve. The management has been wretched hitherto ;
the Star is the concern which put some of its cash re-
serves into a hush pub at Ravensthorpe, so no more need
be said on that point. But it is questionable whether it
ever made a worse bargain than the one in connection
with the reconstruction.
Associated (W. A.) is recording more disappoint-
ments. The enlarged plant, capable of doing, so it was
estimated, 12,000 tons a month, has not reached the
estimate yet. Underground the timbering has been left
a bit behind, and the falling in of a stope some months
ago has not helped things. Some additional furnaces,
skips in the shaft, and vigorous work underground are
needed to put the big mine in good condition. On a
16,000-ton-a-month basis, and with a good policy below,
the central mine of the belt should justify itself, but the big
job needs big hands.
* * * *
Golden Links and Kalgoorlie Amalgamated
(W.A.) appear to be playing a game of hide-and-seek.
There are certain ore bodies along the boundaries which
are important to each ; but though work is going on, no
one seems to like to say what is being done. Meanwhile,
as a kind of side-line, the Link is setting financial bird-
lime for the Golden Eagle, a small block on the north of
the co.’s claims which has the run of the lode, but is
owned by a party quite free from the influences of the
London mining section. A report that the Eagle had
been snared is not yet confirmed, the chief of the 8., M.
and Co. office being busy at the Fingall,
* * * *
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) has had some more bad
luck in the breaking of a main engine-shaft. But Manager
Hamilton, who rushed away to see what caused the
trouble! and incidentally took a shaft up on the same
train, says the profits will not be diminished, the slimes
plant making good the deficiency ; and next month
everything should be serene. As the heap of accumulated
slimes is entered upon, some high values should be got.
* * * <•
There has been a commotion at Wiluna (W. A.),
and the big mine there, which has never paid a dividend
in spite of gorgeous promises, is to see many changes.
Local people, who have watched matters with mixed
feelings for a long while past, reckon that the share-
holders will soon find out now why it is they have never
had a div.
* * * *
“Pindan” : Tanami, the alleged goldfield in
the Nor’-West to which some sort of a rush is netting in,
is 200 miles from Hall’s Creek, just a bit east of the 128th
peg of longitude, and it can be located very near 18+ lat.
south. Hall’s Creek has a sinister record, for it was the
first Westralian goldfield, and it turned out about the
biggest duffer on record. In 1886 it had seven pubs and
a conglomerate population of anything up to a couple of
thousand. To-day* there is only* one house where tinned
dog and a drink can be had in the way of refreshment.
The landscape is mostly ironstained quartz and sand,
empty beer bottles, buck spinifex, shiny meat tins, and
long-bearded goats which dispute ownership with a few
wretched aboriginals. Where the goats sprang from,
nobody* knows ; but they seem to have got a hold on the
country, ai.d are multiplying at a great rate. Bob
Sefton, who has been knocking about Victorian, Queens-
land and Westralian goldfields off and on for nearly a
quarter of a century, was out at Tanami not long since,
and reports that the country'is not at all the arid sandy*
desert commonly* reported. Prospectors who are good
bushmen needn’t bother about camels, he says, but men
who cannot rough it. are advised to stay where mother
can find them. Hall’s Creek was rich in specimens, and,
the dolly'-pot kept a lot of them going, but. pot for long,
The stringers and leaders petered out, and when the
stampers got to work on decent-sized reefs, the gold
vanished. Out of nearly a dozen plants, only one is now-
working. This is on the Ruby Queen, about 10 miles out
from the township. It has been worked in slipshod
fashion for 15 years, barely yielding tucker ; but, with
capital and a bit of energy, the show would be worth
watching. Many old battlers predict that Kimberley
will be one of the great goldfields in Australia. The gold-
bearing area is roughly estimated at 130 miles long by 30
miles wide. Big quartz reefs, easy to work, and running
from Bdwt. to an ounce, abound, and should the Pilbarra
railway from Port Iledland to Marble Bar justify itself,
another from Wyndhani to Hall’s Creek will certainly
follow. The distance along the telegraph line is 212
miles, but the road is 3S miles longer.
* * * *
Stannary Hills (Q.) has been prospecting with
the drill, but until lately assays have been very poor. Then
it was decided to try in another direction for the Eclipse
lode, and the bore on that mission has found 4gft. of ore
whichis estimated at 20 per cent, oxide, or say 14 per cent,
tin. A crosscut is to be run in to further test the value
of the formation. Apart from this discovery, Stannary
hasn’t been doing too w'ell ; for the mill has been stuck
up for want of water, and the low-grade tin dirt hasn’t
so far yielded up to expectations. But operations have
been put on a new' basis, and there is now more reason-
able hope of success than there was in the past.
* * * *
Sapphiretown (Q.) recently sent away its record
parcel of gems for the South—94 picked stones, represent-
ing every shade of sapphire and zircon, with specimens
of the true ruby and diamond. The lot came from
Garnet’s claim at the Scrub camp.
* * * *
Mungana (N.Q.) has shortened hands, so in
spite of hopes recently held forth the output of ore isn’t
likely to increase much. Mine reports continue to pro-
vide nice reading for the shareholders; but nice reports
are not particularly fattening, and they won’t buy the
missus a hat. The treatment of 2847 tons last month
g-ave Mungana an approximate return of £3353, or only
235. per ton of ore. Yet the production of metals was
24,2190 z. silver, 98 tons copper, and 260 tons lead, worth
gross over £ll,OOO, or about £4 per ton of ore. It is
something for shareholders in other mixed-ore mines to
think over.
* » » *
Chillagoe (N.Q.) continues to receive about
£BOOO per month from railway revenue, but freight is not
very heavy just now. Einasleigh is, however, sending
good shipments to the Chillagoe works, so another copper
furnace has been blown in. Ore has lately been struck in
the Einasleigh’s No. 4 level.
* * * *
Manager Muir, of Mount Molloy (Q.), strikes
an original idea for prospecting that variable show. The
Molloy ore bodies were supposed to have pitched to the
north, so most of the prospecting at the 470 ft. level has
been done in that direction. But Muir thinks that an
entirely new shoot may be found south. A drive is fol-
lowing a defined ore channel southwards, so Molloy may
have something to say for itself, and the new* manager
will receive much praise if another ore body is located.
Arrangements have been completed for Mount Molloy to
purchase ore from the Anniversary (Herberton), which
probably means that another smelting campaign will be
started before long. Stirred up by competition, Chillagoe
has amended its smelting tariff with a view to attract ore
from the same district.
* * * *
Victory, Charters Towers, has kept its end up
better than some that have been talking so wildly about
the Day Dawn. The underlay is going down from No. 4
shaft on the 423 ft. formation, and if values are maintained
there should be a tidy area to work on both sides of the
shaft. Brilliant-Stockholm is another that has about
held its own in the market, which has been influenced no
doubt by a return worth about £3 a ton. This reef
varies a great deal, and the old Brilliant P. O. is such a
big concern that dividends can only come at long
intervals. The levels extend from 800 ft. vertical to the
old workings at 300 ft. Developments at depth are being
closely watched, and the building of a railway to facili-
tate haulage shows that the Brilliant Co., at any rate, has
faith in the Stockholm’s future.
* * » *
Andy Kelly, Bowes Kelly’s big brother, was
one of the early birds at Mount Balfour, and he seems to
havealighted there at the right moment, just- like the
other one did at Mt. Lyell. He hit on to a likely-looking
show, and now the Melbourne market teems with rumors
of chalcopyrite, bornite, and other choice swear-words in
the copper vocabulary. Knox and Schlapp have gathered
the show into their ample chests, and infused a strong
leaven of Broken Hill and a nice little bit of modern
high finance into the batch. Andy seems to
have been visited and blessed by Sticht, judging
by a hazy suggestion in one of the coddled papers. That,
however, doesn’t make things certain, for if recollection
serves aright, Sticht uttered a benediction over Blue
Tier, and that ended badly enough. Bowes Kelly and
Andy Kelly, according to popular ideas, are linked up in
the Mt. Balfour Consolidated. The tooting is certainly as
loud as if it came from the Kelly’s big motor-car. Still, the
volume of sound cannot compare with that over Lang-
ford’s Mount Balfour copper mine ; and already the word
is passed round that there is more copper in it than there
is tin in the Briseis Extended or gold in the Maori Queen.
Time, however, has to show.
* » * *
Perhaps, after all, Tom Ellison’s Mt. Bowen
mine, in Gippsland, isn’t to follow him to the land of
shadows.. An English Johnnie, or what is about the
same thing, a London copper co., has taken an option
over the show, together with the Sydney-held Mt.
Bowen South Extended lease and two private
claims. Why a fat, contented, well-to-do London
co. wants’ to poke its way into the wilds of
Gippsland after copper can’t be understood when
there is gold to be got. Possibly the lot of Gippsland rich
black oxide and chalcopyrite sent to the Earl’s Court
Exhibition from the mine did the trick. Melbourne won’t
believe that Bowen has a ghost of a chance, but folks there
will never put up much capital to prove Yea or Nay.
Bull may open his purse-strings wide enough to settle all
arguments.
* * * m
Bendigo managers want the State to help them
to open up the side lines. This is rather a new cry to
hear from Bendigo, and it isn’t nice to have it raised
when the nine months’ work of 1909 shows a big slab of
profits over calls for the field. Bendigo is not
at all popular outside. The gentle public has the
idea that it was plucked and skinned over the
1906 boom. So, with outside support at a low ebb, and
the old fighting, hard-drinking, plucky Bendigonians on
the wane or hard-up, the State purse is the only refuge.
Even then managers don’t want the State to come in
as first creditor. Considering that the Treasury isn’t
appealed to by most mining cos. until no one else
will help, there is every reason why the State should
be a preferential creditor, if it comes in' at all.
The record of State advances to mining cos. shows a huge
deficit so far, and as the State, when anything good is
struck, never gets more than principal and in-
terest back, the strength of the Bendigonian contention
that the Government should not have first call on the
available security won’t wash.
» * * »
The market began to smell a rat or two when,
having bought Tongkah tin shares heavily, it found it was
being supplied with scrip in the names of men who had
been saying there were millions in the business. Then
the market Started to put two and two together,- and was
more suspicious than ever about that extraordinary divi-
dend vvhioh was flungr out a month or two ago. Off and
on a couple of dredges have been at work since, but there
has been great delay on account of the absence of spare
parts. The matter of the dock and channel is, however,
being, to all appearances, forgotten ; and that is the
matter that really counts. The co. has bound itself to
do that work in a stipulated time, and the longer
the problem is dodged the worse the trouble
will be in the end. The question arises: Did some
of these people ever really intend to face the job,
or did they merely lay themselves out to rake up tin as
fast as they could, boom the shares, and then slip "out
and let somebody else nurse the baby when it became
troublesome? Some of the Tongkah people qprtamly
didn’t; they are honest people who believe firmly in the
concession. But the question is whether they haven't
got their ideas about the relative insignificance of the
dock-and-channel work from the people who never in-
tended to tackle it? Nothing but a report from a
thoroughly competent harbor engineer will satisfy the
public ; and until that is got, or until the eo. makes some
other arrangement with the Siamese Government,
Tongkah is too dangerous to handle except for mere
gambling purposes.
* < * * *
E.A.G. : They’re too far off our beat to advise
about, either Ransom : Not at present prices ... F.G.:
Sorry, but we’re not in the market-tipping business
Puzzled : The man who “buys a straddle” pays, say, 3s.
for the right to either buy or sell a certain stock at, say,
£1 in two months or whatever time is fixed on. In short,
he backs his opinion that the market will either move up
or move down more than 3s.


r
HAVE YOU BEEN BUYING
HONEST SILK?
If a merchant gave you % of a yard of cloth and made you pay
for one yard he would be CHEATING you. Yet many store*
•ell SHORT MEASURE silk and you keep buying it.
The CORTICELLI Silk on every spool is measured by RULE*
Corticelli Silk known to Science.'..
Test for yourself the strength of Corticelli Sewing Silk. It cuts
into the flesn when you try to break it! Corticelli is the
strongest silk made. No other silk is so elastic and springy.
Corticelli Silk Mills
ESTABLISHED 1838
Australasian Office: 91a York Street, Sydney A
FOIBLES OF FAT FOLKS.
Something to Set Them Right.
Too many fat folks seem to think that 1 / going
without a rational quantity of food they i-an cure
the disease of obesity. Others pin their faith to
exercising, or body-contortion, which, with the
very stout, is attended with considerable danger.
A little common-sense reasoning should convince
any man or woman that merely weakening the
body for a time can be no true cure for over-stout-
ness. Fortunately, science has recently provided
the world with a remedy which goes to the root of
the evil and cures the disease itself. The ingredi-
ents are here given :—One half-ounce of Marmola,
one ounce of Glycyrrhiza B.P-, one ounce of pure
Glycerine B.P. Mix these with 3|oz. of Pepper-
itiint Water (or get your chemist to do the mixing),
and take two teaspoonfuls after each meal and at
bedtime. At the same time feed up well, and
don’t fatigue yourself beyond ordinary need. In
a very short time the change will be wonderful,
not only in the body proportions, but in health
and strength, ease and comfort, freshness of com-
plexion, nervous energy* If: the above prescrip-
tion does not lead to a very satisfactory cure of
over-fatness nothing will,*
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Learn by Post
rrei
W in your spare time, and without
' with your regular vocation, subjects which will'
enable you to attain speedy promotion in your
present position, or qualify you for a more con
denial and _etter paid occupation.
STOTT
HOAR E’S
COLLEGE
BUSINESS
71 has the largest and most highly qualified staff of
' 1 expert instructors in Australasia, who give personal
A attention to each postal stude^.
* BOOKKEEPING and ACCOUNTANCY. SHORTHAND A
and TYPEWRITING. CORRESPONDENCE and J
ARITHMETIC. PENMANSHIP. Etc. J*
-V- \ Electrical * Mechanical ENGINEERING./
4 1 Architectural « Mechanical DRAWING.
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Etc.
•/ . "Hum Studr** Poet Free .
* sr
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Alec. Zander ” : Be “ Mallacoota’s ” par
(B. 16/9/’O9). There is one important use to which
the barrel is put that he has overlooked. On
sandy rivers, like the Castlereagh in N.S.W. and
the Flinders in Queensland, you can ride for miles
in a dry season and not find a drop of water —
nothing but sand ; yet by digging a few feet a
plentiful soakage will be struck. The settlers
along those rivers knock the ends out of a cask,
and having sunk a hole, they put the cask in as a
casing. It prevents the sand from falling in and
makes a permanent well, yet one which is easily
deepened or shifted if required. I have watered
40 horses out of one of these wells in an hour,
most of the time being lost waiting for the water
to rise. Often a drover carries a cask with him to
supply the camp and horses when travelling along
one of these rivers. There is a yarn that out near
Gilgurinia (N.S.W.) the horses used to dig for
water themselves; but that is the district where
animals gen drunk on milkweed, and I am afraid
the moke that told the story was on the burst and
had vine-leaves in his tail.
A CRISIS.
The aboriginal groom has stolen the only bottle
of grog off the bar-shelf, and is tanking for the
scrub. A mob of travelling sheep have just been
sighted at the crossing, and the drovers are ex-
pected any minute.
“Hamer”: “Vulcan” (B. 16/9/’O9) in-
quires about the age of horses. This is a matter
upon which your town-bred scribes are not compe-
tent to speak ; but I live right out at Paddington,
and therefore I am not barred from the contro-
versy. I have consulted a number of’bus-drivers,
and discovered that horses occasionally reach
an incredible age. The oldest ’bus-driver in
Sydney—who looks about 192, and has been
at the game ever since he was a boy
—told me that he had been acquainted
with one of his horses ever since he started. He
said that an occasional drink of beer seemed to
keep the horse going, and whenever a benevolent
fare supplied the cash the horse got the liquor. I
gave him the necessary threepence. Other ’bus-
drivers have told me wonderful tales about other
horses, which lead me to the conclusion that any
horse, especially if it smokes and drinks, has a
good chance of seeing 50 years.
“ Henry Plielthatt ” : My advice
to hatters is, “Never allow a
woman to cross the threslihold
of your hut.” I was deluded
into letting two picnicking
females peep into my sanc-
tuary. Immediately they
volunteered to come and
tidy up for me. Thinking
the olfer was made in good
faith, I submitted to it.
They came early next
morning, armed with
brooms and disinfect-
ants, and commenced on
the fireplace. They
scooped up all the ashes
and distributed them
over the earth. Now,
those ashes were of
great service to me. I
used to bury a piece
of green wood in their
depths, and morning
and evening I had a
heap of glowing
coals with which to
start the fire. I
managed to recover
about half a bucket-
ful of them after
the wreckers had
left, but it will
take years to get
the heap up to
its old dimen-
sions. T hey
dug deep cre-
vices in the
table, as
though it had
been wash-
dirt going an
ounce to the
dish ; covered
a box that I
used to cut my
tobacco on with
cretonne ; past-
ed a colored
supplementover
Hop’s picture of
George Reid’s
Blondin perform-
ance ; aired the
blankets and returned
them full of burrs, thereby compelling me
to sleep in my trousers; destroyed an ex-
perimental clutch of gohanna eggs ; let my
razor fall and gapped it; scrubbed a hole, in
the frying-pan; and took away last week’s
Bulletin that I hadn’t read. In addition, there
are many Valuable things lost and missing, nota-
bly my cherry-wood pipe. About all I have got
out of the salvage is the cat, the concertina and a
tin of baking soda. I had to trudge into the store
to buy cream of tartar with which to bake my
evening meal. Take about Socialism as a home-
wrecker—it’s not in it with two benevolent women.
* * * *
“Tiger Snake”: Recent par. on the
necessity for suppressing the shooting habit in
dogs reminds me of a man who was taken into a
way-up VVestralian hospital the other day with a
broken thigh. He got the injury through being
shot by a six-months-old foal. The
mare’s youngster was in the habit of
helping itself to the camp pickings,
and in particular was partial to a
well-baked damper. In foraging
amongst the camp effects, the foal
disturbed a loaded rifle, which
exploded and fractured its owner’s
limb. The owner, by the way,
had only been a few months out
of gaol after serving a sentence for
the man-slaughter of a kangaroo-
shooter in a drunken argument
concerning the ownership of a bridle.
The killing was done with a rifle—
possibly thesamegun that the foal
manipulated. Some people think
that the foal had an idea that
two years w'asn’t enough to serve for
manslaughter. I think myself that
the quality of the damper had something to do
with it. Anyhow, there seems to be a Sunday-
school moral about the business somewhere.
“ Moorabiuda ” mentions the Big Estate
Curse in Victoria :
Late in 1851 a great exodus from South Australia to
Victoria commenced, and this increased during the first
few months of 1852. Ail the coasting vessels were
crowded with pa>sengers, and thousands of people
travelled overland. Men of all classes joined in the rush
—farmers and their laborers, shopkeepers, clerks, Govern-
ment officials, mechanics, doctors and schoolmasters
sailed, rode or travelled on foot to the neighboring State.
South Australia lost most of its male population. Some
townships were left with only one or two adult males.
Trade was paralysed, houses were left empty, and pro-
perty was enormously depreciated in value. But during
the latter part of 1852 most of the South Australian
diggers came back from the Vie. goldfields, and remained
in S.A. Others followed in 1853, leaving comparatively
few behind them. The chief reason which operated to
draw them back to S.A. was the infernal Victorian land
system. With millions of acres of fertile land lying idle,
it was almost impossible to buy an acre. The big
squatters claimed security of tenure or pre-emptive
right, and this claim was upheld by a Government and a
Council under squatting domination. But for this
wretched system, a large agricultural population would
have been at once established, and the farmers would
have had in the goldfields splendid markets for their
produce. However, Victoria’s colossal blunder and loss
were S.A.’s salvation, as a large portion of the money
obtained at the diggings was invested in S.A. farming
land and in farm stock, and agriculture went ahead with
seven-league boots.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES.
GARROTTER: “ There's on’y a few coppers in this
‘kick,’ Bill.”
BILL (who has had farm-burning experience in
S’Africa): “’Ave a look in his bloomin’
mouth, can't yer ’E might ’ave gold in his
grinders.”
The Bulletin has received this type-
written letter from a Far-Western N.S.W. town,
and quotes it to show how mad the typewriter
can be when it tries :• —
Sept, "/rd 0.
dEar Sir
thE crickeT 51ub is in troubLE wjth their
neW CRICKET PIT£H $ would likE a suggestion frfm
.you R Spoßting ediTOR as to what sort oF gravel oR
claY wOuld b/e most for the TOP DRESING
of the sam? As the flub is. financially BushEd an
Economical!Y sound soheME wsoulD receivE most
gracious coNsiderPtioN(--. THANKINg You |n con-
tract TERMS & HOPING T 9 RECEIvE A favOrabl/e reply
hurßledl,Y yourS
W. 59xkk
hON-. SecY(.)
The sporting editor regrets that his ignorance of
the nature of the local soil makes it almost im-
possible to advise, but he is grateful for the above
letter, and will preserve it all his days, and when
he dies (of drink) it will be buried with him.
NO FIELD FOR BORROWING.
MRS. KINDHEART (of the Women's League):
“You must get very lonely sometimes. Don’t
you ever,visit your friends!”
HENRY (sadly): “’Tain't no use, lady. They’re
as ’ard up as I am."
The religious editor takes an afternoon
off :
We sat down on a weatherbeaten log in front of the
historic estate and drank in the beautiful stillness
which is a good, safe drink and non-intoxicating. Away
beyond the blue, silent hills was Lower George-street,
Sydney, with the everlasting trams, the screaming
parrot and the complex smells ; and, doubtless, they
were all going strong at that very instant. The trams
were crashing as hard as ever ; the parrot was screaming
just as loudly ; and the smells were defying Algebra to
unravel them and reduce them to plain figures or tears.
But we were safe in this remote, sun-warmed spot,- and
there were still three hours of sunshine left to us. We
revelled in the soothing reflection, but spake no words.
A half-made road strolled past the log in an aimless
fashion, wound up a gentle slope, and meandered off into
a patch of light scrub. Afar off, in the middle of the
harbor, a steamer, black with people, went silently on its
way with filmy smoke curling up from the funnel-top ;
and, back amongst the trees, the whistling of some Boy
Scouts called up old book memories of Tom Sawyer play-
ing Robin Hood with Jo Harper. In quite another
direction a bird or two twittered in a casual, care-free
fashion, and went on with its work —nesting, or looking
for grubs, or whatever it does at this time of year.
(I am no authority on birds.) The quiet beauty of
it was like velvet for fretted nerves, and we let
the silence accumulate until the jingle of a trace-chain
called our attention to the grove of trees fronting the
main entrance. An elderly retainer was proceeding down
the slope. He had the calm, comfortable look of the
man who has lived amongst peace and plenty for many
years ; also he looked as if he would be a hard person to
hurry. At that particular moment he was going for a
cow. The cow saw him coming, and ran to meet him
with a soft shuffle of cloven hoofs. He opened the gate,
drove the docile animal inside, and closed the gate again.
Then he went away in the direction of the old house, and
in a minute returned with a bucketful of water. “ There
y’ are, Biddy,” he remarked; “drink it up.” Biddy
sucked up every drop, and was starting to lick the utensil
dry when he pushed her to one side, and, catching up a
halter, tethered her to a stake underneath an old fruit
tree. Then he finally retired, and the cow settled down
to eat steadily of the grass through crevices in the old
paling fence. The cow is a beautifully restful animal if
you don’t happen Jo be its servant. The breaking of the
fresh, green grass as the bigmouth gathered it in we four d
very soothing. Nobody gave the cow a folded check and told
it to pay at the counter as it went out; it just cropped
peacefully with an occasional shuffle of hoofs as it moved
along. Five minutes or an hour tip-toed by, and then a
cart with a man and a boy on it came squeaking and jolt-
ing over the hill. The cart came down the slope, stopped
at the gate, and the man got down. The boy and the
horse stared curiously at us. The man took three loaves
of bread from the back of the cart and we knew he
was the bread carter, and that he had probably given evi-
dence before a Wages Board. Instead of taking the
bread up to the house, he just leaned over the fence and
stowed the three loaves inside a box arrangement, which
should have had a door on one end of it but didn’t. Then
he put his bill on top of the box and a large stone on the
bill to keep it down. After which he climbed on his cart
once more and drove off. We watched the cart roll
round the bend until it disappeared into the scrub, and
then we both remarked together, “ That was the baker! ”
The peacefulness of the place and the springsunshinehad
done their work, and our minds were working in
leisurely fashion ; also a blessed disinclination for
speech had descended upon us, and the one news-
paper we had brought from town lay hidden under a
coat. Five minutes or half an hour after the baker
had gone, we heard a woody rattle and a sound
something like corned beef falling on soft earth. We
investigated and found that Biddy had knocked a loaf out
of the box and was proceeding to eat it. We debated
whether we would rescue the food or allow the cow to
take its nourishment undisturbed. We decided to let the
cow go on. The fence and gate were both strung plenti-
fully with barbed wire, and a large notice on a tree said
that trespassers would be PROSECUTED. It was a large,
savage “PROSECUTED,” and it looked pretty weather-
beaten, so, no doubt, it had hurt the feelings of many
innocent picnickers in its time. We came to the con-
clusion that the owners of the historic estate were inhos-
pitable people who deserved to have their daily bread
eaten by the family cow. After settling the point and
nailing it down firmly, we gathered up several bushels of
wild flowers and wandered off westward a little sooner
than we had intended. It was sunset, anyhow, and we
wanted a walk ; another reason was that we did not want
the members of a great, historic family to come out and
find the cow eating the bread, or just the cow and no
bread. We thought if they were anything like their
notices they might possibly'accuse us of giving the sus-
tenance to the animal, or of eating it ourselves. And we
didn’t want to be prosecuted—possibly in the High Court.
“ Gip ” : “ Polstan ” says (B. 23/9/’O9) he
doesn’t want any aboriginaliar to qorne along with
yarns about old drowned snakes, because there
aren’t any. But floods do destroy snakes, whether
they drown them or not. As youngsters on the
Clarence (N.S.W.) we found snakes entangled in
the shrubs in the garden when the waters sub-
sided. Of course they may have died of whooping
cough or.measles, hut I never expect to seeany thing
that has a more drowned look about it. It was not
unusual to see a big snake, disgust writ large oh his
haughtily-held head, , tearing fiercely seawards
with the pumpkins and other wild fowl. And at
that time there was no excuse for a Clarence River
snake of the meanest intelligence. Floods
happened with maddening regularity. Just as
you had scraped the foot or so of slush from your
floors, and relaid the carpets and brought the
piano down from the roof, up came the river again.
You’d have thought any old snake left over from
the flood before would have given the others the
tip to flee to higher ground. Monaro floods have
a peculiarity of their own. On the Clarence it
had to rain heavily for days before a . mildly
anxious populace gathered round the post office
to read the weather wires from Tabalum and
Coprnanhurst higher up. The “rise” there told
them just when to go home and pack. Here, in
the Monaro, you are walking along the dry bed
of a creek, perhaps thinking it looks like rain, and
wondering how you’re going to manage if
it doesn't rain, and then suddenly, just
as you’re thinking that, it does rain, in
drops as big as hen eggs. Then the land-
scape dissolves, and if you’re not pretty slick in
getting on to higher ground, you’re apt to be hit
by a black wall of water, or your neighbor’s crop,
or his pet milker, or his outhouse or barbed wire
fence. Under these circumstances, unprepared
snakes are sometimes swept off their feet, so to
speak, and a nearby squatter declares that he
found several very drowned snakes mixed up with
his three miles or so of wrecked wire-fencing after
our last big summer storm.
ROVERS’ WIVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s many a tale that was told of old
In praise of the rovers’ lives ;
But this is a tale that has not been told—
That tells of the rovers’ wives—
Of the hearts that ache, and the hearts that break,
And the eyes that weep for the rovers’ sake,
And the letter that ne’er arrives.
Of women who wait through the dreary years,
With never a thought unkind ;
Who struggle with fate and a woman’s fears
And think of the years behind.
For their joys are fled, and their hopes lie dead,
And they look with dread to the years ahead,
As the scrolls of their lives unwind.
Of women who weep while the children sleep,
And work while the children play—
Who have bread to win and a home to keep
And the rent and bills to pay—
Who scheme and fend while the rovers spend,
And who stitch and mend while the rovers wend
Their careless steps away.
For the dawn of day has never a ray
Of light for the rover’s wife.
And the sun of her life has died away
In the grip of a hopeless strife.
So her heart may ache, and her heart may break,
And her tears may flow for the rover's sake,
And the wreck of a wasted life.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASLEY.


r* «
LULLn
FOR
More Miles PerGailonThan AnvOtraKiffl
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
That Incessant Tickling
In the throat, and all throat and chest troubles,
promptly relieved by Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. Price Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle.*
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties.
Send full particulars, with all plans and reports
available, to “ MINE,” care J. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
WRISTLET
ARE THE
LATEST
RAGE.
They have come
to stay.
?r & %
WATCHES
Reliable Watches,
15 jewels, in the
new Expanding:
Gold Bracelets,
from £5/5/- up-
wards. Set with
Pearls, £ll/11/-
WHY?
Fashion’s decree of “no
pocket ” calls for some safe
way to carry a watch —
They have a very handsome appearance-
They are distinguished looking.
WE MA.KE THE BRACELETS. ‘ We set them with Diamonds, with Pearls, with Turquoises.
We sell only reliable Lever Watches at bedrock prices. SEE our large stock of Jewelled Case Watches.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
“Shan” : The races, yesee, wuz ahl right,
wid ther leppin’ an’ chasin’ an’ bettin’ (I wan a
bob sweep meself), but the fun av ahl' wuz the
feight betune Paddy Carey and Jack Hurley.
Yesee, Paddy’s mare wan the lasht race on a
protist. Afther the races wuz inded, we wint up
to Grace's pub for a bite to ate, and afther tay, av
coorse, there wuz great argifying betwixt Carey
and Hurley about who art to hev had ut. D’ye
see phat I mane. Well, afther passin’ a few comp-
liments, Hurley said, “Paddy Carey, if yez do be
sayin’ that I wan the clock at the bazaar foul,
thin I say that yer a loiar ! ” Carey dhropped
him with a right cross, an’ big Jack Loughnan ups
and sez, sez he, “Phat the Divil arr yez doin’
scrappin in the bah-arr. Get up to wan ov the
cattle pins and foight loike the dacent rispictable
min that yez are,” sezee. So up to the cattle
pins we wint, the whole crowd ov us, and be the
toiine we got there, instid of wan fpight ther
wuz five or six ov thim. Ould Peter Ryan hit
Jerry Dooley, and thin, because Larry Walker
wint to pick Jerry up, Mickie Walsh hit him
over the ear; and Bob Clancy and Roger
YASSBERRA.
Another view of the proposed Australian capital site at Yassberra.
Loughlin got shparrin’. So phwat wid scrappin’,
and houldin’ lights, and lukin’ after coats the
divil a wan av us but what wuz busy. Bedad !
it was th’ father an’ two uncles av a row ! Will,
afther they’d bin slashin’ away at one another f’r
a good half-hour, ould Danny Brady—who’d bin
dancin’ about wid a stable lantern—up an’
“Clancy have a notion ! ” he squheals. Wid that,
we ahl give over an’ wint back to thepub, and there,
begob, wuz Carey and Hurley sittin’ on the binch
shoutin’ for wan anither ! An’ all the time us
fools out there had been finishin’ their fight fer
thiru !
BUSH HOTEL. TEMPERATURE , 110°.
BUSH BUNG (hurriedly): “Mary, herds the coach! Play th' pianny rale loud so they won't
shmell the mate."
“S.H.S.” : I saw a worm turn the other
day. The thing occurred in a drought-stricken
and hence temporarily stony portion of Outback.
The gyrator, kept a store, and presently one
entered who owed him £24. The debtor owned
frankly that he couldn’t pay; but, said he
cheerily, ‘‘ Come and have a drink?” The worm
replied, “ I already have a £7OO sulky horse, and
a £250 buggy, and now you aslr me to have a £24
drink...!” He was still turning blasphemously
when I left.
The breathless narrative of “ Jacko ” :
I rite to. say that it is a grate pity that steam has been
diskivered before now, bekos if it wasn’t I would have
diskivered it the other day, when I was burning off I
burned down a holler tree that had sum water cort in
part of the barrell, and I set it alite at the top hend when
it fell and after a while I saw steam issueing forth and
when it started corning out of the fifth place the bloom-
ing thing started walking about the paddock and I ran
and got a big chane to tie it up to another tree and it
broak it and the blarsted log steamed into my lucen
patch and I think the steam gave out there for the log
burned away and destroid a lot of the lucen.l So if the
other chap hadent bean so observant with the kittle and
its lid, it would have fell to my lot to diskiver it, which
isn’t my fault, but father’s, me not being born soon
enough, which is rotten luck. P.S.—I hope Mrs. Buller-
tin' and the kids are well.
“Starfish” : If nominations are un-
limited allow me to submit my entries for the
James Pannikin ” queerly-named station com-
petition : Willybingbone, Billybingbone (Willie is
on the Marra Creek, which empties into the Up-
per Darling ; Billie is just back of Willie), Merry -
winebone. Blue Nobby, Boco, Four Bob, Wonbob-
bie, Slapdash, Book Book, Kickerbil, Tilbuster,
Jumping Sandhill Well, Terry Hie Hie, Doodle
Cooma, Boomanoomana, Mug Mug Wng, Berry
Jerry, Tin Pot Alley, Tintinallogy, Gegedzerick,
Mumblebone, Tucka Tucka, Dine Dine, Break-
fast Creek, Blanket Flat, Nap Nap, Guy
Fawkes, Wait-a-While, Gummin Gummin, and
Gunningbung. As a set-off against “J.P.’s”
Will-I-Go-Bung, I enter Garnpung, one of
Big Ben Chaffey’s erstwhile holdings. Big
Ben himself, however, instead of being bung
or anywhere near it, is one of the most flourishing
squatters in the Commonwealth ; and besides
squatting, he runs a line of steamboats on the
Murray and the Darling when water permits.
But to get back to the competition for half a
minute, all those I have nominated are in N. S.
Wales, and I’ll take, any inquirer to any one of
them if he’ll shout the motor-car.
“ J.G.” : Re “Jimmie Pannikin’s” com-
petition for curiously-named stations. On the
West Coast (Vic.) one man called his place “ The
Cove,” probably because it was near one on the
coast. After a while somebody else came and
took up the next block, and to match the other
place he called his “ The Bloke.”
“ Pick ” : Re queerly-named stations. On
the Marulan to Bungonia road (N.S.W.) there are
“Fair Hoax ” and “ Darby’s Folly, ” both notable
for their breed of wallabies. In the Jin-
gera country three side-bv-side cattle runs are
“Big Badger,” “Slap Up,” and “ Count-a-
Guinea”; while among the spurs of the South
Coast range lie the “Tinpot,” “Pintpot,” and
“ Brassknocker ” cattle stations ; and “ Teapot ”
is a sheep run on the MacLaughlin River.
* * * *
“Sheet Anchor”: Re station names
(B. 9/9/’0!) and 23/9/’O9). Strangely enough neither
of the contributors who referred to the Tumba-
rumba (N.S.W.) district mentioned Neurdnmerren-
mung—which belonged to Henry Ricketson (now
deceased), of Billabong, Marsden. Anotherqueer
name is Eunonyhareenyha, near Wagga. Does
any Bulletin reader know its meaning?
“Dick H.” : Ri “ Mallacoota’s ” par on
the.varied usefulness of the kerosene-tin and the
cornsack. That writer forgot to mention that the
case in which the tin arrives is a large item in
bush economy. Feed-boxes for horses, tucker-
boxes for the men, bird-cages, dog-kennels, seats
and tables are made of it, and Mrs. Cocky uses it
for packing eggs and setting hens in. ' lam at
present using one such case for a writing-desk; and
with the aid of a pocket-knife and some colored
wool “ the girls ” are turning another into a fire-
screen. Greenhide is also worthy of honorable
mention by the bush-poet when he runs out of
other topics. Besides being generally used for
patching harness and boots and making whips, it
is manufactured into bridles, girths, stirrup-
leathers, hat-bands, boot-laces and leg-ropes.
Broken tool-handles and cracked shafts are
mended with it, and the calf and pet lamb use it
for chewing-gum.
SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the season of the year
When wood-nymphs wink and satyrs leer,
And publicans set in more beer
For thirsty patrons ;
Whilst round about the crowded Block,
The fancy vest and fashion sock
Are donned by youths who wish to “ knock”
Fair maids and matrons.
This is the time when droves of “ potes,”
With hair like wild Angora goats,
Put on their inked and faded coats,
And climb the stairs
With countless rolls of papyri,
To some dark editorial sty,
And mildly question “ When ? ” and “ Why ? ”
And meet fierce glares.
This is the time when each old swell
Does things he wouldn’t like to tell;
Remarks, “ The Firm is bound for H 1,
And needs attention.”
States that he’s working back. Oh lor !
And wobbles home at half-past four,
Waving a lobster at the door,
Too (hie) to mention.
This is the time when great male brutes
Inspect their last year’s bathing-suits,
And ready make to shoot their shoots
Upon the briny ;
And gay girls watch each fashion-plate,
To have their beach-gear up to date,
Then sally forth to tempt their fate,
All bright and shiny.
This is the season of the year,
Of stout and oysters, prawns and beer ;
Of lobsters, mushrooms, all good cheer
And moonlight revels.
Of sweet boronia, daffodils,
Asparagus and liver pills,
Hallucinations, fevers, chills,
Also blue devils.
N.S.W.
HORACK HALLGORAN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a, hostile character) will be taken of
coimnunieations insuiiiciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on .1 tSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Malthas: Cuttings and letter to hand, but as
Mr. Frank Fox has no connection whatever with the
literary department of either The Bulletin or The Lone
Hand, and has had none for a considerable time, we don’t
see that we have any right to complain of his present
political opinions. In fact, we don’t see why you
should send the cuttings to us at all R. W.T. :
No, the verse isn’t “ good enough for illustra-
tion,” nor for anything else under the sun.
...Radium: Re cancer. There is one point that is
worth remembering. The increase in cancer deaths is to
some extent bogus. Cancer is mainly a disease of old
age. Comparing 1880 with 1902, it is questionable if there
is any real increase in the cancer death-rate of people under
45—among females there is a decrease in some States.
Above the age of 45 the increase is enormous ; but that,
may really mean that in the old insanitary days very few
people lived to reach the age when cancer gets to work in
dead earnest. Now quite a multitude live long enough
to get the complaint... J. H. Claremont: (1) O’Farrell
hanged, April 21, 1868. (2) Cable got to work, October
22, 1872. . .Lowell: Gravy beef poem has its humor ; but
it wants trimming. Even a gravy beef poem doesn’t
look well when cut out with a circular saw, especially if
the saw has a tooth or two missing C.M.: Stories qiiite
hopeless It. W. Taylor: Too late for publication
before elections, and it’s no use firing off damp squibs
after victory....H. Hauptmann: You sing, “Give me
Satan every time!” Sorry can’t oblige. We’ve sacked
him J.T.H. : Spirited as cold water on awet night
Marie: Take no stock either in LIFE’S “Ten Demand-
ments”or in your “sequel” to them H.C.J. : Vain
repetition of hard-worked theme R. Paul: You didn’t
pluck the flowers because you’d sorrowed many hours.
Well? K.C.R. : Bad rhymes about Judkins. Inebri-
ated, also libellous... Salome: Why mother’s hair got
white is of interest only to the home circle—and possibly
the dyejsell r Y.K.G. : Dilapidated narrative about.
first cousins marrying and mother falling into a pit
so as to save them funeral expenses, sent away for re-
pairs B. Reynolds: Servant girl-silly boy romance
heartily despised by both papers M.A. : Elegant poem
in which you express the benevolent desire “ to bestrew
this editor’s room with guts ” and otherwise insinuate
that you don’t approve of his declining certain valued
contributions, tremblingly lowered into the basket
J.I.M. : No use for mechanical person who “ will
verse any topical events with our approval.”
P. W. Hollands: Soul-devastating lyric about “ My
mother’s only son and my father’s only boy ” sang itself
to a troubled sleep. No, on your life don’t send us any
of the other things C.M.: Poor" Abo." elongated into
weary yarn Polstan : Villain too long a-dying
Young : Yes, unless there are special rules to the con-
trary S.V.M. : A long way off our beat; but will
inquire The Undersigned : Statistics uninteresting....
M. A. Reid: Treatment better than stale old idea
deserves Tara : Nothing fresh in idea or treatment
Seecasey: Verses not worthy of any consideration. ..
The Boy: Piffle — E.R.: Your verses hurt The
Bulletin’s “critical eye” badly. Also you will be in-
terested to know that there are seven distinct and
expensive libels in five of them—which is above our
average F.J. W. : Counter-lunching dog not a thrilling
circumstance O. N. Oakley : Theory that dead Vikings
got alive again and peopled the waste places of the land
might fitly be debated by young women’s society. Your
verses tell against it, rather M. Rymer: Tried “The
Pathos of True Love ” —about the wife who departed to
sit by Peter and keep a look-out for her spouse, and
about the husband who hustled after her to see she didn’t
lead the aged saint astray—tried it on the Fighting
Editor. The Strong Man lost his punch and swore like
Athanasius. And then “ Thawarted ” —prose poem (with
a weird name) about the bold bad man and the pure,
unspotted lamb—committed suicide by drowning itself in
“The Pathos of True Love.” Letter for T. B. Coeat
this office marked “Very urgent.” Tahmy: Met
Brudder Johnson, and, being stale, was knocked out in
one round Vipond : “This story is quite true.” We
would rather it were interesting Strathnaver, Lupus,
and 6413 others : Can’t acknowledge paragraphs ; space
won’t run it. If they are good enough, the print is
sufficient answer; if they are no good, or somebody
else has got in first, the basket swallows them
without leaving an irikspot behind B. B.B.: “ Proscribed
Immigrant” nearly made good, but not quite...
A.B.S. : “The Morning After” apparently written the
night before... .Aegis: Tangled incoherency of plot and
counter-plot. Also, you forgot to add the denouement.
Anyway, Daphne wasn’t “ a bride by proxy ” at all. One
of the Johnnies was a bridegroom by proxy, and you
leave us in harassing ignorance as to which of them—if
either—was the happy man P.T.B. : Nothing remark-
able about the “coffin’d fare” being inside'the hearse.
You wouldn’t have him driving it, would you? Gin :
Perhaps this stanza is the brightest gem in your two
priceless collections :
Seen in the sunlight gilded youth sit
Killing- the ladies muchly dead wit
Lightens the hour
When the heads quaint and unquestioned selection
Draw the remark “ She’s as far from perfection
As thou are ”
The absence of commas and so forth heightens the
charm if it docs make the meaning somewhat obscure....
E. Perrottett: No J.P. was ever worth so much space as
you want us to give to your friend Black Opal: Corso
girl too long and thin—the poem, that is, not the lady...
A. Carter : No room for poem singing the vain but nervy
efforts of a fat policeman to catch a sulky, with, presum-
ably (though you don’t mention it), horse-attachment
A.E.C. : The,poet is born, not made. Please consider
yourself unborn... H.J.L. : The reply to the question
about how to make a Venetian blind used to be: “ Throw'
a lump of mud in his eye.” That was in our boyhood’s
happy days Sutfol: Distressful doggerel.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Frank K. : There doesn’t seem to be any reason for it.
What is the world supposed to learn from a picture of
Kitchener on a wooden horse? P.J.H. : Some promise
about them, but not nearly enough performance
M. Bourke: Inexpressibly hopeless, and jokes have hung
too long on the spreading chestnut tree Bob Shaw:
The same joke was much better illustrated in this paper
a very short time ago... Ada D.: What is the use of
sending along sketches with no -instructions as to
return, and then sending stamps for return a month
after the documents have gone to their long ash-
Bourke: Drawings amateurish. ..M.M. :
Three pictures, and not a gleam of merit among them
Isos : That joke is old enough to be a bald-headed out-
rage.... Leo: Hopeless, artistically and otherwise. ...
P.T. (Rockhampton): Even if your election picture had
been of some value, what chance d6 you suppose the
thing had when it arrived about an hour before the last
sheet.of the paper went to press? Have you no sense of
time and space ? And, though you want it returned, you
send no stamps. . .Geo. W. R. : We have no artist who is
capable of drawing that mad confusion of bullocks.


THAT HUNGER STRIKE.
ARTIFICIAL FEEDING OF THE SUFFRAGETTES.
HOW IT IS DONE.
Warder (to assistant): “ Now, then. Bill, you say something to aggravate her,
and when she opens her mouth to talk back (as she can’t help doin’), I’ll
pump a dose of this ’ere bean soup into her before she knows where
she Is 1 ”
ON THE DOORMAT.
AS a result of the representations made by him to the ninister for
External Affairs, Mr. Pulsford hopes that the final result will be that
the Chinese professor who was refused admission into Australia will
be admitted.
London, Saturday.—Dr. William
Speirs Bruce is preparing a Scot-
tish expedition to attempt to reach
the South Pole.
If the sum of £50,000 is forth-
coming, Dr. Bruce’s party will
start before 1911.
The Incorporated Law Society has re-
solved in favor of conferring limited
divorce jurisdiction upon County Courts,
thereby bringing divorce within reach
of the poorer classes.
WHAT ’TWILL COME TO.
Grocer (to customer) : “We give away
a divorce with that brand. Shall 1
put one up lor you ? ”
The question is, Would the kilt be suitable to the climate ?
I hae my doots.
COLD COMFORT PERSONIFIED.—A
kilted Scot sitting in a snowdrift try-
ing to eat frozen parritc'h.
London, Friday.—The dinner which the Explorers’ Club of New York pro-
posed to give in honor of Dr. Cook jhas been postponed pending an investifca-
tion of his claims that be ascended jViount M’Kinlay.
“Ah, well!” sighed Dr. Cook, “I must bide my time”; and he went away
on his own and dined frugally off a piece of pumpkin pie at a “stand-up”
lunch-counter.
FROM PULSFORD TO THE POLE.


'sfa fid lf*t Melboo. rnfe +ooK"
more
-R wo«ia »»<»i'«.
still 1 if
"tegetfar
doesn't SVne
M*r*Wl Hulls' ice !
'to
*+" X
of
f?e^ffes h
%
,00
0“"
WM/w
is s H ir “
in - V/nwmens
Me- OW V* io S
/M^niSLE*^lit-
q'.\\
-Defence »\ to
ss-»***
S^w€ /
lihKT
\ -A y i>^ r ,
kb' Cly
*yuA.<i h
Kee*\> its
€ye ©*>.
Co^ne-
ml pi i|l| J l '" )' in | i „ •'
JJfg. yorrr) A DoWn-foor;
v r ’’v»fiL
*«*•**&*s
j|!&L P *
W ’ **-
||L
Afw
'A c t»4ot:
AfcUn't' ’ /Adored Owe J If''
lit Boltin if Viife-W cAr* !£<sftj! ■' f
* CHorV*, of —* , M^>.
t oood vrowt^n
w& jAtfilort n« IVT< nuy>^**4,
•(Sf K«t*w(<doe V«>«n<2.SS *«H b< on
>B %&■«*«• »(: O.'-a*, 1 ' to ?o« l "
MOSTLY MELBOURNE.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Frenzied With Fear
Are many who develop lung trouble. Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for coughs and colds will
cure them. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
On the railroad you hear of their fame
If you cross the wide ocean the same;
Our Pills Laxo-Tonic
Cure ills that are chronic,
And thousands are blessing- their name.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10£d. and Is, 6d.*
SAID TO RELIEVE ALL RHEUMATISM.
Tvis simple prescription is said to perform remarkable
cures, in many cases after years of suffering-.
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce ; Syrup Rhu-
barb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound, one ounce ;
and Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Mix by shaking well in a bottle, and take in teaspoon-
ful doses after each meal and at bedtime. These ingredi-
ents can be obtained at a moderate cost from any good
chemist, and are harmless and will not injure the most
delicate stomach.
It has a peculiar effect upon the kidneys, assisting these
most important organs to filter and strain from the blood
the uric acid, urea, etc., which cause the pain and misery
of rheumatism. As a blood cleansing agent and system
tonic it is of unusual merit.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Standing out from Mr. Sam Hordern’s will
is the manifest desire to make Retford Hall,
Sydney, an ancestral home. The second Anthony
Hordern built it, and the original Airs. Anthony
Hordern died there.
Another likely man is now being men-
tioned for the about-to-be-vacant billet of Com-
missioner of Police in S. Aus. —Colonel Reade, an
ex-journalist, who led a S.A. band to the Boer
chase, but who now does his swashbuckling in
Queensland.
In spite of his 83 years the veteran Bur-
govne, M.P., leader of the Country party in the S.A.
Assembly, looked hale and hearty until his wife
died a fortnight or so back. But that blow stag-
gered him. In a few weeks he has aged terribly ;
aud now he looks worn, haggard and pathetic.
Mrs. Kimberley, of Collector (N.S.W.),
who died on September 23, had put up something
like a record ; she had kept the township hotel for
60 years. The house was visited several times by
bushrangers. On one occasion Constable Nelson
was shot dead at her doorway by John Dunn, who
was executed for the offence at Darlinghurst.
Dave Gordon, leader of the Adelaide
Register staff, severs his connection with that
paper on October 15, in order to begin his cam-
paign for the Senate. Editor Sowden would
dearly have liked the nomination himself, but
there were difficulties in the way. Gordon intends
to visit every accessible town in S.A., so as to let
the people see him and learn his own views and
the views of the “National” Ass which carries
him.
“Jean Sibi ” : Two men now survive of
the first Service (Vic.) Ministry—the one which
the eminently respectable wine merchant ran for
five months in 1880. They are Chief Justice
Madden and John Gavan Duffy. There were
three until the passing of Bent. Of Bent’s
colleagues in the O’Loghlen Ministry, only three
are now surviving. They comprise J. H. Graves,
a retired octogenarian, who was then Commissioner
of Trade and Customs ; Walter Madden, boss of a
Trustee co., but then Minister for Lands ; and
Dr. L. L. Smith, Honorary Minister—the one
who asked the young man if he felt well. Bent
had the Railway Muddle portfolio under Bryan
the Baronet.
From the Gallery :
An old Parliamentary hand, now close up to 80, who
hopes to get back to the N.S.W. Assembly within a
decade or two, if not sooner, is Dr. Andrew Ross, who
continuously represented Molong from 1880 to 1904. He
was returned to 10 Parliaments, sometimes because he
was unopposed, but more often because half a dozen can-
didates split up the atiti-Ross vote and didn’t touch the
small but solid Ross vote. The first fight was the toughest
the explosive doctor fought. He met “ Jackv ” Smith
(afterwards M.L.C.), father of a race of robust wool-
growers, who got within six votes of Dr. Ross.
A fortnight later Parkes nominated “Jacky”
to the Legislative Council, and he stayed there
without electoral anxieties till his death in 1895.
His son Jago (now M.L.0.) once tried to reverse the
Ross verdict; but he also failed. A sensational contest
was put up by Willoughby Andrew, who, later, had a
still more sensational encounter with draper Bartlett, in
King street, Sydney. Willoughby Andrew arrived in
Molong as an insurance canvasser, and attended
Dr. Ross’s meeting in the School of Arts hall.
He asked questions till the doctor boiled. An
ardent Rossite intervened with his fists—with
disastrous results to himself. Willoughby, having dis-
posed of the doctor’s champion, announced hisintention of
disposing of the doctor. He was just in time for nomi-
nation, and the polling in a vast constituency was only a
few days off ; but he galloped through the electorate
and conducted a greased-lightning campaign. He
wasn’t beaten by many votes either. In the end
Orange was joined to Molong, and “Jupp” Gardiner
and Labor ended the long- Parliamentary reign of Dr.
Ross. It was mentioned how John Smith was handicapped
in the doctor’s first campaign. He had more to contend
against. A Scottish kinswoman of Dr. Ross raised an
election cry—“ Juhn Smuth’s nut the mon fer us. He
p’unds y’r goots.” John Smith’s Gamboola estate did
abut on the municipality of Molong, but there is no record
that the pioneer pastoralist ever impounded a neighbor’s
goats. Still, the cry of the kinswoman carried far, and
it anyhow reminded scores of electors that “Jacky”
Smith was a squatter.
TOO DIFFICULT.
UNCLE SAM (to Cook and Peary): “ Wat, ef you
two coots are so tarnation set on discoveries ,
why don't one of you find out when the
Johnson-Jeffries fight takes place?"
C. AND P: “ Give us suthin’ easy; remember we
on’y found the Pole."
N.S.W. Judge Heydon’s subject at the
Catholic Congress this year—Francis Thompson,
poet and suicide —had a depressing sound, and it
was just as well that circumstances got in the way
and the dreary business was not fully gone into.
At a previous Congress, some nine years ago, the
same gentleman got in a few remarks about
criminals. He thought there was a lot to be said
for some of the old methods of treating criminals,
and cast a regretful backward glance at the
strenuous ways of the past. Whipping he re-
garded as a useful and rather neglected institu-
tion. It was an interesting and informative
address in its way. That is to say, it didn’t in-
form the audience greatly on the subject of
criminals, but it informed it a good deal as to Mr.
Heydon’s state of mind.
SELF-DENIAL.
“ We were married 20 years before either of us knew that the other was fond of onions ?”
Adelaide, which has gone in extensively for
statues lately, though 20 years ago it had none,
is offered a family group in memory of George
Fife Angas, one of the founders of the Province.
The other member of the group is to be his son,
John Howard Angas, lately dead, a free-handed
philanthropist, but most widely known as a big
landlord and a breeder of shorthorns. (His
executors, who carry on the stud by his desire,
swept the board at Adelaide Show lately.)
The statuary is to be the gift of the Angas family,
and the only dubious point seems to l e whether
the site asked for —-opposite Light and McDouall
Stuart, and facing the G.P.O.—is not already
pledged for an expected figure of Sturt.
The Port Melbourne Branch of the local
Political Labor Council has formally declined to
commit itself to any resolution on the subject of
the departed Bent. This comes as a refreshing
variation upon the general guff re the deceased’s
stupendous character, virtues and accomplish-
ments. It shows that there are still a few' people
in Melbourne who realise that death doesn’t make
any man’s character a w'hit better than it was
before. The theory that nothing save what is
good should be spoken of the dead is a curious
affair. It seems to apply only for a certain time
—length of time unspecified. Among the dead
are Cain, Gehazi, J. Iscariot, Barabbas, John of
England, the Borgias, Sodom and Gomorrah, the
Inquisition, Dagon, Moloch, Jezebel and possibly
the Devil—at least no one has seen the last-named
around lately, And yet even Archbishops throw
clods at them. Very often the best thing to say
about the dead is just nothing at all.
Alcock, maker of most of Australia’s
billiard-tables, has at last 4 retired to the
quiet life that should accompany old age.
It is 50 years since the now well-known
name was first placed on a table. The
pioneer had a hard job to get slates in those
days, but some of the early settlers had
brought houses of slate slabs from the Cold
Country and had put them up in Colling-
wood, and these Aleock snapped up when-
ever he could. Marble made an equally
good top but meant much more prelimin-
ary work. Though improvements have
been made all round, the standard size—
12ft. by 6ft.—has not altered, though the
old man once built a special table 15ft. by
6ft. for a Spencer-street hotel. The cushions
were the greatest trouble; and after the
cushions the ivory balls, elephants’ sawn-
off tusks not being built to stand heat.
Five days’ very hot weather once ruined
£lOO worth of ivory which Alcock had
bought in the rough. Compo has done
away with all that, and given the elephant
a moment’s breathing time. Though
Alcock has built so many of the tools of the
game, has written a book on billiards, and
framed the code of rules now accepted
throughout Australia, he himself has never
played. But always he has used Australian
materials wherever possible, has employed
Australian mechanics, and has been a
patriotic citizen of his adopted country.
Of course the business still goes on.
The difference between Brassey and
Bent was that Brassey fell off and Bent fell
down. Bent didn’t fall off because he
never ascended a horse or a bicycle, but
he had a curious habit in his late years of
sinking heavily. Eight of Bent’s unac-
countable falls are on record, and once it is said
he was nearly ruined through trusting some large
land deals to an incompetent friend when he was
in bed after one of his drops, and unable to go out
and deal in land himself.
Tom Mann is going to give Sydney three
sixpenny samples of himself before he quits
Australia for Europe; about the middle of this
month he will blow off, in the Protestant Hall, at
the price mentioned above. Among other things,
he proposes to “handle the exponents of so-called
Australian Socialism ” —the Socialism which con-
sists in doing things a bit at a time, instead of
talking about doing the lot (at sixpence a time)
and doing nothing.
“General” Booth, the astonishing old
man whose collecting implement is the tambour-
ine, threatens to descend on Australia again some
time next year. “ Commissioner” Hay, the local
Sal. Army boss, is the bearer of the awful tidings
Before leaving the irrepressible patriarch in Eng-
land, he ventured to remark that a feeling of
sorrow would pervade the Army if it felt his last
visit had been paid to the Commonwealth. The
proper answer to such a speech was a few words
of gentle resignation; but the old dynamo just
whirred back : “ Don’t alarm yourself, man ; I’m
coming out next year ! ” According to his faithful
ambassador, the ancient smiter of the big drum
pursues the collection as furiously as ever, and
sky pilots fifty years his junior pant hopelessly in
his wake.
Carlo Marina, owner of Moppity station,
near Young (N.S.W.), who died last week, was
one of Garibaldi’s soldiers. He had resided at
Young (old Lambing Flat) for nearly half a
century. A brother, Camilla Marina, who lives
at Kiama. also served under Garibaldi, and was
among some half-a-dozen survivors of a regiment
which had a bad time in one of the red-shirted
hero’s engagements.
“ Speaker’s Gallery ” says things ;
The Wade Cabineteers of N.S.W. carry frugality almost
to the last farthing. They appear to come into town
with 2s. each, and get home with a balance. A benefi-
cent gold pass spares their tram and train fares. They
avoid hotels, and thereby dodge that extravagant
expression, “fill ’em up again.” As strangers are no
longer admitted to the Parliamentary refreshment room,
on account of Dan O’Connor’s habit of taking the hemi-
sphere’s distinguished visitors in to dinner three nights a
week—and oftener when the House wouldn’t adjourn—
Ministers invite no guests to that expensive department
of the House. Then there is a Ministerial motor car
waiting whenever a Wade One is called out to sample the
hot soup or cold turkey of a festive function. The same
motor car on country Ministerial trips dashes past the
leading hotels and halts at hospitable private
establishments. The Ministers have never been
known to subscribe to anything. They blessed
Mayor Taylor’s Dreadnought Fund, but never frittered a
farthing on it. It has not known that anybody has ever
bitten bread with them. They haven’t a wineglass on
the premises, and such a thing as a cigar has never
escaped them. They are a dry, juiceless, joyless lot, and
look as though they limit themselves to corned beef
and marine biscuits. There was a time when N.S.W.
Cabineteers remembered their fellow members. Premier
Reid would choke you with chocolates. Premier Lyne
would press you to help yourself. Premier See waved
his hand towards the refreshments to indicate that they
were there. Premier Oarrutbers extracted the cork.
The Wade people never mention it. They are the unsur-
passed economists of Macquarie-street.
JOSEPH WARD , BOSS OF MAORILAND.
Australia’s most effective landscape gar-
dener, W. R. Guilfoyle, retired from active work
at the close of September after 36 years’steady
toil. He leaves behind him a monument that will
last at least a few generations. Starting in 1873
with 100 acres of rough gully and a few flower
beds and shrubs, Guilfoyle has provided Mel-
bourne with Botanical Gardens that it has every
right to be proud of. Though there is nothing
labored about them, they are in reality the result
of years of study and experiment. Nothing has
been done at random ; everything has been part
of a plan. Guilfoyle joined the Challenger in ’6B,
and visited the South Sea Islands, Papua and
Ceylon. There he saw that eminent landscape
gardener. Nature, working on a large scale with
abundant materials, and not being above taking
a hint he made notes of how the old lady did
things, and imitated her.
THE DISILLUSIONED FUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia wants its work done. It is paying, and paying
pretty dearly, to have it done. Instead of doing that
work, Ministers are engaged in an elaborate game of
make-believe, which is as destructive to their reputations
as it is harmful to the public interests. There is not the
slightest use in saying smooth things and keeping up a
hypocritical pretence in the face of the manner in which
every great Australian issue is being either burked or
paltered with. The truth must come ont,.-—Melbourne
Age.
Beneath a lamp in Spring-street, on a recent calm spring
night,
I came unwittingly upon a most pathetic sight;
A sorry spectacle of woe—a limp, despondent Bloke
Who leaned against a post and sobbed and said his heart
was broke !
“ I’ve lorst me trust in ’uman men ; I’ve done me dash
tcr-day ;
Fer my own cobber’s done me in, an’ guv me game
away ! ”
“ Nay, nay,” said I, “ cheer up, good Bloke. The prospect
may look blue ;
But Fate is wont to deal hard-knocks to folk like me and
you.
Remember, men have fought and won an uphill fight
before.
Pray, tell me what’s befallen you that you should grieve
so sore.
Say, has your wife deserted you, or have you lost your
tin ?’’
But still the Bloke said bitterly : “Me cobber’s done me
in ! ”
“ Me moniker’s Deakook,” he said, “ but blokes calls me
‘ The Fuse.’ ”
(Oh, ’struth ! I nearly dropped me bundle when I ’eard
the noos !)
1 gets a job o’ work to do—a real soft cop it wus,
Without no foreman over me ter see ’ow much I does,
Excep’ some coves they calls the Press—a noisy sorter
crew
Thet ollus nags an’ growls at yer no matter wotcher do.
“Some wanted this, some wanted that, an’ uvers wanted
bofe.
Thinks I, ‘ Between ’em all it’s up ter me ter do a loaf.’
So I jus’ took ter sittin’ round all day an’ crackin’ jokes,
An’ dealin’ out a bit o’ stoush ter Opposition blokes.
There wus a press cove called the Hage took ter me frum
the first;
But blimey ” —(Here the poor Bloke sobbed as though his
heart would burst.)
“ Yuss, frum the first ’e took ter me, an’ we wus goin’
fine,
Until I come ter look on ’im as quite a pal o’ mine.
Fer when’e sez, ‘You’ll ’ave ter graft on this’ere job,
yer know,’
I winks an’ murmurs ‘Dicken,’ an’ ’e winks an’ sez
‘ Righto ! ’
An when I jus’ perten’s ter graft ’e cracks ’e doesn’t see ;
So I jus’ grins an’ winks at ’im, an’ ’e jus’ winks at me.
“O, blimey ! Them was golding days, wif not a stroke
ter do
Excep’ ter line up ev’ry week an’ dror me bloomin’ screw.
O’course, ther’s some thet chips at me an’bellers in a
rage ;
But I jus’grins an’tips the wink ter ’im they calls the
Hage.
An’ ’e speaks up quite serious ; ‘ ’Ow kin I work,’ sez ’e,
‘ When these ’ere Opposition blokes are all obstructin’
me ? ’
“My oath, it wus an orlright cop ! I thort I’d struck it
rich.
’Ow could I know ” (again he sobbed) “ thet ’e would crool
me pitch ?
One day ’e sez, quite sudding like, ‘ This job must be put
thro’
An’ I jus’ winks an’ murmurs, ‘ Dicken,’ like I useter do.
But strike ! You could ’ave outed me in one, when, ’fore
I knowed,
E’ turns around on me an sez, quite narsty, ‘ You be
blowed ! ’
“ ‘ You’ll ’ave ter get ter work,’ ’e sez, ‘ on this ’ere job,
or leave.
Fer w’y,’ ’e sez, ‘ I’m sick o’ this ’ere game o’ make-believe.
Yer jus’ perten’ ter work,’ ’e sez. ‘Yer’re loafin’day an’
night.
Don’t grin an’wink at me,’’e sez, ‘yer blanky hipper-
cryte !
Wot are yer ’ere fer army way ? Wot do we pay yer for?
We vvants more solid graft,’ ’e sez, ‘ an’ kss infernal jore ! ’
“ An’ that wus ’im I called me pal—me cobber staunch
an’ true !
’E turns around on me like that an’ gives me graft ter do !
Graft, w’ich was the mean sorter thing I allays ’ad
despised.
Oh, ’ow wus I ter know ’e wus a sorter John disguised?
’E let me loaf fer munce an’ munce, an’ sets me workin’
now.
An’, blimey, Mister, I would work, but,’struth,T dunno
’ow !
“ I dunno ’ow ter do the work ; an’, spare me, if I did,
I couldn’t go ter do it, ’cos me doctor ’as ferbid.
’E sez that I’m worn out in ev’ry part excep’ me cheek ;
An’ if I start ter graft I’ll go ter pieces in a week.
An’ if I lose me job I’ll ’ave no tucker, bed or roof.
Fer w’y ? Me cobber’s done me in ! ’E’s gone an’ told
the troof.”
I tried to soothe the stricken Bloke, and still his mournful
din ;
But yet he murmured brokenly, “Me cobber’s done me
in ! ” •
And if you roam in Spring-street when the House adjourns
at nig-ht,
You’ll probably encounter this most pitiable sight.
He leans against his post and sobs, prostrated by the
news—
The Bloke whose cobber did him in, the disillusioned
Fuse.
victoria.
DEN.


The Illawarra is a tourist district of show pieces,
each distinct, each grand in its own character. It
lies along the South Coast railway between Sydney
and Nowra, hemmed in by the mountain range on one
side and the Pacific Ocean on the other, forming a
splendid setting for its magnificent series of scenic
gems—National Park, Stanwell Park, Bulli Pass,
Kiama Blowhole, the Shoalhaven Valley and the
Cambewarra Mountains.
The district’s most distinctive features are its many
coigns of vantage, commanding expansive panoramas
of mountain, meadow and ocean, and the wild prodi-
gality of its luscious vegetation. From the Bulli Pass,
Mounts Kembla, Keira, Nebo and the Saddleback at
lviama, one may peer over the tree-tops to the dim
rim of the horizon, across the meadow lands patterned
by dairy farms and settlements, and flounced with an
embroidery of foam.
Of the native trees which grow so luxuriantly in
this district, the most striking is the Illawarra Flame
Tree (Br achy chiton acerifolius, A. Cunn., Sterculia),
so called from the brilliant red color of its flowers. It
is common to the Illawarra ; but is distributed along
the extreme length of the coast. Its leaves are tri-
lobed and of a glaucous color—milky green. For a
short period, just at this season of the year, it is
deciduous, and this is the flowering period. When
in full bloom, the tree presents a magnificent sight,
the rich, warm color strongly contrasting with the
dark foliage of the forest.
The Cabbage-tree palm ( Livistona australis) —of
which there are many splendid specimens in the
neighborhood of Stanwell Park—are seen all along-
the coast. This peculiar tree shoots up a long,
branchless stem, at the top of which is a cluster of
large, broad leaves, resembling a huge cabbage—
hence its name.
Another beautiful coastal palm is the Bangalow
—A rehontophamix Cunning hamiana (Seaforthia
e.legans) —which grows plentifully in the rich, moist
lands. The leaves of this palm are broad and many
pointed, of a dark green hue, vvith a glossy surface ;
and, unlike the cabbage-tree palm, they spread out
in large, graceful clusters, the underneath ones
trailing on the ground.
The South Coast trip is a favorite with motorists.
The road is always in good order, and for the greater
part of the distance it skirts the coast, in many
places circling the cliffs overhanging the sea.
F.xcellent accommodation is available all along the
r mte. The Government Tourist Bureau at Challis
House will furnish all particulars.
...»
m
*
.He
wm
Wm mm
■ '
, r-;v
wmiMM
\
m i
Mw
Me J#'%
*§2
m
msS
A
' ' It *
A**". ~ n
X 3E H
•*" _ v>S
- r * 3*.>p
c-»
A ‘
mm
.... • , ■ ■ ..-v/.-.v*
0V
V V
JE ~^s
Fm
mb
f*U
Wr-
•:■
‘ 522
i
Vii
*
I
A
**» ■
i x
*
v--,«
r
r
•S3*
Tfc;
M,
<h-
j r . >x
I .?-.,
A.
THE BEAUTIFUL ILLAWARRA.
1. Low Tide at Bull!.
2. Cabbage Tree Palms at Stan well Park.
3. The Panorama from Otford Tunnel.


Walter Bradley & Co.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
The Latest and the Best
Remedy for chest complaints is Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery for coughs and colds. It cures
when all else fails. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
PICTURES
State wishes clearly,
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos;, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria-Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, .Barcelona, Spain.
SCIENCE SPEARS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price—3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDQWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
THE CURING IF
STOMACH TROUBLE.
«
Removing the Cause Cures the
Complaint*
Any other Treatment is Mere
Patchwork-A Great Sufferer
from Indigestion, tells how
She was Cured.
Briefly, to cure stomach trouble, try and remove
whatever causes it. Remember that the cause
removed is a complete cure, Stomach trouble is
a general name for all the forms of indigestion,
whether great pain after eating, belchings of
wind, heavy feeling in the stomach, nausea, or the
sharp pains that often feel like heart trouble.
There are two things noticeable in indigestion.
One is that doctors always find indigestion a
prominent symptom in a bloodless, run-down state.
The other, that sufferers with indigestion usually
find relief when a tonic is taken that restores the
general health. Without a doubt stomach trouble
is simply stomach weakness. The right cure is to
make the stomach strong enough to digest food
without any trouble. Any other treatment is
mere patchwork at the best. Purgatives merely
move the food on. Pre-digested foods don’t call
on the stomach to do its own work. As the pro-
cesses of digestion are controlled by the blood and
the nerves, the stomach that is too weak to
properly digest food needs a tonic to give it
strength. We have never heard of anything that
has cured so many cases of indigestion as Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. This is because they make
new blood, tone the nerves, and so strengthen all
the bodily functions. As proof is stronger than
any argument, we give below the particulars of a
severe case recently reported.
“I was always slightly subject to indigestion,
but it came on really bad some months ago,'’ said
Mrs. J. H. Jenkin," Curfew Street, Brown Hill.
“ As sure as I ate anything it lay so heavy on my
chest that it sent a sharp pain through to my
shoulder blades. I dare not draw a full breath,
I’d feel such a cutting pain. Some days I’d feel
very hungry, but often I couldn’t look at food.
My tongue each morning was coated, and my
mouth had a nasty taste. I was heavy and
drowsy every morning and perhaps all through
the day. I had wind round the heart, and it
would thump and thump until I’d think that I
was going to faint, and I’d have to lie down. I
couldn’t touch pastry or potatoes, and I used to
get quite melancholy with these attacks. I had a
feeling as if something was going to happen me.
I was sallow, but after eating I’d get hot flushes to
the face. Through hearing a young girl friend
speak of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills I thought I
would try them, and I got some from Mr. Hinde,
the chemist in Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie. I
noticed a change after taking the second box.
The third box made a still greater change in me.
1 began to eat better and to fancy my food more,
and the pains in my chest were not so severe.
The wind round my heart went away. My spirits
improved and I am glad to say my health is now
very good.”
It is a fact that people who look smart and
shrewd are never pestered by the shopkeeper to
take one of his own so-called cures. They get the
genuine without question. If one begins to talk
to you o.f something “just as good,” you may con-
clude. He thinks you easy to gull. There are many
places where genuine goods are always given
without question—trade there. Price 2s. 9d. per
box, six boxes 15s. 3d. from the Dr. Williams’
Medline Co>q| Australia Ltd., Sydney.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
*
X
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BBOTHERS SJ Gco^
Also at Melbourne. SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From London Daily Mail (25/8/’O9) :
It is in one sense a form of Socialism —not the destruc-
tive nonsense of the street-ranter, but the sane Socialism
which the Australian Labor party has made familiar to
the Empire.
Of the seven candidates originally nomi-
nated for Bent’s seat in the Vic. Assembly, four
have agreed to withdraw in favor of Snowball, the
anti-Rome candidate—which leaves that illogical
personage to fight it out with Hamilton, a can-
didate of uncertain politics, and McNamara, the
Labor representative. But witli Snowball in the
field the battle is pretty certain to degenerate into
a mere scrimmage between the yellow and green.
This was the brightest remark made by
Maoriland Premier Ward on his return from the
Defence Conference: —
While in England I Obtained a million of money and
had it sent out to Maoriland. Half of this is for the
Advances to Settlers Department and half for public
works. ... I also laid the basis for obtaining in London
AVU moneys required by locafpublic bodies in Maoriland.
The Bulletin firmly believes that if Jos. Ward
was sent on a mission to the innards of Africa he
would float a loan at Timbuctoo and borrow
money in the middle of Sahara. If he
went up naked and penniless in a balloon
he would come down with a loan in his
hand. “ Canst thou draw out leviathan with an
hook ?” says the Scripture. If leviathan had any
money in his tail pocket Ward would get him
even without the hook.
One at least of
the Ion”' procession
of witnesses before
the everlasting
Postal Commission
made a suggestion
that was worth
while that the
Postal Department
should make its
own telephones
and other instru-
ments. Hitherto
the machines have
all been imported,
but an order is to
be placed in Aus-
tralia if a firm can
be got to put in a
tender at what the
Department thinks
is a reasonable
figure. The trouble
is that the neces-
sary plant is expen-
sive, and it won’t
pay any firm to get
in the machinery
on the strength of
one comparatively
small order. A
firm may take some
risks and chance
getting a repeat
order ; but even
then, on account
of the risk, it will
want a big price
for the instruments
it will turn out, so
that it ma y
promptly get back
a fair slice of the
capital cost. But
if the Department
itself took the job
in hand, then it could
he dead-sure of having its own custom for the
next 20 or 50 or 100 years ; wherefore it wouldn’t
have to pay itself through the nose in the manner
previously described.
This dark saying is dug out of a recent
Sydney paper:—
The Premier stated yesterday that there was no need
for hysteria in regard - to the congestion in the Equity
Court. If a third Judge were necessary, added Mr.
Wade, he would be appointed.
Who would ?
The glories of Freetrade turn up in
strange places. An alarmed reformer, E. G.
Mackereth, has been making inquiries, and finds
that about 40 per cent, of the children in some of
the schools in England take alcohol. In one
school 11.8 per cent, take it daily and 34T per
cent, occasionally. “ Among the poorer classes,”
he remarks, “it is very common to give spirits to
babies by way of a soporific.” The motiier goes
to the mill, and as mill by day and baby by night
are more than mother can stand, there’s a drop
out of the gin-bottle or the glass of supper-ale
to make the youngster sleep. And he sleeps all
right.
There used to be a white-lead industry in
Victoria, but the mere shadow of Protection
which it enjoyed enabled the foreigner to hasten
it to its little grave. It started pretty well with the
help of a £1 per ton duty, and for a time flourished
because of the undoubted superiority of the article
it produced. Then the foreigner assassinated it
in the usual way. He cut down the price
of his largely-adulterated stuff, even while the
raw material was ascending ip its price, until at
last the local industry could not stand the compe-
tition, and so it gave a few kicks and died. It has
been dead quite a long time now, and, until some
Government revises the tariff and keeps a close
watch oh the quality of the imported stuff which
calls itself white lead, it will he in no great danger
of a resurrection.
SELF-ADVERTISING.
To him, as an Australian native, the greatest need of
Australia was first-rate men in every walk of life. Let
them look at the dwarfs, wrecks, and human derelicts all
round them.—SAMUEL MAUGER, M.H.R.
There is really no need to cry “ Stinking Fish”
in Manger’s case. The fact is too individually
apparent.
The chief argument used in the Victorian
House of Landlords against Murray’s Solitary
Confinement Abolition Bill was advanced by
J. M. Davies, who feared that “if all the terror
were taken out of punishment crime would in-
crease.” Exactly the same argument was used a
century ago by those who wanted to continue
capital punishment as the penalty for rabbit-
shooting, so it naturally appealed to the Land-
lords, and they rejected the Bill On the second
reading.
NOT QUITE RELEVANT.
HUBBY: "Fact is, you have no idea of the value
of money.”
WIFE: “ Oh, come. Fm sure nobody could expect
to get a larger hat for 15 guineas .”
Even in regard to such a comparatively
small matter as the old Seed W heat Fund,
N.S.W. Treasurer Twaddle couldn’t apparently
be trusted to tell the plain, unvarnished truth in
his Budget speech. “The total sum advanced to
farmers was £120,000. all of which, said Twaddle,
according to the S. M. Herald report, “ has been
repaid except £22,507.” It is a fact that £22.597
stood on the books at June 30 ; but it isn’t a fact
that ail but that amount has been repaid.
Twaddle cheerfully disregarded the fact that a
large sum—over £l3,ooo—has been written off as
hopelessly irrecoverable. And a great deal of the
£22,587 might as well be written off too, seeing
that some of it has been owing since 1889—a mere
matter of 20 years.
The mail that bumped in from London
last week brought details of still another scheme
which J. Bull has on hand “for the purpose of
bringing the people of this country into closer
and more intimate touch with the every-day life
and conditions of their kinsmen across the seas.”
The scheme calls itself “Our Empire (in Pic-
tures),” and the idea is to provide free shows of
the things that happen in “ the various colonies
and dependencies.” Who’s to stand the racket
isn’t mentioned, but the “direct patrons” include
a dozen dukes and earls, with a few bishops (in-
cluding “the Lord Bishop of Ballarat”) at the
tail-end of the procession. It’s a good enough
scheme for Australia—provided always, when the
flickergraph shows the land, it doesn’t overlook
the landlord, and that it likewise hints at the fact
that there are six Houses of Fatmen whose special
job it is to see that the big landlord isn’t disturbed
except on disastrous terms. But, somehow, the
fact that thescheme has the “direct patronage”
of a dozen dukes and earls doesn’t encourage much
hope in that direction.
The “ inquiry” into police affairs in Maori-
land is over, except that Dinnife, whose ad-
ministration was challenged, has to make up his
reply. It would all have been very amusing if
it had not been so expensive—but what does
Maoriland care about expense? It started by
somebody saying that somebody else oughtn’t to
be a policeman. One or two M’s.P. reckoned this
was a chance to become famous, “ Public opinion ”
(the same public opinion which allows the
Government to give Dreadnoughts away) was
agitated, and the put-it-off Ministry slid the
responsibility on to a magistrate named Bishop,
and made him a Commission. So the Commission
and its suite (it has never been without its suite)
has perambulated the country, and Bishop has
listened to every constable who thinks he ought to
be a sergeant, and every sergeant who is confident he
should be an inspector. The Commission has also
invited and solicited and begged for the views of
seven-bob-a-day men as to whether they ought to get
eight bob—and the answer has been unanimously
in the affirmative. Some day the long-suffering
Maoriland taxpayer may rise up and refuse to pay
for any more commissions ; but he doesn’t appear
to have a rise about him at present. A while ago
a Land Commission was appointed to go all over
the Dominion to ascertain whether the Govern-
ment ought to be a leasehold or a freehold Govern-
ment. The Commission reported that it should
be neither or both, as the case might be. And so
it has been ever since. If a leasehold community
has to be soft-soaped, Fowlds, the single-taxor, is
sent, and he says : “ Of course, we are a leasehold
Cabinet—you all know my views !” But when a
crowd of the other kidney must be cajoled, off
goes Tam Mackenzie, who asks : “ How can you
call us a leasehold Government when every
selector may have the option of becoming a free-
holder ? ”
Price Collier, a Yankee scribe, in a rather
clever hook, called “England and the English,
writes thus of the Bull-Monkey alliance . ...
It is an open question whether England's hypocritica
and short-sightedly selfish alliance with these varnished
savages has not done more to menace Saxon civil >
both in Europe and in America, than any diplomatic p
that has been taken for centuries.
Melbourne’s municipalities are again chat-
ting about a joint scheme of municipal lighting.
The great spur is the general voracity of Jrriva e
Enterprise, which lias been feeding the lot
light under some very corpulent contracts; nut
action is barred—or, anyhow, burked—by the ens-
unitedness of the councils. With a Greater Me -
bourne the thing would be as easy as being run
over by a motor-car ; but that sensible means
the desired end isn’t even proposed. it
would be the shortest road to many desired encs,
and the only reason it isn’t adopted is that it
would run over numerous unnecessary sma
beetles—some of them wearing millinery.
This casual curse drops in on a postcard
from Meiringen, Switzerland :
I am just now' on a visit to Switzerland, which m
almost every respect is a standing reproach to Australia.
Here there is no jealousy between the States, .although
Berne, the capital, is in the preponderating German-
speaking portion. The roads, railways, schools, etc., are
admirably managed, and the public and private buildings
put to shame the vulgar and unsuitable arcnitecuuie
of most Australian edifices. The country houses,
or chalets, each of which is a picture, are o
unpainted wood, which is colored by the sun to the most
gorgeous tints —a delightful contrast to the tasteless,
staring white structures universal with you. Although,
considering the mountainous districts, the proportion of
cultivable land is no greater than in Australia, the
best possible use is made of it. And, though there is no
coal or iron found here, very few goods are imported, the
locomotives, for instance, being all made at Winterthur,
and the steamboats (including machinery) at Zurich.
The extra cost, if any, is not even considered .
Which casual curse, by the way, doesn’t come from
an Australian, but from an Englishman who
recently visited Australia.
FULL UP!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was a Freetrader once, but now I’m full up.— Wilks,
M.H.R.
The earth is crammed with peoples full likewise to over-
flowing—
There’s a ship-wrecked superstition that unto its tomb is
going,
Wilks is but an indication of the way the earth is
blowing—
Cobden’s faith is dead and gone ;
Men have spurned the fallen prophet with his gospel of
disaster,
Whom the foolish folk in Britain hailed of yore as lord
and master —
Men are sick of creeds of shoddy, faiths of crumbling
lath-and-plaster ;
Yea, the world is hustling on !
From the priests about the altar there’s a dismal wail
arising;
There’s a cry that leaps to Heaven—hear the discord
agonising,
All around this land its drifting in a fashion quite
surprising
From Broome to Koo-wee-rup.
At a graveside stand the Wilkses making solemn re-
cantation,
And they show no sign of sorrow, and they make no
lamentation ;
But they cast in the deceased and make this fervent
declaration :
“ We are full up !
“We were taken in by prophets of an old decayed
persuasion
We were led by cunning merchants of distortion and
evasion,
But we’re rising here in public on this burial occasion,
’Long with brother William Wilks ;
And we wish to state emphatic that the Tory crowd
which fooled us,
With the gang of curious fakirs who in days disastrous
ruled us,
And the dodgers who along the roads that lead to
Hunger sooled us,
They were frauds and they were bilks.
We desire to tell Australia that we’re finished with Free-
tection,
And we guess we’ll start and hustle on this continental
section —
Brother Wilks, he feared the coming of disaster next
election ;
So he spurned the proffered cup ;
He’s a convert, he’s a seeker who unto the truth is
turning,
He’s a brand whom we have rescued from the cinders and
the burning—
U 1 the shibboleths of shoddy he is casting out and
spurning,
He is certainly full up !
We perceive our dismal error and are anxious to re-
trieve it;
iVe are penitent and e iger—let the blessed Land believe
it;
(let your crowbar ’neath Australia—brother, help us shift
and heave it—
Cease to argue pro and con ;
Like the dodo and the moa and the animals forgotten
Sleeps that ancient superstition—it isderelict and rotten;
Tis a fetich only worshipped by the peoples sloth-
besotten —
Hear the world go roaring on !
We are waking up, Australia ! We are waxing self-
reliant—
We will sheer off being humble folk and affable and pliant;
We will pound upon the anvil like a young excited
giant—
Building steel-works same as Krupp ;
Bid the folks who said we couldn’t cease their long des-
pairful wailing;
Bid those who said ‘the time was not yet ripe’ to end
their railing,
For their prophecies of woe are empty things and un-
availing,
And we’re all full up.”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding; day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS' SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
tHat is, on HotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be dons tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years,
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
ENGLAND’S GREATEST PIANO.
BRINSMEAD
The Piano of the Present.
THE exceptional beauty of tone, perfect touch, artistic
design and unequalled durability of this instrument
fulfils every requirement of the most critical musician.
The name of
BRINSMEAD
has been before the public throughout the world since the
reign of William IV.
EXTENDED TERMS ARRANGED.
OLD INSTRUMENTS TAKEN IN PART PAYMENT
AND FULL VALUE ALLOWED.
Sole Agents s
NICHOLSON & Co. Ltd.
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EDUCATION
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS .
Stott’s Correspondence C2“a?
Can Train You —B^ost.
Oir splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU ? Our instruction
pipers go right to vour home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it,
We have hundreds of satisfied students in nil parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONE\ .
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott's Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is this best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSIAL INSIRUCiION. Be can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam,
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams .should write to uai at *°' T P. B i t i cul,irB *
It is a mistake to delay this matter. II COSIS hOIHUStj TO IN IKK.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines mu system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. ‘ IHOKDUOHINiWb is
1 is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
172 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
Brockman's Chambers, GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
AT LAST
A Standard Typewriter at a Reasonable Price.
life
ijw
4Sfi
son
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable
Keyboard.
Unlimited Speed.
Two-Color Ribbon.
Steel Type.
Powerful Manifolder.
Light Touch.
Portable.
Built for Hard Work.
Warranted for two years.
Weight i2lh.
THE BRITON
NEW MODEL NEW OFFER.
Th;s typewriter is too well known to need lengthy description. It is the
ideal writing machine. Simple, never gets out of order, even with the
heaviest work. It will take as many carbon copies as you require, and will
cut a perfect stencil. You can pay more money for your typewriter, but
you cannot buy more real honest typewriter value.
We ship this machine, charges prepaid, to any town in Australasia, give
you ten days’ free trial, warrant it for two years. When you have tried
it, remit to us £9 10s., and it is yours. If you want to pay in instalments
we charge 10s. extra.
Write to-day, giving references, and ask us to ship a BRITON to you
for 10 days’ free trial.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
Cor. GEORGE and WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
17 Queen St., Melbourne; 364 Queen St., Brisbane; 131 King William
St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Hobart; 17 Grey St., Wellington, N.Z.


The
Favorite Liqueur
Peter
F
fleering
CHERRY
BRANDY
Dandruff ' a s Common Trouble
but none the less undesirable. It is only present where
scalp disease is well established, and there is no case of
dandruff that will not yield to my expert individual
treatment.
A patient writes : —“ My hair has benefited considerably
since using the Hygeia Treatment. There is no dandruff
present now, and the hair has not the dry feeling it had,
but is soft and glossy. It has ceased falling, and the
scalp is not irritable.”—H.P., Victoria.
Call for free consultations any day but Saturday,
between 2.15 and 4.45, or by appointment Wednesday
evening between 6 and 7. If you cannot call, write,
enclosing 3d. in stamps for descriptive booklet and
testimonials to MRS. COWLING, Dept. B, HYGEIA
INSTITUTE, Ocean House, opposite Government
Savings Bank, -Moore Street, Sydney. .
c>\
rtn(( 1
J
'p±
I’m glad when the dinner’s
over, and l can sit down and take
a rest —goodness me, but cookin’s
hard work! and how nice a
cup of fresh tea does taste, to be
—we get Robur No. 1
Grade and it’s real good, and
there isn’t many other sorts of
tea you can say that of.
The main thing about tea is to
get it fresh, and make it fresh
—1 believe ir gettin’ fresh tea
in every week —it’s easy to see
whether Robur tea is fresh or
not by lookin’ at the date on
the package- that tells you when
it was packed—none of the other
sort are dated, and they may be
as old as Methuselah for all you
know when you buy ’em.
My word ! when you’ve been
standin’ over a fire for an hour
or two, and a-feelin’ half cooked
yourself, is when you can tell
whether tea’s good or not—l’ve
tried all the other sorts, and if
you were to pack them shelves
with all of ’em, 1 wouldn’t drink
one of ’em so long as l could get
R o bu r— not if you paid me.
The Cook.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 5, 1909.
My Dear Arini.—
Last week’s interests were much under the
nomination of the Red Robe. The Cardinal and
his amazing hat have been holding tryst with the
worldlings at the various congress meetings; and
on the Thursday of last week, in honor of his
Australian silver jubilee, he attended a grand
musical festival at the Town Hall. Followed by a
group of archbishops and bishops in violet and
black raiment, the red-robed Cardinal paced
into the hall with Mrs. Tom Hughes at
his sacred elbow. Coadjutor Kelly, who
has the head of a statesman and the
mouth of an anchorite ascetic, was paired
with Mrs. Tom Dalton. All the other prelates
arrived in order of seniority, each accompanied
lady. The lady was in every case the wife of
a pillar” of the Church. But the prelates did
not look very lively companions. They certainly
had no small-talk. A hushed solemnity brooded
over them and the vast audience, and the musical
programme was on the solemn, grand side.
Solemnity and grandeur enduring for three hours
must be trying even to the wearers of red and
violet robes. After Amy Castles had “troubled
the gold gateway of the stars” with “AForse
Lui” came the interval. Yet, despite that
break in the grand festival, by the end
of the third hour the Hierarchy of Aus-
tralasia and the ladies on their respective
rights or lefts looked like cataleptics.- Mrs.
Kate Rooney boomed out that air beloved of
contraltos, “Abide with Me.” She boomed in a
blue silken gown, gave Clara Butt bows, and
received many flowers. “It is more blessed to
give than to receive,” she murmured, and gave
the Hierarchy and vast audience some more deep-
cnested melody. Little Castles soared in the
second half of the programme with an Ave Maria.
She soared in a white lustrous gown, with a rain
of pearls falling about it. The final item of the
festival was most appropriate. It was a grand
chorus, “ Thanks Be to God.”
Mr. Asprev conducted the great programme,
.and so far there isn’t any word of a nervous break-
down.
Amongst the “pillars” present were John and
Martin Meagher, father and son, of Bathurst.
JLhe paternal Meagher lately acquired the old
Agricultural College at Bathurst South, and pre-
sented it to a Convent to be used as a training
home for novices. It is a great thing to be a
“ pillar.”
lair Girls and Grey Horses have had a book of
verses written to them by an Australian poet.
At Saturday's races at Randwick the fair women,
wearing chestnut clothes, and the racehorses,
wearing chestnut coats (their own), deserved
some versifying. Hair, raiment and footwear
w< ;re all bright chestnut—perhaps the women
called it “toast ” or “champagne” or “pale-ale”
sheldo y but call it what they will I never saw one
that so many horses match.
A few women at Saturday’s A.J.C. races
brought their hairdressing up to date by dis-
carding the convoluted style of hairdress-
ing. They shed the sausage and assumed the cir-
cular plait. This plait may be as thick as you
please, and it must encircle the head and have the
hair puffed outside it. A Sydney dress-designer
was wearing her inky crown in the “new” way
a year ago when she returned from a
foreign prowl; but Sydney women like the tubular
dressing, and are in no hurry to discard the curls
that cost so much and are easily pinned on.
A damsel, wearing a white frock and a mush-
room hat, had a bunch of black plums—they were
too large for cherries—on one shoulder, and a
duplicate bunch depended from the brim of the hat.
On the whole, though, the dressing was very sane.
Is o end of white linen coats and skirts, often worn
with all-black hats. The collarless gown and the
I eter Fan collar were in plenty on women whose
necks could stand the publicity. ,
, Her Federal Excellency Dudley was one of the
thirty thousand who watched the A.J.C. races on
Saturday. A vesture of white muslin with narrow
lace and a hat of the same hue as her gown was
the lady s choice in race-attire. An extra was her
beer-colored charmeuse cloak. The Chelmsford
Excellency gave an impression of heliotrope and
pale blue and white raimenting.
Her Excellency the Dudley Countess is taking
considerable notice of the scheme to found a
Bush District Nurses’ Association. On behalf of
what will be a useful institution the Interested
Lady has approved of the Sydney Comedy Club’s
offer to stage Mr. A. H. Adams’ comedy, “The
lame Cat, ’ on behalf of the yet-to-be-born insti-
tution. Event will occur as a matinee on October
16 at the Criterion Theatre. Captain Lowther
Clark hon. secs, the preliminaries.
Mrs. “Havilah” White, of Beulah Flats, is
these days one of the most grief-stricken women
in the Commonwealth. Her youngest child, a
pretty girl of seven years, was accidentally killed
at Rose Bay Convent, where she was a resident
pupil. The child, who was found dead on the
marble floor of the hall, had evidently fallen over
the banisters of the stairway. Mrs. White’s other
daughters are married. One of them is Mrs.
Flemmich.
Ihe late Captain Charles, M. L.C., had a wafer--
side house at Point Piper—a blinding-white house
that held the eye of the ferry passenger to
Watson s Bay as the glittering optic of the
Coleridge ancient mariner held the wedding guest.
Its kitchen is on the top floor. The late owner
believed in giving the cookery odors every facility
for escape.
Father Bridge, who died last week at the early
age of 43, was a son of the late John Bridge, the
big wool merchant, and one of a trio of sons who
became priests. Four other brothers are in the
world and the wool trade—viz., Clarence, Lionel,
Leslie and Norbert Bridge. Mrs. (Dr.) McDon-
nell Kelly and Mrs. Leonard Manning are their
sisters.
Mr. and Mrs. De la Salle (she was a daughter
of Mr. “Seppy” Stephen) left for England in the
Osterley last week. Miss Eadith Walker gave them
a farewell dinner at Paris House on Wednesday.
Eighty guests turned up. The hostess, in what is
commonly termed a neat speech, proposed the
health of the wayfarers. Later, Lord Dick Nevill
did the same office for the hostess, after which all
was gaiety and repletion.
Mr. Lachlan Beaton is on his way back to
Sydney from France, where he and his family
have been since they left here. Mrs. Beaton
tarries abroad yet awhile. The Beaton children
are at school and becoming capital Frog scholars.
The W. P. Manning knight is back in Svdney,
or will be by the time this latter is hatched."
Miss Ruby Adams, who left these shores a year
ago to study with Marchesi (whom, by the wav, she
subsequently deserted for Bouhy), has been singing
before royalty at Spa. Her accomplice was Louis
Derv, tenor of the Covent Garden Theatre. The
Australian soprano's reception is described as
rapturous.’ Princess Clementine sent for and
complimented the girl. She bursts into grand
opera in about two months’ time.
Another locally-known soprano who is doing
great things is Norah Long, of M.L. She, also,
is a Bouhy pupil of 12 months’ standing. Last
month she was engaged to sing in grand opera at
the next Nice season—which is a score, since Nice
comes next in importance, in the estimation of
Europeans, after Covent Garden and Paris. The
Long songstress is said to have a perfectly mar-
vellous facility for runs and trills.
A young Sydneysider, Steff MacDonald, who
did pretty well here on the stage and is now in
London, fluffs as following on date 24/8/’O9 : “ I
am playing Laska in ‘The King of Cadonia.’
It is a fine part, and after the first per-
formance Mr. Jay (Isabel Jay’s brother) came
round and congratulated me. I hardly realised
what charm meant till I saw Marie Lohr in
‘ The School for Scandal.’ Miss Alice Hollander
and Miss Violet Mount (the last is still singing
masked) have plenty of work. I saw the hand-
some David Anderson girls looking very smart in
Hyde Park, and again doing the Palace in the
upper circle with a lot of other girls. If anyone
remembers Miss Mabel Townshend, who created a
sensation in Melbourne as the Velvet Queen, you
may tell them that she is to be married to
a wealthy Liverpool man. So she told me
when I met her in the Isle of Wight
last week. Saw the Burdekins, Mrs. and Miss,
in a box at a ‘Merry Widow’ performance
one night. Ihe elder lady was most beautifully-
gowned, and looked the younger of the two. The
much-advertised Maud Allan is a wonder of com-
monplaceness. Some of the Smart Set took her up
originally, which partially accounts for her vogue.
I he theatre was full of women—she takes on with
them, but men stay away with great unanimity
fiom her heavy-footed bouncing and skipping.
Madge Mclntosh is playing Flavia in ‘Zenda’
in the provinces, before she goes to London to
appear in a new piece called ‘ Smith.’ As for the
Australians I meet they are all doing well; and
what more can one expect—save to do better ? ”
Heavily-freighted with demonstrators of the
Word was the just-arrived liner Ophir. Vener-
able Archdeacon Bartlett and Mrs. Bartlett re-
turned from a nearly-12 months’ tour ; and Rev.
Father P. Dalton, of the Jesuit order—one of
the Daltons of Orange (a son of James of
that name), who used to be a pupil at River-
view College—came back from foreign study to
teach at that institution. A third priest-voyager
was the Rev. E. Sydes, also of the Society of
Jesus. He went on to Brisbane, where some years
ago he was at the Bar.
An Ophir-returned Sydneysider tells me she
saw the Crossley-Mueckes in their brand new
Renault 16-20-h.p. motor-car. The glorified
hen-slayer is dark-green of complexion and
upholstered in grey and fawn corduroy, with
a red morocco fixture for clock, etc. Don’t
know what the “etc.” includes. The chauffeur
can’t be one of them, for the Ophirite saw him
too—a superb thing in dark green, with black
collar and cuffs. Crossley had been singing at
Blackpool, at the Tower, whilst Caruso was lifting
his tenor at the Winter Gardens. She was also
rehearsing Beethoven’s Mass in D for the Here-
ford Festival, and was due to sing at Patti’s con-
cert at Cardiff. The Mueckes were to stop a week
of last month at Craig-y-nos, Patti’s Castle in
Wales, and what time the contralto could snatch
was employed in working up the programme for
her October recital and 1G other London concerts.
Concerning brand-new infants: The Lone
Hand’s editor, Arthur H. Adams and wife are
taking all the congratulations they can get on the
arri val of one. The stork s package was a son, who
was left at the Cremorne house on the day and date
chat Mars was nearest the earth. They call him
the Message from Mars. And if he isn’t named
Mars the omission will be a slight to the red
planet.
The motor-car is proving itself heavily frolic-
some again. Cardinal Moran’s car shied half-way
between Lewisham and St. Vincent’s Hospitals on
an important day last week. It stopped with a
loud yell, as of one seized with colic, and could
not be persuaded to go on again. The spiritual
potentate was due to open something at St.
Vincent’s Hospital. Not bottles, for he is a total
abstainer. It must have been wards. Anyhow,
he had to finish his journey in a cab, and so he
was for once the late Cardinal.
Miss Florence Hamer, the Moorish-looking
young actress with the turquoises, who played
herein “The Marriage of Kitty” and “Cousin
Kate,” mentions in a letter to a "friend that Miss
Pearl Faithfull and her sister stayed awhile with
her in London, whither they had "come by way of
Siberia. At present they are in Norway,' and the
dusky lady is to meet them in Paris by and bye.
Still more by and bye she is to rejoin her husband
in Burma.
Mr. Clarence Lee’s play, “The Marrying of
Ma,” will be produced next Saturday by the Play-
goers’ Club at a matinee at the Palace Theatre. "
All lovers of flowers are invited to attend a
meeting at the Hotel Australia next Monday, at
3.30 p.m., for the purpose of forming a Floral
Carnival Society.
An aged Peter Pan lady applied for the old-age
pension in Ireland the other day. Wlien asked
in the usual way for proofs of her age she gravely
said she was unable to tell how old she was as
she had been stolen by fairies when a child. The
Court just as gravely accepted the explanation,
and granted the usual allowance. If the poor old
tiling had tendered the same excuse to the people
who examine applicants in Victoria, she would not
only have been refused the pension, but would
probably have been prosecuted on a charge of
insulting behavior. And the Gradgrinds who do
the doling out would have told her. before she
was removed, to stick to Facts. It is a blessed
thing to get away from Facts occasionally.
Anent the übiquitous hat —that wonderful
article which woman is wont to put on her head
before she goes forth to brave the fierce elements
(i.e., her female friends). At a recent Sydney
matinee the curtain was rung up for the second
time, and the leading lady, whose sweet singing
and rather clever acting had made a hit, stepped
forward and responded to the noises of an admir-
ing audience. She spoke a few words and then
proceeded to gather up her “floral tributes.”
Reposing on the rail of the stage box she saw a
huge and magnificent basket of violets—her
favorite flower—clearly placed there for her by
the sweet-faced, dark-haired lady behind them.
She leaned forward and took the bouquet, ack-
nowledging the gift by her prettiest smile and
bow. The sweet-faced, dark-haired lady sprang
up and reached after her with a strange and
sudden cry. “ Please give me back my hat! ” she
shouted in a bereaved voice.
Professor David’s eldest daughter, Madge, was
married last week to a Tasmanian, a son of
Justice Maclntyre, of Hobart. The bride-
groom is something in the engineering and
mining line, and will take his bride to a home in
the tin neighborhood of Mt. Bischotf.
Magnus Laing Meason, of Maoriland, has his
portrait in the Imperial Review under the
artistic disguise of de la Laing. Young Laing is
a pianist, and lias been studying in Berlin and
Vienna to help keep the dead Beethoven and
Chopin memories alive. His portrait looks that
of the truly-inspired player—as if he were about
to commit hari-kari and his hair had been brushed
by a cyclone.
R.M.S. Osterley obligingly brought back a rest-
less and versatile young Australian named Beau-
mont Smith, who left here awhile ago as private
sec. to Mr. William Anderson. While he was
away he completed arrangements for bringing a
curiosity and some celebrities to Sydney. Miss
Muriel Matters, the humorous suffragist who
chained herself to something in the House
of Commons, and later took a fly in the
Spencer airship over Parliament House, will
be out here early next year under B.S.’s
pilotage. Jerome K. Jerome has also promised
to materialise in Sydney on a lecturing and recital
tour. Bernard Shaw was fished for with tempt-
ing bait, but after seeming to nibble he proved too
wary a fish to take the hook in his jaws.
There’s a new mechanical toy on the market—
the Suffragette and the Policeman. The gentle-
man in blue holds aloft his baton and chases this
modern incubus of the Liberal party, who is
clothed after the fashion of “Hop’s” political
ladies, and bears a banner with that strange
device, “ Votes for Women.”
A reward of £5 is being offered for the recover}'
of Mrs. Otto Wunderlich’s autograph book, which
was taken from the Town Clerk’s room at
the Town Hall on the day of Mr. Foster Fraser’s
reception by the Mayor of Sydney. There is a
dark suspicion that the book was stolen. Yet a
gathering of aldermen, pressmen, M’s.P., and a
few other invited guests is not exactlv the society
in which one would expect to find a' thief mean
enough to take a lady’s auto-book.
I notice that the P. and O. Co. is dropping its
whilom custom! of serving dinner to the second-
class passengers in the middle of the day. In
future the second class will take its chief provi-
sions at night, even as its brethren in the first
saloon. The difference between the two classes is
thus rendered more than ever one of the sort
which is void of distinction. As it is, many of
Sydney’s proudest nobility travel second, leaving
the more expensive part of the vessel to
folks whom they decline to know on their
(the nobility’s) native heath. ... A - whole . host
of Anglo-Indian officials and soldiers habitu-
ally patronises this class. The food is much
the same; the cabins are much the same; the
second-saloon humorist is no more horrible than
his prototype amidships; the tenor who performs
aft is no throatier, and the soprano no shriller
than similar nuisances further forward. Many
features—such as the air, the drink and the niggers
—are identically the same.
This was left on the threshold, with a brick
atop:—
X was going into town the other evening when a woman
got into the tram and sat down limply on the seat
opposite. I saw she had been in a row of some sort, for
her elaborate hat had been bashed down over her eyes till
the only part of her face visible was her chin. I waited
to see her take hold of her roof with both hands and
force it up so tiiat she could use her eyes ; hut she S' emed
to have been half stunned in whatever fight she had
emerged from, for she just sat in a helpless, blindfolded
stare and didn’t even attempt to free her head. She
made a pathetic spectacle, and reminded me of a bvgone
day of excitement in the old home, when the Senior Oat
got its head jammed in an empty beef tin, and,
after charging madly in thirteen' different direc-
tions, raced up on to the roof and sat there
meowing plaintively for 4i hours. I was just thinking
of offering her some assistance, when a couple of
sensibly-hatted shop girls climbed in and, after
one glance at the unfortunate, blinded female,
fell to whispering enviously about “the sort of
hats some people could afford.” From their em-
bittered remarks, I gathered that the woman in the
straw mask opposite had not been in a riot at all, but, on
the contrary, must have paid an immense price for her
extinguisher. She was, in fact, right under the latest
fashion. After all, I don’t think women are so like cats
after all ; our poor old purring machine nearly went mad
until someone crawled up and restored its smht with a
tin-opener. *"
Some new gastronomic thing is always coming
out of Paris. The latest is camel’s flesh. ” Who that
has seen (and smelt) camel s flesh in the live state
can picture it as “the most fashionable dish for
the very wealthy of France”? Yet, according to
a Paris correspondent, that is what camel's flesh
is to-day. One purveyor alone has in the last few
weeks cut up and sold “no less than four entiie
camels.” The camel-butchers in Africa are fatten-
ing the beasts for the Gallic market with frenzied
energy. IwentyParismillionaireshavegivenorders
for a supply of camel’s meat to be left at their back
doors weekly till further notice. This has nothing
to do with the alleged Curse of Protectionism.
No one saves money by battening upon the
creature whosehump is chronic. On the contrary,
a camel’s leg works out at over a sovereign a
pound, and shoulder of young spring camel is
almost incredibly expensive.
A smart suburban photographer has hit on a
new scheme of advertisement. He hires a tired
old hansom cab to stand outside his shop-door.
When the whip has been tied up with ribbon, and
a stray shoe or two draped round the “keb,” and
the driver provided with a huge wedding favor,
the “show” is ready for business. In a little
while the pavement is blocked with prams,
desperate-looking women fight for a front view,
girls hustle and push—and then a man conies out
and sells coupons!
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
“Send two hundred fifty October Roosevelt
in demand—Gotch.” This telegram, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne, demanding 250
extra copies to their usual large monthly order,
indicates the beginning of the boom in the
Roosevelt issue of The Lone Hand, now on sale.
“ La Petite ” writes :
Re “Sweated Angels ”(B. 23/9/’O9). Those Christchurch
(M.L.) nurses ought to “ iiooroo ” at their eight hours per
day. I migrated to a N.S. W. country hospital recently,
and had i 5 hours per day without a break. And the
duties were more a charwoman’s than a nurse’s. The
day commenced with white-washing fireplaces and scrub-
bing a ward containing 14 beds ; it mostly ended with my
telling myself that I was an ass to aspire to such a sphere.
During a period of night duty I camped in the day-
time in a barn next to the laundry, where Mrs. Sans
GSne warbled in adagio time throughout the day. It was
the enteric season, too, and two to four patients were
admitted daily. Then those 15 hours of tremendous
labor began to tell on the nurses, and one after the other
they went under. I saw three of them return to their
homes with shorn heads, and I soon wagged my tail
behind them. One of the old staff still plods on. She
deserves the V.C. Or perhaps a good husband would be
more serviceable.


c\
y^\
/
r.
J
ii
Vi
a i
cob^
m
mn
■\X'
mm;
m\
m
a-u
es-s
i\
m
s?*
sss
!
«5>
■&S '*
ft
je
s&£
V
SF
C-O-B-R-A 15he Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo i
Of Akim Foo,
With his Cobras
Driving thro’,
Wrings admiring
Shrieks from all :
“ Here he comes
From Old Bengal!”
Chunder Loo !
For Blackand Tan
Very polished
Sort of Man !
All the other
Sorts he loses 1
Cobra is THE
Stuff for Shoeses !


ALWAYS ORDER
WhisKy and
Schweppe
(See Red. Seal on Every Bottle*)
r
“DUNLOPS
/or Speed ai\d
ReliabiliFy.
Dunlop Tyre
Successes.
LOOK AT OUR SCOOP.
DUNLOP ROAD RACE—
WARRNAMBOOI to MELBOURNE.
Ist
ON DUNLOP TYRES.
2nd
ON DUNLOP TYRES.
3rd
ON DUNLOP TYRES.
In fact, nine of the first 10 ’■jders
to finish rode Dunlop Tyres.
DUNLOP
TYRES
GIVE SUCH SATISFAC-
TORY RESULTS THAT
Nearly EVERY CYCLIST
IN AUSTRALASIA USES
THEM.
Annual Sales,
360,000
None Genuine
without this
Trade Mark
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OP AUST. LTD.,'
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth
Brisbane, Christchurch. N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 4, 1909.
Mr Dear Yaurie,—
Melbourne has not had a mayoral ball like that
of last Thursday since the days when you bought
a suburban allotment in the morning for £5O and
sold it in the afternoon to a “paper’’ millionaire
for £2694. The oppressive atmosphere of alder-
manic stodge was simply swamped in the dazzling
froth of youthful gaiety.
Beyond the official and everlasting “debs.,”
there were no “sets.” Everybody had the floor
that wax and De Gilio intended for them ; and in
balcony, corridor and hall there were almost as
many people as at a football match. Even the
march of the animals, two by two, past Governor
and dais, faded into a minor incident. The
Governor’s lady, in black with a square train, had
two pretty girl visitors to back her up. Miss
Stuart Monteith has the red heid of a braw Scots
lassie. She wore a heather-purple scarf to her white
frock. The other girl—Mrs. Aide Boyle—sports
hair likeflax. TlieCommercedelegates were mostly
dowdy. The Spicer lady wore a grey cashmere
dressing gown with “angel sleeves’’ of chiffon.
Ruby Madden was the sweetest flowerthatblew—in
rose-colored crepey, clingy silk, with a lace snood
in her hair. She would talk to brother Guy. who
exposed fat, hairy legs in the kilt. Irish Guy in
t’ kilt! Aldermanic levers wore lace cuffs, buckles
and tight black silk, and brought two staid sisters
in petunia silk. Mrs. Vallange was pale and
ghostly in yellow. Mrs. Burgess floated in an
iridescence of glittering green, like a dragon fly.
Tettie Appleton hung thin white arms out of a
gorgeous black gown.
The official set got horribly mixed in its
lancing. The martial Mayor, top-heavy in furs
and chains, was forced to desert the Carmichael
lady partner and push the Congress wives into
place. A hopeless caricature of Follow-the-man-
from-Cook’s shook the very frame of the mayoral
being. The dignified Carmichael lady stepped
haughtHy, with an icy smile. The smile froze
on her face when a local political lady, in a rosy
wallpaper frock, kicked the vice-regal square train
out of her puzzled way. But all’s well that ends
well—the lancers reached a limp end without
bloodshed.
Lady Mayoress Burston, a dignified frocker,
wore wistaria ’broideries on her lavender gown.
Customs Minister Best’s dame came without her
busy spouse. Mrs. Edward Miller stalked in all the
dignity of tourmaline silk. The Wrixon lady,
who leans to far-back fashions, was in a cascade of
lace and Puritan silk. Dainty girls were too
numerous to mention—more numerous than one
expects to be gladdened by at an aldermanic, cham-
pagne-suppered ball.
For the first time in the memory of the oldest
wallflower the Town Hall did not “do its own
decorations”—a horribly vague remark that em-
braces red carpet and swathings of Empire bunt-
ing. Frank Walker, florist, managed to break
the glutinous rule, and let his fancy run to
ceilinged wistaria and languorous groves of roses,
with soft lights.
Flemington on Saturday was a “sports’” meet-
ing. Well-tailored, be-furred women watched the
running, with an eye to the races, instead of the other
cats’clothes. The Carmichaels were billed to be
present, and their box flaunted pale, cold lilies;
but the exhausted vice-regals had got lost down a
mine, or something, at Ballarat. Some feminine
Commerce delegates motored out late and braved
the lawn in full motor-swathings. They looked
like good, healthy mummies—one in mustard
color, another in a blue-bag, and a nondescript
half-dozen swathed otherwise.
Folk sported last season’s purple, getting a last
lap out of the gear. This season’s purple is faint
and drooping. Mrs. Reggie Power covered her
very short blue dress with very long foxtails.
Mrs. Currie did a zebra act in masterly velvet
stripes on a tawny hide. The Knox dame wore
purple ; so did little daughter-in-law so far as the
feathery hat went. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald pranced
round in abbreviated skirts of purple, with
spatted boots. Lawyer Purves’ lady hid under a
chimney-pot hat in a fog-tinted dress. One
slender creature posed and shivered in
nothing but a black ninon scarf to warm the
sheath nakedness of her orange-colored gown.
Croker-of-the-Figure wore his sac suit tight-
fitting. One unfortunate pioneer wore new,
pudgy draperies to her lemon-tinted gown. The
cruel wind “chyacked” her cheekily and puffed
the feathers in her hat till they twirled like toy
mills. The long, lean Yallange stalked the lawn
and paddock. The Madden womenkind lay low.
The whole town has been given over to cham-
pagne bubbles and entertainment programmes.
The Commerce delegates, coming sleepily down
to breakfast at their respective taverns, rub their
eyes and study their printed card. “ What
next?”—and with a fountain pen they score a
heavy black line through any social jaunt
that can be “cut.” They are being entertained
up to the top button of their weskit, or
even their collar-stud. The Guv’ment started
off with a draughty affair in the barns
of State Parliament House. The Federal
House handed over its beautiful grounds to
a garden party as slow as a cab-horse. The Knox
lady gave a garden party that hauled in every
butterfly in the city—a brilliant day and a perfect
gorge of frocking. Melba, flitting from some
country city, , was at that party. The Carmichaels’
nine o'clock chatty-party, at Stonington, was the
dainty pick of the entertainment bunch. The
windows of the drawing-rooms were thrown open
to the cold moonlight. The terrace was cosily
awninged-in, and bagpipers skirled shrilly alt
a satisfactory outdoor distance—just a good
accompaniment for the chatter of the folk
who stood about and talked and sniffed the balmy
breeze that came from the garden. The Talbot
lady is responsible for most of the fragrance in
that garden. Lavender and stock and Sweet
Alice —all the old-fashioned flowers that in-
sidiously throw faint fragrance. Pittosporum
hedges made a violin accompaniment to the scent,
and belated roses were like ’cellos. It was a nice
gentle party to weary entertainers and wearier
entertained. Just gentle converse; then early
motors.
The delegates, who have had the city on toast
for a fortnight or so, were at “ The Hooks of
Holland ” with a party that filled the dress circle.
It was a night-out all round. The boxes were
crammed with the gilded youth of the city in
mean-man parties. They applauded their pet girls
deafeningly, and pelted pretty Essie Perrin with
ducks—little soft, silky ones. An ex-gaud-mayor
beamed from the stalls with his lady, and audibly
and forcibly remarked : “This beats Shakspeare
hollow. There is a tune about this.” And one of
the Guv’ment House aides was unofficially and
unrestrainedly enjoying himself and his unwonted
freedom. And I—well, I just wondered how
many nights-out gentlemen-helps get.
In the midst of aldermanic dinners and other
Congress entertainment, Melbourne’s Mayoral
Colonel found time to open the Broothqrn
Brothers’ studio —a beautiful place of copper lining
and purple woodwork, perched on a house-top
in the busiest part of Collins-street. The
opening ceremony was carried on into a
musical At Home, with Di Gilio and his minions
in hiding, and with much tea and strawberry for
the womenfolk, who thronged the studio after the
Knox At Home and the Norman Lindsay picture
show.
Some enterprising Melbourne woman has
started a “Rest and Meeting Room.” Fora very
modest sum anyone in skirts may become a mem-
ber, and when you’re a member you can also use a
circulating library. So the days when we roamed
round the Gallery or roosted on the seats in the
arcade until Gussie was cut loose from his job are
over. The occasional visitor may also use the
room—leave parcels there, powder her nose, use
the telephone—all for the modest sum that she
hurls into the plate with a frightful clatter on
Sunday mornings.
One of the first pictures sold (for 15 guineas) at
the Norman Lindsay exhibition in Melbourne was
“I Blow My Pipes,” a work richly characteristic
of the artist, in which the grouping and much of
the figure-drawing are almost as masterly as his
management of light in the perspective. No. 1,
“An Idyll of the Dairy,” went at the same time
to the same purchaser. Another drawing snapped
up on theopeningday wastheluridlydramatic “A
Visit from Doctor Death,” illustrating a one-act
play written by Arthur AdamsforTiiKLoNKHAND.
The demand for the humorous bear sketches was
as keen as it had been in Sydney, and the startling
suggestiveness of “Haunted” gave the picture a
foremost place in public approval and disapproval
from the start. If Norman Lindsay’s show wanted
any advertising, “ Haunted ” would be supplying
the want.
The show—it is at Furlong’s Studio—has been
the most crowded of its kind. Every day is like
an opening day, and only the very early worm can
get an uninterrupted view. When Governor Car-
michael made his fewremarks at theopeninghesaid
he had imagined that Lindsay must look just like
“ one'of those artist chaps of the 15th century,”
and he could scarcely believe that the draughtsman
had never been abroad and wandered in the
Florentine galleries. But finding that Norman
Lindsay had never left Australia, he concluded
that the spirit of “one of those chaps” had entered
into the body of this Australian, and he wished
he could have the joy of the emotions Lindsay will
feel when he does get loose in those galleries.
His Ex., who has been taking keen interest in the
artist and his work all the time Lindsay has been
in Melbourne, begged a view of the Casanova
drawings, and pored over them for several days.
Several of the exhibited pictures have gone into
the Stonington collection ; and nearly everything
in sight is red-spotted, until Furlong’s Studio
looks as though it had scarlet fever.
The V.A.S. sent out invitations to meet
Norman Lindsay, Miss Ruby Lindsay and Will
Dyson, and cheer them up before they leave for a
look-in at older countries. Norman Lindsay and
Will Dyson turned up all right, but Miss Lindsay
was busy packing, and Mrs. Will Dyson came in
her place. Mrs. Will had all the men stand-
ing round in adoration—a radiantly beautiful
being in a Frenchy frock of faded pinks and
blues, her hair snooded in a pink ribbon. Mr.
Bill wore black and white, with his hair parted in
the middle; and his socks were beautiful. Norman
Lindsay was more like an imprisoned molecule of
electricity than anything else. People speeched
at the departing: artists, as people will; but they
got no more than two words in response. In
one room visitors then danced the two-step, and
in the other music and lager-on-draught held
equal honors.
The Will Dysons were married at Creswicklast
Wednesday, and they depart for a honeymoon in
Europe by the maiiboat on Tuesday. Norman
Lindsay goes to Europe with them ; and then the
newly-weds leave London for ’Murka.
The Consular Pinschofs are posting the white-
and-silver missives that “request the pleasure”
for their daughter Carmen’s marriage with Mr.
Arthur A. Harris, the versatile young gentleman
who shines equally at private theatricals and
Burgovne-wine business. When in Sassiety,
play-acting, the wine man takes the modest name
of do Beere. The wedding will occur on Novem-
ber 11 at St. Paul’s.
The raging main has placed another romance to
its credit. Miss Amy Crotty, sister of the Rev.
Cassian Crotty and Mr. Horace Crotty, became
engaged on the trip to England, aboard the Mor-
avian, last March. Her accomplice was one Mr.
W. H. Davies, an Englishman, who had booked
to Durban, on the hither side of which township
he purposed shooting big game. They were
married on the 17th of August in London. Mr.
Davies is bringing his bride back to Australia in
October in order that he may meet her people.
The Liverpool (England) Post has unearthed
a claimant to the Clarke millions, most of
which are at present in the grip of the cheerful
Rupert of that ilk. The claimant is named
Clarke, and he is a butcher. He butches in
Bristol. The original William Clarke, he points
out, was a butcher of Whitechapel (London).
That original person emigrated to Melbourne a
while before the Vic. gold rushes, and bought city
property there. At the time he was known vari-
ously as “Bill,” “Billy” or “Big” Clarke.
After he made his second million he began to be
addressed as William. At the fifth million
or so arrived Sir William. The butcher
claimant of Bristol doesn’t suggest that he has
any present lien on the property now held by
Rupert, but says the Law will hand it over to him
on the latter’s death—since “his grandmother
and the present bart.’s grandfather were brother
and sister.” The Bristol cattle-assassin seems
slightly mixed. At least one obstacle to his
ultimate attainment of the Clarke cash exists in
the shape of Ernest Clarke, late of the R.N. and
brother of Rupert, a healthy young man who
looks good for any number of years yet. The
mere fact of being a butcher is not everything in
a case like this.
The fortunes, by the way, that are liable to
arise from the humblest beginnings! In the
same sheet in which I read about Bill Clarke,
deceased, and his sensational rise to affluence. I
lighted on a history of the Westminster dukedom.
It is quite modern and had its origin in
a suburban milk-run, whose frugal possessor sub-
sequently did a side-line in money-lending. Now,
in addition to £36,000 per annum from country
rents, the descendant of that trader is worth
£300,000 a year in city rents, and with his leases
falling in daily, he should pocket in about 20
years’ time £1,000,000 per annum at the least.
All out of milk—probably watered.
From S’Afriea, where she had the critics raving
over her in the choicest musical terms, Dolores
is back in London. Charlie Tait, who dined
with her at the Midland Grand Hotel some
months ago, says that the lady was looking as
young and charming as ever. She then talked of
singing in Berlin, Copenhagen, Moscow and
Petersburg after her return from Boerland.
From “Bosna,” of Adelaide:—
Our Admiral Excellency, the lady, and the twin daugh-
ters, with several aides, have been wandering around
Wallaroo and getting on speaking terms with Moonta.
Moorita had a Show for their benefit, and proved that it
could make butter, sofa cushions, reaping machines, and
Cornish pasties, as well as copper. Then the damsels and
their graceful mamma came home again, and left his Ex.
to go a-sailing up and down the Gulf on the Rupara. He
is still sailing, and on his travels will look in at Darke’s
Peak, and see how they are doing at Cootra, and ask after
the crops at Weedina.’and say he is pleased to meet them
at Kappakoola, and beg them to cheer up at Peechuna.
According to present arrangements, the Rupara will
bring him home to us on October 10.
There are to be garden parties all over the place this
month. On October 12 the Chamber of Commerce will
ask the salt of the earth to spill itself over Victoria Park ;
and the same beauty-spot will be trampled on by several
thousand citizens, at the Mayor’s invitation, on the 23rd.
Less than a week later—on the 28th, to be exact—there
will be a garden revel at the Residence, the first since
their present Excellencies have been on these shores.
An Adelaide boy, Felix Barton, has had a romantic
piece of good luck. He is a grand-nephew of the late
John Stuart Mill. Last year an English cousin and literary
woman, Miss Mary Taylor, passed through Adelaide,
sought out her relatives at Glenelg, and spent a day with
them. She has inherited the celebrity’s wealth and per-
sonal property, and is at present writing his life and
editing his letters. The Adelaide boy, for whom she took
a liking, has also a literary turn, and after capturing
laurels at St. Peter’s and the 'Varsity had started out on
the inky way through Tun Lone Hand and lesser
channels. Miss Taylor went back to England, kept up a
correspondence with her young cousin, and now has
cabled him that she has a good literary opening for him,
and would he please sail at once. So he sailed by the
Mooltan ; and Adelaide has one brainy and well-read
youth the less.
A crowd of ornithologists have been roaming the
country, and have now gone camping at Port Lincoln,
where I know there are oysters, though I never heard of
them flying. The scientists arrived in sections last week,
and on Thursday the Chief Justice Ways, who are always
kind and encouraging to congresses, had them out at
Montefiore. The Ways’ garden is full of ornithology, but
they couldn’t go out and study it much because of a flood
of spiteful rain. There were evening lectures, and lan-
tern views of every bird that ever was, and a visit to the
Mellors’ place at Fulham, where there is about an acre of
bamboo thicket specially grown as a bird-harbor, recrea-
tion ground and music hall. The visiting ’ologists later
on presented Chief Justice Way with an Ellis Rowan
painting of a wattle-bird on a wattle-bough, “ as a slight
token,” etc.
Glenelg last week finished up its batch of musical lec-
tures provided by the Mayor, and there was such a house
that the little Town Hall could have been filled twice
over. Besides the crowd that went home unlectured,
another crowd crammed itself on to the balcony, and
heard what words of wisdom it could through the open
doors. Olive Bassnett, Muriel Cheek, Ethel Ridings,
Walter Wood, Alexander Cooper, and half a dozen lesser-
voiced folk provided Gilbert and Sullivan melody, and
afterwards the Mayor and Mrs. Varley entertained Mr.
Bevan, the musical lecturer, and his singing angels at a
gay little supper, whereat the Mayor was assured he was
absolutely the best of his species for improving their
minds instead of asking a hundred of them to dance on
each others’ toes
At fiddler Willie Cade’s farewell concert in the Town
Hall there was an excellent house, and one that encored
most things in a glad-I-came manner. The hero himself
has “ temperament,” and Germany ought to be glad to
have him. Among his dainty and dreamful encores was
a pretty little tunelet by Collector of Customs T. N.
Stephens. Mr. Cade will pack hij fiddle and his knapsack
in December next.
Meanwhile another musical sun has arisen and an-
nounced his intention of illuminating foreign spheres.
This is singer Arthur Otto, and Adelaide will tell him how
sad it is to say farewell in the Town Hall on October 16.
We now have our little pet “Song of Australia” on
postcards—words, music and all. Each verse has a
card to itself, with appropriate illustrations of the “deep,
unfathomed mine,” and other Australian possessions as
set forth in the very comprehensive ditty. Which re-
minds me that this very day of writing (Oct. Ist) 50 years
ago there appeared the advertisement of which our “ Song
of Australia ” was the outcome. It offered the world a
prize of £lO for the best words and the best music sub-
mitted.
A postcard to the Lyric Club comes from Antonia
Dolores, and announces the good tidings that that
nightingale will be back in Australia next April.
The one remaining Gebhardt girl, of the well-known
squatting family, has promised to say “I will” at an
early date to George C. Dempster, who deals in bulls and
bears and other share-market animals at Broken Hill. He
has a seat on the Adelaide Stock Exchange, too, though
so far he hasn’t often warmed it.
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.
Old Member alleges :
Since Responsible Government, began in N.S.W. there
have been but six Chairmen of Committees of the Coun-
cil, while there have been 18 Chairmen in the Assembly.
The Council men were : George Allen, Joseph Docker,
George Innes, William Richmond Piddington, Archibald
Hamilton Jacob and (present) William Joseph Trickett.
The Assembly was kept in order by Terence Aubrey
Murray, A. T. Holroyd, W. M. Arnold, W. R. Pidding-
ton, Robert Wisdom, Thomas Garrett, John Lackey,
Richard Driver, J. S. Parnell, Angus Cameron, W. J.
Trickett, T. M. Slattery, Ninian Melville, William
McCourt, J. H. Cann, W. P. Crick, W. H. Wood and
J. J. Cohen. George Allen (father of Speaker George
Wigram Allen), first Council Chairman, had a phenomenal
run of 16£ years. Jacob was an institution for 12£ years,
and Mr. Trickett has been going strong since June 13,
1900. Angus Cameron holds the belt for the Assembly
with two runs totalling about eight years. Crick chaired
despotically for one session and then threw up the job.
Cohen is the somewhat cantankerous gentleman with the
job in the present Parliament. The Labor party is
anxious to relieve him of the responsibility.
Here are two bones flung to the Stinking
Fish crowd, which yelps about poor pay and in-
expert service on Australian State-owned tele-
phones. The first is an advt. from the Western
Daily Press, England
Respectable Family of two or three persons (as the
accommodation is limited) wanted to act as caretakers
and operators, at Chew Magna Exchange ; previous experi-
ence unnecessary.—Apply, District Manager, National
Telephone Co., Ltd., Bristol.
The second is the reply of Private Enterprise to
an applicant:—
Dear Sir, —With reference to your application of 11th
inst., I have to inform you that the terms and conditions
of the appointment are: House Rent, Rates, etc., free ;
ss. per week allowance towards gas and coal.
In return for this the company will require continuous
attention, i.e., days, nights, Sundays and holidays, at its
Chew Magna Exchange.
I shall be glad to know if you still wish to be considered
as an applicant, so that your name may be submitted to
the Company for approval.—Yours faithfully,
A. Perkins, District Manager.
It may be that England is losing its old
respect for the Established Church. Anyhow it
is reported with some feelings of bitterness that a
Westmoreland vicar, the Rev. John Lax, was
lately tied to a tree by some of his flock, scoffed
at, and covered with a degrading and sticky sub-
stance called tar. The reverend shepherd was
walking with the schoolmistress at the time, and
he seems to have been suspected of an undue
tendency to hug the lady.
“ Oby ” writes on his own responsibility :
The late Captain Ricketts, of the Manning River
(N.S. \V.), did much to abate the general terror people
have of sharks. The Australian sea-coast shark is a bully
only where he meets a person who is obviously frightened
of him. He will chase the runaway ; but if attacked in
front will sneak off to a safe distance and dodge round
for an unguarded opening. Men on the coast —even the
tame fishermen of Bondi and Coogee—have found him
out and declare his ferocity a false pretence. He puts it
on to scare new-ohums with. Ricketts often had business
at the sea bottom, and never troubled even to arm him-
self against sharks—the hooligans of the sea, as he termed
them
This is what Victoria’s John Weary aimed
at the visiting representatives of the Empire’s
commerce in Melbourne one day lately :
But if they were pleased and astonished by what they
had already seen in Victoria, what would their astonish-
ment be when they came to that part of Victoria which
had deservedly been given the name “ Australia Felix” —
he meant, of course, the Western District, to which he
had the honor to belong?
What would their astonishment be, indeed ? For
possibly they never saw before in a fertile land
such a maximum of emptiness and such a minimum
of human habitation.


4m
ssi
Ri
r.wi
After all, you know,
there must be some-
thing exceptionally
good about a whisky
that has found favor,
day in, day out, for
nearly seventy years.
. . \


DOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and Spray-
Heart CHARM,
7/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold CROSS, set Fine Pearls,
25'-
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
21 /-
15ct. Gold, 40/; Silver, 4/6.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting, Keyless
WATCHES, Fully Jewelled, Perfectly
Adjusted,
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/. 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £B/10/. Guaranteed 1,2, 3,
and 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Bee BROOCH, set Fine
Pearls and Opal Body,
£4-
All Pearls, £5.
OUR
“UNRI-
VALLED”
20/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/-
I?
%
A
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel, Open-face, keyless WATCHES,
g-Plate, Shortwind, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Dust and Water Proof Cases,
liO/-
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/,
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
Shall we mail you a copy ? It contains over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and Optical
Goods, and is yours for the asking. Write for it now, even if you are not buying for some time to come. With it you
CAN BUY IN PERFECT SAFETY through our UP-TO-DATE MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire,
£4/10/ .
All Diamonds, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set F
White Pearls,
£4.
OPEN
FACE,
10/-
higher
GRADE,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open-face, Keyless
" ATCHES, Short-wind, stem set, per-
fectly regulated,
u 10/-
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, with Safety Chain,
£3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, 2-Bar “Dinna Forget” BROOCH,
Garnet centre,
10/6
Other styles, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, set O’lal,
Ruby, or Sapphire,
17/0
15ct. Gold, 30/; 18ct.
Gold, £2.
9ct. Gold, Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, with Safety Chain attached,
£2-
Larger, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/. Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/, 60/, 70/, 80/
9et. Gold Signet RING,
.20/. 15ct. Gold, £2;
ISct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pearls and Tourmaline
or Peridot.
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold “Lily of the Valley” Spray BROOCH, set
Fine White Pearls,
£4.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set
Fine Golden Sap-
phire, £3, £4, £5
according to size
of stone.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine Dia-
monds and Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l5-
Diamonds and Emeralds
£l7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold NECKLET and PEN-
DANT, set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst, £4-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/lu/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold BROOCH, set Five Pure Golden Sapphires,
£ 5-
Diamonds and Rubles or Sapphires, £l2/10/.
All Diamonds, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2/10/-'
A. SAuivDERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds,
and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£l5-
All Diamonds, £27/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine,
Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set
Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2-
Green or Golden Sapphires, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BAMBOO BRACELET,, Half-chased, with
Safety Chain attached,
£2/15/.
Smaller, £2/5/ Larger, £3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set with
Tourmalines,
£3
For Pierced or Unpiereed Ears.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/,
25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS,
loct. Gold Scroll BROOCH,
set Pearls and Tourmalines,
or Peridots,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
lSqt. Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£3/10/-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
Ali Diamonds,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUJSiDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
Fine Pearls and Amethyst,
£3-
A. SAUNDERS.
Jsct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine White Pearls and Tour-
malines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SauinDERS.
18ct. Gold, Clus-
ter RING, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire.
£lO-
- Centre,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double Curb ALBERT,, made in our own workshops, £3. Heavier,
£6/10/, £7/10/. 15ct. Gold, £5/10/, £6/10/, . £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/.
12/6, 15/, 20/. In 14kt Patent Gold-filled, Guaranteed, 20s, 25/, 30/. Any Special
£3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/,
In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/6,
Design of Albert to order.
Our System of Free Car-
riage on Goods to any
part of the Country means
a big saving to you.
With the exceptions of
Clocks and Chinaware, we
send all Goods Carriage
Free to any part of Aus-
tralasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
CHARM
Amethyst
Thistle,
12/6
-M4S3
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold PENDANT, set Fine
Pearls and Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2:10/-
A. SAUNDEKS.
9ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
115/«
15ct. Gold, 25/; Silver, 3/6.
SOLID
GOLD,
£l2/10/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct. Gold, Hunting, Keyless
Waltham LEVER, -4-plate, fully jewel-
led, compensation balance, perfectly
adjusted, extra heavy case, hand-
engraved,
£l2/10/-
Iligher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O. r
Kept in Free Repair for 6 Years.
A. SAI.-,^ERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls, Ruby,
and Turquoise, or all 1 earls,
, . £.3/10/-
Olivmes, Rubieo ind Pearls, £4/10/.
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/.
A. SAUAUKKS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver, Hunting’, Keyless
LEVER, -J-plate movement, fully jewelled,
£2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£5, £6. Solid Gold, £7/10/, J £B/10/,
£lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £l7/10, £2O, to
£75. Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, G, and 7 Lears.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
THROUGHOUT Australasia Dr. M orse’s Indian Root Pills are a household remedy,
and the antidote for all general ailments. In thousands of homes the little amber
bottle is the sole medicine chest, for, whatever the complaint, the bowels must be kept
free, and the process by which the Blood is purified must be stimulated to throw off the
poisons in the Blood, which is the cause of all disease.
The many wonderful cures effected by Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have awakened the
interests of all classes of the community to the merits of these Pills. Years ago pills were the
MEA* tY
LOOO.DOO
BOTTLES
SOLD ANNUALLY
m
AUSTRALASIA
medicine of the poor only. To-day the efficacy of
Dr. M orse’s Indian Root Pills to overcome the
common ailments of mankind has convinced not
only the working section of the population, but the
more wealthy, professional and independent classes
that Dr. M orse’s Indian Root Pills are the best
family medicine.
Dr. M orse’s Indian Root Pills have come to
stay. They are an efficient, reliable and safe
remedy, placed on the market at a price within the
reach of all. They are sugar-coated, pleasant to
take, and retain their full medicinal properties. They
are packed in amber-colored bottles—not in cheap
wooden or pasteboard boxes —and are thus always fresh and clean, impervious to moisture,
unaffected by climatic conditions, and do not deteriorate by keeping, as all liquid medicines do.
THE PRUDENT HOUSEWIFE always keeps a bottle in the house, for she has
learnt by experience that Nature occasionally requires some assistance, and that this assistance
is best afforded by prompt recourse to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Many a serious
illness may be prevented by the timely use of these Pills, checking the disease in its primary
stage. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, being purely vegetable, do not weaken, sicken, nor
gripe, and may be taken with perfect safety by the most delicate woman or the youngest child.
The old and feeble will also find them a most suitable remedy for aiding and strengthening
their weakened constitution.
TESTIMONY FROM ALL PARTS.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mrs. Martha Simmons, 8 Cove Street, Balmain, says :
“ In my teens I suffered very badly from Bilious Attacks. My
blood was very poor, my whole system became completely run
down, and on many occasions I was so weak that I had to be
supported home by my schoolmates. As I grew older I did
not seem to overcome my weakness, and I was in this state of
health for a long time. Periodical headaches, bilious attacks,
and constipation were my constant ailments. I gave many
medicines a fair trial, but I did not receive any permanent re-
lief. The salvation of my life was Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills; it was wonderful how they relieved me of bilious
attacks. They put life into my body, regulated my system,
and I gradually grew stronger, until I became a perfectly
healthy woman. I still use Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
occasionally, and heartily recommend them to everybody.”
QUEENSLAND.
“Por over 10 years your pills have been our sole family
medicine,” writes Mrs. Margaret Andrewartha, Quay and
South Streets, Rockhampton. “We have proved them over
and over again a perfect remedy for Liver Complaints,
Biliousness and Indigestion. They are indeed an efficacious
medicine for all family complaints and womanly ailments, and
should be in every household. I always recommend them, and
have much pleasure in sending you this testimonial, which you
may use in any way you please.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mrs. Eliza Hood, 115 Sturt Street, Adelaide, - writes: —
“ I was a veritable martyr-to Rheumatism and Sciatica, and
was under the doctor’s care for a very Ion" time with little
relief. My agony was intense ; pains in the back, and I was
confined to my room for a week at a stretch. When I did
manage to leave my room I was doubled up, and it was some
days usually before I could walk in the ordinary way. I tried
many remedies, and almost despaired, when a relation per-
sauded me to take Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which I did,
and found relief almost at once. After a little perseverance
I obtained good health, and your great medicine has made me
a new woman in place of being as in the past an invalid. My
family all use your great remedy, and I now recommend them
to every woman.”
TASMANIA.
Mr. Fred J. Tole, Saddle and Harness Maker, 81a Inver-
may Road, Launceston, says : —“ About 12 months ago I suf-
fered from Indigestion, Headaches, pains in the chest, and
also great difficulty in breathing, especially after meals. I
tried many remedies, but found nothing so good as Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pdls. I took three at each dose, and they have
dispelled all symptoms of the ailment. I feel brighter and
healthier in every way. I always keep Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills by me, and recommend them to everybody troubled
in the same way.”
VICTORIA.
“I am very pleased,” writes Mrs. F. Woods, 417 Chapel
Street, South Yarra, Melbourne, “to he able to testify to the
splendid qualities of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a family
medicine, and can safely say that they have no equal for family
use, as they are suitable for persons of all ages. My husband,
children and self all use Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and no
other medicine is required, as a dose now and again keeps us
all in splendid health. For all common ailments Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are a valuable corrective. No household
should be without a bottle.”
THE DOMINION OF NEW ZEALAND.
Mr. M. Murphy, storekeeper, Grosvenor Street, Kensing-
ton, Dunedin, writes:—“lean recommend Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, having used them myself and in my family for over
12 months. lam convinced that they regulate the system,
and correct the liver, kidneys and bowels when out of order.
They are gentle in their action, and give permanent results.
For invalids they are an invaluable medicine.”
WESTRALIA.
“ I have from time to time taken Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for complaints common to women, and found them satis-
factory,” writes Mrs. Margaret Maraspen, 334 Lord Street,
East Perth. “I can conscientiously recommend them as a
household remedy and as a boon to women. You have my
consent to use this testimony if you desire.”
0?
w sv»ccviNeo Water
2aA* brforerxiirini
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
The Little Amber
Bottle.
Dr-Morse's
1
For THE
Pills
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a perfect blood
purifier and an infallible
remedy for Biliousness,
Indigestion, Constipation,
Headaches, Sallow Com-
plexion, Liver and Kid-
ney T roubles, Piles,
Pimples, Boils and
Blotches, and for Femaie
Ailments.
Sold by all chemists
and storekeepers, price
Is. V/ 2 d. per bottle, or
direct from the W. H.
Comstock Co. Ltd., 58
Pitt Street, Sydney. 6
bottles 6s. 6d. post paid.
THEY DO NOT WEAKEN.
THEY DO NOT SICKEN.
THEY DO NOT GRIP!


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and fo-Children it is invalu-
able.. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sifces '3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold'by Stores
Chemists, & A, Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
m
CA
r\
z
CA
CA
PI
r~
m
A
CA
ass^a^
o
r\
»■
m
$o
S
G\
5 H
RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
His Excellency the Governor-General,
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
On Saturday and Monday Rand wick held
roughly 62,000 people—mostly fools who shelled out an
enormous sway of hard cash, on which the bookmakers
can have a high old time till the Summer meeting shall
re-fill their differs. The bookmaker always scores; but
this Spring meeting lie has scored in an extra loud key,
and gathered in money beyond his dreams. Yet
there are fools who believe the bookmakers’ tale
that the present system in N.S. VV. gives the backer better
prices than he can obtain from the totalisitor. The
point is that at present the bookmakers have got all the
mone.v, whereas with the totalisator the public would
have lost only the IIJ per cent, of the total amount de-
ducted by the people running the machine—the State
and the Club.
The Epsom was the biggest possible gold mine
for Patrick Noses. There were 26 starters, and the coin
was heaped on Plavinius at seven to two ; Parsee at five
to one ; Maltine at six to one ; Golden Slipper at eight to
One ; and Blue Book at 12 to one ; in a slightly lesser degree
also on Achillean and Aborigine at 11 to one, and Kerlie
and Kyeadgerie at 16 to one. War Bee, Silver Hamp-
ton, Parsee and Bright Steel were left at the post,
and then went off to chase the others home. Parsee had
been a source of anxiet.v to punters ever since he won so
prominently at a recent Tatt.’s meeting. Rumor had it
up to the 11th hour that he would notstartin the Epsom,
and practically he didn’t. All the best-fancied nags were
shocking disappointments, excepting always Maltine, who
finished third, and would have done better with a clearer
run. Unsuspected Hyman, against whom the books
cheerfully laid 33 to one, got the decision “by a
neck” from Kyeadgerie, whom hundreds acclaimed as
winner. So sure was the latter’s jockey that lie
refused the offer of Hyman's rider to “save a
tenner.” Hyman was bought for 55gs. at the ltand-
wick sales ns a yearling, and last year was ridden
to victory in A.j.O. Doncaster by the same jockey,
11. Oallinan. He was sold on Saturday for 2000 guineas
to an Indian buyer, delivery to be taken imme-
diately after the meeting. But in the Rous Handicap he
so cut his leg that the, turbanned sport’s representative
declined to complete the purchase. Hyman was well
backed when the betting on the Epsom started (in spite
of the Gaming Act), but shaped so poorly in a w.f.a. race
at Rosehill recently that he was practically forgotten.
**■ * *
The second of the two big handicaps of the
meeting, The Metrop )litan, resulted just as disastrouslv
for the backer as the Epsom had done. The first and
third horses came from the crowd the bookmakers laid 25
to one against, and when a bookmaker lays 25 to
one against, it is a sure indication that few
are backing the animal. The second started at 10 to
one against. The popular fancies were Lord Nolan,; at
five to one against; Kyeadgerie, seven to one against ;
and Flaval and Togo, at 10 to one against. Hayfield
and Gidyea showed the way tiil the bend, where they
gave way to Golden Slipper, who was soon joined by
Olivaster. Then Maltine flashed into a run that had onlV
to be sustained to give the bookmakers a second harvest-
Lord Nolan and Kyeadgerie were wedged in among the
mob, and Maltine sustained bis run and beat Olivaster by
half a length, with Golden Slipper a head further away.
* * • *
The anticipated scratching of Clamor on the
course for A.J.O. Derby left 11 in the race, exactly the
same number as in Parsee’s Derby last year. Malt King,
Hayfield and Provocation were the most alluring as far
as appearances went. The meanest-looking were even-
money favorite Prince Foote and Brookong. But the
Prince, though small and far from strongly built, bad
proved his quality a few weeks back by downing Malt
King, who had in turn spreadeagled a fine field at Rose-
liill. So. although his track work was inferior to that
of Malt King and Provocation, the punting brotherhood
stuck so determinedly to the common-looking little
fellow that his price slithered down to five to four on.
Malt King and Provocation were at six and seven to one
against. Provocation shot out to make the pace, and then
gave way to Grist. After that Patronatus, followed by
Danilo, arrived on the scene, and the field swept round
with Prince Foot" nicely bottled up in the ruck. But at
the distance McCartney had brought him, or he l ad
brought Mac, level with Patronatus and Danilo, and
their names were Slush and Mud respectively. Malt King
spun alongside, but burst his boiler or something, and
Prince F. sailed home 14 lengths to the good from
Patronatus. with Dmilo about a length behind' the
second. The time (2inin. 37£sec.)is just ordinary, and
ssec. slower than Noctuiform’s record of four years ago.
Prince Foote was hred by his owner, “ J. Baron,”
of Newcastle (N.S.W.), by imported Sir Foote from
Petrushka, by Isinglass from Pet of the Chase, by Peter
from Diana, by Galopin. He won the Sires Produce Stakes
in the record time of lmin. 2>Jsee., and was favorite for
the Derby from the moment he"gathered the Chelmsford
Stakes, at Sydney Tatt.’s meeting, last month. But his
backers had to buy their money. The Prince is in Caul-
field Cup with 7st. 91b., and in V.R.C. Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup at the same weight.
4 *• it
At time of writing, the Caulfield Guineas on
Saturday is regarded as a “ moral ” for Prince Foote, if
the Sydney Derby winner comes to hand for the event.
In the absence of the little champion, even Malt King
may be good enough to beat the best of the Victorian
3-year-olds, of whom Captain White looks more dangerous
than the disappointing Mala. And in the Toorak Handi-
cap, too, the winner will be looked for among recent
rivals from Sydney.
Tragedian Oscir Asclie opened in Sydney more
than promisingly. He specked £3O on Hyman for the
Epsom, and possibly won £lOOO, as hundreds to three
were plentiful right up to the start, though the dailies
gave the price- as 25 to 1.
At Flemington last Saturday a pretty good
field of horse-* contested the October Stakes, a w.f.a. race
over 10 furlongs, which has sometimes had an instructive
result. lolaire won ir- handsomely enough from Knox
and Post Town ; and if the big fellow (who ran in
blinkers) could be fairly expected to stay 12 furlongs in
flying company, he would, on this form, have many
backers for the Caulfield Cup, with 9st. lib. on bis back.
Mala, the favorite, was the only backed one that ran
badly, and until he has either confirmed or contra-
dicted th s performance in the Caulfield Guineas
next Saturday, the three-year-old will be under sus-
picion. M *la is a handsome colt, but he appears
to suffer from nerves, and although he looked fit
he made no struggle after losing the lead. Alawa,
on the other hand, was palpably short of work, yet
be finished fourth and was running on. The risk in
backing this really good horse for the Melbourne Cup is
the same that should deter punters from putting their
proverbial socks on Pink Un. Alawa has a fore-leg which
seems unlikely to stand the strain of a thorough prepara-
tion. Trainer Soobie is said to have great hopes of being
able to wind the sou of Malster right up, but the chances
are against the horse getting to the post in hard
condition.
•* •* * *
S iturday’s great Warrnambool Road Race had
many points. It attracted the world’s record number of
312 starters for a road race; the winner covered the
ground in faster time than any previous winner; the
finish of the 165-mile rac - was fought out.to the very last
yard ; it was -oinematographed. and the films are to he
shown throughout tlie world. The holder of the fastest
time record, T. Larcombe, started on scratch beside a
wonderful youngster of 18, B. M. Duffy (Tas.); but both
were hopelessly distanced by J. I. Munro, a slim stripling
of 21 years from Coburg (Vic.), who, with a three-minute
handicap, shifted himself from Warrnambool to Mel-
bourne in the remarkable time of 7hr. 12min. 51sec. —
mile after mile of the 165 at the even rate of 2min.
372-ssec.,or nearly 23 miles an hour for seven consecu-
tive hours. This beat the previous record by 17min.
19sec. and J. Arnst’s 1903 feat by 30 minutes. Munro had
rhe wind behind him, but rain had fallen right through
the night up to 5 a.m., so* the drawbacks would
about balance the advantages. The finish between
the two leaders was great. Sprinting as though
finishing a mile race, each drove his machine as if for his
life. W. E. Knaggs, of Brighton (Vic.), held an extra
kick or two, and passed through the tape his hare length
ahead of L. Day, of K.vabram, who had 35 minutes start.
Knaggs (41 minutes) is a veteran of 33, with a S’Afrioan
reputation. A. G. Lloyd, of Elsternwiok, rode in third,
less than a riiinute behind Knaggs, the first 10 men being
all home within seven minutes. Munro.does better on
the road than the path ; he started in the last two Aus-
trals, and both times failed to reach the final.
The race was watched from end to end by Sir
Albert Spicer and some of the other visiting Commerce
delegates, who were paralysed at the spectacle of 312 men
riding like Sheol over such roads for a first prize of a
paltry £3O and a gold medal worth £5. “The Dis-
tinguished Visitors ” ran over the course in the latest and
best thing in motor-cars, and beheld with adpiiration the
unique methods of the big Australian company for feed-
ing and checking the men. Another thing that aston-
ished the visitors was the comparatively fresh condition
in which the riders finished. Altogether the Warrnambool
is one of the things Australia can crow about. There is
no other race in the world like it, and, big as it is, it
would have been bigger yet had the Dunlop Co. not
limited the entry.
What will it profit a man to wear out 125 pairs
of boots and lose four years’ work? A person named
Greenlee arrived in Melbourne last week and sat
down with the remark that he had been walking ever
since June 1, 1905, and that the boots he had on were the
126th pair he had bought since he started. Someone
asked for further particulars, and Greenlee then related
the strange story of how he and three others set out from
the Melbourne G. P.O. four winters ago with the deliberate
intention of walking round the world for a prize of
£20,000, offered by an American oil-well owner. The
quartette got along all right and wore out boots peace-
fully until they struck Africa. There two of the party
were slain in a scrimmage with Crocodile River natives,
who had never heard of the wager. After the funeral,
the two survivors resumed the tramp, and struggled
together through Ceylon, India, the British Isles, Europe,
China, Japan and America. In M -xico, the third member
died of fever, and thenceforward the narrator trudged
alone. As he has arrived back at his starting point, it is
a fair thing to assume that he has accomplished the fool-
feat, and is now due to hunt up the £20,000. And the
chances are that he will have to take a swift conveyance
to catch it.
* • ¥ It
The only football occurrence in Melbourne on
Saturday was the League final, between “Sowth” and
Carlton, which drew a somewhat smaller “ house ” than
expected, partly by reason of the Warrnambool road race
and partly because the public is full up, for the time
being, of the muddied oaf. Carlton’s superiority the week
before had also persuaded many that the episode would
he a repetition of the earlier disaster ; but therein they
miscalculated. South realised that it Was nearer the
premiership than it had been for two decades, and that a
little more system and a little less stoush would give it
victory ; and it played accordingly. Yet the Old
Blues strove as valiantly as ever, and when it
came to individual battling they mostly did best.
All through the struggle was strenuous. Four men were
laid out at different times, three of them so seriously as to
be of little further use ; yet the play was a vast improve-
ment on the previous Saturday’s. But the kicking was
awful. At quarter-time each side had scored five behinds
only. At half-time the tally was two/goals nine behinds
each. Lemon-time saw South four goals 12 behinds,
Carlton three goals 11 behinds. It was any-
body’s game. For such an exciting finish the
public seemed singularly calm. In fact, few wanted
either club to top the tree—Carlton had had three years
of it, and it was time someone else had a show ; but it
would have been pleasanter if that someone else had not
been “Sowth.” Still the Red-and-VVhites were doing all
they knew. They got two more behinds ; the Old Blues
replied with a goal. They were a man short now ; still
they strove hard for the goal that meant the premiership.
But, with the persistent bad luck or rotten shooting that
dogged both sides all day, their last shot hit the post, and
“ Sowth” won by two points only—3B to 36. It was their
first premiership for 19 years. The “ gate ” came to
£l2OO, bringing the four days’ takings up lo £5187, of
which the League nets about £4500, one-tenth going into
its official pocket, the balance to the 10 clubs equally.
This seems to be the time to urge the League
delegates to do a little hard thinking and a lot of hard
graft during next summer. The A. A.A. of the Victorian
State schools lately informed them in a pained voice that
the A.A.A. existed to encourage clean, manly sport
among the pupils, and that its efforts were being nullified
by the professionalism, jobbery and rough play of the
League ’bailers. That body was invited to effect
an improvement, failing which the State Schools’
A.A.A. would be compelled to adopt some
other winter game— e.g., lacrosse or hockey. The
delegates are understood to have characterised it as
“ confounded cheek ” ; but if the nippers drop football
(and the inter-school competitions will drop dead
if the A.A.A. so wills) and take up hockey instead
—well, there simply won’t be any football by-and-bye.
It the delegates want to avoid another slump, they will
occupy the next six months in organising a proper system
of district'ball, with provisions that will put a head on
the migratory player ; they will come to an und ts'add-
ing with the Ass. ; they will make laws, after the style of
the Medes and Persians, that will absolutely kill the wil-
fully rough and unmanly player; and they will take a
firm grip of the financial question, and let the public
know accurately what becomes of the thousands the clubs
handle.
“Wang” (Melbourne) : Yes, Australians arc
fond of sport. A week or two ago I strolled down to
Albert Park and took a careful inventory of the different
games in progress. Here is the list: Twelve football
matches (Australian rules), with accompanying bar-
rack ers ; one football match (English Association), with
barrackers ; one game of football (Rugby), with bar-
rackers ; one lacrosse match ; one hockey match ; one
game of rounders (female); one game of stag-knife
(juvenile); one kite-flyer (juvenile); one three-handed
game of marbles ; one two-up academy with lOok-out in
an adjacent tree ; one game of cards; one game of
tennis ; one rink of bowls ; four trotters on speedway ;
35 small boys fishing for yabbies in the lake. On the
lake, 14 yachts were sailing, and six boat-loads of scullers
were training in an undressed condition for Henley ; the
liquid was further congested by 14 people model-
yachting. Whilst I was noting these things down, a hare
and hounds procession streamed across the green, and a
whizzing ball drew my attention to an approaching game
of golf. I didn’t see anyone fiddling with a flying
machine, but there might have been one behind the trees
near the St. Kilda end. As I side-stepped the golfers
and almost fell over a game of early cricket, a small, dis-
reputable voice beside me said, “Give yer a game of
eig’rette cards, mate.”
Football ended in Sydney on Saturday with
the Nurse Cup final in the Soccer division, and the Aus-
tralian Rules Premiership. The combatants for the
Trophy were Balmain-Wentworth and Glebe-Fernleigh.
The hyphenated clubs met at Sydney Agricultural
Ground, and Glebe made the pace merry with the assist-
ance of a mighty wind. Balmain did not bend to the
storm, but made desperate efforts to carry the war into
Glebe territory. Beautiful passing brought Glebe within
shooting distance; but the artillery work was
ruined by as excellent defence as is likely to be seen
for many a long day. Nevertheless, after a series
of well-pressed attacks Glebe scored. Resuming,
Balmain had the benefit of the wind, and the team that
had played such a sterling uphill game bpgan to miss
chances through hanging on too long. After a while
discipline was restored, and Balmain rapidly scored
twice. Glebe pulled itself together and played the game
of its life, but oould not break through the solid defence :
every attack was staved off, and with the howling wind
against it Glebe saw the ball come soaring down into its
own territory again in spite of the most brilliant efforts.
When the whistle blew the scores were unaltered, and
Balmain-Wentworth had won the Nurse Cup with two
goals to one.
* * * *
The other final, between Nbrth Shore and the
Y.M.C.A. for the League Championship, the Sir Harry
Rawson Cup and Norwood Shield, came on at the Agri-
cultural Ground after the Soccer men had retired. Both
teams were in splendid fettle, and the game was a hard
one. It was combination that settled the fate of the day ;
North Shore had just an ounce or so more than the Good
Young Men, so ran out winners by 12 points. The match
was followed by a banquet, at which the victorious team
presented the secretary of the one it had defeated with a
gold badge.
The secretary of the Newtown Football Club
(Australian Rules) has been hurt by the bricks that have
recently been dropped on the club through this column.
He considers that the Newtowners have not earned the
curses, and that, although they may not be altogether
lambs, they are not wholly wolves. All Tub Bulletin
can say is that the Newtown club had better avoid even
th“ appearance of rough play, and then it will get just
the same measure of praise as it has lately had of blame.
On the other hand, Hugh Stone, a well-known
follower of the game, writes: “ I have come to the con.
elusi hi, after watching all the principal matches played
in Sydney under Australian Rules, that drastic changes
are required. Crowding on to the ball has spoiled every
game I have watched, not excepting inter-State matches
played by crack visiting teams. The trouble is too many
players and.too much playing space. The remedy is to
reduce the teams to 14 aside, as the crowd of 36 players
scattered over a wide area is too large to watch, and gives
manv Opportunities for doing things that bring the game
into disrepute.”
Cricket crept into Sydney in a most unob-
trusive manner. No centuries, no sensational perform-
ances with the ball ; only just a large crowd of “flannelled
fools ’’ batting steadily away. The nearest approach to
three figures was the 93 of McMullen, of Burwood, put up
against Sydney. 11. Cranney (Central Cumberland)
smacked up. 80 against University, and Newton (Peter-
sham) slogged 79 against Balmain. The highest club
score was Burwood’s 294 against Sydney. Bowling honors
were with Garrisev (Paddington), who took three Red-
fern wickets for five runs.
On Monday the batsmen warmed up, and
Collins, of Sydney, carried his timber for 133, while
McCartney, of Glebe, made the neat century. North Syd-
ney beat Middle Harbor by four on the first innings ;
Glebe drew with Waverlev ; Burwood eclipsed Sydney
with 46 on the first innings; Redfern dog-wailoped
Paddington by an innings and 15 runs; Petersham
crushed Balmain by an innings and 51 ; and Central
Cumberland downed University by 50 runs on the first
innings.
-** *■*
Laudable, almost classic, reply of Bardsley
when asked if money would induce him to stay in
England to play cricket: “Sydney is my home; Aus-
tralia is my country ! ” Pass the decanter j please.
Although the Australian XI. went to Englan
in a body, the members are coming home in the oraei
usually adopted by Brown’s covys. Trumper, in the van,
will arrive in Sydney about the day this reaches the
groggy hand of the public. The rest are creeping nacK
by various boats. It is pleasing to read that there was
no necessity for the team to fall into the hands of Cohen,
neither is it compelled to walk home, having recenea
£5451 as its share of the boodle raked in.
* * * *
Veteran Alec Bannerman will arrive in Sydney
shortly as “ coach ” to N.S. W. Cricket Association on a
six months’ engagement. He is to be utilised in teach-
ing young players how to win a place in “big cricket,
and thereby do something towards making the Associa-
tion independent of sundry players who have developed
a habit of opening their heads rather wide. The C. G.
Trust is appointing ex-Australian batsman R. A. Duff to
the position of groundsman. So, for once in a while,
two Australian billets are being filled by Australians,
which is amazing.
* - * * *
Petersham (Sydney) came out on top in the
N.S.W. lacrosse premiership with only one defeat in lo
matches. Balmain stands next with 12 wins and a draw.
Although there has been an awakening in N.S.W. lacrosse,
principally through inter-State fixtures, the clubs at the
top of the list contain the cream of the players, and the
persistent annihilation of the weaker clubs is howling for
stricter district limitations.
m * * *
The affairs of the N.S.W. Rugby League grow
no smoother, and threats of legal proceedings are as thick
as leaves in Whatshisname. The defection of the powerful
Balmain Club, about the most financial on the list, was a
bad blow to the League Committee ; and unless someone
does some very tall climbing-down indeed, there is going
to be court work. And Costs.
* * * *
“N.S.W. Swimmers’ League” is the title of a
newly-formed organisation in Sydney which will take in
the army of League footballers, professional cyclists,
pugilists’, etc., who are beyond the veil of amateurism.
There is promise of enough prize-money to make the
most violent amateur’s mouth water. The Swimmers’
League appears likely to create a big hole in the Amateur
Swimming Association, which, by its parsimony, is knock-
ing the pastime out of shape. The League will also make
a bid for the spacious municipal Domain baths and the
gate-receipts therefrom.
* * * •
Having won the challenge round against Eng-
land, the Yankee Lawn Tennis Association notified
Australia last week to get ready to defend its right to
tile Davis Cup. The matches will begin about Nov. 26.
Now that Palmerston North (M.L.) has butted
into the sculling business, Wanganui is rushing round
the hat endeavoring- to rake in £2OO to promote a
“gigantic international sculling handicap,” to take place
about the beginning of January. The proposed contest
on the Manawatu River has made Webbanui realise that
its sculling glory is likely to depart, and it is dashing
about to prevent the exodus. Maoriland’s present little
band of boat-pushers seems to be in for a good time, for
several other townships with a river are reaching out
after the sculling business.
* * * *
It is more than possible that Dick Arnst will
row Durnan or Barry, or both if they are willing to come,
on the la Plata, above all places. Monte Video is offering'
special inducements to get -the three recognised best
scullers of the world to come over to S. America and
settle the vexed question of who is really the best man.
At Monte Video the River Plate is practically the open
sea, and a race under those conditions would be. interest-
ing indeed. It is only a week or two ago since there was
a huge rowing carnival on the Zambesi, near Victoria
Falls, Africa. The world grows small indeed.
* * » *
While champion sculler Harry Pearce is taking
a well-earned rest, brother Sidney is getting into shape
to try conclusions with Robert Hopping on the Parra-
matta on the 13th. The sum in dispute is £5O. Sidney
is said to be shaping excellently, and the Pearce followers
declare that the opposition will be floundering on Satur-
day week. The champion has had a strenuous time of it
of late, having rowed home first no less ihan three times
in 17 weeks, and won for his verv own the William Beach
Cup.
Saturday saw the sailing season opened in
Sydney by the Flying Squadron, which held its first race
on the Beautiful Harbor in a fierce westerly. The well-
remembered Donnelly won the first heat under the
captaincy of G. Holmes; and A. 0. Roberts steered
Desdemona to victory in the second. But in the final
W. J. Duncan in the Vision just managed to pip Desde-
mona on the post, with Crescent only ssec. away.
*■• * *
The well-known Edinburgh gun and rifle-
making firm, D. Fraser and Co., is offering £lOOO first
prize to the winner of the “ All Comers’ Aggregate,”
provided the winner shall have used throughout the
various competitions an “ Ommundsen ” service rifle pur-
chased from the Fraser firm since September Ist, 1909.
In addition there are five prizes of £5O each to the winners
of various competitions who use the same type of rifle,
making in all £1250 to be distributed to shooters who
compete with the “ Ommundsen ” shooting-iron.*
* * * *
.Toe Grimm is into fighting once more, and is
matched to meet Joe Lee at Ballarat (Vic.) the week after
next. Joe is a fool to take the risk, considering the state
of his health. Far better to take an interest in peanuts,
or the punching bag,
* * * *
Bill Lang is talking of a match with Tahmmy
Burns should be manage to knock out Bill Squires at the
next time of asking. The idea that he has recovered his
punch is a hallucination that William sticks to most tena-
ciously. On the other hand, if he has seriously tackled
the problem of clearing his Peel River the
roughest of the lot—it is quite possible that he has found,
not his lost punch, but an elephant’s kick.
The latest about the threatened Gotch-
Hackenschmidt disturbance is the loud remark of E. F.
Baker to the effect that he holds signed contracts from
the pair (with heavy deposits) to wrestle in Melbourne on
January 4 next. Hack, left London on September 7to
tour S’Africa, taking Goonner Moir as wrestling partner.
Moir is alleged to be under contract to fight anyone
Baker chooses, including “Tahmmy,” whom Baker
reckons Moir will beat. Hack, will further wrestle any-
one who happens along and wants a fall taken out of him,
though Baker considers there is only one man —
an almost unknown Maorilander—who has a chance
against him.
The Melbourne cabby is a luckless being
these days. He has to race with the taxi to
snatch at the infrequent passenger, and this
causes him to dash recklessly round corners and
take gusty chances on tram-rails in pursuit of a
crust. His new leaping habits have caused the
police to keep a special eye upon him, and the
canker-worm of the cop eats in fines what the
grasshopper of the taxi has left. Then he also
gets pulled up for overloading; when he has
waited all day in vain for a single passenger lie
gets reckless, and if a family party of ten turns up
he is ready to take the lot. Lately he has
been asking why the tramway people are not
hauled up for overcrowding, but he is told that the
cases are entirely dissimilar. When he overstocks
his vehicle, he is a monster who must be prose-
cuted in the interests of the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Dumb Animals. But the
tram co. cannot be prosecuted, because there isn’t
any Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Dumb Tramcars. Under those circumstances,
cabby thinks that someone ought to be prosecuted
on behalf of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Dumb Cabmen. Still, under The same
circumstances, how could there be dumb cabmen ?
THE BISHOP HOLDS HIS SPRING MEETING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Goulburn Diocesan Synod opened on Wednesday.
Bishop Barlow expressed strong disfavor of the practice
of raising church funds by dances, sports and race meet-
ings.—Sen's Item.
“ They’re off !” The exclamation rose from paddock and
from stands, x
The tense, white faces wildly stared the crowded flat
across.
The Bisltop hitched his gaiters up with white and trem-
bling hands,
And glued his saintly gaze upon each wildly leaping
horse.
“ The Steeplechase will mend the roof, the Hurdles fix the
clioir ;
Tiie Selling race will buy the hymns, the Welter clear
/ the debt.
Oh ! Lord, it may seem sinful, but it is not my desire !
It represents the only way that we’ve invented yet.
“There’s Thompson on the chestnut mare, lie’s riding
stiff, I know —
He’s backed the bay that keeps a length behind him
next the rails ;
But Thompson’s soul we yet may save if we’ve some
money, so
Defend, O Lord, my methods when the Voice of Sin
assails!
No interest have I in it ; the beast at six-to-four
Is not a bit more dear to me than that at ten-to-one ;
And though the brute at twenty-fives makes hackers very
sore,
I’d just as soon it was in front when the wild rush is
done!
“ The swift and reckless thudding of the hooves upon the
sod
Ennobles no one, I admit ; the hooky’s rnadd’ningyell
Do ts not conduce to holiness ; the punter’s cry to God
Is sadly lacking reverence. Likewise, his talk of Hell
Is not pitched in a minor key, as mine is when I fit
The moral to the parable, and roll my anguished eyes ;
It is in reckleis anger that he babbles of the Pit,
When pist the winning-past the rank outsider gaily
flies!
“ Tuere now ! They’re swinging round the turn with
Thompson pulling hard!
(I certainly will speak to him next time I get the
chance !
lie will, no doubt, attend the fete —I know he bought a
card ;
Or, if not there, I’m almost sure to meet him at the
dance !)
Lord, one would think that 1 had got an extra-frisky
flock !
It’s seldom that we meet at prayers! But they must
go the pace
If I’m to have a church, and I can’t help it if we shock
The Truly. Good, who almost kick against the human
race! ”
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Missing- Friends.
EAHY, MICHAEL, son of John Leahy and
Bridget Leahy, of Preston, Victoria, will
learn of something to his pecuniary advantage by
communicating with Williams & Matthews,
Solicitors, 89 Queen Street, Melbourne. If not
heard from within 28 days from this date, applica-
tion will be made to the Supreme Court of Victoria
for administration of his estate as if dead.
EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN.
IF EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN, formerly
of Irthlingborough, England, who was last
heard of in Queensland in the year 1899, or any
issue of his, will apply to the undersigned, they
will hear of something to their advantage.
Anyone giving authentic information of the
above to the undersigned will be well rewarded.
SHARMAN JACKSON & ARCHER,
Solicitors, Wellingborough, England.
Public Notices.
If You Need
Massage, Vibratory Massage, Elec-
tric Light or Electric Bath High-
Frequency Current, or Physical Culture, come to the
MASSAGE HYDRO-ELECTRIC 'ND PHYSICAL
CULTURE INSTITUTE,
where we rapidly heal such complaints as Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Insomnia (Sleepless-
ness), Liver and Kidney Complaints, Indigestion,
Constipation, Stoutnessand Nervous Weakness, a)so
Sprains, etc. We employ Nurses for Lady Patients,
Note Address : Eugradine Chambers, 15 & 17 Eliza-
beth St., near Hunter St., Sydney. ’Phone, City 828.,
Patients are also treated at their own homes.
BISLEY RIFLE MEETING
1910.
FIRST
PRIZE
£lOOO (One Thousand Pounds Sterling), the largest
individual Money-Prize ever offered for Service Rifle
Shooting, will be'paid to the Winner of the
"ALL-COMERS’ AGGREGATE” Competition
at the NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION MEETING at
BISLEY, 1910, provided such winner shall throughout
the several Competitions embraced in the Aggregate have
used an “ Ommundsen ” Service Rifle, purchased by
him from us on or after September 1, 1909.
This is the only condition for qualification to compete
for this unprecedented prize, which is open to the whole
world ; and we further undertake, subject only to the same
condition, to pay the following additional prizes :
To the Winner of the Daily Graphic ••• £5O
„ „ Graphic ••• £5O
„ „ Daily Telegraph-- £5O
„ „ Stock Exchange- £5O
„ „ Ahxandra ••• £5O
The “ Ommundsen ” Service Rifle (strictly in accord-
ance with Government pattern an I specification)is of the
highest quality and finish. Each rifle is carefully tested
and sighted by Mr. 11. Ommundsen, the well-known
rifleman, whose past successes with our rifles are sufficient
proof of their tfficiency.
Price 9 Guineas, cash with order.
Territorial Pattern, 10s. extra.
Orders will be executed in strict rotation.
The “ OMMUNSDEN ” SERVICE RIFLE can be obtained
only from :
DANL. FRASER 8 CO.
Estab.
1878.
Gun and Rifle Manufacturers,
EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND.
London Office: 48 Dover Street, Piccadilly, W.
Cables : “ Gunmakerb, Edinburgh.”
Code: A.8.C., sth Edition.
N.B.—Tlie above Prize of £lOOO is additionally seen,red
by a separate guarantee, particulars of -which
will be supplied to purchasers on application.
THE IDEAL WINTER RESORT
Hydro-Majestic and Hotel
Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains.
3500 ft. above sea level, and just 2£ hours’ railway journey from Sydney.
MOTORS DAILY TO JENOLAN CAVES.
Here, housed in a palatial Hotel and with exquisite scenic environments, one can
realise the Best Winter Holiday.
Telephone 29 Katoomba; or call up CITY OFFICE, 42 CASTLEREACH STREET, Telephone 4349.
SA-VO-LA Ski, a
THE SURE CURE FOR SKIN INJURIES.
9*
smtKWHK
I
&
3r<
7//7;
%
$
L />//.!»■• !tU‘
,4v
&S 9
m
m
£
•’•.viV.j'.v
{:■
j&0
«SA-VO-LA ’ in a few words is best described
as “the Greatest Skin Healer of the Century.”
All medical experts declare the great skin salve, SA-YO-LA to be the most
reliable of skin doctors, and invaluable to all persons in.every grade of life
whevevev accidents may happen. It is a disinfectant, antidote to blood poison,
and a skin-healer combined. It prevents blood poison arising from sores,
wounds, cuts, abrasions, etc., by reducing heat and inflammation and leaving
the injured parts soft, sweet, and cool. Workers in factories, warehouses,
or on farms, cattle-sheds, sheep-stations, mining camps or shearing sheds,
should have SA-VO-LA always handy, because it heals magically.
SA-VO-LA IS THE POCKET SKIN DOCTOR FOR ALL SKIN ILLS.
SA-VO-LA is a sure cure for cuts, sores (chronic or acute), barcoo, rash, itch, burns, scalds, festers,
chilblains, sun-burns, pimples, eczema, skin-cracks, whitlow, scalp sores in children, ulcers, piles,
muscular rheumatism, lumbago, boils, nerve pains, chapped hands, etc.
For Piles it is a most remarkable cure, and, when applied to the part, should be slightly heated to
reduce the balm to a liquid, then saturate a piece of cotton wool, or some other soft material, and
apply. Stubborn cases have been cured in this way.
SA-VO-LA may be obtained of all chemists and 'grocers, price 1/6 the pot, or 3/6 large size,
containing four times the quantity. If not supplied locally, send direct for: a pot, post free on
receipt of price.
The ‘Ray’ Chemical Co., 76 Pitt S#3ydney, m.s.w.
WHEN NOAH BUILT THE ARK
BENNETT & BARKELL,
We weren’t in the Cycle business —we’re very much in it NOW. Our
B . & B. Model 3 Cycle at £ll
is known and appreciated all over the State.
We fit it with first-class tyres and guarantee it a year.
Free wheel, back rim brake, or coaster hub, another 20s.
LET US MAIL YOU OUR NEW 130 PAGE CYCLE BOOKLET.
Mention this paper when writing.
Largest Cvcle-building 234 Pitt Street and
House in the State, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
UIEST’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
* V THE PERMANENT HOME OF 1 THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices—l/6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C. 1/-
Business Announcements.
IN ANY CAR
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT
Gives Best Results
Because of its CONSISTENT Quality.
PSYCHO THERAPY
MENTAL AND MAGNETIC HEALING
The oldest and safest way of alleviating
all sufferings of the human frame.
Up-to-date methods in Massage, Elec-
tricity, Hot Air, etc. All obtained at the
HEALTH INSTITUTE,
43 Phillip St., Sydney (Opp. Works Dept.).
VALD UNMACK, 8.A., 8.L.1. (Haim),
Late Masseur and Demonstrator of Massage to the
Sydney Hospital.
with 4 months
Medlcater, size
3i Inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining-
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose'to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note jos. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 209-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair .
and other Facial Blemishes” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddoeks, in which she explains
her reason for offering £lOO Reward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
The
Four-Minute
Amberol Records.
Songs and music never before offered
in record form can now be had in
Edison Amberol Records, which play
twice as long as standard Edison Records
and longer than any other records of any
kind.
No instrument, except the Edison
Phonograph, plays Amberol Records; so
if you want the music that Amberols
have made possible, your instrument
must be an Edison.
Ask your local dealer to play some
selections for you—the length and purity
of the records will surprise and delight
you..
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
riYHE BULLETIN POST CARDS. -New
Jl Series. IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, (id ;
Packet ot Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 9,
RESUMPTION OE THE RUN of the Real Naval Play,
THE BLAG LIEUTENANT,
Interpreted by the Strongest Comedy Cast ever
associated on the Australian Stage, including
G. S. TITHERADGE, ETHEL WARWICK, DOROTHY
GRIMSTON and THOMAS KINGSTON.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
SYDNEY.
C. WILLIAMSON.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
Lessee and Manager : J.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
THE NEW MUSICAL ROMANCE,
THE KING OB CADONIA.
Interpreted by THE J. C. WILLIAMSON NEW COMIC
OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGItOVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors : Clydh MrYnell and John Gunn.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.
The Production on exactly the same scale as in London.
Plan, Elvy’s. Day Sale, White Rose'.
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
pALACE
SPECIAL MATINEE NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9,
2 p.m.
“THE MARRYING OE MA.”
MR. REGINALD GOODE, MISS LILIAN
BOOTH, MISS ELLA CRONE.
P.ices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Paling’s.
J. Clarence Lee, Director.
-|*HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, O '.'HERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM
DIRECTION OF T. .1. WEST.
Nightly at S; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30,
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices, 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
BIJOU PICTURE PALACE
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
’ The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at S.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mil. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
MISS ATHMORE GREY, Vocaliste and Danseuse, ,
in the World-Famed SALOME DAXCE.
CAPT. WINSTON’S PERFORMING SEALS.
THE TWO BELLS. MR. FRED. BLUETT.
MR. CLARENCE TISDALE. MR. W. A. ROBYNS.
THE WHEELERS, Australia’s Leading Comedy Cyclists.
RONALD GEORGE, English Instrumentalist.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BERTHA STUART, Scotch Vocaliste.
DOLLY HARMER, Character Comedienne.
THREE SISTERS TRAPNELL, Acrobats.
FANNY HALLE, Ladder Expert.
TOM DAWSON, Comedian and Dancer.
TED KALMAN, Vocal Comedian.
BROWN and ROBINSON, Amusing and Novel Act.
MERTON and RYDON, Comedy Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
•THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
0 Sole Lessee and Manager—William Anderson.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 9,
BLAND HOLT’S AMUSEMENT 00.
IN
THE GREAT RESCUE.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. O. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents the
SUCCESSFUL MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE CATCH of the SEASON.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
•yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
A GREAT SUCCESS.
Messrs. MEYNELL & GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO. in
MISS HOOK OE HOLLAND.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is.
A LACIARI U M, MELBOURNE.
Jl Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
GRAND RE-OPENING, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9.
J.i.N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES-WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and-sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
A fervid argument is said to be raging
between the Melbourne City Council and the
owner of a big shop at the corner of Collins and
Swanston streets. Formerly the entrance to the
shop was on the corner of the two streets; but
later that entrance was blocked upand transformed
into a show-window, which left a triangle of land
unoccupied on the corner. Apparently the owner
again wants to build on the triangle, or thinks he
maysomeday ; buttheCityCouncil seems to assert
that he can’t, because the land has been so long
out of use that it has become public property.
The owner or his barrackers assert, on the other
hand, that it hasn’t been out of use any more than
an arcade is out of use, or the open entrance to a
shop door. The territory isn’t much larger than
would allow a spider and a fly to have an argument
in comfort; but there are the makings of a
mountain of Costs in it.


Until 8 Years Old —Face First Af-
fected, Then Body—Eyes Almost
Hidden Legs a Mass of Humour
—Clothes Stuck Fast to Flesh —
Parents Fought Disease in Vain.
ANOTHER GREAT CURE
EFFECTED BY CUTICURA
“At the age of three months I first
commenced to suffer from eczema which
m
started on the forehead
as a red patch. This
gradually broke out in
spots and in time spread
all over my face. Vari-
ous remedies were tried,
but without success. I
then commenced treating
according to the doctor’s
orders, but not much
good was done. After a
few months of this, the disease began to
spread all over my face and my parents
tell me that at this stage my eyes were
like looking into two holes, as the spots
were so bad. Eventually the disease
left my face only to break out in other
parts of my body. They tried medi-
cines, herbs and soaps, and in fact any-
thing that was recommended.
“This trouble went on until I was
eight years old. At that age my par-
ents decided to give the Cuticura Reme-
dies a trial. When they were first used,
the condition I was in must have been
extra bad, as they tell me they had to
peel my shirt from my back, as it used
to stick to the sores. My legs were a solid
mass of eczema from the inside to the calf.
My stockings used to stick every day and
they had to be pulled off along with the
spots. I had to wear gloves to keep me
from scratching the sores. The first
night Cuticura was used I slept all night,
which was a thing I had not done for
some time. An improvement could be
seen immediately and after using three
sets of Cuticura Soap, Ointment and
Resolvent I was practically cured.
Cuticura Soap was continued for about
twelve months when I was quite free
and my skin clear again. This is twenty
years ago now and I have never suf-
fered since. George A. Gibson, 35, New-
ton, Dalton on Furness, Lancs, Eng.,
Aug. 14, 1908.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
A single set often cures. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Aus-
tralia, R. Towns <fe Co., Sydney; U. S. A., Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Boston, oar Post free, book
giving treatment and cure of Skin Diseases.
*Oll
NERVOUSNESS.
The English Home Remedy is
Nature’s cure for all Nervous
Troubles. It works wonders in
curing every form, of Nervousness,
Loss of Energy, Despondency and Debility. It
has cured after years of unsuccessful use of every
so-called remedy employed for the purpose. If
you have some particularly obstinate symptoms of
Nervous and allied troubles, don’t delay tr}'ing
this remarkable discovery. Valuable Booklet
sent Free to those interested.
London Specialities Agency,
Dept. 5, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
*
Try this
SPECIAL
line of
Derby
Shoe,
in Welted or
Pump Soles,
Best Glac6
Kid, with
Patent Caps
and Cuban
Heels.
Price,
16/6
Postage 9d.
extra.
II cleaned with
LEEMING’S
Gazeka Shoe Paste
(6d. per tin),
the Wear is Guaranteed.
Send for Price Lists—Free. ’Phone 1799.
LEEMING’S Shoe Stores.
109 Swanston St, Melbourne; 303 Chapel St.,
Prahran; 1 & 3 Errol St., North Melbourne.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATiNE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATiNE Sold by All Chemists.
LAXATiNE Equally Good for Children and
LAX A TINE A dui ts.
LAXATiNE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
EREIIOS
SALT
Agents—Harrison &• Attwood , Sydney.
DORLICK’S
11 MALTED MILK
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
\ upwards, Horlick’s Malted
\MIlk is an ideal food-
\ beverage, easily digested
\ nourishing, invigora
\tmg. It is indispens-
\ able to invalids
\ and the aged
\ and provides
\ a full diet
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
Horlick’s
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MALTED MILK Ltd.. Slough, Bucks., Eng.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
Hawßes h Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Atelbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
PEOPLE
WHO
ARE
FAT
CQPILD raon ACTUAL* -PdQIQOAAPiIS
often fail to fully realize what a tremendous
burden they are carrying. A body intended
to carry ten stone must suffer severely when
constantly loaded with 50 per cent, excess
weight. Dead weight, useless tissue. Why
do you carry it ? Obesity ruins the health.
“Fatcure”
reduces excess weight and cures Obesity.
It reduces and keeps down Corpulence. It
rids the body of five pounds superfluous fat
per week. No drastic dieting or exercise is
required. It is harmless and pleasant to take.
Improves the general health and restores a
good figure. The fat, once removed, does
not come back Send 2d. stamp, or
CALL for FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
Watworth Co., Suite
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
WMP t 1
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES* PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage, 2Jd.).
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
That Have Caught On!
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover—full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed and
illustrated in Australia —you
ought to read them —they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E.Birtles; price, cloth, 3/6
postage, sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price
paper, J/- ; postage 3d.
BACK AT OUE>
SELECTION
STCOE
RUDD
Duncan McClure, by
“ Steele Rudd ” ; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
(The above two com-
bined) ; price, cloth,
3/6 ; postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by
“ Steele Rudd ” ; pri'-e,
paper, 1/- ; portae 3d.
Back at Our Selection,
by “Steele Rudd ” ;
price, paper, 1/- ; pos-
tage 3d.
From Selection to City,
by “ Steele Rudd ” ;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
age 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd”; price, paper, 1/-
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “Steele Rudd ” ; price, paper
1/- ; postage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth, 3/0
postage sd.
Settler and Savage, by
Chas. De Boos ; price,
cloth, 1/- ; postage 4d.
Do., paper, 1/-; post-
age, 3d.
On the Fringe of the
Never-Never, by H. K.
Bloxham;price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James
Green ; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by
Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by 0. D.
Websdale; price, cloth,
1/-; postage 3d.
Rkwi
ELECTION
TO
n-
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by A. Pratt;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
sadid
JBUB
GBD
Briar
Pipes
They copy us
They follow us
They never catch us.
You buy
and you buy
the Best.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
TOUR
WITH
lOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
SPRING SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sols Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear.
Business, Robbery, etc.
In Melbourne Practice Court recently the first
move was made in what promises to be an interesting- law
case. Daniel Jacob Gans, of the Gans and De Saxe Manu-
facturing- Agency Co,, seeks to set aside an agreement
made between James Henry Riley and the said co.,
whereby Riley seemingly acquired practical possession of
the assets of the said co., and complete control of its
management, in consideration of his advancing £5OOO
(bearing 6 per cent, interest) repayable on demand.
Plaintiff's allegation that this was “inequitable,
illegal, harsh and unfair” involves a charge of
some sort against Riley and his solicitor, Montv
Cohen. The case is strangely complicated on the surface
by the bringing in of six Hebrew gentlemen and one
Hebrew lady as co-defendants with Riley, whereas these
other parties were co-shareholders with the plaintiff, and
are alleged to have been equally victimised with him by
the bond that gave Riley full command of the whole bag of
tricks. The allegation is that all the Hebrew members of
the co. “ were induced to enter into this agreement by
the fraud of Riley and his solicitor, who for many
yeqrs had been, and was, his secret partner and co-
adVenturer in many speculations, and who, while pur-
porting to act for the plaintiff and the said defendants,
secretly acted for Riley’s benefit, and took undue advan-
tage of the plaintiff and the said defendants.” The bond
was signed in March, 1908, and seemingly the history of
the company since then is known only to Riley and his
lawyer. Last year’s balance-sheet is said to show that
the co. had £2oiooo worth of surplus assets, when,
being overstocked, it needed financing and gave.itself
over to financier Riley’s care. On that evidence the
plaintiff asks for more than the cancelling of the alleged
“ illegal and unfair ” agreement. He wants an injunction
to restrain James Riley from dealing with the shares of
the company and an interim injunction to restrain him
front demanding immediate repayment of the £5OOO loan
(with interest at 6 per cent.), and re-transfer of the shares
and £20,000 damages. The facts are dry, but the bearings
of the case are full of juice, Riley and Montague Cohen
are said to have “ adventured ” in so many Melbourne
businesses of divers kinds.
Apropos to the case of Gans v. Riley and others,
the Vip. Law Institute and the Committee of Counsel are
laboring with a question of legal,professional ethics.
Barristers Duffy, E.C., and Starke were consulted by
plaintiff’s solicitor prior to the issue of the writ, and each
received a conference fee. It is said to be understood that
the conference fee of £1 6s. answers the same purpose in
etiquette as the “ retaining” fee (£1 Bs. fid.) of yore. A
conference is supposed to give the solicitor first
call on the services of the barrister if action be
taken, and in this case it was intended to secure both
Duffy and Starke. When the writ was issued, both of
these counsel were offered a brief by the other side.
Duffy followed the rule of placing himself at the option
of the plaintiff’s solicitor, who had previously conferred
with him, and by whom he was duly briefed. Starke, on
the other hand, accepted a brief from the defendant’s
lawyer, whereupon the opposition lawyer laid his griev-
ance before the legal masters of ceremonies.
-**■**
Though it pays a 10 per cent, div., and has
enough left over to supply shareholders with frequent
huge bonuses, the C.S.R. Co. looks quite hurt when any-
body accuses it of being an octopus, and of squeezing the
very heart opt of the Australian sugar-growing business.
But as if the big divs. and the huge bonuses weren’t
enough, a committee which wants to get a fair deal for
the growers has now prepared this comparison
Raw Sugar. Refined. Margin.
England ..-£lO 5 0 £l2 5 0 £2 0 0
America ..15 3 4 18 15 0 3 11 8
Australia .. 10 11 0 16 12 6 6 1 6
Also growers with long memories are heaving destructive
bits of history at the company. Before the State-
guaranteed mills were erected in Queensland the mono-
poly’s price for cane at Maekay dwindled down to Bs. 6d.
per ton. After the State mills arrived the prices
gradually went up to 18s. 6d. In N.S.W., when small
mills with indifferent plants kept up a battery of opposi-
tion, the co. made few conditions and paid good prices.
Gradually the small mills were wiped Out, and the cane
prices promptly started to shrivel up, or conditions were
imposed which worked out to the same result. A fair
price continues to be paid for cane of high grade, but the
rates for the balance get down close to freezing point.
For the past eight or 10 years the N. S. Wales growers
have been growling ; but that makes no difference,
because there are no other mills to buy their cane, and
the co. knows it.
*, * * *
“Janor”: Old hands on remote Vic. mining
camps have had the surprise of their lives since the Gold
Buyers Act arrived. These ancients have pursued the
pennyweight for the last 30 or 40 years on the same old
creek and its gullies, with the result that they know
every boulder, and speak familiarly about every tree.
Also they can point out where “she was payable,” or
“not worth tucker,” and can show you where the rich
“dabs” were gouged out, and where the blanks c-ame in.
Then the surprise drifts in, along with a stranger who
“goes prospecting.” The bush swallows him up for a
week—perhaps two. But one morning he drops in on
the local gold-buyer and sells a fine parcel, then jumps
into the outgoing coach and fades away. In half an
hour the unusually large sale is known all over
the township, and there is a rush of ancient men
heavily laden with assorted ironmongery searching for
the departed stranger’s workshop. When found, it is
mostly on one of the old abandoned claims. Neverthe-
less, the old identities “bog in,” the stranger’s “faces”
are tried, and holes sunk all round, but always with one
result—not a dashed color. After which the toil-worn
and disgusted ancients amble back to their huts making
remarks about the Act and some person named Dent or
Bent who passed it. After which, they sit round specu-
lating as to what district the stuff really came from.
Bent’s Act has produced this gigantic reform, that the
g.old-stealer or illicit gold-buyerhas n.ow,to goto a strange,
locality and dig a hole which is afterwards fatal to cows
in order to account for the stuff in his possession.
Formerly he didn’t dig any hole.
THE CRAYFISH KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He stands four-square to the fish-shop winds, and his
dial is large and red,
And he beams a bright broad smile all night in the
morgue of the deep-sea dead ;
And the flair of his trade is around his knees—it’s a simple
one, white and blue,
Though it ought to be black, with a plain white skull and
a bare shin-bone or two.
When the Saturday evening crowd drifts by, with a
terrible list to port.
You will notice the Crayfish King at work with the cray-
fish-selecting sport;
You will hear the sport, in a voice of beer : “ Yesh ! A
cray—hup !—prayfish ! Yesh!”
For the midnight prize of the Saturday sport is a crayfish,
fairly fresh.
Oh, listen —the smell of the free wild sea, of the seaweed
dank and green ;
Of the oyster-stacks—with a line of smells, unplaceable,
in between !
Yet the fish o’ the free wild sea are not so free when ibey
reach the shore ;
In fact, they bring to the Crayfish King as much as a bob,
or more.
And this is the prayer of the people now, as the night
goes blazing by':
“ Hie—cray ! A cray—hup !—prayfish ! Yesh ! ” With
a piercing and frenzied cry
They slope for the station, the crayfish crazy army of gay
galoots,
With wild boiled Cray's against their hearts and wild feet
in their boots.
The sloping multitude, crayfishful, goes off for its mid-
night train. . . .
And the King goes into his counting-house and he counts
up his easy gain ;
And the gain he makes is a lovely gain, and it ought to
be greatly less,
For the Crayfish King keeps galley-slaves at the back of
his bus-i-ness.
If we tvere our own good Crayfish King , and the boss of
our own blue sea.
We’d get Cheap Fish — aye, we’d have it today if it ivasn’t
for you and me.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


An Unequalled Nerve and Brain Food
PLASMON
Contains
The Organic Salts and Phosphorus of Milk
in a natural sufficiency without the need of any
artificial addition of phosphates.
Brassey Road, Winchester.
r^^v f rrot y r m I f»2l„s i de g /what P I have taken of your prepares
has kept me from the grave.
Plasmon is Used by the Royal Family,
and has received the of^edtea.
Men, Explorers and Athletes
PLASMON
is the Best Pant of Nature’s Best Food-Milk, and added
to food increases the nutritive value enormously .-LANChI.
PLASMON, PLASMON COCOA, PLASMON CHOCOLATE,
PLASMON BISCUITS, ETO. Of all Cheats. Grocers and Stores.
PLASMON, Ltd., London. Australian Depot- 5 & 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
trade mark.
ISSS?
Do you remember, ms
a boy, how delighted
you were with your first
STEVENS ? Truly an
event at that time.
Give YOUR BOY a
STEVENS now. Will
add to his happiness and
education.
Make a Man of Your Boy!
Ask Your Dealer.
Insist on STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian representative for
STEVENS ARMS Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. A.
UNSHRINKABLE
JAY F/v
&
■s^wrinka^
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever=increasing sale in all parts of the world- It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by Patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS MiQ OUTFITTERS-
Wholesale only: 1. & R- MORLEY & CO. and GESO. BRETPLE !&. CO., London, England
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAF: bear* tke above Trade Mark.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles. Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
See the passing Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
people look thin —thin
people look stout. The
Laughing: Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
All growfat from laughter.
It is well and strongly
made, and cannot get out
The Laughing Camera.
llldUCy cHIM t/iuiii o ,
of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
bandies, spring
back. Puzzle to shut ,
as well as to open. Makes a splendid
use, also a superior rabbiter s knife.
I directions, 2/2, post free anywhere.
knife for seneral
Price, with full
THE POLYCHROMATIC BILLIARD BALL.
After introducing any
number of silk handker-
chiefs, each of a different
color, the conjurer re-
quests the company to
select any one of the
handkerchiefs (no forc-
ing). Seizing the selected
handkerchief, the per-
former waves his hand
gently up and down, when
the handkerchief becomes
smaller and smaller until
it finally disappears alto-
gether, having given place
to a solid billiard ball of
the same color as the
handkerchief. This is a
very novel and inexplic-
able trick, while the
apparatus that we furnish
tforibhieitß'ick is made of very substantial and superior
lmaberisH, anil quite impossible to get out of order.
[Suitable for either amateur or professional.
CornpKete with red, white and blue handkerchiefs.
JPxLceijwith full instructions), f/6 ; l»ost free, 2/«
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY, 7 Ha y «Kt, E svDNEY T '
11 " H L HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
KO ; :
NO RATS or MICE SEEN
Since using DANYSZ VIRUS. Discovered at the
Pasteur Institute, Paris. See testimonials.
Single Tubes, 26, five for 10/- Post Free from
DANYSZ VIRUS,
454-6 FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE,
and 13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Harmless to other animals. All chemists and storekeepers.
Tfiflidfrd L&kg Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing m
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
333-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Weakness
_ . ... . Tif ~ h , tt ,. is a hard one, and you must haste steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
Ld?o e f The weak* man or woman must
physical vitality should be of applying Electricity for the. perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak: person.in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure m every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the wor d.
DRUGS ME USELESS!
Dracs cannot and will not care the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
nev Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, ete., ete. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
vou will be beyond curing ;■ your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body-as it travels over the herves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system-not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force-and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
he supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy aud brain power to
succeed Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality' makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
a i Mh into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands Of
the sunbeams of happiness and health simple easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
testimonials to prove .11 our our Wt« Mmi, e y reacll of all; Drloe £1 aud up.
It has special attachments for men ana womc J
Beware of cheap imitations.
3*
X
//
&
\\ x
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of you
case free. All communications are treated with strict con
fidence. For private address, address: o.
the mclaughlin co.,
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
Dep. .10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
12


CAMBRIC
DRESS
To Order 2J
DO you know what our 10y 2 d.
yd. Cambric is like?
It is a fine quality, and it is
stocked in the newest shades and the
smartest designs.
Well, we'll make you a dress of
any pattern you like —we’ll send you
samples—for 2//-
Cheap ? Of course it's cheap !
Haven't we always said that “ you
can't beat Finney's " ?
One of Finney's Guinea Dresses,
crowned with a Finney Guinea Hat
and there you are!
When shall we make them for you
and save you money ?
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
The New Queensland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Brieul has been appointed director of the School of
Tropical Medicine to be established at Towsville. He is
well known for his researches in connection with try-
panosomata.— Neivs item.
THE anopheles shall sing no more
As he injects malaria,
For Brieul’s coming to our shore,
And soon we shall have nary a
Mosquito, and it’s au revoir
To| pulex and ascaria.
Yes, BrieuFs coming out from ’Ome
To send where Ananias is
The slippery trypanosome
And bugs that cause myiasis ;
And demonstrate the hand of Rome
In ankylostomiasis.
He’ll talk to folk when’er. they .meet
Until he makes their error seen
In doing nothing. He will sheet
Each waterhole with kerosene,
Till tropic marshes smell as sweet ’ '
As some about Canberra seen.
No more shall there be any fear
If, when you’re very drunk, you lie
Upon the ground, of being near
Filarae or dracunculi,
Or getting jigger on the ear
Or horrible furunculi.
To beat the trichina he’ll show
The men who fatten hams a way,
He’ll teach the squatters how to blow
Out pests that take their lambs a wav j
But it is pleasant news to know
He can t take our jim-janis away !
TfCTOKIA.
J ACQ.
On the Diamentina.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE were journeying among the sand-
hills of the Diamencina, in the south-
west of Queensland, and some miles
from the scattered channels of that so-called
river.
hoi a night and a day we had made our way
across the strike of the sand dunes without water,
and Thirst was beginning to stare us blankly in the
wind-scorched countenances. About three o'clock
that afternoon the trend of the sand ridges took a
more south-easterly direction, which was somewhat
in the line of our route, so, in order to save the
strength of our horses and to break the monotony of
climbing the interminable billows of that great
dry ocean, we deviated slightly and followed
down the polygonum flats between the bald wind-
worn hummocks.
All that blazing afternoon until dusk fell we
traversed the base of a gigantic sand-wave. For
20 miles by our track this monster dune ran un-
broken on our right, rearing its white scarred
summit to an average height of at least 50ft. above
the claypan on which we rode.
When the warm-breathed, dewless night came
down on that parched region it found us still
pursuing our dogged, not to say desperate way.
\\ e rode far into the night, hugging the base of
the hummock, and ever and anon keeping a blood-
shot, sand-stung eye on the Southern Gross, lest
our bearings should go awry.
At length, saddle-sore and weary to the marrow,
I pulled up, about what time the young half-moon
was dipping behind the bald crest of the dune
My mate, who was punching the jaded horses
along behind me, crept up out of the gloom.
“ w e’U camp here,” I remarked in a drv, husky
tone, and slid off my tired horse. Then I
suddenly cursed with clear pronunciation, and
clambered back into the saddle, for the ground
along the base of the big sandhill was thickly
strewn with bindii—the kind of bindii that grows
nowhere in Australia but among the sandhills of
the lower Diamentina. Then I looked up in the
starlight at the clean, bare, wind-tossed summit
of the dune, and as the night was calm and the
sand at rest, I'rode for it, up the slope, to find a
camp. A few moments later I pulled up my
horse on the crest with a jerk, and any person
could have knocked me down wdth a sledge
hammer.
The young moon was setting straight before
me, about an hour high, across a sheet of water
outspreading from the feet of the hummock as an
ocean might outspread from' some sand-bound
coast, and of an extent which sho.Wecl no other
shore than the one on which 1 stood. A? far as
the naked eye could scan, the long,, byoad, silvery
street of shimrhe'ring moonlight on the surface of
the waters stretched Westward into infinity and
beyond. Dense polygonum bushes were silhouet-
ted blackly against the sparkling waters where
they fringed the margin of the'lake. Blight and
left stretched the white, wind-scarred crest of the
ridge on which I stood until the gloom and the
distance swallowed it, while over all glittered the
cloudless, star-strewn sky.
My mate came beside me silently through the
gloom and the white sand, and then die too sat
like an image of bronze on his horse, surveying
the scene by the waning light. Finally he broke
the spell. *f By Hell ! ” was what he said.
It was the work of a few moments only to drag
off packs and saddles and fling them on the sand ;
but before the last horse was hobbled out the
leaders were ambling in their clanking shackles
down the slope and heading into the lake about
where the long street of glittering moon-reflections
touched the shore.
We stood awhile watching them walk, with
their muzzles lowered to the surface of the water,
straight out, a hundred paces or more into the
lake, but never stop to drink. A furlong from
the shore and still they walked, their hooves un-
covered and their noses brushing the surface of
the waters. They walked straight up the lane of
waning light, for the moon was setting then
behind a bank of haze. Gigantic, mammoth-like
and black they loomed in silhouette against the
illuminated surface of the lake, upon whose waters
they seemed literally to walk. It was an eerie
sight—a scene full of ghostliness and beauty.
Had we been newchums to that weird, lone
region we must have collapsed with astonishment-
but we knew what we had struck—a perfectly
dead-level tract of clay pan upon which some
patchy thunderstorm had lately fallen. Then I
tookjup two billies and a pint pot and strode down
the sand slope to the clay pan, while my mate
made afire with some scattered brushwood.
Keeping a little to the right of the horses’
tracks, I wandered, in the gloom, out into the
claj pan a full quarter mile before I found suffi-
cient depth from which to spoon up the yellow
glush that passed for water. And it was by mere
accident that I discovered any such depression—a
WHEN THE BRICK DROPPED
INDIGNANT PEDESTRIAN: "It's a lueky thing you didn't hit me with that brick, you
careless seamp."
BRICKY'S ASSISTANT: "My oxth! I'd ha' got the suck for a vert."
place where an old polygonum bush had rotted
out and where latew winds, securing the, dead-
level surface m dry times, had scooped away the
loosened soil.
With yellow slush of a thin, pea-soup consist-
ency we quenched our thirst, made tea, and mixed
our midnight damper.
lhat night we slept like kings on couches of
white, wind-driven sand—soft and pure and fine.
lhe paling of the eastern skv at dawn showed
us an altered scene. A vast expanse of dismal
yellow plain, slush-covered and dotted with
forlorn-looking polygonum bushes, was spread out
to the far horizon, where, on every hand, low
down against its hazy rim showed the white,
towering crests of more dunes, barren, bald and
grim, their snowy summits glistening in the rising
sun. °
I had to walk two miles out on to the claypan
that morning to bring in the horses, which were
round browsing on some scanty bluebush growing
on a sort of island in its midst. On mv way L
took gauging.s of the so-called lake. IVIy researches
as recorded on the butt of my stockwhip handle’
proved it, so far as my explorations went, to
average exactly § of an inch iii depth.
MALLARAPOONIE.
The Queensland Parliament has lost both
of its poets. Peter Airey put up a good fight for
Brisbane feouth, but was beaten by a handful of
votes; and Francis Kenna had the same bad
luck at Bowen. Ividston, it is true, perpetrated
some poetry 16 or 18 years ago, and he is still in
the Mouse ; but his outburst of verse appears to
have been purely.accidental.
Brisbane and suburbs gave the poorest
account of themselves in the recent elections ; the
country districts mostly kept on the straight
path, but they couldn’t quite undo the damage
done in the big centre of population. A good
section of Brisbane isitcliing for another boom ; and
it is to the eternal credit of the Queensland Labor
party that that section knows it has very little
chance of getting the drunk it wants from the
crowd behind Dave Bowman.
At the time of writing it looks just about
certain that Phidston will have a majority in the
new Assembly, provided that that remarkable
aggregation of Tories and Radicals (more or less)
and white-laborites and black-laborites doesn’t fly
apart. There are one or two results in doubt'-
u on ren ™ r kable aggregation seems to have
about 89 or 40 members in a House of 72. It isn’t
what was expected of Queensland, and it isn’t
the answer Queensland would have given if Philo
hadp t been kept well in the background in those
places where it wasn’t politic to represent him as
the power behind the throne. As for Pbilp him-
self, he had the battle of his life, and just managed
to crowd in ahead of the third man, a Laborite,
leaving his colleague last on the list.
Horace Tozer is coming back to Banana-
land, and a new Agent-General is to be appointed
a “ well-known commercial man of Brisbane,”
if he can be secured. During the discussion on
the Queensland Estimates, every year since 1904,
-Tozer s name has been belted with great energy,
and every Government has grimaced as it played
the part of apologist. Tozer’s narrowest escape
was during Arthur Morgan’s regime, when he got
a letter that would have made most men resign in
a hurry. But Tozer didn’t. After that he
brought the maid out with Mrs. Tozer, and the
Mrs. Tozer’s maid” story ran in double harness
with the Petriana myth. Since then Tozer has
been quieter. Still the safest place for him is
here at home, because here at home we know him.
Dr. Anton Breine is to be first director of
the School of Tropical'Medicine which is to be
set up at Townsville (Q.) as a sort of appendix to
the Sydney University. Breine is a, German
scientist; and when a German scientist sets out
on the track of a bacillus, the odds are against the
reptile. Up to now this particular doctor has had
most success, in probing Africa’s sleeping sickness
on behalf of the Liverpool School of Tropical
Medicine. So far, the North of Australia is
singularly free from any trouble of that kind ;
)ut apart from malaria—which is now pretty
tnoroughly understood—there is enough m the
curious dirt-eating disease of some districts of the
North to keep the spectacled gentleman’s micro-
scope busy for a while. This Bulletin doesn’t
know for certain whether Dr. Breine wears spec-
tacles ; but it presents him with a pair on general
principles.
“C.S.A.”: Archdeacon Campbell, the
father of the cotton and several other embryo
industries in the Far North, is heading for the
lair of Bull. The Arch, intends, if possible, to
return with enough Anglo-Semitio capital to
finance the erection of a spinning mill in the
vicinity of the cotton centres. And just here
D. Bowman, leader of the Queensland Labor
party, should find his chance. He ought to be
Premier before the Arch, gets back, and as
Queensland Private Enterprise hasn’t' taken up
the manufacture of cotton, he should issue in good
time a definite pronouncement rc the establish-
ment of State cotton mills, and thus head off the
Arch, ’s absentee capitalists. The Arch, doubtless
means well, but clerics are usually loose on poli-
tical economy, and don’t seem to drop to the fact
that wherever an Australian industry can be kept
in Australian hands it should be kept there.
“ San Remo ” : After the recent fight in
Brisbane over shop-assistants’ wages the chairman
of the Board gave his easting vote in favor of a
minimum of 50s. a week in the drapery and 455. in
the grocery trade. When he saw how things were
going, the secretary of the union struggled hard
for the extra ss. for the'grocery hands. But it
was no go—he was flattened out with the usual
yarn that groceries were every-day necessaries,
and that the extra money would put up the cost
of living until the public would be driven to can-
nibalism or something of that sort. Then the
union sec. went home and figured it out, and dis-
covered that if the grocers charged one-eighth of
a penny per lb. extra on sugar alone it would
not only pay the whole of the extra 55,, but
would leave something over for the boss. The
sec. brought down his figures at the next meeting,
and invited the employers’ reps, on the Board to
pull them to pieces if they could; but they couldn’t.
Still the Board didn’t budge—though as likely as
not the grocery men took note of the powerful
effect that an eighth of a penny rise in sugar would
have on their profits,.'. ,7/V\,
Queensland’s Sweated Bobby.
The plaint of Queensland’s cheap cop :
After reading “Cantab’s” par. (B. 26/S/’O9) on the
sweated Maoriland police force, I decided to hand in nay
baton and “bracelets” (which are all the uniform that
Queensland police get from the State), and I’m off to help
protect that £4,000,000 Joe Ward keeps lying about to
buy Dreadnoughts with.
If “Cantab’s” figures are correct, a constable can
start in M.L. at 7s. Od. per day. Here in Queensland he
starts at ss. lid. per day, and never reaches that 7s. 6d.
■mark, as the highest he can get as a constable is 7s. Ud.
per day, and this cannot be reached till after IS years’
service, and he must have two years of a “clean sheet”
preceding each of his munificent “ rises.”
The Maoriland Robert must serve one year before he is
allowed to marry ; but in Queensland the girl (and some-
times the little one) must wait t,\\l five years are served,
and then the “ house allowance” is the same old shilling
a day.
In Maoriland the yearly holidays are 12. In Queensland
the regulations allow oniy seven days each year ; but the
present Commissioner often stretches this period.
The Queensland constable must buy every article of
uniform ; and as the bulk of us, outside the cities, have
to act both as mounted and foot, a rig-out costs over £lO,
and that doesn’t include walking boots. (One pair of
riding boots and breeches alone costs £5.)
To make things worse, we have now to pay 4 per cent,
of our salary to a superannuation fund, whereas formerly
only 2 per cent, was paid. Yet the pension allow-
ance works out at rather less than one-third of what
the old “two per centers” received. For example,
formerly a man who had served 30 years and was pen-
sioned off as a second class, sub-inspector would draw full
pay (13s. 6d. per day). Now, a man of the same rank
and service can only get half his average pay for the
whole period, or 4s. Id. per day. This swindle .of a
pension has cost him, on an average, about 4d. a day for
30 years, not computing interest; and if a man dies a
month after being pensioned—well, that ends the matter.
His widow and children get nothing.
Reform is promised in the new Parliament by both
parties ; and the whole force will watch the division list
when the next Estimates come on.
Amongst the many things* a man has to give up for
that “ss. lid. a day” is the right to combine with his
fellows, and agitate for better conditions of pay and
pension ; so if Tim Bulcktin publishes this it will earn the
gratitude of many a Queensland constable, who is pro-
hibited from doing any battling for himself.
The Phidstori leaders haven’t personally
got much to be proud of. In their own districts
where, presumably, they are best known—Kid-
ston scraped in second; and Philp is a new
Labor member’s junior.
Queensland’s new Parliament will contain
some curious politicians. Two of the new mem-
bers— lolmie and Bouchard—were originally sup-
porters of the Morgan-Browne Coalition. Both
ratted to Philp, and both were passed out three
years ago, their places being filled by a Kidstonian
and aLaborite. Both tried to recover their seats as
Philpites 18 months ago, during the “con-
stitutional crisis ” election, and both were again
gravelled. Now they have come up smiling as
Kid-Philpites, and have squeezed in. A fusion
gives openings for some strange political freaks.
The attitude of Brisbane’s three daily
papers during the elections was a study. The
Courier went bald-huadedly for the Fusion, and
lifted its old enemy, Kidston, to the heavens ;
the Daily Rail started the campaign gingerly,
wondering how it could pose as a democrat and
vet make sure of being on the winning side ; and
the telegraph was vapid. The once vitriolic
lelegraph doesn’t know which way to turn these
times. It has been so often baulked in its own
tin-pot aspirations that it has become like Mrs.
Grummidge-—a poor lone lorn creatur’, with
everything going contrairy with her. For the
first time for some years the Courier now experi-
ences the sensation of having “won an election.”
But there are defeats that are less disgraceful
than victories. .
►Stewart Hartley, of Rockhampton’s Daily
Record, died in the thick of the political fight.
He went to Rockhampton in 1864, and, after 15
years or so, became part owner of the Morning
Bulleitn— -now the mouthpiece and echo of
M ilham Kidston. At the parting of the ways,
Hartley left the Bulletin and joined his father-
in-law, C. H. Buzacott, in buying the Northern
Argus, which became the Record in 1896; and
since then he has plugged along with Conserva-
tism for a road-mate. He was a mighty bad
politician, but otherwise Rockhampton holds for
him a warm corner in its tropical heart.


LABORERS BECOME CAPITALISTS.
In the Mackay District alone half-a-million pounds
worth of sugar, equalling a producing value of
£5OO per farm, was the product of a thou,sand
farmers, FULLY THREE-FOURTHS OF
WHOM CAME TO THE DISTRICT AS
AGRICULTURAL LABORERS.
Millions of acres of good sugar land are now
awaiting the advent of the settler, who, by the
expenditure of labor and capital, can remove
the enchantment of the ages, and can transmute
soil and sunshine into gold.
Mr. A. G. Davies says: " Sugar-growing in
Queensland offers to the new settler attractions
probably greater than those presented by any
other branch of agriculture. Vast areas of
rich scrub lands on the Atherton tableland, and
in other parts of the rich, districts around
Cairns, are now awaiting development. Equally
good land is readily obtainable in the Ayr and
Bowen districts, while all along the coastal
fringe of Queensland from the Nerany district
northwards, are SCRUB LANDS OF AMAZ-
ING FERTILITY, capable of yielding a
- handsome livelihood to many hundreds of
energetic and methodical farmers.
The same authority says: ‘"Many hundreds of
men who were brought to Queensland as assisted
immigrants, and landed without a shilling in
their pockets, are now comfortably settled on
their own sugar farms avid earning a good
living with all the blessings of an independent
condition. What such as these have done in
the past others can confidently, look to do in
the future; and it is people who arc prepared
hopefully and cheerfully to start in this wap
that Queensland needs just now.”
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XL.
FORTUNES IN SUGAR.—II.
BY J. D. FITZGERALD, Barrister-at-Law.
The beginnings of the Sugar industry present
many.picturesque features, as pioneer work usually
does. They were daring men who, in the ’sixties
of last century, tried and partially failed with
sugar. Captain the Hon- Louis Hope (a cadet of
the Hopetoun clan) was the real, substantial
pioneer; for while sugar cane was introduced into
Queensland in 1847, and sugar manufactured
from the home grown-eane in 1862, it was as a
mere curiosity, as one might grow a Dutch bulb
in a private or public garden to-day. But Cap-
tain Hope and Captain Whish, another pioneer,
successfully grew and crushed the cane, boiled the
juice, and produced and sold sugar. The small be-
BORE, WESTERN QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
BUND A LEER BORE, MARANOA DISTRICT, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
ginnings ripened to larger enterprises, and cane
was cultivated in wider areas, and flourished
exceedingly. It even threatened to oust maize
at one time. It spread northward, until Captain
Towns—one of our history-makers —planted it
near Ross Creek, and began the foundation of
Townsville, which— to-day a rich and flourishing
city—was called after its founder.
With Captain Towns came the introduction to
the Queensland canefields of the islanders of the
South Sea groups ; and the creation or a problem
now happily solved. In the subsequent solution
of that problem—whatever view may be taken of
— t^jB p a p er (The Bulletin) had a considerable
j n g nencej f o r, as the only newspaper of Aus-
tralian-wide circulation, it was able to focus public
opinion from the whole continent upon an event
of vital national importance transpiring in one
MOSSMAN SUGAR MILL, PORT DOUGLAS, QUEENSLAND.
NORTH ISIS SUGAR MILL, QUEENSLAND.
colony. Public opinion in the colony which had
the settlement of the matter was profoundly in-
fluenced ; and when the Commonwealth sprang
into existence, all parties appeared unanimous as
to the right course to pursue. The credit for this,
as for many other historical changes, must be
given to The Bulletin, which brought to bear
in an effective way the influence of the most
potent journalistic force which Australia has yet
known.
INTERIOR BINGERA SUGAR MILL, N. C. LINE. QUEENSLAND.
But there were inherent evils in the island
labor traffic itself which produced crimes of which
the nation was ashamed, which had degrading
effects upon the traders, and upon all concerned
in the trade in savage labor. All this is long a
thing of the past. It may some day furnish a
splendid theme for that great Australian novelist
whose coming I have so often predicted one
who will handle themes of primitive strife, pioneer-
ing struggles, and crimes of the half-world between
civilisation and savagery, or crimes inseparable
from the first meeting of the settler and the
savage, rather than write of the vapid problems
of fashionable society, or invent tame melo-
dramatic situations which, to the realities of early
Australian adventure, would be as the grey
dusk of a European winter’s day to the flam-
ing radiance of a Queensland sunrise, seen
from a mainland mountain spuf, over the
palm-fringed atolls of the Great Barrier Reef.
The Kanakas (save a few) are gone, leaving the
short epic history of their incursion to Australia
to be ivritten, and carrying in their deportation
strange tales of the wonders of our civilisation to
their savage cognates in the great Pacific region
of reef and palm, and trophies and exhibits in the
shape of superfluous boots and trousers, razors,
toothbrushes, and a taste for fiery liquors dis-
tilled from the by-products of sugar (all soon dis-
carded save the last-named). But the industry
survives them, and stands as a monument of the
clear-sighted determination of the. people of
Queensland, backed by the Australian nation, to
develop their rich and favored country by the nur-
turing of a sturdy working white Democracy, and
not by a cheap and lazy aristocracy of do-nothing
planters, a colored proletariat, a few “ mean
whites,” and that racial crime—the half-caste —
as was the case in the Southern States of the
American Union. Queenslanders look to the
future with hopeful and fearless eyes, and offer the
hand of welcome to the democratic elements
which, in Europe, are now yearning for better
opportunities, under brighter skies, and with
freer conditions. The sugar industry of Queens-
land alone affords ample scope for the placing of
thousands of prosperous immigrants upon the soil,
and in a fair way to fortune.
The districts in which sugar is grown in Queens-
land and to which the immigrant will naturally
turn’his attention are • '
1. Rockingham and York Peninsula —
(a) Cairns and Douglas.
(b) Ingham and Mourilyan.
2 Edgcumbe— .
(e) Ayr.
( b ) Bowen.
(c) Mackay.
3. Port Curtis
(a) Gladstone,
4. Wideßay n .
(a) Bundaberg and Gin (jin.
(b) Childers, Maryborough anc lar
(c) Gympie.
o. Moreton (near Brisbane)
(a) Logan.
( b ) Marburg and Rosewood.
(c) Maroocny.
\d) Neraug.
Taking the year 1907, the product of the sugai
industry of Queensland was 188.307 tons of manu-
factured sugar, 7,272,905 gallons of manufactured
molasses from 52 sugar nulls (not counting juice
mills), and 223,573 proof gallons of distilled
spirits, of which 115,491 proof gallons was methy-
lated spirits. The season which shows these
figures also gave proof of the continuous de-
velopment of the industry, because it was a record
year in two essential features, viz.: —
1. The aggregate of the product, and
2. The high saccharine contents of the cane cut.
In these it surpassed all previous years.
This satisfactory record is undoubtedly the con-
crete result of the Government policy of continual
experimenting with (u) varieties of cane, (6) soil,
and (c) manures. It was in this regard that the
services of Mr, Maxwell became so invaluable to
the State and the industry. Samples of canes
grown by farmers are sent to the State labora-
tories, crushed, and the juice analysed. In the
Central Sugar Experiment Station, at Mackay,
the work carried on is of the greatest interest and
importance to the whole Commonwealth, though
few Australians realise the nature and value of it.
Cane from different countries is planted and
watched to maturity ; analyses are made of its
constituents; its hardiness, enduranceand freedom
•from disease are observed and carefully noted. The
effect of fertilisers of various kinds, of irrigation
with and without fertilisers, is watched. Cane
farmers and millowners look for the results of all
this work at the station, for it is a guide to them
which, when applied to their own local circum-
stances, enables them to secure the best results.
The circumstance may again be remarked and
emphasised that the State system in Queensland
tends to develop a race of highly intelligent,
technically educated farmers, who work in mutual
co-operation through the radial centre of the ex-
perimental station. The element of guess-work
has been eliminated from the farmers’avocation
by his knowledge of the qualities of the soil he
cultivates, acquired by analysis ; he no longer
sits impotently Cursing unfavorable seasons ; he
looks to scientific means to repair the occasional
niggardliness of Nature ; he has ceased to trust to
the prodigal liberality of good seasons, and to take
no care of the future. If drought should smite
him—a rare contingency in the coastal districts of
the Northern State —he has artesian water in many
cases; and so his labors prosper. Before he
plants his crop he knows the constituents of his
soil and the variety of sugar-cane most suitable
for planting. His choice of cane is world-wide,
and he has the plants of the world to choose from.
According as his soil warrants it, he may plant
New Guinea, Singapore, Demerara. Batoe. Rappoe,
Mavoe or Badilla. The experimental station
obtains the seedlings from the countries abroad,
plants them, brings them to the first ratoon and
second ratoon crops, and progressive analyses are
made showing the density of the juice, the amount
of sucrose and glucose in the juice, the purity and
the acidity of the juice ; and even the percentage
of fibre in the cane and the amount of sucrose in
the cane are estimated. Then the plants are
distributed to the farmers as required.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and iLONDON.
♦ Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklkournk Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adklaidk & Frf.mantlk Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUS TRALIA E N GLAN D.
ORSOVA .. Twin-Screw .. 12,036 Tons.
OTWAY .. ~ „ .. 12,077 ~
OSTERLEY ~ „ .. 12,129 ~
ORVIETO .. „ ~ .. 12,000 ~
OTRANTO.. „ „ .. 12,124 „
ORONTES.. „ „ .. 9,023 „
OMRAH .. ~ ~ .. 8,282 ~
OPHIIt .. 6,814 ~
ORMUZ .. .. .. 6,465 „
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE,"ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, 11.0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Borth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000 -
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 72,500 0 0
£731.601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. .
Gen. Mngr. :Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.:E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout th > World.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - <£500,000.
Fire Insurances effected Oil all classes of
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, etc. Rents atso assured.
Marine Risks .. ?? Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0 t*
Reserve Fund 1,300,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 0
£4,31)0,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Borns, M.L.C.
Auditors : W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: G-eorg-e Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soctar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. 11l Cohen, Esq.
Manage® F. A. Scrivener.
Branches 1 throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Shipping:.
Nord Detitsclier IL/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
, 0 Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the'Agents,
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA
LOHMANN & CO.,
Tel. 695. 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of ||aui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £7lO 998
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair
man (Gibbs, Hright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq.
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
f Taking passengers for the Melbourne Cup.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ~ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hiirhest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on dav of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 27 (taking passengers for
the Melbourne Cup).
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 24.
MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES —Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c, from 24 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. 17 6
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dahjelfi and Coinjtant/; Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f NOLI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about S
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Rend address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., lO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest cn deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being-:
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO. ( d ) Loan instalments (Interest and principal)
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during: are payable half-yearly.
currency of loan. (e) Borrower has the rig-ht to repay the loan
(«) Money may be lent for any term up to on any instalment date; interest to that
31 years. date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may iend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
A situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
3}
‘ _r
igss
PRIZES Value £1750
8-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30, 1909.
Ist Prize, value £5OO ; 2nd Prize, value £lOO ;
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. A. Moorkhouse, Henderson
Road, Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE; SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November i.
To any person forwardin';- stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickers may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from ALLAN McDOIJGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
Banking:, &c.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coilins>Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (investedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35,000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES JJOHROVV.\iAN, Manager.
FHEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
a
NORTON
[ Cartridges.
I British made*
| .22 Long
|| and
Mz. Short
G. & G
Your
range Re- a
cords will be t
improved by us- '
ing these Cartridges!
The best Rifle Shots
all use them. Sold by
Ammunition Dealers.
Agents :
THE COLONIAL
AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA
ON THE HOP ” —Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S. W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
MS® I
Ml
(fit TO
George hotel,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Ivoombana (from Fre-
mantle), November 2,
calling’ at all N.-VVest
Ports to YVyndham.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
S.S. Marloo, October 6.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Allinga, October 9.
S.S. Grantala, October 16.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU.
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing' the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.=-H. —5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.”
11,400 Tons. T, Davies, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 19th Oot.
„ „ „ SYDNEY - - 26th Oct.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 2nd Nov.
i, ~ ~ ADELAIDE - - 9th Nov.
The saloon accommodation consists of ail two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL [ £49 40s. £43 13s. £45 15s. £4? 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “ESSEX.” For further information, illustrated
books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Ilbbart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
. \\\
gjl
i
DWm
MORRIS'S |
iree Witches
PforlOf^
London Wad*
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
RUPTURE
Do yoa suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. Then send for particulars
oj our perfectfitting
Automatic air cushion appliance
the Best Rupture Appliance of the Century-
Tw > Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Frei
WiNSLOW CO.. 2dl Collins SL,Melbourne.Vic


“McP.,” from the Gallery
The“°'a«'” session has revealed the fighting strength
of the Federal parties. Joe Cook, on the Ministerial side,
has to bear the brunt of the battle. Forrest occasionally
tries a hand, fcut he is not quick-witted enough. Deakinis
polished sentences fail to leave a sting. Hume Cook has
been one of the bitterest of the Fusees, probably because
his seat is almo’st certain to be captured by Anstey.
Groom and Quick are too ponderous for in-fighting. lne
guerilla par excellence is Hughes, in spite of his deafness.
With his rasping voice and pointing finger he never fails
to rouse his opponents to fury—or to move “ that the
question be now put.” Fisher is a striking contrast to
his lieutenant. He is a sad man in such debates.
Fraser of Kalgoorlie, as an aider and abettor of Hughes,
has been a troublesome thorn in the Ministry’s side.
Batchelor and Matthews are handy men in an occa-
sional bit of sharp-shooting. Bill Lyne cannot get his
heavy artillery into action quickly enough, and contents
himself with belated shots. Still he gave Mauger a
Withering rebuke when the latter accused him of making
use of a filthy expression in the House. After Lyne and
others had asserted that the word was not used, Lyne
made a few remarks about the sort of mind that Mauger
must own, and in view of Samuel’s reputation for good-
ness those few remarks must have been wormwood and
gall.
The gospel according to “ Fossick ” :
When the Westralian gold discovery sprang upon the
world it was said that John Boyle O’lieilly, the escaped
political convict, had foretold it many years before in his
novel of “Moondyne.” I have just read the book. I
don’t know whether O’Reilly invented the expression re
Westralia being Cinderella. Probably not. “She has no
gold,” says he. Yet he finds whispers of strange import
about a great golden secret. It settled with dazzling
conviction on the criminals. It was certain that the abo-
riginals found small quantities of gold ; but then particles
were discovered quite close to Melbourne. O’Reilly
a proclamation by Governor Hampton in 1848; "‘Five
Thousand Pounds Reward ! The above will be paid for the
discovery of the mine from which the natives of theVasse
obtain their gold. A free pardon to the discoverer should
he be of the road class. No reward will be given or terms
made with absconders.” Moondyne is an escapee and
is re-captured. He professes that he will lead the
way to the gold mine of the Vasse. One would
imagine Rider Haggard had read this book. The
novel takes a confused turn, with powerful spurts.
What Moondyne ought to do is to find the mine by him-
self, and become a Monte Christo. The story makes you
think a great deal of Marcus Clarke’s “ His Natural Life,
especially the vivid account of a voyage in a convict ship.
The London publication of “His Natural Life ” was in
1875. “ Moondyne ” was published in Boston (U.S.) in
1880. O’Reilly began life as a compositor. Next he was
a reporter, also a Fenian. He enlisted, when only 19
years old, in the 10th Hussars to foment sedition. This
regiment, “The Prince of Wales’s Own,” was considered
the only “ loyal ” one in Dublin. O’Reilly riddled it with
dissatisfaction, but was lumbered, tried by court-martial,
and sentenced to be shot. The sentence was commuted
to penal servitude for life. With Father M‘Cabe’B help
he escaped from Westralia in the American whaler
Gazelle. He was transferred at sea to the Sapphire,
which took him to London and America. He became an
excellent journalist and poet, and was concerned in
O’Neill's descent on Canada in 1870. At a cost of L5OOO
he organised the expedition in the ship Catalpa, which
rescued his military comrades from Westralia in 1876.
tv
hlkh
w
V
*
*
NJ
; V 'V
IbM
<?r
g^M
m
•/. •
II
:.-i
Pp.;
iS
II
Si
.
sip
WSffiSW
Mil
Sjf-f
. -- I ■'
If you are
thirsty
try a
glass
of
©
!**
4.
©
<*>
©
©
£
LIME
JUICE.
“ MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
made in two kinds-
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Ju.ce.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of 'Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand SBTT AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. VV. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas o' Fairfax, Esc. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
“BROOKS—BEST”—what more need be said—the
statement is concise, definite, and entirely justified by
the record of the
BROOKS SADDLES
Remember that when you purchase your next new Bicycle,
and should a substitute be offered, gently but firmly decline
it—in short “SHY BROOKS” and insist on its supply—
Stocked by all Hgents— Hrt Manual free from
J. B. BROOKS 8i CO. LIMITED,
THE SADDLE SPECIALISTS, BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
t. «.,If.
JSjSgJt- *'» v- v v V.‘> Tj »
i- ■%■ v *• v i ■
sw
MW
m
lySufor;
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. 6d. Packet of TEN. 5d
The only point of resemblance between
the modern liner and the old sailing ship is that
the liner still retains the mast to telegraph with
and as a thing to hang lamps and signals on. ihe
man-o’-war holds it up for the same purpose, but
makes one additional use of it—as a perch for the
fire-control men whose work it is to telephone the
ranges down to the big guns on deck. ±Jut it
begins to look as if the mast is on its last splinters.
The only reason why it is being fitted to the new
White Star boats is because it is required tor the
wireless installation. The giant ships .could
easily signal from their bridges ; but “ wireless
will only work effectively at a high elevation, oo
the big boats will go to sea with poles, and bear a
remote resemblance to their grandfather, the tull-
ship. The latest Yankee battleships, with
their twin Eiffel towers, have broken away alto-
gether from the old style of vessel; in them the
last trace of the family likeness ceases. 1 hey
represent the very latest in naval architecture-
which seems to believe in top-hamper, and in
piling deck on deck, as if a ship were a stationary
edifice with firmly-rooted foundations. It is a
strange system, which upsets all the old calcula*
tions and threatens to upset a few ships.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. Its the finest shillings
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
“ DAD S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Btrand Arcade, Pitt Bt., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.] [6
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Messrs .Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prcnarcd b ’ I. W. NICMOLL. Ph-'-”aceiitical Cheir.ist
25. HIGH STREET. BELFAST, IRELAND.
When Mosquitoes annoy you <
i remember how useful, either for pre- \
i venting the attack of these and other j
> insects, or antiseptically cleansing their (
I bites, so many people have found <
Calvert’s
| 20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
£ bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
) against infectious diseases.
> Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
)Made by F C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng
TALKS
ON RUPTURE* I
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pikrce.
Something' every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day.
Address — PIERCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(vVhen writing mention this paper)
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk food®,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant;
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TQ
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
A
a
&
V
Food.
In the preparation of Benger s Food the natural digestive
are combined m proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain hie. It assists natuie
in cases of weakened |digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. . Benger s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


flr.
A PERFECT RAZOR !
As practical hairdressers, honestly we can say
there is NO razor on the market so good as
The PLUM at 10/6, post free anywhere.
It possesses the PERFECT shaving edge-a blade you
C /i n w e 4 v« P °w to . give » cle an easy, satisfactory shave
LWAYS. We keep the PLUM in order two years
free of charge.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
Soda Fountains
FITTED WITH CONSOL AERATORS
Automatically make crisp, snappy Soda Water INSIDE THE FOUNTAIN.
Phenomenal success of applied science. Liquid gas pressure does nil the *
pressure not required. SIMPLE AND INEXPENSIVE. Repeat orders from Anlhony
Hordern & Sons, Sydney, and others. y
rite for NELSON CARBONATING CO„ 167 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ITS ALL IN THE
CORDS” !
The foundation of most Motor Tyres is canvas. Not only
is the material supersensitive to climatic changes—
it is the WRONG material in the WRONG place.
n
PALMER CORD TYRES
m V DnV ol r, foundi . tion of rubber-impregnated CORDS—
vUKDo which remain taut under all conditions.
It is the RIGHT material in the RIGHT place. May
we send you explanatory Booklet and Price List? Posted
free anywhere. The stamp it costs for the enquiry will
prove a good investment.
26,609
miles at a
cost of less
than id. per
mile. Par-
ticulars of
this Record
with Palmer
Cord Tyres
on applica-
tion.
The Silvertown Rubber Company,
279 George Street, Sydney.
There’s One Real
Cure for Rupture.
a„d™”S/tu f ?e",r; e V OUr ' ith! ‘' '“* brOUSi,t health “” d *l*— »
*■><
The Dr. J. A. Sherman Treatment
which gives relief instantly and then settles down to effect a permanent cure Tt is ),., tt(ar i „
scientific principles, and Dr. Sherman has convinced many of the world’s leading medic d
men that his treatment is a practical remedy for the supposed incurable ailment. 8
It has lifted men and women from the depths of despair, thrown back the cloud*
depression, and made life really worth living for hundreds of sufferers. Here’s what one says
7 45 Dover Street, St. Albans,
Dear Sir, Christchurch, N.Z.
s ’°“ '*" I” 11 * cu " d «' ™P‘-™ by your "easy
Yours truly,
QEOROE FENNER.
sultaS y frTof S clSrgt StimonialS ““ Sh ° Wn y ° U ’ a ° d we will 'gkdly give you a con-
-10 l o venin g ?7lT* 15 2 4 ° 5 *“*
and tetmioniak Cal1 ’ Writ 6 f ° r tW ° free b °° kS ’ which contain details - medical opinions
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller in Australasia of
the Dr. J. A. Sherman Method,
Gibbs’ Chambers, 7 Moore Street, near the G.P.0., Sydney.
LEARN TO SWIM
WJngs
2/2,
POST FREE,
Y°w A TED *° attach AYVAD’S
WATER WINGS to your body, and you
« rr, !) „ C !/f 1 9c:A? l , Under ' Water Wings will support
a man of 250 lbs as easily as a child of 50 lbs., and
„Sv°? ]ust the level at which a person can swim
comfortably. The Wings are made porous
for the reason that it takes less air to support a
large body than it does a smaller one, and they
allow just enough air to escape to adjust them-
selves properly to the size of the body. Tot
instance, a large b dy, requiring less air to float
than a smaller one, forces more air from the Wings
than the latter, and is supported on the same level,
the weight of your body governs the amount of air
that stays in the Water Wings—in every case just
thq necessary amount of air remains.
If you cannot swim, you will learn in one trial if
you get a pair of AYVAD’S WATER WINGS
If you are a swimmer, you will enjoy greater
sport than ever in the water if you use the Wings
Bear in mind, Water Wings are NOT dangerous.'
Gan be brought instantly into use. They weio-h
only 3 oz., and take up no more room than a pocket
handkerchief. The price is only 2/2, postage paid
auywhere. If you order three pairs, we will give
?ou free a set of six very comical colouied Penny
ost Cards, entitled ** A Day’s Outing at
Manly or the Post Cards and one pair of Winns
for 2/6, post free, "i 6
A. J. SMITH & CO.
NEW address:
338-340 Kant St., Sydnay.
even
S-cs
THE PATENT
IDEAL HAIR-DYEING COMB
Restores Faded Hair, Instantly Colors
Grey Hair, Darkens Auburn Hair.
GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY HARMLESS
THE Patent Heal Hair-Dyeing Comb carries a supply of the
chariSd an/th 1Ud 1 ’ ' V ‘ th / hioh 14.l 4 . caa be «ou«taiitly re-
an<i thns h J merely combing the hair every grey
hair disappears until the whole of the tresses are eventv
colored to any desired sIDuK The seal,, and the hands ar “«
CWoring W feid h r 1 H t air - Drei^- is used ’ The bottle of
oiormg: i<Luia that accompanies the Comb is truarant^Pd
absolutely harmless and perfectly free “romT.ngerous
mineral ingredients. It differs entirely from ordiuaryTyes
I°' J ’mproves the texture of the hair, making it
r Soft and glossy. The hair may be thoroughly
"t any time without affecting the imnarted color
combing*!* Tn U +h ® re / <,red to its ori K‘nal color l.y simply
darkened to ™ th . ordinary way, and auburn hair can be
aarkened to any s ade of brown. To avoid attracting notice
est r?sk F ve - gradually changed without the slight-’
from del,i, ,i teC 10 ?' We hare received scores of letters
- * ted r llre hasers of the Ideal Hair-Dyeiug Comb
d 2 not publish anything of that kind. Pull
prm ed directions for use and a Bottle of the Coloring Fluid
Complete y OutflfT b ’ La a n " at box - Tbe Priced the
Outfit is only 7s. 6d., including carriage to anv
tion/l Vnt*i d se « u rely packed free from observation. Addh
*‘°“ al b °ttles.of the Coloring Fluid may lie had at anv lime
for 2s. 6d. carriage paid. Postal Notes of any State acoepte”
THE UNION COMPANY,
299 ELIZABETH STEEET
MELBOURNE.
THE
WORLD'S RECORD BREAK
836
ON AN
i
A
3Z7S
Qeore^*G!?a < t o, in d hi« Performance of thc boy marvel,
ueorge Gray, in his match with Fred Lindrum, Jun. (Champion of Australia!
played on an “Alcock ’ Table at Alcock’s Billiard Rooms Australia),
■ ° n Wednesday, the 25th August, Gray, who had already made some
d ’ 8 rocor d by scoring 836-831
By Store "son »opor,edco the world's record of 802
"T'oSn’nK"re%^, p c c . aks for ri.7:; a .2Ks;,s?2;
tive« B e£+u*L t Jt’ C ”I atch „* , ?- e table was measured and tested by representa-
in a he Amat .®ar Billiard Association of Victoria, and found to be correct
ahrt^ C «i rda d l,C t, W,th the ru,es ofr the Billiard Association of Great Britain
and Ireland- We append herewith copy of certificate:
amateur billiard association op victoria
(Affiliated with the Billiard Association of Great Britain and Ireland).
STANDARD TABLE CERTIFICATE.
„.,J his j B i2o Ce u rtif - v at t,le Standard Table, made by Messrs. Alcoek & Co., Ptv. Ltd and
Riinit!!'! 46 ? 3 ;. ha , 8, i h1s I , oth <ia - v of May, 1909, been duly measured and tested with the British
Billiard Association’s Test plates, and!found to be correct. «ncisn
This certificate expires on the 9th day of May. 1910
To Messrs. Alcock & Co., Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
fSi<>-nedl MEAKIN, President.
° J. B. BARLOW, Lion. Secretary.
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED to VISIT our SHOWROOMS and See the
TABLES that Leading- Billiard Players Pronounce the BEST in the WORLD
ASK FOR CATALOGUE.
397 George Street,
SYDNEY.
155 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
Complete Cinematograph Outfits
©
ffl
m
o
Q)
©
Q>
Cinematography is the surest money-making
line out for a smart showman.
We are experts in it, and supply the whole outfit
for a moderate cost.
We stock, let out on hire and repair machines,
parts and films of any description.
We Specialise in Films.
Our stock is the largest in Australia. Each noil
brings us fresh ones from London, including the
famous PATHE at 4d. per foot.
OVER HALF A MILLION
FEET OF FILMS
to choose from. Splendid subjects, fresh and new.
Write or call and see us. Our prices are moderate.
SEND FOR OUR NEW LIST OF SPECIALLY-PRICED
FILMS.
JERDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
SUCCESSFUL CAPILLARINE.
The record of CAPILLARINE’S success in producing- permanent
moustaches is unbroken. It has NEVER failed for 25 years-it
will not fail in YOUR case.
Price 10 6, Post Free Anywhere
Craig- & Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
*
A


Hi
in
M
B
m
m
m
i
I
/
57?
:ia
rsT
w
jW
k \
m
? r,
The Kodak cannot Jig!
and Dr. Cook will be sore to show
some fine results of his trip, for he was
equipped with an Eastman Kodak.
The KODAK
is the Camera
for travellers!
For tourist and all-round work there's no Camera
so good as the No. 3A FOLDING POCKET KODAK,
which takes beautiful pictures 3%in. x s)4in. —the popular
post-card size.
It is fitted with a rapid rectilinear leais, the F.P.K.
automatic Shutter, two tripod sockets, a brilliant re-
versible finder, with hood and an automatic focussing
lock.
The total weight is only 410 z., yet it embraces all the
practical features of cameras several times its bulk.
For simplicity of construction, ease in use, and
certainty in results you couldn't choose anything as
good as a Kodak, and this No. 3A only costs £4/10/-
Postage 1/2; Inter-State, 2/2.
Reipember, there's no dark room required with
the Kodak. It can be loaded or unloaded in daylight,
and by using the Kodak Tank the developing can be
done in daylight, too.
Come in and let us show what the Kodak can
do, or write for the Kodak catalogue —it’s free !
BaKer ®, Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
Sole Agents for Australian KodaK Ltd.,
379 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
No. GSDI9
Best Quality Silverplated Flower
Stand. £3.
d
a.
No. G 8555— liesi. Quality Silverplated Chased Cake
Gasket, Sp oial Value, £l/10/-
No. J292—Best Quality Silyerpjate.
Our own special design, at the
Manufacturers’ Price, £2/2/•
(AUSTRALIA). Ltd
THE true value which we buy, the economic conditions under which we work, the
amplitude of our resources, and our determination to give customers the benefit of
every advantage our system places at our command, enables us to guarantee the
quality and value of every article. We do not deal in sham goods, or artificialities of any
description. Even our lowest-priced goods are of sound and genuine quality —just what
they are represented to be in material, make and finish.
We have three Illustrated Catalogues —one dealing solely with Watches, one specially
for all designs of Rings, and the pther is our large general 112 page. Either, or all of
them, can be had free on application, or will be sent to any address.
No. 04067 Quality Silverplated
Cake Fork, 2/- each.
No. 358A—Best' Quality
Silverplated, Chased,
Sugar Basket, £l/7/6.
«tr
iSr~*
-
No. G3sso—Best Quality Silverplated Chased Sugar, Cream and Cake
or Fruit Stand, £6/10/-
No. E2234—Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 3/6 ; Silverplated, 1/-
Nn. F5B3 —Best Quality Silver-
plated Engraved Snear Scuttle
■and Scoop, £l/2/6,
No. 388—Silverplated Jam Spoon, 3/
Butter Knife to match, 3/•
No. B499o—Best Quality Silverplated Revolving
Vegetable Dish. Each Dish can be,removed
and used separately, £6/67-
No. Gl5O1 —Pearl Handle Solid Silver
Tea Strainer, 10/6.
No. Ff.s27—The “ Kinjr James ” Afternoon Tea
Service, with Tray, Silvurplated on
Nickel Silver, £5.
No. F6l4o— Silverplated- Butter Knife, 3/-
No HBs2—Best. Qualitv Silverplated Flower
Stand, £2/15/-
No. G 6714 —Silverplate on Nickel Silver
Vegetable Dish, Two Divisions, £l/17/6.
No. J3l4—Best Quality Silverplated
Hot Water Kettle, with Spirit
Lump, £2/15/•


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarßet, Sydney, N.S.W.
LEADING
HOUSE for
►Sporting' Goods
Fishing Tacßle Tobaccos.,
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
trom our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
WINCHESTER
Just landed 1906 Model Rifle, Improved; handles *22 short,
long or long Rifle Cartridges, mixed or separately,
POSTAGE —2/3, N.S.W. ; 4/2, Inter-Statc-EXTRA.
42/6
Send for Illustrated Sports and
Fishing Catalogues FREE.
CANT
B
BEAT
MICK SIMMONS,
Haymarket, Sydney, and
Hunter Street. Newcastle .
Branches: Church Street, Parramatta; 197 Oxford Street, Sydney;
113 King Street, Newtown; 273 Darling Street, Balmain.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1008 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. HowtoGet Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Od. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Doxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
I' landers, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bull’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 8s Od posted. Riddle of the
Universe, ( Bd, and all tiie Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is Od.
Joys of Life, Is Od. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuook, Is tid. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lspdsted. MyNeigiiiior Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post. Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver's Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Od. How to
Make Lov», Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Od. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s od. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Bo6k‘ of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Od. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is Od.
God and My Neigiiiior, lid. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Tiie Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/8.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Od. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, IsOd.’
I
■
NOAIE CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that oeeur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
i GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
iMv CO M red dl t n „lf h i s s reat work - 11 "ill be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads or Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. Book ok
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Puisne
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly. Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Totted the Score <fc
Other Versbs, 3s fid. Lung Comtlaints„ls fid. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Sutbiib Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hettameron, and many
others, all at 2s fid each posted. Bride of the First
A ight, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established S 5 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR.
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
It EMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine
is. Old Bush Songs, Ms 3d uost. Or. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s (id.
Aristotle, 3s (id. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court oe England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Booh oe Dreams, Is
posted. All Auout Incuhators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances
2S. INGHRSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassn’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handiiook
Is _d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universa
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, clotl
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com
plete), Is 6d posted. Tiie Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY
The Famous
Remedy for
BRONCHIT
CURE.
® ronc hitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
of Bta". Semite *}*?«*■ fr »» Bronchitis, Cou ? „, Croup
tton to develop Consumption ,s not known where“ Coucd*? ImvToif the°ir g fi T Asthma to l be “ s Tronic, no? Consump-’
Sh ° Uld be W “ h °- *-■ -ken at t* beg.nn^Y& SS,“
Chemist, Forwarded to when ® *"* ** Prof > rict °'< W - G- HEARNE,
y Aaa ress, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion”
tlie only machine on the
market coverecl bv a
written guarantee for
fiv't vrifs.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Hway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Ph a onosr^ en U V he i senc y in Australia for the “Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to mish them and briim
them under public notice, regardless of exnense, in a legitimate
530 flke'mlchines. 13 MAKK A START ?y-giving“away
We will seiid one of these Phonographs FREE of anv rharwe
whatever to every applicant answering thisadvertifement who win
■«l". *nd ply „ r „’S;„SSS,S™"! “h';tfhi."i7ih dePO | il
machines to make application at once, and"ndose a .Imped addrSeo'l'S.ioo 0 ' 1 ' °.l l f'“
may advise when the case coutaiiiing PhonograDh will be sent as the el °P/p. so that we
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING C 0„ o pp . e.p.0., s.dnav. ji.s.w.
Ufye BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d.
PACKET CF TEN, stl.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
PostFroe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Bodies and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G, P. 0,, SYDNEY V
ASTHMA C URE
GRiMAULT'S INDIAN CIEARETTFS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedintelv
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAIR
ETTKS. Snid bit all Chrrr.iais. GiUAlt*


You woke this morning feeling unrefreshed from your night’s
sleep, and after a hurried breakfast (which you did not enjoy in
the least) left for work, feeling utterly miserable and out ot sorts.
As the day advanced matters did not improve. Everything seemed
to go wrong. It was impossible for you to concentrate your mind
A
N
on your work, owing to the insufferable pain
in your chest, accompanied possibly by heart-
burn and flatulence and other symptoms of the
disorder of which you are a victim.
YOU ARE SUFFERING FROM INMGESTION.
Your best plan—your only plan—
is to at once -procure a tin of
Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules,
and take them according to direc-
tions. They will at once relieve,
and in a very short time cure you
of this distressing complaint.
They digest what you eat and
allow your stomach to rest and
recuperate, and your sufferings
will soon become a thing of the
past. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules are obtainable every-
where at 2/6 per tin ofBo tabules.
THE RELIABLE
I
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100..
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/G per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/0 per 100. Suitable for pipe smokers.
No. 17, Virginian, 0/0 per 100,
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLAVORED.
HAVE SECURED THIS
MARKET BY ACTUAL
MERIT.
CIGARETTES
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth from leading Tobacconists, or write the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
who will acquaint vou of the nearest supplier, or post to you direct till an agent is appointed,
1 ‘ Postage—A'ld 6d, per 100 to your remittance.
CHEAP EDITION of ON THE NOP!
PxucE Postage —N.S.W., 7cl. ; other States, 1/2.
' THE BULLETIN Office, 214 Geokge Street, Sydney,
ft
OUT
LOOK
FOR
DANCERS
NOW is the time to be on the “ look-out” for the dangers of Spring-
dangers from within as well as from without. A besieged fortress
after a long siege is not only more watchful of danger from attack
by an enemy without, but also of danger from weakness within. The
human system, after the long siege of Autumn and Winter, is weakened
through over-work—over-work of all the digestive organs which have had
to cope with the extra food consumed (a necessity during the cold months),
and over-work caused by resisting the attacks of colds and chills. The
weakened system is less able to withstand the renewed attacks of the severe
changes of temperature, so treacherous at this season of the year, and must
be toned=up. There is no tonic like Bile Beans, because they are purely
vegetable, and assist the over-worked organs to cope with the demands of
Nature and gradually restore them to their normal condition, so that they are
again able—unaided—to perform their natural functions. With the system so
toned-up you can withstand the many dangers that lurk in the Spring-time.
Mrs. E. E. Johns, of Victoria Street,
Lewisham, Sydney, says : —■“ Bile Beans are
an ideal Spring medicine, and a box of them
should be in every home. I have used Bile
Beans for myself and family for years, and
can highly recommend them. A friend of
mine, residing in Victoria, first sent me a box
of the Beans some years ago, and now I
would not be without them in the house. I
have a large family, and at Spring time and
other changes of season, give them Bile
Beans, which ensure their good health.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
Bile Beans are the proved remedy for biliousness, headache, indigestion, stomaeh troubles,
constipation, piles, debility, female weaknesses, nervousness, bad blood, bad breath, anaemia, dis-
turbed sleep, loss of appetite, Spring ailments, and, in fact, all ailments that owe their origin to
defective liver action. Obtainable everywhere at Is. lid., or 2s. 9d. large box (containing three times
the Is. lid. size); or post free from The Bjle Bean Mfg. Company, 39 Pitt Street, Bydney.
o
N
E
B
E
A
N
VOJ
SUDd
m
• I
0
N
E
eh co o O
The City Beyond.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is a City Wonderful, full of places
magical,
Over there across the hills in the land un-
known.
Men have ever dreamed of it, never have they
entered it; , v
Only shall they come to it when of caste outgrown.
Only shall they dwell in it when they slough the
vanities.
All the good of all the eartli shall be free to all.
Slain the foes to harmony, dead the foes of equity,
Knowledge, clad in gentleness, guards the city’s
wall.
In the City Wonderful all men dwell in palaces.
Set about with minarets gleaming in the sun ;
Streets and streets of palaces domed with gold
and lazuli,
Like arcades of fairyland glow they every one.
White stones of the terraces hold the beds of
daffodils ;
Green sward underneath the feec, where the asters
grow ;
Paths of flowers the roadways are, sprinkled in
; the emerald ;
In the' lawns and garden plots many fountains
flow.
wfldere are groves of oranges, apricots and cinna-
mons ;
Roses, lilacs, tamarisks ; apple tree and lime,
lieavy old magnolias, laburnums and azaleas ;
Ranks of the hibiscus, and the tender-scented
thyme.
And within the palaces are splendid halls and
corridors,
Idling with purple velvets and with cloths of
green and gold ;
Floors of fine mosaic-work, tesselated balconies,
Ceilings carved in bas-relief, and paintings rich
and old.
High to grand entablatures, graven deep with
images,
Leading to the qiladragons, stretch the pillared
aisles ;
Jiisper-stone and nunnnulite based on polished
pedestals ;
Glory of the arcs and crafts, all the city smiles.
Here bring in the harvesters all the rich earth's
plenitude—
Wealth of mine and factory, oil and wheat and
gold }
Jron and atone and tapestry, triumphs in
machinery 5
AH the things plutooraoies starved them of of old
for long the ghosts of poverty are laid with old
fatuities ;
ffhere arc no rich or lowly, nor idle nor oppressed.
All they that falter mentally, the sick, the Old,
the sufferers.
Are given peace and quietude in spacious halls of
v rest.
For jn the City Wonderful all people have their
■ heritage;
Its. laws are laws of gentleness that none may
disobey.
And he that breaks the harmony, though judged
with judgment merciful, %
Is led into the city hall to bide his saner day.
Of old the rich derided it; the wise thought it
impossible , * ;•
That man, despite his blunderings, its golden
spires should see—
But hear ye out across the hills a whisper in
: futurity—
“ Behold the City Wonderful, that verily shall
be ! ”
Victoria.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Dupe of the Tumbling Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lAM not sure tint a man cannot be
happier with an artistic bad woman than a
stodgy good one. Certain it is that the
happiest time in iny life was while I was being
fooled by Ida Lee.
I met her one afternoon in Don Watson’s studio,
where I found her reading a magazine while Don
complacently painted. His model was seated on
a throne covered with a soft, pink rug. Don
.never had any objection to his friends and visitors
.seeing his models. I have heard that occasionally
the models objected violently, and amazed Don
.considerably.
“Sit down and talk to Miss Lee till I get
ithrough with my central figure,” said Don, jerk-
ing his head towards the lovely girl, who wore a
heliotrope silk dress and a burnt straw hat
itrimmed with purple and white poppies. He in-
troduced us without rising, and the lady bowed
languidly. I felt glad I hadn’t to pay the lady’s
■dressing bills.
“You’re the owner of the Aerolite motor-boat,:
are you not?”
“Only halbowner; I have a partner, Mr.
Franklin.”
“And I suppose it is Mr. Franklin who takes
chorus ladies round Middle Harbor on Sunday
llights,” she said with a malicious smile.
‘‘Of course—*do I look like a man who would
take chorus girls round Middle Harbor? Besides,
from what I have seen, chorus girls are quite
decorous. It’s .the stars tli.it are rackety.”
“Shoo!” said M.ss Lee. “Anyhow, I have
noticed that it is always the man who is away
that does the shucking things.”
I shivered. She had evidently, heard some
details of the orgies that Franklin indulged in
When he went frisking oii tile rolling waves.
“ It’s a pity,” she went on ; “ for if ever there
was a boat I loved from the first glance it was the
bltfe and white Aerolite, It is so fast, so beautiful
in appearance, and the way you keep it does you
both infinite credit.”
“lam glad to hear that we have some good
points!” I replied, ruefully. “If you like the
boat so well, why not come for a spin in f it some
day?”
“I would love to, but think what people would
say of me. That is the worst of making your boat
notorious. No proper girl can be your guest, and
your company becomes strictly limited.”
“In the boat, perhaps.”
“No, everywhere. Don’t you find it hard to
get a nice girl who knows of the Aerolite to go to
dinner with you? She runs the risk of being sus-
pected of being about to join in Aerolite revels.”
“I have not noticed it,” I said coldly. This
attack from a girl who came to Don Watson’s
studio irritated me. Don’s studio was just about
as notorious as the Aerolite.
She noticed the change in the tone, and looked
up quickly.
“Now I have offended you,” she said, with a
winding smile; “and that was the last thing I
intended to do. Let me make you some tea.
Don, where do you keep the tea ? ”
“ Where it has always been kept—nothing ever
changes its location in this studio,” said Don,
bluntly, bending over his work. The rebuked
lady arose and walked straight to a cupboard and
produced a kettle and spirit lamp. While she lit
the lamp I fijled the kettle, and when the tea was
made, we dropped the subject of the Aerolite’s
character and talked of pictures.
I stepped out of the Dago oyster palace into
the wet and gleaming street. An opalescent,
green-tinted sky shed a light' that rivalled the
glow of the amethystine electric lamps. I looked
up and found myself face to face with Ida Lee.
She held out a long-gloved hand.
“How is the Aerolite?” she inquired, with a
twinkling eye.
“ Beautiful. I am just going on board. Will
you conic ? ”
“That sky almost tempts me. Who else will
be on. board ? ”
“Only myself ! ”
“ Where is the boat ? ”
“At Fort Macquarie. Say the word and I’ll
drive you down.”
She wavered. I hailed a cab, and before she'
had time to protest had handed her in. The cab
made pace, and before she had made up her mind
to refuse she Was looking down at the white boat,
with its blue water-1 ine showitig momentarily in the
wash of miniature waves. The green opalescent
tint of the sky had become mixed with streaks of
dull carmine that burned through banks of clouds.
I drew the boat close and held out a hand to assist
her in.
‘ Take the plnnge—you will see no one and no
one will see you I ” I laughed, “Nothing
matters as long as you are not found out,”
Sfie stepped aboard. As I started the engine a
waterman pushed'ns off, and in another moment
the Aerolite’s head swung round, and she started
with a' bound. Ida Lee lay haok among the
cushions and watched the shores and ships reel
past, and nhr eyes gleatned with suppressed ex-
oitement as we sped towards the open sea, Out-
side a nor'-e,aster had died down and left the
waters heaving and rolling, and a southerly was
just coming up, so that the roll had become a
jobble, and the water formed a succession of
ridges and valleys that interchanged every
moment. On this tossing water the Aerolite was
like a drunken thing, and rolled and pitched de-
lightfully.
“Southward, please!” she whispered. “Do
you know this is just heaven I}’.”
“ Then you do not regret coming?”
“ My better sense tells me I ought not to have
done so ; but it is so delicious ! ”
“ All sin is,” I mocked.
“ Have you found it so ? ”
“ Do you doubt my word ? ”
“Oh no! If this boat, this cabin, could only
speak ! ”
“How yon would enjoy being lady confessor !’’
I rushed the spark upwards, and the boat began
to spring through the seething waves at a giddy
speed. For the first time she clutched my arm as
the wave-crests screamed when we ripped through
them. The ynnd blew harder, and sometimes
great waves seemed to go right over us, making
the boat tremble with the shock.
“ What a wonderful thing this sea is !”
“ What a much more wonderful thing this boat
js!” I scoffed. “By the way, are yon a good
sailor ? Say when it's too rough for you.”
“I am never ill. I could go on like this for
ever, and if you wore not so sarcastic it would be
delightful. lam sure you are quite different to
other women you take out.” I
“ They did not consider it such a dreadful thing
to come out in our modest old boat. You have
made me very sensible of the honor you have
bestowed on me by coming, and I’m just struggling
to maintain some shreds of manly independence
and save myself from being quite overwhelmed.
That’s all.”
“ I think I would like to turn back now, ” she
said, looking at me reproachfully. “ I have never
been outside in a small boat before, and fancy I
am beginning to be afraid.”
“ It'll be better running back before the wind,”
I said, as I brought the boat round and started for
home. “ Would you like to try your hand at
steering?”
“ Oh, yes,” and in a moment she had forgotten
everything, and was at the wheel beside me.
“Well, steer for that great green star while I
get you some champagne.”
When I had thrown the magnum overboard I
resumed the seat at the wheel, and she drew her
chair closer and let me light a cigarette for her.
We put hostility out of our hearts, and, slow-
ing down, arrived off the Heads just as the moon
climbed over the crests of the waves. By the time
we had run round Middle Harbor the peace of the
place had come down upon us, and we were
friends.
* * *
For five long months she met me secretly, and
took moonlit runs in the Aerolite. I loved the
girl, and began to hate the women who had
frequented the boat. I stayed away from the
picnics, and strove to get the craft a better
I‘epntation, And, every time I seemed to-make
headway, Franklin would break out into some
cerulean revelry that .made columns for sensa-
tional papers and caused, the Judkinsites to write
to the editors demanding if there was no way of
punishing gilded wasters who “ disgraced the
great water reserves of our beautiful city.” Again
and again, amid the swirling waves on outside
runs, 1 had begged Ida to marry me, and she had
always refused. One night, I pressed her for the
reason. We were sitting together in one big
chair at. the wheel. The moon was just rising
above the crests, turning them to all beautiful
(Continued on next page.)


THE DANGER
of BACKACHE.
All tired out—scarcely enough
energy to get home in the
evening—no rest when you do
get home —as tired in the
morning as at night. The
back is so weak you can
scarcely bend it—aches and
throbs even when you lie still.
The kidneys are to blame.
They are not taking the
poisons out of the blood. They
need help, and need it at once.
Do not disregard the warning
message of the back that
aches, for the ache comes from
the kidneys (which lie just
beneath the small of the
back), and distinctly tells that
uric acid poisons and waste
matter are accumulating in
your body. These are the
poisons that cause dropsy,
Bright’s disease, rheumatism,
bladder troubles, urinary dis-
orders, diabetes.
B
Kt dney
Pills.
Doan’s
ckache
DOAN’S
BacKache
Kidney
Pills
Cure Backache, Weak Back, Rheuma-
tism, Neuralgia, Congestion of the
Kidneys, Inflammation of the Bladder,
Gravel, Stone, Dropsy, and all Urinary
Disorders.
SYDNEY PROOF.
COLD IN THE KIDNEY CURED.
Mr. James Hudson, 14 Lennox Street, Newtown, Sydney, says “I work
in the Bondi sewer. There is a constant drip there, and when working it
mostly happens that one is wet through. Some parts are better than others, hut
while working in the shafts one is continually damp, and this affected my
health. My trouble came with a bad cold in my kidneys, which caused terrible
pains in the back. I did my work, but it was most fearful torture for me to do
so, as you can well understand. I was exceedingly bad with these pains when
1 saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised, and it struck me by the name
of the remedy that it should be good for my complaint, 1 procured them, and
they cured me in a fairly quick time. I could not take them constantly, being
afraid to use them while working in the wet sewer, but I managed to take two
doses a week. The nature of my work causes me to have slight returns of
the pains, but I take a dose of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, which never fail
to cure me. lam never without them in the house.”
This statement was made nine years ago. Mrs. Hudson says to-day “My
husbiind is still well, and free of backache, and he has been ever since he used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, nine years ago.”
BACKACHE AND WEAK BACK CURED.
Mr. E. R. Davis, Proprietor Somerset Hotel, Station Street, Newtown,
Sydney, says “ I suffered for so long with backache and weak back that lam
pleased to tell other sufferers what will cure these distressing ailments. My
experience proves that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are the cure. My back
never ceased aching, and besides the pain and inconvenience, I. was afraid of
more serious symptoms of kidney trouble developing. I tried remedy after
reniedy, but it was only waste-of time and money, and I was so disgusted with
medicines for the kidneys that I would not have tried Doan’s Backache Kidney
I ills, but a friend told me they had cured him, and urged me to fee ‘ them. I
am glad I did, for two boxes cured me, „ This did not happen yesterday, but
four years ago, and lam still free of the backache. My lasting cure proves
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills permanently cure backache and weak back.”
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers at 219 per bottle (six
bottles, 15/3), or will be posted on receipt of price
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
tints, and making a rainbow around our prow.
With one hand on the wheel and the other round
her waist, 1 pressed her for the reason.
As we rushed down into great purple
hollows she told me how she had watched ihe
course of love, and how the wife before marriage
was everything, but afterwards she was left at
home while a new love becune the outside com-
panion. “If I married you, I would get but very
few outside runs. My place would be taken by
an endless procession of other women. It’s man’s
nature, and you couldn’t help it. The ‘other
woman ’ has all the best of life, and. Heaven for-
me, that’s why I will never marry you.”
J- hen be the ‘other woman,’” 1 murmured, as
we sprang skyward on a giant wave.
* * * *
One Saturday afternoon I took her off a rocky
point that juts out beyond lio<e liay. Her eves
were slightly red, and twice during the afternoon
1 found her in tears. It was nearly sundown
when she told me with a storm of sobs that she
had parted in auger from her sister, and that the
dilapidated old liner which had passed us a
little while ago was bearing her to England.
“She topic the position of secretary to a jewel
merchant,’ she sobbed, “and I was angry because
she preferred seeing the world to living quietly in
Sydney with me. I refused to say good-bye to
her, and now I would give the world for one
glimpse of her face, and the opportunity to throw
her a kiss to show there is no anger left. 1 ”
Well, ’ I replied, airily, "there’s plenty of
fuel on board, and we can pick up that liner by 8
o clock. Shall we do it ?”
She threw her arms round my neck, and her
cheeks flamed red.
Outside the Heads the water was unusually
calm, and the Aeiolite Hew over it at top speed.
A few minutes before eight I picked up the lights
of the steamer and called the news to Ida, who
was making tea forward.
“Her cabin is third from the stern on the right-
hand sale. :She is sure to be looking out.”.
And I was so infatuated that 1 didn’t even
wonder why the sister would certainly be looking
out about that hour.
Just then I glanced along the side of the boat,
and gasped to find my starboard light was out.
Looking along the other side 1 found the port
light wasn’t burning either.
“Look here, Ida, both my lights are out, so if
Jon can catch your sifter looking out so much the
better. I don’t want to attract attention and be
asked my name with both lights extinguished,”
“Very well,” she said, Obliging to the hand-
rail and looking a trifle white at the lips.
Ihe liner rose and fell and lumbered, the great
black clouds of smoke rolled from its funnels, but
what was happening on its ‘decks it was impos-
sible to see, for a faint mist was settling down on
the water. As we ran up to the port side a face
looked out of the third port hole, and Ida ex-
claimed, eagerly:
“It’s Cis!”
She stood up and .threw kisses to the,dark ob-
ject in the porthole, which she declared to be the
head and face of Cis. Then.the light streamed
through, and a parcel came soaring through tbe
air and splashed into the water a few feet from
the motor boat. Apparently it was on a stting,
as almost immediately it struck the water it was
drawn towards the liner's side and swept towards
the propellers.
“ Stand closer—she’s throwing something—a
farewell present.”
I stood in as close as I dared, and I saw the
parcel soar up the steamer’s side to where a hand
at the port grasped it, and again hurled it, this
time on to the deck of the Aerolite.
“Good-bye, Cis; good luck!” called Ida,
throwing a last kiss as we went about.
lor a while Ida watched the great liner with
anxious eyes. Slowly the great black mass van-
ished in the night and the lights grew faint, and
then twinkled right out. I relit my own lamps,
and wondered how I had forgotten to light them
before. I distinctly remembered going forward
to do it.,
When I got back to the wheel Ida was trans-
formed. She was brimming over with happiness
and joy, She threw her arms round me, and
called me all mariner of delightful names. And
she gave me a promise for which I had waited so
long.
* « » *
It was not till an electric lift had whirled me to
the top of a big pile of buildings, and Ida had
shown me through the miniature pantheon in
which she lived, that I realised how little I
knew of this glorious girl. I had imagined her a
penniless artist, living somewhere with middle-
class parents. I fouiyl she was a rich woman
living a bachelor life with servants to wait on her.
Her rooms were all decorated (she said) by her-
self. They had hand-painted walls, the friezes
and ceiling were nocturnes of blue and gold and
amber and green.
Leaving me to wash the salt from my hands and
face, she vanished through a door. When next I
saw her she was draped in clinging garments of
heliotrope, and the brilliant amethysts she wore
filled her eyes with light.
‘Don’t let your landlord see your rooms, or he
will raise your rent to the breaking point to get
the place for.himself,” I said admiringly, with my
eyes fixed on the exquisite frieze.
“I am t)ie landlady—it is all my own.”
“Then you are a rich woman?”
“Well, just enough to live on comfortably. Do
tell what you thought was my position in life.”
“I hardly know—l never‘thought of it. All I
had time to think of was how delightful it would
be to spend my life with you and have you always
for my,own.”
“Flatterer. But it is nice to be flattered by
one whom you believe to love you,” she gurgled,
bringing her face close. “Novv to dinner—l am
just dying of starvation.”
She led the way to the dining-room, where a
capped and cuffed maid served a dainty dinner
over which we lingered air hour. Then she led
the,way to a room of amber and green, where
the tinted lights burned low.
Leaving me-deep in an easy chair with a cigar,
she placed her cigarette holder iu the ash tray and
seated herself at the piano. The violet light in
her eyes fairly glowed, her long brown hands
swept over the keys, and as the melody tinkled
forth she cast a look of tender affection and began
to sing:—
Oil lover from the tumbling sea
Who won me on the purple wave,
If life and self I give to thee,
What shall I be—your queen or slave ?
Will you always worship only me
As ill the ring of the tumbling sea?
Oh lover from the moonlit deep
My youthful love I give to thee,
And all my wealth of passion heap
About thy feet most sumptuously—
Body and soul I cleave to thee,
My lover from the tumbling sea !
Wind and wild waves have heard thy vow
Amidst the song of choral seas,
And I am yours for ever now,
To make or break me as you please.
For pity’s sake he kind to me,
My lover from the tumbling sea.
Her voice died down to something like a sol). I
caught her in my arms.
On Monday morning I was still about the
happiest fool on earth. 1 wandered down to the
office and dreamed again of her white shoulders
peeping from the amber silk, and looked longingly’
at the clock every few minutes, cursing Tune for
travelling so slowly’. All day long I conjured up
visions of our meeting that even.ng in the rose-
scented room of green and amber.
Even, the longest day comes to a close, and
when the violet light of the arc lamps was flooding
the streets 1 rushed out and sprang into a cab,
shouting the address through the trap door as I
fell into the seat. He was a good cabby 'who
understood his business, and knew from my
manner I was in a hurry. So he drove like Jehu,
furiously. At the door 1 sprang to the lift. The
lights were out and the lift boy was gone. I went
up the stairs three steps at a time to the first
floor, and then gravitation began to tell. But in
spite of gravitation I made top speed to the
summit, and looked for the glow of the light
through the painted fanlight. There was none.
1 tried the door. It was unfastened, and I burst
in. My feet resounded on the bare floor. I fell
with a curse over a packing case.
» » » •
I went out and took to drink, and as I breasted
the bar for my sixth a ragged newsboy suggested
I should ‘‘tike me last rag and let me go ’imie!”
He added, as a further inducement, that it con-
tained a full account of the great “ jool robbery.”
The barman gave me a summary of it as he
mixed another drink. Moss Goldstein had taken
his secretary and his swag of gems on board the
steamer, had drunk too much for dinner, had gone
to sleep, and had awakened to find his gems gone.
And this was out on the high seas. The secretary,
whose name was Samuel Isaacs—not Cis Lee-
had been searched, and so had everybody else on
the steamer. The frenzied merchant had got
practically the whole ship searched before it
entered Port Phillip Heads, but the jewels had
not been discovered. A man dozing on the deck
thought he had caught a glimpse of a white boat
passing the steamer about 8 p.m. the night before,
and also thought he had heard voices on the
water. And that was all.
Cold perspiration broke out over me. I threw
the cocktail on the floor, and thought hard
of the parcel that had whizzed down from the
porthole to the deck of the Aerolite. Jewels do
not take up much room, and years of the output
of Kimberley might have been contained in that
parcel. I staggered out and drove off to find
Franklin’.
Next day the Aerolite was painted a sort of dirt
color with drab trimmings. And it has remained
that hue ever since.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
The Old Kit Bag.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ITS musty old leather smells sweeter to me
Than attar of roses, or afternoon tea ;
Its mottled skin, showing the wear o’, the
weather,
Brings back the long trails that we travelled
together;
I he battered old Kit with its labels and stains.
’Mid friends and good fellows, most constant
remains.
The grate of the wheel and the kick of the screw ;
The fog in the morn witli the sun breaking
through ;
New dreams and new hopes and the lure of new
places,
Strange inns and fresh beds and the charm of fresh
faces ;
Three songs never weary—the lash of the seas,
The roar of the south wind, the cry of the trees.
Man houses temptation. And once in his life
May come to him dreams of another man’s wife.
But an old Kit Bag, like a friend and a fellow;
Will index his tracks to the regions where mellow
The fruits of Love’s fancy that ripe in the sun,
Nor sour on his conscience o’er-greatly when won.
For Love is a vestal; as Love is a rake,
Hell baiteth its hooks with A Fair Woman’s Sake ;
But the old Kit Bag, with the world for a
college—
Full crammed to the neck with his collars and
knowledge—
With never a heart ’neath his tough, wrinkled
hide
Has oft baffled Hell—and the lady beside.
Man sups with Misfortune ; the scourge and the
flail
Are laid to the backs of the culprits who fail;
But Fortune, her wings like a falcon may fold in
Some Isle of Beyond, or some far gully golden ;
And the Old Kit Bags that we packed in despair,
Our guiding stars prove to the good days out
there.
A cooler for passion, a cure for the wine.
Dear prodigal comrade, gone husking with swine,
When cash is run out and your credit is ended,
A pill for the patient, well-tried, recommended,
Is the old Kit Bag that you dolefully pack,
Kick under the berth, or consign to the rack ;
’Twill carry your pictures, pyjamas and clothes ;
Your worldly possessions and most of your woes,
For when you are down with your' face to the
gravel
There’s nothing so wholesome aiid healing as
travel;
There’s nothing so musical, soothing and true,’
As the skirl o’ the wheel, or the grunt of the
screw.
The plains are a blessing, the seas are a boon :
The surf on the shingle, the scud o’er the moon ;
And"never a grief or a sour human sorrow,
Is filial while dawneth a human to-morrow—
Let Ada go wanton, let Maggie flaunt by,
My son, you’ll forget ’em next week—if you try.
So, here’s to the Djinn witli his leathery grin,
His solace for failure and falsehood and sin !
Here’s to the kits of the roving outsiders,
The wandering wild geese, the ready rough-
riders !
Till the curtain is down, the corpse candles lit,
Here’s to the Kit,
The dandy old, bandy old, handy old Kit.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


<c having recovered from rheumatic fever X was
so weak that I thought I would never get strong again.
i
.
W
W
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
eight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
Adelaide.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disappoint
you. Get “AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowed, Maas., U. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
5
Bird’s
Custard with Sruil
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Standard Remedy which haa outlived the Centime*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1506.
aauaau
fe'V >V-
’CURES ■
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Wea k Sight
ABk your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lam belli Road Loudon, Eng.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
miE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
X Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet ot Ten, sd. Post Free
to any address. _
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
COLORED POST CARDS, by Hurry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROW
The Original and Only Genuine
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/fj, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, GOLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHCEA , and is the only
and DYSENTERY.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these inst ruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned..
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Mtiai Reeds, price 22/C, postfree.
~~ THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free;
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bel! Metal Reeds, price 15 », post free.
ALLAN tie, CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
-ir ' ... Uv-tH. --■ "
—— agents for ——
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PLAIN TRUTHS
on the subject of Health are the only acceptable pronouncements.
Exaggerated statements end by convincing no one—rather do they create
suspicion, and give rise to doubt. But you may safely listen to universal
opinion. The public have for long known the value of Beecham’s Pills
in cases of disorder and irregularity of the Stomach, Bowels, Liver and
Kidneys. Thousands of men and women know, from glad experience,
that an occasional dose of Beecham’s Pills will promote the healthy action
of these organs, and that all the good things heard on every hand
ABOUT
this medicine are true in the strictest sense. Most people desire a
specific that can be depended upon at all times to correct the vital
functions when they are out of order and Nature calls for some assist-
ance. Such a preparation may be found in BEECHAM’S PILLS.
They will put you right and keep you up to the mark. They have
proved an immense boon to many thousands of men and women
all over the world. It is just as certain that they will benefit you—
and this is a plain truth you may accept and act upon in regard to
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1% (56 pills) and 2/9 (168 pills).
•7:
m
Diploma for
Honorable Mention
OF THE
Franco-British Exhibition,
1908, London,
was awarded to the
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY,
for “ STEEL WINGS ” Windmill exhibited,
which proves that it is the BEST IN THE
WORLD.
The reason is : The bearing on each side of
the wind wheel.
Send for price list to Dept. C now, if you
intend to put in a windmill before the summer
arrives.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
XniBAliLT. 230 pastes, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sakvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining, domld Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PRtPA RA TION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Daxvkks Powkk.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order tl'jrough your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Pricks ‘Nutt.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted 'free, 6s.y
from The Beelktxn Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
SjS' Brilisb=J!iisfralasian
jr-
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
anti published by Australians in London.
(.A POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Price
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may he addressed care or
tHe 1 iun'TSH- Ans'l’uaFjasian during the first
two months of a visit to Groat 13nta.ni. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia m
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Ringsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas &Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg- to submit*the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib. left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price .. .. £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. ..£ll5O
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. ■ ■ ■ ■ ..£5150
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. fid. Sale
Price . ■ ■ • • • - 1? 9
All the above guns are complete with cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge, fin. fid. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts. Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made parable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles, delivered carriage paid to
anv address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
ml Asthma, Bronchitis,»
pf Influenza, Whooping-
p Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
OnMgc
£ungTonfc
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
I-ung Tonic could not have been won,,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its grrzt in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
remedy ever known. Beware of Sub-
stitutes ; ask for “ OWBRIDGE "
when buying Lung Tonie and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Bold everywhere
n bottles at Is. lii
.i W.,43. 6d.,.&!1i
copyright


Buy a Good Hose Now!
Make up your mind to get a good hose, so
tnat your watering will be effective and easy.
During our Re-building Sale we’re quoting
cut prices, so you can see why NOW is the
best time to buy. Anyway, you need the
nose from this on.
Note these suggestive prices
in high-grade Rubber Hose:—
fin. x 3 ply—-25ft. coils .. 12/6
do. 50ft. coils .. 25/-
i*n. x 3 ply—2sft. coils .. 11/6
do. 50ft. coils .. 22/6
A superior quality of Hose-
fin. x 3 ply—3oft. coils .. 23/9
do. 60ft. coils .. 47/6
Mail orders are handled very carefully, and
we send samples and full details on request.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
“The Best House for All-Rubber Goods" ’
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEENAN 8 FROPDE LTD..
MANUFACTURERS OF
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR MINES,
HAULAGE and WINDING PLANTS,
WINCHES, THE “ SCHIELE ” MINE FANS.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney,
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORICINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADu
• ir
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Sole
Importers:
James Hardie & Do.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
WOLFE 3
The beverage
that benefits.
At all times
asK. for and obtain only
McIWNES POBBIE INDICATOR,
“McINNES DOBBIE” INDICATORS
FOR STEAM, GAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted by British Admire.
Urgrest Power Users of the
and used by the
cc
JJ
SEND
FOR
CATALOGUES.
STEAM, BELT OR ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
SPEED ENGINES
.Simple, Double or Triple Act
ingi with Forced Lubrication.
%/m WILD RIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COMPLETE
MINING
EQUIPMENTS.
DICK KERR 8 CO. LTD.,
Head Australian Office: E. S. &A. BANK CHAMBERS,
Engineers, Contractors, George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR
INQUIRIES
SOLICITED.
GENERATORS, MOTORS, ELECTRICAL MACHINERY, ETC.
tel .
(3236
{5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO
SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED , GATESEND ON TYNE .
SPECIALISTS.
s»
NE
sm
Postal Address:
G.P.O. BOX 1629,
SYDNEY.
’Phone 1390.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
__ Heacg Offices Mutual Life Building:, Martin Place, Sydney.
“ MINE SMELTER,”
SYDNEY.
We Manufacture
in Sydney
PERCUSSIVE ROCK DRILL
AIR (HAND) HAMMER DRILL
fr '*m
life
and for Prices and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.
The CARD CONCENTRATOR
has again been successful after a hard and competitive test at the New Concen-
trating Plant of the KITTIMAC MINES CO., SILVERTON, COLORADO. Card
Concentrators have been installed throughout. Write for descriptive matter
THE KING SCREEN, with its great capacity, is also to the fore.
THE CARD BOSCO HYDRAULIC CLASSIFIER differs from oil other designs.
N. GUTH RIDGE LTD., 263 Ceorge St., Sydney; 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
