

DEWARS
Distillers
to
ĥ
By Appointment
H-M.The Kino.
ħ
107 Kent street, Syaney,
FOR —
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Sfeov
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne,
BCOBAriT.
/S(K,
Ijadley’s Orient Ijotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY SELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
2>o&!x tr C*r
m
—A
" Take it back,
1 must have-
HUTTON’S
Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
fob JEWELLERS.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Herbert’s
Machine Tools.
f. See Wild Cat Column.
Multi sunt quae claudit is,
Or that smacks off with a kiss,
Yes, remember—for ’tis time
It were built in bulky rhyme—
That
wkM
are the purest and most
delicious sweet in Australia.
cUI, uJMuXcf in •%& '(h&t.
THE SECRET OF BTS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
We make it
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES.
279
point of never being 1 out of anything. We keep large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Cells and all accessories.
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts. Your Orders solicited
the silvertown rubber company,
GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
h
ĥ
ħ
»the Queen of all Cocoas
■ FOJ^
[Arom^Strengrtu-Purify:
MALTHOID, as a roof-
covering in place of slates,
tiles, iron or shingles, is
the best material to use.
h
It affords perfect protec-
tion, and the simplicity of
laying it enables every man
to be his own roofer.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY.
Steam and Power Pumps,
ST* A A. A.
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
c. a. Macdonald,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
"The Hercules" Refrigerating' Machine.
ĥ
II
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
. ■ ,
Geelong, Victoria,
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating' and Ice-Making Machinery.
ħ
THIS WATER RETAINS ITS TRADITION AS
A PERFECT TABLE WATER.
OQ « Ninos
The Bulletin
V01.30.— N0. 1525.]
[Thursday, May 6, 1909,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ĥ
71 CASTLEBEACH STREET,
SYD
JSs, ; wlth those reviewed on this
Steele, Present Day Banking, 6s, postage 6d.
Seaton, The Screw Propeller, illus., 15s, postage Bd,
Somerscales, Marine Engineering, 15s, postage Bd.
Grey, Mr. and Mrs. Grattan : With Uncle Sam and his
Family, illustrated, 6s, postage 9d.
Leckfeld, Oil Motors and their Uses, illus., 18s, post 9d.
Lloyd, Every-day Japan, illus., 14s 6d, postage Is.
Gray, Last of the Plainsman, 7s 6d, postage Cd.
Stewart, My Service Days, 9s, postage 6d.
Renwick, Marble and Marble Working-, 15?, postage Bd.
Poole, The Gas Engine, 5s 6d, postage 4d.
Buxton, Turkey in Revolution, iilus., 9s, postage Bd.
de Windt, My Restless Life, 9s, postage 6d.
Deans, Trials of Five Queens, 9s, postage Bd.
Oxenhani, John : Lady of Shadows, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Munsterberg, Psychology'and Grime, 6s, postage 6d.
Watson, House of Broken Dreams, 2s 6d, postage 4d.
Nash, Hungary of To-day, 9s, postage 9d,
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
rsT" AN IDEAL REMEDY
auj
5*2?
O N
HiEiiSS-
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHGL CHEMICAL
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing: No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug:.
Suited for Old and Young:.
The Lancet says: “ Proved to be effective bactericidal/
as is creosote.” ,
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBE'S ” do
not interefere with the Digestion; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their anfiseptie properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the {ood.r'ken taken
after food. \ /
Sold by AM Chemists, or
Poet Free on Receipt of
1/6 " s
COMPANY, LTD., « ™ BK stub, sy oW£lr
THE RED PAGE
Cleopatra
Her beauty might outface the jealous hours,
ame * ;0 * ove ar *d pain to a tender sleep,
And the strong nerve of hate to sloth and tears :
Make spring rebellious in the sides of frost,
JLnrust out lank winter with hot August growths.
Compel sweet blood into the husks of death,
And from strange beasts enforce harsh courtesy.”
T. H atm an, Fall of Antony, 1655.
Her mouth is fragrant as a vine,
A vine with birds in all its boughs;
Her pent and scarab for a sign
Between the beauty of her brows
And the amorous deep lids divine.
Her great curled hair makes luminous
Her cheeks, her lifted throat and chin.
Shall she not have the hearts of us
To shatter, and the loves therein
To shed between her fingers thus?
Small ruined broken strays of light,
Pearl after pearl she shreds them through
Her long sweet sleepy fingers, white
As any pearl’s heart veined with blue,
And soft as dew on a soft night.
A 3 if the very eyes of love
Shone through her shutting lids, and stole
The slow looks of a snake or dove ;
As if her lips absorbed the whole
Of love, her soul the soul thereof.
Lost, all the lordly pearls that were
Wrung from the sea’s heart, from the green
Coasts of the Indian gulf-river;
Lost, all the loves of the world—so keen
Towards this queen for love of her.
You see against her throat the small
Sharp glittering shadows of them shake;
And through her hair the imperial
Curled likeness of the river snake,
Whose bite shall make an end of all.
Through the scales sheathing him like wings,
Through hieroglyphs of gold and gem,
The strong sense of her beauty stings,
Like a keen pulse of love in them,
A running flame through all hia rings.
Under those low large lids of hers
She hath the histories of all time;
The fruit of foliage-stricken years;
The old seasons with their heavy chime
That leaves its rhyme in the world’s ears.
She sees the heart of death made bare,
The ravelled riddle of the skies,
The faces faded that were.fair,
The mouths made speechless that were wise,
The hollow eyes and dustjry hair;
The shape and shadow of mystic things,
Things that fate fashions or forbids;
The staff of time-forgotten kings
Whose name falls off the Pyramids,
Their coffin-lids and grave-clothings ;
Dank dregs, the scum of pool or clod,
God-spawn of lizard-footed clans,
And those dog-headed hulks that trod
Swart necks of the old Egyptians,
Raw draughts of man’s beginning God ;
The poised hawk, quivering ere he smote,
With plume-like gems on breast and back ;
The asps and water-worms afloat
Between the rush-flowera moist and slack ;
The cat’s warm black bright rising throat.
The purple days of drouth expand
Like a scroll opened out again ;
The molten heaven drier than sand,
The hot red heaven without rain,
Sheds iron pain on the empty land.
All Egypb aches in the sun’s sight;
The lips of men are harsh for drouth,
The fierce air leaves their cheeks burnt white,
Charred by the bitter blowing south,
Whose dusty mouth is sharp to bite.
All this she dreams of, and her eyes
Are wrought after the sense hereof;
There is no heart in her for sighs;
The face of her is more than love—
A name above the Ptolemies.
Her great grave beauty covers her
As that sleek spoil beneath her feet
Clothed once the anointed soothsayer;
The hallowing is gone forth from it
Now, made unmeet for priests to wear.
She treads on gods and god-like things,
On fate and fear and life and death,
On hate that cleaves and love that clings,
All that is brought forth of man’s breath
And perisheth with what it brings.
She holds her future close, her lips
Hold fast the face of things to be;
Actium, and sound of war that dips
Down the blown valleys of the sea,
Far sails that flee, and storms of ships j
The laughing red sweet mouth of wine
At ending of life’s festival;
That spice of cerecloths, and the fine
White bitter dust funereal
Sprinkled on all things for a sign ;
His face, who was and was not he,
In whom, alive, her life abode;
The end, when she gained heart to see
Those ways of death wherein she trod,
Goddess by god, with Antony.
Algernon Swinburne
[From the Comhill Magazine, 1866—written to illus-
trate a drawing by F. Sandys in which Cleopatra is
represented as treading on a consecrated vestment.
Swinburne wrote of it: “My impression is that the best
thing about the poem is the motto—from an imaginary
‘Fall of Antony.’ This was really a chipping from the
first (undergraduate) sketch of ‘ Chastelard
Prof. Hugo Miinsterberg’s Psychology
and Grime (per G. Robertson and
Co.), makes a strong claim for the
Psychology
and Crime
introduction of experimental
psychology into the Law
Courts. In a popular style,
free from technicalities, he explains that,
assuming honest intention, the value of
evidence is relative to the capacity of the
witness to observe correctly, and he gives
the results of numerous experiments which
proved that very few of the persons tested
under the most favorable circumstances,
were able to give a correct account of
what they saw. These experiments, ex-
tending over a fairly long period of time,
bring forcibly before the reader the
illusions to which the senses of the nor
mal individual are subject, and the defects
of the ordinary memory, and give weight
to the plea that just as a railway man-
ager subjects applicants for employment
to tests for color-blindness, so should the
law examine the mental color-blindness
of a witness’s memory. It may be noted
that experiments with school children
seem to show that girls have a better
memory than boys as far as omissions
are concerned—they forget less; but
they have a worse memory than boys as
far as correctness is concerned—they un-
intentionally falsify more.
The subtle influence of suggestion in
the production of crime and in the dis-
tortion of evidence is admirably treated,
but the argument for the adoption of
psychological methods in the detection of
crime is not convincing. Every skilled
cross-examiner resorts to expedients based
on empirical psychology, and every judge
has his own way of testing the credibility
of witnesses. The late J udge Windeyer,
for instance, advocated the admission of
some of the evidences referred to in the
chapter on “Traces of the Emotions.”
The Professor concedes that Applied
Psychology has not yet sufficient data
upon which to establish safe and univer-
sally applicable tests for the examination
of accused persons. He shows, however,
the class of cases in which the psycho-
logist can render valuable assistance to
the present machinery of the law ; and,
more important still, he points to the
means which society should adopt to
assist in the prevention of crime.
Excluding the pathological cases—the
insane, hypnotised and other kinds of
diseased minds, he believes that no man
is born a criminal, and Lombroso only
strengthened the charge against society
that it has not done its duty—that it
really manufactures the hopeless criminal.
Crime is not a disease, but the result of
an impulse which is normally checked;
and it is the business of society to
strengthen all the influences which auto-
matically check the chance or persistent
impulses of variable human nature to
bump against the law. This little book
of Prof. Miihsterberg’s, which is the fore-
runner of a larger technical treatise,
makes interesting reading, and illustrates
the great strides already taken by modern
psychology, based on. physiology and
employing inductive methods, since its
humble beginning with Prof. Wundt a
little more than twenty years ago.
Some
Australians
The N.S.W. Bookstall Co. deserves praise
for giving Australian story-writers a chance
to gain an audience amongst
their own people. Three
more volumes are now added
to its list of popular fiction, “written, illus-
trated and printed in Australia.” Of these
The Barb of an Arrow , by Roy Bridges, is a
well-told story of convict days in Tasmania.
The author has digested his facts well, and
does not over-color his picture of the System
and its results. The story is not in the
same class as Marcus Clarke’s ; but then it
is not so harrowing, and the adventures are
mostly in the open air.
A. E. Jobson provides a readable imitation
of Sherlock Holmes and Martin Hewitt in
The Adventures of Bussell Howard. This
gentleman, who acts as “adjuster of other
people’s affairs,” is concerned with princes
and peers in Europe, and does not set foot
in Australia.
The New Ghum is a reprint of stories
which have appeared in various periodicals,
with a couple of new ones, by Arthur H.
Adams, the former editor of this page. His
successor, having examined it carefully,
hereby certifies that the work has been well
and truly done, and the public may safely
invest its bob.
The Souse of Broken Dreams , by Kathleen
Watson (per G. Robertson and Co.), is a
diary addressed to a son, recording the
unusual life of an Australian family in a
vein of sentiment which may appeal to
mothers. The villain of the piece is a
schoolmaster, with a curious form of lunacy
—a most unreal creation.
Ex-
Australians
Australia does not easily forget any of her
children who have left to try their luck with
the fickle Jade elsewhere, even though they
may never come back to her.
Some have done her honor,
and she is proud of their sue-
cess; some have tried but failed, and for
these she'has sympathy ; while others have
sold their birthright for a mess of pottage.
Carlton Dawe, a South Australian by
birth, began with Australian stories — Mount
Desolation, The Emu’s Head, and The Pil-
grims—crude but honest. For some time
past, however, he has catered for the British
public with romance and novel in more
familiar settings. The New Andromeda
(Bell), his latest effort, begins incredibly
with an English Perseus in a motor-car find-
ing his Andromeda tied naked to a tree.
He rescues her, of course, and eventually
meets the Monster who, unlike his prototype,
triumphs in the end. For those who care
for piffle it will do very well.
Mary Gaunt (Mrs. Lindsay Miller), a Vic-
torian, made her mark with short stories,
collected in The Moving Finger, and wrote two
or three pretty good novels before collabo-
rating with J. Bidgwell Essex in the pro-
duction of Fools Bush In and The Silent
Ones. The latter (from T. Werner Laurie)
presents an interesting study of an out-of-
the-way character—an Ashanti who had been
educated in Europe, won academic honors
and scientific distinction, but lost his own
people and gained no other. The Ethiopian
could not shed his skin ; though treated with
courtesy, he felt that he was never regarded
as an equal, and therefore he was isolated
and unhappy. But he met one German
scientist who drew no color line whatever,
and in return for his affection, Dr. Craven,
the Ashanti, set off for Africa to obtain a
sacred book of the Soudan, which would be of
immense value to the German professor. At
the outset of his adventure he rescues a girl
about to be sacrificed by fanatics of the tribe
to which he belonged, and the vengeance of
these Silent Ones adds a Rider Haggard
element to the story,
H. B. Marriott Watson, of Maoriland,
has never returned to that country in his
novels since he wrote The Web of the Spider.
Now, it seems, he has turned his back on the
Galloping Dicks and the Skirts of Happy
Chance with which he made a reputation for
“go” and humorous frivolity, and, under
the influence of H. G. Wells, has plunged
into the serious study of contemporary life.
The Flower of the Heart (per Sydney Book
Club) justifies the departure. It holds the
reader by its careful character drawing and
well-managed plot. The vicissitudes of the
adventurer in fipance, Eversley, the social
campaign of his wife, and her unhappy love
for a cad of the upper class make an in-
teresting story. Marriott Watson’s future
work in this line ought to be good.
My Service Days, by Major-General Sir
Norman Stewart (Bell), is a not very well
written life of a soldier who has seen service
in India, Afghanistan, Soudan, and China.
The record relating to China, being the
latest, is the fullest, occupying more than
half the book. It might have been cut
down with advantage, as many of the entries
are not more startling than these :
7th —Very bright weather. Therm. 5° at 8 a.m.
Am not feeling very fit.
26th —Nothing to note.
The author gives the N.S.W. and Victorian
contingents in China a very good character.
“Handymen, full of resource,” “splendid
specimens of manhood,” etc. He has seen
specimens of' the soldiers of various nations,
and concludes with this reflection :
The infantry of all armies seem to be sadly
deficient in good shooting “ when under fire,”
and it makes one wonder “if all musketry train-
ing in peace time is not so much money and time
thrown away.” The closer the quarters the worse
the shooting. Until our boys are taken in hand
during their school days I don’t believe we will
have a really good “shooting” army.
Those who care for reading about hunting
will find Stalks Abroad, by H. F. Wallace
(Longmasn, Green and Co.), a well-illustrated
account of the killing > of a great variety of
animals, including the deer of M.L., which
is now “one of the finest deer-stalking
countries of the world.” Wallace’s two
years’ hunting trip began at the Yellow-
stone Park, U.S. A., where he met the mighty
hunter, Buffalo Jones. The Last of the
Plainsmen, by Zane Grey (Hodder and
Stoughton), is a very lively and interesting
account of an expedition with Jones, in
which he displayed his quality as a stalker
and gave much valuable information about
animals and their ways. Jones has devoted
most of his life to the capture and taming of
wild animals, but never killed if he could
help it. Seeing that the buffalo, which once
roamed the plains in millions, was on the
verge of extinction, he smashed his rifle and
devoted himself to their preservation. To
his care is due the presence of the herds now
in Yellowstone Park. Anyone who as a
boy read with delight of the stirring adven-
tures of Daniel Boone, Kit Carson, Custer and
Buffalo Bill, will be glad to revive old
memories with this book.
A voluminous account of Hungary of To-
day (Bell) should be useful to anyone seeking
information about the country, its people and
institutions, but does not afford much for
this page. The country of Liszt and
Joacliim is prolific of musicians and singers,
and Hungarian folk songs are amongst the
finest in the world. The chapter on the
intellectual life of Hungary is full of names,
all, we think, save that of Maurice Jokai,
unknown to most Australian readers. Jokai’s
works are said to be a rich and faithful pic-
ture gallery of Hungarian life. He produced
over 250 volumes, so that Magyar must be
an easy language to write novels in, though
it does not look like it.
4
Re Oppenheim’s “ The Long Arm,-” Red Page
(l/4/’O9), Bernard Capes, if I remember rightly,
used the same title for a long article in Chambers’s
Journal last year. Any number of authors can
turn out a possibly readable novel, but when it
comes to naming their brain-child they are barren
of ideas, and oftentimes use or alter a title that
has done-duty before. A few examples that have
come under my notice : Amelia Barr wrote a
book which she called “ The Feet of Clay.” Edgar
Turner evolved “ The Girl with the Feet of Clay,”
H. A. Vachell named one of hi's “ The Face of
Clay,’’ H. C. Bailey turned out “The God of
Clay,” and James Blyth used “The Same
Oljay.” Again, Dumas wrote a “Pauline”;
W. E. Morris’s last is called “Pauline.”
Helen Mathers wrote a “Land o’ the Leal,”
David Lyall also wrote a “Land o’ the Leal.”
Rex Beach penned “ The Spoilers,” E. Pugh also
brought out “The Spoilers.” Morley Roberts
told about “The Way of a Man,” Emerson
Hough’s latest is also “The Way of a Man.”
Sydney McCall wrote about “The Breath of the
Gods,” Dmitri Merejkowski “The Death of the
Gods. ” A. E. W. Mason made “ The Broken
Road,”Armie Swan “The Broad Road,” John
Oxenham “The Long Road,” E. Godfrey “The
Winding Road,” and Major A. Griffiths “The
Wrong Road.” Rolf Boldrewood wrote “In Bad
Company,” Guy Boothby “In Strange Com-
pany.” G. B. Burgin told of “A Woman’s
Way,” L. T. Meade “The Way of a Woman.”
Silas Hocking created “The Silent Man,” and,
wonder of wonders, somebody else found “ The
Silent Woman.” But, for general utility, the
title beginning “The Mian Who—” takes the
pastry. Here are a few : “The Man Who Was
Dead,” by A. W. Mvrchmont; “The Man Who
Was Thursday,” by G. K. Chesterton ; “ The
Man Who Rose Again,” by Joseph Hi eking;
“The Man Who Won,” by Mrs. Baillie Reynolds ;
“The Man Who Knew Better,” by Tom Gallon ;
“The Man Who Forgot,” by J. Mackie. And
there are othersS
WANG.
WELSH LULLABY.
(After the Welsh of Robert Bryan.)
Showing the Cymric “Inlaid Rhyme.”
A S a blossom, sweet and rosy,
Folds its petals for the night,
In my bosom curling cosy,
Hush you, hush you, baby bright!
While I’m by thee, nothing cruel—
Not one harmful sound or sight—
Shall come nigh thee, O my jewel!—
O my armful of delight!
Little flowerets in the meadows,
Little nestlings in the trees
Now are sleeping in the shadows
To the cradling of the breeze ;
But the blossom of my bosom,
But the birdie on my knees,
While I lock him there and rock him,
Has a warmer nest than these.
Start not ! ’tis the ivy only
Tapping, tapping o’er and o’er.
Start not ! ’tis the billow lonely
Lapping, lapping on the shore.'
Through your dreaming you are beaming,
O so purely now, my store,
You must see your angel, surely,
Smiling through Heaven’s open door.
A. P. Graves (in The Bookman).
Mr. T. C. Lothian announces a volume of
verse entitled “Lyrics in Leisure,” by Dorothy
McCrae (Mrs. Perry). Price Is.


2k
Silver’s Agricultural
Lever Forges
UD
No. 3.
No. 4.
Silver’s Agricultural Lever Forges have been
designed to meet the demand for a good all-round
portable forge that will fulfil the requirements of
Farmers and all kinds of light repairing work.
The Silver Lever Forges are substantially constructed
of cast-iron, with fin. pipe legs, and are strong and
rigid. The Beaver-fan gives a powerful and lasting
blast that is produced with verv little energy.
No. 3, as illustrated with shield ; height of forge.
30in. ; diameter of pan, 18in. ; Fan case, Sin. ;
.£1 15s. ; with 9in. Fan, £2 10s.
No. 4, Silver Portable Forge, as above, with
Sin. Fan and Hood, £2 16s.
The BIRSHEFF Punch.
-oooOOOi
PUNCH OPEN.
The “ BirshefF” Belt and Strap Punch and
Belt Marker. A very small article that can be
carried in the vest pocket, always ready. Lift the small
stud, and push the cutter to whatever size required,
from 1-16 hole to 13-32nds of an inch. In operation,
push the blade right through the leather to size
required, then one or two turns and the operation is
completed. Price 3/3 each.
Barnes’ No - H Upright
Drill,
With Combination Lever, Automatic Stop, and
grand Self-feed ; weight, 97Glb. £34
Very strong and stiff, thoroughly well-made ; high-grade in
every respect. Spindle fitted for No. 3 Morse taper ; roller
bearing for spindle thrust. Positive Self-feed, with four
changes of feed. 22Jin. swing. Height, 74in. ; diameter of
column, 6gin. ; diameter of spindle, X 11-16 in. ; vertical travel,
12in.; diameter of table, ISin. ; from spindle to table, 26in. ;
hdiameter of large pulley in cone, lOin. ; diameter of small
%ulley in cone, 4in. ; ratio of back gearing, 5£ to 1; floor space
Required. 52 x 19in. ; belt required, 2£in. ; fast and loose
pulleys, 10 x 3Jin. Countershaft should make 200 revolutions
per minute. Back geared. The above Drills are fitted with
quick return Lever for spindle.
The same machine, 26iti. swing, £49 10s
Star Screw Cutting
Engine Lathe.
New Model Lathe fitted with Treadle and with Compound Rest.
The Lathe has a 9in. swing, and is invaluable for light Manufacturing.
Toolroom, Experimental, Laboratory, Technical School, and Repair
Work, where accuracy, durability, and convenience are essential.
No. I.—The Star Screw Cutting - Engine Lathe,
Treadle, with Compound Rest.
Will cut threads from 3 to 04, without combination, and by combining
the gears, almost any thread required.
S 3
MOD^ V
i. :! •
Vertical Spindle Moulding and Shaping Machine.
ħ
This Machine is for moulding or shaping straight, circular,
or irregular outlines, and is specially suitable for using cutters
in grooved holders, on square blocks, or with cutters through
the spindle.
The frame is a cored casting in one piece. The table is 32in. square,
and has planed grooves across it so that the fences, etc., can be fixed square
without loss of time in “setting” and in any position. The slide carrying
the spindle has planed seats the full length, and is adjusted vertically by
screw worked through bevel wheels and conveniently placed hand-wheel.
The bearings are phosphor bronze, extra long and heavy, and are turned on
the outside and fitted into bored seatings. J
The spindle and long pulley are made from one solid steel forging'
in order to get a true running balance. A loose Head, lin. diameter, is
fitted to the spindle, which will carry a square cutter-block, grooved collars,
or solid reversible cutters. The countershaft supplied with the machine is
arranged to work the spindle right or left, and convenient reversing gear is
provided.
Diam. of pulleys on Countershaft, Bin. Revs, per minute, 800.
Price, £45 lOs.
_ Improved Self-acting-, Sliding,
Surfacing, and Screw - cutting
Lathes, fitted with powerful double-
geared headstocks, steel spindle
running in conical or parallel gun
metal bearings. Reversing motion
for cutting right- and left-hand
screws, for sliding in either direc-
tion at will, without the use of an
extra stud in quadrant. The Guide
Screw is accurately cut and full
length of bed, fitted witli double
clam nut to clip screw at top and
bottom, the nuts self-compensating
for wear in the thread ; quick hand
traverse by rack, pinion and double
purchase wheel thereby being under
easy and ready control. The bed
is accurately planed and surfaced,
fitted on standards, and provided
with movable bridge piece or gap,
compound slide rest adjustable for
surfacing and turning conical, tra-
versing steady stay. Loose head-
stock can be made to move sideways
for conical turning when ordered,
self-acting, sliding and surfacing
motion by backshaft, independent
of guide'screw. 22 Change wheels,
one face plate, one catch plate, index
plate, screw keys, overhead motion,
cone countershaft, hangers, fast and
loose pulleys complete. Gearing
and all change wheels turned and
cleaned by Tooth Cleaning Machine.
Maude & Turner’s Gap Bed Lathes
Bft. Bed, Sin. Centre
10ft. Bed, loin. Centre
16ft. Bed, lOin. Centre
16ft. Bed. llin. Centre
These Lathes are fitted
Price
£ s. d.
64 O O
92 O O
103 10 O
131 O O
with Countershaft, included i
Weight.
Cvvt. qr. lb.
21 1 0
38 0 0
43 3 0
64 0 0
price.
Radical Patent Square Hole Drilling Chuck and Drill.
Nozzle.
■■■A
Showing Sample of Work.
p
m
Radical Chuck.
Drill for Boring Blunt-edged Square Hole.
They can be fittgd to any lathe, and can be worked without difficulty by every practical engineer.
No. 2 Chuck, will bore Blunt-edged Square Holes, 7-32 to 19-32 or 6to 15 M/M ... ... ... £22
No. 3 Chuck, 3-8 to 25-32 or 10 to 20 M/M ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .£29
No. 4 Blunt Edge Holes, will bore 9-16 to 1 3-16 inch or 15 to 30 M/M ... ... ... ... ... ... ... £35
Drills. —These drills will bore perfectly smooth broken-edged square holes, dead true to size, and to a depth of about three times the
size of the drill. When ordering drills always state the chuck for which they are required,
g 13-32 7-16 15-32 | 17-32 9-16 19-32 g 21-32 11-16 23-32 f 25-32 inch.
4/6 4/6 51- 5/- 5/6 5/6 6/- 6/- 7/- 7/- 8- 31- 9/- 9/- each.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


h
AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON 8 Co. Ltd.,
Sydney’s Leading Skin Salesmen.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
x^tcaL.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE arid GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS. HIDES. TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPEHTS. who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered pronpilv.
Exceptional facilities are offered bv this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GH.IP DROPPER."
Will Andrade for BOOKS
■
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents —
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question.
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN O.IE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Dancing Without An
Instructor. Absolutely
the Best Uuide to the
Ballroom ; stives all the
latest round and square
dances l ; correct positions
of feet shown hv illustra-
tions, 1/3. “ M.C. Cards,”
4d. each, 3/- doz. 1)r.
Foote’s Brain Ho.mkCvci.o-.
imsdia, latest edition, 1248
pa'wes, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner's Origin ai. Book
of Naturk, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Better Writer, 1/t.
C3T"7DVD ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
ĥ
ħ
Marvklloisly Simplk !
Simply Mar'vkllous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing:' Billiard Balls,
Produced from n 6 -:
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fi nsrers (see
illustration). Complktk
with Fi ll Instructions
(enabling: the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite fjew in
magic. Price Gdi ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Thicks (which require no S(nto%’j
no confederates and no special skill), post freefijiy-
wltere, with Illustrated Catalogue of Mairic, 2 &
Stamos or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage Co any address.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
h
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifles
The Winchester Model 1906 is a compact,
light weight, take-down rifle handling the
.22 Short Rim Fire cartridges only. It is
attractive in appearance and outline,. and in accuracy,
reliability of operation and finish it is fully up to jthe
established Winchester standard. It will suit you
in every way including the price which is low.
SOLD BY ALL DEALERS.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno'S ‘FRUIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
hy Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earnest
stages of a disease, it has, m innumerable instances, preventeu a serious illness.
CAUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRTJIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COIVEJPSTITXOW.
WINES mßat B ™ horiv of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Drewery, SYDNEY.
THE CELEBRATED
w/s,.
JAY
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened by patented improvements, and there are no
irritating seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this mark
on every garment.
ANY GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters.
trade
mark
/fAr
s!^RINKA^
Wholesale only —l. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.
ĥ
PALMOS CAMERAS
in all the usual sizes.
Made of
SB
Light Metal.
Fitted with
ZEISS
OBJECTIVES
and Focal
Plane Shutter.
Illustrated Price List c7B Post Free on Application ,
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL DEALERS IN OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS AND FROM:
CARL ZEISS,
JEIMA.
ENGLISH BRANCH-
-29, Margaret Street,
Regent Street,
London, England.
An Overtaxed System
Extreme Nervousness Completely Cured.
An epoch-making achievement is here dealt
with by Mr. Michael Somers, of 47 Camden
Street, Newtown, who speaks of final success
being inevitable in similar cases if like measures
are adopted. His narrative takes the following
form: —
/“I was sitting, down writing a letter one day
in Brisbane, feeling as well as a man could wish to
be, when I suddenly was seized with a dreadful
sensation, and collapsed. Previous to this I had
been leading a very strenuous life, working at top
pressure, and, presumably, I had overdone it.
The strongest systems will break down when
taxed too much, as I have learned to my cost.”
“ What happened,” asked our representative,
“ when you were thus attacked? ”
“ The case looked to be such a serious one that
1 was taken to a hospital in an ambulance, and
there I received the very best attention they
could devote to me. Medicine was ordered, and
everything done they could think of. In all my
travels, and I have journeyed about a good deal,
I have never met a similar case to my own. It
certainly puzzled the doctors at the institution,,
for they could not make head nor tail of the cause
of my affliction.”
“Can you describe to me the feelings you had,
Mr. Somers ? ”
“Constantly recurring feelings of faintness were
as troublesome as anything—such horrible sensa-
tions as would make a man think he was going off
at any moment, and, besides, I was afflicted with
the most extreme nervousness it had ever been
my misfortune to come into contact with. When
everybody else was in bed, comfortably asleep,
was the time that my nerve troubles assumed the
greatest dimensions, and I would have given all I
possessed in the world to have been able to doze
off and get rid, for a while, of the harassing
thoughts that disturbed my mind. I could think
of nothing pleasant; every idea that came was
created in an atmosphere of adversity. I felt that
I was hemmed in by hardships and trials of all
kinds, and I think I was, too. Perhaps I was on
the point of falling asleep when, with-a little
convulsive jump, I d start up again. It was a
feeling as if my heart had momentarily stopped,
and there I’d be dreading the same thing
happening again, for fear of what might follow.
That’s the wretched way most nights went by, so
imagine my despondent, worn-out condition
during the day. Suffocating feelings badly affected
my cliest, and with difficulty I succeeded in
getting my breath. Meanwhile, the sudds'
jumping sensations in the heart’s region con-
tinued, accompanied with a terrible faintness, which
made me often think that my time had come, and
that I surely was going to die. Sometimes a
feeling came.as if I were actually dead in parts—
a horrible kind of numbness, it was—in the
stomach, chin, and back of the neck, and agiqn
and again I was seized with the terrible conviction
that I was going to drop dead. I was really
afraid to fall asleep in case one of these seizures
would come on, and I would never wake up again.
Oh! how awful it was. The extreme weakness
and constant twitching of my nerves could not be
checked by anything the doctors prescribed tor
me, and I had long since despaired of ever being
about in the world again, when I started, through
reading a testimonial in the. paper, taking the
medicine called Clements Tonic.”
And can you conscientiously state that
Clements Tonic made you as sound as you are
now ? ” queried the writer, looking at Mr. bomers
in amazement. . ...
“ I can, indeed ; though it tnay seem incredible ;
but my wife and son here can vouch for what i
say being the gospel truth. The symptoms I have
described did not leave me for a long, long time,
and then only through the wonderful agency or
Clements Tonic. That is the truth, as God is up
judge. It seems like a dream to look back upon
—the hospital, the doctors, the numerous medicines
that did not apply to me at all beneficially, the
fainting bouts, the feelings of paralysis in parts ot
my body, the unhappy frame of mind I was m,
the sleepless nights, the twitching of my ever}
nerve, the awful heart affections, and the intense
feebleness withal—yes, it seems like a hideous
dream that has passed and gone, for wduch 1 have
nothing in the world to thank but Clements
Tonic; so please publish the facts as you like.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, MICHAEL SOMERS, of 47 Camden Street, Newtown,
in Che State of New South Wales, Common wealth ot
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that 1
carefully read the annexed document, and that it eo
and is a true and faithful account of my illness ana
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full perm -
to publish in any way my statements— which ig
voluntarily, without receiving- any payment; ana ‘
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing ti
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Act, 1900.-
Subscribed and declared at Newtown this
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundrea a
eight, before me, JAS . j. THOMSON, J.P.


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
m
K
now in London
writes under
date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 55 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takts pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
Mger’s
%air Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. I ow«H. Mors.. M S V
ħ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bough of us Your
money in fill refunded with utqu stion
if 4. ot perfectly Batißfactor., . Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted fire to ten year , d< spat died
direct from tlie factory to anyoueon approval
at less than loves. nianufa' turera' prices.
Si™ T „ £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best mak- s of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Bim * rakes, variable gears
and all ates improvements
Packed & Delivered Free
to anv port in the ■wo'ld. We guarantee safe delivery.
AfVTIIfC #nt MVO wanted in each district.
HU lIVE Hd lit * O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient p 'Stage for free art catalogues
and our e.ecnl offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO*, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
fl'lHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
1 of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
Winifred Cecilia Swatts
(9 months) suffered greatly while
teething last year, so her mother gave
her SCOTT’S Emulsion. 44 After
taking the first bottle
Of SCOTT’S,” writes Mrs. Ber-
nard Swatts, 24 Bridge Street, Port
Melbourne, Victoria (August, 1908),
“she had greatly im-
proved, and she is now
cutting her teeth with-
out any trouble, and is
gaining in strength and
putting on flesh rapidly.
She looks the picture
of health, and I have
no difficulty in getting
her to take SCOTT’S.”
The SCOTT’S Emulsion post-bag
last year brought this letter among
many hundreds, all containing new
records of cures by SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, cures that other preparations, and
all other emulsions, failed to secure
Of all chemists and dealers in medicines.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CURE!
smrn
laj^nnoss
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE—
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CUBE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUGH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
Halted
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
- Horlick’s is on draught at
1 most Chemist sin Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples- 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng- J
'Z
7^
THE OLD
LINES
and
HOLLOW
PLACES
are
GONE FOR EVER
where formerly the mirror
reflected only hollow
cheeks and a scrawny, bony chest in evening
dress, after a course of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“ FLESH-FOOD”
It reflects a face and figure resplendent in
the acme of perfect development.
“ Flesh-Food ” adds inches to the measure-
ments, and will increase your weight by five
pounds a week. It is pleasant and harmless
to take, and will prove a wonderful benefit
to your health. Send 2d. stamp or call for
Free Trial Sample and Free Descriptive
Book. Send to-day. Hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.
DEPT* 5,
Linden Court,
■ Casti.emf.aoh St..
SYDNEY.
l\
FAT LNTjic,
Collfson&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Established 1577. |
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
r
IF YOU WERE
A CROESUS
with all the wealth of the world
behind you, you could not purchase
a whisky of a more delicate flavour
or greater purity than
o
the whisky which ha c been aptly
described as unique, ubiquitous, and
uniform. The whole production of
the oldest, farthest north Distillery in
Scotland is reserved to maintain the
superior qualities of O.O. (Old Orkney),
and as the proprietors of this distillery
always hold a io years’ supply in their
own bonded store you can always rely
on gelting 0.0. with just the same
delightful flavour and exquisite aroma,
no matter in what part of the world
you may be.
If you have a"y difficulty i '
obtaining 0.0. please writ
direct to the distillery giving
name of your usual store.
j & j. McConnell, Ltd.
Stromness ristillery,
ORKNEY, SCOTLAND
un/qUE^:^
ÜBIQUITOUS
/ AND ■ /
UNIFORM^
DON’T LOOK OLD
DARKEN
YOUR
#1
WITH
h
LOCKYER'S
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
the best natural aperient water.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.
Average Dose:— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Mote the name ‘'Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
3AVH SAVMIV
ĥ
By Royal Warrant
to H. M. the King.
handy in the kitchen for Soups, Gravies, etc.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Boarder.
T\7" ANTED a young Lady Boarder in private family.
'' Apply, E., this office. —Queensland paper.
Wifey’s old, perhaps a scold.
Her face mayhap is wrinkling O !
Her tongue is tart, and hubby’s heart
With passion warm is crinkling O !
Praise the fair, do not despair,
All things come in order O !
A Lady young, with dulcet tongue,
Is wanted as a Boarder O !
Of beauty rare, with golden hair
(Peroxide bloom won’t wash and wear),
A Lady young and plump and fair,
Is wanted as a Boarder O !
Calmly wait, she’ll bolt the bait;
Hubby’s heart is brimming O !
Boarder talks and Boarder walks !
To the seaside they’ll go swimming O !
Bathing mixed, the programme's fixed—
Clothed from neck to knee, you know —
Wife at home, while in the foam
Hubby and the mermaid O !
Cupid’s dart has pierced his heart,
A captivating little “tart,”
Hubby, sure, will play his part,
If once he gets his Boarder O !
She must be fair, beyond compare,
And pink and plump, and passive O !
No prude who’s prim, nor maiden slim,
Nor lassie big and massive O !
A dainty girl will fill the part,
Providing she is willing O !
And lends her ear when no one’s near
To cooing and to billing O !
A dainty girl, with teeth of pearl,
And golden ringlets all a-curl—
Oh ! hubby’s brain goes whirly-whirl
Just thinking of the Boarder O !
Oh, Wives beware, for Boarders fair
Have households wrecked full many O !
They come and go, pass to and fro,
Of peace they leave not any O !
Rows and strife full oft are rife
As time runs on its courses 0 1
And boarder Jills, like boarder Bills,
End up in divorces O !
Frocks and flounces, frills and furs,
Flowers and flimsies; wife demurs,
Hubby woe and debt incurs
To please his dainty Boarder 0 !
QUEENSLAND.
AUSTIN DODD.
Celestial Avenue.
I wandered from the highways
One eve at set of sun,
Down dirty reeking byways
Where putrid gutters run.
1 strolled with footsteps lazy,
And thoughts deep-dro'wned in murk,
Through byways grim and hazy
That lead from Little Bourke,
And, as I tramped on aimless,
Strange things I seemed to see,
For there were dark lanes shameless
Sunk deep in mystery.
But one there was more solemn
Than any that I knew,
I read graved on a column —
“ Celestial Avenue.”
Weird figures silent, stolid,
In silence came and went;
Some of them young and solid,
And others old and bent.
And there were thin, pale faces
That peered from out the gloom,
Features that showed no traces
Of Springtide’s treasured bloom.
I gazed upon them spellbound,
Pale creatures of the night.
Shunned, banned, and ever Hell-bound,
Drooped phantoms of affright!
Out from the teeming silence,
The silence dark and dree,
A figure softly glided
And whispered, “Follow me.”
I followed, and she led me
Where vulgar stenches‘grew—
A building at the head of
Celestial Avenue;
Up creaking stairs, foul-smelling,
And in a half-lit room
(This gives no joy in telling),
I learned Australia’s doom.
There, as my eyes grew stronger,
I saw a sight most weird
(For I was blind no longer —
Oh God ! my heart was seared !)
Three men o’er maps were bending,
Maps of mine country, too ;
Of marvels there’s no ending —
One of the three 1 knew !
For one of them was Yellow,
And one of them was Brown ;
The Other—may Hell blast those
Who drag their country down !
Was White : it shames me ever
To,tell these things to you,
For in our fair Australia
Are traitors not a few !
Swiftly, before I knew it,
The vision changed again,
I saw grim times of trouble
And sacrifice and pain.
Over my humbled country
The Asian ensign flew —
Our destinies were governed from
Celestial Avenue !
VICTORIA.
Burnett Gray.


■
/.
£
o
£
\
B-W
▲
'b
C
i/L
THE CEILINGS
THAT SHOW
GOOD TASTE
' A MODERN
DEVELOPMENT OF
INTERIOR DECORATION.
When you use Wunderlich Metal Sheets for the Ceilings and Wall-linings
you ensure a perfectly artistic finish to a room, and the man in the
country has just as much opportunity of worhing out a pleasing scheme
as his city friend.
The sheets are easily fixed, fire-proof, permanent and will not crach
or discolor. The freight on them is light, too.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which explains
the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Sydney Showrooms:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474. G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms!
243 COLLINS ST.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
m
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY. -
Delightful Aroma and Delicate Flavor
PERFECTION
THE
BEST
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plugs, or Cut Up in Tins, 2ozs. and 4ozs.
7
hi Cali
im
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN S’ CO., P’ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins £t., Melb., Bendi; o, Geelong.
USE
WELSBACH
j;'‘> • • • -
. ... . J ’ -4 }• •
MANTLES
' i
wmm
Hi
... - ;vs
imam
'
%
' - X
. or?;
o
BIS
v '
f * I
>
ifSlSil«Ssii
imp
Vs
Mi
■
-
m
B; "fpiS'
The differ-
ence between
a comfort-
able and an
uncomfort-
able bouse is
the slight
cost of insu-
lating with
GIANT Paper


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.-Nc. 152 H.
Thursday, may 6 s 1909.
PltlOK6d
• —: t> — ——
Jl/A? ~ /
THE PROGRESS OF A GREAT MOVEMENT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.” '
I'rinted and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In A<ivanne, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
Jly'tending direct to Tun Biillktik Ofli.ce Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a. year.
Cheques, . Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maolkoo, Mallaying Director,
/loir to Address Letters.
Correspondents to 'Tun Bullktin would, oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to tire Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy .” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused. by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice..
Insufficiently sta.nyped letters are. liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce, or trails late any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
'The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in tlie “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short. Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ‘will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tun Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are, enclosed,. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these, conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ■will be. understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot, receive attention. Tiik Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mil fours in ftlnele and If /life.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for diiucct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfit ted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which, has to be re-dra.ivn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Ootch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
iDawson and Son, Capetown ; The, Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr.— l'homsonStationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, hhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency , 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Breiver and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Sjieciul Notice.
Tiik Bulletin metal advertising plates,size S'iin. x lkin.,
will be fonvarded. on application. Larger sizes canoe
supplied if desired.
T^e'^xxllelx/n.
THURSDAY, MAY 6, 1909.
MORE FEDERAL CAPITAL SNAGS.
The lamentable fact developed last week that
N.S.W. State Premier Wade had found still
another difficulty in the road of his own favorite
Federal Capital site at Yassberra. It was an
obstruction which anybody save Wade might
have foreseen, but Wade apparently didn’t fore-
see it. He has only discovered it now. The
Federal territory as at present mapped out will
lie right across the Goulburn-Cooma railway, and
about 20 miles of the said railway will be in
Federal territory. That means, of course, that
the Commonwealth will acquire 20 miles of the
line and work it as a Federal undertaking, for it
can’t allow of a divided authority on its own
premises. One end of the Goulburn-Cooma rail-
way will belong to N.S.W. The other end will
belong to N.S.W. The middle will belong
to Australia generally. And as the Australian
Government will own a port at Jervis Bay,
and have a railway from its Yassberra city
to the bay, it will naturally seek to annex the
trade which comes up the Cooma line, at the
spot where it enters Federal territory, and divert
it to its own port instead of letting it go to Sydney
as heretofore. It will do this on plain, simple,
natural principles of competition. It must needs
try to make its port pay, and if, through the
machinations of the Sydney press and the Sydney
Foreign-trade politicians, it is driven to have its
Federal port only 87 miles from Sydney, it must
needs try to make it pay at Sydney’s expense,
that being the only opportunity it will have. All
the members of the present Federal Government
were willing to plant the Federal port nearly 300
miles from Sydney, where it couldn’t compete
with that city, but, being overruled, they have
decided to make the best of Jervis Bay—
and, as it is only possible to make the best
of it at Sydney’s expense, then. Sydney must,
take the consequences of its own folly.
There isn’t much trade as yet on the Goulburn-
Cooma rail way, but unless the State Government
deliberately adopts the policy of keeping the great
Monaro and Eastern Riverina country—about the
most fertile portion of N.S.W.—a wilderness in
order to injure the Federal authority and the
Federal port, the trade must increase; and the in-
creased trade must be intercepted by the Federal
outlet at Jervis Bay. And if the State Government
deliberately lays itself out to restrict the progress
and development of all the State between the
Federal port and the Victorian border, because its
trade will go to the Federal port at Jervis Bay, it
will be laying waste about a third of its own terri-
tory, and that sacrifice would be too tremendous
to be seriously imagined.
* * * *
Of course, the Goulburn-Cooma line is not the
only one involved. A Federal capital in the
neighborhood of Yass, with a port at Jervis Bay
and a railroad between the city and the seashore,
would be in a position to intercept and annex the
trade of the main line from Adelaide and Mel-
bourne, of the Riverina lines from Hay, Finlay, and
Corowa, the branches from Temora and Gundagai,
some of the South Coast trade, and a share of the
commerce which comes along the cross country
line between Bathurst and Murrumburrah. And
out of the necessity to make the Federal port a
profitable investment, the Australian Govern-
ment must needs reach out for all this
trade. It must aim, in fact, at making
Jervis Bay the commercial rival of Sy'dney—if
possible its successful rival. These facts, appar-
ently, didn’t dawn on the obtuse intelligence of
Gregory Wade until he noticed that, through the
unfortunate success of his own policy, the Federal
capital territory is mapped out right across the
Goulburn-Cooma line, so as to cut off the
Monaro trade from Sydney. And, in his anguish,
he wants the Federal territory shifted. This
makes the second shift he has demanded inside two
weeks. In the first place, he found that, because
of his frantic demands that the Federal territory
should be removed from an empty to a thickly-
peopled part of N.S.W., it had been so laid outas
to include the town of Queanbeyan, and he felt,
in his inmost legal soul, that he couldn’t part
with Queanbeyan. He wanted the capital close
up to Sydney and in a thickly-peopled part of
N.S.W., but at the same time lie wanted it in an
uninhabited section of the thickly-inhabited
country; and when he found that his own
arrangement was likely to take from N.S.W.
quite a large number of its inhabitants, and
deprive it of quite a large amount of its im-
portance, he was anxious that the capital site
should be dug up and put in a barrow, and
removed to new quarters. Next, he has dis-
covered that, by reason of his own folly
in demanding that the Federal city and
territory should be taken out of a region
where there are no N.S.W. railways to be
interfered with, and placed in a district where
N.S.W. railways are thick and numerous, the
Federal property will be rig’llt astride an im-
portant line, and will cut off its trade with Sydney;
and the harassed Greg. Wade wants the Federal
territory dug up and carted away again. Appar-
ently, unless the Federal capital is chased right
into the hills, Greg. Wade will never be fully
satisfied with his own foolish work.
In his craving to have the Federal territorj' in a
densely-peopled region where it won’t take up
any of N.S.W.’s population, and in a thickly-rail-
wayed locality where it won’t intercept the
trade of any of N.S.W.’s railways;, and
to have the Federal port right up against
Sydney, and yet where it won’t compete with
Sydney, Wade is a harassed bungler these
days. Ail sorts of devices are being pro-
posed in order to make the Federal territory a
serpentine bit of land which will crawl round and
round amid a maze of valuable State railways,
towns, reservoirs, etc., and yet not touch any of
them. But Time and Circumstance are against
Gregory Wade. No matter what arrangements
he may contrive to make now, future alterations
and future amendments of the Constitution are
certain to upset them and him. The Common-
wealth may begin with a cramped little territory,
situated inside the four corners of nowhere in par-
ticular, but future demands for a better water
supply, for more water power, and for more
breathing room will compel its expansion. If the
Federal city is planted at Yassberra, close by the
back door of Sydney, it must reach out sooner or
later to take from Sydney the trade of all N.S.W.’s
southern and south-western railways, and its port
at Jervis Bay must one day set up as Sydney’s
business rival. The capital of a whole continent
can’t be permanently sat upon and kept down by
a petty clique of State politicians, and no paper
or parchment agreement that can be devised now
in order to prevent its expansion will hold good
for any length of time. The other States are all
partners in the capital, and it is absurd to sup-
pose that they will be content for all time with a
mean, unprogressive, uncommercial metropolis,
simply because Sydney doesn’t want a great rival
city and port at its door—this after insisting that
the Federal city and port must beat itsdoor. There-
fore Gregory Wade’s lamentation about the pro-
posed annexation of his town of Queanbeyan and
his Goulburn-Cooma railway are belated emotions.
The Canberra capital, if it ever comes to pass,
will almost certainly annex a lot more of N.S.W.’s
property than these before all things are done.
* * * *
It must be remembered that the members both
of the present Australian Government and of the
Government which preceded it didn’t want to
annex, steal, appropriate, or in any way in-
terfere with Gregory Wade’s town of Quean-
beyan. They didn’t want to take a large
piece out of his Goulburn-Cooma railway.
They didn’t want to steal from Sydney
the trade that is now borne towards Port Jackson
by seven or eight of the State’s southern and
south-western railways. They had no desire to
plant a rival city at Sydney’s door, or to construct
a rival port only 87 miles south of Sydney, and
beguile the mail steamers and the other carriers
of sea commerce thereto. All these things were
forced on them by a foolish, parochial-minded
party of which the prize bungler, Gregory
Wade, is the figurehead and representative.
The original idea was to place the metropolis of
Australia where it couldn’t interfere with any
N.S.W. railways because there were none there-
abouts. The proposed capital at Dalgety jay in a
region of such abundant water that there was no
chance, as there is at Canberra, that the Common-
wealth would have shortly to demand another 1000
or 2000 square miles of N.S.W. territory for catch-
ment purposes. It didn’t involve any great annexa-
tion of N.S.W.’s population, nor any great conse-
quent diminution of N.S.W.’s political import-
ance, for it was situated where there were no
towns large enough to be worth mentioning. A
city on Monaro would be so far away from
Sydney that it couldn’t by any possibility be a
serious rival, any more than Brisbane is, or Ade-
laide. A Federal port on Twofold Bay would be
so remote from Sydney that it would have to
create a trade of its own around the Monaro and
East Gippsland country, and in this respect it is
quite unlike Jervis Bay, which must needs inter-
cept Sydney’s trade in order to get any trade at
all. The men who made the first selection of a
capital site were good Australians, desirous to do
the best that was possible for the country at large,
while inflicting no injury on any State interest.
But they were overruled by a crowd of disordered
parochialists who were too insensate in their
greed and too hurried in their grab to realise that
they might possibly be reaching out for a great
disaster instead of a great benefit. Wherever the
Federal capital may be it will be the ambition
of all good Australians to make it a great,
rich, prosperous city, and to make its port a
commercial and naval centre worthy of the country
to which it belongs. If the capital is so situated
that this can be done without entering into rivalry
with any State centre, every good Australian will
be more than satisfied. If, through the folly of
clumsy meddlers like WAde, it is placed where it
and its port can only become great by eating up
a State rival —well. Australia can find enough
money to provide all the necessary means for eat-
ing up any rival. It will be a curious situation if
it is the votes of Victorian and South Australian
members which carry the proposals by which
Australia will be taxed (N.S.W. paying two-fifths
of the taxes) to equip the Federal port of Jervis
Bay in a way that will qualify it to lie Port Jack-
son’s competitor. Yet while such persons as
Wade are allowed to control public affairs more
remarkable things than that are possible.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Letter re Monaro.
Mr. J. H. Carruthers, ex-Premier of N.S.W.,
writes :
Your frequent references to recent remarks made by
me in praise of the district of Monaro and its climate are
based on erroneous conclusions, which you have, in your
own way, arrived at. You state that I have changed my
opinion of the Monaro district, and you incorrectly
attribute to me remarks, in times gone by, most dis-
paraging to the district.
Now it is a fact, which the records of Parliament will
prove—that I moved, as Premier, a motion to offer Dal-
gety to the Federal Government as one of the sites for
the Federal capital, and I voted for the inclusion of this
site when a large majority negatived the proposal. What-
ever personal views I may have held then or now, I, at
any rate, was one of the few who voted for the Dalgety
site to be offered by this State to the Federal Govern-
ment. After that motion was rejected by the Parliament
of this State, I simply did my duty to express the wish of
the people’s representatives—as the mouthpiece of
Parliament.
My opinion of Monaro, too, is well shown by the fact
that whilst Premier I caused the tourist district of
Kosciusko to be opened up by a first-class road, accom-
modation houses to be built, and, generally, provision to
be made for the travelling and touring public to more
easily reach the Snowy River district. For over seven or
eight years I have spent the greater part of my brief
holidays on Monaro amongst good friends there, and I
hope to be spared to have many a happy day there in
years to come.
The objections to Dalgety as a Federal capital, so far
as the N.S.W. Parliament is concerned, were not to
Monaro as a whole, but to Dalgety as an isolated part of
the same. The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners, rightly
or wrongly, reported that to make the necessary railway-
connections for express traffic would cost nearly two
millions sterling, with very little prospect of a paying
return. This included not only the line to Dalgety, but
an extension to the Victorian border to meet a proposed
connection there with the railways of the sister State.
Canberra —the proposed or rather the selected Federal
territory-—is only about 60 or 60 miles from Cooma, and is
practically on the Monaro tableland. If Canberra is such
a wretched place as The. Bulletin describes it to be, then
for the life of me I cannot see where all the difference
comes in as between Dalgety and Canberra. They are
both on the Monaro or southern tableland, their elevation
is about the same, viz., 2300 ft., their climate is absolutely
Similar, even to rainfall, and those who know the
localities will honestly admit that, whilst the Snowy-
River may- offer a better water supply, yet the Canberra
site possesses in the rivers adjacent a supply of almost
equal value.
This point, however, stands in favor of Canberra, viz.,
that the railway is already- constructed, and has been
made fit for express traffic right up to Queanbeyan.
As a matter of fact, I made the offer to Mr. John
Forrest whilst he was Acting-Premier of the Common-
wealth that, if the Federal Government would remove the
strong ground of objection in regard to expenditure on
the railway by making the cost of the railway extension
and improvement a matter of Federal concern, I would re-
submit the matter to the N. S. Wales Parliament and
support strongly the grant of the Dalgety site. The re-
signation of Mr. John Forrest shortly after caused the
matter to remain unconsidered.
I desire, however, to say this in conclusionythat in my-
own case, not once but repeatedly, the bracing, rarefied
air of the Kosciusko district, charged as it is with oxygen,
pure as it comes from the snow-fields of the mountains,
has done wonders for my health. Unfortunately the wind
knows how to blow in the same regions, and one has to
put up with some discomfort in the change of seasons,
in spring and autumn, from the tempestuous gales that
occasionally arise. Taken as a whole, the Monaro district
or the southern tableland has a climate both at Canberra
and on the Snowy River which will build up a strong and
hardy breed of men and women.
It is on the whole a cheering letter, though it
suggests a need for enlightenment on some points.
It seems, for instance, hardly worth worrying
about the weather of Dalgety, seeing that the
climate at Canberra is alleged to be just the same
sort of weather. Then the statement that the
rainfall is the same at both places has no bearing
on the case. The great fact is that Dalgety’s
Snowy River comes down from Kiandra, where
there is an average annual rainfall of 64in. to feed
it; while the Cotter, which is to be the great feature
of Canberra, is only 25 miles long and toddles
down from a region with a miserable 24in. rain-
fall. A city’s water supply doesn’t depend on the
rain that falls on the city itself, but on the rain
that -falls on the catchment area of its
river. As Mr. Carruthers cannot for the life of
him see where the difference between Dalgety and
Canberra comes in, this paper has great pleasure in
thus explaining. As for the statement that there is
very little prospect of making a railway to
Dalgety pay, well, if a railway won’t pay
when it connects with the only city in the
world which is the capital of a whole con-
tinent, and when that city is also fitted,
by reason of its abundant water power, to
be the greatest and cheapest manufacturing centre
in that continent, then a line to Sydney isn’t
likely to pay, and a railway connection with
Berlin or Birmingham is calculated to be a dead
loss. If the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners
really made that insane remark, then they have
an inability to look into the future which quite
unfits them for their positions. As regards the
fact that a railway would have to be con-
structed to Dalgety, that would be a draw-
back if the making of railways were a
misfortune and the existence of them a
thing to be deplored. Seeing, however, that they
are considered rather desirable than otherwise,
one might regard the selection of a capital site in
a region where its existence would lead to,
and justify, the building of one more line
as rather desirable than otherwise. Of course,
as Mr. Carruthers says, the Goulburn-
Coomk line would have to be improved, in
order that the railway to Dalgety would
be fit for express traffic, but it seems that
that necessity has arisen without any question of a
capital on the Snowy River; at least Mr. Car-
ruthers says that the work has been started, and
is already nearly half-finished. All the same, as
already remarked, it is a rather cheering letter.
The Great Dreadnought Bluff.
A dodge or lie or device or bluff or public job
which is more characteristic, perhaps, of the Aus-
tralian daily press than of any other among the
English-speaking peoples, is the dodge or lie or
bluff which it performs in the manufacture of
bogus public opinion. Bogus public opinion is a
remarkable thing. It arises through the seed of
impudence and falsehood being planted in the soil
of credulity, and the surface being manured with
lies and irrigated with bosh, there is sometimes a
fairly good harvest. The Yassberra capital ques-
tion was a case in point. Nobody save the Sydney
papers will gain a copper out of having the capital
at Yassberra with a port and naval base at Jervis
Bay. Sydney generally will lose through the com-
petition of a Federal rival port at its very door
and the diversion of the southern trade thereto.
The N.S.W. railway department will lose through
that same diversion of trade. It will be necessary in
the end to cede to the Commonwealth far more
territory than would have been necessary had the
capital been located at Dalgety, for in a badly
watered neighborhood like Yassberra 1000 square
miles will ultimately prove quite insufficient for
water catchment purposes, so again N.S.W. will
lose. Australia will lose by . haying an inferior
capital and an inferior naval port, when it might
have had a first-rate capital and port. But Yass-
berra is so near Sydney that the Sydney papers
will get there before the Melbourne ones, and it
is so near to Sydney that the Sydney papers will
be able to compete strongly for the local circula-
tion and advertising business even against a new
daily on the spot. So the Sydney papers de-
clared persistently that there was an immense
popular demand for Yassberra, till at last they
persuaded a herd or drove of time-serving
politicians that their only chance of re-election
lay in voting for the wretched spot. That
was a fine sample of the manufacture of
bogus public opinion, and a similar method is now
being adopted to boom the Dreadnought foolish-
ness. The S. M. Herald’s London correspondent
has declared, with brutal frankness that the
marine scare was merely Balfour’s hoax, got up
to push Asquith out of office. But all the same
the Dreadnought ghost is too valuable a bogey to
be dropped. It promises (1) to get titles for Some
people who want titles badly ; (2) to advertise
some people who want advertisement badly ; (3)
to shove the Fisher Government out of office ; (4)
to divert attention from the need for Australian
defence ; (5) to tie the finances in a knot which
will cause the postponement of the Northern Ter-
ritory transfer, and the building of the two trans-
continental railways, and a number of other
matters which should plainly be postponed till
Cook is in office, so that Cook may get the glory
thereof. So we find the papers spotted over with
the evidences of bogus or manufactured public
opinion like the following :
They say they want an appeal to the country if they
should he found in a minority over this question when
the House meets. Do these gentlemen not realise that
an appeal of the most effective kind is now being made
on this identical matter? In every part of Australia an
emphatic affirmation of the Dreadnought policy is being
publicly and privately made. Almost everyone outside
the mere officialdom of the Labor-Socialists is in favor.
And we should also remember that an app al like this is
of greater force by reason of its being kept free of other
confusing issues. . . . The idea originated with the
people ;it is being propagated by the people. In other
words, the very essence of theprincipal of popular appeal
is being applied to the movement. Is this why the Labor-
Socialists are so bitterly opposed to it?—Joseph Cook.
I regret that the Fisher Ministry should have taken
such a narrow view of the Dreadnought question! The
offer of Australia is not only wise and generous, but
politic.—Alfred Deakin.
Mr. Fisher has declared that he will not give a Dread-
nought. Then the sooner he is put out of office the
better. If Mr. Fisher still declines to carry out the pro-
posal after Parliament meets, it will he the duty of Mr.
Deakin and Mr. Joseph Cook to-consider what step is
desirable to give effect to the will and mandate of the
country.—John Quick.
All these are mere echoes of the daily paper
statements that the people of Australia are
craving—bellowing indeed —to give a Dread-
nought to the Old Ma Country, and that any
politician who opposes the popular will must go
down wallop at next election with the ruins of
public sentiment falling on top of him like the
wreckage of Messina. Yet, are the people
craving, howling, insisting on paying £2,000,000
(say 9s. 4d. per head) for ativ presentation Dread-
nought? If they are, the simple way to prove the
fact is for the people to pay. It is as easy for
them to send in the money to the Dreadnought
fund as to send it in later to a Federal taxation
department. The blessed fund has been open
long enough to allow of subscriptions coming in
from furthest-out Australia. And yet the result
is below £70,000. Leaving ou t five sensational sub-
scriptions or promises, it is below £25,000. The
Commonwealth’s population is set down at
4,299,188 people, so five persons have given or
promised £45,000 and 4,299,183 have given less
than £25,000. If an average is struck it comes to
this —that about 50,000 persons have declared
their desire to give a Dreadnought by the simple
process of paying their share, and 4,249,183 have
so far declined to have anything to do with the
matter. Where is the overwhelming public
opinion, and the alleged mandate and the alleged
‘•offer of Australia ” we hear so much about in the
daily papers and in the mouths of daily paper-
bossed politicians? The Fisher Government
should meet Parliament with a Referendum Bill,
and announce that the first use to which it will be
put will be to ascertain if there is really any
Dreadnought furore at all, or if the whole thing
is a monstrous hoax. The Referendum is a great
slayer of bogus public opinion.
4
On the Discrepancy between Wholesale and
Retail Prices.
Quite a number of persons have arisen lately in
Melbourne to remark on the incompetence of the
parties-who manage the city’s food supplies-4par-
ticularly those of fish, fruit, and vegetables. First,
the Political Labor Conference hurriedly circum-
navigated the subject, and opined that a Common-
wealth Commission should inquire into it. Then
the press remarked on the circumstance that cer-
tain Gippsland orchardists were feeding apples to
their pigs, because it didn’t pay to send the fruit
to market. Then Graham, Minister of Agricul-
ture, after telling how he had seen apples for
which he got lv>d. per lb. retailed at 6d. per lb.,
whereupon he grubbed out his 20 acres of
orchard, said that “something must be done.”
Just so. Likewise ditto. But what that some-
thing is nobody seems to have any idea.
It is indisputable that in regard to at least these
items of produce—fish, fruit, vegetables—the
producer gets half what he should, and the con-
sumer pays twice as much as he need do if the
system of distribution that Private Enterprise has
inaugurated were in a less crude and ramshackle
state, and if the private landlord didn’t take so
much of the profit. What is wanted is a large
wholesale market managed entirely by the City
Council, or preferably by a Greater Melbourne
Council, as agent, with smaller markets or dis-
tributing stores in each suburb where theconsunu r
could be attended to. Of course, all the consumers


wouldn’t and couldn’t attend these stores, but the
fact that a considerable number did so would
keep down prices in the shops to a reasonable
level. But Minister Graham’s idea of “doing
something ’’-apparently means the passing of an
Act or two with a view to assisting the export
trade to the advantage of both local and exporting
middleman, and to the disadvantage of the local
consumer. The Commonwealth Parliament has
in front of it more work than it can do in 20 years
—work that urgently needs doing—and, anyhow,
the organisation and management of such food
supplies as those mentioned is the proper busi-
ness of the municipal councils. Wherefore the
sooner Labor captures a majority of the metro-
politan councils—it has collared one already, and
has a good footing in several others—the sooner
will there be a chance to deal with this question.
♦
Wanted—Federal Control of Industrial
Legislation.
A match-maker writes :
About the beginning- of this year a couple of big British
match-making firms (Bell & 00. and Bryant & May Ltd.)
notified the Victorian Government that, in consequence
of the Australian tariff, they proposed to manufacture
matches in Victoria for the future. They asked for one
boon before erecting their factories and starting to
employ Australian workers in them at Australian wage-
rates. And it wasn’t one that was calculated to cost the
State anything either. They merely asked that the
State should prohibit the use of white phosphorus in the
making of matches within its boundaries, on the same
principle that the Commonwealth Government has pro-
hibited, after June next, the importation of matches con-
taining this awful substance.
Match-making with white phosphorus is one of the
deadliest of the dangerous trades of Europe. Since
when Lorinder, of Vienna, first drew the attention
of the medical profession to phosphorus necrosis in
lucifer-match makers, the use of phosphorus has, as Dr.
Oliver remarks, “ been followed by such an amount of
ill-health and suffering on the part of match-makers that
almost all the preventive measures which industrial
science and legislation could suggest, short of total pro-
hibition, have had a trial wit hout rendering the industry
completely safe.” As a result of a number of cases o'f
phossy jaw in London match factories some years ago,
a revision of the “Special Rules” imposed upon
manufacturers was undertaken by the Home Office.
Measures were fashioned to insure "adequate ventilation
of factories, and to provide for frequent dental examina-
tion and treatment of employees, and for the compulsory
use by them of mouth washes. Also mechanical con-
trivances for drawing the fumes of the phosphorus away
from the faces of the workers were installed broadcast.
But, in spite of these precautions and theconstant vigilance
of factory inspectors, “phossy jaw" has gone on doing
its deadly work in the United Kingdom. And now the
big match-manufacturing firms have come to the con-
nothing but the absolute stoppage of the use
of phosphorus in theirindustry will be of any avail But
as is natural, they don’t mean to start in Victoria or else-
where pledged against using phosphorus, only to find that
rival firms have no such scruples, and are employing the
cheap and deadly substance.
To their suggestion that Victoria shall bar the mur-
derous phosphorus in its factories, as is done in Den-
mark, which took that wise and humane step in the
interests of its workers many years ago, neither Bent nor
Murray has apparently any answer. A State Premier
hardly ever has in such circumstances. It affords yet
another example of the need of all industrial legislation
being controlled by the Commonwealth. Here are firms
of repute willing to give employment to manv hundreds
of Australian workers. And all the firms in question ask
is that the State shall take steps to ensure that that
employment will be carried on underthe healthiest possi-
ble conditions. The State has had the right path
indicated beforehand by the Federal legislation on
this question. Yet it remains quite cold and
disinterested in the matter. It is doubtful, anyhow
if a favorable answer from Victoria to the prospective
match manufacturers would, after all, produce satis-
factory results. There would still remain other States—
Tasmania, for example—whose chronic Toryism would
cause them to be the hunting ground of enterprises that
had been barred as against the public weal in other parts
of the Commonwealth. To Tasmania would proceed
phosphorus in hand, the manufacturer of matches who
was prevented from carrying on his awful concern in Vic-
toria or elsewhere. The only answer to the problem is
that the Australian Government should have full control
of industrial enterprises. It would be best in the long
run for both the enterprises and the people employed in
them. J
The Pro-Nigger Parson Again.
One of the knottiest problems which this publica-
tion has ever struck concerns the reason of the
frequent preacher’s craving to have foreign colored
people in Australia. It seems an incurable
craving, and is quite unaccountable except per-
haps on the ground of mental deficiency, or hypo-
crisy, or utter wickedness. There is, sad to say,
a Chinese society of some sort in Melbourne, and
at one of its functions, the other day, the usual
reverend individual spoke
He was sometimes impatient with the policy of a White
Australia. . . . Our White Australia policy could only be
defended as a temporary expedient. It could not last,
and he did not think the people wanted it to last. He
was looking forward to the time when our people would
be able to indulge what he might term the natural
British hospitality. (Applause.)
The remark about “ British hospitality ” is beauti-
fully parsonical. If hospitality consists in going
to live, uninvited, in the other fellow’s house, and
taking possession of the house, then the Briton is.
hospitable enough. He rules over about one-third
of the colored races of the world. He does that
simply because he conquered them and practised
the hospitality that consists in going to reside on the
other fellow’s premises. He ikeeps possession by
the simple process of declaring the colored man
unfit to enjoy the British citizen’s alleged right of
self-government, and by ranking him, in a political
sense, with the cow and the dog. He got Aus-
tralia in the same way as he got his other nigger
possessions; but since the original English settler-
died out and the Australian-born citizen took his.
place, this country has at least tried to do some-
part of its duty to the colored brother. He can.
have a vote and a share in the government of the
country the same as the white citizen, if he chooses,
to claim these privileges ; unfortunately his mental
status is so low that he doesn’t care to claim them.
The Australian-born is at least guiltless of that
form of British hospitality which consists in actu-
ally seizing your neighbor’s house and treating
your neighbor as an inferior animal because he was
the original owner of the house. But the average-
parson is at hearta hater of freedom and democratic
government, and a lover of tyranny and despotism ;
therefore he lies magnificently about these things,
and his perversions are marvellous. As for Aus-
tralia’s desire to avoid any admixture with colored
races from outside—well, Australia simply accepts
the warnings of history. It recognises that the
most backward nations of Europe are those with
the Asiatic or African taint—Russia, Turkey,
Greece and Southern Austria, with their Asiatic-
admixtures ; Southern Italy, Spain and Portugal,
with their African disease. Portugal was once
the most civilised kingdom of Europe, but some
crazy rulers took to importing African cheap
labor, and carried on the process till, in Lisbon
Jtself, negroes were quite as common as Europeans.
The black and white races intermarried, and now
Portugal is the most ignorant, backward, corrupt
<md hopeless country in Europe— a, country "where
even roads have almost vanished, and which is-
merely Haiti over again. The Australian has con-
sidered Russia, Turkey, Greece, Spain, Portugal,
Haiti, San Domingo, the Eurasian person of India
the people and ways of Egypt, Tripoli, Morocco!
Tunis, Guatemala, Honduras, San Salvador, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Columbia, Ecuador, Venezuela, Peru,
Brazil, and a whole lot of other partly-white and
partly-colored States. And for intelligence, pro-
gress, cleanliness, order, decency, and for every-
thing which makes man a desirable citizen these
places compare very badly with such countries as
Scandinavia, Denmark, Germany, Britain, France,
Holland, Belgium, etc., which have kept their
white blood clean. Therefore, Australia has re-
solved to keep itself among the white nations, and
nobody really objects save a few dreadful parsons
like the one quoted above. Whether a certain kind
of parson wants to start this country on the road
which Haiti and Portugal have followed because
that kind of parson is the most unutterably
wicked person in the community, or because he
is the worst mental degenerate in the com-
munity, the Australian democrat doesn’t exactly
know, nor does he greatly care. But when
he is asked why he doesn’t go to church the
answer is easy. A larger proportion of parson
than of any other olass in the community has
devoted itself heart and soul to the work of drag-
ging Australia down to the level of Haiti or Cuba
by mixing the white race with the black. Parsons
have toiled in a strangely numerous way for the
promotion of national degeneracy, and even those
of their brethren who have devoted themselves to
the national cause haven’t repudiated the horrible
kind of parson with the scorn and loathing that
they should have shown if they desired to keep
themselves clean before the world. So the aver-
age good democrat doesn’t go to church. To him
the nigger labor parson, who toils to bring Aus-
tralia down to the status of Honduras or Tripoli,
who borrows the sacred name of Got) for his evil
work, and who falsifies history in his craving to
be always pro-nigger and anti-Australian, is too
low to be worth contempt and too cheap to even
call for active loathing. The only thing is to keep
away from him and his desecrated fane, and if
possible to avoid burial in the same paddock with
him, lest the General Resurrection of the dead
should find that good democrat in bad company.
The Only Way.
Equine ” writes: —
General Hoad’s shocked query last week as to what
steps Australia was taking to provide itself with the
military horses it will assuredly need within the next few
years has caused the Anti-Sosh press to ponder some-
what. The Sydney Telegraph admitted (21/4/’O9) the
appalling' dearth in N.S.W. of animals suitable for re-
mount purposes, and then essayed to explain the phe-
nomenon. It said:—
“ With the cutting up of the big estate, a process which
has gone on especially in districts suitable for this form
■of culture, has come the small man, who needs a quicker
turnover for his labor than the horse affords. The uncer-
tainty which exists as to standards is another discourag-
ing circumstance. Different remount officers have
•different ideas, so that the bewildered farmer is driven to
leave the horse alone, and give his attention to products
for which he has a wider market scope."
And then it went on to propound the remedy :
“ But, no doubt, all these would prove transient difficul-
ties in the face of a determined effort to make Australia
the great source of supply of the Empire’s needs in horse-
flesh. We have the climate and the soil. The rest is a
question of price and stability of market.”
It is a characteristically inaccurate and vague and un-
satisfactory pronouncement. Even assuming that any
number worth mentioning of big horse-producing estates
had been cut up—which is, unfortunately, not the ease
—that would not account for the state of things which
the Telegraph deplores. As a fact, the same land-
owners who bred general utility horses a decade ago are
breeding them now. There are enough brumbies and to
spare running loose on the broad acres of Outback. The
trouble is that the animals are a different class from their
ancestors of 10 years back. The old-time Australian steed
had a character to lose, so to speak. It stood high in the
•estimation of horsey men the world over. The
modern equine bears the name at home and abroad
of being a degenerate. The foreign buyer has started
to sniff loudly at it. So has the * local military
man. And with good cause. Assuredly the average up
•country Australian horse of to-day is the poorest,
weediest, straightest-shouldered, leggiest burlesque
going. The explanation is well known to every
man interested in the horse-breeding business through-
out the Commonwealth. The serviceable steed is
not here, for the most part, because it or its
potential sire or dam have been shipped away to Japan
or to Java or to South Africa, or to India. For years
past, whenever and wherever a decent weight-carrier has
projected its ears over the landscape, it has been coralled
•and sold overseasj And so the fit have been weeded out
and the unfit remain.
It should be too plain for serious argument that unless
•this insane business is forcibly stopped, and that at once,
Australia’s already moribund horse-supply will fall utterly
•dead. Loud, general demands that “ determined efforts’”
•shall be made to make Australia “the great source of supply
of the Empire’s needs in horse flesh ” cut no ice. There
•are but two directions in which “determined efforts”
can be of avail, viz., (1) the imposition of the export
duty above mentioned, and (2) the establishment of State
horse-farms; and both of them have been roundly
damned by the Telegraph and other sheets of its political
way of thinking—the first as Protection, the second as
Socialism. The Labor Government’s scheme of a Com-
monwealth horse-breeding establishment received a warm
pat On the back from the allegedly Anti-Sosh Evening
News on the afternoon of the day the Telegraph made
its plaint. Said the News :
“ In any case, as regards this question of supply for the
Commonwealth military forces, the breeding should be
carried out systematically, and not by individuals, each
with his own notion of what constitutes a horse suitable
for the service. And for this reason, among others, it is
probable that a State enterprise of the sort suggested by
the Minister would prove the most successful scheme of
any. The business is strictly a Federal one ; one, too,
that cannot be begun too soon. It takes five years to
make a horse fitted for military work—saddle or draught.
But once the breeding is in full swing, the supply would
be constant. Also, if necessary, the boarding-out plan
might be introduced in order to provide for a reserve
always at band. To relj 7 anj' longer on private sources
for the horsing of men and material is evidently out of
the question. Indeed, it is difficult to see what other
conclusion the Board just appointed to report on the sub-
ject can arrive at, other than to support the plan of a
State horse farm. Properly established and conducted,
it should, in due course, not only be able to fulfil all
military needs, but, in addition, form a source of con-
siderable profit, and thus be self-supporting, if not
actually revenue-producing.”
But a Commonwealth horse-breeding establishment,
invaluable as it is going to be in its way, can’t cope with
the whole of Australia’s horse trouble. The root of it
lies in the widespread habit that has grown on country
horse-breeders of regarding every likely-looking hack or
hunter up to twelve sLone or over as a candidate for “ the
East.” Nothing but a smashing impost on every horse
sent abroad will cure that. When that bit of legislation
is put on the statute books, and a little more attention
paid by the States to the class of entire that roams the
country, the Australian horse should begin to be
in point of quality as well as numerousness the
same animal it was in the years that have
flown. Apropos , it was State interference that
made the English horse. In Henry VIII.’s time the
English Government took violent measures by slaying all
stallions that were below a certain standard of excellence,
and passing large and furious laws to prevent the export
and encourage the import of good breeding stock. So
the English steed, after ages of degeneracy, was lifted
almost in a day from being a stunted and grotesque weed
to the status of the finest equine in Europe. It wasn’t a
“determined ” and promiscuous “ effort ” of the kind the
Sydney Telegraph demands which did it, but State
Interference of the most reckless character.
In re Anti-Socialism, and the Fraudulence
Thereof.
Sydney Telegraph published this item recently :
In the course of a brief report to a meeting of the
Turori Shire Council concerning the late Shires’ Con-
ference in Sydney, Cr. H. C. Suttor, president, said the
chief tendency throughout the proceedings was to milk
the Government cow. He thought, however, that if they
tried to milk her too much she would kick, and instead
of giving them more grants, would compel them to put
on more taxation.
The Turon Shire’s president is one of Bathurst’s
big landowners and an earnest Anti-Socialist.
The above extract from his report is noteworthy
as epitomising the attitude of the typical Anti-
Socialist (so-called) towards the thing that his
kind asserts must cause homes, religions and soon
to burst asunder and fly in pieces. It amounts to
a cynical admission that, in hard practice, there
is nothing whatever in the creed of Anti-Socialism ;
and that, in fact, the strivings after G. Reid’s
Tiger on the part of any self-respecting Anti-
Sosh Shire Council should only halt at the
stage where it is morally certain that the
monster will turn round and, figuratively, rend
those who are trying to borrow money from it.
Anti-Socialist SuTTOßdoesn’t pretend to reprobate
the milking of the State cow on ethical grounds.
A.nd indeed if he did he would be laughed at by
his fellow Anti-Socialists for his pains. The only
point he makes in his plea for moderation in this
regard is that the animal has about reached the
kicking stage. This attitude is not peculiar to
the sort of Anti-Socialist who belongs to shire
councils. It is to be found on all sides. Bathurst,
for example, boasts one of the biggest Agricul-
tural, Horticultural and Pastoral Shows in N.S.W.
Ninety per cent, of the show committee-men
would describe themselves on any given Federal
or State polling-day as “ Anti-Socialist to the
backbone,” and would vote accordingly. Yet
there is no day—polling-day not excepted—on
which they aren’t cheerfully prepared to cadge all
the State assistance that is going for the institution
which so effectively booms their town. And if there
were talk of the £ for £ subsidy which is now
given to the Show by the State, being withdrawn
in order that an opportunity might be accorded it
of flourishing in an atmosphere of pure Bruce
Smith individualism, there would arise a howl of
Anti-Socialist agony and protest of such volume
as to be clearly audible in Bourke. The Bathurst
School of Arts gets generous help from the
Government. About the only ground for serious
complaint that the sturdy Anti-Socialists who
control the Bathurst School of Arts have against
Wade is that Wade doesn’t supply their institu-
tion with more Sosh than he does. And so with
the Hospital. There is never a word of protest
from the allegedly Anti-Socialist directors of
it against the morality-sapping system by
which the Hospital is permeated from roof
to cellar with the Sosh menace. On the
contrary. The only fear those in authority
have is lest any fragment of Sosh should be
withdrawn from them; and their main hope
lies in the direction of more of the so-called
calamity coming their way. From its municipal
gasworks to its gaol, and from its gardens, with
their free band recitals, to its State-owned rail-
way station, Bathurst is riddled through and
through with State Socialism. Most of the
better-paid officials connected with these enter-
prises would take it as an insult if anyone called
them other than Anti-Socialists. Withal there is
not one that does not long to see all the Sosh
that is going hurled at the particular concern
with which he is connected. It would be interest-
ing to hear the views of a Freetrader on a Pro-
tectionist who advocated a wholesale lowering of
duties; also it would be diverting to read the Tele-
graph or other Anti-Sosh sheet the morning after it
had discovered a Laborite who clamored for the
denationalising of the tramway or railway services
of the State. Yet prominent Anti-Socialists are
doing as contradictory things as these all over the
country. Can it be a matter of surprise that the
constituencies refused at last Federal elections to
regard the Anti-Sosh question seriousjy, and that
they give clear indications of not meaning to
regard it seriously at the coming struggle ? One
of the first rules of the electioneering game is
that, when a man sets up a fiscal or economical
doctrine for polling-day assailment, and denounces
it on and in the immediate neighborhood of that
day as a menace and a curse and a tiger, and so
forth, that he shall at least affect between whiles
to believe that it is the calamity he says it is, and
treat it accordingly. Most of N.S.W.’s bogus
Anti-Socialists don tdo that. Having feverishly
chased the thing that they claim to believe means
damnation during a period of two years nine
months and some odd weeks, they seem to con-
sider they have done their duty by their principles
if they rail at it for the matter of a fortnight or so.
The morning papers provide the public with a lot
of valuable ignorance at times. For instance, the
Sydney Telegraph got off a very old lie in its
leading article of April 28—a lie that was supposed
to be dead when the myth of Mrs. Tozer’s maid
perished :
The Federal Government, bars out anyone coming under
a contract which guarantees him employment.
Now in 1907 (the last year for which returns were
published) 972 immigrants came into Australia to
do manual labor under contract, and not one con-
tract laborer was refused admission. As for actors,
preachers, musicians, and every kind of contract
worker who isn’t strictly a manual laborer, they
come in unquestioned, and nobody even keeps a
record of them. The Telegraph knows these
things, but the habit which the importers’ organ
has of wholesale and retail lying, to the detriment
of its country, is apparently past cure. There is
in Australia still a remnant of that Tory Free-
trade importing gang which used to hold that any
lie, slander or misrepresentation was justifiable so
long as it was a lie or slander directed against
Australia. The theory of the infamous mob of
wealthy hooligans which created the old Stinking
Fish'party was that mud covereth a multitude of
sins so long as it was mud thrown at the fair fame
of their own country. And apparently Stinking
Fish will never feel the want of an outlet for its
muddy feelings while the Telegraph remains on
deck.
11 ——
An angry man from Melbourne :
Vic. railway boss Tait has got another sizeable trouble
on bis hands. This concerns the Brighton electric tram-
way, which is at present a good counterfeit of the road to
ruin, or at least a road in ruins. This line was built and
run for a while by electrical expert Bradford, who was
subsequently pushed out of it. The Department said he
didn’t understand his business, and put its own expert
in charge. An inquiry exonerated him in so far as the
inquirers could lay their hands on the evidence that was
very shy of coming, and now Bradford is claiming a large
sum from the Government as compensation and so forth.
Apparently Tait and his expert are trying to show a
more economical management of the concern than Brad-
ford by starving the line. Wherefore the Brighton
council lately called the Canadian’s attention to the fact
that the sleepers were almost bare of asphalt—the line
runs along the beach road—and that the upstanding rails
would be effective as a paddock fence, but were
not an ornament to a carriage-way. Tait’s first
answer was to inform the mayor that he “wouldn’t
have every Tom, Dick, and 'Harry interfering in
his business,” but the council pointed out that, as
guarantors with St. Kilda of the interest on the cost of
the line, and as trustees of the road over which Tait ran
his trams, the matter was distinctly its business. Tait’s
expert thereupon interviewed Brighton’s mayor and
spoke him softly, saying that the Commissioners were
having trouble with Bradford aforesaid, and wished to
avoid comparisons that would be made if they incurred
further immediate expenditure on maintaining the per-
manent way. Also the expert soothingly assured
the mayor that Tait wished the interview to
be considered private, but the mayor sarcasti-
cally replied that, being a public man and not
any Tom, Dick or Harry, he wasn’t taking any
privacy ; and he didn’t. The episode suggests that Tait’s
policy seems to have been to cause a bungle and muddle
of the only electric line he has to manage, and then, when
he found comparisons were likely to be made of his
management and Bradford’s, to attempt to save his face
by underhand methods. Taking it all round, it looks as
if the Murray Government might do worse than com-
mission electrician Bradford to transform the St. Kilda
and Port Melbourne lines into electrical systems. If he
made a success of them he could then be told to bog in
some more.
• ‘ ♦
Though they are superfluous enough, Heaven
knows, Federal Ministers keep on pointing out
additional reasons for the speedy impost of a dis-
ruptive land tax. Lately, Defence Minister
Pearce told the Horshamites, of Victoria, that
while in 1906 Victoria had 12,930,250 acres held in
blocks of over 1000 acres each, by 1908 the evil of
great estates had increased to such an extent that
the properties of over 1000 acres each aggregated
13,057,911 acres. This happened during the very
years when Bent was supposed to be buying up
large estates and settling people on the land. The
same day Attorney-General Hughes casually in-
formed the citizens of Benalla that, though in the
Cold Country the wealthy classes paid £60,000,000
of taxation to the general public’s £68,000,000, in
Australia Fat paid only £3,000,000 out of a total
£14,000,000. Which, seeing that the defence of a
country is needed quite as much for Fat’s pro-
perty as his person, and seeing that the poor man
has little, if any, property to defend, are addi-
tional reasons why Fat should be taxed for defence
purposes. If he kicks, he can be told to soothe
himself with the reflection that we are but
following England’s example.
—-♦
Sydney Sunday Times, which has had a pretty
severe attack of Dreadnausea during the past
month, but is now experiencing a falling tempera-
ture and convalescence generally, fell over its own
argumentative feet, as it were, frequently during
the trouble. For instance, after howling rabidly
that Australia should “ give the grand old Mother
Country a Dreadnought,” and be dashed well
ashamed of itself for not emulating Maoriland’s
magnificent offer of “ two Dreadnoughts, or more
if necessary,” it blandly printed (25/4/’O9) the fol-
lowing :
According to the information of German experts, the
weakness of the British naval programme for the year lies
in its failure to provide trained crews to man the new
battleships. The opinion prevails here that while Britain
possesses a magnificent fleet, built of the finest material
and equipped in every respect in accordance with the
necessities of modern warfare, she has not the trained
crews to man them. ...
It is thought here that every new battleship laid doivn
by Britain is practically useless unless provision be made
at the same time to train the full complement otcrews to
handle them under war conditions.
Immense sums devoted to new Dreadnoughts are,
therefore, regarded as so much waste, because no pro-
vision has been made to supply the men whose efficiency
transforms them into useful weapons of war.
And, having starred that bit of news, the afflicted
sheet went on to feverishly clamor that Australia
shouldn’t help Britain where help is most needed
— i.e., by training sailors who may be of use when
trouble comes—bu*should hurl at the embarrassed
old Motherland a vessel which it doesn’t want,
and which, if the above extract is correct, it won’t
be able to man if it gets the article.
♦ T
In one State at any rate—Westralia—the Com-
monwealth and local electoral offices are working
in harmony, and whacking costs. And there are
various good points about Westralian electoral
management, too. The office happened to get
hold of a man with up-to-date ideas, or a man
with up-to-date ideas happened, to get hold of the -
office ; and among other things he introduced the
card system. Everybody who becomes an elector
signs two cards. One is kept in the district, the
other goes to the head-office. Electors are often
on the track in Westralia, and the man who is in
Yilgarn to-day is probably in York next week.
When he gets to York the chances are that
he will apply to go on the roll there, and won’t
mention that he was a Yilgarn elector hitherto ;
in fact, if he hasn’t actually voted there he may
disremember all about it. So he signs two more
cards, and when one goes down to the head office
it bumps against the same Yilgarn ticket.
Then the Yilgarn office is informed, and the name
is removed from the roll there. Thus the rolls
are to a great extent automatically revised, and
The Worms of Empire,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
The worms that eat an empire down
Are busy eating now,
And soon they’ll claim as lawful prey
The broad Imperial brow ;
The tresses once with vict’ry crowned
Shall flout the breeze no more,
And all the powers of cold decay
Feast on her dying core.
The worms that eat an empire down—
High Hand and Callous Greed —
They’ve gnawed the nation’s heart away,
And spoilt a gallant breed ;
The manly stock is now a tale
Of ages past and gone,
And only shadowy legends still
And shadowy men live on !
The worms that eat an empire down—
To-day, as oft of yore.
They feed on many a morsel rare,
On many a league of shore ;
They feed them fat on gallant hearts
That vainly beat and bled—
The Veldt, the Hills of Hindostan—
How well they know the dead !
The worms that eat an empire down
They bite our breast to-day,
And somp they spring from this our soil
And some from foreign clay ;
But, be they bred of alien earth
Or sprung from native lust,
Right surely shall they raze and bring
Our glories in the dust.
The worms that eat an empire down,
We feel their presence here;
And though we curse their toil afar
We heed it not a-near;
And so the tresses vict’ry-crowned
Shall flout the breeze no more,
And all the powers of cold deeay
Feast on our dying core !
■QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Filins
W FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Piotures and Machines at your
Door. We are Agents for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 Ceorg-e Street,
near 6.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
The wisdom which sparkles so brightly in
Lloyd George’s equitable taxation proposals in-
dicates the illuminating inspiration of D.C.L.
Whisky. Continued judicious resort to the
scholarly brand, and tariff reform must follow
these humane revenue-raising methods. Pro-
gressive legislation follows the amber light of
D.C.L. like a phosphorescent gleam in the sea of
political wisdom.*
the large opportunity that existed for dummying
under the old system is blown out, for Smith can
no longer vote for himself at one booth and for the
departed Brown in another booth, simply because
the departed Brown’s name has been swept off
that list.
The Cabbage Garden Woman Goes into
Politics.
Melbourne, especially suburban Melbourne,
hardly knew itself on Saturday last, after 1 frm.,
when the Saturday half-holiday came into force*
The shops had been open till 10 the previous
evening, and apparently everyone had accepted
the new order of things, so in the closing hours o
the week Smith-street, Collingwood, and Chapel-
street, P’ran—once the happy hunting-ground of
the woman with the pramful of mixed baby and
vegetables, or of the family out to buy Jimmy a
new suit, or Jennie a pair of shoes—were as
deserted as the paths of righteousness. Only here
and there a belated Tory declaimed against this
“ gross interference with the liberty of the sub-
ject,” or a procrastinating housewife hammered
on locked doors, in the vain hope that they
would open of themselves. Melbourne had,
without a murmur, accepted an order of things
that 10 years ago would have caused a Rich Land-
lord to jump on his belltopper in the middle of
Bourke-street. But female suburbia was a very
angry aggregate nevertheless, and for good
reason. The Woman’s Suffrage Bill was sent to
England for King Ned’s signature months ago,
and Premier and Chief Sec. Murray knew as well
as the next man that it would be signed all right,
but he made no preparations for enrolling the
women. Consequently, when the Bill’s accept-
ance was notified a month back, the women voters
were told to go and take out rights—after the
stupid, cumbersome State plan-i-before May 1 if
they wished to be able to vote. Most of them did
wish. Now on the last week of April there is
always a rush of dilatory male vote-seekers, and
when, on top of this little crowd, came almost the
whole adult female population of Melbourne—the
country woman hasn’t wakened up yet—the hap-
less electoral registrars nearly lost their wits in a
vain attempt to cope with the demand. Day
after day on that last week crowds of weary and
angry women stood, 500 strong at times, on
verandahs and footpaths outside the offices,
often in the rain, waiting with amazing
patience to get the “right” to vote. It
was a pity the Rich Landlords hadn’t been
at hand to get an answer to their declarations
that women didn’t want the vote. Of
course the supplies of forms speedily ran out.
The printing office got to work with a rush, but
even when the books were available, the hapless
registrars were told to come into the city and
get them—the Department was so busy it
couldn’t spare a messenger to take them to a
parcel van. Finally, on Friday, Premier Murray
perceived that-something ought to be done, so the
town halls were converted into registry offices,
and every available officer was run out to help the
registrars. Even then there was a block, and
mayors and councillors swore themselves in as
assistant registrars and took a hand. And still
they couldn’t cope with the rush ! So
Murray decided to extend the time for
another month, trusting to Parliament to
validate his illegal action. Doubtless this was
the best thing he could do under the
circumstances, but it was partly through this very
caper of doing illegal acts and trusting to Parlia-
ment to validate them that Bent came to grief.
Anyhow, though Parliament may validate this
one act, it should emphatically tell Murray that
(1) he ought to have made preparation before-
hand ; (2) that with the example of Tasmania
before him he should at once take steps to use the
Federal rolls ; (3) that the longer he delays doing
so the more money he is throwing away; and
Victoria has no cash to spare at present (except
for Dreadnoughts). Finally, it might inform him
that the Tories who said women did not want
votes are asses.
The failure of the N.3.W. Wade Government to
securely “jug” Tom Mann for five years was a
national misfortune in more ways than one. In
the first place Mann is a blatant banger of chains
and exhorter to “arise,” who does the Labor
party in Australia incalculable harm ; for although
he is not of it, and is opposed to all its methods,
the party has to carry the burden of his frothy,
loud-mouthed foolishness. He is the sort of im-
possible mountebank whose only hope of doing
any good is to martyred by imprisonment or exe-
cution ; and apparently he is not anxious to do
good that way. If he had been convicted, his
enforced absence from mischief-making would have
done the Labor party a great benefit, and by the
time he came out he might have been forgotten. On
the other hand, while he was in gaol he might have
done the Wade gang considerable harm, whereas
by getting off he merely made it look foolish. His
arrest was a high-handed piece of tyranny, and
his imprisonment would have been a moral burden
that would have broken the back of even Wade’s
camel-like crowd. Therefore Mann might have
had two advantages in gaol; he might have
extinguished Wade, and he might have been
extinguished himself. It is hard to say which
extinguishment would have been better for the
country. Mann is opposed to legal arbitration,
to parliamentary reform, to everything but the
strike as a means of industrial redress.
And the strike is a two-edged weapon,
which, while it may destroy the tyrant,
usually kills the individual who wields it.
All the strikes in the world won’t make the toiler
anything else but a toiler, though they may,
under almost impossible circumstances, make
him a more affluent toiler. Always he will be a
wage slave; whereas by legislation he may be
elevated to be a partner and a profit-sharer. By
bungling his defence Mann had one glorious
opportunity to do some real good ; but he care-
fully refrained from bungling his defence, and
hired all sorts of excellent counsel to prevent him
taking advantage of his one beautiful opportunity.
“ 0.K.” writes
Rev. It. Gwynne—brother of the London Standard
editor —lias come out to Australia with a scheme
for irrigating this largely-unpopulated continent with
a small stream of English emigrants. His idea is
to ship 15-year-old boys—orphans or otherwise—
who shall be trained for a year “on the land” in Eng-
land before being sent out under apprenticeship (fur
three years) to farmers in the Commonwealth. Further-
more, Rev. Gwynne talks of pushing the British Govern-
ment to advance a sum of £50,000 a year to work the
scheme, with a view, presumably, to getting the money
refunded through some process of Government control on
this side. He promises that the boys, selected at 14
years of age for exportation twelve months later, will
he “healthy and sturdy”—not gutter-bred weaklings
with a moral and physical inaptitude for agricultural
work. So far, so good.
The fact that the Rev. R. Gwynne is an ardent Im-
perialist as well as a humanitarian, and that he naturally
dreams of supplying Australia with a fresh infusion of
Imperial sentiment by planting English-born lads upon
the land, need not alarm the anti-Dreadnought majority
of Australian nationalists. A boy of 14 who, in booking
himself for emigration to the Antipodes, mentally begins
to identify himself with the land he is bound for, is
already in a fair way to absorb its sentiment. When he
gets there, and breathes its atmosphere, his mind must
inevitably form itself on Australian lines. He brings no
adult prejudices, no deep-rooted regrets, no bitter
memories, no insufferable insular airs of superiority. The
imported British man may settle down into a philo-
sophical Australian and a sympathetic parent of native-
born children; but, as a rule, he is apt to be a very
biassed person—one way or other —all his life. If he
suffered a bad time in his birthland, and has done well for
himself in the new country, he libels the old country in
speaking always of the seamy side of its life, whereas, if
his experiences have been the reverse of these, he girds
at Australia with the vehemence of a remittance man,
who is the most obnoxious type of “Imperialist” this
country is afflicted with. The one lacks a leaven of
rational Imperial sentiment, and has no proper regard for
the privileges of his wide-spread native language. The
other is anti-Australian, and therefore an anti-imperialist,
notwithstanding his wearisome adoration of the Mother
Country and the dear old Flag.
If this country must get emigrants, it can’t do better
than get them from Britain. And it should encourage
every opportunity to get them young wherever they come
from. The lads that Mr. Gwynne talks of shipping to
Australia would grow with its growth, and having been
bent in their twig period of development towards an
Australian career, they wouldn’t be bent on returning to
England in the future, like the matured Englishman who
leaves old associations behind him. In short, the Rev.
Gwynne, in his harmless, ardent Imperialism, proposes to
dot the land with potential landowners who would have
no impelling force of curiosity as regards a “ trip ’Ome,”
and no desire to become absentees. Meanwhile he will
be glad to hear from “ farmers and employers of labor ”
with reference to his project, and his postal address is the
Melbourne Club.
♦ -
Melbourne's new central station won’t be fin-
ished for months, yet already the public begins to
suffer from that lack of foresight that is the curse
of all things created. The original idea was to
have one central station, abolishing Princes
Bridge terminus, and converting Spencer-street
into a suburban stopping place. There seems to
be a curious idea in Australia that all the traffic of
a big city should be worked from one station,
hence Sydney’s Redfern monstrosity; so Mel-
bourne, having accidentally avoided that evil, was
anxious to undo its sensible act, and get into the
same state of congestion as its neighbor. (Inci-
dentally, when Glasgow was just a shade larger
than Sydney or Melbourne it worked its railway
business from five terminii, and thus gave its trains
a certain amount of elbow room.) Very soon after
coming to this resolve Melbourne realised that it
was something extra of an ass. First of all,
it found that Spencer-street couldn’t be
spared, and that idea dropped with a thud. Then
Princes Bridge was found to be absolutely neces-
sary for the Heidelberg-Preston-Collingwood and
the Gippsland and Great Southern traffic. Already
it is overcrowded with this ever-increasing busi-
ness, while the Central—late Flinders-street—is
during the busy hours, a struggling, seething mass
of swearing humanity. Also the ramps and sub-
ways are too small, and they all empty into
Flinders-street, where the lorries, drays, parcel-
vans, trams, etc., already make foot-traffic a fleeting
spasm and a wild hysteria. Heaven only knows
how matters can be remedied. The big station
can be extended by building it on piles over the
Yarra, or it can be lengthened under Swanston-
street and “ the Bridge ” made part and parcel of
the one station. Also new subways can be put
right under Flinders-street so as to bring the
importer out at his office door in the Lane. But
that is an awkward solution at the best. The fact
is that the whole Congested Population system is
coming, home to roost. In the first place N.S.W.
and Victoria have a volume of trade that is
quite out of proportion to their population.
They have gone to vast and absurd expense to
drag all this trade to Sydney and Melbourne
respectively. Having got it there, the next
ambition was to take it all to one railway station,
so thiit when it emerged from the station it might
all rush down one street and raise Sheol. And
when the natural consequences of this policy
come along, great astonishment supervened.
S. M. Herald (23/4/’O9) explained why N.S.W.
banks are sitting rather tightly on their cash bags
just now. Here is some of the explanation :
If a man has a property worth, say, £lO,OOO, and he
commits himself, without consulting his banker, to an
additional area that is to cost him another £5OOO, he
cannot be surprised if he finds that the money is not
forthcoming, good as is the security offering. A year or
so ago th£re was a feeling among the more thoughtful of
financial men that the pace was becoming a little too
fast. Producers were beginning to take up land beyond
their capacity to effectively work it. They were paying
prices which at times were regarded as beyond its pro-
ductive value over a series of years, on the basis of
average prices. This sort of thing might have been
allowed to proceed too far, and, if it were only properly
recognised, the country is really indebted to those
bankers who were wise enough to call a halt.
This suggests one thing pretty clearly—that a lot
of the land settlement about which N.S.W.
Government has been skiting so loudly of recent
times wasn’t real settlement at all. It was merely
land-grabbing by existing landowners who reckoned
their names were good at the banks, and who
were so darned greedy that they were willing to
pay (or owe) any old price for land “beyond their
capacity to effectively work.” In other words,
they wanted the land just to sit on while waiting
for unearned increment at the expense of the
genuine land-seeker. Also, the Herald’s remarks
make it plain that the sooner tbe Federal Pro'
gressive Land Tax happens the better—it wil
help to knock out the “ prices that are beyond the
land’s productive value,” and the person who
monopolises land which he cannot “effectively
work.” Meanwhile, as the Herald remarks,
perhaps the country is really indebted to the
bankers who are putting their feet down on the
land-speculation process.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “ An Englishman’s Home.”
Criterion “Lucky Durham.”
Palace “In the Ranks.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Centenary Hall Bengough (May 6 and 8).
. MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sunday.”
King’s “The Man from Outback.”
Theatre Royal “ The Girl Behind the Counter.”
Princess’s “Sweet Kitty Bellairs.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Bioscope.
“ After the Opera,” a brilliant little play
of the Grand Guignol type, was staged at Sydney
Royal on Saturday night. It lasts less than half
an hour. Yet into that brief space is crammed
the tragedy of four lives. Like so many modern
French dramatic works, its construction is well-
nigh perfect. Each incident leading up to the
denouement dovetails into the next with con-
vincing precision, The adaptor has translated
the jargon of the Fauborg into that of Mayfair
with admirable skill. It is a faithful picture in
miniature of an easily-conceivable happening in
modern life, and, as such, is full of artistic value.
Lady Lulu Devas, a rake with an elderly
husband, wishes for a liason with Captain Follett.
The three return to the Devas’ home from the
opera. The husband is called away on business.
Lady Lulu prevails on Follett to come back to her
when the domestic coast is clear. Follett is willing
to “bolt,” as he puts it, but resists her suggestion of
an intrigue. However, since man is but human,
he is on the point of yielding when a sound is
heard in the passage outside. The guilty pair
jump to the conclusion that Devas is there.
Follett would stay and see the thing - through, but
Lady Lulu fears what she calls “the scandal,”
and drives him out. The door opens. A burglar
creeps in. The rays of his dark lantern rest on
the jewels the speechlessly-horrified woman is
wearing. He closes with her, strangles her, and
robs the body. Meanwhile, Follett has dropped
into the street below, and the arms of the police. •
As he is explaining, desperately, Devas appears.
He has missed his train. Bewilderment and horror
dawn in Follett’s eyes. If not Devas, then, who is it
that is with Lady Lulu ? Frenziedly he urges the
others into the house. They find the dead
woman, but her assassin is gone. In the midst of
his anguish Devas is shaken with a gust of rage
and jealousy against Follett. In a powerful
scene he accuses the latter of the murder. Just
here the burglar is dragged in. He has confessed.
Maddened at being cheated of his revenge, Devas
shoots at Follett, but his arm is struck up ; and
the curtain falls.
■* * * *
The acting of “ After the Opera ” is up to the
play’s high dramatic level. Miss Ola Humphrey’s
Lady Lulu Devas is in appearance the typical
cosmopolitan “smart” woman that may be seen
at any great European or American restaurant,
any night; and she portrays the neurotic unbal-
anced temperament of a species of that sort of
woman with a sure touch. The Follett of Cyril
Mackay is a skilful creation. In a host of
invidious situations he does not jar once. Henry
Kolker is impressive as Devas ; and the minor
parts are soundly acted. “After the Opera”
will precede “An Englishman’s Home” till
further notice.
** * *
On which subject “D.” adds this note: —
Assuming that “After the Opera” was a Grand Guig-
nol play in its native French, itis interesting to speculate
on the changes it has undergone in the process of being
rendered fit for British consumption. Probably its
original name was “ Aprbs le Bal de l’Op6ra.”
The orchestra plays “Valse Caressante” as the
curtain rises, and Lady Lulu says “The music
has got into my blood,” “ Valse Caressante” is not the
sort of item that is supplied at the opera in Paris,
or elsewhere. It was, however, a few years hack
a regular feature of the “Bal de l’Opbra,” the
“Bal Tabarin,” “Maxims,” the “Rat Mort,” and
other places where fair women and merry men
foregathered. In a Grand Guignol production the
lover would not have successfully resisted the wife’s
blandishments. Modern French playwrights don’t credit
the existence of Josephs in their midst. In the Gallic
version the lover would have “ fallen ” decisively, and
soon. He would have made his escape, in all likelihood,
in an inadequately clothed state. Above all (at the
Grand Guignol), the tragedy would have been
made complete. The Gaul doesn’t believe in spar-
ing the feelings of His audiences. He loves to
send them home in a thoroughly harrowed state.
Therefore in Paris the real murderer would not,
I think, have been discovered. None hut the ragingly-
jealous husband would have dreamed that the unlucky
philanderer were other than blood-guilty. The final
picture would either have shown the Parisian equivalent
of Follett dead, slain in despair by his own hand ; or else
displayed him manacled and on his way to certain death
at the blade of the guillotine. They present these pro-
blems in more ghastly, and also, possibly, more lifelike
fashion in France.
** * *
No abatement is discernible in the public
interest that is taken in “Jack and Jill ” and
their doings, at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. The
said interest is almost as overwhelming as the
daily papers averred, a few brief weeks back, that
the (general) enthusiasm on behalf of Mayor
Taylor’s Dreadnought Fund was; and it is in-
finitely more enduring. Jack’s mother will cap-
size backwards out of her rocking-chair, to the
intense gratification of all present, till further
notice.
#* # *
“ In the Ranks ” is going strong and well
at Sydney Palace. In mitigation of the some-
what harsh words used concerning the production
last week, The Bulletin is fain to state that it is
attractively staged, and, further, that for the many
who like this sort of play it is just the identical
sort of play they will like. The which is attested
by the chronically congested state of the house.
“In the Ranks” is to prevail till Tuesday next,
when a three nights’ run of “A Message from
Mars” will wind up the Allan Hamilton season.
“ The Hypocrites ” intend to put a period
to their loathly doings after Friday next; and in
the place where last they lied and schemed
(Sydney Criterion, to wit) “Lucky Durham ” will
Re presented. “Lucky Durham” is by the late
Wiison Barrett; and it is said by those who have
met it to be replete with thrill, emotionalism and
other pleasing circumstances.
* * * ifc
‘ ‘ Akenehi ” writes :
If the Sydney Stage Society could get another Sylvette
as charming and convincing as Miss Madge Mclntosh was
in the Society’s production of “ Fantasticks,” I would
earnestly advise it to give “Fantasticks” a further run.
Nothing brighter, more whimsical or more poetic has
been seen in Sydney. The production of the piece, and
the playing of some of the amateurs (in conjunction with
that of Miss Mclntosh), would have been creditable to the
seasoned actors of the “ Firm ” itself. It would be disas-
trous to entrust the r6le of Sylvette, the Juliet of Rostand’s
delightful joke, to any but an accomplished professional;
but if the Society can snare or borrow one to fit the part,
then I reiterate that it may make some more money by
further performances. No doubt it wants more money.
Every society and person wants more money. Besides,
hardened playgoers, who witnessed last week’s matinee
of “ Fantasticks,” have ever since been strewing Sydney
with notes of admiration, which is the best form of advt.
And all who hear and were not present are asking, in simple
Anglo-Saxon, “ Won’t they do it again?” “Les Roman-
esques,” or “ Fantasticks,” as the translater makes it, sets
out the story of two wily old fathers who conspire that their
respective son and daughter shall marry, and thus throw
down the wall dividing the two properties. To their
children the old men pretend an undying feud, and they
forbid the meeting of youth and maid. But the young-
sters are “ discovered ” one on either side of the wall
making ardent love. Later, hired bravos come to carry
off the girl, but the youth puts the horde to
hired flight with his sword. He is now greater
than Csesar in his damsel’s eyes. The disguises
of the bravos—their enormous hats and cloaks, their
effective posing by their leader and his injunction
to them to keep strict silence whilst he roars a song to
the moon (the moon is an extra in his bill)—the Stage
Society carried out all these things to admiration. The
fathers fall out, betray the plot, the lovers break off their
betrothal for a time, but all ends happily. Even the
bravo’s bill is paid. Miss Mclntosh (in Juliettish hair and
robes) was naturally the success of the piece. Mr. Leslie
Casey, as Percinet, the young lover, had a difficult part,
but lie gob through creditably and looked the pretty boy
all the time. Next to the star as successes were Messrs.
R. B. Orchard and W. E. Vincent, who played the
paternal pair. Mr. Gilhooley (and his moustache that
didn’t and wouldn’t) would have been better for further
rehearsals.
** * *
The Amateur Orchestral Society celebrated
its eighteenth birthday season at Sydney
Town Hall last Thursday. It had amongst its
crowded audience the Governor-General, and
unless that potentate is music mad he must have
regretted for the first time his acceptance of the
G.-G’ship of this continent. Schubert’s Sym-
phony in C, which takes an hour’s hard labor to
accomplish, was given as the second half of the
programme, and it came in after an hour of Beet-
hoven, Wagner, etc. His Ex.’s attitude during
the Schubert melody signified either deep artistic
reverence or profound dejection. Miss Muriel
Barton brightened things by raising her mezzo-
soprano in Elizabeth’s prayer from “ Tannhauser.”
«* * *
The weirdly named Bengough commenced
his season at Sydney Centenary Hall on Saturday
night. The Bulletin owns up to a kindly feeling
for Bengough, the little, old, lame humorist
with the cheerful manner and the sweet voice.
His is an old-time entertainment of humorous
songs, recitations, sweet old refrains, and excellent
crayon drawings—the kind that the present
generation knows but little of and takes little in-
terest in. He is supported by Philip Newbury
and Miss Rosina Buckmann, with that charming
pianist, Miss Lilian Delany, as accompanist.
Rosina Buckmann’s voice is a polished and
bevelled shriek, and Philip Newbury, despite all
his excellence, is not the singer he was, or else
this writer is not the hearer he used to be. Beni
gough as a reciter is excellent, and his humorous
stories are well delivered. As a crayon artist
he is decidedly good, and on Saturday
night he produced pictures of J. C. Williamson,
Conductor Slapoffski, and Oom Bill Lyne that
were veritable speaking likenesses. But the bad
acoustic qualities of the hall, and the perpetual
chatter of over- and under-dressed females, who
apparently went to the show to prevent other
people enjoying it, handicapped him enormously.
What is wanted at entertainments of this sort is
a licensed smacker, who should be empowered by
Act of Parliament to come round in burglar shoes
and hit the conversational lady with a dried
eel on the part of her which seems to be
left visible for the purpose. The half-dressed
female would appreciate the force of the smacker’s
remonstrance when nothing else on earth could
impress her. It is probably due to her influence
that this sort of entertainment has gone out of
fashion ; and it is certainly due to her exasperating
presence that most of the men who attempt to
live by it die young, like Mel. B. Spurr.
»* * *
To those who have not yet seen Wirths’
Circus, The Bulletin can only say, with Omar
Khayyam, “Oh, make haste, for the elephant is
on the wing.” The show will give its last Sydney
exhibition on Saturday night, and then away to
the country towns north and north-west. The
most impressive feature, of this combination is
one which does not bring any revenue. Writer
saw it once by accident when taking a short cut
through the slums of Darling Harbor. Down the
long, silent street suddenly appeared a weird pro-
cession of gaily-painted cages, drawn and pushed
by elephants. An occasional roar, a muttering of
confused growlings were the only sounds, and,,
although there were men there, they were not to
be seen. The elephants were the moving spirits
of that procession, and while the writer tried to
think of how many whiskies he had before
missing the last tram, the tail end of the
procession disappeared round a corner. The slum
street was itself again. There are several things
that make Wirths’ a show out of the common.
One is the excellence of its horse-flesh. Also, it
is a show of infinite variety which makes a point
of bringing each time something more reckless and
hair-raising than it did on the previous visit. How
long it will stand the strain of this sort of struggle
is hard to say ; but it must reach the limit some
day, or something will break.
** * *
Grahame and Dent are the only new
artists at Sydney Tivoli this week ; and, as they
are both engaged on the same turn, their arrival
may be said to add only one revolution to the pro-
gramme’s whirl. Chung Ling Soo continues to be
70 per cent, of the entertainment; the calmness
with which he extracts a whole poultry yard and
his wife from Hop’s missionary cauldron, and his


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan 5
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
The OLDEST MUTUAL and
Lowest Rates Charged.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H.'CARY, Chairman.
astonishment when a stream of sparks issues from
his lips after the wadding swallowing act, are two
humorous gems of his performance. After Chung
and the Grahame-Dent firm, the Tivoli first
reserves may be written down as Cull Ritt, the
two Bells, Baby Watson, Yeotha and Grade.
** * *
George Carey, who had 40 years’ experi-
ence on the boards in this country, is most favor-
ably remembered by the forebears of the present
generation for his work with the Brough-
Boucicault co, in 1895-96. His best character
performance was as Mr. Watkin, in Sydney
Grundy’s “Sowingthe Wind ”—Mr. Watkin, the
well-meaning, meddlesome, crusty bachelor, whose
advice to his friend, Mr. Brabazon, had turned
out all for the worst, and who was crumpled up
with regret at the finish, when the cynical profli-
gate, Lord Petworth, contemptuously told the old
cronies what fools they were. The Australian
stage has accomplished nothing more effective in
the way of moral teaching than the little address
delivered by Boucieault (as Lord Petworth) to
Titheradge and George Carey—the shrewd, blase,
honest libertine, vicious and unashamed, re-
vealing to the remorseful veterans in virtue the
fact that stupidity is sometimes the worst of sins.
George Carey played any number of respectable
old gentleman parts in his time, but this, doubt-
less, was the only time he had to bow his grey
head in self-abasement before the villain of the
piece. Another notable part was his Mr. Bullamy,
in “The Magistrate,” the last time that Brough,
Boucieault and Titheradge played in it. The late
Herbert Flemming was Bullamy the first time
they played in it.
** * *
Julius Knight has a good, sound addition
to his list in “The Breed of the Treshams,” which
has met with much favor at Adelaide Royal, and
will be a safe card to play anywhere. Knight
marks artistically the evolution of the hero from a
somewhat gentlemanly devil to a somewhat devil-
ish gent’eman. The only blot on the play is that
which marks most of the romances of the younger
writers, and especially of the Americans —a ten-
dency on the part of brave men to talk too much,
to talk cynically and sneeringly, and score cheap
verbal triumphs. The season ended with two
nights of the evergreen “Beaucaire,” in which
this sneering is pushed to extremes ; and
now Adelaide is getting up-to-date in matters
of melodrama. Owing to private reasons which
he found sufficient, Bland Holt kept away from
Adelaide for years, and so it happens that this
city had half-forgotten Walter Baker, and had
never seen Miss Frances Ross at all. Now they
have the good luck to be here for Cup Week, and
are being welcomed warmly. Tom Wootwell is
at the Tivoli, and to the pictures at the Olympia
and the Exhibition is now added a fresh lot at
the Town Hall, where Spencer’s Theatrescope
shows Harry Lauder earning an improbable sum
per week. Even the new Empire has a picture-
fake (it is called a “ miorama ” there), but mostly
it relies on a bustling “all-star” variety show at
popular prices ; and it seems to fill a long-felt
want.
* *
“The Man from Outback,” which is from
the same Australian factory as “The Squatter’s
Daughter,” was produced at Melbourne King’s for
the first time on Saturday. The story it has to
tell centres around a gang of cattle-duffers, who
duff with unwearying garrulity. The theme is
played on one string only. Sydney Winton,
mildly sinister and adorably bearded, is the chief
of the combination, and manages by singularly
intricate conspiracies to divorce a dreary, elderly
gentleman named Maitland from several head of
beef. Maitland possesses the usual historic cos-
tume of an African explorer—a Bilandersonian
heirloom, by the way—as well as a tiring articula-
tion, and a daughter (Mona) of the fashionable
stock size in irreproachableness. Dave Goulburn
flows into the painted perspective as a bloke in lan-
guorouspursuitof work. Daveuniteswith purity of
character the poetical kiss-curls of Roy Redgrave.
He is engaged to reside in the Boundary Hut,
where two former occupants have been corpsed by
some unrevealed brand of violence. Dave’s duty
in the hut is to encompass the ruin of the duffers,
and thereafter he just wallows in trouble. By the
machinations of the duffers, he is found with an
inexplicable stolen horse, and astoundingl.y evades
arrest by the interference of a comic mock police-
man. He is rescued from incineration in a blazing
hut by a segment of a menagerie in the shape of a
horse and hound. Later he struggles with Iron-
bark Jim, a rotund misdemeanant, and just
dodges eternity ; while Jim, borne down by the
dead weight of his own stomach, rolls into the
abyss of a property chasm. In addition, Dave
receives an accidental evening visit from his girl,
and is accused of misdemeanor. Finally, however,
he breaks up the gang, saves everybody, does
everything. Mainly this is due to the comic Bailey.
Roy Redgrave plays Dave Goulburn brightly and
stylishly. Lawrence Dunbar wears a very nice
beard as Sydney Winton—indeed, if there be any
breeding in beards, then Dunbar’s beard is royal.
Ned Duggan is portly and aldermanic as Ironbark
Jim. The part of Mona Maitland is quietly—
rather too quietly —played by Miss Kate Gair.
She appears to be trying for effects by nuances,
whereas, at the King’s, effects are only ob-
tained by elephants. Miss Fanny Erris and
Miss Lillie Bryer are supportable as Daisy
Somerville and Eliza Mac Whopper respect-
ively. Miss Fitzmaurice Gill plays Wild Kate
with a strident, bellowdramatic enunciation and a
wealth of striking attitude in top boots. The
scenery is plentiful and effective.
,
For one more week at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, the decorative Irish widow, with an Irish
regiment in attendance, will continue to set the
voice of scandal buzzing in Bath, or in as much of
that city as divides its time between the pump-
room, the barracks and the boudoir. Lady Bab
Flyte has shed a trifle of her superabundant red
eyebrows since the first night, and the frequent
fencing of the interrupted duellists is even brisker
than ever ; also the leading civilian—who is more
warlike than the soldiery, continues to improve on
acquaintance. But “Sweet Kitty Bellairs” is
still in need of compression. The situations are
too prolonged, more especially as one situation is
obviously designed to bring up another. The
play suffers from a slight excess of Nellie
Stewart’s trials and dilemmas; yet, considering
that the house was pretty full on the third Satur-
day night, the sufferings of the play are probably
rather desirable than otherwise.
Sir
At Melbourne Royal, the last 12 nights of
“The Girl Behind the Counter” began last
Saturday with another crowded house. The
music of that vague, uncertain comedy has settled
down into its easy lilt, and is going better than at
the beginning. Also the chorus—to call them
choristers would be to bring them before the
general understanding in cassocks and surplices
the chorus folk are walking through their duties
with mechanical precision. They are a tuneful
gathering, and they always nod their heads at the
right moment, or swing their hands rhythmically,
and otherwise conduct themselves with neatness
and intelligence. It is in the first act that the
music goes strongest. A concerted number—
“Shopping”—by the full strength of the rank
and file is a dainty example of melodious
manoeuvres. A Flower Duet between Miss
Lincoln and Harold Thorley fills the air
with violets and other
nosegay ingredients.
Edwin Brett has a
fetching song with
lively choral sup-
ports in each act.
Miss Lincoln bal-
lads prettily again
in the second act,
and Thorley’s vigor-
ous references to
“The Land Where
the BestManWins”
(as though the Best
Man necessarily
drove his pick into
the fattest nugget!)
is well backed up
by a gathering of
sympathisers in frock
coats, and supported
on the left by Roland
Bottomley in plum-
colored array. Bottomley
has some specially bright
lines to hang his gaudy
garments on, and his
name in this instance
misrepresents his value
to the proceedings. It
ought to be Topley, or
nearly so. The pants
HAROLD THORLEY,
back from "Out There ”
(Melbourne Royal).
that Cromwell fractured on the first night have
been carefully repaired or replaced, and although
the humor of their bagginess is severely strained,
there has been no further breakage of the material.
A pleasing piece of frivolity is this musical
comedy at the Royal. The assistants at the
drapery and general emporium mingle with the
customers in mazy song and dance. When one
goes to Her Majesty’s and hears Diana bewailing
the cheerlessness of her life at Dobson’s empo-
rium, one can only regret that poor Diana went to
the wrong shop.
** * *
Ere The Bulletin’s regretful announce-
ment meets the public eye of Melbourne, there
will have been a change of bill at Her Majesty’s.
“ Dobson’s” has gone out of business, and Diana
has ceased to break the law of the emporium
which forbade her to make audible comments on
the magnificence of her salary. Melbourne has
seen the last of the Dobsonian dormitory, where
the girls cast aside their back-hair and conversed
in their “ petties.” “ Diana of Dobson’s ” was a
charming story of capital and labor, notwith-
standing the fact that it introduced clever Miss
Emma Temple in a couple of appalling apparition
characters—firstly as the respectable virago who
bullied the moulting shop-girls in their lair, and
secondly as the disrespectable old fowl who
roosted on the seat
a-nigh the korfee stall,
and contributed
largely to the humor
of the final act. Be-
cause it was daintily
instructive and wholly
free from conventional
characteristics, the
piece was one of the
lights that fail. Also
the, management, per-
haps, made a mistake
in venturing a little, four-
act, unusual comedy in
the ordinary advertising
way, instead of putting it
forward as a deli-
cate specialty, and
making a short job
of the performance
instead of drag-
ging it out.
“Diana of Dob-
son’s” in London
was played as a 9
TITTELL
BRUNE as
Diana of
Dobson’s,
at Her
Majesty’s
(Mel-
bourne).
o’clock piece, and preceded by a substantial curtain-
raiser, so that the intervals were necessarily brief,
whereas, in the Australian production, they were
wearisomely long, for the reason that the comedy
without a curtain-raiser was not expected to
be “ too soon ” over. There was even an in-
terval between 8 o’clock and the rising of
the curtain. “Sunday” was to be revived
on Wednesday, for the last eight nights of
the Tittell Brune season. Miss Brune will say
good-bye to Melbourne and “the boys” on
Thursday of next week, and when the wilful
murder of Sunday’s unrighteous lover has been
duly explained for the last time, the stage will be
made ready for “ An Englishman’s Home.”
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia West now reels off
a yard or two of the exploits of a crime-chaser
known as Nick Carter. Nick contrives to rescue
a lone, abducted female by the aid of the bio-
graph and the abductor’s criminal carelessness.
In comparison with a Melbourne trap, he is
a demigod of sagacity. In addition to the exposi-
tions of Nat’s unalarming genius, West also shoots
on to the drapery pictures of “Waterfalls in
Winter” and “The Rope-Making Industry,”
besides a couple of mimodramas.
** * *
At Melbourne Glaciarium “The Cap-
tain’s Downfall” flickers on to the elephant’s
serviette, and proves to be an incoherent and
rather amusing yarn of a sea captain lured to an
opium den by the charms of a substantial siren.
Also the sheet becomes loquacious on “ Cingalese
Village Life,” in which may be seen the suspected
origin of the directoire gown; and it has some-
thing to say on “Caspian Sea Ports” and “A
Peep into Nature’s Realm.”
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House several people
made reappearances last Saturday, and the
Kellys—or should it be Kellies? —happened for
the first time. They are Jack and Miss Kelly.
Jack is commended to notice as being own brother
to the deceased gentlemen whose effigies are old
institutions at the Waxworks across the road.
He wields stockwhips, and lashes a cigarette from
Miss Kelly’s lips. Also he fires a pistol with
unerring aim, and is said to be "an enormous
success everywhere,” his alleged relationship to
Kelly of the Waxworks being a triumph in itself.
Less enormous successes are the nimble Laurels,
Cissie Curlette, Dale and O’Malley, G. W. Hun-
ter, and the Wheelers, and still less bulky is the
success of Charles Faning. The Wheelers, by
the way, deserve favorable mention for their new
baby motor, an excellent little model built by
themselves. The vehicle motes with great
rapidity on its hind legs, and its wild career is an
interesting work of art.
** * *
Albert Norman, after long service as a
gentlemanly villain on the Australian stage, has
struck very bad luck in Melbourne, and is
temporarily down and out. Recovering from a
bad spell of sickness a couple of years ago, he got
back to business for a short time, and then the
disbanding of Bland Holt’s co. saw him out of
harness again. Meanwhile all his savings had
been swamped in a misfortunate hotel venture.
An ailment which renders it impossible for him
to memorise a part keeps him off the boards in
his hour of adversity. The Bulletin holds that
a benefit for Norman would be only a fair thing.
** * *
“ 0.K.,” his letter :
Donald Mackinnon, Vida Goldstein, and a small number
of other Melbourne folk have started a mild agitation fora
Repertory Theatre Go. which shall produce a series of the
old classic English plays, and “ some of the more modern
literary dramas ”—in short, plays of the kind which are
caviare to the general, and which no manager can afford
to stage in the ordinary way of business. The would-be
promoters of the Repertory 00. have got J. O. Williamson’s
approval of their ’proposal, so their circular states.
Which, presumably, means that if they can fix up a com-
pany and guarantee the expenses (on a subscription basis)
of occasional performances of high-class works in which
comparatively few people would be interested—at the
outset, anyway—J.O.W. will accommodate the experi-
menters with occasional dates at his theatres, and the
practical assistance necessary to an effective show.
The cultivation of a refined public taste in stage
entertainment is a question of financial concern to
J. 0. Williamson, whereas it is a m itter of merely
personal amusement oi® sentimental aspiration, or both,
with the unprofessional advocates of a Repertory 00. The
production of even moderately “literary” plays is a
losing game in Australia these times. Nothing would
suit the managers better than a brisk public demand for
the “good ’’plays that are either old and free from copy-
right tax, or new and light, as regards the cast of
characters. There are great possibilities of profit in a
brilliant comedy, or comedy drama, that requires only
ten actors, two interior scenes, and a small orchestra—
but they are only possibilities. They no longer resolve
themselves into facts, as in the palmy days of Brough and
Boucieault. A conversational play by Bernard Shaw, an
Ibsen drama, a revival of “ Magda,” or even “ Two Gentle-
men of Verona ” (which can be played by 10 principals and
a few supers) would suit J. C. Williamson a lot better than
“ Jack and Jill,” or “ The Duchess of Dantzig,” if he could
get pantomime runs out of those intellectual entertain-
ments. It goes without saving that he approves of “ a
proposal to provide for the formation of a Repertory
Theatre Oo.” in Melbourne. Who is going to make the
the provision ? The writer would suggest an appeal to
Imperial sentiment. A number of plays that are occa-
sionally staged in the dear Cold Mother Country under
the patronage of the educated few seem to be crying out
for production in Australia. The enthusiastic old gen-
tlemen who were lately so ready with offers of £lO,OOO
towards the cost of Dreadnoughts would do a service to
the Empire by putting up the money for an all-the-year-
round of “ Sbakspearian and Old English Comedy Plays,
etc.,” in Australia. Their sympathy with the proposal is
bound to be immense, and if they will write out cheques
for the amount of it, the Repertory Theatre Co. can at
once proceed to business. After all, the greatest deeds of
patriotism are the privilege of the wealthy.
“ Old Lawyer,” on a Constitutional point:
The determination of the High Court that the Labor
troubles at Broken Hill (N.S.W.) were, owing to their
association with the troubles at Port Pirie (S.A.), matter
for the operation of the Federal Arbitration Act, supports
the opinion that, had serious violence occurred at Broken
Hill, and had the Federal Government so willed, it could
have interposed the military there without waiting for an
invitation from the N.S.W. State Government. The
assumption of Wade’s advisers was, and is, that the State
Government would, in such a case, have to apply for Federal
aid, pleading inability to maintain order, but just as the
Federal Government could have applied its Arbitration
power on its own volition, so it could have exercised
military authority on its own volition. It can exercise
that authority even against the will of the State Govern-
ment. During the time Cleveland was U.S. President he
sent troops to quell labor riots in Texas, though the
Governor of that State protested against the action as an
invasion of State frights. The Constitution Act obliges
the Federal Government to protect a State from domestic
violence, “ on the application of the Executive Govern-
ment of the State,” but when the violence threatens to
involve the peace of another State the Federal Govern-
ment may intervene without waiting for an application.
Its military jurisdiction is in that respect analogous to its
Arbitration jurisdiction.
Victoria has heard of another of ex-
Premier Bent’s irregular practices. The regula-
tions governing the establishment of agricultural
high schools provide that any district desiring a
bucolic academy must find half the cost of erection
and equipment, and at least 20 acres of land. Some
of the districts put up the stipulated sum, but
Wangaratta got a school costing £4OOO, though it
put up only £500; Warrnamhool, in Premier
Murray’s electorate, got a £2500 structure on a
contribution of £6OO ; and Shepparton, in Minister
Graham’s electorate, was given a £5400 edifice,
though its donation totalled less than £lOOO. Of
course, neither Bent, Murray, Graham, nor
Bowser saw anything improper in this—but one
understands why Thomas the Jobber complained
about the ingratitude of members.
The O’Brien family, of Waverley (Sydney),
has scored one win in its fight for legal recognition
of its private cemetery. Waverley council has
been suing the O’Briens for arrears of rates on
the property, and Judge Backhouse has found in
favor of the O’Briens on the ground that there is
no distinction at law between private and public
burial grounds. He also remarked that there is
no statute to prevent the private burying ground
being filled up with deceased O’Briens, and ap-
parently, if the O’Briens liked to include out-
siders, there is nothing to prevent them burying
the general public also at so much a head. If the
decision is good law, which is open to doubt, legis-
lation is needed to deal with private cemeteries.
If the O’Briens are exempt, there is no reason
why any casual landholder should not build a
small mausoleum in the centre of a large estate,
dedicate the surrounding area as a “cemetery,”
and thus escape rates till a rise in values made it
worth his while to revoke the dedication and rush
the property into the market.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“S. Weller”: The stage manager jettisons detail with
pleasing effect betimes. In the Dead wood Dick melo-
drama now in course of perpetration at Her Majesty's
(Melbourne), an opportune blizzard blows along and holds
the stage for some seconds ; but as soon as the bush-
ranger-hero addresses the heroine, the gale realises that
it is only a super, and straightway softens down to a mere
draught. While the wet willy willy ”is doing its worst,
doors and windows open and slam by the aid of too appar-
ent strings, and one pictures the switchboard boy getting
hot and untidy making the “ oil” lamps flicker. Yetinthe
midst of all this atmospheric clamor bravely stands a
lonesome candle that does not flicker a flick! It is this
sort of thing that gives an added joy to serious drama by
providing it with a touch Of the magical or Chung Ding Soo
element.
“ Johanna ”: A fine touch in “ Diana of Dobson’s ”is
the performance of Emma Temple as a sour and severe
forewoman, who threatens to “ repot you to Mr. Dobson
in the morning.” And the downfall of Abdul Hamid
wasn’t more remarkable than the spectacle when that
sour femal retires in disorder and scandalised amaze-
ment at Diana’s reply, “Damn Dobson!” Thus dots
sudden wealth upset a once well-disciplined mind.
“Micawber”: A “ Poverty Point” par. (B. l/4/’O9)
written by me receives a few corrections from Chung Ling
Soo. The magician produced evidence to prove himself the
original performer in England of the present style of
business—a style particularly his own, which has
received many feeble imitations. Soo states :“I never
worked for Foo in my life. I was doing my own original
show' in London when he came over. To advertise him-
self he commenced talking adversely about me. I didtdt
mind that; but when he started to run down my show, I
waded in, and sent him back to China under even time.
I love my life, and spend about 14 hours in every 24 at
the theatre, practising and inventing new material.
I am 48 years of age, and have been in the
business all my life. My wife and I have been
married for more years than we care to count
but I was about 22 when I hitched on. For
many years I wmrked for practically nothing, and
when I did get in the boom I dropped out once with a
dull thud and lost many thousands of pounds. Now' I’ve
got the biggest one-man show in the world. It embraces
12 people, all of whom have been with me for some con-
siderable time. So many different versions of my life
have been given by the various newspapers that I hardly
know myself which is correct. If you are in Liverpool,
they will show' you the house in which I was born. The
sanie in Birmingham and Manchester, and the same in
many other counties and countries.”
Will Dyson’s portraits of actresses—caricature or other-
wise-will perhaps attract a more general interest to his
forthcoming Melb. show of black-and-whites than his
pungent collection of politicians. Sometimes his theatri-
cal sketches made the subjects rather mad, and in other
cases they were accepted with philosophical approval.
Nellie Stewart protested warmly against a portrait that
was intended to be a pleasing advt. if not a flattering
likeness. A caricature of Frances Boss was an awful irri-
tant to the lad}'. On the other hand, Ada Dwyer laughed
gleefully over Will Dyson’s picture of her Mrs. Wiggs (of
“The Cabbage Patch”), and Margaret Anglin confessed
the truth of his conception of her Katharine in “ Taming
of the Shrew.” Miss Anglin’s remark on the subject was
characteristic of that brainy actress. She said the cari-
cature in The Bulletin “confirmed her gravest sus-
picions about herself.”
“ One Who Pays” : Just as Melbourne has been gasping
for a flesh-and-blood drama, there! comes along this
“Diana of Dobson’s.” Depend upon it, this is' the
exact kind of play that has been contemptuously rejected
in thousands by managers. It might go round all
the managers, be even read, and then cast out. The
authoress has no knowledge of stage technique. The
most interesting things are two talks on Economics. A
pamphlet play, but how hard it hits. Imagine a Pinero
with his “ Pish—Pshaw ! ” over the MS. How utterly
absurd are all the four curtains. Fancy ending a
play with a hungry man and woman devouring rolls and
swilling coffee on the Thames Embankmentl A drama-
tist needs no technique at all. He or she has only to
fling a palpitating episode of human life on the stage.
Just a chunk of raw meat will do. But the performers
require technique, as is abundantly evidenced by the fine
acting of Miss Brune, Mrs. Brough, Kingston and all the
others. We will see Pinero’s deftly carpentered “ House
in Order,” and see the nice, orderly wood. And—oh,
rejoice!—there is not one hug in “ Diana of Dobson s.’
Love is not absent, but it is properly and naturally qourte-
ous I thought of the two comedies by Beaumarchais, “The
Barber of Seville ” and “ The Marriage of Figaro.” These
were acted in Paris just as the French Revolutwn was
weltering. Marie Antoinette acted Suzanne, in “The
Marriao-e of Figaro,” at an amateur performance in Ver-
sailles. Said someone, “Are you aware that thjs is a
savage and merciless satire on the upper classes ?
“ What does it matter?” said she, with a laugh. Biting
is “Diana of Dobson’s.” It is like Barrie’s “ Admirable
Crichton,” but his polished dialogue does not tell
like the unadorned Saxon of Cicely Harhilton.
The ideas are quite naked. The moral is Mira-
beau’s “Mankind is divided into workers, beggars
and thieves.” Lord Bridgwater said to Lord Thurlow
in the 18th century, “Ido so love Bath, but
miss my London morning newspaper.” “Damme,
sir,” said Thurlow, “ain’t you aware that these con-
founded newspapers are cutting under all the privileges
of our order?” The free and unconventional drift of a
play like “Diana of Dobson’s” and “An Englishman’s
Home” is derived from M. Antoine’s Theatre Libre in
Paris. A reformer like him finds Othello’s occupation
gone when all the theatres start doing away with that
odious person known as the playwright, as opposed to the
dramatist.
(Continued on page 38.)
AN EVOLVED APE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A highly civilised ape is being exhibited at the London
Hippodrome. He eats his dinner like a man, finishing up
with a cigarette. He wears a full suit of clothes, has
learned to sew, and, though tie has a valet, is hot above
mending his own underclothing. He can write his name,
and has a bank account, signing his own cheques in a
laudably neat hand. —News Item.
This is a tale of a chimpanzee
That wears apparel like you and me ;
He combs his whiskers and oils his locks,
He curses his collars and darns his socks,
And, though he has mounted the social stair,
Disdains not to cobble his underwear.
Though far from the slums of tatters and dirt
He sings, while he patches, “ The Song of the Shirt. ”
You may see him abroad by his valet bedecked
With the latest in vests and a tie correct;
The twirl of his cane you would ne’er forget,
And the dandy puff of his cigarette.
He can carve his own dinner and pour his wine
And fold his napkin with air divine.
He tips the waiter as well, no doubt,
Receiving his stick ere he saunters out.
He has money, at least so I understand,
And in elegant paw (beg his pardon—hand)
He signs his cheques like a rich nabob,
For this ape’s not one of the common mob.
He has pastimes too, and is partial to sich
Fads as are aped by the idle rich.
For he’s boy and girl, and monkey and man
And savage and angel and Caliban.
For Orthodoxy a difficult nut,
For Evolution a triumph, but
A puzzle no less is that chimpanzee
Who has climbed the boughs of the human tree.
Does he love the bipeds he’s got among
Or the forest folk where he did belong?
Does he never list to the forest call
And sigh for the days before his“ fall ” !
For he then was a monkey simple and pure,
And what he is now, he isn’t quite sure.
A mixture of urchin, and monkey and man,
Of savage and angel and Caliban.
VICTORIA.
ALPENSTOCK.


ĥ
Australia’s Wool
FOR
Australians’ Rugs.
The D.J. Guinea Rug, as illustrated, is made in
Australia from pure Australian Wool, It measures
60in. x 72in., and weighs s|lb. It is closely woven
and very soft and warm. When travelling it greatly
adds toone’s comfort, and during the winter it makes
an excellent bed covering. The patterns, which in-
clude Tartan Plaids, Stripes and Checks, are rever-
sible, so that the rug is never “ wrong side out. 1 ’
PRICE - -21 s.
i
We send this rug carriage paid to any part of the
Commonwealth. Should it on receipt not prove
entirely satisfactory, return it, and your purchase
money will be refunded.
DAVID JONES Ltd,
SYDNEY.
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
£2?“ Where Engagement and Wedding Rings will cost you less.
p
Beautiful solid 18ct. Gold
Engagement Ring, set with
five Diamonds of fine lustre,
£5 ss.
Also at £7 10s. and £lO 10s.
Set with Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, or Emeralds,
£3 10s., £5 55., £7 10s. to £3O.
'J'HESE are but two ex-
amples of our Rings
of worth; the rest of our
magnificent stock awaits
your inspection. So come
right along.
We have been established
over 50 years, and you
may rely upon the best
value and the fairest treat-
ment.
Our famous solid 18ct. Gold
Wedding King, 20s.
Also at 30s. and 40s.
In 9ct. Gold, very heavy, 10s.
Any design executed to order
at shortest notice.
Our charges are always
moderate.
Ring Card and Catalogue free.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
At the recent annual meeting of Sydney’s
Alfred Hospital, Professor Anderson Stuart,
chairman of directors of the concern, made a few
remarks that give victual for consideration. To
stimulate economy there has been brought about
among the sisters and head nurses a system of
emulation in the saving of drugs and food. Dur-
ing its first year the system reduced the expendi-
ture, by £420, and last year it brought about a
further reduction of £BB. This “emulation ” was
due to the virile brain of Mr. Epps, the secretary ;
and it had been such a success that it has now
been applied to every branch of the establishment.
It has been worked out so carefully that it is now
known which group of nurses eats the most loaves
of bread, and this enables the management
to call for “explanations” from large eaters.
It’s a splendid scheme from the standpoint of
the secretary and treasurer ; but, unfortunately,
there are other things to be considered in the
management of an alleged great hospital than the
saving of expense. (The absolutely certain way
of abolishing expense altogether would be to close
the hospital right up ; and by the time the build-
ing material and land had been sold the balance-
sheet would show a profit.) The lives and com-
fort of the patients and the health and happiness
of the nurses are entitled to as much consideration
as the saving of cost. In fact, there are some
people .who maintain they are of even greater
importance. Under a system which aims
at “bringing about emulation among the
nurses in the way of economy,” and which
requires an explanation from the nurse whose
economy isn’t sufficiently awful, it is only a
question of time and pressure till both patients
and nurses suffer. The staff is a large one, and
where any large number of people are gathered
together there is sure to be at least one criminal
skinflint among them. In fact, there is evidence
that she is in the P.A.H., seeing that this pre-
cious “emulation” saved £420 the first year, £BB
the second, and, judging by a table of monthly
comparisons, is likely to save £7OO additional the
third, mostly in the matter of food and drugs.
These figures would suggest that the criminal
skinflint is making the pace very fast; and in the
face of these disclosures it would be well if, before
passing any item for the subsidy of this concern,
the N.S.W. Assembly carefully analysed its
death rate, and obtained some information about
the working hours and health of the staff.
An Adelaide law court has had to decide
a hard thing. An intending bride sent her trous-
seau to the railway station by carrier ; but when
she ivas a bride, and arrived there herself, the
outfit was missing, and she had to go honeymoon-
lng uncomfortably in “ what she stood up in.”
Most of the goods never transpired again at all,
and the lady sued the carrying firm for their
value. After settling how much that was,
Jjhe Judge tried to settle who should pay.
lne railway, it seems, refuses to give re-
ceipts to carriers, so a custom has arisen
of dumping parcels down in the great barn
tha,t receives them, and drawing the attention of
a clerk at a more-or-less distant counter by point-
ing a thumb in their direction. The Judge said
this was a fool of a custom, and the railways must
invent another ; then he proceeded to place the
loss on the carrying firm, for giving way to it. So
future honeymoons in S.A. may hope to be
attended by all the frilled circumstances that give
them extra value.
Melbourne’s snobocracy, perhaps, was
originally responsible for the foolishness of apply-
ing the title of “Janet, Lady Clarke” to the
widow of baronet William Clarke. When Vic-
toria’s first baronet went the way of all flesh, and
was buried with Masonic-military processional
honors, the mind of Toorak was greatly concerned
with a discussion as to the proper way of dis-
tinguishing the old Mrs. Clarke from the new
Mrs. Clarke, wife of the Rupert who had
succeeded to his late father’s baronetcy. The
local newspapers fanned the burning question,
and out of this conflagration there flamed the
official announcement that the widow was thence-
forth to be styled Janet Lady. The absurdity had
no precedent to go upon as regards baronets’
widows in Britain, where baronetcies are num-
bered by the hundred. Mrs. Clarke and her
worshippers had seemingly got the notion of this
unique title from the fact that a very notorious
old woman used to figure in print as “ Maria,
Marchioness of Ailesbury.” For which there
were good and sufficient reasons, according to the
sacred laws of etiquette. There were at one time
two other—in fact, three other—existing Marchion-
esses of Ailesbury than old Maria aforesaid. And
etiquette rules that whilst the wife of a reigning
marquis is called the marchioness and the widow
of his immediate predecessor is the dowager
marchioness, the surviving widows of any pre-
vious predecessors shall stick their old baptismal
name m front of their old titles, because they have
ceased to be dowagers. Marchionesses and
duchesses are marked for this special distinction.
Widowed countesses, baronesses, viscountesses, or
the ladies of mere courtesy lords are never other
than dowagers, anyhow. As for the widows of
baronets, they just remain as they were. They
don’t even attain the awful dignity of “dowager.”
Janet Lady was lifted about four steps higher
than her dignity.
* * * *
Quite a lot of persons in authority seem to
have no more initiative than Eve had clothes.
Though Melbourne’s Receiving House, for persons
on the border-line of sanity, has been open for
patients quite a while, O’Callagan’s police just
kept on running-in suspected lunatics, and the
honorary magistracy kept on sending them to gaol
for medical attention. At last, when the J.’sP.
had gaoled a lunatic with £5 in his pocket—gaoled
him on a charge of “no visible” of all things—
the under-secretary forcibly reminded them that a
receiving house was a place for suspected lunatics,
and not a stable or a dog repository, as they might
have supposed. Also, someone lately asked Rail-
ways Minister Billson how it was the Vic-
torian State hadn’t followed N.S.W.’s example,
and tendered for some of the work incidental to
MENTAL ARITHMETIC .
the building of our new destroyers, a lot of
which could be done at the Newport workshops.
The only excuse the tiresome Billson could think
of was that “ the matter had not previously been
brought under his notice.” Doesn’t Billson think
of anything unless it is dragged under his notice?
***•-,r
Smythesdale (Vic.) is proud in the posses-
sion of a Dreyfus of its own. Two months ago,
one Greed, a member of the borough council
and the town clerk were charged by Olnev,
constable and inspector of nuisances, with creat-
ing a disturbance on their way home from what
the local sheet adumbrates mysteriously in the
words “ a convivial gathering.” The town clerk
left the justice hall without a beer-stain on his
escutcheon. Not so Creed. Five shillings were
MAN'S INABILITY.
HE (wearily): “Man proposes but God
disposes.”
SHE (sadly): "Yes, and some men don’t seem able to manage even their half share of the business.”
torn from his protesting grip and lodged in the
coffers of the State. A council meeting followed,
whereat the constable’s conduct in tamper
ing with his betters was “ strongly disap-
proved.” It was resolved to ask Olney,
in his capacity of inspector of nuisances, to
tender his resignation. There was a general feel-
ing amongst the councillors that there were some
hilarious nuisances that oughtn’t to be interfered
with. Olney declined to cease inspecting nui-
sances ; but, seeing the sack looming, he at last
handed in the baton of his unsavory job. Where-
fore, Smythesdale is seething with indignation,
and dossiers are flying round, and likewise recrimi-
nations, and the feeling is that, if Olney is not
swiftly re-instated in the billet he never should
have lost, a reproduction on a minor scale of the
recent awful doings in the neighborhood of Yildiz
Kiosk must supervene.
The Rev. Carr Smith, of Sydney—the
man who said bitterly that he had been a failure—is
getting out of official harness just when a prospect
of obtaining a little more domestic comfort comes
in view. The rectory of St. James’s is
an archaic abode, with the bedrooms
running into one another, and the
internal arrangements belong to
the Dark Ages. If the incumbent
got tired when half way through
the preparation of his discourse,
and wanted to relax his mind by
swinging a cat, there is no
apartment in which he could
whirl the animal round his head
by the tail without it digging
its claws into the wall and
turning upon him to bite his
ear. The premises are situated
in Phillip-street, and are part
of the structure known as
“Starkey’sßuildings.” They
have no yard, and they abut
on to a ginger-beer factory,
where at all hours of the
night horses are heard stamp-
ing, corks popping, and bottles bursting. Arrange-
ments are being made to get new diggings for the
shepherd, but apparently the apostle Smith won’t
stay to enjoy them.
The coming of the taxi-cab gives a hint to
the Melbourne hansom cab-driver that ere long he
will be compelled, like his humbler brother of the
waggonnette, to resort to suburban weddings and
funerals as a means of livelihood. The decadence
of the Melbourne cabman began 40 years ago,
with the introduction of an organised ’bus service.
Great was the indignation of the Jehus of that
period at the invasion of their happy hunting
grounds by the “ painted boxes on wheels.” The
more lawless spirits amongst them did not hesi-
tate to offer personal violence to the new-comers
in the shape of wilful collisions and bombardment
by stones, while harassing prosecutions were in-
stigated against the ’bus-drivers for “plying off
the stand.” Those of the cabmen that had some
common-sense accepted the inevitable, and made
a creditable show of opposition to the ’bus com-
pany. For some years the Royal Mail corner
of Bourke and Swanston streets was the principal
rendezvous of the threepenny lines of cabs that
plied to the various suburbs. Here they were
under the control of a timekeeper, armed with a
cheap American clock and a whistle. But the
coming of the trams in ’B5 Was followed by the
disappearance of the threepenny cab, and the
once familiar “’Wood, ’Wood, ’Wood,” or “’Ld
Til, ’Ld ’lll ” of the touting cabby bound for Col-
lingwood or Emerald Hill, is now no longer heard
in the land.
*** * .
“ Jeroboam ” writes :
At the annual meeting of the Prince Alfred Hospital,
Professor Anderson Stuart complained bitterß that the
Government had declined to remove the “ general beds ”
from the Coast Hospital to the Prince Alfred Hospital.
The refusal to go on with that proposal—made by Car-
ruthers—is one of the few things that will stand to the
credit of Premier Wade on the Day of Judgment. For
Prince Alfred Hospital is a concern which receives
patients and collects subscriptions under false pretences.
As a matter of fact the place is not so much a hospital as
a clinic—a training establishment attached to the school
of medicine at Sydney University ; and patients are ex-
pected to submit to be mauled about by students in
search of experience. I once took a lady relative there,
and received a bitter complaint that she had been sub-
jected to examination by something like half-a-dozen
students. When protest was made, an official brutally
informed me that I should have taken the lady to
a hospital that was not attached to a training college for
medical students ; and the official was as brutally told
that if he, or any other official, had explained that
patients were to be submitted to indecent assault, the
lady would not have been left there. Prince Alfred hos-
pital authorities do not ask permission; nor do they
explain when patients apply for admission that they will
be expected to act as “ subjects.” And the explanation
given to me was that if this was done there would be no
patients to subject, as women especially would not
enter. At the annual meeting the various speakers
fluted considerably over the good work that was done ;
but the fact that it is a place of treachery to which poor
people are lured on the promise of hospital treatment,
and are then mauled about by students, was never once
mentioned. Also, the fact that women have been ejected
at short notice from the hospital for refusing to sub-
mit to this sort of wholesale inspection, was also care-
fully omitted.
THE PIDGIN IMPERIALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~ u ® ruoe Simfchj at a meeting held under the auspices
of the Australian Women’s National League, urged that
Australians should learn to think imperially. They
should think, not from a Victorian or New South Wales
point of view, but from an Australian point of view. It
w ?'? if k kliat Parliament should be taken away to a place
which should be neutral with regard to public'feeling and
newspaper criticism, and New South Wales felt that this
2£» S /w! 11 was being unjustifiably postponed.— Argus,
O9.
God save Australia and Noo South, Victoria and Bruce
Smith,
And send the King good health, and knowledge of our
needs therewith !
Let now the Empire fill our thoughts with new Austra-
lian pride,
And let our love for colored folk no longer be denied !
No harm can come from Asia if we treat our Ohows as
white,
So let us trust in England though the gunboat-harvest
fails!
Let everyone unite
To put these matters right--
Three cheers for Empaustralia and Noo Queen Tasmania
Wales 1
Come, kiss your Hindoo brother, as an Empire-builder
should,
And pray and think Australian—it will do Victoria good !
And, when Noo South’s in trouble, turn your thoughts
to Empire, or
Pull ropes to give Noo South the things Noo South is
howling for !
Long live the Chinese Empire and its free Australian sons,
And let our children, crowding to the tea-fight, white or
brown,
Discover, chewing buns,
The way the message runs—
“ God help Australia, boys—and pull the White Man’s
ensign down!”
The noise of crazy voices in the wilderness we hear—
Wild sounds of men who’ve mingled dreams of Empire
with their beer.
“ Long may the heathen wave ! ” “ Gorsave ! ” “ Aus-
tralia and Noo South !”
“Freetrade in O.iows!” and “ Hit the dirty traitor in
the mouth ! ”
Hear that mad cry, “More Empire !—more Australia,
men! More State!”
“Go’bless our nigger cousin!” and “Three cheers for
England, boys ! ”
Oh, let us, small and great
No whit of sound abate,
Bpt make a piebald, Jingo, more-or-less-Australian noise !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
POPULARITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We meet him sometimes in the bar
The man who is so popular.
His liquor always is three-star ;
He also smokes a good cigar !
He has, sometimes, a motor car,
A joy beyond our means by far!
He shouts ! His purse is globular.
His credit always stands at par !
On his escutcheon is no scar,
While ours, of course, is smeared with tar 1
Alas, how very sad it are
That we are so unpopular !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Women’s Labour Union.
One hoar of an Australian woman’s time
should be and is' worth more than the
value of a bar of soap. If a woman can
buy a tablet of soap that will save her
one hour alone of labour per day she has
he soap for nothing. Sunlight Soap, used
in the Sunlight way, will save much more
than an hour in the day. Try one Tablet
and note directions on the Wrapper. You
will be pleased with the rO5 iits, and you
will surely join the Women's Sunlignr
Labour Unioj^
Poor Sarah Jane, she had a pain ;
She thought that she would die ;
’Twas in her chest—she had no rest,
And tears were in her eyes.
She never slept, and mother wept
’Till father did procure
A bottle small that cured it all,
’Twas Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
The Latest in Soft Hats.
h
HAT styles have adopted a new vogue
entirely this season, and our illus-
tration shows one of the seasonable
styles. Our New Soft Hats have quite
hit the popular liking, and are selling
rapidly indeed. Brims are not quite so
'wide as formerly, and tones are Walnut
Brown, Italian Green and Light Slate.
The brims are double-edged and un-
bound —and to effeet a negligee appear-
ance can be turned down at any point,
and at front to afford ample shade to
the eyes. We advise early application
for your particular shade, as our clients
are realising the quality offered in this
fashionable line.
PRICE, any shade, 12s. 6d.
Posted, 9d. extra.
PEAPES <a CO. LTD.
“ Men’s
Outfitters
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
The unaccountable death of a month-old
l.aby has resulted in a young couple being com-
mitted in Melbourne on a charge of murder.
Dentist Edgar Wilson, a husband of five months’
standing, dwelt with his wife and the infant—
their first—in Toorak, and while he was away
pulling tusks the wife attended to her housework
and the offspring. On Easter Monday, according
to their narrative, she fed the baby at about
2 30 p.m., then put it to sleep in a clothes basket.
At 3 o’clock the husband returned, and had a bath.
Then the pair indulged in music and singing till
5 p.m., when they bethought them of the infant.
They went and inspected it—and found it
dead. Having considered matters for a space they
left the deceased in the house and trammed
out to North Oarlton to the lady’s mother. She
desired them to go and see a doctor, and discon-
nected herself from the episode. They then rode
out to St. Kilda and looked for the husband’s
father, but he wasn’t in. Next, they visited the
medico who had attended at the birth of the child,
told him of its death, and asked for a certificate.
This he naturally refused, and referred them to
the Coroner. It was then 9.30 p.tn. There was
so far a surprising casualness and unusualness
about the decease of the couple’s first baby, but
the matter became more than casual when the
post mortem, disclosed the fact that the in-
fant had its skull and three ribs broken.
Now a month-old baby could hardly climb out of
the basket by itself, and thus acquire the injuries,
still less could it climb back into the basket after
it was dead ; yet it was found in the basket. The
father and mother allege that they can’t account
for the damages; yet they also admit that they
alone had access to the child. It was a poor
casual sort of baby, and its luck seems to have
been out.
* * * *
The downfall of Abdul the Damned is
another instance of the inability of tyranny to
attract decent men to its cause. Abdul spent
some millions annually on his spy system, and
was supposed to have evolved a whispering
machine and an automatic listener that beat all
records. Yet at the last it seems to have turned
dog on him. Salonika is not very far from Con-
stantinople, and it would appear to be impossible
that a whole army corps could keep its political
opinions secret. Yet Abdul seems to have been
entirely ignorant of the resources behind the
Committee of Union and Progress ; and the only
inference is that his spies had filled him up with
false information, and generally let him in. The
closing scene was a very common one—the
fallen monster deserted by everyone ; his harem
in flight; his servants pillaging his palace; and
himself, without one supporter left, waiting the
coming of his captors ! That sort of thing has
been seen over and over again. Hardly a Plan-
tagenet died but had his disrespected corpse left
to strangers. Shah Jehan’s body was stripped of
its jewelled clothing and left naked on the floor
of his palace. Louis the Well-Beloved could find
hardly anyone to bury him decently. The trouble
is that the tyrant surrounds himself with men
who are willing to sacrifice anyone to their per-
sonal gain, and when the time comes they sacri-
fice the tyrant, and the only reason why he is
buried at all is that it is easier to do that than to
salt him down. Abdul’s gang seems to have
sacrificed him for a solitary fiver a-piece—and he
was not even dead.
PLAIN DEALINGS.
“But such love as yours, Nina! Pm not worth
it.”
“ Well! How much are you worth? That's just
what I want to find out."
An amusing aftermath of the Easter
manoeuvres in Victoria is a controversy as to
whether a certain captain was “ officially dead
when he was killed, or whether he was only
officially stunned or sandbagged and was entitled
to recover? The gallant captain says that he was
never dead, officially or otherwise; in witness
whereof, he is still alive. His opponents allege
that they killed the gallant captain on sundry
occasions; and that against all the rules of the
game of being dead he went on fighting after he
was defunct. It appears that early in the pro-
ceedings the captain’s forces were defeated, and
ruled out of action as officially buried. In fact,
they were disqualified. But notwithstanding
this, the captain, later in the day, attacked a
company of the Scottish Regiment, and was again
routed and killed with great bloodshed, watershed
or cowshed or something. The Highlanders
claimed the victory, but as investigations raised
the idea that the gallant captain had been done to
death on sundry previous occasions, the claim was
disallowed. They couldn’t fight with a corpse.
It seems that you are not allowed to kill a man
more than once at these manoeuvres ; or if you
inadvertently kill him a second time it doesn’t
count, because he can’t be buried twice. But the
gallant captain is evidently the sort of man who
wouldn’t consider himself killed if he was blown
up with dynamite. The military authorities aie
considering the question of taking a coroner with
them next year to sit on the alleged corpses and
keep them dead.
* * * *
“Landsman” writes :
Re “D.M.W.”(B. 15/4/’O9) and the lost Penguin, a
reference to the Australasian Shipping Register reveals
the fact that she was “ repaired” in 1883, that is when
she was under 20 years old. Since then, 26 years have
elapsed, and the Register, which records lengthenings
and other alterations to vessels, preserves a gloomy
silence on the subject. A careful search through the
same contribution to belles-lettres shows that only one
older passenger-boat is in commission—'the little Storm-
bird (dating from ’54), which runs between Wellington
and Wanganui, and is about the size of some of the Sydney
ferry craft. The Howard Smith’s Derwent, of the same
antiquity as the Penguin, is now, I think, a collier.
Vessels like the Belleisle and Egmont, which are ex-pas-
senger carriers of the Penguin’s age, have been con-
verted into hulks. The Brightside (born in 1865) runs
even to Manly no more. Yet the Penguin plodded on and
incidentally earned dividends. , Was the Penguin painted
and smartened up as a cheap investment? I have
still a mild thirst for enlightenment on the point. “Many
newer boats were far older than she ” is a vague remark
that floats round like a corpse on the tide. Personally, X
should feel safer on a more recent craft than on
“D.M.W.’s” prospective Penguin of 65 years of age.
Among the oldest things on the Register are the Augustus
and Proteus, now lighters, dozing at Geelong, built in
Java before Waterloo, and I presume of teak, which wears
wonderfully; the old whaler Waterwitch (1820), and
the Royal William, cutter, devised in Hobart in 1833.
The Union Company, as part of its sentimental attach-
ment to old vessels, I suppose, has the hulk Gazelle,
whose keel was laid on the M xlabar coast in ’37, and a
scrap of the warship Nelson (1809).
* * *■ *
The Sydney Telegraph said
this (21/4/’O9) apropos the squabble that was
raging in its columns at the time between Hughes
and Joe Cook, M’s.P. :
Political feeling in England is probably more intense
than it is with us, and at times becomes altogether too
virulent. But even so, the politician of the House of
Commons, with generations of Chesterfields as an
example, seldom or never forgets the dignity due to his
representative office, and his speech is almost always
carefully considered, cultured, and restrained. This is
an example we might well copy.
Shall I be out of order, and
liable to a charge of unre-
strained and vulgar conduct, if
I condemn the above as hum-
bug, not to say dashed rot ? In
the memory of most of us,
members of this allegedly
“restrained” and “cultured”
House of Commons howled
“Judas” and “traitor” at
one another across the floor of
the House, and then closed and
free fought savagely under the
astounded Speaker’s very nose.
Nothing of that sort has
occurred in the Australian Par-
liament to date. There have
been individual scraps, but the
football scrum in politics is a
different thing. In the cur-
rent London files I note that
L. J. Maxse and Sir John
Brunner, M.P. for Northwich,
have been having a fiscal dis-
cussion. Maxse accuses Brun-
ner of being an “import from
Europe ” (Brunner’s father was
a Swiss parson); Brunner re-
torts by calling Maxse a "liar.”
If our parliamentarians want
to accuse their fiscal opponents
of truth-perverting, they at
any rate usually disguise the
phrase more or less. There is
nothing in the Australian
Parliament to approach the
brutal incivility with which a
certain class of British Tory
M. treats his fellow-member
who is a Laborite. The modern
Labor member—where he is of
the advanced school—is in the
same position socially in the
House of Commons to-day as
the Irish member was when
Parnell was in his prime. In
those days a certain Ulster
M.P., on the frequent occasions
when he had dined over-well,
was wont, as a matter of habit,
to reel to his seat in the House
and hurl at the “Irish Gang”
thedeadliest insults. Yetno one
protested. Even the Irish—as gossiper Lucy notes
approvingly in one of his volumes—took no notice
of their assailant. They held it to be “bad form ”
to blame a man for what he did in his cups.
Apropos, this is one of the few directions in which
our ordinarily well-behaved House may learn a
lesson in decency from abroad. N.S.W,
sends to Melbourne a youthful and ill-
bred Parliamentarian of the Anti-Sosh
persuasion, whose pleasure and pride it is
to “throw off” unceasingly at any political oppo-
nent whom he suspects of being under the weather.
It is a thing that decent-minded men don’t do.
The performance casts no particular reflection on
the perpetrator thereof (on the principle that it is
impossible to dull the appearance of mud), but it
tends to lay the Parliament wherein it occurs open
to the reprobation of the multitude.
CUSTOMER (pushing beer back hurriedly): “ Wot’s this?" BUNG: “ Beer ."
CUSTOMER: “Hot Then would yer oblige me by tying a bit o' black crape round it?"
BUNG: “Wot for?" CUSTOMER: “ It's dead.”
A. new method of kissing the Bible has
been introduced at Sydney Central Police Court.
. It has the great advantage of giving a fresh page
to each swearer, but even that will not allay the
suspicions of the germ-fearing witness. Any
book that is handled and licked —even if there is
only one lick to a page—by the usual run of police
court swearers, quickly becomes not alone a
disease-bearer in parts, but insanitary as a whole.
The only method of satisfying the scrupulous
about the use of books in court is to abolish books
for swearing purposes. They do no good in any
case. A man is no more likely to tell the truth
after kissing a book than after kissing a girl—in
fact, if she is a nice girl, the average man would
swear much more reliably on her than on the
book.
In the N.S.W. Government Gazette of
April 21, amid a lot of flummery, much “God
Save the King, ” ,and many proclamations signed
by Acting-Excellency G. B. Simpson, appeared a
somewhat novel notice. It stated that the
Administrator of the Government, with the
advice of the Executive Council, had approved of
a regulation whereunder the Curator of the Aus-
tralian Museum is authorised to impose a fine not
exceeding ss. on any employee guilty of repeated
carelessness or neglect of duty. It is, of course,
necessary to maintain discipline, but the necessity
exists in all other Departments as well as in that of
stuffed birds and hairy dead monkeys. And if
one departmental boss is made a Court of summary
jurisdiction, why not all the bosses ? Then again,
is there any guarantee that the business will stop
at mere fines? May it not develop till the boss is
authorised to sentence his subordinate to im-
prisonment, on bread and water or otherwise, in
the cell attached to the office ? And from that it
seems a natural and logical step to the flogging of
clerks and other officials. The summary jurisdic-
tion which has been given to the chief of the
stuffed bird job is a matter that may lead to a lot
of developments.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing. Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs: entrance from
George or King Streets).*
THE HOUSEHOLD BRIGADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What will our readers say when we tell them that our
highly-trained artillerymen are at this moment being
employed in some sort of domestic duty in the household
of the Governor-General? A more utterly foolish use to
which to put our trained gunners one can hardly
imagine. Nor is it rendered less foolish by calling
soldiers who do domestic work “ orderlies.”— Melbourne
Herald, 15//il'o9.
Although the heathen rage and roar clean round Aus-
tralia’s coast,
And bang upon our half-closed door, a wild, unholy host,
Fear not, faint heart —at Guv’meut ’Ouse a steed of pedi-
gree
Is groomed, these days, by Bill and Jim; they’re learn-
ing gunner}'.
The clouds of war may cloak our skies, and yet we do not
care,
For, grafting at the Guv’nor’s place, with neatly-parted
hair,
We see our Bill at saucepan-drill, a bathbrick in his hand,
A tried and well-trained soldier of the Kitchen-gunners’
Band.
When presently we hear, like bees, the live lead over-
t head,
And see around us scattered far our torn and tangled
dead ;
When sinoke and dust and curses fill the atmosphere
with gloom,
And Bill Australia, brave in death, goes shouting- to his
doom,
His Semi-Royal Nibs, who runs the Household-gunners’
class,
May be at hand to cheer them as they bite the dusty
grass.
Yes, some day when our soldiers hear the Monkey’s
opening shot,
His Nibs may be on Southern soil—and then, His Nibs ...
may ... not!
When presently (and soon, mayhap), though Guv’nors
wax and wane,
We hear the threatened thunder-clap, and shut our ears
in vain—
When presently the armored ships come down from Dai
Nippon,
TheG.-G. may be here, and... p’r’aps... he simply. ..
may... be.. . gone.
But, here or not, his household yet will hold the fort for
us,
And from their stable-toil come forth to slay the Monkey-
cuss.
They’ll dust across the cow-reserve, our men of pail and
mop—
But, as they sweep a-down the scene, say, will the Monkey
stop ?
VICTORIA.
F.


low Jjmuasive-fones J&-
Co»ia not-be fj&lf-
ove»' "rfjc haJl
Nat- TriE-P. tf;'*
yA«*C€C Corner.
Bill-. !- ° w *><■
L V" >%»'"s -H U SMd ( ..
you Wjcw I live T h a i r •
We will now S'ne,
fo If>e Cio wry o\ A
Goa o»r of o«rJ
own neyew
hymti booK —■’*
j>HCC
KeewavT&r
—
none o#)e*’"
!
■y\H over cVjuroh »T)e.n s<t>oys Could
~\>e see* weefj bofrtf-j • s.
(press I'efjof+o
" Ihc is
q rt (f moXi <> n fa^ljer
rc^°” .“ "(Ay)
pV.yidc, Oft The_
Hearj
<
f W S "!S
man 1
create tor tjof livinp <
ikCodly life, let" Ki»vj
OKif> it - in H'S SKclefen
-tek*C€ 11""Wiflj ■>|lrrj ’beyond
-tCc pravve. He'll if!
* (Boss eva-3* 1 . f'*
flt>de»’+SJ«*';— "Well ?—-Wot* master r
?>© -- "liye blv>Ky fov^ojl^
S2£=£ ! "
' _ , " / i
lire MisS'ori 'S dciup *"«*»
on |a<+'es^' li»7es, feio ♦'cd
to "b«. worn jk fe
ik- ' '
Eva^noel; —"O, l y*T my dear fnend \re you bound
for ifje 'Jei'us®k^ ,v i ? * - .
Rcs|»ect&>le according ~to V«s * '* Well, er . I was
but*excuse me ! if you bre gome, wcIIjCkJ *-* II ”
(fut-hS according}
A MELBOURNE YANKEE REVIVAL.


EDUCATION BY POST.-™,' I;r b S
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,”post free.
Only Address — Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
41 IN THE £
l DISCOUNT
we are taking off all Electro-Silverware.
The slump in metals has enabled us to
make special arrangements with the
greatest and best manufacturers of
England to sell their Electro-Silver and
Silver products at 20 per cent, discount
off their English WHOLESALE catalogue
prices.
This forced us to make similar reduc-
tions on all our Electroplate stock.
Heavy Electro-Silver, 37/6. Less 20 percent, discount, 30/-
We stock these in many designs.
Plain Figures"!
Cash only. J
FAIRFAX § ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Jobber ” : J.D.F. errs when he says
(“Queensland To-day,” B. 15/4/’O9) that “you
never see him [the horse] yoked with a mule or. a
donkey.” In parts of N.Q. dozens of the things
fools back are to be seen pulling cane trucks to
the mills, in company with mules. I'm horse
right through, but at the same time must put in
a word for the mule. As an honest puller who
goes right up to the collar all the time he deserves
recognition.
“Stony ” : On market mornings, between
last and first trains, hundreds of vegetable-laden
carts roll from the gardens of the Brighton dis-
trict, near Melbourne, to lay their verdant offer-
ings at the feet of the metropolis. Later on,
having sold his green goods, Jim Jam loads up
with stable manure, and departs for Brighton once
more. This practice has been followed for many
years. The ARGUS has just awakened to the fact
and has printed a letter about it. The polite
letter-writer refers to the “disgusting practice of
the market-gardeners in bringing from town a
return load of rotting stable manure in the same
carts as they use to carry their garden pro-
duce to market.” The correspondent is also
“convinced that these carts receive no other
washing than that given them by occasional
rain showers.” If the Board of Health cannot
prevent the continuance of such hideous practices,
perhaps a few copies of the Argus, judiciously
distributed among Jim Jam and his cousins, may
have the effect of causing them to see the error of
their unsavory ways. As the Argus has so often
reminded its readers. Private Enterprise merely
requires a polite hint, if irritating conditions
exist, and those conditions will be voluntarily
removed. Therefore, let letter-writing reformers
live in bright hopes of a new manure-arrangement,
even though they die in despair—or of typhoid—
in the meantime.
A look into one of the out-of-the-way
corners of Australia :
Lately wandered over a large part of Kimberley (W. A.),
from Derby to Wyndham, covering 640 miles. On the
Fitzroy River I visited Upper Liveringa (Kimberley Pas-
toral Oo.) and Noon Ranbah (Emanuel and Oo.) while
shearing was in progress. Upper Liveringa was putting
through 110,000 sheep ; 28 white men on the board, with
a white man pressing. Gins acted as rouseabout.s and
picked up ; all the other work Was done by blacks. No
accommodation is provided for the shearers ; they sleep in
tents, here, there and everywhere. At Noon Ranbah the
board consisted of 14 whites on one side and nine blacks
on the other. Half-caste piccaninnies picked up, blacks
rolled, pressed and loaded waggons, while a bevy of fancy
lubras did the yarding. At one station there are 18 half-
caste children, some voung girls budding into woman-
hood. What is the future of these? Only one thing—
prostitution.
After traversing the Fitzroy for 200 hules I crossed the
river at Fitzroy Crossing, where there is a pub, store,
and police station. For 50 miles I passed through magni-
ficent downs country, with Flinders grass and spinifex.
This, properly w'atered, would carry immense herds ; now
it is practically stockless. From here to Hall’s Creek you
pass through 120 miles of likely-looking gold-bearing
country without a habitation all the way. At Hall’s
Creek I went to the old diggings, Brockman and the
Rub}'. At each place there are a few fOssickers. Durack’s
mine at Ruby was putting through a crushing with
a one-stamp battery, employing two men, _ and a
cyanide plant was about to be erected. I Should imagine
the tailings would go more than the crushing.
At various places natives are supposed to be provided
with rations by the police, for whioh they receive Is. per
head a day. t watclied the feeding Of these poor,
miserable, emaciated beings dressed in rags. Each one
carried an old jam or other tin, into which a policeman
dumped some “ bubble bubble,” which is merely paste.
Some received also the bones of a goat. The police at one
place recently bought 160 goats for £3O. And this is what
a paternal Government is paying for.l No tea or anything
else; a piece of tobacco may or may not be given on
Sunday. A nice penny somebody must be making out of
this!
East Kimberley musters about 300,000 cattle, mostly
owned by Copley and Patterson, Emanuel and Co., and
Connor, Doherty and Durack. Copley made a great deal
here. Bought the Ord River property with 45,000 head
at 30S. a head. During the vear sold 7000 head at £lO
per head. Then bought the Sturt and Margaret
properties, with 25.000 at £2. This year they ship 12,000
south. Kidman will have to look out for Copley.
There are some 100.000-acre men in East Kimberley
who do all right. But the cattle-ring holds them and
gives them any price it likes. A beast is bought here for
£5 and sold in Fremantle for £lO. This cattle business is
good biz—for the ring.
“ Combo-ism ”is the order of the day. Everyone (more
or less) has a sable “companion.” On the road to
Wyndham you meet some curious turnouts and see some
funny sights. Ebony damsels in pants and long turkey-
red gowns accompany every conceivable conveyance.
You get Miss Ebony at every meal hour. In fact, the
only topic from jackass to jackass is ebony girl. But
drop the curtain. #
“ Edyson ” : I have just heard from a
youth of Richmond (Melb.), who, in the absence
of a stiddy job at his own game, was per-
suaded to go on the land, young man. He
took a billet with a cocky farmer at
moderate rates and keep. His rail-
way fare, a registry-office fee, and
a trifle of expenses were to be
deducted from his income as
it fell due. On the fifth
day he was put to man-
age a mad harrow agi-
tated by two nags of
incompatible temper.
The horses bolted, and
in the struggle the youth
in charge got his right
hand crushed. While
the injured member was
being done up in a
bundle, the irritated
cocky was putting a
horse in the trap. “Drive him
in to the town,” he said sourly to
Mrs. Cocky, “and bring out an-
other bloke if you can get one.”
The youth was driven in, and
simply dumped off the trap near a
country station, eand left there,
penniless, sick with pain, and
faint from loss of blood. When
found by a humane grocer, he
was lying by the road, almost un-
conscious. He is now a hospital
patient in Melbourne, and is told that he
may not be able to use his hand for six
months. Still, the shocking scarcity of agricultural
labor in the country districts is due to Socialistic
legislation, and that scarcity is ruining our
primary industries, and rapidly driving capital
to the regions that lie around the head waters of
the Amazon.
<i » *
“ Mallacoota ” : A bushvnan lately showed
me a handy way of keeping a fire alive. We were
going out back from the hut for a three .days’hunt
after cattle. My mate reckoned it would be
pleasant to have the tire burning when we came
home. So he went out with a tomahawk, and cut
a chunk of bark from the south side of a white box
tree. This he covered over carefully with hot
ashes and a few coals. When we came back on
the evening of the third day he scraped away the
covering of ashes, and the box bark was just nice
red coals. Bark on the south side of a tree —the
side furthest from the sun—is thicker and more
sappy than northern bark, therefore best for this
purpose.
If your complaint is incurable you must
bear your sufferings with patience, but if they can
be quickly and permanently cured, why let them
go on? Rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia, tooth-
ache —all these are among the many ailments that
can be cured by Chamberlain’s Pain Balm, and
since they are most wearying—and Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm only costs Is. 6d. per bottle —why go
on suffering ?*
THE SWAGMAN'S JOKE.
OLD LADY: “I don't think I ever saw a more wretched-looking creature. Why don't you
wash yourself !”
TRAVELLER: "Too, busy, lady—too busy scourin' the country."
“Lad”: Although I long ago learned
from experience that goats are impervious to the
effects of strychnine, I have just discovered that
the same fact applies to the iguana. A friend of
mine—a rabbit trapper —camped on the Tumut
River (N.S.W.), was much troubled with the
visits of a “gohanner” to the commissariat de-
partment of his camp. Besides these losses the
camper one day missed about 20 rabbit skins.
The trapper laid a bait with a mixture of strych-
nine. The “go ” devoured the bait, and came up
for more next day. Again and again the rabbiter
laid the poison for him, but the animal proved
quite strychnine-proof. The trapper then filled a
defunct rabbit with enough of the poison to kill a
bullock, and the animal ate that lot also, and was
around next day with a smile on its countenance.
After that the attempt to poison the “ gohanner ”
was given up. The expense was too great. I
think a fight between a gohanner and a chemist’s
shop would be worth seeing, the chemist’s shop to
have two yards start.
WASTED OPPORTUNITIES.
Abraham: “ You vos frightfully extravagant! ”
BILL: “ 'Ow do yer make that outV'
ABRAHAM: “ Veil, ven a man owes such a lot off
money as you do, rone would expegt dot he
would haf saved a good deal off it, but you
say dot you haven't de price of two thripcnny
beers.”
“ M. W.” : Talk about snails for slowness !
The “gum grubs” beat’em bad. Tramping over
the hill-track for my mail the other morning, I
happened on a heap of 60 or 70 of them travelling
from one eucalypt to another. They moved so
slowly that I thought I’d time them. Made a
mark, and on returning found they had crawled
just 14in. in three-quarters of an hour. Perhaps
they might have made better pace singly ; but they
hugged each other all the way like lovers in the
dark. Walking the same track in the evening
I found the heap on a messmate bole, about 6ft.
from the ground. They were tracking slowly up
with much show of exertion. I wondered what
their weight-carryingcapabilities were, so fastened
a box of matches on to the hindmost “grub” with
a postage stamp. They kept going without any
extra show of exertion, so I used up another post-
age stamp and stuck my pipe to the matchbox.
They didn’t even look round to see who was
pulling. I used up fourpence in stamps, and
directly they had my %\ b. plug and a bush-
knife trailing on behind them. Then a bull-ant
said insulting things to me through a break in my
boot, and in the excitement of applying bracken-
root juice and of dislodging another bull from a
loose portion of my pants, I forgot all about the
other'nature study. But I’ve got an idea now
for breeding grubs to haul redgum logs to the
sawmill for me.
“ Wang ” and liis python :
I was reading recently that somebody had found out
how to make spirits out of grass trees. Which served to
remind me of the first time I ever saw one of these trees.
There had been a flood in the Moorabolta Creek, on the
banks of which my boss had his domicile. I had lately
gone through a course of adventure stories, in which
snakes and crocodiles of huge dimensions played promi-
nent parts.
A day or two after the flood had subsided I was stum-
bling along the banks of our Amazon, reading of the ad-
ventures of a party of buccaneers in the wilds of South
America. In the tale pythons 50ft. long occurred at fre-
quent intervals. On turning a bend in the creek I dis-
covered, high and dry on the bank, a huge sinuous object
covered with scales.
I gazed on the awful thing for a moment, and then tore
frantically home to the boss. In answer to his inquiries
re my unusual hurry, I imparted an incomprehensible
narrative, of which a huge scaly reptile formed part.
The boss armed himself with an axe ; I loaded up with a
pick, and then I guided the expedition to the scene of
horror.
Approaching the bend we took off our boots so as not
to disturb the creature. Then we tip-toed cautiously
along with our weapons ready.
From behind a sheltering red-gum I peeped, and saw
that the monster of iniquity hadn’t moved.
I reckoned it was too gorged to move. All the boa-
constrictors on the banks of the Amazon were helpless
when gorged.
I rushed bravely at it, and smote hard with the pick.
The boss seconded my efforts with the axe. The reptile
never even wriggled.
Tnen the boss started to chase me with murder in his
eye. For the scaly object we had attacked was nothing
more than a grass tree that had been washed down from
the forest.
The boss confiscated my stock of adventure yarns that
. night.
THE BEETLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From small beginnings mighty structures rise ;
The puling babe becomes the prophet wise,
And microscopic seeds put tendrils out
That, growing, clutch the earth and probe the skies.
So small inventions bring about reforms,
And catchwords oft create politic storms ;
A trumpet-call sets armies on the inarch ;
A phrase cools all a nation’s blood, or warms.
And thus a weed, brought from some Old Land lake
By some romantic wife for old sake’s sake,
Prospering largely in a newer soil
May fierce possession of a province take.
And thus some harmless tenant of the mead
Transported to a virgin land, and freed,
May bear such increase under gentler skies
Till it usurp the land in very deed.
So knew not Jackson, though no dullard he,
And heard the tale of pests from sea to sea ;
Forgot experience bought at countless cost,
Nor calculated what results might be.
He found, while travelling, on an island bare,
A curious beetle, monstrous, weird and rare,
With mandibles of steel that riddled wood
However tough, nor left a shred to spare.
“ I wish,” said Jackson, “ we had some of these
To clear our country of the cursed trees ;
Methinks I’ll take a few and try them there.”
He caught some dozen of the scarabees.
On Jackson’s farm the timber was a curse ;
Slumps, trees and logs ; and all around was worse.
The labor of destroying eucalypts
Was still the ancient problem of the purse.
But now—he set his beetles on the task ;
“Only dead wood, and lots of it, they ask ! ”
He said, and watched them masticate his logs.
He could sit down and see them work, and bask.
First a huge red-gum stump he set them on,
And lo ! within an hour the stump was gone,
And they had started on a grey-box log ;
With huge contentment Jackson’s visage shone.
Within a month, much had their tribe increased,
Nor had their hunger ever flagged or ceased,
Full half the trees on Jackson’s land were gone,
The neighboring blocks he slyly bought, or leased.
They moved, the beetles, in a steady line,
Cleaning up every log that lay supine ;
Not a dry chip was left, nor yet a root;
Of stump or solid tree remained no sign.
One night, as Jackson chuckled in his bed,
He heard the rafters creaking overhead ;
A thousand heads popped through the riddled floor.
He dragged his clothes bn hurriedly, and fled.
Returning just at daylight, Jackson found
His house a seething ruin on the ground ;
The sheds were tottering, and the fences down,
And infinite destruction raged around.
’Twas then he sa\£\that hungry multitude
Ate not alone the'uead and solid wood,
But everything save metal, earth and stone,
All things organic came to them as food.
And, worse and worse, with horror Jackson found
They left some subtle poison in the ground,
For not a seed would sprout, or plant take root;
And barren desolation spread around.
Then with winged feet he to a neighbor sped,
Crying assistance in his growing dread ;
He found the beetles there before himself,
And all the household from its ruin fled.
So the wide ring of desolation grew.
Up to the township on the hill it drew ;
And men, in utter fear, were hurrying back,
While others for some hoped assistance flew.
At length a man of readier wit was found—
“ Dig a wide ditch, and hem the plague-spot round. .
Fill it with burning logs by night and day
And keep the beetles to the stricken ground ! ”
And so men worked as never yet before,
With axe and spade, and kept the flames a-roar ;
The heavy waggons rolled by day and night,
And all the country-side was laboring sore.
As Jackson hid within a hut hard bj r
He watched the battle with a bloodshot eye ;
And ever in his beard he muttered hoarse,
“I thank the Lord that species cannot fly ! ”
At last, by dint of working day and night,
The grimed men triumphed in that arduous fight.
The hungry hordes hissed dying in the flames,
And sudden end o’ertook the sudden blight.
Now Jackson has a little farm out West.
His strenuous life his knotted hands attest.
He grubs and burns the timber, as of old —
And thinks the old laborious methods best.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprieior
THE SERF.
PARSON : “Are you a freethinker?”
WAYBACK : “ Wall, it's 'cordin' wher ’ t’ missus
is!”
“ Wang” muses on strange foods :
The other day I was given a flagon of “bulled tea”—
tea, to wit, that has been warmed up several (not to say
dozens of) times. Somehow the awful flavor of it brought
back to me the days of my dead j-outh, when I used to
devour 'most anything with aviditj'.
I and my companions thought in those happy times
that the seeds of the common marsh-mallows were ex-
cellent provender. We used to call them “bread and
cheese.” Also, we approved the leaves of the flowering
stock. They were hot, and had a remote resemblance to
water-cress.
Wild cherries we scoffed whenever and wherever we
found them.
Another dessert item was the she-oak apple—a cross
between a bitter aloe and a paving-stone. Cranberries,
ripe or otherwise, we punished as though they had been
guilty of crime. The bark of young elm trees we esteemed
a good substitute for chewing-gum. And then there was
wattle gum. Ah, that wattle gum ! Ask any bush kid
his opinion of it. I used to think the heavenly menu
would be incomplete lacking wattle-tree gum. There was
a small tuber we were wont to pull up out of the ground
and eat raw. It had something the flavor of a diseased
onion. We knew it as the “ Chinese onion.” I have fre-
quently eaten samples of all these edibles in the course of
one day—and seen my young friends do the same. For
which reason I think that Nebuchadnezzar will hold no
points as a digestive marvel over the Australian kid when
the Last Trump has sounded and we all sit yarning in
Heaven about the dashed amazing things we did when the
earth was alive.
The Pills Laxo-Tonic have none
To outrival them under the sun.
A permanent cure
They’ll effect, this is sure;
It begins when you’ve taken but one.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, and Is. 6d.«
IRONMONGERY.
“Why did 'e ’ammer 'erf" " 'CoS she nailed 'is screw!”
“ Cqalopolis ” : Some very remarkable
aboriginal cave-paintings and sculptures exist in
the valley of the Glenelg River, in North-west
Australia, about 60 mile3 inland, and about 20
miles south of Prince Regent’s River, in a very
rugged tract of country. The figures consist of
representations of human heads and bodies, ap-
parently of females, clothed to the armpits, but
all the faces are without any indication of mouths.
The heads are all surrounded with a broad kind of
head-dress or halo, and one of the figures wears a
necklace. The drawings are executed in bright
red on a clear white ground, the clothing marked
with a red pattern, and the broad hat or halo in
some of the figures is done in blue, red and yellow.
The figures are nearly life-size, and the largest is
on the sloping roof of a cave, appearing to look
down upon the visitor. There are also some draw-
ings of kangaroos, far more finished than anything
done by modern aborigines. On the roof
of another cave was found a paint-
ing, 10ft. high, of a figure dressed
in a loose red garment from neck
to ankles, the hands and feet
well executed, and the latter
apparently covered with
shoes. The white face is
mask-like, showing the
eyes only, around which
are circular concentric
bandages, the inner one
yellow, the outer red, look-
ing something like a broad
cap and outer bonnet. On
the upper part of this are five
letters or characters having an
Asiatic aspect. Although poorly
1 executed, these figures all have a re-
fined appearance, quite out of keeping
with Australian nigger art. Very near
one of the caves is to be found on a large
vertical sandstone rock a well-executed
human head hollowed out to about
deep in the centre, the head being 2ft.
in length and 16in. broad. The singu-
larity of it is that it is perfectly European
in type, both in form of head and
features. The only other paintings which
appear to have a similar character are
those discovered by Captain Flinders on
Chasm Island on the north-east coast,
and which have been preserved in a
sketch by an A.R.A. who accompanied
Flinders as artist. These form a long pro-
cession of rude human figures, all appar-
ently clothed in long garments of pale red.
Near the head of the procession is a tall
male figure, with arms out-stretched
and holding a stick, and towards
the middle is an equally tall
female figure. There are. also
some turtles and a swordfish
pretty well drawn. Near the
caves on the Glenelg River are also to be
found two curious large square mounds. These
are formed of loose stones, but are perfect
parallelograms in outline, and are placed due east
and west. They must have been heaped up with
great care, since they are finished to a sharp ridge
with triangular ends, just like the roof of a
building. Both are exactly the same length,
22ift., but they differ somewhat in width and
height.. The third mound was opened, but
nothing was found inside it but a quantity of fine
sand.
“ Itan ” : Bathurst has enough pests of its
own, including the Big Estate Incubus, without
accusing the place of the vegetable burr. It is a
Scotch importation, brought out in the tails of a
pair of Shetland ponies in the ’forties by pastoral-
ists Ford and Cummings. On arrival, the hair of
the animals was matted with the spiny seeds, and
they were combed out and allowed to drop or fly
round anywhere. Now most of Australia knows
and curses the Bathurst burr.
* * * *
“ Argo ” : “ Jimmie Pannikin ” is a more
or less faithful chronicler of the vicissitudes of
Outback, but I have not yet noticed that he has
written anything about the extreme heat. I
therefore hasten to do so. At Birdsville (Queens-
land) last summer I was having dinner with a
friend. The housemaid entered the room, and
was instantly reduced to a heap of ashes. My
friend, noticing my consternation, explained that
it was quite a common occurrence out there, and
unconcernedly ordered the cook to “ Sweep Polly
up—and bring in the pudding.” “Jim-Pan”
may have heard of many such instances.
“ I can sincerely recommend Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy to all who
are attacked with bowel complaints,” writes Mr.
George Adams, of Albury, N.S.W., “for it is a
wonderful medicine, and does all that is claimed
for it. Luckily when out in the country a few
days ago, I had a bottle with me, for I met a friend
doubled nearly in two with colic. I only gave him
one dose, yet it effected an immediate cure. I
always keep a bottle of Chamberlain's Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy by rue.”*
“ Mallarapoonie ” about a horror :
We were travelling down a far western river, in the
front end of the Big Drought, with 1200 stores for Her-
gott. Everything went swimmingly, so to speak, until
we struck a 70-mile drj' stage south of the border. A
moonless night on a trackless lygonurn waste forced us
to camp the third night without water. We double-
banked half-night watches that night, as the cattle were
restless and famishing. The first half-night passed rest-
lessly enough, with many deep complaining's from the
herd and disturbed upheavals of beef on camp. The boss
and two other stockmen relieved my watch at midnight,
and soon after we had turned in a soft night wind came
wafting from the sou’-w.est across the miles of lygonurn
flats bearing with it the odor of dankness from some
scarcely dried-up swamp.
Immediately a deep low moan from the famished herd
greeted the gentle breeze, and a thousand horned heads
were lifted to sniff the tainted zephyrs. Then arose the
dull rattle of many cloven hooves slowly on the move,
and presently a stern “ Whoa back, there 1” and the
quick snarl of a stockwhip came out of the moonless
night.
We listened. A sharp order rang across the cattle
camp above the sullen moan of thirsty brutes. Soon fol-
lowed, out of the dust and darkness, sounds significant to
a stockman’s ear —the click-clacking of cloven hooves on the
run ; the strong, quick tramp of a galloping horse ; a volley
of stockwhip cuts ; some curses ; and then a dull, muffled
roar drowning all. The cook sat up in his blankets under
the dray, and listened. “ They’re gone !” he regretfully
remarked. “They’re gone; an’ we’re bagmen on th’
river in th’ mornin’.”
1 gave an order to collar the first available horses, and
follow on, and, jumping on a spare night horse, I lit out
after the receding herd. I came up with the pande-
monium of curses, whip-cracks, and sullen bellowings in
little more than a mile, and sat for a moment on my horse
surveying the scene by the faint starlight. It was a half-
dry gilghi among the lygonurn flats to which the cattle
had rushed in the agony of their thirst. But not a beast
had drunk. That blackguard rush had carried the leaders
in and had whipped the 4ft. of blue silt, slime, and stag-
nation into the consistency of porridge, through which
the herd now moved, goring, trampling, slaughtering,
bellowing in their impotenev, while scores were down in
it, smothering, Writhing, struggling. It was a terrible
fight we fought there against agonised brute force before
we drove them Lack and rounded them on a plain. Dawn
showed a pitiable sight. Some 300 gored and trampled
beasts, some bogged but living, some dead, lay in and
about that sludge hole. It took us till 10 a.m, to haul
out the survivors, with the dray-horses and chains, and
we left 137 great carcases to fester in the sun
PARTICULAR.
STOUT PARTY (relating row with the new neigh-
bor): “She says ter me, ‘Come an ’ave r'
drink, Missus Brown.' But lup an ’ sez, 'I
don’t touch it, thank you. An another thing)
I sez, 'I never drink with strangers)”
“A.H.8.”: It was my first experience
amongst sugar cane. Hence I was greatly sur-
prised to be wakened up at four o’clock in the
morning and told to come and have “ something
to eat.” I never dreamt, let alone imagined, that
sugar-farmers were generous enough to wake a
fellow up in the middle of the night and give him
a feed. And as I sat down to a steaming mug of
tea, a big plate of salt-junk and a loaf of home-
made bread, with a basin of fresh butter in the
distance, I was highly delighted with things in
general. But it killed my enthusiasm stone dead,
and damned the reputation of that sugar-cockv-
fellow for ever when he told m« I would find a
cane knife outside,
The distinctive flavor of “ Bouvnville” Cocoa is
the outcome of a special process of manufacture.
All “Bournville” Cocoa is manufactured by Cad-
bury’s at the model factory at Bourn ville, England.*
VOICES OP THE NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, the sweet, the dreamy languor, when the city’s
throbbing clangor
At the chiming strokes of midnight dies away,
O’er my spirit it comes stealing as those solemn strokes
are pealing,
Which proclaim the death and burial of a day.
Ceases now the dreadful clatter, leaving but the soothing
patter
Of the hoof-gear of a slowly pacing “John.”
In the place of noise and vi’lence comes the brain-
refreshing silence
Prom which all nerve-racking elements are gone.
Then I wait the joys of slumber, -when no cares my mind
encumber,
And my dreams are blest with crowds of visions bright.
Peace unfoldeth like a brolly ; then I find my hopes are
folly,
And there come the many voices of the night.
First, the mice behind the skirting start an acrobatic
flirting,
Till they weary of the game and give it best;
Then my next-door neighbor’s bantam, like a shrill,
accusing phantom,
Chucks the burden of his heartache off his chest.
Every soulful choral feline for my garden makes a bee-
line,
There to warble out her anguish to the moon ;
Hour by hour persists their yowling, varied only by the
howling
Of some mongrel to whom death would be a boon.
Hark ! that tiny note that’s shrilling, till the air is all
a-thrilling,
By its sound my restless tossing is increased.
Was there ever music sweeter than the anthem of the
skeeter,
Hastening eager, with his loins girt, to the feast?
Can it be the row is over? Oh, my spirit is in clover.
For I yet may snatch some fragment of repose.
Give me but another minute to get fairly settled in it,
And softly will I sink into a doze.
Fool! The rabble, sharp and urgent, of the flying cow-
juice merchant,
Nips my nascent aspirations in the bud ;
And the early morning paper, ’twixt the door-mat and
the scraper,
Strikes the floor of my verandah with a thud.
How my head and limbs are aching as the new-born day
is breaking,
And the sunlight through the window starts to peep.
I may fling aside the curtain, for ’tig absolutely certain
I’ll not get another blessed wink of sleep.
VICTORIA,
KARAN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Roxburgh : We don’t recommend you to go to
Queensland, because we don’t know you, and you may
or may not be the sort of man the country would suit.
All we say is, that it is a dashed good country in a general
way The Slab : An old story, as you say V.P.: “I
remember, I remember,” merely a schoolgirl imitation of
vapid doggerel. Also the man who sleeps in the open,
with nothing on but ammonia and a pair of gloves, is
bound to be popular with mosquitoes A.P. (Darling-
hurst) : A fool of a politician is beguiled by a common-
place*Delilah. But why make a story about it and call it
“ The Vagaries of a Radical ” ? Why not “ The Wiles of a
Tory,” or “The Feet of Nebuchadnezzar,” or plain
“ Rubbish ” ? ... J.O. (Auckland): The philosophy of “ The
Jester's Mission ” is all right. Otherwise it doesn’t call for
comment Folle-farine : “In Explanation” explains
nothing... .Pat: A good parody is bad enough ; but a bad
one—like yours—unless it is shockingly bad, is hopeless...
John Bright: This paper sympathises with any theatre-
goer who sits near giggling girls who rhapsodise in huge
hats over the charms of a beauty actor ; but it deolinesto
publish your verses F.B. : When the Maorilander,
with a Dreadnought under his arm, is chatting over the
ruins of London with the Kaiser, he will be telling him,
in German, the true story of “Pelqrus Jack,” and the
Kaiser will fall dead and Lord Mayor Taylor will be
avenged. And then your story will come in handy to
restore the circulation of the London Timks. .. Toolooa :
Yarn about an angry passenger and a cheeky official not
exciting. Besides, we don’t believe there ever was such
a thing as a cheeky official .. A.S. (Winton, M.L.): Poem
about “A man who wanted land” herewith gracefully
declined. Very prudent of your hero to
Stick to kids and missus
With their cuddle, love and kisses,
And let the blanky Go-
vernment keep their blanky blanky land.
Noel E. M.: Like your hero, we’re off “Triantelopes.”
.. .Mollie Bawn : Perhaps the girl knew what she was
about when she preferred the Teddy Bear to her young
man Mole (Perth): “ A Fast Spree” is just as Inter-
esting as the report of a police-court case about a
traveller being robbed by a bush publican... .S.M.W.:
Your story doesn’t begin till it’s half way and
there’s so much gush about the “sable wings of night”
and “ the goddess Aurora, resplendent in her crimson
glory ” and “ the cramping embrace of his amoroso " and
his “cryptic accuser” that it might just as well not
have begun till after the end...,M. : “The Magic
Circle ” —telling how the virtuous schoolgirl has to wear
short frocks whilst her erring sister gets married and
wears “corsets, camisoles, petticoats, dresses, hair-
frames and hats ” —is not moral enough for this paper....
Minko: “Moisture, Ltd.,” chiefly noteworthy for your
variation of “ Fat Man,” but even “a portly member of
the country’s vertebras ” loses its charm after an hour or
50....M.M. : Story about a lady fox who eats ohiokens
doesn’t thrill us... .E.J.M. :It must be painful enough
to be killed in a railway accident, but to have an elegy
like yours written about one afterwards is a refinement
of torture which this paper can't encourage....E.W.K.
(Manly): “ Old Age ’’ would be more like poetry if some
slight regard had been paid to metre and rhythm, It’s
an extraordinary popular delusion that one makes poetry
by cutting up commonplace prose into short lengths.
Same remarks apply also to j our “ Three Patriots.”
Jobber : You have had pars, accepted, so manifestly you
aren’t hopeless. Whether you continue writing or drop
it in disgust is your affair ; for our part, wild elephants
shall not induce us to print unsuitable stuff—not though
it emanates from the oldest and most crusted subscriber
this paper ever owned The Wag: Terms vary a great
deal according to the quality of the stuff... ,L.F.: One
joke old; t’other poor. Both are now dead.,..Nordo :
Can’t quite fathom the trouble that drove you to
write “ Matilda,” but one verse goes by reason of its
strange, wild melancholy :
Oh cursed be I that proved so false.
A double curse upon me fall
Surround me by the highest wall
And let the devils jeer me in their hellish waltz.
S. Watt: Verses fairly well done, but they are all too
hymnal for our pages Ginger (Balmoral): Chatty note
to hand beginning “ We have had a nice fall of rain, and
everything looks good now ; (he sports here on Easter
Saturday were a big success, and drew a large crowd, a
hundred people or more being present.” Always pleased
to hear about rain and sports and things, but we don’t
traffic in that sort of news Nix: You break no fresh
meat, so to speak, in “ The Sausage and we are unable
to resolve the problein of why J.C.W. doesn’t exclude
Chows from “An Englishman’s H0me.”....1na Wren :
Confused and weary yarn about voluminous Smiths who
quarrel about 16s. increases our respect for the scattered
nation bearing that name. The other literature, detail-
ing the trial and acquittal of Jack Moss, who develops
later into John Ross, is too pathetio.... Yalla :Islt a joke
or merely an epic poem?... Batcher : Even Moses had to
submit his work twice. Also, it was badly broken the
first time, and has been more or less violently broken ever
since. Yours is now a melancholy wreck,... W.N.8.:
Of interest only to a limited family circle—very limited,
... .J.M.G., Penrith : Considered, as requested. No use
for them.... Pacific Rover : There are two full stops, and
not another mark of punctuation in your three eight-line
stanzas. Another full stop herewith cheerfully added,.,,
Gallia: A dear who “cries out for love as a camel for
water in the throes of a desert,” a wife who is “ only a
referee ” to her husband, and a lovely other woman—
these be hopeful circumstances for a moving tale. But
what they’re doing in your gruesome narrative about a
baby who is thoughtfully murdered bj' his little brother
and sister is a prize puzzle Crip : Your little pieces
about boilers and promoted engine-drivers and a boiler,
maker who becomes a member of Parliament—all gone
to the scrap-heap F.H.C. : If there had been no trees
there would be no Melbourne, and because there are trees
in the Northern Territory, “that virgin property
has been preserved from the squatter in all its
primitive virginal state for the Commonwealth.”
Therefore, you say, worship the gum-tree. A
scientific forestry system would be more sensible....
S. McK. : This “valuable and interesting weekly”—to
quote your attack—would soon be neither if it printed
hoary yarns in rickety verse, like your “Micky Brown’s
Annuity,” for instance... C.A. : The only line In “The
Battle of Trafalgar ” that’s worth printing is:
“ England expects that ev’ry man this day will do his
duty ”
—and that sounds familiar J. 0.: What sort of winter
are you giving us? It’s not poetry but rubbish to talk
of “ winter’s wild legions in murderous chase ” in Aus-
tralia. “ The Gorgons ” leave us stony....F.T. : “ Where
‘ Dead Leaves ’ lie, the wind howls weird and h0110w.’*....
W-W.: “ Dele” deleted H. Llewellyn : Kindergarten.
ish Cict: Lament over shut-up pub too much for
our sympathetic 50u1.... G.B.D. : We have stored
up “Death” anent our next bout of insomnia.
It is a soporific in blank verse form.,. .R.E.W.:
“Lover’s Memory” is too dreary D.H.M. : Not un.
usual enough. All backblock sheets revel in such
items Helensburgh Workmen’s Club: “A” is right.
The Civil List amounts to £470,000 per annum, and the
annuities to the Royal Family total about £106,000.


THE TALE OF
MR. BROWN.
FOR THE BULLETIN.
'THERE was a crafty editor—
-1 (Of course, you understand
That this was long before the light
Of reason lit the land).
There was a crafty editor - .
Whose calculating mind.
Controlled a mighty ,daily
Of the ''.influential"' kind.
It wgs the,”Morning Megaphone";
Twas popularly said
To ev'ry corner of the land
Its circul. lion: spread'.
For it was read
By Smith-a'nd Smythe. and Lane
and Lee;
Murphy, Morphy and Magee,
Puddlefoot and Pd.nsonby ;
Read with rare avidity ..
By quite, nine hundred thousand folk
of ev'ry walk in life.
Indeed, by all the populace, its sister,
and its. wife.-
Now this very crafty editor—'
(I wish 'to' make, it clear
That this Was.ere men knew their
minds.
Or spoke them, Minus fear). '
This very crafty editor
Conceived a crafty plan
To boost, the circulation
Of the paper that he ran,
I n short, his scheme was to create,
With journalistic zeal,
A Popular Opinion,
And produce a Public Squeal
That would, appeal
To Smith and Smythe, and Lane
and Lee,
Murphy, Morphy and Magee,
• Puddlefoot and Ponsonby—
Men whose perspicacity
Was not above the common, but the
object was to swell
The ardor of the Public and its
aunt as well.
Now at this time Josiah Brown-- tj
■ (I trust you grasp the fact
Twas. long before men pleased ;
themselves ■ ,|j
How they should think and act).
Josiah Brown, plain citizen,.
Lay snug a : bed and. dreamed;
Nor thought, nor knew, nor ever-
heard - T . J -
Of that the pressrnan schemed.
Nor troubled to consider,.
Or supoose, or. speculate
That a Mighty Public Question
• cried -.'.W' __ ■ %
For him to arbitrate.
And in like state
Slept Smith' and Smyt.hr, and Lane
and Lee," . ... . Hi)
Murphy,. Mcrohy-and Magee, ,
. Puddle loot and- Ponsonby
Independent men'and free—' _ -1
And mine hu'ndr.ed; thousand, others, j
each grid ev’ryione inclined
To congratulate hims-eif upon his*'
. hardy strength .of mind. .
■ • ; '*W' L ' -' hi
At breakfast time Josiah Brown
Was much surprised to find
That a red-hot Public Question
Exercised the Public Mind..
And ev'ry man of any worth,
Except himself, it seemed,
Had been moved to clamor loudly
While he slept and drowsed and
__ dreamed.
i hen he waxed enthusiastic,
And he banged the breakfast board,
And vowed that all along he’d
voiced: " v ; •• , v
The popular accord.
in-like’vein roared
The Smiths and Smythes, and Lanes.
■ . and; Lees,
Ivturphys. Morphys and Magees,
Puddlefoots and Ponsont&s —
: Each and. ev’ry,'ort.e of these,'
In fact,-the Gieat,-6lad r Pu‘blic and
■ its cousin twice:
Vowed; thpy’d inwardly digested this ,
Great Question and approved.-
' The very crafty editor |
' Lay low and gently smiled,
Wnile the Public rent its shirt,
and grew
Hysterical and wild.
And proudly did Josiah Brown
Protrude his manly chest.
He delivered public speeches
which
Were cheered • like all the rest;
And vaguely he. suspected that.
Before the fuss began,
Within his inmost mind of minds
He had conceived the plan.
So, to a man, '
Did- Smith and Smythe, and Lane
and Lee,
Murphy, Morphy and Magee,
Dash and Dingle, Prout and Pringle,
Puddlefoot and Ponsonby,
And a million thinking units of the
Great Democracy.
(But, of course, it must have happened
when the world was very young,
And no one thought his private
thoughts before he loosed his
-public tongue.)
Victoria
C J. DENNIS,
DREADNOUGHT AND YASSBERRA ENTHUSIASMS, AND HOW THEY ORIGINATE.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WHEN Jack has got his
pay he’s the gayest of
the gay, and he almost
invariably invests in a tin of
CHERRY BLOSSOM POLISH.
He knows that it goes further
and gives better results than
any other boot polish sold.
You’ll find it grand in the
winter time, too, and should
sample a tin this week. Black
or tan for 3d. and 6d. —largest
tins sold. Write us if you can-
not tret supplied.
ĥ
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Weak
Lungs.
The unique healing properties of our
special petroleum, combined with the
tonic effects of the hypophosphites,
make Angier’s Emulsion superior
to all other remedies
for coughs and lung
affections. No other
Emulsion has the
same soothing, cough-
allaying, lung - healing
power nor the same
tonic effect upon appe-
tite and digestion. It
is the most perfect and
most palatable of all
Emulsions. For free
sample send 4d. postage.
Of all chemists, 1/3,2/9 &4/6.
mm
ANGIERS
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
The Angler Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“ Adelaide ” : It is alleged (B. 25/3/’O9)
that the N.S.W. Bench is “a model in the
matter of propriety to the other Benches of Aus-
tralia ! ” No, not to the Bmich of S. A., which has
nothing to learn in that respect. Nothing what-
ever ! (World’s competition invited, and color
line not drawn.) It is simply impossible to be
more proper than Chief Justice Way, or Justices
Boucaut and Bundey, who sat with him as a
Bench, unbroken, for 20 years—another record ;
or than Gordon and Homburg, who have latterly
been made Judges. True, Gordon was, while at
the Bar, probably the finest poker-player in Ade-
laide—if there is any harm in that; but even that
mild dissipation he gave up on ascending the
Bench, just as a divinity student may give up
dancing on taking Orders, and for the same
reason. No. As Ichabod Bronson says, in the
Field of Moral Endeavor, no Competitor can Shake
a Stick at us.
THE DREADNAUGHT NIGHTMARE.
He bad already taken part in four Dreadnought meet-
ings in N.S.W., and they went with a swing.— BRUCE
SMITH.
After-effects of a niglit-out with B. Smiths, Laud
Mayors, and a few title-hunting citizens.
Enabling, of the Vic. Upper House, lately
told his fellow members of P’rnu Council that his
grandfather had been the originator of the Eight
Hours inovement, but his father had been a Con-
servative. Thus it takes three generations to run
the gamut of positive, comparative and superla-
tive—Democrat, Tory and Rich Landlord.
“Lantana”: Alderman Thomas Glissan,
Mayor of Ulmarra, is turning his robes of office
out to grass this month. He has worn the gaudy
rags for 16 years without a break —probably a
record for N.S. W. Everyone is sorry Thomas is
going. But he is firm. It is understood that he
fears if he doesn’t desist resolutely and at once
from being a mayor he will get to look like one
about the face, a contingency to be dreaded by
any man with a sense of the ridiculous.
Mr. Marmaduke Webster, who died re-
cently at Orange (N.S.W.), bad seen some life
in Australia. As a youth he came to Mel-
bourne in 1853, attracted, like many others,
by the gold discoveries. He made his way
to Bendigo, and for 20 years there was not a
rush of any note at which Marmaduke was
not present. “Old Yorkey,” as he was
called, held at various times interests in
many valuable claims. Eight years of his
life were spent in. Maoriland, and while
there he took a hand under the ad venturer
Von Tempsky against the Maoris. Return-
ing to Australia he tried his luck at Mt.
Wheeler (Q.) and Gulgong (N.S.W.). His
last gold-seeking was at the disastrous Mount
Browne (N.S.W.) rush, and on the track to
that remote horror he and a companion
narrowly escaped death from thirst. When
he returned from Mount Browne he gave up
gold chasing and settled at Orange, where he
resumed his ancient and peaceful avocation
of carpentering.
A. A. Dangar, one of N.S. W.’s £lO,OOO
Dreadnoughters, supplied to the S. M.
Herald (30/4/’O9) a column-long letter which
should be nailed in a prominent position
in every bush school as a horrible example of
how not to write the English language. A
sample sentence :
Following on New Zealand’s offer of a Dreadnought,
the idea in the first instance in this State was that the
Commonwealth Government of Australia should offer a
battleship ; that is, that the six States should send suffi-
cient money to the- British Government, say, £2,000,009,
at least, to build one, and if that had been acted upon at
once with decision I believe the money would have been
readily forthcoming, mainly through private subscrip-
tions, all that was wanted being an energetic lead from
the Governments, when the bulk of the people of the States
would have responded, but Mr. Fisher said “No.”
And again :
Mr. Wade hestitated (for valid reasons well explained
in the metropolitan papers of 3rd March), and now, after
much loud talk, we are in a fair way of belittling our-
selves in the eyes of the world, whereas if it had been
otherwise, and even without Canada, Africa, and India
following suit, and each presenting a Dreadnought (this
very possibly might have come about), the moral effect
of such an action would have been enormous, and simi-
larly the best insurance fund that could have been
effected for us.
A. A. Dangar, anti-Socialist, is a living instance
of the disadvantages of his own doctrine. Had
N.S. W.’s Socialistic State schools been in going
order in his youth, he would perforce have had
the basic principles of English grammar ham-
mered into him, to his own greater glory and the
comfort of those luckless editors on whom his
illiterate efforts are at present unloaded.
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Janet Mrs. Clarke, who died in Melbourne last week,
was the second wife of the first baronet, William John
Clarke, and William John was a son of William John
Turner Clarke—known in the ’fifties as Big Clarke—who
owned landed property in all the States. The deceased
lady was the daughter of Peter Snodgrass, a pioneer of
Port Phillip, who was a member of the first Parliament
elected after separation from New South Wales. Kilmore
was the constituency which he represented. He was
elected Chairman of Committees in 1853. Peter was the
son of Colonel Kenneth Snodgrass, who led the “ forlorn
hope” of the 52nd Regiment at the storming of San
Sebastian, and who was acting-Governor of Van Diemen’s
Land between the departure of Colonel Arthur and the
arrival of Governor John Franklin. He occupied a
similar position in N. S. Wales between the departure of
Governor Bourke and the arrival of Governor Gipps. The
Colonel died at his home at Raymond Terrace in October,
1853. His old mansion on the corner of Kent and
Bathurst streets, Sydney, still stands.
Captain Cook, whose call in at Kurnell,
near Sydney, has again been the subject of the
usual weary annual celebration,
left his widow fairly well to do.
Mrs. Cook passed the balance of
her life in a cottage at Clayton,
near London. She devoted some
strands of a notably luxuriant head
of hair to the making of a watch-
guard, a very common vanity of
the period, and a jeweller—J.
Farrier, of London—applied the
finishing touches. That watehguard
Mrs. Cook presented to Mrs. Elliot-
son, the wife of Dr. Elliotson, a
neighbor, and Mrs. Elliotson passed
it on to her daughter, who carried
it to Australia. It descended from
her to Mr. A. C. Curlewis, of Mel-
bourne, who passed it on to Mr.
H. R. Curlewis, of Stanmore,
(N.S.W.), and he finally passed it
into Sydney Museum, where it
now rests. It is only an indirect
sort of a Cook relic, but it is
more interesting than Cocky Car-
ruthers’ weary clatter about the
deceased mariner.
Again the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Mr. J. T. Wilshire, of Neutral Bay, Sydney, well known
in philanthropic circles, died last week, aged 72. He was
a Sydney native, and the son of a Sydney native. His
grandfather was James Wilshire, who came out as com-
missary’s clerk early in the last century, and in 1805
wedded Miss Esther Pitt, of the early Hawkesbury Pitt
family. Leaving the commissariat, he established a
tannery on Brickfield Hill, the business being continued
by his sons right up to the ’sixties. Mr. J. R. Wilshire,
the second son of the commissary, was one of the first
aldermen of Sydney, and was second mayor of the city.
He also represented Sydney in the first Parliament under
Responsible Government, having as colleagues Robert
Campbell, Charles Cowper and Henry Parkes. The latter
resigned early, and was succeeded by W. B. Dailey. In
the late ’fifties Mr. Wilshire had a seat in the Legislative
Council. He died in 1860. While mayor he gave a fancy
dress ball in the Victoria Theatre to 700 guests, the first
of its kind in Australia. The recently-deceased Mr. Wil-
shire at one time represented Canterbury in the Legisla-
tive Assembly, his colleagues being J. H. Carruthers,
“1.0.G.T.” Hutchison, and “L.0.L.” Wheeler. Two
children of James Wilshire and Esther Pitt, his wife, still
live —a son, born in 1822, and a daughter, who dates from
1824.
Melbourne possesses a quaint creature in
the shape of one Edith Turnbull, an elderly lady
whose anger vents itself on windows. If Edith
happens to have looked on the foaming brown wet-
ness of the beer, or feels out of sorts, or if anybody
reflects on her appearance or her costume, she
indulges in no unseemly epithets or coarse,
jocookly abuse. She doesn’t even hit her derider.
She just wrecks a window. Edith was run in the
other day, charged with her ninth known window,
and decided to take it out. It was the ninth time
she had taken it out.
“AN ENGLISHMANS HOME."
Victoria’s Eureka veterans are rapidly
passing in their checks. Jim Heffernan submitted
his documents the other day, aged 81. He was
one of the first on the spot after the robbing of
the Mclvor gold escort near Heathcote, and
assisted at the big demonstration in Bendigo,
when the miners burnt their licenses and defied
authority. He fought in the Stockade, and beat
Hotham’s myrmidons in a subsequent three days’
scoot for liberty. He was long a Kyneton cele-
brity, and, like many of the Eureka men who did
not go in for politics, he ran a hotel and published
good liquor thereat.
The deceased Archbishop Snath didn’t
spend his whole time fighting with cabmen. One
matter which he attended to with a lynx-like eye
related to marriages between Australians and
foreigners. He interviewed foreign consuls per-
sonally when a marriage of mixed nationalities
was pending, and directed his clergy to scrupu-
lously fulfil all the conditions which foreign law
imposed. There are many ways in which the
fickle alien may marry one of
British birth, and yet, in the eye
of his own country’s law, remain
unmarried and free. For instance,
if a Belgian espouses an Austra-
lian and goes back to Belgium,
either with or without his bride,
a record of the ceremony is re-
quired to be made in Belgium
within three months after his re-
turn, otherwise the marriage is
illegal. French law provides that
a French subject cannot contract
marriage without having pre-
viously published in France the
notice of his or her intention, and
it raises elaborate trouble about
consent of parents. Similar enact-
ments exist in respect of the
marriage laws of Argentina, Aus-
tria, Brazil, Chili, Denmark,
Mexico, Portugal, Russia, Spain,
Sweden, and other places. In
England, at one time, the multi-
tudinous foreigner who repudi-
ated his English wife amounted
to a scandal. There is no doubt
the departed Primate did much to check that sort
of thing in Australia.
“Vigilant” writes:—
Donald Mackinnon, who is being boomed just now as
the rising hope of the Victorian Liberals, is compara-
tively a novice in politics, for he only entered the As-
sembly in 1900. He is a lawyer by trade, a Conservative
by nature, and a big squatter by inheritance; so there
isn’t much room left for Liberalism. As a matter of fact,
Mackiunon’s liberalism is as mythical as G. Keid’s anti-
Sosh. He is a greater trimmer than Swinburne, and is
the eminent “Liberal” leader of a solid party of one.
As a lawyer Mackinnon has more claims to recognition.
He did good work as coadjutor to the late George
Higinbotham (afterwards Chief Justice) in the consolida-
tion of the Victorian statute law in 1889, and his services
were recognised bj' Parliament. Donald was born just
50 years ago, in the Western District of Victoria, where
his father was one of the first to take up pastoral areas.
He married a daughter of the late Judge Binney in 1891,
and there is a large family of small Mackinnons.
A cablegram from Turkey says that it has
been decided not to put ex-Sultan Abdul Hamid
on trial. It would be a dreadfully superfluous
thing to do in any case. So colossal and notorious
a murderer, with 33 years’ accumulation of dead
bodies around him, hardly requires trial. Hang-
ing is the only event his case calls for.
“D.” describes some lawyers:—
It would be hard to conceive two men more unlike than
the Bar leaders who wrestled at Albury (N.S.VV.) last
week over the fate of the awful Mann. Lamb is tall,
pale, clean-shaven, ascetic-looking. Gannon is short,
rubicund, moustachiod, and a bon viveur to the finger-
tips. Lamb is cold, acidly-logical, and precise as to his
mind. He possesses the deliberate ratiocinative intellect
that is to be looked for in one whose position is assured
among the half-dozen finest card-players in Australia.
He disdains oratorical fireworks. If he can’t drive his
point home by solid argument, he lets it go at that, and
retires to the fastnesses of his chambers with a pro-
found pity for the jury’s brain-capacity. Gannon
is eager, vital, flamboyant, unconventional, full of
racy humor, a master of appeal to the feelings
of the good men and true in whose hands lie his client’s
fortunes. Lamb is a lawyer of a high order. Gannon
doesn’t, specialise in this line. He has an invaluable gift
for picking up the law of a case in the shortest possible
time from another ; but he won’t delve it out for him-
self. Lamb is not a gregarious animal. He doesn’t
fraternise with solicitors as such. Briefs took a long
while coming his way, solely owing to his unconquerable
hatred of fore-gathering with potential brief-givers whom
he didn’t fancy as intimates. His aloof temperament in
a community where Bar-work goes largely by favor has
ever militated against his banking account. Now
he is in the satisfactory position that Gentlemen
One have to brief him, though they may never
have revelled a revel with him in their lives.
“Jim” Gannon would get enough work and to spare
if he were far less competent than he is. Everybody
knows and likes him, and he knows everybody. There is
no man at the Bar, with the exception of G. H. Reid, who
can take more liberties with Judges. Even Darley, 0.J.,
was wont to unbend and smile when Gannon jested. It
is not Lamb’s way to crack jokes in the execution of his
duty. To him, the loud cachinnrtion of the unthinking
juryman, usher, or what not, is utterly revolting. In
two things alone do these counsel resemble each other.
Each is a fine speaker in his own style, and they are both
keen racing men. Gannon is an owner and Lamb is an
A.J.C. steward and committeeman.
“ Miles ” : A fresh edition is just out, and
to hand, of W. Jerrold’s life of Red vers (or
Revers’d) Buller. This gladiator was a rich man
ever since 1874. owner of the fine estate of
Downes, at Crediton, Devonshire. - Yet he drew
his pay for all he was worth, and fought
through 10 campaigns in three continents. Little
Melancthon Burton Spurr (Mel. B.) used to say
that Buller was thought more of in South Africa
than any other British general. The most popu-
lar song after the war was “Cheer up, Buller,
My Lad ! ” His career must be read in connec-
tion with the feud between Wolselev and Roberts,
like that between Fisher and Beresford. When
two angry lions roar, along Afric’s sunny shore,
the second votes the first a bore, vide
Duffy and O’Shanassy. Roberts was stung
by Wolseley being called the Only Gen-
eral. Wolseley and Buller were the keenest
chums, though utterly different. Wolseley was
the typical French officer, while the grim, stolid
Buller was the German sort. His services in-
cluded India, the Anglo-French Expedition to
Pekin, Canadian Rebellion, Ashanti War, Kaffir
War, Zulu War, first Boer War, Tel-el-Kebir,
Suakin, and Khartoum (Gordon relief expedition).
He would probably have been Coinmander-in-
Chief if the Rosebery Cabinet had stopped in a
few days longer. As it was, he rose to all the
other best posts. He was with Evelyn Wood
when Carey came up with news of the Prince
Imperial’s death, and he foretold that Colley
would meet with disaster.
“ The Undersigned” writes :
Melbourne knows its lone Scandinavian-looking pave-
ment traveller, who has figured more than once in Thk
Bulletin columns. This is not about him. Another
oddity appeared some months ago, apparently of the
same nationality. His lurk is a standing one. For an
hour or two every morning he stands on what has come
to be called the Swanston-street Bridge, opposite the
eastern entrance to Flinders-street station. He is always on
the same identical spot of ground, and he looks intently up
Swanston-street. He has changed his appearance several
times. First he wore a moustache and full beard, the
latter trimmed square. Later, the beard was clipped to
a point, in the manner which we used to call a la Boulan-
ger ; then closer, after the fashion affected by fat-faced
men of the present. The beard next disappeared, and he let
the side whiskers grow Ala Franz Josef. He clipped them
back to sideboards, and trimmed the moustache right
back. Now the remainder of the moustache has been
removed, and he wears just the small sideboards such as
I cultivated when I was rising 18. When he first came
under my notice by reason of his attachment to his
pitch, I took it that he was a tramway man, perhaps on
the “ spot.” But he would soon become too well known
for this theory to hold. Then I thought he must be a
pressman, counting the number of cyclists crossing
Princes Bridge in a given time, as the basis of a
par. But, from the time he has spent on his
lookout, that would not be a payable proposition.
The railway men about the station corner and the police-
men on point duty know nothing about him. He looks
as if he might be anything, from a professional chess-
player to an ex-lighthouse hand. Possibly he is the hero
of an Anderson mellow-scream, just released after
serving a long sentence for the crime he didn’t commit,,
and is now lying in wait for the fashionable villain, Damon
Puff, who put him away and then fled to Footscray with
his best deceived girl.
THE IMPORTING CRAZE a GAIN .
The authorities of the Anglican Church propose to ob-
tain the new Archbishop from England. —Daily Payer.
In the contest for the seat in South Aus-
tralia’s Uppish House, which Agent-General
Kirkpatrick has resigned, there are two con-
testants —Theodore Bruce, the much defeated, a
member of the Tramways Trust, and A. W.
Styles, secretary of the Tramways Employees
Association. Styles is Mayor of Thebarton, and
has considerable municipal experience ; he is also
secretary to the Federated Butchers’ Union.
Bruce has been Mayor of Unley, but at present is
out of a municipal job. He has often tried to
push Tom Brice out of politics, but, so far, has
failed. He is like so many more of S. A. s National
Ass. nominees, an auctioneer. Auctioneering is
the unproductive sort of job which appeals to the
National Ass.
A TALE OF AN “AD.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now Benjy M'Bingy, my hero, had lashins of loot to his
name,
But Loot, by itself could not plenish the soul that was
greedy for Fame ;
'Twas Fame—ever Fame—that Meßingy was yearning to
glean for himself—
But a Fame he was anxious to garner without any wasting
of Pelf.
But all of a sudden the country (or part of it) burst into
flame,'
That Deutschland (whose Kaiser is Wilhelm) should dare
take a hand in the game.
The game that Bull played with such profit—the game
that means Boss of tiie Sea,
The game that brought most of us hither and made us a
Land of the Free.
And lo—through the papers one morning we learned that
our Bengy Mcß.
Had planked down a cheque for ten thousand —a princely
munificent fee,
So that we should hustle the builders and raise up a war-
ship or two,
A gift to old Britain from children whose bosoms were
bulky and true.
And patriots whose acres were many, whose waistcoats
were noble and white,
They went in the wake of Meßingy, and threw down
their stuff in the sight
Of men who went crazy with wonder, of papers that
bellowed afar :
“Behold the largesse of our noblest, and see what a
nation we are ! ”
And as the months passed, and subscribers gr&w weary
of sending their tin,
We calmly sat down, and we reckoned how much the
big fund had got in,
And learned, to our great satisfaction, our land had a
stiff upper lip,
For the cash we had got would suffice for— one-fortieth
part of a ship.
So we sent back Meßingy his dollars, and guessed how
Meßingy would smile,
That youth who was yearning for honor—that Hebrew
without any guile,
And never a vessel we builded to help the land over the
sea,
But when the next Birthday was on us—his name was
Sir Bengy Mcß.
And as to the dangers of Britain—we’re hoping she’ll
lend us a loan,
So that her dear children may raise her a bouncing big ,
boat of her own ;
And as to Sir Benjy—he’s famous; his soul is exalted
and glad—
O GREAT IS THE VIRTUE OF PUFFING, AND MIGHTY THE POWER
OF THE AD. ! ! !
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.


m
5
5
r\
alls
e
(a
L A
- <■*>#■* i*s> i*.
,*W '
»!«
r\
□
U=^
ass?
5
ad
m
D
h
d
&
3
a
31
a
i=
a
e
-Ben— JartjAo
ħ
h


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT «
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in Eng-land. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold Cold Estates,
BOD ANGORA,
N.S.W.
®L 1S magnificent Plant has been purchased by us from the Liquidators in the Estate of the late
JAS. DICK, and comprises practically new complete 40-Head Tubular Frame Stamper Battery of 10001 b.
Stamps, Compound Surface Condensing- Corliss Engine, First Motion Winding Engine, Double 14in.
Cylinders, and Three High-Pressure Cornish Boilers, all by Thompson, of Castlemaine. Three large Air
Compressors, Stonebreakers, and enormous lot of miscellaneous Mining-Plant. Complete Catalogues in course
of preparation, and will be sent post free on application. CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
Machinery Merchants, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ; also Melbourne, Ballarat and Bendigo.
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
Premier Joseph Ward, of Maoriland, has made
a statement which is calculated to cause the Dominion to
st up and think hard. He says that the revenue lor the
past year was £9,001,185, and the expenditure £8,785,513.
That means that the surplus is down to £215,672, and
considering the number of items of ordinary expenditure
which Maoriland debits to loan account, its annual sur-
plus requires to be about £700,000 to keep things even
reasonably square. Dor the year which ended March,
1908, the paper surplus of Maoriland was over £BOO,OOO,
so the paper or parchment or bogus surplus of Ward’s
islands has apparently dropped about £600,000 inside 12
months. Seeing that even with a paper or delusive or
sham surplus of £SOO,OOO the debt increased, and the
inability of the allegedly reproductive public works of
Maoriland to pay interest on the debt increased,
and as a consequence the burden of taxation
increased, the prospects of Maoriland, with only
£215,672 of paper surplus, are gloomy. In this
respect some remarks made by Premier Ward are
significant. Maoriland has, for a good many years past,
borrowed steadily and persistently about as much money
as it could lay its hands on. It has borrowed in London
and Sydney and Melbourne. It has borrowed whatever
small sums it could obtain locally. It would have bor-
rowed in Parramatta or Geelong if it could have found
money there. It would have borrowed in Hell if such a
thing were possible. And now Premier Joseph Ward has
spoken severely to the local banks because they haven’t
enough money waiting to be borrowed. He says that he
“has come to the conclusion that the bank-
ing institutions are unable to afford sufficient
facilities to the community owing to the in-
crease in land settlement and trade; it will
therefore be necessary for the existing banks to largely
increase their available funds, or other banks will be
allowed to enter into competition.” That seems to repre-
sent Joseph Ward’s last frantic attempt to keep the loan
money boqm going. Maoriland, under his insensate and
furious guidance, can’t keep afloat even by its tremendous
public borrowings, so Joseph urges the banks to find
more money somewhere or anywhere or in any old place,
and lend it out on Maoriland’s inflated property values;
and if the banks don’t dig up the money from one place
or another he threatens them with competition. Where-
he proposes to find the competition he doesn’t say.
At present there are doing business in Maoriland the
Bank of N.Z., the National Bank of N.Z., the Bank
of N.S. W., the Union Bank of Australia, and the
Bank of Australasia. The only possible reason that can
be assigned why the Commercial of Australia, Commercial
of Sydney, the two Koj’als (of Melbourne and Brisbane),
the Colonial, National, and Victoria, of Melbourne, the
Adelaide, the Westralian, the two Tasmanian banks, and
some of the smaller institutions don’t open offices in
Maoriland is that they don’t think the business would
pay. Probably they think that values are so badly in-
flated through the borrowing policy of Joseph Ward and
other people that Maoriland is a good place to keep out
of. It is all very good for Ward to threaten to bring in
these or other banks to dissipate their cash in advances
on the loan-inflated property values of Maoriland, but the
banks might refuse to come. Most of them have, at one
time or another, struck booms and bursts in their own
countries. They may not want to come in at the begin-
ning of a burst and the horrible tail end of a boom in
Ward’s country.
•*■**■*
The Royal Bank of Queknsland (Brisbane)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Ke- Be-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves serves
Dec., ’O2 8,646) Old. 3 p.c. = 77,223 1423 58,827
June,’o3 9,052 V -[ 7,227 1825 60,652
Dec., ’O3 9,455 J Pref. 3J „ ~ (J,227 —222 S
All
June,’o4 9,lB2Shares 3J ~ ~ 8,422 760 63,640
Dec., ’O4 9,569 ~ 3£ ~ ~ 8,427 1142 64,782
June,’os 9,673 ~ 3.7 ~ ~ 8,463 1210 65,992
Dec., ’O5 9,896 ~ 37 ~ ~ 8,468 1428 67,420
June, ’O6 10,016 ~ ,, ~ 8,46 S 1518 68,968
Dec., ’O6 10,933 ~ 4 ~ ~ 9,711 1500 68,690
June,’o7 11,246 ~ 4 ~ ~ 9,7!,0 1456 70,146
Dee., ’O7 12,626 ~ 4j ~ ~ 11,162 1000 464 70,610
Mar., ’OB 6,305 ~ 4£ ~ ~ 5,709 596 71,206
Sept.,’oB 12,768 ~ 4,, ~ 11,597 1171 72,377
Mar., ’O9 12,707 ~ 4)- „ „ 11,719 987 73,365
This bank is going ahead very carefully. In his speech
at the ‘half-yearly meeting, the chairman excused the
slightly-shrunken profits in these words: “The profits
do not perhaps show the increase that could be wished
for, but that can be largely accounted for by the fact
that our advances have been somewhat limited, chiefly
because of the improved financial position of many of the
bank’s constituents who have not required so much
assistance recently, and because we have refrained in
many instances from lending on what in some agricul-
tural districts may also be termed boom values.”, Evi-
dently the management does not think the gilt on
Queensland’s gingerbread is all 18-carat. One of the
results of this policy may be seen in the following table
of interest earnings -
Net Profits in Proportion to Shareholders’ Funds
(Capital and Beserves).
June, 1905 .. £3 14 1 p.c. June, 1907 .. £4 5 5 p.c.
Dec., 1905 .. 315 7 ~ Dec., 1907 .. 412 7 „
June, 1906.. 316 4,, Sept.,l9,oS .. 411 9 „
Dec., 1906 .. 4 211 ~ Mar., 1909 .. 4 9 6,,
And the situation of the Boyal Bank may be furthermore
estimated by the following table :
Sept,.,’oB. Mar., ’O9.
Bills and notes .. £52,597 £43,711 Dec. £S,BS6
Deposits .. .. 1,103,927 1,189,018 Inc. 85,091
Liquid assets .. 443,195 589,485 Inc. 146,290
Advances .. .. 1,226,097 1,160,628 Dec 65,469
Premises, etc. .. 63,458 63,299 Dec. 159
These figures sugg-est that the institution is girding up
its loins and preparing for any possible emergency. The
decrease in advances is considerable, and the increase in
liquid assets —the assets that are kept on hand by way of
security against any sudden rush —is immense. Whether
the management of the Boyal thinks it sees a fantod on
the horizon, or what its idea may be, it is hard to say ;
but when the liquid assets represent not far short of 50
per cent, of all liabilities to the Government and the
public it may be said without hesitation that all reason-
able precaution has been taken.
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees Association, Ltd. (Launceston): —
Dividends and To Be- Be-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept,., 1902 .. £626 6 per cent. = £315 £3ll £2281
Mar., 1903 .. 510 6 ~ „ 315 195 2476
Sept., 1903 .. 470 6 ~ ~ 315 155 2631
Mar., 1904 ..815 6 ~ ~ 315 500 ■ ,3131
Sept., 1904 ..667 6 „ ~ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905 .. 696 6 ~ ~315 3SI 3864
Sept., 1905 .. 1148 6 „ ~ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906 .. 1040 8 „ ~ 420 620 5317
Sept., 1906 ..818 8 „ „ 420 398 5715
Mar., 1907 .. .714 8 „ ~ 420 294 6009
Sept., 1907.. 827 8 „ ~ 420 407 6416
Mar., 1908 .. 841 8 „ „ 420 421 6837
Sept., 1908 ... 863 9 „ „ 472 391 7228
Mar., 1909 ~ 666 9 „ 472 194 7422
The drop of close on £2OO in profits shown above is due
firstly to a decrease in the amount of commission earned
of £124, and secondly to an increase in the salaries list of
£67, as compared with last half-year. “Directors’ Fees,
£126 ” bulks largely amongst the modest figures shown
by this co. ; it represents an increase of £l2 over the same
item for the September half. The co. has a paid capital
of £10,000(£5 shares paid to £1). On capital and reserves
combined, last half-3»ear’s profits were at the rate of
£7l4s. Sd. percent, per annum. For the terms ending Sep-
tember, ’OB, and March, ’OB, the earnings were respectively
£lO ss. per cent, and £lO 3s. Bd. per cent. Like most
other Tasmanian concerns, this is the bud of a possible
golden flower ; but, while Tasmania remains dozing in a
corner, none of its institutions gets a fair chance to grow
up, or blossom, or get a move on, or bog in. The best
they can do under existing circumstances is to lead an
honest and upright life, and progress gradually in a small
way. The reserves are now certainly very large compared
with what they were seven .years ago, but they are very
small compared with what they might be if Apple Land
woke up a trifle.
* * * *
The Heddon Greta Coal Co. (N.S.W.): —
Deficit
Total (apart
Charged from
to De- De-
Coal Land velop- velop-
Sales. Sales. ment. ment).
Mar., 1903 .. £4,290 £1685 £5,692 £521
Sept., 1903 .. 8,599 94 7,573 380
Mar., 1904 .. 9,927 209 9,881 1520
Sept., 1904 .. 11.89 S 278 11,017 2054
Mar., 1905 .. 11,986 12,450 2054
Sept., 1905 .. 6,956 13,961 3406
Mar., 1906 .. 12,420 14,323 3538
Sept., 1906 .. 10,373 14,323 3394
Mar., 1907 .. 11,197 14,323 3770
Sept., 1907 .. 19,194 14,323 1903
Mar., 1908 .. 16,468 14,638 1017
Re-
serves.
Sept., 190 S .. 14,285 15,900 1004
Mar., 1909 .. 9,883 15,966 421
This co. has a mournful tale to tell this half-year. Ex-
penditure has outrun income by £583, and the reserves
have slid down to £421 ; also the boring for the lower
East Greta seam has so far failed to locate the coal, and
the search is hung up for the time being'. Disregarding
amounts spent on developmental work, the co.’s past
record reads this way : i
Sept., 1905 .. Loss £1352 Sept., 1907 .. Prof. £1867
Mar., 1906 .. „ 132 Mar., 1908 .'. ~ 886
Sept., 1906 .. Prof. 144 Sept., 1908 .. „ 2245
Mar., 1907 .. Loss 376 Alar., 1909 .. Loss 583
Slackness of trade is the very reasonable excuse advanced
by the management for the depressing- result of six
months’ toil. The charging of a certain amount (not
specified) of the cost of development work direct to work-
ing cost of the colliery has also been a contributing
factor. The North Side, which was sealed up in Septem-
ber, ’OB, in consequence of the old fire area showing signs
of being troublesome again, was opened up in January of
this year, and found cool enough to be workable. It is
now once more in going order, and the management
estimate that it will increase the mine’s 300-ton daily
output by 100 tons—“ when trade improves.” The de-
benture debt is now £2500 ; also the co. owes its bankers
£4016, and sundry creditors £lOO5. Against these items
it 'has book debts amounting to £767. After doing a wise
and good financial deed last term by writing off £906 of
flotation and preliminary exes, out of £2245 of profits, it
is hard lines to be hit by a dull season and a moderately
large Joss., Among coal mines, the Heddon-Greta is a
sort of smudgy Job, who is afflicted with fires instead of
boils.
* * * *
The Townsville Gas and Coke Co. (Queens-
land):—
Dividend and Written To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves
1901 .. 12Jp.c. = £1969 £3953
1902 . ..£3505 10 ~ ~ 1575 £1930 5883
1903 .. 3466 10 ~ ~ 1575 £lBO2 S 9 5972
1904 .. 3705 10 „ ~ 1575 2130 8102
1905 .. 3751 10 ~ ~ 1575 1691 485 8587
1906 .. 3504 121 t) n 1969 .1335 200 8787
1907 .. 3738 12| ~ „ 1969 1299 470 9257
£7500 of Reserves Capitalised .. .. 1757
1908 .. 3390 10 p.c. = 1643 375 1372 3129
1909 ... 3715 10 ~ „ 2614 1000 101 3230
The world continues to go very well with this concern.
Although the operation of the Early Closing Act and a
further concession to the Council are said to have re-
duced the consumption of gas in shops and for street-
lighting purposes, the sales of “ gas, residuals,” etc., are
set down this year as £10.078 ; last year the receipts
from this source totalled £8752—0r £1326 less than for
the term just ended. However, by way of further gild-
ing the refined dividend, the management is encourag-
ing the Townsville housewife to use gas-cookers, and the
Townsville housewife taking kindly to the notion, the
clank of the penny meter is beginning to be heard with a
cheering frequency. The new idea is expected to return
a considerable profit when it gets going properly. The
item, “ Freehold property, plant and mains,” has moved
up during the year from £26,423 to £27,99s—which is a
jump of £1572; also, £lOOO has been written off plant.
There is a credit balance at the bank of £127; against
this, sundry creditors amount to £249. The accounts
are not as explicit as they were in March, 1907, and, as a
rule, one line of figures has to do the work which was
formerly divided amongst four. This accounting reti-
cence seems to overtake some cos. in the days of their
bounding prosperity, and it inevitably suggests the small
boy who has become possessed of an extra large slice of
plum cake,and desires to avoid publicity until the rich-
ness is safely .stowed. •
The Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co.
(N.S.W.):—
■ Mine De-
velopment Written
Loss. Expenditure, off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. £1163 £1 4SS
Alar., 1904.. 1214 2 702
Profit.
Septi,«l9o4.. 363 —’ 2 349
Alar., 1905.. 105 2’244
S.ept., 1905.. 289 £221 £1856 4’ 032
Mar., 1906.. 577 751 4 ’206
Loss.
Sept., 1906.. 2 2974 7,182
Profit.
Mar., 1907.. 441 4274 1280 12,295
■ Loss. r
5ept.,1907.. ' 17 ‘ 1010 984 14 306
Profit.
Mar., 1908.. 5377 2447 3021 14 397
Sept., 1908.. 8094 1605 6103 14,011
Mar., 1909.. 8061 684. 6557 13,191
The report states that ten new waggons and a number of
new skips have been added to the plant; it also breaks
the news officially that a new boiler and electric plant
have been ordered and that coal-cutting machines are
being installed. From these preparations it can be
gauged that the co. has a confident eye fixed on the
future : and the future has never yet wholly turned dog
on the Wickham. Since 1905, when the original mine
was worked out and the Cessnock property secured, luck
has dog’ged' this co. even as a hungry hound follows a man
with a parcel of sausages. Most mines consider them-
selves fortunate if they have one life; but, after a long,
profitable—and improvident—existence, this one Is
gradually fighting its way back to the firing line. There
is a long stringof lean accounts between the 12J Pref. and
6 per cent. Ordinary dividends of 1901; but, when one
contrasts the position of the co. to-day with its pre-
carious foothold at (sa.v) March, 1905, it is obvious that
Providence is occasionally good to coal mines. The fact
that the old mine was allowed to die with its book value
still standing in the accounts, means that there is a dead
horse of great size to work off, but the following figures
show that a considerable reduction is being made in the
animal:—
Debts owing'
by Co. (less Book
Value of Cash and Value of
Coal Debts owing Mining
Sold. to Co.). Property.
March, 1906 .. Nil £7,070 £55,435
September, 1906 .. ~ 12,208 ~
March, 1907 .. ~ 16,779 „
September, 1907 .. £14,107 17,914 ~
March, 1908 .. 23,587 16,478 87,400
September, 1908 .. 33,798 14,436 83,000
March, 1909 .. 32,047 8,736 78,000
The co. is thus £19,613 nearer the end of its troubles than
it was in September, 1907 (£9I7S paid off its debts and
£10,435 wiped off its paper assets). Consequently it is
£19,613 nearer to the resumption of dividends.
* « » *
The Tasmanian Loan, Guarantee and Finance
Co. (Hobart): —
Dividendsand To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves
Sept., 1902.. £398 5 p.c. =£394 £4 £2715
Mar 1903 1 5 ” ” 1573
Mar., 1903 ..-j Written off, £S72 )
Sept., 1903 .. 490 5 p.c. = 394 96 1969
Mar., 1904 .. 530 5 „ „ 397 133 2102
Sept., 1904 .. 541 5 ~ ~ 399 142 2244
Mar., 1905 .. 529 5 ~ ~ 399 130 2374
Sept., 1905 .. 557 5 „ ~ 399 15S 2532
Mar., 1906 .. 564 5 „ „ 399 165 2697
Sept., 1906 .. 625 5 „ „ 399 226 2923
Mar., 1907 ..597 5 „ „ 399 198 3121
Sept., 1907 .. 574 6J ~ ~ 505 69 3190
Mar., 1908 .. 659 5 ~ ~ 430 229 3419
Sept., 1908 .. 668 5 „ ~ 459 209 3628
Premiums on new shares .. .. 70 3698
Mar., 1909 ..659 5 p.c. = 496 163 3861
The recent increase of capital has been followed by a
gentle forward move in deposits, which now stand at
£12,641 —or £769 more than in September ’OB. Deposits,
however, are still about £lOOO less than they were at
March’oB. At that date the item “Loans on mortgage
and other securities and other accounts due to company ”
totalled £32,801 ; the amount in the present balance-
sheet is £34,431. The paid capital at present amounts to
£18,900, or £6259 more than deposits.
Another comparison :
Mar.,’99. Mar.,’o3. Mar.,’o9.
Debts to public.. £4,416 £6,171 £12,641
Advances.. .. 20,423 22,433 34,431
Other assets .. 1,907 1,005 1,468
As will be seen, the debts have increased by £8225 in the
decade; advances, in the same period, have climbed up
£14,008, making a total increase in the two items of
£22,233. The profits for the half-year ending March, ’99,
were £343, which is about half the amount for the term
just ended. The Tasmanian Loan is a well-seasoned
institution ; it has had a fairly long- start, and it travels
on a moderately even keel; if Tasmania were a pro-
gressive country it would probably be a large, bustling
affair by this time ; as things are, it seems to get along
at an extremely gentle jog-trot.
« * » *
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney):—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £2653 [ l \ p ’ c ' = j- - £27,870
June, 1903.. 6559 6 6000 £859 28,729
Dec., 1903.. 5516 6 „ ~ 6000 28,245
June, 1904.. 7438 6,, ~ 6000 1438 29,683
Dec., 1904.. 6685 j [ 435 30,118
June, 1905.. 6102-} ®’> ” 852 30,970
Dec., 1905.. 5879 6” ” 6000 30,849
June, 1906.. .5382 6„ „ 6000 30,231
Deo., 1906.. 9650 6,, ~ 6000 3650 33,881
June, 1907.. 6 „ ~ 6000, , 3375 37,256
Dec,, 1907.. 7774 6„ „ 6000 1774 39,030
June, 1908.,. 9710 6,, ~ 6000 3710 42,740
Dec., 1908.. $326 6„ ~ 6000 2326 45,066
The riddle of Mort’s balance-sheet is the reserve fund,
which moves about without any explanation. As stated,
the net profits on the half-year are £6596; but, in the
above table, the unexplained additions to the reserve
since June, ’OB, amounting to £1730, are added thereto,
which makes £8326. For the Dec. ’O7-June, ’OB term,
these unexplained additions amounted to £3309 ; this
whs, however, an exceptionally large increase. Pre-
sumably they are governed by the final results of con-
tracts; possibly they only represent the co.’s humorous
way of doing things. Anyhow, it is a most unbusiness-
like arrangement. Any business man expects the new
balance-sheet to start where the old one left off. The
reserve fund has no more right than the dock itself to go
away either in whole or in part without leaving a printed
explanation of its departure ; and, on the other side of
the case, large sums have no more right to break into
the balance-sheet without explanation than large men
have to break into the manager’s house. To return to
figures, if the profits declared in the balance-sheet are
alone taken into consideration and the reserve fund
mystery is disregarded, these are the amounts :
June, 1903 .. .. £6392 June, 1906 .. .. £6237
Dec., 1903 .. .. 5971 Dec., 1906 .. .. 81U
J.une, 1904 .. .. 4868 June, 1907 .. .. 7949
Dec., 1904 .. .. 6169 Dec., 1907 .. .. 8482
June, 1905 .. . . 5201 June, 1908 .. .. 6401
Dee., 1905 .. .. 5934 Dee., 1908 .. .. 6596
The irritating brevity of Mort’s balance-sheet reaches its
top-note when it compresses things like this: “Net
profits for the half-year, after deducting miscellaneous
and working expenses, depreciation, etc.” The amount
written off for depreciation might be put in brackets, if
it isn’t thought deserving of a whole line to itself. The
last line of the second tabie shown above represents a
very slight improvement on the figures for the preceding
half-year. When the stated net profits are taken in con-
junction with the unexplained additions to reserves (as in
first table) a drop of £1384 is revealed. The co. is in
150,000 ordinary, and 50,000 preference shares ; also, it
owes £148,300 on debentures (130,000 of the £150,000
ordinary capital was transferred from reserves in 1899).
In connection with the depreciation puzzle, it is interest-
ing to compare, “ Property, plant, and stocks, less depre-
ciation,” at June, ’OB, with the same item in Dee. of the
same year. The December figures indicate a shrinkage of
£5910; but as it maybedue to the using up of stocks, it is
not a guide to go by.
The East Greta Coal Mining Co. (N.S. W.):
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Sept.,’o4 .. 10 p.c. = 5703 3000 12,952
Mar., ’O5 .. 8,053 10 „ „ 6250 3000 11,755
Sept;, ’O5 .. 8,427 5 ~ „ 3185 2000 3242 14,997
Ma’r.. ’O6 .. 3,528 5 „ „ 3554 1000 13,971
Sept.,’o6 .. 2,368 5 ~ ~ 3750 12,589
Mar., ’O7 .. 6,666 5 ~ ~ 3750 2000 916 13,505
Sept., ’O7 ~ 14,916 10 ~ ~ 7500 7000 416 13,921
Mar., ’OB .. 19,782 10 ~ „ 7500 6500 5782 19,703
Sept.,’oB .. 16,829 10 ~ „ 7500 2500, 6829 26,532
Mar., ’O9 .. 9,510 10 ~ ~ 7500 2000, 10 26,542
The general dulness now pervading the coal business has
dealt the East Greta a heavy blow in the waistcoat, and
profits have come down with a run. The coal and goods
traffic on the co.’s railway is also stated to have materially
decreased. The advantage of having something consider-
able up your sleeve is shown by the East Greta’s present
behavior, for, instead of sitting dolefully oyer a depleted
cash-box, it has paid its habitual dividend with an easy
conscience, and, in addition, has written £2OOO off plant,
and charged £3231 for depreciation direct to profit ami
loss-making £6372 for the 12 months covered by this and
the previous report. As mentioned some time ago, the
co. is exceptionally Well placed to see a rainy day
through ; and, now that the moisture is descending, it
isn’t very low-spirited. Its report, too, speaks hopefully
of the future without any perceptible break in its voice.
Considerable additions have been made to the railway roll-
ing stock (the co. now owns 14 locomotives alone), and a
complete electric plant that will make for more economical
working, and give profits a leg up is almost ready to start.
The only thing wanted now is a brisk demand for coal,
and the report is hoping; for that as hard as any document
can.
* * * *
The Volum Brewing Co., Ltd., (Geelong,
Vic.) -
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Aug-., 1902.. £lOOB 8 p.c. =£395 £lB2 £7,231
Feb., 1903.. 1127 8 „ „ 396 174 £557 7,758
Aug., 1903.. Information not available—B p.c. div.
Feb., 1904.. 1316 10 p.c. =£49B 169 8,293
Aug., 1904.. 1266 10 ~ ~ 500 161 605 8,898
Feb., 1905.. 1373 10 ~ „ 500 256 617 9,515
Aug., 1905.. 731 10 ~ ~ 500 640 9,106
Feb., 1906.. 1317 10 „ ~ 500 750 67 9,173
Aug-., 1906.. 1010 10 ~ ~ 500 134 376 9,549
Feb., 1907.. 1353 10 „ ~ 500 136 717 10,266
Aug., 1907.. S6B 10 ~ ~ 500 127 241 10,507
Feb., 1908.. 1577 10 ~ ~ 500 523 554 11,061
Aug., 1908.. 959 10 ~ ~ 500 618 10,902
Feb., 1909.. 841 10 ~ ~ 500 140 201 11,103
The drop in profits for the past term is due to a slightly
increased expenditure ; the receipts this half-year totalled
£1544, as against £1358 for August ’OB. The disburse-
ments, however, this time climbed up about £303, thus
wiping out the gain in revenue, as well as slicing off a bit
extra. The Volum Co. is just over 21 years old ; it is one
of Geelong’s best-known institutions, and it goes along
paying its 10 per cent, dividends with admirable regu-
larity. At the same time, it doesn’t ever seem to forget
to write down plant and rolling stock. The regular prac-
tice in this regard seems to be to write 5 per cent, off
plant, and 10 per cent, off rolling stock each half-year.
An occasional writing- down of freeholds is the explana-
tion of the larger amounts shown in the third column of
the above table. A cheerful note in this concern’s
accounts is that dividends do not ever seem to have
retreated. In 1899, 5 per cent, cheered the shareholder’s
purse ; in 1902, 8 per cent, was the order of the balance-
sheet ; and now it seems to have settled down to a steady
10 per cent. The co. has gradually acquired a good deal
of property with the undivided profits—the supposition
being that property in this instance means pubs.
A glance backward :
Aug., Feb., Aug., Feb.,
1898. 1908. 1908. 1909.
Capital £9234 £lO,OOO £lO,OOO £lO,OOO
Liabilities .. .. 9541 9,734 11,258 11,912
Brewery and plant .. 8908 8,043 7,981 8,338
Other freeholds .. 7800 19,637 21,537 20,827
Stock, book debts .. 3557 3,611 3,542 3,740
Cash 486 3 98 009
There is nothing wildly sensational in the above two
slabs of figures ; but that lengthy string of 10 per cent,
dividends in the first table is a fine record of quiet pros-
perity. As regards the pub property item in the second
table, it has to be remembered that the beer pump these
days is an implement that is perpetually being besieged
by the Cold Tea and Heated Language Party ; conse-
quently, its value and the value of its domicile as an
investment is always more or less an unknown quantity.
* * ■» *
Sydney is having an epidemic of embezzlement
among solicitors. Hardly a week passes without some
Gentleman One heingcalled upon to show cause ; and the
hole in the trust funds is something appalling. One
solicitor who recently fell in with a loud splash has no
less than five destitute widows on his conscience. Some
day N. S. Wales may get a Government that isn’t domi-
nated by lawyers, and the first act of that Government
will be to establish a public trust office and devise legis-
lation by which solicitors who have the management of
estates will be compelled to submit to a bi-annual audit
by a Government officer. The man who leaves his estate
to the care of a private trustee is a fool ; but the one who
leaves it to a solicitor is a straight-out criminal, who
conspires to leave his widow and children destitute.
There are in N. S. Wales two trustee companies
which have a considerable capital as security for the
faithful performance of their duties, and why on earth
any man prefers to leave the affairs of his widow and
children in the hands of a private solicitor with a dingy
little office many stairs up, and with no visible capital
except a brass-plate and a very worn mat, in preference
to giving the job to a strong company which has some
capital to lose, is a mystery only explainable bv Carlyle’s
utterance concerning “mostly fools.” But, anyhow, it
is the duty of the Government to protect the people
against swindling solicitors just as much as against
foreign invaders, so it is urgently necessary that the
Public Trust Office should be established without delay.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for March :
Value
Reve- per
Tonnage, nue. Profit. ton
Great Boulder .. ..£16.259 £49,511 £26,400 60/10
Golden Horseshoe .. 25,103 51,556 20,134 41/1
Ivanhoe 19,307 43,707 21,017 45/3
Boulder Perseverance .. 18,725 28,554 6,217 30/9
Kalgurli 10,900 28.594 16,063 68/-
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 13,389 20,551 6,309 30/8
Associated .. .. 11,718 23,209 7,019 40/-
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,580 20,639* 7,559 42/9
Great Fingall .. .. 14,268 14,163 89 19/10
Oroya Black Range .. 4,718 11,084 4,487 50/-
South Kalgurli .. .. 9,039 12,513 2,503 27/8
Associated Northern .. 3,750. 6,777 2,867 36/2
Gwalia South .. .. 2,050 5,242 ]’546 51/1
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,280 5,716 2.815 50/1
Lake View Consols .. 7,367 9,488-f 2.826 J 25/9
Mararoa ...... .. 2,337 4,400 2,032 37/8
Gwalia Consolidated .. 4,595 7,587 1,009 33/-
Hainault 5,010 6,246 508 24/11
Peak Hill 6,002 2,590 143 8/7
Vivien 3,360 3,942 108 23/6
Boulder No. 1 .... .. 2,872 2,666 92 18/7
Hills Proprietary .. 900' 2,542 1,540 56/6
Ida H 1,250 3,530 56/6
Bellevue 2,655 5,196 854 39/1
Orion 720 1,483 332 41/2
Karangahake .. .. 680 1,250 75 36/9
Loss.
Golden Links .. .. 4,066 6,636 315 32/S
Northern Mines .. .. 8,040 6,961 630 17/4
Cumberland .. .. 710 1,271 310 35/9
North White Feather .. 2,100 2,756 38 26/3
♦lncluding £4629 earned from re-treating old residues,
flncluding receipts from milling Golden Link ore.
£1217 derived from the re-treatment of old
slimes.
* * * *
Some more flattering tales are being printed
about the Lusitania, alias Goodenough, at Menzies
(W.A.). Here is the latest: “ The work done lately has
considerably augmented the ore reserves. . . . A winze
put down from the surface disclosed fair average values
for the 60ft. sunk.’’ But, as already paragraphed, there
is another side to the picture which shows the property
in its true colors, and stamps it as a delusion and a snare.
The Bulletin hopes that the Melbourne crowd which is
being pressed to take an option on the property will have
a squint at this side of the picture and judge for itself.
* * * *
Reported from London that Kaufman has
pulled right out of Phillips River (W.A.), and left the
Hirsch people to paddle their own canoe. Latter are
showing plenty of enterprise and mean to make the best
of things, but small ore deposits and heavy pumping
costs are likely to tell a disappointing tale in the lone-
rum A sea was met with in the Mount Catlin at 200 ft.
or 300 ft. from the siirface. Remembrance of the ruinous
cost then entailed in keeping down the water no doubt
explains the reluctance of the management to go on sink-
ing in this property, or to get much below water level in
any of the other holdings.
* » * »
The local syndicate of ten which got hold of the
North Boulder (VV.A.) leases and plant apparently stands
a good chance of making money. Enough machinery is
said to be on the property to recoup the new owners
what they paid for the whole caboose, while a patch of
lSdwt. to 20dwt. ore which the co. left behind in its
hurry is now being taken out. Already 8., M. and Co.
have been asked to quote for the treatment of a trial
parcel of 1000 tons or more at the Oroya Brown Hill mill.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Specially constituted
to ad as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power Agents, etc.
Economical and
Efficient Management.
Absolute Security.
2, 4> 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager,
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE C.M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) .. 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANGE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL 8.07 „
SONS OF CWALIA 8.34 „
Australian OJices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
COHMANN (& COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating &. Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne ;
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [4.
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) has just got itself
talked about by the intersection of 7ft. of 15dwt. ore at
2000 ft. This body is identical with the Horseshoe No. 3
lode, which is a continuation of the Ivanhoe east lode.
In the present instanc , the ore was readied by a cross-
cut off the long south-east crosscut started some months
ao-o from the bottom of the Ivanhoe South Extended
shaft, and subsequently extended across the Horseshoe
lease.’ The main workings in the latter lease still require
to be" deepened a few hundred feet to reach 2000 ft.
* * * *
Boulder Deep Levels (W.A.) is being tested at
300 ft. by means of a drive on Morrison’s lode from tiie
workings of the adjoining Hannan’s Star. Some ore
worth 725. per ton has been broken out of the face to go
on with ; but there isn’t any guarantee that this grade
will be maintained. No work has been done in the Deep
Levels above 500 ft., and the attempt made to find gold at
the laiter point was a very feeble and half-hearted one.
All the crushings so far taken out of the property came
from between 900 ft. and 1100 ft., and a reserve of at least
40,000 tons of payable ore is still reckoned to be standing
between these two levels.
Ivanhoe Co. (W.A.) isn’t at all put out over the
poor values met with in the crosscut at 1970 ft. Driving
has been started on the lode, and once the break in the
country is passed through—which, it is estimated, should
only be a matter of 30ft. or 40ft. in each direction—the
management is confident of getting the usual grade of
ore. The 2120 ft. level is being opened up as speedily as
possible, and the shaft is to be taken down to 2270 ft.
without delay 7.
* * •* •*
The word that came from London via the West
(B. 25/3/’O9), and asserted that Hoover and Govett were
going to setup in business as mine-managers, proves to
be incorrect. 1 This paper sprinkled the atom of informa-
tion with the cold water of doubt when it first arrived,
and it isn’t vastly surprised to find it was wrong.
» " * » »
Shareholders wore a funereal look at the
Golden Bole (W.A.) meeting, which, under the circum-
stances, wasn’t out of place. In a lugubrious sort of
speech from the chair, J. W. Fimister mentioned that
the cash in hand on that day was £5200, and that this
surplus was likely to be added to at the rate of between
£2OO and £3OO a month for a few months longer. If,
however, some new shoot of gold was not struck in the
meanwhile, he thought the co. would then have to go
into crape and buy a poor man’s funeral with a mule in
the shafts. Disappointment was expressed at the recent
loss of £7OOO on the Kohinoor South option, after which
cigars were handed round as a sort of comforter, and a
little later on the proceedings terminated with a drink at
the nearest bar.
* # » *
On December 31, 1908, the Ivanhoe (W.A.) was
estimated to liave 934,089 tons in sight above 1820 ft., of a
gross value of £2,321,065. After allowing for cost of pro-
duction, loss in residues, etc., this gave the mine a
dividend value on that date of a shade under £5 per share.
Great Fingall (W.A.) is turning its attention to
West Africa. A four months’ option has been secured on
the Tarkwa Main Reef, in the Wassau district, Gold
Coast Colony, and should the deal be completed, a new
concern, with a nominal capital of £210,000 in £1 shares,
is to be formed. Great Fingall will be allotted 75,000
shares at par, and the Tarkwa Main Reef will be given
60,000 fully-paid shares for nothing. This will
leave a reserve of 75,000 shares, on which the Great
Fingall will have an option at 255. for three years. The
shares to be received by 7 the Tarkwa Main Reef will admit
of the exchange of one share in the new co. for every
three shares held in the old. The property comprises
165 acres, and has a banket formation running through it.
The ore in sight is estimated at 2J million tons, and tiie
co. also owns a two-sevenths interest in an adjoining
property of 378 acres, which is also reckoned to have
a few million tons of formation. Somehow it hasn’t
been able to make a living out of either mine.
* * * *
Hainault Co. (W.A.) got hold of some 12dwt.
ore at 850 ft. the other day, and the market' rose out of all
proportion to the value of the development. The values
met with are supposed to be a continuation of those
driven on to the boundary at 1000 ft. in the adjoining
South Kalgurli lease.
Associated (W.A.) got a little further ahead of
tiie mill during the year ended March 31. On that date
the reserves were estimated at 483,517 tons, containing
241,268 fine oz., as compared with 430,414 tons, contain-
ing 219,7930 z. for the previous year. The gain on the 12
months’ development over and above the ore treated,
which amounted to 125,754 tons, was therefore 53,103
tons. At the present rate of output the ore in sight is
now equal to about 3J years’ supplies. General Manager
Roberts contemplates a visit to London—his first—in
order to let the Board see him in the flesh.
•* ** ■ ■**■
“Oof Bird” writes re par. (B. 15./4/’09): R. G.
Gladstone, auditor for the Flag Gold and Copper Co.
(W.A,), has something to learn about mine accounting in
tiie West. All the bigeos. over there charge expenditure
on main shafts and levels against revenue as they 7
go along. Some concerns certainly 7 do doctor
their financial statements so as to bring them in
line with the system defended by Mr. Gladstone ;
but, to put it bluntly, mine accounts are not honestly 7
set out unless every item of exp nditure incurred during
the period they cover is included and debited against
current profits. As regards the present position of the
co., every word of Mr. Gladstone’s dazzling statement has
been taken down in writing, and may 7 , unless officially
contradicted, be used as evidence against the Board at
the next half-yearly meeting.
*.* * *
A disinclination to undertake the pioneering
work in coke manufacture probably accounts for the slow
rate of progress which the industry makes in Queensland.
The rapidly-increasing demand warrants some action by
the local colliery proprietors, as is shown by the returns
dealing with imported coke during the past five years :
1904, 6478 tons ; 1905, 9823 tons ; 1906, 22,661 tons ; 1907,
34,013 tons; 1908, 58,079 tons. During 1908 the total
quantity manufactured in the State was only 10,684 tons.
There is no doubt about the quality of most of the locally-
produced coke, and it is difficult to understand why a bid
is not made for the trade of the State.
■*■***
A Cloncurry (Queensland) correspondent writes:
Tilings at the Mount Elliott mine have been lively of
late. Manager Corbould and his employees have had
exciting times. His mine staff walked off—or, at least,
took the once-a-week mail coach—at about two hours’
notice. Then his engine-drivers left in a body, followed
by some of the company 7 ’s teams, which consist of a large
number of waggons and some hundred head of horses.
When the manager wanted to know why such powerful
horses could not cover more than four miles per day lie
was left with about a hundred pairs of winkers to hold.
In all, about 100 men have left or been discharged, but
the management appear to keep things going, and places
are being filled. Metallurgist Read, who designed the
smelting plant, and who was to have run the same, has
left. The plant is very much cramped for room, but
as all tiie foundations are in, and excavations made,
it will have to go forward. Large bodies ol ng>-
grade copper ore are showing in the Nos. 1; ->
3 levels. The 400 ft. level is in the primary sulphide ana
shows a splendid body 7 of copper ; but it is siliceous, and
at the present time no known fluxes are in the district
with the exception of some small and quite insufficient
deposits. The upper level ores —oxides and enriched
sulphides—carry such a very great percentage of copper
that it will require a large p rcentage of iron and sulphur
to form a matte for the converter plant that has been
erected. The question is : Does the mine ore carry' the
necessary flux? The company has been looking for flux,
so it is to be hoped that the new smelting and converter
plant is not going to be a misfit. Men who know this
country sa.v there is no flux, and that it will be impossible
to obtain a supply until the railway has been established.
The Cloncurry-Mount Elliott line should be completed b.y
about the end of the year.
* * * *
A discursive man writes from the North : “ As
regards Cloncurry. Had lung yarn with man who has
just seen several of the mines, said man being highly
qualified to express an opinion. He confirms my 7 view
that Elliott is a very blue duck indeed. Reckons that
the bores traverse the lode at a very flat angle, and in a
line almost parallel to the strike. Hence the reported
thicknesses are moonshine. There’s no doubt at all that
the ‘ mineralised slates ’ are the same ore body 7 as the
quartz pyroxene gangue of the 285 level sulphides, arid
the ealcite on the 285 is a local replacement. Similar
replacements occur in the Great Australia mine. . . .
MacGregor has got real good-looking sulphides, but they
are secondary. The zone of impoverishment is fairly 7
extensive, so that when the primary ore is cut the values
must drop considerably. Still the mine is looking better
than it has done, and if they 7 were not such a tarnation
long way 7 from the rail and in hilly 7 country things might
warrant a smile. As it is, they will be wise who defer
smiling till the true primary zone is opened up....
Hampdens are sinking like the schoolboy 7 with lagging
steps, who crawled unwillingly on his wav. They don’t
hanker after their ore in depth. ... If only 7 they 7 will put in
a Gulf railway, I feel sure that we shall hear con-
siderable of the Nor’-West. Gad, it’s a great land!
One day there’ll be maize all along the river flats, and
from the dams they 7 will build on every mountain river—
dry sand in summer, but torrents in the rains—the stored
water will go down to the closely-cultivated patches of
black soil that flank the remains of the Cloncurry plain.
We won’t see it, but it makes even a pessimistic miner
dream dreams and wonder when God will send the man
to do the work that will make him Queensland’s national
hero. ... I won’t predict ” (this is a sudden drop back
into prose) “ concerning the chances of the Towers mines
getting the Day Dawn extension. Personally 7 lam hope-
ful—its contagious up here —and feel inclined to fancy
their chances. But when I reason it out —well, that’s
another story 7 . Still Ido think that Blocks will get
home. I like Clarke’s as well as anything. If any of the
Brilliants get the Day 7 Dawn reef the scrip will hustle
considerable.”
Chillagoe (Q.) has started a good deal of mining
development near Einasleigh, and this work cannot fail
to be costly 7. A lease about which more reports should
be forthcoming has been purchased 10 miles from the
township. Chillagoe was perhaps a little too generous
with mine reports in old boom times, hut nowadays share-
holders only get a side peep at a mining development.
For instance, they 7 know mighty little about what is
going on at the big copper show (the Daiutree) 35 miles
up the river from Einasleigh. This, on the surface, was
from 10ft. to 40ft. wide, with good streaks of ore inter-
spersed among a lot of poor stuff. Debenture interest,
depreciation, and generally 7 heavy and continuous capital-
expenditure devour most of the railway 7 profit. Inci-
dentally, of course, everything depends on mining; so
Chillago 7 is doing the right thing in purchasing fresh
properties. So far Chillagoe smelting w'orks have not
proved a great success—recoveries are poor and costs
high—but the trouble has been exaggerated. For in-
stance, the statement that Mungana’s £222,000 of metals
for 1908 all went to pay costs leaves out of account the
big reclamations that had to be paid when the slump
happened.
'»-.•***
Tommy Burns, a tin show near the Mount Gar-
net (Q.) railway, has reported by telegram to the Sydney 7
Stock Exchange that a dividend of £5 a share has been
declared. A dividend of £1 was expected, so if £5 turns
out to be a true bill, shareholders may consider th’-ni-
selves lucky. It is intended to keep a reserve of £2OOO,
which reads rather queerly in conjunction with the big
dividend ; £2OOO seems a small amount with which to
develop and equip a mine. A crushing of 243 tons of tin
stone returned 26 tons of concentrates, assaying 71 per
cent, metallic tin, and 10 tons, averaging 55 per cent.
This gave the syndicate £2llO clear of crushing ex-
penses, nearly £9 per ton of stone. The open cut work-
ings are said to be capable of producing 11 tons per day 7,
so another crushing may be expected shortly 7 . The work-
ings show an improvement on i he western side, and a face
10ft. wide includes two veins of tin oxide considerably
intermixed with rook. Tommy Burns is not far from
Dalziell’s and Gilmore’s, but geological conditions are
quite different. All that can be said in its favor at pre-
sent is that a big tonnage of rich ore near the surface is
not to be despised.
* * * *
East Mexican. Charters Towers (Queensland),
according to an official report, is driving through a more
favorable formation at the 810 ft. level. The chance of
striking a solid reef is much better than it was, which is
quite enough to cause a leap in shares. The manager is
extending an old level which was driven many years
since. This level has now been taken in 150 ft., and it is
only for the last 6ft. that the formation .has shown signs
of improvement. At present th ■ drive is hearing nearly 7
due east, or parallel to the main Day 7 Dawn reef. The
vertical depth of No. 5, which was extended into the East
Mexican ground from Mills’ United, is 1363 ft., so the
810 ft. formation is a long distance overhead. The Day
Dawn P.O. and other leases adjacent to Mexican’s eastern
boundary 7 have an improved value, and there is very little
doubt that the finding of a solid reef would cause a big
move in share values, because the Day Dawn P.C. has
been one of the best dividend payers on the field. There
is certainly a great deal in the history of Day Dawn de-
velopments, from the early days of poverty and struggle
when it was sinking the first shaft up to now, to
encourage persistent search on the part of the East
Mexican for a payable reef.
* •
Stannary Hills (Q.) is settling down to toil now
the strike is over. Tin mining wasn’t looking too good, and
the old Stannary was hard up, so tiie delay was partly com-
pulsory 7 . The general policy just now is to continue
sinking the new shaft, which is down 432 ft., and to open
up larger ore reserves. There is also a show known as
Central Hill, which is to be worked as an open cut. The
ore assays o'B6 per cent, tin oxide, and might, perhaps,
give a mill recovery worth 155., so cheap mining and
crushing are essential. Improvements have been made to
the mill —which, unfortunately, is too far from the mines
—with a view to reducing costs by one-half. If such a
reduction is possible, the fact gives the old system, about
which everyone seemed proud, a very hard knock. No
doubt costs in general can be reduced, but the main
trouble will be to improve tiie output of tin. It is said
that tin mines don’t pay 7, but here is Stannary expecting
enough profit out of a monthly output of about 60 tons of
tin concentrates, containing, say, 40 tons of metal, to
pa.v dividends on more shares than the population of
Sydney 7. Another threepenny call was mentioned at the
meeting of shareholders at Adelaide.
After a long and expensive voyage through the
Courts, the Tornado mining case finished its journey in
the High Court at Brisbane the other day. The appeal
of John Moffat against the finding of the Queensland
Supreme Court that the Sheppards were entitled to the
whole of the proceeds of the ore taken from the Tortiado
mine before May 2, 1907, was allowed ; and the judgment
of the District Court that they were entitled only to the
proceeds of what was taken out by ten men working six
days a week was restored, with costs against the Shep-
pards.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s forecast of the tight position
the O.K. (Q.) copper mine would be in as a result of the
adverse judgment in the recent lawsuit has been realised.
Theco. has found it essential to mortgage its copper and
plant in order to find the £lO,OOO which the Court re-
quired it to put up prior to an appeal. It would there-
fore appear that O.K. has been running at a loss during
the half-year, although perhaps the accounts —through
charging’certain things to development, and calling de-
velopment a capital expenditure- may show otherwise.
Had the development work of the past half-year revealed
any' extensive body of ore, such a proceeding might be
justified to a limited extent, and it will be interesting to
hear General Manager Shepherd on the situation in the
half-yearly report, which is now about due. O.K. is
admittedly short of money—and good judges say also
short of payable ore. With a lawsuit to fight, a jury’s
finding to upset, and more capital wanted for the purpose
of finding pay ore, O.K.’s cake looks rather like the usual
mixture of flour and water.
* » * *
We hear much concerning the Cooktown coal
fields just now, and matters have got so far that the
Northern people have subscribed the best part of £loooto
test the field by boring. This is to be subsidised by an
equal amount from the Government. Although certain
geologists have reported favorably, the latest opinion of
the Government geological survey is not very encourag-
ing. There appears to he no thickness of coal
worth speaking of, and anything less than 2ft.
will not pa.v. Anything approaching this so
far, with perhaps one exception, is of very
poor quality. In a moment of enthusiasm £6OO was
collected on account of a report that 2ft. of good coal had
been located, but this on closer examination turned out
to be less than Ift. The general conclusion of the Govern-
ment Geologist is ttiat there remains little coal to be
proved, and that “ the prospects do not appear to be
sufficiently good to warrant any large outlay.”
* » * +
The downward course of the North Mount Lyell
(Tasmania) has always been doubtful, but good develop-
ments at 1000 ft. have caused an optimistic feeling about
the 1100 ft. level. A good deal of theorising has been in-
dulged in, because, in sinking the main shaft, the folia-
tions in the rock were noticed to underlie to the west.
The change has been from an easterly underlie to the
vertical, and then to the west. A change of this kind
may' be expected to influence the position of the ore body
at TIOOft. At the 1000 ft. level developments have
been good. One of the south drives has proved
225 ft. of payable ore, and another drive also to
the south is proving the contour and dimensions of this
large ore body. Some rich assays have been obtained,
but it will take a good deal of rich stuff to sweeten the
large half-yearly' output of 200,000 tons. Mount Lyell
gives employment to 2000 hands, but a good deal of time
is lost in the open-cut workings at this time of year.
There are about three-quarters of a million tons of fluxing
ore available in the open-cut workings, and very much
larger quantities underground. A start is to be made to
mine pyritic ore below the open cut, and this opening of
these deep levels in the parent mine is a matter of some
consequence.
George F. Bryant, of the Cathcart, Ararat
(Vic.), trumpets a solo as sweet as that of Harry Stone-
ham. “I have no hesitation in saying that present
developments point to the fact that you have a most valu-
able property which, when properly drained and worked
on systematic lines will return good profits for your out-
lay 7.” It means a pretty big order to make up the slab of
capital spent off and on by investors on the Cathcart
ground. Even with the present co., £45,000 has been
sunk from calls and gold.. George has nice, patchy
gold to cut into, but stock-exchangeites question the
width of the gutter and the ease with which dirt can be
taken out! On this point George speaks with as much
confidence as a German general the day before the battle.
Give the wash time to drain, and it will come out cheaply 7,
says he. “Give me time” is also the tune to which
llie bears of Cathcart are dancing to-day. The market is
badly over-sold, and every' rich patch George alights on 1
is a hot brick. The public, which doesn’t like the bears,
laughs over the animals’ jumps, and asks for more of
the performance. This it is likely to get, if George’s
hypotheses be correct.
The Alpine Gold-Mining Co. at Reedy Creek
(Vic.) presents its fifth half-yearly report. The balance-
sheet isn’t wildly cheerful in itself; the gold obtained
during the six months to 31st March was worth £1333
3s. Id., and the outgoings were £1445 17s. 3d. By col-
lecting £l7 14s. 2d. in calls, and by 7 reducing the bank
balance from £97 14s. 2d. to £2 14s. 2d., the concern got
to the end of the half-year alive, but £2 14s. 2d. isn’t
much to close any half-year with. At the same time,
there is said to be much hope for the Alpine. It was
floated on the strength of the old Alpine reef, but it found
quite unexpectedly another lode, and some of the recent
small crushings have gone IJoz., or even 2oz. They 7
were very 7 small certainly—s 4 tons at 20z., and 73 at
ljoz.—but it seems that 300 tons had to stand over for
lack of water. The dam is now full, and the baby plant
is pounding gaily 7 on the 300 tons, and it is hoped that the
first div. is not only in sight, but close at hand. There are
only 22,000 shares issued, so a humble £550 would pay 6d.
per share. n'-kot"
* * •* te
New Black Horse, Egerton (Vic.), isn’t to be
mixed up with the old Black Horse of Martin Louglilin
fame. That show petered put when old Vickery went to
the place where mining men have calls other than those
of mines to attend to. Still, the atmosphere is pretty
warm round the New 7 Black Horse owing to the Board
having swapped mine-managers in a hurry and then hav-
ing quarrelled with local men for not paying calls. The
co. is working a little away from the old mine, and
trial lots went high. Thi n a crushing of 120 tons
fizzled out with only 7£oz. Much blue talk was heard over
tiiis yield, as a preliminary “fair sample of the slopes ”
had assayed at the rate of 38oz. to the ton. Directors
propose further calls, and intend to smash into the stopes
to get the slab of gold that missed the miners’ pick when
tiie breaking down was done. They have 15ft. to play
with, and although they iiave cut company with their
late manager, they don’t hesitate to give him as an
authority that Bft. is pay able. With such yards of confi-
dence in tiie mine the B ‘ard ought to stop slinging abuse
at the yokels who pasted them with scrip. Rather-hould
they offer thanksgiving that they hold so much more of a
ffiine which “is to equal its famous namesake, the old
Black Horse.”
Russell’s Reef, Lauriston (Vic.), has the mis-
fortune to belong to a zone of saddle country, where the
quartz and gold have been deposited in tiie anticlines
instead of at the apex of the folds, as at Bendigo. Why
this should be so even Geology Dunn, with all his
saddleising theories, has failed to state. The fact stands
also that gold in the bottom of the troughs isn’t
in quantity like that in the quartz at the top of the folds,
nor is the quartz itself so extensive. Consequently,
Lauriston mining is as fitful as a maiden at spring time.
At Russell’s £57,500 of capital and £134,000 of gold have
been expended for a return to shareholders of
£40,000. There might have been more, but Lauris-
ton mining is not yet of the vigorous order
that rips ahead with shaft sinking and builds up
reserves of stone. Tiie battery anti-dates Methuselah,
and so costs amount to 4s. per ton, when with proper
appliances they ought to be 50 per cent. less. Mining
charges are high. First, because of haphazard work
thar. has to be done with the stopes close to the battery.
Next, because of the disturbed state of the country.
There is always enough gold to tempt the investor, arid
just enough belief in the market over the chance of a rise
to keep Russells from drifting far into the land of mining
derelicts. - - #
' The Melbourne and London shareholders of
Tingha Consolidated (N.S. VV.) are likely to blush rosy red
when they work out the results of that John Bull-
Coleman show. No less than £16,594 worth of tin was
swept into the market, and only £3155 working profit
earned. This is poor promise for a dredging-
go, though the chairman (Mr. C. Brazier) avows that
the mines “never looked better for good yields.”
What is the use of having good yields unless costs are
cheap ? How can that be the ease with the Tingha Con-
solidated when 9d. is required to get lid. If hundreds
of thousands of yards were turned over by each plant
such a margin might bring in fair profits. But they
cannot work that way yet at this special tinny show.
What Brazier thinks is shown by his admission that he
shot his ordinaries at 3s. lljd. Now he won’t give a
penny 7 for that class of scrip. John Bull has 175,000 of it
out of 200,000, and no doubt has built up hopes of
defraying some of the extra burden of the Llovd-George
budget from the profits. What a bubble pricked 1
* » * *
In the calculation of working costs rn concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority' of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
witli the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W_ and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
■* * * * '
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any' other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very' light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
ar.d scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
» * » *
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavy grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work in hand. These
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing' 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4£ft. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.* Id
* * » *
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Roofing Slates and
Sheets for lining and walling, are light, strong, durable,
cheap and easily fixed, as well as heat-resisting, ant and
acid proof. Largely adopted where comfort, appearance
and durability are considered. Particulars from James
Hardie and Co., Sydney or Melbourne.* [2
* * » •
The Post Magazine & Insurance Monitor,
London, of 31/10/’OB, in commenting upon The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, writes: —
“ Wherever the Society has gone it has stood for sound
life assurance principles, and it can look back upon one-
third of a century of useful work.”*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* » * *
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the most efficient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depot for Best Yorkshire
“Farnlev ” Iron.*
* * • *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
■* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to itistal for this
class of work. 1 Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
» * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
•* tr * * ■
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silbkriserg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
The engineer who appreciates the necessity for
up-to-date equipment in his shops should consider the
merits of Herbert’s Machine Tools. Their Hexagon
Turret Lathe which is now being largely used in Aus-
tralia, embodies all the latest improvements, and is in
fact a triumph of engineering skill. It is specially adapted
for use with modern cutting tools of high speed steel and
for bar work, forgings, tapering, etc. It is claimed that
it will turn out a higher grade of work than any other
machine at an infinitely increased rate. Gibson, Battle,
& Co. Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney and 128 William Street,
Melbourne are glad to give catalogues to anyone
interested.*


x rant to H.M.
,cii
4*
&
k a
Charles Heidsieck
REIMS
EXTRA DRY
£ w
FINEST EXTRA Q?
“SILVASHEEN” Satin
“ Sllvasheen,” of g-lorious lustre and sheen, silky to the
touch, and fascinating to the eye. Finish is guaranteed
permanent. In place of genuine satin for all linings, as
well as fancywork, “ Sllvasheen ” is beyond compare.
LOOK FOR THE NAME .
No matter what you are told, and no matter who tells
it, there is no genuine “ Silvasheen ” unless it bears the
“Silvasheen” name printed on the selvedge. If j T our
draper hasn’t “Silvasheen” with the name on the
selvedge, don’t be talked into buying a substitute, or you
will be sorry. For your own safety and satisfaction,
insist on the genuine “Sllvasheen,” with the name
“Sllvasheen ” stamped along the edge.
Try it in Your New Gown .
a
o £ffi
8?
R
Ever notice the smell of drugs
in a chemist’s shop pretty
strong, isn’t it? —it’s not a nice
atmosphere to work in, and we
chemists have to stand it for
such long hours that you can’t
wonder we’re worn out long
before close up time.
There’s an old saying that
“ few doctors believe in their
own physic”—well, a chemist
is much the same as a doctor in
that respect, for with my shelves
full of stuffs to cure everything
under the sun, including “that
tired feeling,” l turn to a cup
of good hot tea myself—because
l find it brisks me up, and there’s
no harmful reaction afterwards.
freshly made cup of R o bu r
at 1 1 a.m., and another at
3 p.m., with those 1 take at
my meals, keeps me pretty
alert during the day 1 know
no tea that l like so well as
No. 1 Grade Robur it’s
absolutely pure, and very cheap
at that money, at least, that’s
my opinion.
The Chemist.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY-
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 4, 1909.
My Dear Artnt,—
It was a proud procession (Messrs. Marich and
Southwell headed it) that walked into the Bank
of N.S.W. on Saturday morning to make the
biggest individual deposit to the Hospital Satur-
day Fund. One of the proud party stubbed his toe
crossing the road to the bank, and remarked, as
did the Spanish hidalgo, “ This comes of walking
on the earth.” Mr. Shackleton was with the pro-
cession, but he dragged his anchors, so to speak. If
he were proud of the cheque Mr. Marich carried, he
successfully concealed the fact. The exact amount
on the document was £514 10s. 6d., the same being
the proceeds of the Shackleton lecture at the
Town Hall. Messrs. Denison Miller and Alfred
Milson. who received it, all but burst into tears of
gratitude. The Icebreaker was asked to motor
round to look at the collection box, but he grimly
declined. The Box had blocked his path ever
since he left his club in the morning. In fact, the
night before—very late the night before —whilst he
was the guest of a large collection of pressmen, two
premature feminines with a too-sudden box tried to
get into the assemblage. Legally, it seems. Hos-
pital Saturday commences one instant after mid-
night, and collecting is allowed whenever the last
stroke of Friday has struck on the Post Office
clock.
A kindly resident of Gunnedah, who declines
publicity and who will certainly save his soul
alive, sends me a cheque for five pounds for the
Hospice for the Dying at Darlinghurst. He
writes: “Your recent reference to this charity
strongly appealed to me. Its devoted promoters
deserve every assistance in their noble mission.”
Lord and Lady Dudley are at Gurrandooley at
the time of writing. There is a certain lack of
originality in this move on their part. Every
vice-regality since the beginning of things
has gone to Gurrandooley, for is it not
the headquarters of the immense Osborne
family, which owns more sheep than any other
family in Australia, and also—during race-weeks
or other festive occasions—the Australian Club !
Gurrandooley, which is over against Bungendore,
is an extensive, rambling old place, resembling
more than most big up-country houses the typical
Australian homestead of the untravelled Briton’s
dreams. It’s present occupant is Mr. Harry
Osborne, the eldest scion of the “Pat” Osborne
house. His wife was one of the numerous and
fair Madden girls of Melbourne.
Lord Dudley’s team of cricketers engaged a
band or troupe of Parliamentarians last Thursday,
and, in the racy phrase of the flannelled oaf with
grass stains on him, climbed all over them. The
Trumper of the afternoon was Dr. Skey, who toils
in a medical capacity at Garden Island. The
doctor is a left-hander— “ strong,” lam told by a
sporting friend. “on the off, and no mean hand
at pasting them to leg.” (What this means I
know not, but I give it for what it is worth.)
Anyhow, this player compiled a century in quick
order, and also bowled with much precision. He
is married to one of Melbourne’s Miss Smiths
and the lady was on the spot to register a discreet
cheer in recognition of her relative’s triumph.
I should admire to know who was responsible
for the furnishing of our harbor-side Government
House. The same person, I opine, whose home
was described by Lord Rosebery as a combination
of 50-guinea couches and 30-shilling oleographs.
As it chances, there are no oleographs where the
Dudleys abide at present, but there are a host of
oils, which, for all-round villainousness, beat the
average mechanically-fashioned picture out of
sight. For example, the “ Lord Carrington ” who
glimmers woodenlv in the hall. The maroon-
colored drawing-room couches and things ought to
be either dynamited or re-covered, and so dis-
guised. However, there may be a subtle wisdom
at the back of all this. The awfulness of the
furniture and pictures and things that pervade
the dwelling is calculated to drive the Ex-
cellencies of the moment to gaze from them across
the bay. Urban aldermen and so forth haven’t
been able to strew crude-colored sofas about the
harbor or hang calamitous portraits in the
Botanical Gardens, and so these fair spots are
always in a state of beauty to rest the tired and
outraged vice-regal eye.
There was a dance for the young people who
attended the Shackleton lecture at Government
House last week. It occurred after the explorer
had told all he knew about the Far South regions,
and lasted till the smallish hours. The sitters-out
were provided with food for conversation in the
shape of a stove, pots, pans, and sledge, tin cups,
and other hardware appertaining to the hero of
the evening. The goods lay stretched on the
verandah outside the ballroom, mute evidence of
what a comfortlessly, primitive job Poling is.
Dr. Henry Shackleton, M.D., the father of our
recent visitor (he left us on Sunday night) practises
near London. In expressing to an interviewer
his delight at sonny’s achievement, he mentioned
that his Ernest was born in Co. Kildare, Ireland.
Also that whilst on a voyage to South Africa in
1900 in the Tintagel Castle he wrote a book called
“0.H.M.5.”
One who signs himself “ A Horrid Man ” sends
this:—
The women graduates of Sydney ’Varsity left their
husbands and kids last Saturday to argue with the cold
remains of Friday’s dinner while they themselves sat
down to an eight-course collation in honor of themselves
at a city restaurant. About 200 M. A.’s, B.A.’s, M.B.’s,
etc., assembled to take stock of each other. Looking at
the list of those present, it is clear that the Sydney
’Varsity, with its higher education of women, has not
produced one lady that stands out far above her fel-
lowesses. The Uni. has produced she-graduates in Arts,
Science, Law, Medicine, and Dentistry. Some of her
daughters have decent Government biliets, up to £4OO a
year. Others have comfortable practices. Some have
married well, fair or rottenly, and some not at all. But
not during the 25 years women have been graduating has
one really shone out as a winner. The secret seems to be
that the most (.promising and brilliant get married, and
so rock the cradle instead of shaking the universe. I
suppose the girl who isn’t smart enough to snare a hus-
band isn’t likely to otherwise distinguish herself. For
goodness sake don’t say who wrote this or I will have to
clear out.
The Sep. Levys have almost settled down in
C.-J. Darley’s old house. Mr. Theo. Marks, who
undertook the formidable job of setting it in order
for them, has altered it almost out of recognition.
The narrow hall that was the fashion in the
remote period when this aged place was built has
been transformed into a wide, high, smoking
room ; the dining-room has been put back, as
to period, a hundred years or so; that is
to say, what was once Early Victorian
has been made Georgian. Parts of the
house have been pulled down and others built
up. The present occupants have it on a ten
years’ lease only, but their activity in making it
habitable, and the fact that the Darley family is
now permanently located in England, suggest
that they mean to acquire it for their own
ultimately.
The eldest youngster of Pa Uhr Smith, of the
Australia, marries a daughter of Dr. Quaife next
Thursday. Smith, junior, is a black-and-white
artist, and the bride-elect has artistic leanings.
The Charles Lloyd Jones pair will quit their
Mosman home, with its all-round sea-viewage, and
abandon their motor launch, and desert their other
desirable possessions next week for a two-years’
absence in dear, cold England. Mrs. L. J. is a
sister of the bride-elect mentioned higher up.
Miss Phyllis Clubbe, one of Dr. Clubbe’s
daughters, was chief witness in a cruelty-to-a-cat
case, recently heard at the Paddington Police
Court. She merits an approving pat on the head.
Out of any 20 maidens who see animals being ill-
treated rather less than Jth of a maiden has the
courage and resolution to do something in the
matter. There are in this community some
wanton torturers of dogs and horses and other
friendly creatures that mostly don’t dream of
hitting back, who should get all the punishment a
police court can inflict, and a sound boiling or two
to boot. Come to think of it, there is a S.P.C.A.
here, which girls with leisure time on their hands
might do worse than join.
Dorothy, the youngest daughter of the T. A,
Dibbses, of North Sydney, was married last week to
a man from Maoriland, one William Traill Ritchie.
The bride’s father, who has a beautiful billet near
the till of the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
is one of Sydney’s most affluent citizens, and his
roll-top desk at the bank is a symbol of great
financial importance. The wedding ceremony
was fully choral and very frockv. Both the Dibbs
brothers, the late George and the present T. A.,
had and have a preponderance of girls in their
respective large families. The late beknighted
brother was very proud of his 10 daughters.
Concerning my remarks about the little copper
cross on the red ribbon, the V.C. that Captain
Hore-Ruthven wears, and which order I said two
Australians had acquired, a Vandemonian turns
his battery on me :
Your memory ha< played you false. State Frights!!
Where does my State come in ? Lieutenant Bisdee wears
the honor. A pension of about threepence a day goes
with it, but Bisdee has inherited considerable of the
earth, and is not taking any threepenny pensions. Be-
sides Bell, the Westralian, and Mavgar, the Victorian, Dr.
Howse, of Orange, has the V.C. bit of copper.
One of the Sydney Arts and Crafts girls is
making the cutest hatpins of stamped leather.
The weapon she turns out is a light affair that
won’t catch in your hair or net or veil. Most of
the ornamental pins have this bad habit, and then
you use language that would not be approved by
the Girls’ Realm Guild. The leather hat stabbers
may be got at the Roycroft Library.
The death of Charles Conder, the Australian-
born artist, would seem to have passed almost
unnoticed in his own country. He died in a
lunatic asylum in the prime of life. Expressions
of regret, made in first-rate prose and verse, have
been plentiful enough from first-rate artistic and
literary sources on both sides of the English
Channel. Mr. Laurence Binyon, the Saturday
Reviewer, gives the McCulloch Collection (the
collector piled his money bags in Australia) a nibful
of acid because it contains no Conder. “ Per-
haps, now that he is dead,” writes Binyon,
“the Chantrey trustees will realise that he ought to
be represented in the national collection.” His
place is pronounced as “secure.” and the state-
ment that “England can ill afford to lose such
artists as Charles Conder” ought to give rest to
any perturbed painter’s spirit. Conder made
what is called a “good marriage,” his wife being
heavily moneyed. His delicate and distinctive
work in fan painting brought him much coin of
his own, so the wolf never howled obtrusively on
the Conder doorstep.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly presided—in the absence of
Mayoress Allen Taylor—over a meeting called to
arrange details for the Dreadnought matinee to
given next Wednesday at the Royal. Thirteen
ladies responded to the 11 a.m. call to help to
build the battleship, but this unlucky number,
when the meeting was half-way through, was
raised to 15 by the arrival of two more crushed-
looking feminities. So the requisite £2,000,000 is
doubtless assured. The proceedings were too
placid for further mention.
Concerning the bouquet of “black carnations”
that the cable tells of as a presentation from the
Kaiser to ex-President Roosevelt, of Uncle
Samuel’s dominions, a friend of mine, who lovingly
tickles a flower garden with hoe, rake and spade,
tells me that “there are no black carnations.
The Emperor-given posy must have been very
dark crimson carnations. There are no black
flowers, and the only pure blue flower
is the blue salvia.” And no doubt scores
of persons are ambling through life under
the delusion that there are really truly blue
stocks, blue dephiniums and blue sweet pea, and
that the fairy flax is blue, likewise the cornflower
and the forget-me-not.
A man writes me :
At Harden railway station, on a recent Monday night,
22 newly-wedded couples started off from the same plat-
form on their 22 honeymoons. Since then four, if not
more, other weddings have eventuated in the locality.
Now- why is this amazing rush of matrimony at
the little town of Harden ?
“After the Opera,” the curtain-raiser that is to
pad out “An Englishman’s Home,” proved to be
familiar to some of us. It was published m an
American or French magazine, and is very
“fresh,” within the American meaning of the
word. A pretty young married woman returns
from the opera with her husband —returns to their
joint and several flat. He leaves her immedi-
ately to go a short journey by train. There enters
the Tertium Quid, who is there at the request of
the ladv, and not by his own inclination. He
is a putfeckly honorable person, and would be
satisfied to sit 20 paces from the siren and talk
Antarctica. It was all her fault, as Adam said of
Eve when he wrote to the local paper complaining
about the Fall, and signed himself “ Constant
Reader.” As a matter of fact, the lady does very
swift running. While their torrid phrases are bal-
ancing to corners, they hear what they take to be
the stealthy step of a burglar. The the
next few moments is terrifying. The lady’s law-
ful tyrant has returned. So she thinks, but it is
a burglar. The lover flees, the hubby returns,
the thrills intensify, and there’s a fine unhappy
ending.
Miss Ola Humphrey, as the lady who
would put her pink slippered foot through
an important commandment, wears a gown
that might give hints in scintillations to the
Aurora which ice-breaker Shackleton saw
South Polewards. The gown experts call its
color “quince.” Perhaps some quinces are for-
gotten on the tree long enough to allow them to
acquire a deep, mellow pink hue, but the small
boy has a good memory, and the quince that gives
him a bad pain and the quince the vegetable per-
son delivers at your back door for jelly-making
are sourly green. Ola Jane’s “ quince ” charmeuse
has the pink of coral and apricot in it, and the
overdress is of net smothered in silver, mother-of-
pearl and fish-scale embroidery. The train is
square, with wide tucks across the length that
swirls snaky-wise on the carpet. It is a gown
with an emotional significance. The silver lines
on the front are all on the downward and side-
ward slant, expressive of the young wife’s inclina-
tion to get off the straight and narrow path that is
not bordered with primroses, and on to roads that
are cut on the jag or the bias.
Senator Pearce, the Defence man, was at the
Royal on Saturday night to see Brown’s amazing
defence of Myrtle Villa, and to hear how shells
can whimper and scream in real stage war.
Bengough began his season of cartoonery and
raillery on Saturday at the Centenary Hall. He
made lightning sketches of Mr. J. C. Williamson,
Mr. William Lvne and Conductor Slapoffski, but
the audience especially rejoiced at his humorous
work. A crayon triangle becomes by a few
strokes a cat’s face. A few more strokes make
the animal a hen. Another ten seconds’ work and
the egg-mother is standing on the bald pate of a
dismal man and is wearing specs and a woman's
hat. The moral, the cartoonist-monologuist says,
is “Young men, don’t marry outside of Aus-
tralia. ”
Cartoonist Bengough has his chubby little wife
with him. A pmart frocker is she, who can wear
a white serge tailor-made with effect. Ben-
gough and wife look counter-irritants to pes-
simism. The bantling Optimists’ Club ought to
snare them as members. The comedian tells that
when in London he went to a big hall to hear Mr.
Lloyd George speak on some burning question or
other. The speaker had spoken for about three
minutes to a crowded audience when a girl arose
and alleged in a shrill voice, “You must give
votes to women.” She was a suffragette, of
course, and of course she was ejected, but what
has stuck in Bengough’s memory was the mode of
ejection. Three or four or sometimes six able
bodied varlets simply flung themselves at the centre
of disturbance and dragged the beautifully-dressed
and sometimes betitled woman from the hall
with no more respect than they would use in
shifting an intoxicated park-loafer. “It was the
palpable glee with which they went at their ugly
work ” that amazed the teller. All through the
evening the organised interruptions continued,
and so did the indecorous throwing-out of the
political female. Awhile later, Mr. Bengough
was discussing some Canadian trade grievance
with Lord Carrington, who until then was
unaware of it. “ Why don’t you protest? ” asked
Carrington. “Why don’t you memorialise us on
the matter ? ” The cartoonist swore by the maple
leaf that Canada had been doing so for years.
“ Well,” sighed the noble lord, “you must worry
us; you must start to heckle.” “ After the
manner of the suffragettes,” remarked the visitor.
“Yes,” was the lordly answer; “and they are
going to win.” He spoke the prophecy italic-
wise.,
Miss Marie Narelle, writing from I)alby, in
Queensland, mentions the rain as raining every
day. Her tour included a coach trip of 120 miles,
mostly over black-soil country. The little co.
will go north as far as Cooktown, then cross to
Thursday Island, and sing over to Java, India,
China, and Japan.
Mrs. Hugh Ward leaves presently for Perth
(W.A.), where her husband’s company is due at
the end of this month of May for the beginning of
its Australasian season. Miss Florence Redfern,
a pretty little party who has been with various
companies, has got a year’s engagement with the
Wurd-Palotta group, and goes with Mrs. Ward to
Groperland.
Miss Fitzroy, the actress who has been playing
the well-gowned and fashionable maternal pro-
genitor in that blush-raising play, “The Hypo-
crites,” is a persistent exploiter of the Princess
robe. Not “modified Princess” or “partial
directoire,” but a skin-fitting frock with the waist
in its very own zone below the ribs, and a 20-inch
waist at that. As a member of the audience re-
marked whilst watching the lady egg her son on
to desert his rightful girl and make a rich mar-
riage, “She couldn’t be maternal with that
waist.”
Chung Ling Soo, the Chinese juggler, was the
guest of Mr. Ernest Watt at Rose Bay Golf Links
lately. Mr. Soo is not pure dragon-on-yellow-
ground as many folk suppose. The legend goes
that one parent was Chinese and the other Scotch,
wherefore I presume that his real nam'e is either
Ah Macdonald or Duncan Chung.
Jack Ripperism in another form is abroad in
Sydney. A few weeks since some destructive
imbecile ruined a number of plate-glass windows
by scoring them with a diamond. Last week the
big oil portrait of Mayor Allen Taylor that hangs
on the stairway of the Town Hall was wilfully
damaged, and now two large oil seascapes at the
Australia have been ripped up, as if with a blunt
knife. Some person is badly in need of a term of
compulsory oakum picking.
Ada Crossley will raise her famous contralto
next Saturday night at the Town Hall. The
concert is to be in the interests of charity.
According to Mr. Filson Young, a recently-
arisen musical critic who writes with profound
self-confidence in the London Saturday Review,
the future careers of two singers have been assured
by the last opera season at Covent Garden. These
fortunate persons are Americans—Mrs. Frease-
Green and Mrs. Saltzmann-Stevens. Both are
pupils of Jean de Reszke. The critic writes, “We
get voices, it is true, from Australia ; but as yet
Australia is too far out of the beaten track to pro-
vide the kind of atmosphere in which a lovely
voice can develop alongside of a genuine artistic
perception.” I suppose some will understand his
meaning. I can’t. Then he goes on to say :
But from America, young:, uncorrupted by culture,
unsapped by tradition, now as a nation at the awkward
age and at the least beautiful stage of youth, comes the
first sign of what will some day be developed art —
namely, tuneful voices of women, j-oung voices, fresh,
untired, unspoiled voices—voices that, being impassion-
ate and unworn with emotion, are most easily bent and
trained to express passion and emotion in musical art.
One would think that might as justly be written
of Australia. However, re the two Americans
whom Mr. Young pronounces “ conspicuous suc-
cesses ” : Mrs. Green was Sieglind in “ Walkure,”
and Mrs. Stevens was Briinnhilde, and the latter
so distinguished herself by her conception and
singing of the r6le that she is now “in the front
rank of opera singers.” We’d better keep our
pyes on this pair, and see if they win out according
to Filson Young’s prediction.
Miss Eva O’Connor’s top note in “ The Minstrel
Boy’’took the fancy of a London Queen’s Hall
audience on last St. Patrick’s night. Though no
encores were allowed, a double recall was given
the Australian. Her second song, “ The Memory
of the Dead,” also had a rousing effect. Reference
to the corpses of patriots (their own patriots) will
always rouse a Hibernian audience to enthusiasm.
The Sydney soprano also had a good reception in
Birmingham, where she sang under engagement
to the Gaelic League.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


m
V*
<s>
<9
i.
K
SSS
w
MA
\=|||%g|ggf|
■\
£££
J
s*
X
-J
X.
S
M
tea.
3
#■
vM
\
’Mm
hffim
ww
■■» - -h *
pgr
m
v
/j*
JYi
'V.
X
y&&
MM.
vs
wiuigyg:
X
h
;x
\v:
■■V-;
*s£
K
.%x
!A *»»-.
a *"
3&S
X
X
k Vi
sfC
>a
X
§£“"2
\s
\\
f r
s
K.
K
■^ ! W|
«'Si
w.s«® vw
;? 'W
C-O-B-R-A ?she Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Round the World
At boot-time due,
Hitches up
His team and drives,
Ev’ry morning
He arrives.
He has time
And cash to spare,
“COBRA” takes
Him ev’rywhere !
All the other
Sorts he loses 1
“COBRA” is the
Stuff HE uses !


Every Girl
Q /
r
»5
)9n
hi/.
who desires comfort
irv walking - should wear
DUNLOP
Rubber Heels
They look well t- wear well.
Acctpf only
Du ill op Brand.
Obtainable
all stores.
881
m
f
onto to date.
un!ess/ittedwifh our
Solid Rubber
Vehicle Tyres
which not only absorb all noise &
vibration but double the li/e of
the Vehicle y
yltted/rom 35 perset
.(rlast ybr years on a private conveyance
Price list on application gk
„4Dunlop Rubber CoV-Tf
Melbourne - .Sydney-Adelaide—%
dgPcrth-Brisbane CrChristchurchQl-Z),
KANDY KOOLA EUROPEAN
TRIP COMPETITION.
Ist Prize—lst Class Return Trip to Europe, value £l5O.
2nd Pi’ize—lst Class Return Trip to New Zealand, value £3O.
3rd Prize—lst Class Return Trip to Blue Mountains, value £2O.
Thirty Victorian candidates are now being nominated for this competition.
There is no expense whatever connected with the nomination stage—no coupons —no
purchases of tea.
For full particulars see Melbourne daily papers, or apply to Kandy Koola Tea Ware-
house, 578 Bourke Street, Melbourne, for nomination form.
PRIZES VALUE £2OO.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 3, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik, —
It was a sad requiem that tolled at St. Paul’s
for the deceased Janet Clarke. It would be hard
to point to any society woman who was more
numerous in the land than the Cliveden widow.
She was president of the Alliance Francaise, and
chief of that now very tired Austral Salon. She
was at the head of the Salon from its early, vigorous
days when it indulged in more than artistic and
mild literature teas. The affairs of which the de-
ceased lady was a vigorous committee woman are
many as the sands of the sea. She had been an
“absent member” for a year before her death,
but she was not forgotten. Her illnesses would
have killed half a dozen women of ordinary
vitality. It is a point to cogitate over if half the
women who claw at the fringe of society, and who
cringed to this titled society woman, ever recog-
nised that she was a governess in her younger
days. And if they did remember the fact, one
wonders if it led them to regard the governesses in
their own purse-proud homes as women of the same
intelligent calibre as the much-adored relict of
Clarke, deceased.
Clieveden is a treasury of artistic things, and
the Clarkes were also keen on early Australian
books and relics. The battered and tinny col-
lection that was Ned Kelly s armor (and which
was shown to fire the fighting lust of every Aus-
tralian small boy) belonged to the Clarkes-; but an
earlier collection is an exhaustive armory of
aboriginal weapons.
The late Mrs. Clarke belonged to the Snodgrass
clan—names as well known as the Clarkes. Mr.
Snodgrass, the old man, was a gentleman of much
land. A son recently wrote his memoirs, and the
volume would have roused the sensible old gentle-
man to sardonic laughter. Mrs. Clarke in-
herited a sense of humor and balance
from her father. The brothers Snodgrass
belong to a carefully-selected circle. Evelyn, of
Reverend tendencies, was ever an ideal curate.
His drawing-room manners reached a pinnacle of
perfection, and he knew to a nicety how to bal-
ance his cup of afternoon tea and manage his
speckless hat and carry on a delicate conversa-
tion all in the same ten minutes without a traceof
an agonised look. Brother Douglas, with a high
falsetto voice and a brown-red wig, was always the
most gentle and tame of afternoon-tea young men.
Rupert Clarke’s daughter, Phyllis, who has
been with mommer in Mayfair collecting her
lingerie and purple attire, is to be married in
May to Reggie Powers. Probably the wedding
will not be put off, as it was intended all along to
have it as quiet as a wedding may be. It is to
happen at Rupertswood, Sunbury.
Pansy Montague—the “Milo” of the music
halls —has been received into tire perfumed bosom
of society in London. There can be no doubt
about it. She dined with the Bishop of London.
And it was not at a private table at the Carlton
(do Bishops ever do that ?), but in the benign
presence of the Bishopess, and the feed of daring
was done at the Bishopage or Bishopry, and
picked lambs from the flock adorned the occasion.
The guests were all duly chronicled in the
Respectable papers. The Church has embraced
tlie Stage in a discreet manner heretofore, but
this is a case of the Church fairly hugging the
Music Hall and the Pagan worship of Venus.
Bishops are so cushionly and comfortably
respectable, like the pews in a well-fed church.
The very plumpness of bishoply silken calves is
reassuring. State Governor Carmichael ex-
panded on the Bishoply subject at a
dinner at one of the Melbourne clubs,
whipped together for his benefit in the early days
of his State vice-royalty. His Ex. mentioned that
he liked clubs. Thereupon he drifted into
snatches about the clubs to which he belonged.
Mentioning one particular favorite in London, he
said, “We have bishops, even, for members.” It
is so comfortable to belong to a club that owns
bishops as fellow members, for on a late night it’s
advisable to walk home with a bishop. If you
don’t live in his direction, even, it’s good to make
a point of walking that way and taking the
bishoply arm. If the eye of the Law happens to
notice too critically the wobble of your walk the
shining calves of the bishop will so gently soften
his stare that he’ll perhaps think it’s the bishop’s
wobble, and put it down to a spirit of divinity.
Speaking of speeches, I suppose Gov. Car-
michael is one of the worst orators in Australia ;
yet he is worth listening to. His humor is so
dry, and it crusts every remark. He knows so
much, and has excellent things to say—but it
takes great ear-strain to follow the saying of
them. Most of his remarks are addressed to the
ceiling, and he speaks with an eye cocked medi-
tatively sideways. Or else he mutters to the rug
at his feet with a die-away sigh like the patter of
an ave. Occasionally he looks at his audience
with pathetic appeal, imploring release. He
crushes his hands together, and tries each knuckle
to see if it is dislocated. Yet all the time lie is
saying good things—witty things and remarks
that show culture and artistic feeling. Anyone
with intense application is rewarded for following
the dives and dashes of his elusive voice.
The Carmichaels appear everywhere with the
new-come English diplomats in hand, Sir Charles
Lucas and Mr. Pearson. Sir Charles is a fine,
big, burly Englishman, well groomed, with a
pointed beard and a continuous twinkle in his
eye; in both eves, in fact. Men find him a “good
sort ” —a man who has culture rather than culchaw
—and a clever talker. Mr. Pearson is a keen-
eyed, small, thick-set man, forever on the alert.
Punch McKinley summoned his intimates to
him the week before last, and instigated them
to throw the footwear of luck after daughter
Ethel, who said “I will” to the Rev. George
Ambrose Kitchen. The knot was tied by instal-
ments of clergy headed by Canon Stephen, and
with full choral solemnity. Maggie Stirling added
her big contralto to the booming of the organ. A
brother clergyman, Mr. Crotty, stood gallantly to
the bridegroom, and saved him from nerve crises,
brain storms and other ills to which mankind in
the marrying is subject. Kathleen Druner, sister
Ruby and small Betty Potter helped the bride
with her frills. The frills included a wonderful
veil of Mechlin, and the bridesmaids threw blue
and white into the picture. The bride is a clever
graduate of Melbourne University, and her hus-
band takes up the cure of souls. at'Werribee (Vic.),
the haunt of the Pursy Chirnsides. i.
Mrs. Tessie Reed has left for the land where
sonorous titles abide, wearing a look of business
in her eye. The handsome widow leaves many
lamenting lovers who would willingly have be-
husbanded her and paid her travelling expenses.
The abandoned ones retain no ray of comfort save
the faint glimmer of hope that is contained in a
non-committal farewell smile. The fair quitter
proposes to put in the London season with her
sister, who used to append the name of
JTryphena ” to this page.
Last week’s cargo of trippers to the Big Smoke
included the L. L. Smith, with his wife and their
clever daughter, Louise. The irrepressible •‘doc-
tor” has been feeling his age lately (although he
is still on the near side of 80), and a sea voyage
was necessary to blow the cobwebs off him, he
said. Daughter Louise goes with the idea of
getting some further and “finishing” study in
languages. Incidentally, too, she is to be pre-
sented at Court—for the second time. She was
brought under the august eye of royalty in her
kiddie days, when her dad was in London as an
Exhibitioner Commissioner or something, and the
fact must have been noted for future reference,
for when the Duchess of York (now Princess of
Wales) came to Australia she positively remem-
bered Louise Smith, and gladdened the girleen’s
soul by recognising her. The recollecting of
names and faces, with the aid of carefully indexed
notes, is one of royalty’s fine arts.
Commencement Day at the University on
Saturday brought out all the gay birds of para-
dise that float round Alma Mater when the profs,
have got ’em all on. The place shone with scarlet
gowns and ermine hoods and all that glory of color
that is forbidden at any other time to civilian man
except in his socks and, perhaps, his tie. Chan-
cellor Madden poured molten gold over the
occasion with his Irish tongue and touch of
the blarney. The students were not there—and
so descended Peace. Among the degrees and
honors, only one degree of Doctor of Science was
won—and that by a girl. Rosa Janet White
hooked the coveted honor. She is a lucky girl,
for that degree carries a hood of adorable purple.
The lady derived quite a minor piece of satis-
faction from the fact that the Royal Society of
London has included a thesis of hers (“The
Latent Life in Seeds ’’) in its libraries.
Two young gentlemen of the Gallery-Student
persuasion write on lady-like notepapee and
invite “kompany” to a view of summer land-
scapes in the Guild Hall. The type of picture is
one that will probably appeal to people during
this wintry snap of cold. The Aspiring Ones are
yclept Pen Boyd and Frank Crozier.
Balls are beginning, like a juggler’s trick. A
charity frisk in the Hawthorn Town Hall, to aid
the society of benevolent Hawthorn ladies,
drops heavily on Friday, June 4.
I hear a painfully true story of a recent bride in
another State—never mind which State. In the
first enthusiasm of a previous engagement the
lady had taken the extreme oath of allegiance by
tattooing the initials of her intended on her fair
young leg—the leg nearest to her heart. But the
engagement sustained a double fracture, and in
due course the really and truly future husband
loomed in sight. Then the initials of the discarded
one became a matter for heroic treatment. Ara-
minta put the case before a surgeon, who removed
the tattoo marks, and filled in the blank with a
nice piece of skin from another human subject of
the same sex. The grafture was a complete suc-
cess, and before the bride walked to the altar the
other week she assured her dearest friend that the
secret was perfectly safe. All the same, it has
leaked out.
Gwen Burroughs, a stage-struck maiden of Mel-
bourne society, who hit out an artistic note in an
amateur mummer show last winter in the screen
scene from “The School for Scandal,” has proved
her mettle some more. In spite of paternal ob-
jection the girl managed to get a walking-on part
in “ Kitty Bellairs.” with a chance understudying
of the Second Lead. Miss Meredith, who plays
Lady Bab of Bath in “ Bellairs,” got ill, and Miss
Gwen got her show. Lady Bab Meredith stayed
ill for two or three performances, and the hand-
some young understudy had time to make a large
footprint on the part.
There was a strongly-assorted crowd on the
vessel that bore apostles Chapman and Alexander
to this port. Fifteen “revivalists,” in addition
to those conspicuously vehement Christians,
helped to correct the worldly and fleshly influence
of a comic opera eo., the members whereof were
almost tempted to “ reach out ” for the invisible
Beyond by the inspiring example of Mr. Alex-
ander, who always ate banan \s with his porridge.
He, by the way, brought two secretaries with him
to minister to his commercial needs. Which ex-
plains why the “ Mission ” is so alertly earnest as
regards passing round the plate. Its persona]
exes, must be considerable. And again, by the
way, there were four Mormon elders on the boat,
who travelled without private secretaries, but
seemed very hopeful, it is said, of picking upsome
well-to-do disciples in these parts.
Wren has sold out his share in the Meynell,
Gunn, and Rupert Clarke combination, and he
blazes no more in the managerial box at the
show. But one place where Wren was in evi-
dence lately was among the roses. At the Royal
Show, his gardener entered a wonderful and
fearful design for a landscape garden. The work
in it was as elaborate and unnecessarily fatiguing
as a special grandmother patchwork quilt. It
was hideously conventional, and wedged with
squares and circles all worked out in petals. A
circle of scarlet geranium petals in the middle
distance was for all the world like a racecourse.
It is wonderful how hideous some carefully-tended
gardens can be. There is a scattered crowd
of expert gardeners from England who earn big
wages, and spend endless toil in perpetrating
these cut-and-dried garden-scapes. They are
invaluable to their snobbish owners, because their
former masters have been dooks or lords, and
they have spent whips of the lord’s money (or
been owed it) in sacrificing flowers to make a
pattern like a demented carpet. Another burning
light in racing haut ton has half an acre of stiff
suburban garden and lawn guarded by 30 or so
bronze storks, that bronzelv drink or catch worms
with a cast-iron poise of their numerous bodies.
It is a fearfully expensive form of ornament, and
looks to passers on the tram like one of the
plagues of Egypt let loose.
The Taits, who have been warming Picture
Parlors by hot water pipes over the frigid vault
of the Glaciariurn, will have to move along. The
skaters are coming back to frivol. On June 5 the
ice-rink opens for its frosty season. Professor
Lewis comes out again from the Cold Land, and a
hew star, Miss Baker-Edwards, a Canadian with
a gold medal for skimming thin ice and fanciful
figuring thereon, is to arrive in time for the giddy
whirl.
Will Dyson lecturettes on “ Black and White ”
and “ The Art of Caricature ” on Thursday, May
13, at the Australian Literature Society. The
affair will be the modest youth’s first appear-
ance on any public platform, and he is
in the , throes of agonised discussion whether
tp ■ wear his hair curled or have it droop
in pale artistic lines on his brow. Furthermore,
Mr. Dyson’s picture show happens on toward June
—probably just before next Parliamentary session.
It will be a heroic facing of criticism to have the
originals of his Parliamental caricatures standing
alongside their pictures. There is some deep,
dark mystery at present about the opener of Mr.
Dyson’s show.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
The S.A. Art Society’s Exhibition was biown or washed
open and privately viewed on Thursday, amid the deluge.
A larsre but very drowned multitude saw the deed well
and duly done. Mr. Sowdon was responsible for the key-
turning, and handed out some very interesting advice on
Art criticism. It appears that a person who paints red
grass and a green sky is a colorist, and one who paints
blue grass and a black sky is an impressionist; but one
who paints blue sky and green grass is merely a realist
and of no account. There are 156 pictures in the
Exhibition. Hans Hevsen hasn't one, because he is
still rusticating in the wilds of Hahndorf. There
is only one Hambidge picture—“ Intermezzo," a dainty
study of a somewhat pale maiden. Will Ashton has a
dozen of his beauteous little Sydney pictures, which
(alas!) were not sold at his exhibition t’other month.
(It is better to be a tram conductor than an artist in
South Aus.) Bessie Davidson’s “Old Servant” is the
chief figure study and the largest canvas in the show, and
is a good piece of work with fine atmosphere about it;
also she has a good portrait of a cleric. Rose McPherson
shows a kiddy cuddling a teddy-bear, and some
clever still life and flower studies, chief of which is
a corner of a breakfast table with fine light effects in it.
One of this lady’s pupils, a Salter damsel, has an am-
bitious pic ure of a group of folk under a tree, with the
sunlight filtering through. It is a thing of considerable
promise. George Webb has relinquished portraits for the
moment and migrated to landscapes, which are to be had
bv the yard, or even the dress-length, in the present
exhibition.
The turner-on of the tap up above has been behaving
in a reckless manner, and all last week, when we were
striving to wear our best chiffons for various frivols, he
just poured himself upon the battered and sodden land-
scape. On Thursday he was specialty pugnacious, and
the new electric cars had swimming matches up and
down King William-street. There was a chrysanthemum
show in the Town Hall ; and their Exes., who energeti-
cally go to everything on earth regardless of weaiher,
plunged their motor through the raging elements to the
scene of vegetation. Mrs. Chief Justice Way and sundry
presidents and things were there to assist them in the
arduous proceeding, and they took one daughter and
two aides along. There were no decorated dinner tables
this year, and the Cave ar.d Lewis trophy was snatched
by a Victorian. Afier which, we’re not going to play.
Victorians will be disqualified next year.
Gawler has had its hair in curl papers for a month or
more, but last week it took it out and burst forth in all
its splendor for the raising of the top stone of St. George’s
Anglican Church tower. There was fierce excitement.
The keystone of the tower arch was put in position 48
long years ago, away in the dusty back-tracks of 1861,
and ever since the church has been saving up its pennies
to finish the job. The thing was done with Masonic
honors, and Grand-Master Chief-Justice Lieutenant-
Governor Way performed the feat. And this is what
happened (please attend very carefully, or you might miss
some): The Grand Master delivered an address. The Grand
Chaplain offered prayer. The Grand Superintendent of
Works adjusted the stone.. The Deputy Grand Master
reported that it was square. The Senior. Grand Warden
said it was level. The Junior Grand Warden alleged it
was plumb. And the Grand Master opined-that it was
well and truly laid—same as if, it had been an egg. After
that, the Grand Bishop gave a dedication prayer ; and
the grand flag was hoisted by the Grand Trustee, and the
grand congregation went into the church. The tower is
a goodly pile, anyway. It is battlemented, is 80ft. high,
and is 26ft. square at the base and 22ft. square at the top.
Furthermore, it is made of Barossa freestone and slate.
The Cherniavski youngsters were persuaded to give
two extra concerts here—five in as many days—and if
they weren’t a-weary at the end of that time it’s a marvel.
The Bosanquet family went en manse to hear them, and
once or twice sent Mr. BJillie Hamilton behind with com-
pliments and requests for more. Tuesday night was the
boys’ 150th performance in Australia, and there were
souvenir photos and other excitements in celebration.
Now the three with their buckled shoon and their velvet
suits have gone westward.
The Lyric Club opened its doors with a crash on Wednes-
day eve, and showed its 50 odd new members to the
multitude. The word odd, I should explain, refers to the
number, not the members. There was very nearly a
panic and a dash for the street when Secretary Alec.
Morison announced that the Club had lost some 50
members last year through deaths, etc. But just as the
audience was fleeing from the tainted spot, he hastened
to explain that there had really been very few deaths,
and that most of the losses were owing to the etc. The
programme was contributed by Nora Kvffin Thomas,
who fiddled on a heavenly fiddle : pianist George Pearce,
and several melodious bards ; and the audience was large.
The Mavoress, Mrs. Mayfield, gave tea to nine miles
seven furlongs of women and a man or two the same
afternoon. It was a pleasant informal sort of reception
in the council chamber of the Town Hall. There were
bowls of gorgeous vegetation lurking about the room at
unsuspected intervals, and there were sundry pretty girl-
chums of Miss Mayfield’s also lurking about to see that
nobody went unfed and tealess. The Mayfields have de-
serted their Glenelg place and have come to dwell in
North Adelaide till the season ceases from raging.
Lorna, the second pretty Deelev daughter, has become
the promised bride of Dr. Dean Dawson, a young man
who mends the shattered frames of Lnura and the neigh-
borhood. The maiden is a nurse at North Adelaide pri-
vate hospital, so should be of material assistance to her
Benedict, in holding the chloroform bottle, and such-like
good works.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“ Yulcan ” : The heaviest thud of the fall-
ing' Dreadnought fund occurred at Sydney Agri-
cultural Show. A huge, flaring sign was run up
in a prominent position, and sundry persons
strenuousl y pushed rattling boxes under the packed
noses of visitors for days, but, though that crowd
was 250,000 strong, and representative of every
Class of the whole State, the munificent result was
—hold your breath !— ONE pound ! And people
like Joe Cook still go on saying that the country
is stirred to the marrow and raving mad to give a
Dreadnought to the Cold Land.
The value of that arbitration system
which Toni Mann, whose occupation it threatens,
wants to do away with, was shown in some pro-
ceedings taken on April 28 in the N.S.W. Indus-
trial Court against a builder named Douzans, who
is erecting the huge structure for Mark Foy in
Liverpool-street, Sydney. Douzans was con-
victed on three charges of sweating—by employ-
ing skilled workmen at less than the minimum
allowed. Judge Heydon spoke' with refreshing
zeal to Douzans. and after hanging a sentence of
gaol without the option over the defendant’s
astonished head, fined him £7l and £2l costs.
But for the arbitration award the only remedy the
trades unions would have had would have been
the strike. And probably they would have come
out losers, and Douzans would have gone on his
cheap-labor way rejoicing.
A dark suspicion is growing up that what
really happened to Nicholas Willis was that some-
body crept up behind him in the dark, and hit
him on the head with the “ Life of Crick.” Poli-
ticians are having a bad time just now. There is
an election on in Newfoundland, and some strenu-
ous constituents have seized ex-Premier Bond and
thrown him into the sea.


m
%
, rar
M/84Z
i p
4!
A
/
'V j
"w fe
M'/m5
m
m
M/'S44
846
Wi
f M .
~, J- M/-847
**
*¥*
M>/-850
848
-Sr
M/-849
'{jam
mm
This is a Specimen Page from our Autumn and "Winter Catalogue.
Copy sent post free to any address on application.
GuiftCa Millinery
at BUCKLEY’S
MI. 841—Hat, in Mole-colored Velvet and Silk, trimmed with Green
and Autumn Roses and Foliage, with Tie Bow of Green
Ribbons, in any color, 21/-
MT. 842—Hat, with slightly Mushroom Brim, trimmed Wings and
Ribbons, in Black or any color, 21/-
MI. 843—Amethyst-colored Hat, in Straw, or Velvet and Silk, with
clusters of Violets and Wing, or in any other colors with
Autumn Leaves, 21/-
MI. 844 Toque, in cloth of Wine shade, with Silk trimming and
shaded Wings in Black Velvet, or any other color, 21/-
MI. 845—Large Hat, in Brown Glace Silk, Crown surmounted with
shades of deep Red or Pink equally smart in Black, or any
color, 21/- ; interlining of Velvet (an extra cost of 4/6)
makes this model very becoming.
MI. 840—Hat, in Navy Blue or Brown Felt with Velvet or Silk
trimming, Wings at side, 21/-
MI. 847 —Silk Hat, in Navy, Green, Amethyst, Black, Paon, Brown,
Sage, trimmed with newest shades in Autumn Roses, 21/-
MT. 848—Hat in Brown Felt, trimmed with soft Silk or Ribbons with
Wings, 21/-
MT. 840 —Smart Tweed Caps in stock, 3/6, as illustration, for Motor-
ing or Coifing ; in Navy Serge or Tweed, made to order at
a few days’ notice in White, Black or any color, 12/6, 15/6
MI. 850—A Little Hat, for Winter, in all the latest colors, with
Velvet and Wings, 21/-
BUCKLEY 8 NUNN
LIMITED,
300-310 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
STEWART DAWSON f CO.,
(AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
Strand Corner, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Any of these Good Watches will be sent Free and Safe by Registered Post on receipt of Cash with Order.
The “Princess” Watch, 18ct. Gold
Hunting Cases, £5 10s. Open Face
style, £4 10s.
The Waltham Lever Watch, 10ct.,
£5; liar., £6 ; 18ct., £7.
Special Values these.
The “ Nonpareil ” Cut Hunter, 18ct.
Gold Cases and Gold Dial, £8 10s.
II /=*
; • H mTH
S'
tX-w
The “ Nonpareil,” Gold Dial and
ISot. Gold Case, £6 10s.
Full Hunters, £7 10s.
Special Adjusted ISct. Waltham
Lever, £2l.
The 14ct. Gold-filled Elgin Lever,
worth half-a-dozen cheap Gold
The Waltham Lever, lOct. Gold Hunting
Cases, £8 10s. ; l4ct. Gold, £lO ius.
The Waltham Cut Hunting- Lever,
18ct. Gold Cases, £l3 iOs.
The Waltham Hunting Lever, 18ct.
Gold Cases, £l4 10s.
‘ Nicole Nielsen ” English Lever, 18et.
Gold Cases, Engraved or Plain, £35.


Reduction of Stock SALE
PRIOR TO REMOVAL TO
284- George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Walter Bradley & Co.
are now disposing of their
Magnificent Stock Furniture,
Well-Made Upholstered Goods,
Water Colors, Bronzes, China,
Statuary and Art Treasur&e.
BARGAIN PRICES TO CLEAR.
CAREFULLY PACXE3 FOR COUNTRY.
We strive for gold and lose otir health,
In anxious seeking after wealth ;
Yet health more precious is tlian gold,
A stalwart frame‘.than wealth fintold.
We suffered from a coup'll at night,
Which sore disturbed our slumbers light;
lint, now our sleep is deep and sure,
Secured by Woods' Great I’epperm.nt Cure.
NEURALGIA FOR
TWO TEARS
Acute Suffering Before the
Right Cure was Tried.
This Woman Found that the Right
to Cure
cure the Cause of the Trouble.
There are very few cases of neuralgia that are
not caused by a weak run down condition. About
the first thing the doctor notices in neuralgic
patients is the anaemic appearance. When there
is too little blood the nerves lose their tone.
That is the commencement of nervous troubles m
bloodless people. Neuralgia—a sharp shooting
pain in the facial nerves—is one disorder. Drugs
to ease the pain are like fuel to the fire. The
next attack requires bigger doses, and so on until
a drug habit is formed. Cure the original cause
—the weak watery blood, and the nerves will be
all right. Nature’s way is always to remove the
cause. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure in Nature’s
way because they make new blood. That’s why
they have cured so many casesof neuralgia. They
cured Mrs. Georgina McGuckin, of 4 Cowle Street,
Perth, who states :
“When I first got neuralgia it came on gradu-
ally, and I thought it was toothache, but when
the pains came in my head also, I knew it was
neuralgia. Fits of pain attacked me and I would
collapse, and nothing seemed to relieve me.
Some days it was so bad that I had to lie down.
The pain was often so bad that I had to get some-
one to hold my head. The pressure relieved the
pain, but as soon as they took their hands away,
I had to cry out again. Day and night for weeks
I was nearly driven mad. My appetite fell off
and I grew thin and weak and was very miserable
altogether. I dreaded a noise of any sort, for it
always set the neuralgia going. Life became
hardly worth living. For two years I suffered
like this, hardly knowing a day’s peace. Then
my sister, Mrs. McDonald, told me to try Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People. She had
given them to her little boy who was run down,
and she thought that they would do me good, and
she actually brought me the first box, she had so
much faith in them. When I had finished that
box I felt so much improved that I got another.
That and another put new life into me. The
pains eased up and went away, my appetite
returned and I felt better in every way. That
was over six years.ago, and I have not had the
slightest return of neuralgia since.”
While so promptly effective these pills contain
no harmful stimulants or opiates. They are per-
fectly safe and create no drug habit. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by chemists and
storekeepers, or sent by mail, post paid on
receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
8
?X*v
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Mismiourke. SYDsmEV.
POLITICAL
POINTS
NO INDUCEMENT.
Mr. Watson regarded immigration as the first line of
defence, but he attached to immigration an unjust con-
dition of land confiscation, which would cause Australia
to be far from attractive to honest and industrious would-
be settlers.—S. A. Register.
Landlord (to honest and industrious would-be
settler): "If I gave you a steady job the
Socialist Government might take all mu land
away , and then you’d be out of work.’’
Intending Immigrant : “ Then, by goom, Oi’ll
stay ’ome, bquoire/”
Thus Archdeacon Peacock, to the Warr-
nambool (Vic.) branch of St. George’s Society :
When in England he had had a long conversation with
Bishop Thornton, who told him that a few years ago he
would have regarded tariff reform as impossible, but
now he saw it coming, and realised its necessity. The
editor of a newspaper at Inverness (Scotland) had told
him that although his paper was Freetrade, he was con-
vinced that the only things to save Britain were tariff
reform and preferential trade with other parts of the
Empire. The head of a great paper manufacturing firm,
established 130 years, had told him the same thing, and
had said that unless his firm could find an outside
market it would go under.
Sydney Telegraph had recently a wild
screech about the scarcity of water in Sydney.
After all, it is a question that is easily solved.
Shift the Australian capital site back to Dalgety,
where there will be unlimited water for it, no
matter how big the city may grow, and bring the
outflow of the Cotter to Sydney. Then that city
will indeed be blessed. Scarcity will disappear,
gardens will thrive, and the weary denizens of
dust-cursed Waterloo and Newtown will have
rest at last, and spend their evenings in fern
houses, which they cannot have at present because
water is too scarce.
IT DAZZLES THE WORLD.
No discovery in medicine has ever created one quarter
of the interest that has been caused by Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It has brought
relief in the most hopeless cases, when all else has failed.
For sale everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The British House of Commons has re-
jected the “Right to Work” Bill by a large
majority. It seems oplv what might be expected.
Every man has the right to have steady work at fair
wages, but He can’t have it if it isn’t there, and so
long as the ports are open to the goods of every
cheap labor country on earth, and any in-
dustry can be paralysed at short notice by
the dumping process, the work isn’t there. Also
the Labor party is partly responsible for it not
being there. Britain now thinks of trying its
hand at Wages Boards on the Victorian model as
a remedy for sweating. But so long as the ports
are open and it is necessary to undersell every
competitor there is almost sure to be sweating.
Under Freetrade fair wage is only another name
for no wage at all.
Victorian Lands Minister McKenzie, who
was sent to Maoriland to gather information for
the guidance of the Murray Cabinet, has returned
with abundant evidence of his researches. He
brings indisputable proof of the existence in the
Dominion of ordinary, graduated, and absentee
land-taxes. After much prodding in out-of-way
places, he is certain that the Maoriland Arbitra-
tion Court and compulsory purchase system are
not extinct. He has even discovered that there
are settlers and that there is a rainfall. In fact,
he has discovered everything that everybody knew
before.
N.S.W. State Premier Wade’s latest bit of
mulishness against B. R. Wise is alarming his legal
supporters horribly ; and they are considering if
Chawles Gregory isn’t too dangerous a commodity
to have about the premises. Boiled down, his ex-
planation of his treatment of Wise amounts to a
declaration that the spoils are for the political
victor. Now, if only Government supporters are
to have Government work, when the Labor party
arrives the practice will spell ruin for a lot of
Wade’s most ardent admirers. Morris Hughes,
Holman and a few others will make immense
fortunes ; but the great bulk of the fraternity will
be as dead broke as the punters at the last A. J.C.
meeting.
S. M. Herald (27/4/’O9) was much shocked
at the idea of Prime Minister Fisher getting a
dissolution if his Government went under by
reason of the Dreadnought business, because :
• • • If the Governor-General were to grant a dissolu
tion, it would amount to a challenge of the popular man-
date as expressed through Parliament.
Well, under our clumsy Party Government
system, doesn’t it always “amount to a challenge
of the popular mandate,” etc., when a Ministry
appeals to the country from an adverse vote of
Parliament ? If the Herald really believes that
this is the wrong way of doing things why doesn’t
it advocate the Elective Ministry system for a
while, and see if that would prove more satisfac-
tory ?
Victoria isn’t the only State where the big
landlord beats the public for most of the
land-tax that he ought to pay. In S. Aus.
a trustee co. owns 18 acres of land in a
suburb. Last year the council assessed the
block at £OO an acre, and the indignation of
that trustee co. was something tremendous
—so tremendous that it appealed against
the assessment, and shed several pints of
crocodile’s tears over the grasping tactics of
the council. A few weeks afterwards, when
the assessment had been reduced, somebody
vaccinated the council with an idea to secure
the block for a recreation reserve, and the
council opened up negotiations. Then the
co. promptly wiped away its crocodile tears
and demanded £125 an acre, and swore
by all the red-tape and sealing-wax in the
office that it was cutting the price in order
to get rid of the property in a lump. Of
course the deal is off ; but next year when
the assessor wanders round that way he will
have an easy job in valuing that particular
scrap of the suburb.
Sydney City Council has voted a sum not
exceeding £2l for the preparation of an address
of welcome to new State Governor Chelmsford.
It will probably be badly written ; it will cer-
tainly be badly read ; it will bore Chelmsford to
listen to it—addresses assuring a Governor of the
unswerving fealty of Alderman Jobson pall after
the fiftieth one has come to hand—and the end of
it will be the waste-paper basket. For these and
a number of other reasons a Supreme Court in-
junction should be applied for to prevent the
people’s money being misappropriated to pay to
clumsy attempts to assure a mere State Governor
re the unswerving fealty of a mere muncipal
Jobson.
The Victorian Government Statist’s live-
stock figures for the year ending March,
iys9, are not cheerful reading. They
shdw a decrease, for the 12 months, iii
every animal, with the comparatively un-
important exception of the horse. Dairy
cows are down 100,113—a truly awful
drop —and other cattle have fallen by
108,532. while sheep show a drop of over
1,000,000, and pigs 31,644. Part of the
dairy cattle loss is due to a bad season ;
but for the bulk of these decreases there
is simply no explanation, except the
accumulation of big estates and the bad
husbandry which always goes with big
estates. The drop in pigs equals over
30 per cent., and is the biggest mystery
of the lot. The pig is such an emin-
ently payable animal that his steady
decrease amounts to a horrible reflection
on the big landlord. It has been going
on for three or four years now. The
falling off in sheep is also notable. In
Maoriland, the cutting up of the big
sheep stations led actually to an increase
in the number of sheep kept. There is
something rotten in Victorian farming, and Pre-
mier Murray is hereby urged to wake up and
make a note of the fact.
“Nulla”: “Jingoree”—derived from
the same root as “corroboree”—would be a
good word to express the present Dreadnought
row. You have a “jingoree” at the beginning of
the proceedings, and, if your side wins, you have
a maffick at the end. If your side loses you have
a Jimmy Woodser instead of a maffick.
A cup of “Bournville” Cocoa is quite as sus-
taining as many of the dishes that are set before
you when travelling. It is also, of course, more
readily digested and more easily consumed—
points of importance when time "is limited. If
you could only see the beautiful Garden Village
where “Bournville” Cocoa is made you would
appreciate the fact that it must be the best.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “The Commonwealth
Crisis, by C. 11. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a r ‘‘ peaceful ’ Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
APROPOS RECENT DOINGS IN CHICAGO.
Only one wheat corner ever succeeded, being that conducted by Joseph in Egypt.
(From, a trail painting in a tomb at Thebes.)
Pitiless shaft directed by Sydney Sunday
Times (25/4/ 09) at Admirals Poore, Bosanquet
and other expert seamen who approve the scheme
of an Australian navy : : —
Those who talk so glibly about “ defending the coasts ”
of Australia have not even troubled to ascertain the
mileage.
Plainly, what the British Admirals in these waters
need is that someone with a profound knowledge
of Australia’s coast line (the editor of the Sunday
Times, for example) should take them round and
make them wise to things generally. There is no
one more helpful to a distressed British Admiral,
in a state of crass ignorance regarding the char-
acter and extent of the coasts which his vessels
have to patrol, than the editor of a Sydney Sunday
paper.
Private Enterprise is the two ends and
the bight of an ass. It has all along been gassing
about the necessity of developing the primary
industries, yet Elwood Mead, Victoria’s irrigation
expert, lately discovered the amazing fact that
that State regularly imports all its lucerne seed —
about 100 tons, worth £l7,ooo—although there is
nothing on earth to prevent the article being
raised on the premises. Seeing that irrigated
lucerne will yield two crops of hay and then turn
out enough seed to realise £lB per acre every year,
Mead seems justified in saying that the farmers
are living on a gold mine without knowing it.
An almost forgotten person named Bent
was resurrected into public memory in Victoria
the other day. A sub-committee of the Cabinet
reported, after exhaustive inquiry, that £.35,000
worth of land purchased by this Memory for the
purpose of establishing “improved small hold-
ings” was quite useless for the purpose. The
improved small holding was not intended to main-
tain a man and his family in affluence, but to
provide a refuge when the house-father was out of
other employment; and to fulfil this condition it
was necessary that such land should be near some
centre of population. The land the Bent gang
had purchased was anything but near a centre of
population. In fact it was nearer nowhere than
anywhere else.
It was a rather pathetic and wholly mis-
placed circumstance that just while the S. M.
Herald was in the thick of its Dreadnought col-
lection its own London correspondent, Henry
Lucy, should write to say that the whole naval
scare was a party move and a political hoax.
Said Lucy in the Herald of last Saturday :
In spite of cunningly concocted, sedulously stirred
clamor of assumed fright, everyone knows that the naval
position of Great Britain at the present moment is rela-
tively stronger than it has been since the days of
Trafalgar...
In engineering the scare about the Navy, Mr. Balfour
has suffered a succession of inconveniences.. . The in-
terval, whilst chilling to the ardor of the assault, has been
adroitly used by the Premier to set forth the case of the
Government, buttressed by the citation of a mass of par-
ticulars demonstrating the impregnable position of the
Navy.. .
These are dreadful things to say at a time when the
Herald’s Dreadnought fund is tottering on a
rather shaky off hind leg, and wants all the sup-
port it can get.
DIPLOMATIC WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
A proud nation like Britain cannot stoop to ask favors
from colonial Governments. —Melbourne Age.
ULTRA JINGO PRESS (excitedly): “See that?
Two wags of his tail to the right and one
flick round! That means , ‘ Send us a
Dreadnought, quick!’”
Those quaint bodies, the Federated Pro-
gress Associations of Victoria, held a conference
at Daylesford the other day. There was the
same futile cackling about matters that didn’t
concern them ; the same sawn-off crowing about
things they didn’t understand; but at least they
reached one solid conclusion. They “ recognised
the splendid possibilities of advertising the Com-
monwealth through the medium of tissue paper
wrapped round fruit exported to London.”
After that feat the brain-fagged delegates ad-
journed for a year.
Thus the S. M. Herald (27/4/’O9) con-
cerning the Peel River (N.S. W.) resumptions :
Resumption, as provided for under the Closer Settle-
ment Act, conserves the rights of the owners sufficiently
well, as we have seen in the Peel River instance. But-by
itself it does not secure results which can be accounted
adequate from the standpoint of the State. If the State
is to spend £500,000 of money—for the cost will be quite
that, probably, when the legal, administrative, and other
expenses are' added to the actual purchase sum—for
every 100,000 acres it resumes there is room to build up an
enormous debt, and yet not be very much farther
forward as a consequence of it. While we are glad to
think that this fine area of land on the Peel River will soon
be available to settlers, we cannot help thinkimr that re-
sumption alone will not solve the settlement problem.
And later (29/4/’O9) the Herald pursued the sub-
ject some more: —
The problem is among the most difficult we have to
solve, for, as we know, even a graduated land-tax does
not. do all it promises, though admittedly it does a great
deal.
It really looks as if we may yet see the Herald
fighting in the ranks of the big Australian party
for a progressive land-tax.
GETTING READY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Whisker to whisker in days of old the peoples strove for
power ;
Billhook, and axe, and clashing blade, and the falling
arrow shower,
War’s preparations were simple then, and they never
could take them long,
For they used to fight with any old thing that was fairly
heavy and strong.
A mace with a crown of spikes would do for a holy
crusading knight,
And a meat-axe fixed on a haft of steel was the man-at-
arms’ delight,
Road metal served in the Trojan war, and the armies of
Israel saw
In the hands of a realty capable man the force of a
donkey’s jaw.
Marathon’s field was possible once, and a lot of similar
scraps,
And Australia a thousand years ago m ght have held her
own—perhaps—
For it mattered little how dull the ears to the sounds of
approaching fate
When the drunkest king could get ready to fight as the
foeman smote the gate.
But the game is altered, and played by rules of a totally
different sort,
And it takes some years to construct a ship, or build and
equip a fort,
And the bravest heart and the strongest arm will fail in
the hour of need,
When the black death smokes at the garden gate of the
people who took no heed.
Woe to the land that is still at play when the shells begin
to fly,
Woe to the nation unfenced and bare when the wrath-
cloud dims the sky ;
Or ever her hammers have forged a gun, or her ship-
wrights have laid a keel,
Her jiride is bowed in the £ory dust and under the
foeman’s heel.
MAORILAND.
M.W.


Three Years
Thunderbolt
SELLING LIKE RIPE CHERRIES.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
&
Printed, Written, and Illustrated in Australia.
Published at a cheap rate to enable the
multitude to buy them.
eua
“ Steele Rudd ’’—The Poor Parson
Sandy’s Selection
For Life
Dad in Politics
From Selection to City
Back at Our Selection
De Boos (Chas.) — Settler and Savage
Bloxham (H. K.)—' On the Fringe of the Never=Never
Green (James) — The Selector
Dyson (Edward)— ln the Roaring Fifties...
~ The Missing Link
Websdale (C. D.)— Seafarers
Pratt (A.) — Three Years with Thunderbolt
Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. nd.
Cloth, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; post free, 3s. lid.
Cloth, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, 2s.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, is. 3d.
post free, 2s. Sd.
post free, 2s. sd.
post free, is. 3d.
Cloth, is. 6d. ; post free, is. I id.
Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Paper, is. ; post free, is, 3d.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Cloth, is.
Cloth, 2s.
Paper, is.
Paper, is.
Cloth, 2s. :
Cloth, 2S.
Paper, is.
Barry (J. A.)— Steve Brown’s Bunyip ...
~ Luck of the Native Born
Spencer (T. E.) — How McDougall Topped the Score
~ The Spring Cleaning
~ The Surprising Adventures of Mrs. Bridget McSweeney—
Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
~ Budgeree Ballads ... Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Porter (L. B.) — Riverfall ... Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
“ The Bulletin ” Reciter —(complete) ... ... ... Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
White (Charles) — John Vane, Bushranger ... ... Paper, IS.; post free, is. 3d.
Harbor Guide —with Colored Maps ... ... ... Paper, 6d. ; post free, 9d.
Guide to Sydney— with Colored Maps ... ... ... Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Cameron (J.) — The Spell of the Bush ... ... ... Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Brasch (A.)— The Adventures of Mr. Barnes ... ... Paper, is. ; post free, is. 3d.
Birtles (Francis) —Lonely Lands—Across Australia on a Bicycle
Paper, 3s. 6d. ; postage, 3s. I id.
h
And other equally good books to follow
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
AND ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
i* 78? 1/
Surprising
■Adventures
_ •/
||Bi| Mm Brief pet
Sni'ftn:
s
[I
■Start the New Year Well
Make Up Your Mind to Begin NOW to
Improve Yourself —TO EARN MORE.
We can train you, so as to enable you to greatly improve
vour position, if you desire to do so.
Stott’s Correspondence Cfe
Can Train You —Bj^osC
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU ? Our instruction
papers go right to vour home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
bv taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
auditing
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME no matter where you li.e, and is just
what you require to enable you to EAKiN IVlUrtJi; MUriJii.
EX A MINA T/ONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the; best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. Ve can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams. :
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending TC^INQtJtRE 5 .
Xh'» T^wgSN^^g^r" 1 -
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE;
NORWICH CHAMBERS, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Nett.
ACKLE
n __
I J^^:,t > fr rr ini
I ,v j£ssjg^ Bream
f J.OCOTT.364BourkeSt. MELBOURNE
ISHING
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, a,sk him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
A POLICY FOK THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price. 6d. The Bulletin Office.
A MOUSTACHE WOULD IMPROVE YOU
fill out your features and give character to your face.
We guarantee you a handsome moustache if you have the
least sign of down on your lip.
A nil I ADINP is a genuine Moustache-producer
v''*l 1 L,l\ 11 I—< and strengthener.
A little rubbed on each night is all that is required.
Sent in to the n iioHd dr "' 10/6 POST FREE.
CRAI6 & AITKEN, 654 <Seorge St.,Sydi>€y
Established 25 Years.
-g/ier
TERMS ARRANGED.
Do you want a Good Business in Melbourne,
Suburbs or Country from £2O to £5OOO ?
We arrange Terms to suit you.
Country Storekeepers and Shopkeepers should send
us particulars when wanting to sell. Numerous
clients always on the look out for good businesses.
WRIGHT & SWIFT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
“THE AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL,”
established 44 years. Proprietors invite narrative
matter, Australasian of character and incident.
Author’s price to be stated. A. H. Massina and
Co., Swanston Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
The Last Word in Cocoa
The product of ceaseless care & ideal cond
'K
V
*
4* i
7A* »
ik.
kr, 1!B1 i ;
ExDort Deot Boumville
The Home of “Bournville " Cocoa. Imagine
for one moment a beautiful Garden Village
situated in England with green fields, fragrant
flowers, and a model factory, as clean as a new
pin, with airy, sunlit workrooms, and a throng of
healthy, happy workers. Made under such ideal
conditions, it is not strange
that the Old Country should
unanimously vote “ Bournville ” Cocoa
the purest and best of liquid
foods.
“xT
MenSCricket Grounds, BournviiiQ.
•YMUHUTB
OURNYILLE
THE LAST WORD IDT
Made by Cadbury. BournviJle, England.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies"hair and fo- Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
. Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. .Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT,
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere, Price 2/-, Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
& LA6€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLME". & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE fififl COCLCARDIE.
Brewery And Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Now that he has parted company with him,
manager Fitzpatrick is bearing out what was said in these
columns about Massa Johnson’s hitting power. Writer
was firmly convinced that had Johnson been the batter-
ing ram he appeared to be, Burns would have been killed
outright by .at least half a dozen of the 17 right-hand
blows Johnson landed on his jaw during the first three
rounds. Said Fitzpatrick: “One thing is sure. I never
told Johnson he could beat Jeffries. And he can’t.
Johnson simply can’t punch. He hammered a hundred
times at Burns, and it had mighty little effect.”
Johnson has announced that he will not meet
black brother Langford in London. But it is hard to see
how he can avoid standing up to Langford sooner or
later. That his brother black will challenge him to
defend his championship goes without saying, and, if he
can find the money for the side wager, Johnson simply
must fight him—unless he draws the color line. John-
son’s excuse for breaking his agreement with
Langford is that the purse put up by the National
Sporting Club, London, is not big enough for him
as champion of the world. Possibly it isn’t in proper
keeping with Johnson’s present rank and odor; but an
agreement is at least morally binding on even a champion
of the world. As said before, Johnson cannot side-step
Langford very long, and as Langford is a much quieter-
living gentleman than Johnson, the longer the scrap is
postponed the worse for the coon champion. In the
meantime there is another comet in the sky. Yorkshire
has seen the rising of a new star, and lan Hague has just
started on the road that leads to the pinnacle from which
he can challenge Johnson. “Woolwich Infant” Ben
Taylor was obliterated in short order, and then Gunner
Moir was outed at the very beginning of the first round.
Moir may not be a Johnson, but the man who can out him
in this fashion (unless it was a fluke, and of that no men-
tion is made) is dangerous. Already people are wonder-
ing if Yorkshire has produced a world-beater.
If Johnson thought he was badly treated in
Australia he must have been absolutely broken-hearted
when he got to the States. Even in British Columbia he
was given the cold shoulder ; and as soon as he set foot
in Victoria every hotelkeeper seized his book and filled it
up with bogus boarders, so that when Johnson and his
wife arrived the last room had just been taken. In fact,
he had a bigger fight to get shelter in Victoria than he
had to beat Burns in Sydney'. The halm to his soul were
the flambo.yant accounts of the way they were going to
welcome him home in Galveston, away down in Texas.
The negroes were said to be organising a welcome that
would have done Julius Caesar proud—till they’ read of a
white wife. Then a cloud came o’er the collective nigger
brow. Ham liked not this idea of a white wife. But the
dislike of the blacks to a white wife was sweet welcome
compared to the fury of the whites at the idea of a black
husband. And then the whites started to prepare a re-
ception. The price of feathers suddenly soared up.
Cauldrons were bought in haste, and the tar was kept
hot night and day, just in case Johnson came surrep-
titiously and faded away as quickly. Johnson hastily
announced that he would not visit Texas; but tried
to create a diversion by alleging that his wife
was three-parts negress. But the great outstanding
fact that she was suspected of having a white skin made
any idea of visiting Texas, unless he went there with
an army corps, quite impossible.
« * ¥ «
The Mclntosh is cutting a fearful and wonder-
ful dash in the States, and monopolising quite a lar.e
space in the columns of the papers that deal with spurt
in that country. He saw Johnson, and discovered that
the great scientist who makes his living by bruising the
countenance of his brother man is quite prepared to
attempt the putting of a head on Jeffries if a decent price
is offered for the job. Then he set to work to charm the
bulky Jeffries—who, by the way, is showing bad symp-
toms of swelled head. Wearing, above his other gar-
ments, his best Australian smile and a fur-lined overcoat,
the Mclntosh butted into Jeffries’ dressing-room. The
giant eyed him coldly, and with a grunt pointed to a
case, on which the Mclntosh set him down. “Come to
see you about fighting Johnson, Mr. Jeffries. I’m Mcln-
tosh, Of Sydney.” Jeffries grunted acknowledgment or
recognition of the fact, and Mac chewed a straw for a
moment and then went on. “I’ve seen some tall figures
mentioned in regard to this meeting, but I think most or
them have been made for newspaper purposes rather than
with a view to bringing you together. However, I’ll tell you
what I’m prepared to do, and you can think it over and
let me know your decision when it is convenient. I’ll
put up $50,000, to be divided as you agree upon between
yourselves.” “.Fifty thousand devils,” snorted Jeffries in
disgust. “No, dollars, dollars, Mr. Jeffries.” “Fifty
thousand- is that all ?” said Jeffries in an injured tone.
“Why some people up Alaska way have offered me
$200,000. Did you know that?” 2 I’ve heard it,” said
the Mclntosh, “ and if you think they can make good the
money, close with them. I’m not here to bluff or to beat
down. I figure it out that I can offer $50,000, and have
something left over for myself when the accounts are
settled. I can’t say more, as it might be beyond me to
make up if things went wrong. I won’t say less, because
I think the scrap is worth it. But that’s my figure. You
chew it over and let me know.” Then Mac went out and
bought a £3OOO motor car and, sitting in it, had his
photograph taken with a young millionaire beside him.
* * * *
Artie Cripps, Sydneyside Saxon, butted into ;
Ed. Williams, the long, limber Victorian middleweight,
at Bert Jenkins’s Cyclorama (Melbourne) the other Mon:
day night, and the result was a hard night’s labor for |
both of them. These men met for the sixth, and pro-
bably last, time, and as a result Williams is again Com-
monwealth champion in his class, with no one looming-
over the ring’s horizon who is likely to snatch the glory'
from him. The fight was clever throughout, and although
punishment was frequent and free, neither man displayed
unpleasant effects. Williams has coopered his stomach
with wads of muscle since the time when Cripps used
to beat him by smiting heavily and continuously at his
grocery and provision compartment, and the smiting on
this occasion did not prevent Edward from coming with
a great gallop at the finish, and putting both hands all
over Artie.
* * ¥ ¥
Ex-amateur middle-weight champion of Aus-
tralia. Dave Smith, and Tommy Burns’ sparring partner,
Fat O’Keeffe, put up a very willing 20 rounds’ disturb-
ance, the other night, at the Brisbane Stadium—every
place where two people meet to hit one another hard anil
often is called a Stadium now. Although Smith was
fightingfor the first’time under * ’•.> old-with-one-hand-
and-hit-with-the-other rule, impo .eel into this country
by Mr. Noah Brusso Burns, he soon had O’Keeffe’s
measure, and at the end of the commotion, had got
Patrick’s face in such a state of excitement that the
referee hadn’t to think hard to tell him that he was top
dog, or something of the sort.
* * ¥ »
Jack Arnst has been distinguishing himself
again ; and has now put up a world record by' riding from
Christchurch to Timaru (Maoriland), a distance of 112
miles in 4hr. 50inin.—equal to an average speed of over 23
miles an hour. He rode Dunlops, and was paced by a motor
cycle; and beat Mehrtens’ previous best (done in the
opposite direction) by lhr. 27min. 16sec. Of course it
must be remembered that Mehrtens’ record was put up in
competition, and without the benefit of pace. Arnst’s is
the fastest road ride accomplished in Australasia, or in
the world; and is a wonderful achievement. All the
same, writer does not think the practice of paced road
racing is a desirable innovation. But what a wonderful
family the Arnsts are—one brother, Jack, champion road
rider of the world; and the other, Dick, champion
sculler of the world, and also a mighty wheeler before the
Lord. They say there is a third brother, the baby of the
family, who is likely to eclipse both Jack and Dick, if
their opinions of him are only half correct.
* * " * *
“ Hermes ” : J. Arnst, winner of the Warrnam-
bool-Melbourne bike race in 1903, has just broken all pre-
vious records for tile Ohristchurch-Dunedin ride by cover-
ing the 247 miles in 12hrs. 22min. Starting from Christ-
church the road runs through country almost as level as
a billiard table, but after entering Otago the hills begin
to appear with more and more frequency the further the
rider gets south. Forty miles from Dunedin the bikist
encounters the Horse Range outside Palmerston—an
awful hill, with a worse descent on the southern side.
But it is within 16 miles of the southern city that the
real joy of the expedition develops. The complete happi-
ness commences at Merton, with a hill known among
local cyclists as “Kilhnug.” It might be mentioned
incidentally that one or two riders who were anything
but mugs have come to an untimely end on that
stretch of piled-up mullock which is slowly slipping
down into the sea. Rushing down a grade like
the slope of a Gothic gable, the rider strikes the little
township of VVaitati, and then he enters a Prohibition
district and commences a long seven miles steady
climb over roads that are too awful to be described
in a family newspaper. I used to ride from
Palmerston to Dunedin (40 miles) every other Saturday
night, and back again on the Sunday night, all to see my
best girl. On the last occasion I negotiated Killmug in
a blinding hailstorm, and reached VVaitati about 3 a.m.
Efforts to rouse a publican were rewarded with the
contents of a water-jug fired through the window ; but
even that was a blessing in disguise, as the water that
fell from the jug was warm compared to what poured
from the streaming heavens. On the long climb towards
Dunedin I lost my way, turned to the right too soon, and
dashing down a newly'-tnade road, sailed gracefully over
a sudden precipice about 20ft. into a creek. This was
the last straw. I roosted in a flax bush till daylight came
and revealed the machine under water. Fishing it out, I
rode back to Waitati, had a hot bath and breakfast.
Then I started for home by easy stages, and reached there
at eight next morning after passing the night at Wai-
kouiati. Next day but one I received a note from my
best girl, complaining that she was sure I didn’t love her
when I let a trifle like that keep me away after coming
so far. That was the extra straw after the last one.
Since then I have been content with a second-best girl.
Really, best girls are too exacting.
* * * *
In all human probability the Dunlop Warrnam-
bool-Melbourne road race will eventuate on October 2
this year. Owing to the pressure on road space (452
nominated last year, and 304 actually started), it is pro-
posed to limit the starters to 300 in the coming event.
The race too large to be properly handled.
E. J. McGee, a cyclist who gathered in a big
wheel race at Sydney recently, has a record of hard
graft. In 14 years McGee has taken part in 473 races—
the result being 125 wins, 49 seconds, 16 thirds, and 283
times unplaced.
* * * *
Union Rugby in Sydney on Saturday last was
strenuous ; and, incidentally, the subject of almost as
much betting as if it had been a race meeting. Glebe, in its
wild-cat match with Newtown at Sydney Cricket Ground
carried almost as much money as the favorite in the
Sydney Cup, and gave its backers a better run for their
money. All the same, this betting on matches ought to
be put down with a heavy hoof, or there will be scandals
before long. When the Glebe barracker began to wave
his coin round his head he offered odds in a lordly way ;
but the avidity with which his offers were taken produced
a sudden slump in the price, and the slump continued
till the starters, that is the players, went out at even
money. Newtown, with its premiership still fresh upon it,
naturally pawed the earth and neighed “ Ha ! ha ! ” But
Glebe, though nob so noisy, was equally eager, and
the 10,000 who looked on roared like all the bulls of Bashau
in their excitement. For right at the start, with a sud-
den charge, McKivatt led his merry men to the
Newtown line, and a wild-cat struggle commenced. The
Glebe men juggled the leather magnificently, but fast as
it was passed, the Newtowners tore theui down. One
Glebe man was actually over the line, but was hauled
back and the hall wrenched from him. Then with a howl
and a curse Newtown hurled the red-jerseyed crowd back
into neutral territory, and following up with a series of
short charges arrived at the Glebe line, where a forward
pass stopped them. Back and forward they swayed,
going down in heaps of struggling blue and red, each side
fighting for an opportunity to let the backs loose, till bv
sheer bullocking Newtown reached the Glebe line, and
out of the struggling mass a Newtown man crawled
across and scored. With Newtown leading by five to
nil. Glebe’s barrackers lost the power of speech. So
far the premiers had been on top. Almost im-
mediately the leather was set going, Newtown let
loose a series of well-sustained charges, which after
every check got closer to the goal line, and
finally swept over it. But the extra points were not
added. Then the pendulum swung back. Glebe’s back
machine got working, and with two sudden rushes scored
twice in rapid succession, but only managed to convert
once. When the almost-exhausted teams reeled off at
half-time the points were equal. The second spell
settled down to a trial of endurance. They bullocked
and wrestled, and raced up and down the field, appar-
ently perfectly balanced. Both sides strained every
nerve, but every effort was responded to, and the
result for a time was deadlock. At last Glebe’s
fullback suddenly potted a field goal and gave
his side a lead of four points; and on that field a
lead of four points seemed an impossible one. Time was
running out, and there were signs of exhaustion on both
sides. Glebe was out to win, and, having got a start,
resorted to monkey tricks to keep it. But Newtown was
full of sand, and played on with dogged resolution. It
was a sudden dribbling charge by Glebe that gave New-
town its opportunity. Farnsworth picked up from the
very toes of the dribblers, passed, and the Newtown hack
machine went through Glebe like a needle through calico.
But the kick on which the verdict of the day rested flew
wide, and Glebe won by 12 points to 11. 'Yet, on the
play, Newtown had the better part.
For the rest. Manly downed Western Suburbs
by nine to nil, and South Sydney did the same to Sydney
by three to nil. Balmain crushed North Sydney to the
tune of 16 to 11. University just managed to "beat St.
George by 14 to 13 ; and Eastern Suburbs, having the bye,
scored its competition points easily. The result is that
Glebe, South Sydney and Balmain are the first line with
four points each ; Manly, the weak team of last year, is
second line with three; Sydney, University, Eastern
and Western Suburbs are all in front of their better,
Newtown, with two points ; while the team that played
so well on Saturday has only one. St. George and North
Sydney are in the poultry line.
* • ■» *
The Soccer competition for the Rawson Cup in
and around Sydney on Saturday last supplied six rattling
games, the result of which was to give Pyrmont and
Rozelle first place with six points each. Sydney is run-
ning next with five, and Garden Island and Ultimo have
four each. With a team drawn largely from the reserves,
Pyrinont downed Balmain, after a great struggle, by two
to nil. Rozelle’s victory over Granville was much more
decisive, the goals being five to nil. Sydney crushed
Northern Suburbs by four to one, and the craftsmen of
Garden Island walloped Glebe by five to four. The sailors
of the Powerful could only draw with Western Suburbs
with a couple of goals. Ultimo beat Newtown by two to
nil.
The struggle between Pyrmont and Balmain
proved that the ancient club has not lost the cunning of
its foot. Balmain played a particularly strong team ;
but the strategy of Pyrmont in the final score proved
that the older club lias the tactics. Granville was cheap
meat to Rozelle, whose defence was impregnable and fine
; to see. Storey, the Rozelle goalkeeper, is a ’bailer on
whom there are no flies, neither does grass grow upon him.
Glebe’s disaster was a bolt from the blue. The first half
saw it leading by four to nil, and then apparently it took
to drink in the interval, or something. Anyhow, it was
very groggy in the second half, and the Garden Island
artificers trampled it under foot. It was over-eagerness
that made Northern Suburbs lose to Sydney. Its men
ran wild at the critical moment ; and Soccer is a game at
which baresark business leads todefeat. Ultimo’s wallop-
ing of Newtown was simply a case of the veterans down-
ing raw recruits. Newtown is a baby club, but a very
promising one.
The chief excitement in the Soccer circle
now is the visit of the YVestralians, who arrive in Sydney
to-day, May 6. The struggles will take place at Sydney
Cricket Ground on May 15 and 22, commencing at 3.15
p.m. Although there are 12 first-grade Soccer clubs
playing in and around Sydney every Saturday, there are
thousands who have never seen an exposition of this
prettiest-to-watch form of football. This is because the
lack of decent grounds compels the Soccer men to con-
duct their struggles in out of the way places. Practically,
the Eastern suburbs’residents have never a chance to see
a game of the classic form of football. These benighted
citizens will have their opportunity at Sydney Cricket
Ground, when the inter-State matches take place.
* * * »
It is whispered that something like a stampede
has set in among the Rugby Leaguers in Sydney ; and
that the Union is being overwhelmed with applications
for reinstatement. The Union started out to be lenient;
but the rush is said to be getting so great that the Union
players whose positions are endangered by the inclusion
of the returned rebels are getting restive. So probably
the Union will grow sterner week by week. There is no
blinking the fact that, so far, the League matches have
failed to attract the public; and the waning of public
interest and the exodus of members are ominous signs.
* * • *
As herein before observed, football is going to
boom in Victoria this winter, and the opening of the
season on Saturday gave every promise of good times,
both as to the play and the “gate.” Of the League
teams, Collirigwood, which is always slow at starting,
succumbed to Fitzroy by 61 points to 72, a result due
chiefly to slovenly passing and general casualness.
Like many next-door neighbors, these clubs waste no love
on each other, and the discussion was adorned by a
couple of cheerful scraps, one of which threatened to
engage the whole of the combatants. Essendon collided
with St. Kilda, and, after a hefty struggle, pulled
the game out of the conflagration m the last
quarter, by 54 points to 44. South went down to
Geelong per Tait’s special, arriving as usual half an hour
late, and, after friendly discourse, dragged the honors
out of the mud at the same stage as Essendon, by 53
points to 44. This seems to be the proper time to urge
Geelong - to get a move on. Melbourne encountered
Richmond, and avenged last season’s early defeat by
piling up 74 points to the other’s 63, the last quarter
again seeing the tables turned. Carlton —the mighty
Carlton —which went under only once last season,
which has three consecutive premierships to its
credit, and hoped to waltz through this tourney
undefeated, met ’Varsity, and, to the horror and
amazement of its barrackers, fell with a great bump be-
fore the upstart students. The figures were 47 to 32.
Certainly Carlton’s kicking was vile, but that of ’Varsity
was almost as bad. The fact is that the students were a
shade better trained, played as one man, and played to
avenge a game of which they were unfairly reft last
season. It is said that Secretary Worrnll’s language was
something awful ; not only was Carlton walloped by a
team of League novices in its second year, but the hopes
of rivalling Essendon’s long-ago feat of running the
season unbeaten were gone for a twelvemonth. And the
Lord knows where we’ll all be by then.
The Vic. Association’s scuffles were almost as
well patronised as the League’s. P’ran, supported by a
couple of ex-League stars and some promising juniors,
collided with last year’s premiers—’Scray—and bumped
them into the outer darkness where lie the things that
might have been. The premiers had practically the
whole of the argument up to half-time, when their tally
was 28 points to P’ran’s four; but thereafter the shop-
keeping suburb attended to the business in hand, and
steadily overhauled the others, finishing with 49 to 42.
It was a considerable feat, and entitles the performers to
the respect of all opponents. Brunswick joyously cabbed
over to Essendon, but the spare billets on the tramway have
apparently been given to extra competent ’bailers this year,
and the club that went down before Brunswick in last
season’s semi-final left the field with a comfortable vic-
tory to soothe its feelings—l3-goals 10 behinds- to Bruns-
wick’s 7 goals 9 behinds. North Melbourne was at home
to “ Ports” on its-tdelectable “ glue-pot,” and entertained
its visitors with a courteous though sloppy game, finally
despatching them to their homes with a one-point victory
to gloat over —60 to 59. The two-year-old team of Brighton
visited Williamstown and capsized it by 37 points to 27.
The blastiferous impudence of these youngsters in thus
drubbing seasoned veterans like ’Town was considered
most reprehensible and liable to lead to a bursting up of
the home or something. Brighton is evidently recovering
from the burden of the responsibility for Bent’s premier-
ship, and begins to wear a cheerful countenance and hold
its head up. The controversy between Preston and
Northcote gave the former 77 points' to the latter’s 51 ;
but these two clubs resemble Premier* Wade’s vaporings
about Yassberra, inasmuch as, except for the unpleasant-
ness they sometimes engender, they don’t count. A
cheerful episode perspired at Wesley College Ground,
where the Collegians, of the Junior Association, put up
an alleged record of 32 goals 33 behinds against Oak-
leigh’s three goals three behinds. Oakleigh would appear
to have been a trifle over-matched. Perhaps it under-
stands some other game.
* * * *
The Rugby League team (the Kangaroos)
returned from Britain by the White Star liner Suevic. Mr.
J. .1. Giltinan tripped home on .his lonesome in the
India. By taking the short cut through the Canal he
arrived in Sydney just in time to be landed comfortably in
an equity suit brought against him and Messrs. Trumpet
and Hoyle in connection with the financial affairs of the
League! The League proposes to make hay while the
sun shines by pitting the returned Kangaroos—or what
is:left of them—against the home-stayers in a couple of
matches. The League will require some money shortly;
as it was recently advertising for a paid secretary at a
salary of £250 per annum. And this Equity action
against the guarantors will require some financing.
* * * *
Queensland bowlers had hard luck Jon their
N.S.W. tour, and sadly missed the services of that
eminent trundler, Bouchard of Brisbane. The team was
a good one, but it would have been much stronger had
not business prevented many of the Queensland cracks
leaving home. Of course, a visiting team is always at a
disadvantage ; there is a lot in knowing your grass, just
as in billiards an intimate acquaintance with the table
counts for much. Moreover, this team came to a place
where bowling is at its zenith, and where the trouble in
picking the team is to know what good men to leave out.
The Walers were much impressed bv the skill and excel-
lent, judgment of Mr. Gould, and unanimously vote him
as one of the first, players of the Commonwealth. In the
absence of President Abercrombie, the Queenslanders
were led by his trusty lieutenant, Vice-President Burns.
Without a doubt bowlers are the most social sports
on earth. Perhaps it is because they include among them
so many men with long purses. Anyhow they do their
visitors proud, and the Banarialanders had a rollicking
time.
* * * *
The long-deferred match between the oldest-of-
the'-old bowlers in Strathfield and Parramatta clubs took
place on the Parramatta green, the other day. Strath-
field sent along a mighty quartette in age—Pierce 84,
Thompson 80, Cowdery 80, and Bunting 74—aggregating
318 years ; while Parramatta’s team was young by com”
parison—Johnstone 87, Callan 75, O. J„ Byrnes and Fred
Cox 73 each-a total of only 308 years. As evidence that
bowling is a pastime for old men, the Strathfielders won
the match by 22 points to 16.
* » * ,
Last week Lord XI. met and defeated
a State Parliamentary team at Sydney Cricket Ground;
and the result was a huge bunch of omens.. The Governor-
General’s team did not play the whole bunch of tricks,
but declared with seven wickets down for 208. This was
the first parallel. The Federal Parliament has never
played its full hand against the State Frights crowd, but
has always beaten it all the same. The Sydney Telegraph
headed its account of the match : “ Wade’s Has-Beens
Routed. Which is also prophetic. Wade himself was
bowled by Arnold for one—but he will probably make a
few more at the general election. When eDht of his
wickets had fallen for 129. Wade found that the rest of
his team had quietly left him in the lurch, and he was
unable to carry on. This is w*hat will probably happen
when he faces the music in reality. In the day of his
real trouble he will almost certainly discover that his
team has deserted him. Belshazzar’s dinner wasn’t in it
compared with Wade’s cricket match.
* * * *
It is evident that the Australian XI., which
opens against Notts, in England this week, is endeavor-
ing to get into the worst odor possible. In the first place,
when the Board of Control chose the responsible officers,
some of the team kicked up a fuss, and Noble was
allegedly in a bad humor because the Board asked him to
be captain. Now Manager Laver joins in a growl with a
letter in which it is alleged that the team was pushed
off bankrupt; that the choice of berths on the
boat led to trouble and squabbling among the
team ; and, finally, Laver kicks at the Board’s action
in putting its full title and monogram on the stationery
which will mostly be used by the player in writing to his
own or somebody else’s girl. W. P.'McElhone, who was
secretary of the Board when the team was chosen, rs on
the trail of Laver, and states that the manager received
£l5O, while each member received £5O besides having his
passage-money paid—preliminary sums largely in excess
of those handed out to previous teams—and that the
members of the team were perfectly satisfied with the
berths on the boat. Secretary Mac. says the Board will
finally deal with the recalcitrants when they happen back
to Australia.
The only first favorite to get first past the post
at Caulfield (Vie.) last Saturday was Eclipse in the hurdle
race. In the four flat races neither a first nor second
favorite scored during the afternoon. The hurdle event
opened the proceedings, and gave punters a delusive
sweetener, but for the following five races (including a
steeplechase) the average starting price of the winner
was Bto 1. And when a melancholy punter sits down in
cold blood to consider the methods of Isaac, whose other
name is Moses, he realises the fact that 8 to 1 on the
“ books ” would mean something very considerable on the
tote. How gorgeous are Isaac's profits when the average
price of five winners in succession4s Bto 1'
* * * ■*
The recent motor-boat race from Sydney to
Newcastle and back was not a howling success from a
sporting point of view, but it was a triumph from a
national st mdpoint, It demonstrated the fact that Aus-
tralian benzine, made from N.S.W, shale, heats the im-
ported fuel out of sight. The owner of Roxana, the
scratch boat, declares that, by using the N.S.W, goods,
he got greater speed with 20 per cent, less oil ; and that
the oil is superbly clean. Some objection has been
made to the smell ; hut when the local manufacturers
get their scrubbing plant installed it will no doubt be
completely deodorised, and give ev>n better results than
it is doing at present. And already it is proving an ideal
fuel without being scrubbed.
» * * ♦
Sergeant C. Edwards, who goes to England for
the Bisley rifle meeting at the expense of the Australian
Rifles (Sydney), is brother to Sergeant Stan Edwards,
who created much jealousy by gathering in the big rifle-
shooting prizes in Australia last year. In the “selection
shoot” (the Bisley test—running man and disc targets),
Edwards points totalled 328 ; Corporal Lungren was next
in order with 297 ; the rest of the shootists a long way in
the rear.
* * * *
A systematic effort is at last being made to yard
in the unscrupulous retailer of liquors who, for the sake
of an extra margin of profit, trades off imitations on the
unwary. Of late years, the beverage “ 0.T,” has caught
the Australian trade with a cyclonic whirl as the leading
teetotal liqueur, principally owing to the remarkable
analysts’ reports in Its favor ; and the usual imitation
and deception by would-be rivals has followed. The
“ 0.T.” proprietary, having done the decent thing in
issuing a timely warning, have a staff of Inspectors out in
all the States ready to come down with a knock-out on
ail and sundry who pass off substitutes when customers
call for the genuine, and only, “O.T.”*
TO OVERCOME INDIGESTION.
In the first place remove the cause, which is
mainly the use of improper food, eating too fast,
excessive use of alcoholic liquors or tobacco, and
sometimes excessive work or study. Get the sys-
tem down to its normal condition, clear out the
bowels, assist digestion by Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and the rest is simply a matter of diet.
' “Eighteen months ago I was subject to violent
attacks of indigestion,” writes Mrs. Honor
CHykson, Uralla, N.S.W.. “I could not bear
the pressure of my clothes on the body, and I
would feel as if I was suffocating. I also suffered
from defective vision and severe headaches. My
sister advised me to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills and pressed me to take three which she gave
me. I took them and noticed a feeling of great
relief. I thereupon purchased a bottle, and with
continued treatment I was quite cured. I always
keep them by me, and my sons generally carry a
bottle in their pockets. Whenever I "find any
symptoms of indigestion returning I take one or
two, and they put me right again almost immedi-
ately.”
, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are not simply a
purgative which forces the food out of the body,
depriving the stomach of its nourishment and thus
starving the system ; they contain the essential
properties that are temporarily lacking in the
stomach through weakness, and complete diges-
tion and assimilation, and so restore the functions
of the digestive organs by obtaining the maximum
of nutriment from the food, which sustains the
body and assures good health.


The SUMMER is here, and with it has come the “SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spenJ
them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
Telephones i 4349 Central. Fall Details at CITY OFFICE,
1 29 Katoomba. 48 Castlereagh Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL,
Full particulars from—
DONALD ROSS 6 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney, The s Y 0 e r t e erinary
<*Y
i
BEN!!!;
THE, FIRST RISS
on a pretty girl’s lips just takes your breath
away, but the first ride on a
B. and B. MODEL 3 CYCLE at £ll
wouldn’t make you turn a hair. Made of the
best imported parts, fitted with first-class tyres,
and guaranteed for a year.
Send for our 1909 CATALOGUE. Mention this paper when writing.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest Cycle-buildinjf
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ANDREW McGEE
ĥ
Once a man smokes an Andrew McGee
French Briar he’ll never change it for
any other.
He realises in it a cool-smoking pipe that
pleases him better than any other.
The ANDREW McGEE FRENCH BRIAR, with
Silver Spigot Mouthpiece, 4/6.
The Leading Tobacconist and Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 CASTLEREACH STREET, cr. Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
SALOON OPKN ALL DAY WEDNESDAYS.
BILLIARDS LTD.
(Phone
1338 City).
630, 632 and 634 George
25 Full-Size
AlcocK Tables.
Street, SYDNEY (near Liverpool Street).
Several Private Rooms, which can be engaged
in advance by a ring on the ’phone.
Admitted by experts to be the Stomach and Liver Pill of the
Age, and invaluable for the cure of Anaemia in Women, Debility
in Men, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Constipation, Flatulence, Gas-
tritis, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Neuralgia, and Costiveness.
99
“PEE.RO
PILLS are
beyond value to
persons living on
farms, shearing-
sheds, cattle-runs,
sheep-stations, or
mining camps.
They are the best
doctor for the
home, because
they save life and
promote health.
L-Jl'l!
[i _ Will clear fheComplexion i
Lure CdnSiiparionJJiztincss. In-/
1 digesl’ion.Hcadache.and all
, Uver Affections.
Price Is.perbox.
DOSE-l-2-rosPillsat
v ,c Bedtime.
Mr. Gr. NIELL,
commercial tra-
veller, writing
from Hotel Met-
ropole, Sydney,
Feb. 20th, 1009,
says: “Your
‘PEERO’ Pills
are a grand nerve
and appetite
maker. I swear by
them. Theyarein-
valUable for men.”
Australia is noted for the prevalence of serious stomach and liver diseases, caused
by the continuous use of heavy meat foods, and carelessness of diet and eating.
The most serious diseases spring from stomach neglect, leading to expensive
operations. The timely use of “ PEERO ” Pills corrects and strengthens the
stomach, makes new blood, gives nerve force, and keeps the liver healthy, curing
the most chronic cases of constipation rapidly. It is the advance agent of Health
and should be in every home. “PEERO” Pills preserve and prolong life’
A SORE CORE for INDIGESTION 8 CONSTIPATION.
AN ATHLETE’S TESTIMONY.—MR. W. BARKER,
of Kin{>- Street, Newtown, writes:—“l was a
sufferer for years from Constipation so serious that
I looked upon myself as dead. I could never enjoy
a meal. I took ‘ PEERO ’ Pills for four weeks, and
they have made me a new man. Your pills are, in
my opinion, the best for constipation known."
MRS. W. RUSSELL, Victoria Street, Darling-
hurst, says “ I was known as the walking ghost
of Darlinghuist, I was so pale and bloodless. I
had anemia for years, which threatened decline.
Your pills are for women worth their weight in
gold. I HAVE TAKEN A NEW LEASE OF LIFE
since taking ‘PEERO’ Pills.”
“ PEERO ” PILLS may be obtained all Chemists and Grocers, Is.
per box, or direct from the proprietors post free on receipt of price!
The 'RAY' CHEMICAL CO.
76 Pitt Street. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Amusements.
BEK GOUGH,
CENTENARY HALL, SYDNEY,
MAY 6 and 8.
The First Entertainment on Saturday Night was
A WHIRLWIND SUCCESS.
Life-like Rapid Cartoons were made on Saturday night of
Sir William Lyne, Mr. J. C. Williamson, Herr Slapoffski,
as well as many Humorous and Interesting Subjects,
interspersed with Comic Sketches, Funny Stories,
Operatic Travesties, etc., etc.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EACH NIGHT.
Cartoons of other well-known Sydney Men will be made
Nightly, with a Change of Programme, including Songs
and Duets by
ROSINA BUCKMANN and PHILIP NEWBURY.
Prices—4s., 35., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Doors Open at 7, beginning at 8. Day Sale at Searl’s.
Frederic Shipman, Manager.
MELBA,
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR, 1909
(Under direction of John Lemmone).
NEW ZEALAND—APRIL to MAY 24,
NEW SOUTH WALES—
Commencing at SYDNEY, JUNE 1.
QUEENSLAND—
Commencing at BRISBANE, JUNE 2G.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening at 7.45 sharp.
THE J. C. WILLIAMSON
GRAND ANNUAL CARNIVAL ATTRACTION.
JACK AND JILL
OUTSHINES ALL ITS PREDECESSORS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, and
FOR SIX MORE NIGHTS ONLY,
THE PLAY THAT HAS AROUSED
THE EMPIRE.
Unprecedented Scenes of Enthusiasm continue to greet
MAJOR GUY DU MAURIER’S Three-Act Play,
AN ENGLISHMAN’S HOME.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. . PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Me.vnell & Gunn Co.
Managing Directors : Clyde Mkynell & John Gunn.
LAST NIGHTS,
HENRY ARTHUR JONES’ MASTERPIECE,
THE HYPOCRITES.
SATURDAY NEXT,
Wilson Barrett’s Last Play, LUCKY DURHAM.
Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
P
ALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : ALLAN HAMILTON.
TO-NIGHT at 7.50.
ALLAN HAMILTON’S Dramatic Company.
LAST FIVE NIGHTS of
TN THE RANKS.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON,
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, MAY 12, 13, 14,
A MESSAGE FROM MARS.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
■|*HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
ET LAST THREE NIGHTS!
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
George Street West, Near End of Penny Tram Section.
Season Positively Closes on SATURDAY NIGHT.
GREAT SPANISH BULL FIGHT.
£lOOO GIRAFFE £lOOO, has been stuffed at Enormous
Expense, and is nowon View at the Menagerie.
THE RIDING HORSE, etc., etc.
PRICES —45., 35., 25., Is. Children Full Price to
Gallery. Box Plan at Paling’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor k Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
CHUNG LING SOO, World’s Greatest Magician.
YEOTHA, The Indian Red Bird, assisted bv Capt. Grade.
Mr. CULL PITT and MDLLE. A DELES.
GRAHAM AND DENT.
IRVING SAYLES.
MR. WILL JAMES.
The TWO PRICES.
The MARLOW SISTERS.
THE TWO BELLS.
LITTLE BABY WATSON.
MISS MALVINA MOORE.
WILL WHITE.
GEORGE SORLEY.
PRICES —35., and Is.
Plan at Paling’s.
APERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
JACK KELLY and MISS KELLY, Pistol Shot and
Whip Manipulators.
G. AY. HUNTER, Comedian Monologuist.
CHAS. FANNING, Comedian.
DALE & O’MALLEY, Patter Comedians.
THE LAURELS. Ping Pong Table Act.
THE WHEELERS, Trick Cyclists.
STEWART and LORRAINE, Clever Musical Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. J3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6cf, 2s, Is.
V
PAT PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
1 1 themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly enjov GOOD HEALTH.
Our . NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
FAT quickly, safely, and per-
manently. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements
L.J ER MAJESTY'S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
1 * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
EIGHT MORE NIGHTS ONLY.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE
SUNDAY.
RE-APPEARANCE OF MRS. BROUGH.
Box Plan at. Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
STUPENDOUS AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTION.
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation,
—IN —
THE MAN FROM OUTBACK.
Popular Prices.
Plan at Allan’s.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ONLY EIGHT MORE NIGHTS.
MEYNELL & GUNN’S ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
in
The GIRL BEHIND THE COUNTER
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6(1.. Is. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
FOR A FEW MORE NIGHTS,
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY IN
SWEET KITTY BELLAIKS.
BOX PLAN at ALLAN’S.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
DirPf.f.inn II Xr. N
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays.
J.fcNTAIT’S
PICTURES.
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THE
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Militarv Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at. Glen’s.
Missing Friends.
DAVID ROSS-KATE ROSS.
IF DAVID ROSS and KATE ROSS,
formerly of Berrimal, Victoria, will com-
municate with the undersigned they will hear of
something to their advantage.
D. J. WALLACE, Solicitor,
Swan Hill, Victoria.
WILLIAM SANDISON, formerly on West
Coast of Tasmania, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
D. EMONSON,
Ruby Vale, Anakie, Queensland.
Legal Notice.
JOSEPH EMMERSON.
INFORMATION WANTED as to JOSEPH
EMMERSON, formerly of Wakefield,
England, Teacher of Music, and for many years
Organist at the Wakefield Parish Church, and
subsequently at the Queen Street Wesleyan
Chapel, Scarborough.
Last heard of Scarborough, January, 1893. If
living is about 70 years of age, and is entitled to
property as next of kin of his daughter.
Address, immediately, Messrs. MAITLANDS
& HAWORTH, Solicitors, Wakefield, England.
THIN WEAK, NERVOUS, SCRAGGY,
I imi, elat-chested, run-down
and UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If you want to add flesh, be made
plump, strong, healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of
“MIRACULA” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Wi
!?>'
\
“KURLQ”
produces beautiful curls or waves
in a few days without the aid of
tongs or pins. Makes the hair soft
and silky, strengthens the roots, and
prevents hair falling out.
Used according to the
simple directions is per-
fectly harmless. Curls
the straightest hair if
not cut too short.
Not affected by sea air,
damp weather, or heated
rooms. Price
2/6 per Bottle
(Post Free anywhere).
Send Postal Note to
S TAR NO TEL TY CO., 229 CoUir.s St, Melbourne
POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from Thk Bulletin Office.
PRICE 10/6 .
Post Free to
any address.
A SHAVE YOU’D LIKE
Is the clean, quick shave you’d get with the “ PLUM ”
RAZOR. It has—and it keeps indefinitely—a specially
keen shaving edge, guaranteed and kept in order by us for
two years. FREE OF CHARGE.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/S
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
Wo Grind and Sot Razors 1/- each.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.


BOOMERANG
LJ
.AW&BBEB
-- (iRA\I) mx
AT THE
FMMCO-BBITISH EXHIBITION:
1 (ON
d
ħ
Notice of Change in Horn Equipment
and Prices of EDISON Phonographs.
All Edison Phonographs will now be equipped with a large,
solid metal, polygonal-shaped Horn and a Horn Crane—
similar to our illustration.
The horns are extremely handsome —finished in black
with gilded decoration, and the sound production will also
be improved by this new departure.
The innovation necessitates a slight increase in the prices
of the complete machines and outfits, which now will be priced
as follows :
The Edison “Gem” ... £2 12s . 6d.
The Edison “Standard,” £5 ss. Od.
The Edison “Home” ... £7 7s. Od.
The Edison “Triumph,” £ll 11s. Od.
These prices are for the phonographs complete with the
large horn and crane.
In a few days we wi.l make the most remarkable announcement that
has ever been made regarding 1 Edison Records. WATCH THE PAPERS.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
I)kpt. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful count j,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous sceneiy.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
„ Mr I. M. CAMPBELL,
Executive Buildings. rw J
George Street, Brisbane. Genera irec or.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
ABDULLA CIGARETTES
THE . . .
POPULAR
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth from or^the
Australian Agent, J. P. York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
PRICE. L’iST. Arid 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
STEVENS
.25 Caliber Repeating Gallery Rifle No. 80
•m
“THE BULL’S-EYE KIND.”
Made to take the famous .25 STEVENS ft. F. CARTRIDGE.
The only .25 Caliber Rim Fire Repeating Rifte on the market.
Ask your Dealer for STEVENS ARMS and ACCESSORIES.
160-Page complete Catalogue will be mailed on demand.
J. STEVENS ARMS (Si TOOL COMPANY,
546 BROADWAY,
CHICOPEE FACES, MASS., U.S.A.
Under Vice-Regal
h
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . , .
Miss Van Brakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereafrh Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
SMOKE
REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. \EIELD, Melbourne.
15. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
1\ RICHARDS, Uatrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
Ride only^W
BROOKS 1
ADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free
T. B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
ilk
t
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
ĥ


MAY NUMBER
m
NOW ON SALE
(MM
$$r j
UNDER
NEW
EDITORIAL
DIRECTION
Obtainable Everywhere
ħ
POSTED
1/1.


DO YOUR SHOPPING BY POST
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s PURSE, solid silver, richly embossed,
Stork design, silk lined, with four compartments.
Size, 3Jin x 2|in.
“POST 21/ FREE.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 5C,'.
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, real amber stem, solid sil-
ver mounts and screws, straight or bent stem.
POST 12/« FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Chain PURSE, croco-
dile leather, gold or green,
solid silver mounts and chain.
POST 25/ FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/0,
21/.
Our facilities for taking good care of Country Customers were never
better, and we guarantee prompt and satisfactory service
through our up-to-date Mail Order Department.
jpflluilll-
e a
m
m
A. SAUAr/ERS.
CARD-RECEIVER, pure silver-plated, handsomely en-
graved and embossed, satin finished.
17/6
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUES.
If you’re interest-
ed in Watches,
Clocks. Jewellery,
Silver-plate, Lea-
ther or Optical
Goods, write for
our Illustrated
Catalogue. We will
send you a copy
post free on re-
quest. Write to-
day. It’s freely
yours for the ask-
ing, and is worth
having.
BACK COMB, imitation tortoiseshell, 9et
gold, scroll mount, securely riveted mount.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. o-vUxWERS.
Ladies’ WAISTBELT, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, A 1 quality, pierced floral design,
in all sizes to fit any waist.
POST 10/ti FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination TRINKET STAND and PI
CUSHION, pure silver-plated, satin finish.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 15/, 20/, 25/.
BUYING
BY MAIL.
You may safely or-
der by mail if you
cannot make a per-
sonal selection, as
we pledge . our-
selves to treat
every customer
with absolute fair-
ness. With the ex-
ception of Clocks
and Chinaware, we
send all goods car-
riage free to any
part of Austra-
lasia.
m
ss;
A. SAUNDERS.
PLAYING-CARD CASE, pure silver-plated,
richly embossed, with cards and card-liftin~ at-
tachment.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent, ’s SHAVING ROLL, comprising
Razors, finest Sheffield steel, corn knife,
scissors, in leather roll.
POST 21/ FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 22/6.
pair of
tweezers,
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR, pure r.*ver-
plated, richly embossed, bevelled
mirror.
POST 10/6 FREE.
, BRUSH to match, 10/0.
I 5
FM
Mr
iSSui.
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT SPRAY, fine hobnail cut crys-
al glass, solid silver top, full size.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Smaller Size, 10/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Ebony HAIR BRUSH, solid
silver shield, fine white bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6. 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
WAX-MATCH HOLDER and ASH
TRAY, pure silver-plated,
nickel-silver pierced base.
POST 4/6 FREE.
To hold Safety Matches, 5/6.
SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO JAR, pure silver-plated, hand-engraved,
satin finished, height s.'in.
POST 17/6
Other styles, 20/,,
FREE.
25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, 4 pieces, solid silver,
richly embossed handles, polished steel
ends.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, solid silver, richly em-
bossed, long- white bristles."
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Peggy
leather,
sewn.
POST
HAND-BAG, Morocco
nicely finished, silk
S/O FREE.
Other styles in fancy leathers,
from 10/6, 12/6, 15/, to 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, solid silver,
richly embossed, fine white
bristles.
POST 10/0 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
m
m
m
as
SfflSH--
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE HOLDER, real amber holder, gold-
mounted, in richly-engraved sterling silver case, 2£in
long.
POST 10/(5 FREE.
Other styles, 5/G, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH and SOAP HOLDER,
solid silver, fine badger bristles, soap fits into
handle.
POST 16/0 FREE. '
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
vettilA
BXj 5 V’
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS BOTTLE,
fine hobnail cut-glass
bottle, engraved top, 3in
high.
POST 7/6 FREE.
Other sizes, 5/6, 8/6,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cloth or Hat BRUSH, solid silver, richly embossed,
“Day Dream” pattern, 7in long, extra long, fine, white
bristles.
POST 20/ FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS BOTTLE,
line hobnail cut-glass,
engraved silver top,
height 3Jin, 8/6; 2Jin,
6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT-PIN STAND, pure silver-plated,
amethyst thistle, velvet base, /'.in
high.
POST 3/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


V|
THE Kodak has simplified the
process of photography so that
now anybody can indulge in
this pleasant and profitable hobby.
The taking, developing and printing
of the pictures is so simple that
from start to finish a child may
master it.
And the Kodak secures better re-
sults, too. The Kodak Cartridge does
away with the dark room for loading
and unloading, and the Kodak Film
Tank enables you to develop in day-
light. Kodak photography is photo-
graphy with all the trouble left out.
Full details of all
Kodaks will be
supplied on request.
All Kodak
supplies are
sold at English
list prices.
The No. la Folding
Pocket Kodak.
This is an ideal instrument for the
tourist, as it folds into such a small
space. It takes pictures measuring
2jin. x 3£in. without reloading. Only
weighs 160 z., and is fitted with a
Meniscus Achromatic Lens, a Pocket
Automatic Shutter, and a brilliant re-
versible finder.
Price - £2/10 -
Postage extra, N.S.W., 1/-; Inter-State, 1/8.
The No. 3 Folding
Pocket Kodak.
Simplicity and compactness, combined
with great adaptability to a wide range
of conditions have made this camera a
remarkable success. It’s a quarter-
plate camera with a 12-exposure
capacity, and beautifully fitted through-
out.
Price - =£3 12/6
Postage extra, N.S.W., 1/3; Inter-State, 2/2.
The No. 3a Folding
Pocket Kodak.
This embraces all the practical
features of cameras several times its
bulk, yet still retains the Kodak sim-
plicity. Its pictures measure 3£in. x
s|in., and the camera is specially suited
for high-grade work.
Price - £4/10/-
Postage extra, N.S.W., 1/3; Inter-state, 2/2.
Baker & Rouse Proprietary Ltd.,
375 & 377 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
BILIOUSNESS AND ALL LIVER TROUBLES
Removed by KUTNOW’S POWDER.
intut"
i
i
iim
KUTNOW’S
Improved ErrißvesccwT CarwSBAO
POWDER,
(U
Hirsdicttspruiig or Deer Leap
L°
London
41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK._
AA/ HEN liver troubles arise from any cause take a dessert-
spoonful of Kutnow’s Powder in the morning before
breakfast. The action of this refreshing corrective is materi-
ally hastened by a cup of hot tea taken about ten minutes
after ; in twenty or thirty minutes the desired effect is attained,
and the entire system is cleansed and invigorated. Kutnow’s
Powder has been before the public for a period of over
twenty years, and is most strongly recommended by the
leading Physicians for Biliousness and every form of Liver
Trouble. It is speedy and painless in action, pleasant to
the taste, and suitable for men, women, and children.
Rev. C. E. WINCOTT
WRITES
“ About three years ago I was confined to my bed for
a short time with a very acute ' attack of liver complaint.
• •
I was recommended by my doctor to try Kutnow’s
Powder, and I am glad to say that after taking two bottles
I was completely cured, and my health has been better
ever since. I have since recommended your excellent
preparation to quite a number of sufferers, who testify of
similar results.
“(Incumbent of St. Philip’s Church, Adlington, Lancs.).”
SOLE PROPRIETORS *
S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
- _ [l-
HOW TO DETECT
FRAUD!
The genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be
had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the World. See that the
fac-simile signature, “S. KUTNOW
& CO., LD.,” and the registered
trade-mark, “ HIRSCHENSPRUNG,
OR DEER LEAP,” are on the carton
and bottle. You will then
Get GENUINE
Kutnow’s Powder.


r
AUSTRALIAN HOUSEHOLD
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
A GUARANTEE OF GOOD FAITH!!
- ■ . - =£==- r~ .! , —=
SPECIAL ! We are so confident of the value of
this Medical Library that we are prepared to send
a Set of the Works for perusal to any prospective
buyer AT OUR OWN EXPENSE. If not con-
sidered of sufficient value to be retained they may,
within seven days from receipt of same, be
RETURNED TO US AT OUR EXPENSE.
If not returned, it will be considered that the set
of Medical Works have been purchased, and the
sum of 60s. must then be remitted to us.
These Four Volumes written for Australasia by an Australian Physician
Sent Post
Free for
60
IN THE CITY THEY WILL SAVE MUCH SUFFERING.
IN THE BUSH THESE BOOKS WILL SAVE MANY LIVES.
ORDER FORM.
THE BULLETIN ISSUE AUSTRALIAN
HOUSEHOLD MEDICAL LIBRARY.
“The Illustrated Australian Med leal Guide,” 2 Vo Is.
(2nd Edition)
“ The Attainment of Health : and Treatment by Diet ”
(2nd Edition)
“ The Feeding and Management of Australian Infants
(7th Edition)
Postage
I remit herewith Sixty Shillings, for which yon undertake to forward iht
above works complete, carefully packed, and post free. I am, yours etc.,
To the Manager,
THE BULLETIN Office, SYDNEY.
Please forward me the following Medical
Works, as per your special offer, viz.,
State whether remittance is by Cheque, Bank Notes,
Money Order, Postal Notes or Cash.
Name .
1909.
£3 3 0
O IO 6
0 2 6
0 5 0
£4 10
A ddress


u
Important Analysis,
L
A N
9
S
Pure Herbal Skin Soap.
F. H. MOLESWORTH, F.C.S., F.G.S., Mem. Soc. Chem. Ind. London; Public Analyst and Assayer;
Late Lecturer In Chemistry S.A. Government and Technical College, Sydney.
Central Analytical and Assay Office, Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, 21st September 1908
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., 199 Clarence Street, Sydney.—Gentlemen,—l have made a careful analysis of a sample of “ Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap,” which 1 find to be composed of
vegetable oils and fats, saponified with pure alkali. It contains no free alkali, nor any substance deleterious to the most delicate skin. The perfume and color are both of natural and harmless plant origin
neither having any trace of animal or poisonous materials. Having powerful but non=poisonous antiseptics thoroughly incorporated in the process of manufacture, this soap possesses healing properties
which will remove diseases of the skin and restore it to a healthy condition. It is a beautifully finished article, comparing favorably with similar imported soaps, and if used regularly as an adjunct of the
toilet, it will assist in keeping the body in health, and will have a pleasing, soothing effect on the skin. Yours faithfully, F. H. MOLESWORTH, F.C.S., F.G.S. M.S Cl. London Analyst
ACME OF PERFECTION.
AS a SKIN FOOD, SHAVING SOAP and
TOILET PREPARATION, KUGEL-
MAN N’S PURE HERBAL SKIN
SOAP is fast achieving a position before
all others as the Soap for special treatment for the
complexion and skin, as well as for medical,
hygienic, shaving and general toilet purposes.
The main reason for this unique assumption of
public favor is that KUGELMANN'S HERBAL
.SKIN SOAP is not merely an article of ordinary
commercial manufacture, but is carefully pre-
pared under the direction and from the prescrip-
tion of Australia’s Leading Consulting Herbal
Practitioner, so as to really constitute a part of
his treatment. In short, two great principles
form the solid base of this Plerbal Soap :
1. That ABSOLUTE PURITY is essential in
any article of constant application to that delicate,
vital organ, the Skin.
2. That soap affords one of the readiest mediums
for the medical treatment of the human body.
The HERBAL SKIN SOAP in its present
form represents the fruit of nearly forty years’
experience in the use and prescription of beneficent
herbs for the cure of Australian maladies, and,
therefore, is better adapted to the climatic and
other conditions of Australian life than any
imported soap.
For the Prevention of Redness and Skin Irrita-
tion of all kinds, the cure of Eczema, Tetter,
Ringworm, Shingles, Blotches, Pimples and
Freckles; the prevention and cure of Dandruff,
fostering a stimulating effect upon the growth of
the Hair, stopping falling-out, inducing growth,
and making it soft and glossy. As a dentifrice, it
arrests decay and produces a dazzling brilliance.
For Shaving, is of Unique Benefit, owing to its
production of a rich, lasting and creamy lather, and
the exercise of soothing and hygienic functions
upon the skin.
In the nursery its beneficent effects upon the
tender skin of infancy obviates the use of powder,
etc., the child’s skin being always kept cool and
smooth by its use.
“ Beauty’s Aid ” is the well-earned title of this
Herbal Skin Soap, because, in a healthy and per-
manent manner, it enhances natural beauties as
no mere nostrum can ever hope to do. In every
department of the toilet, and for every medicinal
or hygienic purpose for which soap can be used,
this soap has proved superior to any other soap.
The Greatness of the Herbal Skin Soap is the
greatness of Nature. It is a rare combination of
natural organic remedies culled from the grand
and simple provision of Mother Earth, whose
vegetable kingdom contains in abundance the only
medicines suited for assimilation by mankind.
The great appreciation of Kugelmann’s pure
Herbal Skin Soap is indicated by the following
selection of testimonials, which are portion of those
we are daily receiving from every part of Australia :
A LOVELY COMPLEXION.
92 Shafton Road, Kangaroo Point,
Brisbane, 17th February, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
14-10 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dear Sir, —I like Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin
Soap owing to its keeping my complexion free
from blemishes, freckles and sunburn. If I get
sunburned in the course of the day, I find your
Herbal Skin Soap will take it quite away by
morning. If I run out of your soap, my com-
plexion soon begins to look blotchy and dis-
colored. I can soon get it right again, though,
by using plenty of your Skin Soap.
(Signed) BEATRICE BROWN.
SOFTENS THE SKIN, CURES PRICKLY
HEAT.
Lavinia House, Upper Roma Street,
Brisbane, Q., 24th April, 1902.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.
Dear Sirs, —Perhaps you will be pleased to
learn that I consider your Herbal Skin Soap far
away the best that I have ever used. It is the
only soap I ever tried that had any really per-
manent softening effect upon the skin. Last
Summer I suffered occasionally from prickly heat,
but I quickly cured this irritating complaint
whenever it showed itself by washing with a
thick lather of your Herbal Skin Soap.—Yours
sincerely, (Signed) L. ROBINSON.
Witness: J. Williams.
FALLING HAIR CURED.
Glebe Point, Svdney,
29tli May, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I am pleased in being able to in-
form you that your celebrated Herbal Skin Soap
is by far the best-soap on the market for the Skin
and Hair. My hair was falling out terribly last
summer, and I was advised to try a good soap,
which I did ; in fact, I tried several so-called
‘‘ good ” soaps, but was greatly disappointed to
find that they did not have the slightest effect on
my hair, and it still continued to fall, until one
day I noticed your Herbal Skin Soap advertise-
ment in the Sydney Bulletin, and resolved to
give it a fair trial. I procured a box, and was so
pleased with the result that I sent for another
box, and now my hair has ceased falling alto-
gether. It is beginning to grow quite thick and
glossy, thanks to your celebrated Herbal Skin
Soap.
1 shall always have much pleasure in recom-
mending it to my friends, as it is an excellent
Soap for both the Hair and the Skin, and the per-
fume is simply delightful.
(Signed) (Miss) DAISY JONES.
EXCEPTIONAL CURATIVE PROPERTIES.
Ipswich, Queensland. 7th August, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
14-10 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Sirs, —Of all the Soaps I have tried, I find your
Herbal Skin Soap easily first. Not only is it
pleasant to the skin as a toilet soap, but it has
also exceptional curative properties. To wash
with Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap is like using
an ointment, for the lather cures all breaks of the
skin, pimples, etc., with which it comes in con-
tact. (Signed) SAM PIPER,
Boot and Shoe Emporium, Nicholas Street,
Ipswich, Queensland.
FOR SCALP IRRITATION, SHAVING, Etc.
33 Dundas Place, Albert Park, Melb.,
lltli August, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
14-1 G Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Gentlemen, —As the result of a. .fairly .long ex-
perience of your Herbal Skin Soap, I can speak
most enthusiastically, and without any reserva-
tion, as to its merits, not only as a delightful
toilet preparation, but also for its great medicinal
virtues, and the feeling of solid comfort which
follows its use.
Previously to making its acquaintance, I had
been much troubled for years with Dandruff and
Scalp Irritation, accompanied by dryness ..and
falling of the Hair, for which I had used many
advertised preparations without any remedial
effects. A vigorous Shampoo with your Herbal
Skin Soap, however, had such a unique and
pleasant stimulating effect that I persisted in its
use, with the result that my hair is entirely free
from Dandruff, has altogether ceased falling out,
and is greatly improved in appearance.
As a Shaving Soap I consider Kugelmann’s
Herbal Skin Soap unapproachable, as it has abso-
lutely no hardening or irritating effect upon the
skin, but, on the contrary, maintains a rich,
creamy lather, which makes the operation of
shaving a delightful one, and leaves the skin in a
smooth and pliable condition.
My wife speaks in the highest terms of the
Herbal Skin Soap as a Nursery and Toilet Pre-
paration, and could not, in fact, be persuaded to
use any other than yours ; and from the numerous
friends to whom I have recommended it at various
times there has been only one expression of
opinion concerning your great preparation, and
that has been the very highest.
(Signed) P. E. NORWOOD.
\
\
V
1%
as
■ .
“BEAUTY’S AID.”
“FOR SOFT and GLOSSY HAIR.”
FOR GLOSSY HAIR AND BABY’S SKIN.
Gray Street, Brisbane, Q.,
24th April, 1902.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.
Dear Sirs, —I find your Herbal Skin Soap ex-
cellent for my hair. I know of no Soap to equal
it; it makes my hair soft and glossy. I also use
your Soap for washing iny baby, as it keeps his
skin free from soreness, and quite smooth and
cool. When I use your Soap for the baby, po
powder is necessary.—l remain; Sir, yours
obediently.
(Signed) (Mrs.) EMMA KENT.
TENDER SKINS OF CHILDREN.
O’Connell Street, West End,
Brisbane, Q., 26th April, 1902.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.
Dear Sirs,—l write to let you know that my
wife considers your Herbal Skin Soap to be the
best obtainable. She has found it particularly
good for the skin, and especially suitable for the
tender skin of children. I myself use it for shav-
ing, and find it prevents all roughness and sore-
ness.—Yours very truly,
(Signed)' WALTER ,J. ADEY.
Witness : J. Pearce, of Trouton’s Pharmacy.
SHAVING WITHOUT USUAL SORENESS.
21 Carlisle Street, Leichhardt, N.S.W.,
15th September, 1006.
Messrs. H. E. Kugklmann & Co.,
190 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I also wish to compliment you on
your excellent Herbal Skin Soap! For years I
have suffered with soreness after shaving 1 . Then
I heard of your soap, and have used it for the past
two years; during that time I have never once
had any soreness. I can highly recorrimend it to
anyone, especially those who have a tender skin.
If you think others may benefit by these lines,
you are at liberty to use them as you think fit.
Again thanking you.
(Signed) GEO. W. PARDONNE.
AN AUTHORITY ON SOAP AVOWS IT’S
DELIGHTFUL.
Ipswich, Queensland, 7th August, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. Kcgelmann & Co.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Dear Sirs, —I am a Soap Manufacturer, and
can, therefore, speak with some authority on the
subject of soap. Your Herbal Skin Soap is the
best that, so far, has come under my notice, and I
have seen and used pretty nearly every soap that
comes on the market. Not only has Kugelmann’s
Herbal Skin Soap a delightful odor, but it has a
softening effect upon the skin, and quickly heals
up abrasions and sores.
(Signed) HY. TIVOLI HOOPER.
BALDNESS CURED.
43 Peel Street, West Melbourne,
June 13, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. Kugeemann & Co., 1
Wholesale Druggists,
14-1 G Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —About four years ago, when I first
had your Herbal Skin Soap brought under my
notice, I was almost totally bald ; in fact, I hail
no hair at all on the top of my head. I had tried
all kinds of so-called “ Hair Restorers,” but they
did me absolutely no good whatever ; in fact, I
was losing even the little bit of hair I still had.
About June, 1902, when I was employed at the
“ Opera House ” hy the great Australian Entre-
preneur, Mr. Harry Rickards, a friend, as a great
favor, gave me a box of your Herbal Skin Soap.
I used to wash my head with it, and after a
while I noticed that my hair had stopped falling
out. Up to this time 1 did not attribute the stop-
page to using your Soap, but at last I could not
think of anything else that was stopping my hair
from falling, so I started to rub the lather well
into my head every day. I used to rub it well
in every day for about half an hour, and at last I
noticed a thick down appearing all over my head,
which had been as “ bald as a badger ” before, and
in a little while my hair was as thick as ever, and
has remained so ever since. I may also state that
my wife finds your Herbal Skin Soap unequalled
for the Complexion, while I can say the same for
it for Shaving. I will always be pleased to give
any further information re your marvellous Herbal
Skin Soap to any enquirer, as I cannot speak too
highly of it. (Signed) HARRY AIREY.
(Sworn before me at Melbourne, in the State of
Victoria, this sixteenth day of July, 1907.)
(Signed) JOHN MUNDAY, J.P.
CURATIVE IN BARCOO AND SKIN
DISEASE.
Mount Ormond Tin Mines, near Irvinebank,
North Queensland, 4th July, 1907.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
I have given a thorough trial to your Herbal
Skin Soap, which, from my experience of its use,
I consider superior to other soaps used in con-
nection with surgical operations. It is also a
fragrant and most effective Toilet Soap.
I may inform you that I gave some to a lady
friend of mine, who was suffering from Prickly
Heat. She informed me that the first application
soothed the unpleasant irritation, and that, after
using it two or three times, the inflammation
entirely disappeared.
I have also used it for something from which we
suffer out here-in the “Never Never ” country,
where vegetables are scarce and practically un-
obtainable, and which bushmen know as the
“ Barcoo Rot”—an angry irritant sore, that
spreads over the surface of the skin when it
receives a scratch or a slight wound, and declines
to heal for some time, even under the influence of
Carbolic Ointment and a course of Blood-Purify-
ing Mixture. In this connection I have found the
Herbal Skin Soap marvellous in its healing and
soothing qualities. I have also used it as a wash
for dressing festered wounds, for which purpose it
has shown marked curative medical healing proper-
ties, and is undoubtedly a boon to the public. I con-
sider that for Eczema or other diseases of the Skin
it is without an equal, and that when its virtues
become known and appreciated by the public it is
likely to oust the imported Skin Soaps from the
Australian market.
Your Herbal Skin Soap cleanses the Skin, frees
its pores from impurities, and guards it from the
dangers of disease. It frees the Skin, also, from
Blotches, Pimples, Sunburns and Blemishes, etc.
I can honestly recommend it to mothers when
bathing their little ones, as it allays all irritation
and strengthens the Skin. (Signed) MATTHEW
BUTLER, J.P., Mining Engineer, Mount Or-
monde Tin Mine, N. Queensland.
Buy in Sydney from Lassetter’s, George Street; Sweet Bros., Newtown; Mick Simmons; Marcus Clark & Co. ;
Winn & Co., Redfern; W. Buckingham, Oxford Street; Washington Soul & Co., and all up-to-date Houses.
IF NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY, WILL BE POSTED BY THE PROPRIETORS ON RECEIPT OF POSTAL NOTE FOR 2/6.
Free Sample sent
on receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Obtainable also at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers throughout Australasia in boxes of three tablets.
H. E. RUGELMANN <St CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., Melbourne; 199 Clarence St., Sydney; and at Adelaide and Brisbane.


THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
‘j (Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund (£500,000 being invested in 2J- per cent. Consols at 80, the
remainder being used in the business of the Bank) 1,610,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter 1,600,000
£4,810,000
SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
with the Accounts for the HALF-YEAR to 12th OCTOBER, 1908, presented to the Proprietors at the
Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, Ist April, 1909.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 12th October last, with the Profit Account for
the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and colonial rates and taxes, and
for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £187,691 3s. lOd.
To this sum must be added £16,104 Is. lOd. brought forward from the previous half-year, making a total of
£203,795 ss. Bd., out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 12 per cent, per
annum, or £2 Bs. per share, and a Bonus of Bs. per share, free of income tax.
The Dividend and Bonus will absorb £112,000, and the Directors have further appropriated £60,000 to the
Reserve Fund, and £15,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There will then remain £16,795 ss. Bd. to be
carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend and Bonus will be payable in London and in the colonies on 2nd April.
The Directors retiring by rotation are :—The Rt. Hon. the Earl of Lichfield, Sir E. Montague Nelson, K.0.M.G.,
and the Rt. Hon. Sir Andrew R. Scoble, K.C.5.1., K.C., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Welton, Jones and Co., also offer themselves for re-election.
O. E. BARNETT, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 22nd March, 1909.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, From 13th APRIL, 1908, to 12th OCTOBER, 1908.
Undivided profit, 13th April, 1908 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £128,104 110
Less Dividend and Bonus, 2nd October, 1908.. .. .. .. .. .. .. 112,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to 12th October, 1908, after deducting rebate on bills current
at balance date (£6872 7s. 2d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful
debts .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ~ .. £350,585 6 4
Less :
L Charges of Management—
Colonial—
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the
superintendent’s department, and 171 branches and
agencies .. .. .. .. .. .. £101,183 13 1
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery
travelling, etc. .. .. .. .. .. 22,704 6 10
London —
Salaries .. .. .. .. ... .. 9,655 0 6
General expenses .. .. .. .. .. 3,672 10 11
£16,104 1 10
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial ..
London
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct—
For transfer to reserve fund ..
For reduction in cost of bank premises
£137,215 11 4
£14,117 12 11
11,560 13 3
25,678 11 2
162,594 2 6
187,691 3 10
203,795 5 8
£60,000 0 0
15,000 0 0
75,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
.. £128,795 5 8
BALANCE SHEET, 12th OCTOBER, 1908.
LIABILITIES.
Dr.
Circulation .. £510,547 0 0
Deposits .. .. .. .. .. 15,205,568 14 0
Bills payable, and other liabilities .. 2,458,768 14 1
£18,174,884 8 1
Capital £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. . 1,610,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in 2J per
cent, consols at 80,
the remainder beinjt
used in the business
of the bank.)
Profit account, undi-
vided balance .. 128,795 5 8
.. 3,338,795 5 8
£21,513,679 13 9
ASSETS. Or.
Specie, bullion and cash balances .. £4,034,012 i 7 10
Loans at call and ab short notice .. 250,000 0 0
British Government securities .. .. 927,187 211
India and colonial Government secu-
rities and other investments .. .. 611,16919 4
£5,822,370 0 1
Bills receivable, advances on securities
and ocher assets .. .. .. .. 15,496,182 14 6
Bank premises in Australia, New Zea-
land and London 195,126 19 2
£21,513,679 13 9
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. B. VV. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers
from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the
foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the
bank’s affairs as shown by the books.
London, 17th March, 1909.
WELTON, JONES and CO., Auditors.
MOMENTS WHEN
—YOU NEED
h
s
Ns
No. 4.
WHEN SHOOTING
There are moments
during yourshooting
expeditions when a
drink of -O.T. is
about the best thing
a sportsman would
wish for.
It drives out the
cold, and if bad
weather sets in it is
an excellent safe-
guard against chills.
And in addition to
this, it is a mighty
good drink too.
It is the stimulant
without the alcohol
—the beverage that
pleases the
palate, satis-
fies the thirst,
and safe-
guards the
health.
Hotels,
Grocers,
General
Stores
Sell It.
ĥ
fin
WHISKY
BRANDY
WINS OR
rc Btlßn
MAKES A
DELICIOUS
D*INK<«»
ALIO THE
BEST
LIQUEUR
A»TIAMtALS
JDIXONiO
A cue AT cuA
[or ittorcrsno.
RICHARDSONS & MELB’j
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World's Records for 24 years. YVrite for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks — Richardson Ball-Bearing
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, O.S.A. Sole Distributing- Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
RICHARDSON’
CHICAGO
Report of the Directors of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
1 The Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for
the Half-year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
2 * The profit, after deducting expenses of management, and the other items specified in the
Profit and Loss Account,
Deduct Note and Income Taxes in Australia and Great Britain
Net Profit
Balance from previous Half-year
Leaving available ... ... ••• ••• •••
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows :
Grant to Officers’ Provident I und ... ...
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £200,000) ... ...
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares
Carry forward
3 During the Half-year a Branch was opened at Noradjuha and an Agency at Lalbert in
Victoria^ e Q r(^jriary (j. enera i Annual Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Company,
Collins-street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, sth May, at noon. . .
5 The Shareholders will be called on to elect lwo Directors on that occasion in lieu of Sir
William Austin Zeal K.C.M.G., and the Honorable Joseph Major Pratt, who retire by rotation.
There are no other candidates. They will also be required to appoint Two Auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors,
JOPIN G. ADDISON,
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Head Office : Melbourne, 22nd April, 1909.
Chief Manager.
BALANCE
Dr.
SHEET of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1909.
ITneludinsr London Office to 27th February, 1909, and Western Australian Branches to
U n loth March, 1909.)
Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To proprietors’ capital—
-30,5 7 8 preference
shares paid in
money to £lO per
share, £305,780;
238,488 ordinary
shares paid up
£5 per sha r e,
£1,192,440..
Reserve fund ac-
count
Profit, and loss ac-
count
Notes in circulation
Bills in circulation..
Government De-
posits—Not bear-
ing interest,
£90,266 5/2 ; bear-
in g interest,
£453,686 6/9
Other deposits —
Not bearing inter-
est, £3,242,540 6/4 ;
bearing' interest,
£4,688,891 2/10 ..
Interest accrued and
rebate on current
bills
Balances due to other
banks
£1,498,220 0 0
180,000 0 0
67,430 5 4
£1,745,650
309,529 10 0
867,159 8 0
543,952 11 11
7,931,431 9 2
84,216 9 0
84,460 10 3
5
4
£9,820,749 18 4
ASSETS.
528,648 14 9
By coin, bullion and
cash at bankers .. £1,794,263 311
Government, muni-
cipal and other
public stocks, de-
bentures and funds
Bills and remittances
in transitu
Notes and bills of
other banks
Balances due from
other banks
Duty stamps
1,225,465 7 0
14,933 0 1
62,365
4,139
£3,629,814 16 10
Keal estate, consisting- of bank pre-
mises at present book values
Other real estate at valuation
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts 7,445,054 6
431,182 11
57,348 9
Contingent liability,
as per contra, £253,932 15/4.
£11,566,400 3 8
Liability, in the form of a guarantee
of certain shire and municipal de-
bentures (Victoria) sold in London,
and which are being duly provided
for by sinking funds, in terms of the
Act authorising their issue, £91,100 ;
and liabilities of customers and
others on letters of credit and
drafts, £162,832 15/4, as per contra,
£253,932 15/4.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at head office, 137 branches,
and 25 agencies •• •• •• ..,£70,413 5 4
Note and income taxes .. .. .. 5,798 18 9
Balance.. - 67,430 5 4
£143,642 9 5
By Balance brought forward .. .. .. £6,259 10 4
Gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid
and accrued on deposits, repairs to
premises, and rent.. .. .. .. 137,382 19 1
£143,642 9 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
Balance .. .. .. .. ..£lBO,OOO 0 0
J: 180,000 0 0
S to
alance last half-year .. .. ..£170,000 0 0
ransfer from profit and loss .. .. 10,000 0 0
£lBO,OOO 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and declarations of the Directors, to comply with the Com-
panies Act 1896 appear on the Official Report.
QUEENSLAND
The Queen State of
the Commonwealth.
WONDERFUL WONDAI LAND,
WHEN you buy a farm, what do you look for? We take it that you
want well-watered land, rich and fertile, producing abundant crops
of maize, potatoss, lucerne aid fattening grasses ; that
you wish to be near a railway, that you require long terms and land at low
prices without survey or residential conditions, with a good rainfall and well
watered. You will, therefore, be exactly suited by acquiring a farm on
“Moiuhtre” Estate, Wondai —Kingaroy District, Queensland.
We are now subdividing this fine property of 21,000 acres into areas to suit
purchasers. The average rainfall is 31 inches. A permanent creek runs
right through the property, and water may be had at shallow depths in any part.
This Estate has for many years enjoyed a great reputation as
first-class fattening, agricultural and dairying country. Lucerne,
maize, paspalum, potatoes, and rich fattening grasses are produced there in
abundance.
“ MONDURE ” is only 4 miles from Murgon Railway Station,
6 miles from Wondai Railway, and 19 miles from Ivingaroy. Terms are
one-fifth cash, balance up to 10 years at 5 per cent. Write us for
particulars promptly.
WEAVER 8 GLASSON LIMITED, 289 Queen Street (next G.P.0.), BRISBANE.
«A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “Th<
Bulletin ” Office


The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
The Thirty-Second Report of the Directors of The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited,
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Thirty-Second Ordinary General Meeting 1 ,
to be held at the Bank, 126 Rlizabeth-street; at noon, on Thursday, 29th April, 1909.
REPORT.
-THE DIRECTORS bejr to submit to the Shareholders their Thirty-Second Report, with a Balance-Sheet and State-
-1 ment of Profit and Loss for tne half-year ended 31st March, 1909, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current, tax on note
circulation, income tax, and making provision for bad and doubtful debts, the net profit amounted to £23 710 4 4
Brought forward from 30th September, 1908 1 208 4 5
£24,918 8 9
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz. :—
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on preference shares.. £lO 641 10 9
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares .. ". . . . " . . 4 733 5 6
To Reserve Fund (making it £130,000) ' .. *' ” " ' s’ooo 0 0
To Officers’Provident Fund ” 1 000 0 0
Balance carried forward ’ ’ ” " ’ ’ 3’543 12 6
£24,918_ 8 9
The Officers’ Guarantee and Provident Funds, referred to in last Report, have been formed, and rules have been
drawn up under which officers contribute iHinually a percentage of 3£ per cent, of their salaries (3 per cent to the
clnnJr ent .^ und and * P er oenfc - t 0 the Guarantee Fund). The Directors have set aside out of the half-year’s profits
£lOOO in aid of the Provident Fund.
During the half-year Branches of the Bank were opened at Mortlake and Noradjuha
advice 6 Dlvidend wiU be P a^able at the Head office 011 and after the 30th inst., and at the Branches on receipt of
1M Thirty-Second Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of the Company
126 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 29th day of April, 1909, at noon.
~ ... By order of the Board,
elbourne, 20th April, 1909. W. a. GIBSON, Acting General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
Dr • FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1909. Cr.
To capital Paid-up, viz.:—
31,184 preference shares
. paid in cash to £9/15/- £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £l/15/- 135,236 10 0
To Reserve Fund
To profit and loss
To notes in circulation
To hills in circulation
•''To Government Deposits—
Not beai-ing interest,
£38,766/15/6; bearing’
interest, £253,975/10/4 292,742 5 10
To Other Deposits— Re-
bate and interest ac-
crued—
Not bearing interest,
£1,161,029/10/1; bear-
inginterest, £1,767,337
5/5 2,928,366 15 6
To contingent liabilities, as per contra ..
£439,280 10 0
130,000 0 0
19,918 8 9
121,639 0 0
45,061 12 4
3,221,109 1 4
174,452 4 5
By coin and bullion and
cash at bankers.. ..£623,900 1 2
By British Oonsols,
£70,668/15/2, at £B2 per
cent., £57,948/7/6; by
Victorian Government
stock, Metropolitan
Board of Works, and
niunicipaldebentures,at
valuation, £70,926/0/3 .. £128,874 7 9
By bills and remittances
in transitu .. .. 391,587 1 5
By notes of other bank- . 1,242 0 0
By balances due from
other banks .. .. 24,841 14 2
By stamps 1.161 7 9
£1,171,666 12 3
By Real Estate, consisting- of—
Bank premises, at c., tto new bank .. 201,115 13 4
Other real estate, at valuation .. .. 39,287 2 6
By bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad or doubt-
ful debts 2,564,939 4 4
By liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as per
contra 174,452 4 5
£4,151,460 16 10
£4,151,460 16 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To current expenses (including' salaries
rents, repairs, stationery, etc.) ..
To bank note tax
To transfer to reserve fund .. " "
To balance
£28,514 17 0
1,187 4 9
5,000 0 0
19,918 8 9
£54,620 10 6
By balance brought forward
By gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued 'On de-
posits, rebate on bills current, and
making provision for income-tax and
bad and doubtful debts
£1,208 4 5
53,412 6 l
£54,620 10 6
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance .. ..£130,000 0 0
£130,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward £125,000 0 0
~ Transfer from profit and loss .. .. s’ooo 0 0
£130,000 0 0
The Royal Bank Australia
HEAD OFFICE: MELB&URNE, VICTORIA. LIMITED
♦
FORTY-SECOND REPORT, presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 30th April, 1909.
"THE Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement of
1 Accounts for the half-year ending 31st March, duly audited and certified. cement of
The net profits (including £4155 7s. Bd. brought from last half-year) amount to £22 158 5 2
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.: — ’
To pay a dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum £lO 062 10 0
To transfer to the Reserve Fund (making it £115,000) ’ ’ o 0
And to carry forward the balance ...................... 4 595 15 2
During the half-year the instalments on the 100,000 new shares referred to in last reportTave 8 ail been paid up
and the capital now stands at £300,000, while the premium on the issue, viz., £12,500, has been placed to the Reserve
lund, which, with the addition proposed above, will amount to the substantial sum of £ll5 000 The additional
capital has been fully and profitably employed in the ordinary business of the Bank uonai
The temporary premises at Bendigo having proved inadequate for the requirements of the growing business
arrangements were made for a new and commodious building on a first-class site, and the greater prominence thereby
given to the Bank is likely to have a beneficial effect on our business in that centre ° " cnereDy
Shareholders are reminded that it is in their power to greatly assist the Bank by introducing new accounts
deposits, etc., and the Directors trust that their services in this direction, which have proved so useful in the past’
may be continued with equally good effect in the future. F past,
By order of the Board,
II. T. WILSON, General Manager.
BALANCE .SHEET 0/ THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA Limited
Dr - FUR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1909. Cr. ’
CAPITAL and LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 shares of £4
each £2,400,000 0 0
Capital subscribed. ..£1,200,000 0 0
Capital paid up £300,000 0 0
Reserve fund 107,500 0 0
Profit and loss account 22,158 5 2
£429,658 5 2
Notes in circulation 14*121 0 0
Bills in circulation 35*884 18 5
Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest.. .£52.340 9 5
Bearing- interest 129,514 4 4
Other Deposits—Rebate and interest
accrued —
Not bearing interest..£4l6,B74 0 5
Bearing interest 684,010 6 9
1,100,884 7 2
Balances due to other Banks 420 2 6
£1,762,823 7 0
Contingent liabilities as per contra... 453,963 0 0
£2,216,786 7 0
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion, and cash
afc bankers £220,189 10
Notes and bills of other
bank s 351 18
Balances due from other
bank s 14,392 li
Bills and remittances in
transit, and payable in
London 328,172 0
Government, municipal
and other public stocks,
debentures and funds 2,630 0
Stamps .. 541 11
It* J- • • ■vdUUjOf I AX 4
Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises 55>0 00 0 0
Other real estate at cost to bank 9,068 13 8
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts 1 139 257 2 0
Bank furniture, fittings, stationery,
etc 2,220 0 0
r- 1 . *• ■. J £1,762,823 7 0
.Liabilities and securities of customers
and others in respect of contingent
liabilities, as per contra 453,963 0 0
£2,216,786 7 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, rent, and other charges.
Balance
£7,290 19 5
22.15 S 5 2
£29,449 4 7
.£18,949 16 8
0
0
0
- 14,794 9 0
Balance carried down 4,155 7 8
Profits for the half-year, after deducting 1
interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current, less reserves for bad
and doubtful debuts 25,293 16 11
By Balance at 30th September, 1908
Less dividend, declared 30th
October, 1908 £7,000 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund... 7,500 0
Balance bank premises alter-
ation account 294 9
£29,449 4 7
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance.
£107,500 0 0
£107,500 0 0
By Balance at 30th September, 1908 £87,500 0 0
Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 7,500 o 0
Premium on new issue of shares 12,500 0 0
£107,500 0 0
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE.
Forty-Third Annual Report of the Directors to the Shareholders.
The Directors* have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of Shareholders the
Balance-sheet of the Bank, as on 29th March, 1909 ; also Statements of Profit and Loss Account, and
the Reserve Fund on that date.
The balance to credit of Profit and Loss is ... ... ... £55,707 15 6
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows :
To Reserve Fund (making it £325,000) £20,000
Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum 20.000
_ . , 40,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of £15,707 15 G
to be carried forward.
An Interim Dividend at the rate of 9 per cent, per annum was paid in November last.
During the year from 31st March last a Branch has been opened at Loxton, on the River Murray,
and Agencies at Lochiel and Warooka, and the Branch at Tarcoola closed.
At a Special General Meeting held on 6th May, 1908, the Shareholders authorised the Directors
to apply £30,000 of the Bank’s funds towards the formation of a Provident Fund for the benefit of the
Officers. 1 his has been done ; £20,000 of the amount having been supplied from funds accumulated
m the Bank s internal guarantee fund for the fidelity of Officers, and £lO,OOO withdrawn from Profit
and Loss Account.
f ll ib £lO,OOO has also been withdrawn from Profit and Loss Account and applied in reduction
of Bank Premises Account.
-The General Annual Meeting will be held at No. 25 Waymouth Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday,
oth May, 1909, at 11 o clock a.m., at which the Shareholders’will be called upon to elect Two Directors
in place of Alexander George Downer, Esq., and Arthur Waterhouse, Esq., who retire by rotation,
but are eligible for re-election, and offer themselves accordingly. The Shareholders will also have to
elect Two Auditors for the ensuing year, and fix the remuneration of the retiring Auditors.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE, MARCH 29, 1909.
BALANCE SHEET.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital paid up .. ..£400,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 305,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. 55,707 15 6
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks..
Deposits
Interest Accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Discounted ..
-£760,707 15 6
195,802 0 0
441,994 18 7
5,633 13 9
3,524,813 8 7
25.714 6 4
£4,954,666 2 9
ASSETS.
By Specie, Bullion, and
Cash Balances . . £586,085 16 11
Government Debentures 724,918 11 0
Municipal Debentures 4,800 0 0
Money at Short Call 710,000 0 0
Balances due from other
Banks .. .. 145,752 4 7
Notes of other Banks 9,695 0 0
£2,181,281 12 6
Remittances in Transitu .. 1X8,689 13 0
Bank Premises and Furniture .. 81,229 19 2
Bills Receivable and all other Advances 2,573,464 18 1
£4,954,666 2 9
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM MARCH 30, 1908, TO MARCH 29, 1909.
To Reserve Fund, as below.. £20,000 0 0
Dividend in May, 1908 .. 18,000 0 0
Dividend in November,
1908 18,000 0 0
£56,000 0 0
.. 10,000 0 0
.. 10,000 0 0
.. 55,707 15 6
To Officers’ Provident Fund
To Bank Premises Account
Balance ..
£131,707 15 6
By Balance March 30, 1908 ..
Net Profit, including' Re-
coveries and after making
provision for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, Interest
Accrued on Fixed De-
posits and Rebate on
Bills Discounted, and
Expenses at Head Office
and 35 Branches, includ-
ing Salaries, Rents, etc. £78,522 11
Less Land and Income Tax,
£2281 12/3; Note Tax,
£3544 10/- 5,829 2
£59,014 6 0
9
3
- 72,693 9 6
£131,707 15 6
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this Date £305,000 0 0
£305,000 0 0
By Balance March 30, 1908 .. ..
Transfer from Profit am? Loss, May,
1908
£285,000 0 0
20,000 0 9
£305,000 0 0
JOHN SHIELS, Manager,
K. T. MAHNKE, Accountant.
A. GEO. DOWNER,
H. C. E. MUECKE,
JAMES HARVEY, > Directors.
arthur Waterhouse, |
JEN KIN COLES, J
, , We hereby certify that we have compared the above Balance-sheet with the Books and Accounts of the Bank of
Adelaide for,the Year ending March 29, 1909, that we hdve counted the cash and examined the bills. on hand at the
Head Office (the assets and liabilities at the Branches other than London being taken oh the certificates of the
Managers and Accountants of the respect’. c Branches and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London
Manager), and that it is a correct abstract of the same. ,
W. L. WARE, F.1.A.5.A., 1 .
J. S. LLOYD, F.1.A.5.A., /Auditors.
Adelaide, April 16, 1909.
m*
r
v.
3
5
/
Vr
%
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
lisrcfs in every part of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and hiah in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
397 GEORGE STREET.


King Canute, a gay old shoot,
Tried hard to stop the waves ;
The King said, “ Dash,” and made a splash,
Mid kicked six of his slaves.
But Woods so bold can stop a cold,
Wh n nothing can procure
Kelief from pain, none try in.vain,
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
>VyJ,
4 L U
11 a Jdinifo&l
V
2W’ 6 W
: yr*
FINNEY’S
NECKWEAR
Not only in Queensland is Finney’s
Neckwear famous. From all over
the States come orders for the
dainty creations made so skilfully
at The Big Block.
This is the 44 Bolivia a guipure
Gibson collar, frilled with fancy net
and with Butterfly Lace Medallion
front, in ivory or Paris, 2/11.
FINNEY, ISLES
& Co. Limited,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
The week ending April 24 was a record one
for Bananaland in the matter of land selection.
The total area taken up was 525,4G4 acres, and
comprised 23 grazing selections, 145 agricultural
selections, and 22 prickly pear selections. Most
of the grazing selections were in the Barcaldine
and Longreaclr districts; Nanango topped the
list of agricultural selections; and Dalby con-
tributed nine of the prickly pear lots.
Senator McColl, of Victoria, who went to
America as the Australian delegate to the Dry.
Farming Congress or Dry-Rot Congress or some-
thing, has written to the Queensland Minister for
Agriculture concerning an interview he had with
Luther Burbank on the subject of prickly pear.
Burbank says that the pear is a blessing, not
a curse. He has managed to grow a number
of spineless varieties of it, and reckons that
even with the spines ifc is a valuable plant.
From it he has made alcohol, both for drinking
and industrial purposes, and the fibre, he alleges,
is one of the best things he knows for making
paper. He says that the paper is too good for
ordinary work, but is just the. thing for bank
notes and similar purposes. He declares he has
brought the fruit to such a state of perfection that
no ordinary human being need turn up his nose at
it if it wereputon the table before him. Burbank
claims to have grown 100 tons of fruit on an acre.
Ostrich-farming threatens to look up. If
the experiences of ex-Surveyor Behan, of Jericho,
in Central Queensland, are a guide, there is
money in the game, even in those parts which
some people call “the desert.” Although Behan
lacked practical knowledge at the beginning of
his ostrich career, the fluffy female handed over
to him 120 eggs during the.year, and 75 of them
were fertile. A good many of the eggs perished
while still in infancy (the egg that the gods love
dies young), but 29 chicks survived and started to
lay on their own account) and from the original
parents and their children and grandchildren there
iiave already come the material for many feather
boas and innumerable Merry Widow hats.
APPENDICITIS.
When Natnrei evoluted man from the beast
there remained a useless bit of duct (some rem-
nant of a one-tiftie necessary organ) attached to
the intestine. A tiny grain of undigested matter
may find its way into this “sac,” and appendi-
citis hurries another visit to the operating table or
the grave. But Nature atones for her oversight
bv oroducing a positive preventive in the shape of
FRANZ JOSEF Natural Aperient Water. A
mild, pleasant dose before breakfast cleanses the
system, tones the stomach, stimulates the liver,
and by draining off all foreign matter from the
system, removes all danger of the dread disease.
“ Beware of manufacturing a drink out of
your prickly pear,” said the hard drinker, who
had sampled the liquors of all nations. “It’s of
the cactus breed, and there is no doubt its juice
will ferment, but it’s the most hellish fluid known
to man. I’ve seen the Malays of Gaupil Island
drink it—they call it gagus. A gagus drinker loses
the power to walk Or stand ; his bones simply
shrivel and dry up, and he withers away. Opium
and whisky are mere coffee and tea compared to
gagus. Of course, you may be able to chemically
counteract the noxious principle, but that will
raise the price of the stuff, and the cheap drunk
will still consume it in its raw state. It’s cheap
enough. It might cost a whisky drinker 10s. to
see one small snake. A gagus-fiend can see a ter-
race of boa-constrictors for 6d.”
Another inventor, Mr. A. Rigby of
Mackay, has arisen in the land. His patent
machine supplies whisky and the like on the
penny-in-the-slot plan. So the publican can first
measure the spirit contents in the morning, and
can see at a glance during the day how much has
disappeared, and then he can count up the cash
when the shades of evening fall and strike a
balance. Barmaids will not be wanted with this
automaton. It will not be welcomed by the man
with the purple blossoms on his nose, because he
cannot coax the implement to give more than the
regulation nobbier, and it will be a cold sort of an
affair .to’Arry who loves to mash Flossie Beer-
pump, and who can’t make love to a mere
machine. But it will pay the publican. Still, he
will need a mastiff on the premises to prevent the
dead-beat bolting with the whole caboodle.
AN EARLY BEGINNING.
LITTLE PAT PLUNKET : “Hav’ yez got a job ov wurrk yez c’d give to a mahn?"
COCKIE : “ Well, I dunno. Gan yer milk?"
PAT: “Milk, is it? Sure ’Us the firrst thing I iver did in me loife.”
The Courts have showered a new blessing
upon the hotel lodger in Bananaland, though he
is yet without his vote. According to a Full
Court decision, against which leave to appeal to
the High Court was refused, he can on a Sunday
take away from the hotel liquid refreshments
wherewith to quench the thirst of friends outside.
For 25 years he didn’t know this blessed fact and
his friends went dry, and he saved the expense of
shouting for them on the Day of Rust; but a
Boonah resident at last perceived the real inward-
ness of the situation and backed his opinion. The
hotel lodger is now a very popular man in hip
district.
If Premier Kidston gets his way, Banana-
land’s Dawson Valley, a province as big ns Scot-
land, will shortly be roused to life by a railway.
There are soil resources in the Dawson Valley
sufficient to keep busy all the primary producers
of Bananaland ; coal deposits enough to whirl all
the industrial wheels of the Continent; and
enough trees, unless the community is an in-
curable tree-eater, to supply' a nation. Mount
Morgan can utilise coal to the extent of 50,000
tons a year as soon as the Government is ready to
supply the article from the State mines. For
that reason the line will go through Mount Mor-
gan and down the Dee Valley, and then rush
into the centre of the new country and there raise
the industrial devil.
Walkers!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Walkers Limited, of Maryborough, completed one
desirable century, the other day, when it turned out its
hundredth locomotive made for the Bananaland Govern-
ment.—The Bulletin, S/4/’O9.
This is a ballad of Walkers, fashioned with much
applause:—
While the land was burdened with Talkers, work-
ing their facile jaws ;
Weeping at loss of their nigger ; crying to south
and north,
Walkers, with skill and vigor, were sending their
engines forth !
While Kidston and Philp were sounding tocsins of
wrath and war, \
Walkers were busy pounding the steel by the
furnace door.
Smiting with strong steam-hammers, toiling with
lathe and drill—
Walkers, amidst the clamors, stuck to their busi-
ness still.
Boring the cylinders truly, forging the throws and
shafts—
Hail, says the Creed raised newly—hail to the
hand that g afts !
Shaping toe drawbars squarely, turning the
pistons true;
Seating the slide-valves fairly—labor of brain and
thew !
Engine and linked tender, taking the tracks with
ease ;
Hail to the hands that render services such as
these !
Hail to the smith and draftsman, raising the
engines tall ;
Cheers for the faithful craftsman—cheers for the
workers all 1
Rivet and chuck and spanner—iron and brass and
steel;
These are the White Man’s banner, flag of the
Commonweal !
Planer and vice and hammer, anvil and flaming
forge—
These with their strength a-clamor have levelled
the mountain-gorge !
Binding the lands together, fastening North to
South ;
Dragging with steel-strong tether food for the
workers’ mouth !
Helping Australia forward—yea, in the blood-rod
day,
Aiding the Nation war-ward, paving the Nation’s
way !
This, then, a ballad of Walkers, I for Australia
sing ; ■
Not of the Countless Talkers flapping a ceaseless
wing !
A psalm for the craftsmen loyal, launching the
engines true —
A chant for the breed right-royal, for the name-
less foundry-crew !
Simply an anthem votive, merely a Muteship’s
call;
Hail to the Locomotive—Hail to the Builders
All !
Riveters, hammerers, caulkers—workers of each
degree—
I sing you this ballad of Walkers —a song in a
major key.
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 1, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The hitching of Geo. Love Warry, who in his
spare moments dabbles in the gentle vegetable,
and Miss Elizabeth Annie Heal, who is blessed
with many of this world’s goods, was accomplished
at All Saints’ Church on Wednesday. The event
fairly had genteel suburbia “off its ’andle.”
Wickham Terrace was blocked by a struggling
mass of curious femininity, and the bride, decked
in a cash value of about £4OO worth of clothes and
jewellery, had to be assisted through the crowd by
the stalwart arm of the law—several of it. The
blushing bridegroom had made a contract with, the
best man to the effect that the latter should nudge
him when it was time to say “I will,” and
thereby he got into a bog. For the best man,
seeing him put his foot down firmly on the bride’s
train, nudged him as a hint to move it, and he
promptly signified his willingness to take on a
wife several minutes too soon. Another nudge,
meant as a hint to stop saying “I will,” merely
prompted him to repeat his ill-timed remark, and
after that it got on his nerves, and he said it
“ good and hard ” whenever the minister paused to
take a breath. I am told that the breakfast
at £1 a head was knee-deep in joy, and the
scene at the railway station beggared descrip-
tion. (Description has so often been beggared that
once more doesn’t matter.) The enthusiasm rose
to fever heat, and the air was full of waving hand-
kerchiefs and sundries. Next day 15 clubites
lunched with wet bandages round their heads,
they having applauded till the roof of the
dome of thought felt as if it would fly off.
“‘The last thing I remember,’’ said one cheery
citizen, “was getting out of the carriage window.”
The sceneat All Saints’ was summed up by auntie’s
Washer-lady on Thursday thus : “Ah ! Miss
Amelia, it wor’ a gran’ sight ! And the crowd—
whv it took the virgin all he knew ter get the
bride inter the porch at all, at all ! ”
The tuneful Ada Crosifey has come again and
gone like a meteor in the night. Shearrived at seven
p.m. Thursday, dived intoan emerald green confec-
tion, and wended her way to the Exhibition Build-
ing at eight. There a big crowd gave* her welcome.
The performance was notable for its brightness,
and this in' spite of the fact that the co. was so
dead tired with much travelling that Percy
Grainger, of the golden locks, had to be wakened
before each of his appearances. Ada received a
rose-decked boomerang from # Mrs. Bland Holt
(who, being out of “The Bondman” cast,
was enjoying herself in a front balcony seat),
and a quantity of other vegetation. I left
Sametini pouring water on Percy to induce him to
wake and go home, the pianist having dropped
asleep again on two chairs. Lady Chelms-
ford, the John Forrest couple, Verney and his
smile, the chief Federal Justice and daughter,
Mr. .Justice O’Connor, and many other notables
were in the audience.
On Wednesday evening there was a record
Liedertafel audience to welcome back to Brisbane
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, and that graceful lady was
nigh overcome by the public enthusiasm. Her
beautiful voice is only more lovely for its tour,
and she now lets loose a dainty trill. It’s pleasing
to hear the full, round notes again. I’m game to
bet all my current liabilities that the Common-
wealth can show nothing better in the vocal line.
Our returned soprano clothed herself in a flesh-
tinted satin model from Caulet Soeurs. with won-
derful embroideries defining its d irectoire propor-
tions, and panels, sleeves and decolletage of lovely
blonde. The contributions of the society already
show the capable training of conductor Kaye.
Its work, with Dr. Beorne, M. 8., at the piano, in
a Beethoven piece, was the best thing the
orchestra has done for years.
There died on Thursday Brisbane’s first
W.C.T.U. president, Mrs. F. T. Brentnall, who,
in spite of 10 years’ invalidism, was a prominent
worker in the cold water cause. The old lady
was descended from a notable Scotch Highland
landowner with a kilt, who wielded a claymore
under the Young Pretender, and had the ancestral
shack and building lots annexed by the Crown
(which was Geo. II.) in consequence. Mrs.
Brentnall leaves two daughters. One of them —
Mrs. C. B. Harris—-is about the finest platform
orator we possess.
Hooray ! The taxi-cabs are out at last, a.nd
their smart grey and crimson fittings are the joy
and the comfort of all who climb into them. They
are the smartest things imaginable, and far nicer
than those in either London or Melbourne, which
are obscure backward places and of no account.
The Governor has been shedding his vice-regal
light upon the Kingaroy show, and narrowly
escaped a railway smash on the way down. We
really mfist not smash up your prospective pro-
perty if we can help it. Her Ex. was at the
annual display of the Needlework Guild, at the
Frank Corrie Villa, on Thursday, where 15,000
garments for the lame, halt and blind were on
view amid the tea and cake.
There’s no doubt that rinking is a levelling in-
fluence. One night recently our very smartest
staff officer went a-rolling, and when the collision
was over he found himself in the arms of the
cook who grills his flesh at the hash-shop.
Yours affectionately,
MARIG.
At Wan-ill Creek (Q.), the other day, 46
bullocks —two teams knocked into one —hauled a
queer sort of load. It consisted of a house, with
its furniture, pictures, hangings, etc., in their
usual places ; and the shift was about a mile.
During the trip, which took nearly three days, the
owner and his family lived in the house, had their
meals as usual, and slept in the usual beds the
two nights they were on the voyage.
“ Quan ” : Be the stone fish (B. 15/4/’O9).
It is common all along the Queensland coast, but is
not as plentiful in the South as in the North. One
was caught only the other day in Cabbage-tree
Creek, near Sandgate (Brisbane). It is a sluggish
sea-brute, and either hides among rocks and weeds
of the same color as itself, or buries itself in the
mud. The strong dorsal spines are each provided
with a poison sac, which is situated about the
middle of the spine. When an unfortunate bare-
footed fisherman treads upon one of these
iniquities the spines stick into his foot, and his
weight forces the poison into the wound. Fre-
quently the tips of the spines break off and remain
in the foot. The agony sometimes lasts for weeks.
The beast’s scientific name is Synanceja horrida.
He is evidently a relation to Sultan Abdul Hamid,
of Turkey. Abdul and the fish show the same
characteristics.
“ B.B.” : Once a month Townsville shakes
the dust from its eyes to watch the arrival of
immigrants from the Cold Land by the Torres
Straits steamship service. Some 400 a month are
coming to hand, and the last batch included 50
girls for domestic service. Three ships have now
arrived with immigrants, and each one has
brought an extra passenger placed aboard by the
Stork when in mid ocean. The latest arrival from
Storkland rejoices in the title of Hannah Ripping-
hum Grange Deitz.
If -usually reliable men are not pulling this
country’s leg, the mountain plum of Papua is well
worth acclimatising in Queensland, and probably
further south. The fruit is described as an inch
long, greenish-yellow in color, and wholesome
eating. The Jardine plum-apple of Albany Island
and the Cape York Peninsula is another edible
that is worth looking up. It is a stone fruit,
about the size of a small orange, with a quarter
inch of crisp pulp surrounding the kernel. The
pulp is good eating even now, and in skilful hands
might very likely be made better.


“THE POOR MAN’S CROP.”
Value of the Commonwealth corn crop £
in 1906 1,326,071
Value of the United States corn crop
in that year... ... ... ... 291,600,000
Area of land under maize crops in the Acres.
Commonwealth in 1906 ... ... 325,581
Area of the United States under maize
crops in that year... ... ... 96,737,581
Eleven American States, with an area equal to that
of Queensland produced in 1906 1,808,251,000
bushels.
Queensland in that year produced only 3,703,274
bushels.
The State of lowa, which would go into Queensland
12 times, produced 370 million bushels of maize
more than Queensland.
THERE ARE MARVELLOUS POSSIBILI-
TIES IN MAIZE.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XVIII.
FORTUNES IN MAIZE.
By J. D. Fitz Gerald.
The climate and soil of Queensland are peculiarly
suited for the cultivation of maize, and the state-
ment of that fact opens up a view of the possi-
bilities of the wealth which will yet be obtained
from the corn crop in the northern State. The
value of the Commonwealth maize crop in 1906-7
was £1,326,071, and of this large sum Queensland’s
quota was £462,922. In that year there were
139,860 acres under maize in Queensland, which
was an increase over the previous year of 26,086
A REGIE NEB’S PROSPECTS IN MAIZE AT GATTON,
SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
acres, and was the largest acreage sown with this
cereal since the settlement of the State. This
comparatively small acreage is but the germ of
the great industry that is to be. The markets of
the world invite Queenslanders to pour the
yellow grain into the holds of ships, for
in Mark-lane (again using an urban name
to express the central pivot of the world’s mar-
kets) there are minted yellow sovereigns waiting
to be exchanged for the yellow grain. And behind
the middlemen of Mark-lane there are the hungry
consumers waiting for the world’s elevators to
suck up the ripe grain from the ships’ holds
and convey it with all speed into use. As the
bloated populations of the Old World increase,
their lands do not increase proportionately. As
transport is hastened, as distance is annihilated,
as handling is cheapened and expedited, so the
position of the Queensland grower is being im-
proved and his enterprise is being encouraged.
So urgent is the need of the great populations of
the Northern Hemisphere, and so rapidly does
improvement in handling and transportation pro-
ceed, that a maize-grower in the Southern, Cen-
tral, or Northern District of Queensland is almost
as favorably situated as regards his final market
as the farmer of an English county, a German
principality, or a French department.
For maize is in demand throughout the world.
Every farmer likes maize-growing. It is an
“easy crop.” In a climate like that of North or
Central Queensland it should, when its value is
realised and its culture scientifically treated, be-
come one of the greatest, 'if not actually the
greatest, source of the State’s wealth. That this
is no exaggeration will be seen from the Ameriean
figures which will be quoted presently. In 1906-7
the maize production of the Commonwealth was
as follovys
State. Bushels.
New South Wales 5,763,000
Victoria 704,961
Queensland .. 3,703,274
It will thus be seen that, in proportion to popula-
tion, Queensland is the largest grower of maize in
the Commonwealth. With over a million and a
half of people, N.S.W. produced less than six
million bushels ; while Queensland, with a million
less people, produced nearly four million bushels.
It can confidently be predicted that within a
measurable distance of time, Queensland will be
the largest producer for home, Commonwealth
and foreign use of all the States of Australia.
We may continue on this assumption, viz., that
Queensland is destined to be the greatest pro-
THRESHING MAIZE AT LOGAN’S, FOREST HILL, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
j ;
dimer of maize in the Commonwealth. Her
destiny is fixed by her geographical position, her
climate, the qualities of her soil, and the nature of
her other primary industries. For maize-growing
is an adjunct to these industries. A few words
from the 1906-7 report of Mr. E. G. E. Seri veil,
Under-Secretary of the Queensland Department
of Agriculture and Stock, will give an idea of the
possibilities of maize farm-
ing. Writing in Septem-
ber, 1907, he says :
The area under maize fluc-
tuates in a degree that should
not be, when, in addition to
its principal use as feed for
horses, there is the great
demand in connection with
dairying. In 1896, the first
year of the decade ending in
1905, the area stood at 115,715
acres. During the two fol-
lowing years it fell to 102,835
acres, and in 1900 rose to
127,974 acres, and to 150,95 S
acres in 1904. This rise was
succeeded by a drop of 31,000
acres, to be followed by an
increase in area to 139,806
acres—the largest area in one
year, excepting 1904, since
1896. The average returns
have seemed to follow the
area under cultivation, for,
during the decade to 1905
the average for 1896 —26'49
bushels to the acre—was not
surpassed. In 1906, how-
ever, 32 45 bushels to the acre
were obtained, and it is to
be hoped that we shall not
again see a diminishing harvest
of this plant, which is valu-
able as a feed to man and
beast, and to the latter in
stalk as well as grain.
The “ easy crop ” nature
of maize, and its value
in mixed farming—which
is the bonanza of the
“small man”—are well
known in Queensland ;
but they are not realised
so keenly as they are in
Canada and the United
States. That may be
noted by the immigrant
in calculating his chances
on arrival in Queensland.
In no country in the world
is the value of maize
farming more clearly ac-
knowledged than in the
United States. If America
can be said to have a
truly national dish —or
rather two national dishes
—they are “young green corn and pumpkin pie.”
The dishes are the by-products of the one in-
dustry. For pumpkins are the fitting accompani-
ments of the corn crop. The pumpkin vines and
the corn stalks grow together on the same land.
Than young green corn, as the Americans treat it
—boiled and served with butter, pepper and salt
—there is no choicer dish. Lucullus himself
FISHER'S IMPHEE, LAKE CLARENDON, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
might have enjoyed it, and Vattel have been
proud to cook it. And the proper accompaniment
of such a gourmet’s delicacy is the pumpkin pie,
with ground ginger and delicate paste. No
wonder that there is a “great pie belt” in the
United States. But the appeal which the corn
crop makes to the farmer—and especially the
small farmer—is that it is the easiest sown and
the easiest harvested of all crops. It may be
planted in Queensland any time from July
to January. It is ready for harvesting in
about 120 days. When ripe it is plucked
like a fruit. It is easily husked, and shell-
ing is done by small machines. Two crops
a year may be grown in certain districts, in
sub-tropical scrub and coastal country. A few
more sentences from Mr. Scriven’s report will
bear transcription :
The use to which maize is
put, apart from food in its
natural state, in other coun-
tries, indicates that greater
use could be made of it here
with the consequent greater
demand. From some varieties
cornflour is manufactured.
Starch is also produced, which,
with the addition of acid,
is turned into glucose. The
stalks, besides being used
for food for stock, are used
for thatch and fuel, and pro-
duce valuable fibre, which is
spun into durable yarn.
Stalks of maize are also used
for paper-making. They also
yield a syrup from which
an excellent spirit can be dis-
tilled. The grains yield an
oil which is much used in in-
dustries.
In this State, however, not-
withstanding the many uses
to which this plant can be
put, it is practically con-
demned to but one of them
—viz., feed for stock. In the
United States of America it
is viewed with a very dif-
ferent interest, for of the
world’s production of about
3,200,000,000 bushels, that
country produces nearly three-
fourths ; in 1905 the harvest
amounted to more than
2,625,000,000 bushels, and yet
it is probable that, compara-
tively, Queensland is more
adapted to this cereal.
We may, perhaps, realise
the possibilities of maize
by a few comparisons of
the production generally.
Take these figures :
Maize Production—l9o6.
Country. Bushels.
Commonwealth of
Australia.. .. 10,172,154
Canada (one province,
Ontario, alone).. 23,988,682
United States .. 2,927,516,091
Therefore, though the
Commonwealth territory is
larger than that of the
United States, the produc-
tion of maize was 222 per
cent, greater per annum
in the latter than the former in 1906; while one pro-
vince of Canada produced more than double the
• quantity that the Commonwealth produced, not-
withstanding the suitable temperate, and tropical
climate of the latter. To show the almost in-
credible development which has gone on in this
industry in America, I take eleven of the States
of the union, which are among the biggest pro-
ducers of maize. The combined area of these 11
States is the same as Queensland, viz., 670,000
square miles. Their combined production of
maize is 1,808,251,000 bushels. Here are the
figures :
Area in Square Maize Production
State. Miles. in Bushels.
lowa 56,000 .. 373,275,000
Illinois .. ... 56.650 .. 347,169,000
Nebraska .. .. 77,510 .. 249,752,000
Missouri 69,415 .. 228,522,000
Indiana .. .. 36,350 .. 183,893,000
Ohio. 41,000 .. 141,654,000
South Dakota .. 77,650 .. 62.000,000
Wisconsin .**! .. 56,000 .. 60,000,000
Pennsylvania .. 45,215 .. 57,960,000
Michigan .. .. 55,915 .. 54,000,000
Minnesota .. .. 83,365 .. 50,000,000
Thus a State like Missouri, the territory of which
could be put into Queensland nine times comfort-
ably, and ten times with a squeeze, produces 62
times as much rnaize as Queensland ; while lowa,
which goes 12 times into Queensland, produces
370 million bushels more maize per annum, on the
1906 basis, than does our giant northern State.
That we may gather some idea of the value of
the maize industry, we turn to the annual report
of the United States Department of Agriculture,
and we find that the total production of maize in
the United States in 1906 was 2.927,416,091 bushels,
and the value £291,631.619. This immense pro-
duction —which, expressed in either dollars or
pounds sterling, appears to be a fabulous sum—
amounts in one year to a sum equal to one-third of
the National Debt of the United Kingdom. This
huge sum was earned by the cultivation of an area
of 96,737,581 acres, or approximately one-fourth the
area of Queensland. The American boasts, as I
have already quoted, that “the State of Illinois
alone produces half as much corn as is grown in
all the world outside the United States.” It is a
proud boast, and we Australians, in a young and
undeveloped country, with our rich soil and
benignant climate, may well envy our American
cousins their success in wresting from their soil
this rich plunder. Our envy, however, is not of
the gangrened sort, but rather that of emulous
ambition; for, with the advantages which we
possess, there is nothing to prevent us also win-
ning great wealth in our maize crop.
W. H. Traill, in that interesting work, “A
Queenly Colony,” expressed a strong opinion of
the value of maize as a crop suitable for the class
of small settlement which is going on in Queens-
land, and to which the immigrating classes of
Europe are invited. He quotes William
Cobbett, as showing that, in his time,
in America, “all the -hogs and pigs, all
the poultry of every sort, the greater
FIRST CROP, MAIZE AND PUMPKINS, LAKE
CLARENDON DISTRICT, SOUTH QUEENSLAND.
v 'part of the oxen, and a considerable part of the
sheep, are fattened upon corn ; it is the best feed
for horses, and when ground and dressed in
various way, it is used in bread, in puddings, and
in several other ways in families; and that, in
short, it is the real staff of life in all countries
where it is the common culture, and where the
climate is hot.”
A leading case is to hand, showing how the
pioneer of the ’sixties began his success with
maize. Mr. James Deerain, pf Bromelton,
Beaudesert, already quoted, took up land at
Bromelton, and turned his attention to maize and
potato growing, and, “about the fourth year,”
he says, “ maize was bringing a good price, and I
planted about 50 acres in a belt of scrub along
the river bank. This was all planted with the
hoe, and produced a very heavy crop—over 80
bushels to the acre.” With maize at 3s. per bushel
(its price in 190 G, and it would probably have been
much more in 1872), the settler would have
realised £6OO from his 50 acres of river frontage.
But the days of the 80-bushel yields are not over
yet. On Laidley Creek, Mr. A. Hunter has
grown 80 bushels to the acre, and Mr. P. H.
McGrath 100 bushels to the acre.
To give the intending emigrant a slight idea of
the variety of mixed farming, in connection with
which maize is an adjunct, the 1906 returns from
the railway station at Forest Hill, a comparatively
newly settled district opened to small settlers in
1886, show this :
Bales—Hay.. .. 22,047
„ Chaff .. 3,843
Bags—Chaff .. 113,994
„ Maize .. 40,137
~ Potatoes .. 2,131
~ Pumpkins.. 24,163
Bales —Broom Millet 186
Turnips (tons) .. 920
Poultry .. .. 313
Boxes—Eggs .. 736
Loose Pumpkins
(tons) .. .. 635
Pig'S 457
Cream (galls.) .. 16,289
Enough has been written to show the possi-
bilities of wealth in the golden corn harvest.
When the results of wealth development through
maize crops in the United States are taken into
consideration, we must come to the conclusion
that individual fortunes and a great advancement
of the corporate wealth lie in our taking up this
cereal in deadly earnest. Had the 1906 crop in
the United States brought the price which maize
brought in the Commonwealth, the value would
have reached the enormous total of £439,112,413,
which would have been equal to the sum required
to build 219 Dreadnoughts, allowing two millions
for each of the battleships.


GIRL A MARTYR TO
lERRIBLEJCZEMA
Began with Teething and Lasted
Twelve Years—Tried Every Imag-
inable Treatment to No Effect —
Head and Body a Mass of Humour
—Almost Mad with the Torture.
CURED IN THREE WEEKS
BY ONE SET OF CUTICURA
“My daughter, now thirteen years of
age, had been a martyr to eczema on
- ■».
r>
U^fTl
her body and head
ever since cutting her
teeth. We had a doc-
tor off and on for the
first five years and
have been trying dif-
ferent chemists from
time to time, using
many ointments, but
to no effect. We tried
'everything imaginable
and only kept hoping
that she would out-
grow it. At las t, after suffering for twelve
years, her body and head were a mass of
sores and she was almost mad with it.
Then I sent for a set of Cuticura Soap,
Cuticura Ointment, and Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills. After ten days’ use of the
Cuticura Remedies she began to get
better. In three weeks there was not a
vestige of eczema left. She only took one
vial of the Cuticura Pills and we have
some of the Soap and Ointment still.
Mrs. C. Brasier, High St., Godstone,
Surrey, Aug. 8 and 12, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura B ook on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
AWFUL ITCHING
Torturing, Disfiguring Humours
Instantly Relieved by Cuticura.
Even a single gentle application of Cuti-
cura, the great Skin Cure, preceded by
a warm bath with Cuticura Soap and fol-
lowed, when necessary, by mild doses of
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points
to a speedy cure of the agonizing itching
and burning of the skin, as in eczema;
the frightful scaling, as in psoriasis; the
loss of hair and crusting of scalp, as in
scalled head, and the awful suffering
of infants and children, as in tetter, or
salt rheum.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Depots: London. 27. Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue
de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney;
So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Capetown, etc.; U.S.A.,
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
ħ
h
VkT PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
**** themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly enjov GOOD HEALTH.
Our NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
FAT quickly, safely, and per-
manently. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawKes &, Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD."
CITTTAMtf 290 & 292 Bourke Street,
OtJIIUnU, Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
By Appointment.
CEREBOS
SALT
GUARANTEED
PURE, WHOLESOME
AND BENEFICIAL
Agents—Harrison &> Attwood, Sydney.
Glycerine and “ Benzoe ” Scaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the shin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
*• Redness ” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which; instead of soothing and softening
the skin, set bp art irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
s N Q'.YCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
cAChemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
y tr ilasia and New Zealand.
'JB
THE MOTOR MAID
KNOWS THE COMPORT
•A3MD WORTH
OP
H
Tyres
There are many Motor Tyres,
but only one Michelin. But,
after all, do the others count
for much ? Read the answer
in Michelin World Records.
SOLE AGENTS:
Barnet Class 8 Co.,
234 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY ;
226 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE;
10 McHenry Street, ADELAIDE;
Also Perth, Hobart and Brisbane.
THIN WEAK, nervous, scraggy,
mm, flat-chested, run-down
and UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If you want to add flesh, be made
plump, strong", healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRiAL SAMPLE of
“ MIRACULA ” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
m
Try this
SPECIAL
line of
DERBY
SHOE,
in Welted or
Pump Soles,
best Glac6 Kid,
with Patent
Caps and
Cuban Heels.
Price,
16/6.
Postage 9d.
extra.
If cleaned with Leeming's Gazeka Shoe Paste (6d.
per tin) the wear is guaranteed.
Send for Price Lists —Free. ’Phone 1799.
LEEMING’S SHOE STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; and
1 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
ħ
WOMEN
SUFFER More
Than MEN I
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men.
Excess fat takes away a
a woman’s loveliness —
gives her an ugly, ungainly appearance, im-
pedes her gait, interferes with her maternal
instincts, injures her general health and
makes life a burden, rather than a pleasure.
“ Fatcure”
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable, non-poisonous and harmless.
The fat, once reduced, does not return.
“Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe and
harmless treatment for Obesity. Send 2d.
stamp for FREE TRIAL Sample and full
particulars, or call if convenient. 9 till 5.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
_L Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
_ariK»
oY'
Custard iulth Spruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
SOLID GOLD WATCH PUZZLE.
GREAT OFFER BY A RESPONSIBLE FIRM.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHINC TO TRY.
To any person who can supply the correct names
of these two well-known English Towns, and
fulfils conditions below, we offer our £3 Lady’s Solid
Gold Watch, fully jewelled, English Government
stamped, as a FREE Gift. (Silver Watches
are presented to Gents.).
Send your attempt on a sheet of paper, together
with stamped addressed envelope for reply, to
FELLOWS & CO., Wholesale Watch Merchants,
Birmingham, England. The winner is required
to purchase a Chain from us to wear with Watch.
The name of this paper must be mentioned.
Prize-winners of last competition were : Miss L. 0.
McLamarara, Bartley Crescent, Wayville, S. Aus-
tralia; Mr. D. Cray, Bookabie, W. Coast, Australia.
h
QIVEN AWAV,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
r flf% the Bunch
" post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller's Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
Q.ka
MORTON 1 ’ ,
CARTRIDGES
Purposed for .22 calibre Rifle
Shooting, these British-made
cartridges are of the very finest
shootiug quality. The hollow
point bullet is recommended foi
Sporting—the long and short solid
point for rifle practice. Specify
'King's Norton” from your
Ammunition Dealef. Agents:
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOE
Coughs, Colds, \fl
Asthma, Bronchitis
Influenza, Whooping
Cough, Hoarseness, &c,
Oxbridge
£ungTonfc
The enormous Success of Owbridges
I'ung Tonic could not have been won.
■\ and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great ins
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
remedy ever known. Beware of Sub *
stitutes ; ask for “ OWBRIDGE '
w j ien buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold everywhere
in bottles at Is. lid.,
is bd., 4s. 6d.,.&lls.
coryaioHT,
CARBIDE.
For First-Class Results use Best Scandinavian
“ PERNIX ” Carbide.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
“DAD'S AND DAN."
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, 1».
TBrilishS
[flacfei
“ Melb.” : St. George’s Hall reopens, with Hoyt’s newly-
imported biograph. New York has 300 piograph shows,
so there should be room for one more in Melbourne.
Here we have West’s, Tait’s, and the Bijou every night.
Though St. George’s Hall has been closed so long, it has
been fashioned entirely according to the Board of Health
requirements, and is a fine, substantial building. The
ramshackle shops in front were demolished, with astonish-
ing revelations of yore-time building by Jerry Runemup.
St. George’s Hall has a history. Rickards made his first
Melbourne appearance there. His company was led by
Lizzie Watson, afterwards partner with Harry Braham.
Lottie, the gymnaste, will be remembered as a great furore
at St. George’s. Her pupil, Katie, afterwards became Mrs.
Rickards. When the Theatre Royal was burnt down,
early in ’72, Coppin and his company performed at St.
George’s Hall, introducing such plays as Robertson’s
“School” and “Society,” with Lena Carey, Hattie
Shepparde, Appleton, Ireland, and Greville. Coppin
gave a sort of imitation of Governor Canterbury, in
“Society,” as Lord Ptarmigant. E. C. Moore was
manager for Lottie, Frank, and Victor. Said the ram-
pant Moore one morning, “ Eighty deadheads of the
Press came into my show last night, and all the outcome
of their united efforts was three lines ! ”
“ Melb ” : Miss Daisy Belmore, the spacious and genial,
reappears in “The Girl Behind the Counter.” She will
be remembered in the last Wilson Barrett company, with
which she acted her original part of Dacia, in “ The Sign
of the Cross.” Indeed, Barrett named that lady after her.
Miss Belmore’s brother was stage manager with Edward
Terry in Australia, and will be remembered in “Sweet La-
vender.” Her father, G. Belmore, was one of the best Lon-
don comedians. He made a great hit as Steve Hargreaves,
the Softy, in “ Aurora Floyd.” When Irving first ap-
peared in “ The Bells,” the programme opened with the
farce of “My Turn Next,” in which Belmore was Taraxi-
cum Twitters. He was Sam Weller to Irving’s Jingle, in
“Pickwick.” Then he became the original Cromwell to
Irving’s Charles I. Against his own intelligent views,
Belmore had to accentuate-Cromwell into the villain.
George Rignold made Cromwell a virtuous character in
Richards’ play.
F. R. Benson, the English actor-manager who plays
hardly anything else but Shakspeare, lately revived the
seldom-seen and dubiously Shakspearian Part 11. of
“ Henry the Sixth.” He took for himself the character
of Cardinal Beaufort, who dies early. So the audience
thought it had seen the last of him ; but when he took a
call at the end, after the fine, large, realistic riot scene,
he appeared in a ragged shirt—and only then was it
realised that the enthusiastic star had been grafting hard,
and all unknown, as one of Jack Cade’s mob ! Are you
listening, J.K., andT.K., and H. 8.?
“Harrison O.” : Some recently-collected figures regard-
ing the salaries earned by (or at any rate paid to) mummers,
warblers and music-hall persons show the enormous
advance which has taken place with the advancing years
in the lucre appropriated by these fortunate individuals.
It is reported that Nell Gwynne was paid £1 per night
for breaking the collective heart of the ancient English
beaux of her day. Mrs. Siddons’ beauty and wit, com-•
bined with her histrionic ability, were valued at £5O per
night; but the explosive Sarah Bernhardt has been paid
as much as £2OO per night—this, perhaps it is unneces-
sary to mention, in the land where millions are made out
of the doubtful sausage and various potted horrors.
The nightly wage earned by he-mummers has also become
more swollen of late, in spite of keener competition and
the absence of a theatrical Wages Board. Burbage re-
ceived £3 nightly, D. Garrick £lOO, Macready £5O. and
Kemble £6O. Coming nearer to our own day, it
appears that Henry Irving generally annexed about
£l2O a night, while Coquelin’s screw' was more like £l4O.
In the last two instances the wages paid may be taken as
indicative of the histrionic worth of the respective
earners. Manipulators of musical instruments are
treated much better than of yore. Mozart, we are told,
considered himself a bloated capitalist when he succeeded
in snaring £5 for a night’s work ; nowadays the swarthy
Kubelik often gets £lBO, and the hairy Paderewski £525.
It is rumored (probably: unyeraciously) that a famous
trombone player once received £6OO for one selec-
tion —he was originally offered £3OO for four, but
one of his victims considered that this was rank
sweating, so he raised the pay and reduced the
time of work. Undoubtedly the most profitable place
at present for the person of small mentality is the
music-hall stage. Dan Leno (who was a comparatively
clever clown) received £3OO per week; at present the
facially-amusing Scawtch drunk-humorist, Harry Lauder,
is receiving just on £lOOO weekly in Uncle Ham’s country.
Little Tichhas, up to now, been compelled to exist as best
he may upon a miserable weekly dole of £5OO. Marie
Lloyd, the embonpoint intoner of risky ditties, is paid
£240 per week, and Kitty Loftus a bit more. For pos-
turing and writhing in a condition of semi-nudity for the
edification of the Cockney, Maud Allan is handed out
£3OO per week.
“Scene-shifter”: The hero of Trafalgar has frequently
been used for stage purposes. Nelson figures prominently
in the current revival of “The Mariners of England,” a
bellowdrama which W. Anderson has revived at Mel-
bourne King’s on account of the Dreadnought upheaval.
When the news of Nelson’s passing out reached England,
both Drury Lane and Covent Garden waded in to
solemnise the occasion. Old Drury had a scene showing
a bust of the admiral in the centre of the stage, and in
the background a cloth representing a sea-fight. The
principals and chorus were grouped around, and yelled a
more or less patriotic ditty, more or less out of tune.
During the years that-the locust has eaten since then,
the British admiral has frequently been resurrected for
stage purposes. There are about two score plays on the
subject. One of the best—“ Nelson, or the Life of a
Sailor—a national drama,” by Fitzball, librettist of
“ MWritana,” created a big boom at the cockney Adelphi
in 1827. Terry, an ancestor of the illustrious Ellen, was
the admiral, and all the big historical events associated
with Nelson, including the Victory scene, were worked
in. But the real hero of the piece was the famous
T. P. Cooke, who was a sailor, and fought in the
marine scuffle off Cape St. Vincent, before he took to the
boards. He played a fictitious character, the orthodox
gallant tar of the period, one Jack Stykes. Cooke was
the original William in “Black-Eyed Susan,” a piece
associated in Australia with George Rignold. Buckstone,
in after years a big comedian, was the low coined v man
in “ Nelson,” which had a big run. The most notable of
modern pieces on the subject is “ Nelson’s Enchantress,”
produced at the London Avenue in 1897. Forbes-ltobert-
son impersonated the marine hero of the Nile, and Mrs.
Pat Campbell played Lady Hamilton, whose relationship
with Nelson has furnished so much scandal. The piece
was in four acts, and had a few good situations. The
dramatic interest was weak. A tableau of “ The Death
of Nelson at Trafalgar ” at the end fetched the patriotic
public, but the piece did not run long. It was different
with “ The Mariners of England,” built on solid melo-
dramatic lines. It was produced in the same year and is
still going.
“Sr”: “ Theorbo ” (B. l/4/’O9) makes reference to the
institution of Gregorian music in Australian Catholic
churches. The suggested innovation has failed to take
on, not wholly because of the lack of a supply of Gregorian
music, but largely because the proposed chants are not
an attractive substitute for the present classical and
perhaps theatrical masses. Only one church has obeyed
Pius X.’s desire—the large Jesuit place of worship in
Richmond (Vic.). There the lady sopranos, altos, and
the rest got the sack from the choir, and small boys and
heavy men took their places. The Gregorian music pre-
sented by the new choir is successful, and the singers have
made something like a name for themselves. Other R.O.
churches stick to their old devices.
Carrie Moore’s career in her panto, engagement at
London Adelphi was very chequered. When she had put
in three or four weeks as the “principal boy,” she sud-
denly retired for the supposed purpose of going abroad
with her husband. Just as suddenly she came back —
after two or three days’ absence—and resumed work. A
while later, she suddenly dropped herself out of the cast
again on the plea of ill-health, and the panto, saw her no
more.
“The Merry Widow” iscausihg alot of trouble around
the Balkans, it being alniqst a level chance that.aggrieved .
persons from Montenegro or thereabouts will try to
break up the show. At Vienna and Constantinople,' also
in Bosnia and Croatia, it caused actual rioting.
There was a little disagreement between writer and
actor in a Melbourne city bar the otherevening. “ Well,”
said the distinguished mummer, bitterly, “if the worst
comes to the worst, I can always earn a living writing
trashy journalism.” “No,” said the pressman, “the
worst can only come to the worst while your audiences
come to see you act. ”


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklrournk Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (|)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE. ,
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
w
$
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
INT-S.-W.
fllontdepieteo.9|i|.Cfl.,Ctil.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
rHE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 ColiinS'St., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chai rrnan : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Es-q.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Hotels, &c.
IliK
George hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
snipping.
Nord D
eutscher
doyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
■' Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eiu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. ~ £2,000.000
Uncalled Capital .. £500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504.097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Brig-ht & Co.) ; J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. 0. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
1
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
May 12.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
June 9.
RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation-
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £‘l4 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 34 10 0
Pamvhlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
JJalffeft/ and Compani/. Ltd.,
\ Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
Condon.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hi chest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received ohlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
> HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
h
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district..
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., IO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending' settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being:—
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO. ( d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during are payable half-yearly.
currency of loan. (e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to on any instalment date; interest to that
31 years. date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
* situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Fig 1471
Goulds
TRIPLEX PLUNGER PUMPS
These Pumps are strong and substantial. They are
designed to be driven by belt from line shaft or from gas,
gasoline, oil 'or steam engine, or from an electric motor.
The working head is placed on the surface of the ground
and the cylinders in the well below. The frame is made
of two strong castings which carry the bearings of the
working parts and are secured together by four iron tie
rods and cross head guide. The crank shaft is of steel and
the gears machine cut. We make these pumps either with
two or three cylinders and for manual power or belt drive.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
Banking.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,488,590 12 6
Reserve Fund 1,260,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,500,000 0 0
£4,248,590 12 6
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. ... Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. .James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : F. W. Hixson, Esq. ; VV. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. It. Sayers.
Secretary : M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - <£500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
ĥ
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day.
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
| snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quaansland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongala, May 8.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairn
.S.S. Innamincka, May
S.S. Marloo, May 15.
Jiest and Cheapest Ho ate to <!o!d,Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 0 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
the: best route to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
f New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Z3T ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sj’dney.
F. H. —5.
Federal>Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.”
11,400 Tons. G. T. Deith, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY - Bth May
~ „ „ MELBOURNE - 12tl> May
„ „ ADELAIDE - 16th May
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining- room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
Liverpool' 1 \ £49 10s - £ 1313 - £1515s - £1717s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McIiACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
SfOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
j Price 2/(5. Postage, N.S.-W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.


JERDAN’S
“Home” Battery
FOR THE BUSINESS MAN.
After a hard day’s work in the Office, ex-
pending the whole of his energy, mind and
body on business, nothing would so revive and
brace up a man as a turn at
Jerdan’s “Home" Battery.
It has a wonderful effect on the whole
system, steadies the nerves, slackens the
tension of the brain, and dispels the worn-out
feeling.
No business man should be without a
“ Home” Battery—its simple working, perfect
mechanism, and absolute genuineness make it
invaluable. Good for all troubles such as
Sciatica, Lumbago, Rheumatism, etc.
Price 355. post free.
Our Free Booklet describes it thoroughly.
Call or write for it NOW.
I If Vtw N°4 HOME.
| | MEDICAL APPARATUS
i I VVITH DRY BATTERY
fit-
<S>
<Li>
m
mm
■ I
.
JORDAN’S
393
(formerly Osborn & Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
GEORGE STREET, EOT It™?EL, SYDNEY.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise § Joke Novelties.
The
“ Oval ”
Puzzle
Match Box.
ħ
The Latest Puzzle Match Box on the market.
Strongly and neatly made, nickel-plated, and handy
size for vest pocket. A great joke on cadgers who,
upon asking for a match, are handed this tricky
little box, which they struggle in vain to open.
Quite easy to open when you are in the know, lull
directions enclosed. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Joker’s Indiarubber Snake.
One of our most successful surprise novelties. Folds
up in a very small space, and can be held in a closed
hand without being noticed. Springs out of the
hand in a most natural way. Made of indiarubber,
and is absolutely unbreakable. Causes heaps of
amusement. Price 113 post free anywhere.
E)6c
t
U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
wate h men, and
others. Ca n b e
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is Strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY, Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No, 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch: 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES’ PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage, 2£d.).
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
m
i
h
A luxurious shave
will await you every
morning- if you get
one of these high
quality
MAXIM
RAZORS.
The blades are Jin.,
fin., or sin. deep,
with round, square,
or Irish points, and
-every razor is sold
under an absolute
guarantee of satis-
faction, or your
mone y refunded.
You can easily pay
a higher price, but
you cannot get a
better razor. Post
free to any part of
Australasia for
6s. 6d.
Sole Agent for
Maxim Razors :
'147-49 Elizabeth SK,
Melbourne
THE CHAMPION DANCER OF THE WORLD
IT IMI NIMBLEFO OTI
Only 1/3 Complete
including delivery
to any address.
Si*e?
14 in».
bigh.
n
PERFORMS
JIGS. HORNPIPES.
REELS,
STEP DANCES,
FLIP FLAPS and
BREAKDOWNS
PERFECT TIME
Wonderful Agility.
Marvellous Heel and
Toe Work.
t
[a big toy at a small price!
OU have only to beat time for any kind of Step Dance and Tim
Nimblefoot will “shake his legs” in the most amazing way.
You never saw hner dancing in your life. T,he most perfect time
is preserved and the endless variety to “steps'* Tim performs is sur*
prising and tar excels the best efforts of the most expert professional
dancers. Everybody admires Tun Nimblefoot’s remarkable agility and
grace. This clever toy is an unfailing source of amusement for old and
young, grave and gay. it is very strongly made of wood and there is
nothing about it to get out of order, even with the roughest handling.
You should send for one and enjoy some real fun. Obtainable only from
The Union Company, 299 m l e z l a b b ou h rne? eet '
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Hessrs. Sayers, Aiiport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney
Prepared b' I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist;
25. HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
=<
&
-V
/// w x
RUGS!
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to-date method. No shock, no burning or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£5OO REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold hy us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit JSSOO to anyone proving
the contrary.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Rack, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down. , . .
ĥ
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
ħ
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
bseph r, cosconAH OFFIOE HOURS : 9 a.m. to 5.50 pm.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name.
Address
HEAENES t,,\ ms
The Famous Remedy for
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid'relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the 1 hroat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 26; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


I When Mosquitoes annoy you
S remember how useful, either for pre-
> venting.the attack of these and other
r insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
7 bites, so many people have found
! Calvert’s
| 20 % Carbolic Soap.
| It is also pleasant and refreshing for
) bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
) against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
(Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng,
A f^kf4tu4uUr >
& sohn,
A. Q.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England. France, Russia, Spain and
America.
h
REFLEX
Cameras
5 SIZES.
£ x 2$ inch.
24 x inch.
4j x 3£ (J-plate).
fii x 4J (X-plate).
lj x 4£ inoh.
WITH FOCAL PLANE SHUTTER.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 CEO3ICE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, eto.), pose free. I 2
THE BALLET GIRL
ĥ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fl 00, Is.
The Lite, Adventures
and Concessions oi a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, Is.
Sent i Stamp for llliisintletl I Am* or Books ami Sovelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
COLORED ROST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston — 1 ‘ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, (id. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
TT AC! WAUrr l V nr*n T ° n security or Freehold or Leasehold
nil') IVlUlVij X JjHniUJLF City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and fc.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
Of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Rills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or Nfew Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying:
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.E.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. Janies Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F. E. Winohoombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. l airfax. Esn. General .Manager arid Actuary : Richard Teece, F.T.A.. F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Yes, dear* but you should have asked for the—
L*O*U*PS Velveteen
The chiffon vel=duvet
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well)
you shoiild just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON'T FORGET To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout, the Colonies »
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
ħ
m
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
" r HE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . ;
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home —
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George St reet. Sydney
PLASMO
REGiInSJt IBftßr
Do Yota Drink Cocoa!
There is no Cocoa more delicious than
PLASMON COCOA
. . . and . . .
11 It is ten times more nutritious than ordinary cocoa.”— Lancet .
PLASMOIM is USED by the ROYAL FAMILY.
Of all Grocers, Stores, Chemists, etc.
PLASMONj LTD.) LONOON> Australian Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack St., SYDNEY.
>»))
m
l}} luil
N.
AJ
N
K, '-‘J
X
• -f CA
•> •-
%
: -»-n i y
if
Tw
*
/
THE LEADERS
“I.H.CGasolene Engines and (< Wolseley ,f
Shearing Machines are both “Leaders' * in their
respective lines.
Far more of each are sold than of any
competing machines.
Both machines ALWAYS give their users
the highest satisfaction.
n
or
We have made arrangements whereby we can
offer a Shearing Outfit, consisting of a 2 H.P.
stands of “Wolseley” Shears with grinder and all
very low sum of £92-1 0-0 cash, or at £lOO on
ne Third each, cash on delivery, 12, and 24 months,
om Sydney or Brisbane,
grtionately Low Prices and Easy Terms.
The best opportunity ever offered
of securing a THOROUGHLY
FIRST-CLASS Shearing Outfit at
Rock Bottom Prices.
Send now for our post free
<pamphlet giving full particu -
of this remarkable offer
icrtteoH^s—ef
iplied.
Ext
HARVEST
COMPANY O}
AMERICA
(.Incorporated )
200 Roma Street,
Brisbane.
37 Broadway,
Sydney.
(257)
o*=-
wEfJ {
&
? A\^.
‘W
&
#
f
h
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with tthose elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s hood is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
A Melbourne “business man” is at pre-
sent doing a certain amount of hard thinking
while his wife wears an old bonnet and a contrite
frame of mind. Recently he found that letters
from his country customers, allegedly containing
postal notes and other moneys, were coming to
hand empty, whereupon he fulminated a tremen-
dous charge of larceny combined with laX super-
vision, and heaved it at the Postal Department,
along with a demand that the swindle cease
forthwith. Before arresting the whole staff, the
Department’s *tec inquired round, and learned
that the man’s wife was in the habit of paying for
household goods with country postal notes. So
he straightly charged her with opening her hus-
band’s letters unbeknownst. When the tears had
ceased, a disillusioned business Uian sadly owhed
up that he had been too hasty, artd that there
were more Unreliable persons than postal officials
who had the handling of letters.
“0.K,” Writes :
Melbourne is not deeply impressed by the Sydney
“ Society of Artists” show at the Guild Hall in SwanstoH-
street. The paintings by Syd Long, Douglas Pry, Julian
and Howard Ashton, Misses Alice Musket, Florence Rod-
way and others make no special appeal to a community
which takes little interest in the work of its best local
artists. In the figure paintings just how on view there
is the same lack of charm for the common eye that is
commonly remarked at a Vie. artists’ exhibition. The
faces are not pretty or strikingly natural, the coloring is
unbeautiful, faults of drawing obtrude themselves
—they don’t have to be looked for. There
are no fascinating merits in the pictures to
distract attention from their demerits. They are
works of art, but the effect seems hardly worth
the art and lahor of producing them. Among die land-
scapes there are some pleasing, clever compositions, and
Lionel Lindsay’s presentment of Sydney Harbor from
North Shore heights takes one’s fancy, the more particu-
larly because there isn’t much harbor in it. When there
is a great deal of it in a modern Australian painting the
influence of Arthur Streeton is apt to control the water-
scape, and one is asked to suppose that the Beautiful
Harbor is full of bright, blue paint. The black-and-white
exhibits of Norman Lindsay form the only remarkable
section of the show. Here there is force in general
and power in detail. Lindsay's repeated medleys of human
forms—well drawn or otherwise—keep the eye and the
mind so interested that the surface effect of monotony is
easily overlooked or underlooked. B sides, the allegorical
pictures are not always overloaded witli figures. “The
Conquering God,” for instance, is attract ivein all respects.
Of the smaller drawings, illustrating “ Idylls of the
King” or “Rabelais,” the best, perhaps, is that of
Lancelot making his first appearance at Arthur’s Court,
where Mrs. Arthur is evidently marking the Julius Knight
for prey.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.^S.W.
S ’he LEADING
HOUSE
CAN’T
B
BEAT
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from Our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
Best Selected Silßworm Gtit. Hand Polished
The “ RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
<• We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable
Eeo-ular, 12in, 9d. ; Padron No. 2,14 in., lid. ; Padron No. 1,17 in., Is 6d ; Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 6d ;
° Marana No. 1,14 in., 4s : Imperial No. 2, 12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
No. i2SC.-Spari*oW Catch ars’ Nets, fitted complete with ropes, pegs & sticks-
Clap or Ground Nets—
-5 x 12, with ropes, pegs and sticks, 22/,i each
5 x 15, do. do. 27/6 ea.
5x20, do. do,-32/6 ea,
5 x 25, do. do. 40/- ea.
5 x 30, do. do. 43/6 ea.
No. 13BF— Bat Foldng Sparrow
Catchers’ Nets, tor night use,
fitted in long handles ; - size
of net,'6 x O feet, 80% each. ;• :
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
-
Bridles
N'S
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. NedJDonnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window TicEkt Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
CußE,lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illns., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is (id. History of tiie Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Houses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of yuEEN Elizabeth, lstid.
ĥ
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River,- 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date., Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language* athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
‘ cloth-covered edition of ;this great work. It will be posted to
I ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fauden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
IMo Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. hstctblinhcd %5 1 all's.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sapimio, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s Od posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
lS
ħ
| BRIARS do not
BURNorCRACK
Wholesale Depot for
• Australasia •
231 ClarervceSt.Sydrvey
h
1
MIE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series. IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Ki
fWrawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written jruarautee for
fiv’’
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WK MAKK A START BY GIVING AWAY
530 PREE MACHINES. - •T' '
We will send one of these Phonographs FRFIE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering thisadvertisement. who will
! promise to give a Practical Demonst at on Tof i; - onderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, usimg; our new 1 and p pn ar
“””“ recor is and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pav on the machine after you receive it. Wecllaim that this is the only
r liable machine on the market,-backed up bv a 5-year guarantee by th? - akers, and a written
g aramee is sent with everv machine we giveaway. We invite all who Wish for one of these
machines to ma« anplicit on at once, and enclose a stamped addressed'envelope, so that we
niav advise when the case containing Phonograph will he sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entiiely and ausolutel
free.
Write at once to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Onn. C.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A' superb library vplume, handsomely printed
arid bound ; containing upwards of 1 liree hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s. 1 •
ĥ
Nikoteon Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OIHtR INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refilled extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; l;ng-esiublished, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on hi vine NIKOTBEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take
For sale by seedsmen.florists, country chem-
ists. storeke* pers. and by E. I>. MORRISON,
Proprietor. 39 Hunter-strjeet. * tdney. ...
Sample bottles and full particulars Jbjf poet.
Is# 4d. (stampsj to make 5 gallons spray.
auno WWHISV
RRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES 1
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppreasiou immediately
relieved by GIiiMAULT A Co’s INDIAN CIUAK-
J ;;TF.fl An d hv aJI Chemist*.
L h i Britisl)'JHstralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
POST FKEE, £1 per year,
♦ in advance, alt over the world.
Australians visiting' London are cordially
invited to visit the Heading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Biutish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
'■A, . ' , /
rfIHE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
' |_ .in magazine form. It‘s the finest, shilling’s
worth the' Australian can buy for home eonsunip
li tion-, or' for sending abroad to answer detractors
l of our grbat Counnonwealth. / • 1


Moor Workers
I
FIND ZAM-BUK INVALUABLE.
I
OUTDOOR workers generally have skin-trouble of one kind or another.
Perhaps the skin gets hard and cracks most painfully; or it may be
that the cold or dirt gets into some trivial injury, inflammation and
disease almost certainly following. Cold-
sores round the mouth and nostrils are
also common, and so are rough and
chapped hands. Zam-Buk Balm is
equally soothing, healing and curative
for all such conditions of the skin, and
is consequently a real boon. This pure
and powerful balm takes the “smart”
out, kills pain, “cools” inflammation,
and allays itching. Continued use of
Zam-Buk Balm ensures perfect healing with new
healthy skin. Every outdoor worker should carry
a pot in his pocket or tool bag.
“No home, and especially those of working-men,
should be without a pot of Zam-Buk,” says Mr. G.
j Ritchie, of O’Sullivan Street, Wood End Pocket,
Ipswich, Q. “My occupation of pipe-fixing necessitates
climbing ladders, and recently I had a nasty fall through
the ladder slipping from beneath, resulting in a wound
two inches long on my leg. It became swollen and was
very painful, but knowing already the value of Zam-
Buk, as soon as I arrived home I bathed my leg and applied the balm,
and the very next morning the pain had all gone, and in a little
while the swelling went down and the wound disappeared. I was soon
at work again, which, for a man of my age, sixty-four, is very gratifying,
and shows how quickly and well Zam-Buk did its work. There is no doubt
Zam-Buk is the working-man’s friend.”
Zam-Buk Balm is the natural and ideal application for
pimples, rashes, eruptions, blotches, spots, sores, wounds,
ulcers, eczema, psoriasis, ringworm, scalp diseases, piles, etc.
Keep a pot handy for cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, sprains,
pains, swellings, chafings, sore feet or hands, etc. Of
all chemists and stores at Is. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per pot
(3s. 6d. size contains nearly four times the Is. 6d.).
jjii
lass
sw
iff,
•;8
RU B
IT
IN
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question* of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion* If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
Matchless for the Coiwplexioß.
Wedding Bells.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GINGER MICK was spliced to-day,
Spliced to Lady Sue ;
Murphy gave the bride away
Down in Waterloo ;
Beauties came by ’bus and car,
Shouting, with delight:
“ What’s the matter with Ginger na-ar ?
“ He’s—all—right! ”
Scarlet-stockinged prettiness
In a yellow skirt;
Even in her wedding-dress
Lady Sue could flirt !
She’d a sweet engagement ring
(Brummagem and glass),
And around her neck a string
Of bead-pearls and brass.
Murphy stood the wedding spread
At the “ Bull and Bush ” ;
Half-a-dozen pots a-head
Settled half the push ;
Some have suffered a relapse,
Sprawling on the floor,
Shouting lurid songs—perhaps
There’s a fight in store.
Murphy swilling whisky neat,
Revelled in the fun ;
Lady Sue, swung off her feet,
Danced with everyone—
Romped the lancers, turn about,
Spun tile wildest whirls.
Till her flimsy skirt stuck out
Like a ballet-girl’s.
Pickle Town is full of beer,
Trebling every beat,
Scores of Johns are swarming here,
Lest the pushes meet;
•lesson’s Village push is out,
Prowling for a fight. . . .
“Ph wat’s the dashed old row about ?”
“It’s—all—right !”
Beauties romping through the streets,
Careless of their sins.
Pelt the Johns along the beats
With banana skins ;
Some nave gone to “ nark ” the Chows,
Yelling like the rest,
Some have had a cotton blouse
Ripped across the breast.
Ginger Mick was spliced to-day,
Spliced to Lady Sue ;
There’s the deuce and all to pay
Down in Waterloo ;
Other people, other views
Cupid hits as soon ;
What's the matter with Perouse
For the honeymoon?
N.s.w.
W. M. WHITNEY.
In the City Beyond the Range.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS the mail “ coach ” vanished in dust
and haze down the long vista of the pine
scrub the ni ither sat down under the big
box tree to read Julia's letter. She was feeling a
little worried about her girl, who, a year before,
had gone to take “ a place ” in “ the City beyond
the Range,” as they around Old Junee styled
Sydney. She had done it for the purpose of help-
ing to pay off the arrears on the stripper harvester
which the old man had bought on time-payment.
And by that simple act Julia had risen to be a
monument in the district, a bright and glorious
example which the other daughters of the district
were told to gaze upon and admire.
Julia had secured a place in what she termed
“ the home of some real toffs ” at Darling Point,
wages 12s. 61. per week, paid fortnightly. The
first month she only managed to send along a
solitary 10s. ; but after that she sent £l,per fort-
night regularly. Being asked how she dressed,
she replied that the tips and extras gave her
plenty of pocket money and dress funds. So the
family put the £1 per fortnight into the harvester
fund and was satisfied.
The first haze of doubt arose when George
P. Wardell, assistant forester, returned from
Sydney and raved over a life-size portrait of Julia
that he had seen in some great exhibition of pic-
tures. The mother was conversant with the
gilded vice of “ Ouida,” Marie Corelli and Miss
Braddon, and in the depths of her knowledge of
the world she kept from the old man the awful
news that Julia had taken to having her picture
“took.”
Then her letters suddenly stopped, though two
envelopes had come to hand within a fortnight,
each containing a money-order for £5. And when
the aged parent sat down under the box tree to
read Julia’s latest communication, she hoped that
it would not only contain money but some par-
ticulars as to how the girl was getting such
affluence.
But the letter contained no money, and was
brief and exceedingly to the point.
Dere mother. —M.v heart is broke, coming home on
thursday. send Corrigan with big wagonete, tonss of
boxes. youre poor girl
JULIA.
Fear, consternation and general dilapidation
fell upon Mrs. Warringdon. It was bad enough
for Julia to be getting big sums of money in the
city, but to come home broken-hearted and drag
them all in the dust was terrible. And the old
woman rocked herself in her agony as she thought
of how they had boasted of “ Juliar’s” wonderful
qualities and her thrift and industry. It was
awful. She felt that she would have given the
world to have told her husband now about the life-
sized portrait in the picture show. But after a
while shb concluded she had done everything for
the best. It wasn’t for her to speak evil of Julia
to her father —he would only have snorted and
said he didn’t believe a word of it.
* * * *
If the news of her impending approach had
broken up the family, it was nothing to the effect
that her appearance in the flesh produced on the
mother and two sons when she drove up along-
side Corrigan.
Corrigan was no prude, but his scandalised
countenance showed plainly what he thought.
He kept his eyes straight in front of him. And
when the gorgeous sunshade suddenly closed up,
and Julia stood revealed, out-dazzling Solomon
wnen he had them all on, the aged mother gave
vie yelp of dismay and horror and fled inside.
Also the two boys turned suddenly a ferocious red
and disappeared round the corner of the house
with something that sounded like oaths.
Corrigan affected not to have seen anything.
But he wondered if, after such a reception. Julia
would stay, and he waited to see if she would give
any instructions.
She let herself down from the box, and, shaking
out her manifold and luxurious draperies, stepped
on to the verandah. There she thought hard for
a moment, and then dived into the recesses of her
handbag and drew out a chain-purse.
“How much, Mr. Corrigan?” she demanded
huskily.
“Mr. Warringdon engiged me, so I s’pose he’ll
settle,” said Corrigan coldly.
“No,” said Julia, “I’ll pay me own bills.
Whoever engiged yo’did it as me agent, so just
say what’s the damage. An’ as you seem to have
bin uncomfortable all the time, p’raps yo’d better
say somethin’ extra for personal what-you-may-
call-it.”
Corrigan blushed. He was sorry he had been
cold. He felt that Julia was being treated too
roughly.
“No harm, Miss Julia; no harm meant. I
ain't much of a talker, an’ as I gets older the
worse I gets. If you wants to settle now a quid’s
the Usual thing. Thank yo’. Shall I put ’em on
the verandah, or where? ”
“Yes, put’em down ’ere. Me father’ll fix ’em
up. And be very careful, Mr. Corrigan ; they’ve
all got fancy things easilj' broke in ’em.”
She sat on the verandah till the last trunk was
unloaded and Corrigan had vanished through the
sliprails into the pine scrub. Then mopping her
eyes with a square of lace she strode aggressively
inside.
Her mother sat in the far corner of the shaded
room. Julia stood in the light at the door, and
the long, interested look that the “ good ” woman
always bestows on the doubtful one, confirmed her
first hurried impression.
It was a handsome girl that stood in the door-
way—a girl with a sad, hunted expression on her
features. Her dark hair was most fashionably
coiled over her forehead, and surmounted by a
wilderness of feathers and the other things that
go to make up a picture hat. Her dust cloak
of chameleon silk protected and half concealed
a frock which seemed to be composed of rectified
and polished spider-web spangled over with drops
of frozen water. Round her neck a chain of golden
links and amethysts gleamed brazenly. Her
shoes were bronze-tinted, and on the right arm,
encased in a long, expensive glove, a heavy
bangle of gold and amethyst scoffed loudly at
virtue and a “place” at 12s. 6d. per week.
“ Well, mother, have you all gone dotty, or
what?” she demanded in a voice that thrilled
with indignation , and was altogether out of har-
mony with her classic appearance and beautiful
raiment.
The mother still stared at her, fascinated, but
made no reply.
.“ Watcher mean by makin’ a holy show of me
like that, an’.before Corrigan, too? What is the
matter with you—tell me that? What ther Devil
do you mean by it? Answer me!” and she
rapped her gorgeous sunshade on the floor imperi-
ously.
“ Juliar, you went away with one carry-all an’ a
macintosh. You come back in clothes better nor
Lady Dudley's an’ enough luggage to fill the
stable. What <fo you mean by cornin’ home to
your mother’s house like that? Why don’t you
come humble like? ”
“ I ain’t of the humble sort, I s’pose. Anyhow,
no matter what yous thought, you’d a right to re-
ceive me decent.”
“Oh, Juliar, Juliar, me girl, I”
“Stow that!” yelled Julia, with a sudden
burst of wrath. “ Stow that, an’ tell me straight
what yous think I am. What are you driving at ?
Of course,” she suddenly continued, anticipating
atly reply, “if I ain’t wanted ’cause I might be a
drag on yous, I kin go Ise where —-I’ve a full purse
an’ won’t want for friends ! ” And she laughed
bitterly.
“Don’t be so brazen, Juliar! What yer want
to bring all them things for. Couldn’t you comp
home like a decent girl?”
“Who says I ain’t decent, anyhow?” she
growled ominously.
“ Well, if you can send home all yer wages but
half a crown a week and get all these things outer
the half-crown, you’re a wonderful girl, Juliar.
Things like them don’t grow on bushes even in
Sydney. ' So if they wasn't come by badly, then
how was they come by? Answer me that, my
girl.”
“ I’m no girl of yours after this day’s treatment.
But since you ask me, though not in the way I
expected, I’ll trouble you to look at me marriage
lines.”
The mother took the document and examined it
carefully, and then began to sniff.
“So you took me for a bad girl, eh ?” snorted
Julia, “just because I happened to have some
pretty clothes. Well, if you hadn’t lived all yer
life in the bush you’d have known that them sort
never gets things like these. All they has, poor
wretches, is Brum. Look at these—the real thing,
everyone of ’em. This bracelet cost as much as
yer separator. This star in me hat is worth more
than yer sewing machine.”
The mother, still sniffing, arose and tried to
fawn on her. Julia side-stepped with agility.
“No, yer don’t, mother ! You didn’t jump to
that idea all in a minute when you saw me in the
waggonette. That’s bin in yer mind a long while,
growin’ and growin’ every day. An’ yous didn’t
seem to care while I sent the money home—the
goodness in you only broke out when I come
meself. Booh ! ”
“ Juliar, me dear, what else could I think ? ”
“ Don’t arst me what you could think.
If I’d a girl I’d stick to her even if she
was real bad as long as she showed she
was fond of me. An’ never a sixpence I
got but I sent home a share of it; an’ you make a
holy show of me before strangers, who’ll spread it
over the district. I’m goin’ to see me father, an’
if he’s like the rest of you, off I go this very night.”
And she swept out of the darkened room and
away to where she saw her father hurrying up
from the stable to see if she had arrived..
* * * *
The air was full of the shrill orchestral music of
the cicadie, and the Riverine evening was melting
rapidly into purple darkness when Julia sat down
on the log seat at the bottom of the little garden
to tell her father the story of her adventures in
the City beyond the Range, the Babylon of many
waters that had broken her heart and given her
comparative wealth. Her father interrupted her
to express his thanks for the assistance she had
given him, an 1 to tell her how handy her remit-
tance had proved.
“Was you ever in love, dad?” inquired the
girl, looking at him wistfully in the fading light,
and ignoring his remarks about the money. The
old man nodded.
“ Well, I’m glad of it, as you’ll know how I
feel. I’ll start at the beginning of it all, an’ you’ll
understand. It’s all because there was no school
round here when we was little uns, dad.”
(Continued on next pac/e.)


A MAN IS AS STRONG
A Man can only do as much Work as his back will stand.
Once the back gives out he must lay down his tools.
. n °t f° r backache tells of sick kidneys. Other unmistakable signs are dizziness, stiffness of the
limbs, sick headache, and sleeplessness. Before long the patient grows nervous, short tempered, and depressed; the eyes
become heavy and sunken, with swellings beneath them, and the color flies from the cheeks. There* is danger of kidney
disease, rheumatism, dropsy, and Bright’s disease. The liquid poison
which causes kidney troubles is driven from the body quickly and
thoroughly by tbe genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This great
medicine will strengthen your back by relieving and toning up the kidneys.
HIS BACK
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
CITY
Mr. J. Bickell, 10 Chappell Street, Sydney,
says:—“l was a martyr to kidney trouble; my
back never ceased aching. The pains were across
the loins and down the thighs, and at times I
could scarcely move. I also had urinary weak-
ness, which was very annoying, and the secretions
were disordered, containing sediment. My life
was miserable, and I knew that I was getting
worse every day, in spite of tire fact that I used a
great many remedies. Mrs. Mullins, of 49 Hunter
btreet, advised me to use Doan’s Hack ache
Kidney Pills, and I got some right away. This
remedy cured me, every distressing symptom has
gone, and my kidneys are strong and healthy.”
Eight years later, Mrs. Bickell says: “For the
benefit of people who are tortured with kidney
trouble, I am pleased to add to the above, the fact
that my husband’s cure has lasted. He is quite
well now, and has been during the past eight
years.”
MANLY
Mr. William Bagnall, Storekeeper, Brookvale,
near Manly, says “ About five years ago I met
with a serious accident; was thrown out of a sulky
and hurt mv back. I was so bad I knew that I
had injured my kidneys. I could not get about at
all for a couple of months, and then only with
the greatest difficulty ; and I endured agony.
Every move was torture. I used remedies,
but nothing eased the pain. Seeing Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills advertised, I decided to try
them. After taking one box I noticed an improve-
ment, so I went.on taking them. In all, I used
twenty boxes for a cure, and I am now as well and
as strong as ever I was. This did not happen
yesterday, but four years ago, and it proves that
the remedy is genuinely good that I’ve been well
all that time, I consider my cure marvellous, for
lam over 70 years of age. I have lived at Manly
for 50 years, so I am well known, and my word
should carry weight.”
“Every
picture
tells a
story.”
Fop sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per box (6 boxes 15/3),
or posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 7(5 Pitt St., Sydney
ħ
Backache
Kidney
h
Ag'ain the old man wagged his head.
It all started by me being asked to sit still
while the young ladies painted me. By-and-bye
they was always paintin’ me, an’ the other girls
had to do me work while they did it. They used
to dress me all sorts of ways and paint me all day
long, till I got that tired sitting in a chair I
thought Id sooner be milking.”
Was it one of ’em that painted ver portrait
wot Wardell fluted ’bout so much ? ’’
No, it was the brother, an’ the young ladies
made him pay me for it too. He got a lot of
money for that picture.”
ave seen it ! ” sighed the old man.
I v ® getter copy of it in me box. Well, it
seems I had a figure and a face that they like to
paint, an’ people told me I could make lots of
money as a model for painters. And there was
one young man used to come there useter say if
only I could dance like S’lome he’d make photo-
graphs of me, an’ then paint pictures wot ud
make people fall down and worship me. But the
young ladies wouldn’t let me talk to him—because
he ate things they called drugs.
One day he wrote to me an’ asked me to come
to a studio in town and have pictures made of me,
ln ij° bring someone with me so that nobody
could talk. And I went, an’ he was so nice. He
gave us strawberries an’ cream, an’ he had a
camera an’ took lots of pictures of me—l’ve got
ein all in me box. An’ he gave me the money to
pay for dancing lessons. He said he would make
me fortune. An , wanting a fortune badly like
n ’ learned to dance.
‘ ll* s like drink, father—-the more you get the
more you want. I darnced at private shows, and
people made me presents. Ijined an assembly,
and the men swarmed to me for darnees. It was
lovely. And every night that bad young man
what ate the drugs came, and used to dance as
though he was in a dream all the time. An’ he
called me Venus Andrewmenee, an’ waltzed
som thing lovely. Did yer ever waltz, dad ?”
” A lut, me girl, a bit. It’s orlright whiles you
are voung. But followin’ the plough makes you
.ose interest in it.
“I s’pose so. Well, one night he wasn’t so
dreamy-like and for the first time he talked quite
a w^ien th o waltz was over he sez :
Let’s go where the cool champagne beakers
flow, an’ be at rest !’
We went out—for, father, I just loved him.
He was so nice. He took me in a cab an’ drove
me through streets to a great dining place where
only the rich people go. He took me in on his arm
and put me down at a table, an sez :
‘tor the love of hevin, Andrewmenee, don’t
say a word an’ don’t laugh loud. Just enjoy
yourself quiet-like, an’ I’ll have visions.’ Beauti-
ful, wasn’t its. Yes.
*' Well, other people came in, and most of’em
he knew, an’ all the time he talked to me, an’ he
would whisper :
“ ‘Now, whatever you do, don’t talk or laugh.’
" I didn’t, although all round me people
was chatterin’ like cockatoos in the corn. And he
gave me little glasses of wine that fizzed like soda
water or ginger ale, and what made me feel I
was walking on air when we got up to go. He
. n - e arra ’ an< l as we rose he whispers again :
‘“Now, Andrewmenee, for the love of Hevin
don’t talk and spoil everything.’
Outside he called a cab, and I bounced in—l
could have cleared a six-wired fence. He got in
and said something as he went down into the
cushions with a plunk. The cab went off at a
gallop, an’ in a little while we was in a street
with a great garden on one side. We stopped at
a big house where he said ho wanted me to
darnce, an’ I went in ready enough to darnce. It
was a tine place—red paper on the walls, lights in
red glass, and up and up and up great stairs we
climbed, till at last he threw open a door and said
we had arrived at last.
“‘Your new home, Venus Andrewmenee!
How do you like it?’
“ This scared me a bit, an’ I asked him what he
meant.
“ ‘ I mean I’m going to marry you right off
this very night if you’ll have me, and all that you
see here is yours.’
“An’ he put his arms round me and kissed me,
an’ me soul went out to him. He was so different
from everyone else. He was like some great king,
and all that lovely place seemed to be his.
“ There wasn’t time to think. I was dancing
on air. I felt a queen, anrl, besides, I expected
to wake up every moment and find I was asleep
an’ dreaming. And L felt I could have died with
him, let alone marry him. An’ he rang the tele-
phone, and spoke very quietly, and in a few
minutes I found people there. I was holding his
hand, saying, ‘Yes, I will ! ’ And a ring was on
my finger, and there was signing of papers, clink-
ing of glasses, and then we were alone, and
married.
“Out through great windows I caught glimpses
of sea and sky and gardens, but whenever I tried
to tell him how happy I was he would whisper :
“‘Don’t talk, beautiful one; don’t talk! If
you love me, say nothing !’
“ An’ I didn’t want to talk. All I wanted was
to be with him, to watch his wonderful face, to
hear him' make the piano laugh with joy and
shriek with pain and rage; to watch him making
pictures of me, and feel his kisses. I was dumb.
‘‘And, such days! He gave me money each
day saying:
“‘Go out and buy so and so, Andrewmenee.
Come back at quarter to six an’ we’ll dine ! An’
there were cabs, and theatres, an’ music, and
boats down the harbor. Strange people with long
hair who said but little arid moved about very
softly came to our place at nights and made
wonderful music. And in the day other strange
people with long hair came an’ made pictures—
but never a one would he allow to paint me.
When he found they were trying to sketch me he
would send me to another room. But no matter
who came I was not allowed to speak: ‘Don’t
talk, Andrewmenee; whatever you do, don’t
talk,’ he said.
“One day there came a thin-lipped, plainly-
dressed woman. Shesaidshe had been sent to teach
me grammar. I said I didn’t want ter do any
fancy work as practising my darncing kep’ me
busy all the whiles. She sniffed a bit but went
away. An’ when I tried to thank him he laid his
hands on me shoulders and whispered :
“‘Sh ! Don’t say a word, beautiful one !’.
“ Every morning a girl brought tea to the room,
but one morning she never came. He grew rest-
less an’ touched the bell. Nobody came. He got
outer bed and went to see what had happened. I
waited, wonderin’ if the girls had gone orff through
the night as they sometimes do. An’ I waited
an’ waited, an’ then I got out, put on a wrapper,
an’ went to see where he was. His clothes was
hanging over the chair, his hat was on the peg in
the hall, and nothing was disturbed. He was
wearin’ pale blue silk pyjamas an’ bath slippers.
I went downstairs an- found everything very
quiet. In the kitchen there Was no fire, no sign
of anybody. I went from floor to floor, and found
nobody. I was alone in an empty house.
“ I went back an’ dressed. His clothes was
where lie had left’em. I waited and waited, but
he never came back.
“I neve: 1 saw him again. I went to the police,
an’ they seemed drunk. L waited an’ waited, day
an’ night, with the lights burnin’ on the stair, so
as he shouldn’t hurt himself when he did come.
But he never came.
“ Then I went an’ saw the young ladies where
I used to work, and’ they said papa would go into
it and see what it all meant. But days passed,
an’ they never come near; so I went to a lawyer
bloke an’asked his opinion. After asking me a
lot of questions, he opened his head and said if I’d
give him £2O he’d have me husband by the heels
in harf an hour.
“Then I performed on him, an’ he seemed
kinder dazed when I’d finished. But before I
went he asked me for me address an’ said I’d hear
from him.
“ Next day he came to see me. He told me me
husband was mad, and had married me while
under the influence of some drug. His family was
performing somethin’ awful, and all sorts of things
was goin’ to happen.
“ I said I’d go an’see his family, but another
fellow came before I got dressed an’ said he was
the family solicitor. They wanted me to take
£SOO down and clear out. I wasn't taking any
thing. I wanted me husband, an’ if he was sick
or mad I’d nurse him. That was all I wanted,
an’ he went off with a flea in his ear.
“ Later on, he comes back with me own lawyer
bloke, an’ there was a terrible lot of arguin’ an’
wrangling till my bloke sez, in a tired sorter way :
“ ‘ Look here, I’m goin’ ter see this woman
righted. Either yous comes down handsome an’
proper, or else we goes to court, an’ then there’ll
be a pretty how-dee-doo. We ain’t perticular
which wav we gets it.’
“ 1 was just goin’ to say somethin’, an’ tell ’em
all I wanted was me husband to nurse, but me
lawyer he jumps up an’ sez, just like me husband,
1 Don’t talk. Say nothing ! ’
“ ‘ Why ?’ I sez.
“ ‘ Because you don’t understan’ how to deal
with snobs. Fer two pins I’d go straight
and lay an information, and send some of the
Naicest people where their forefathers kem from.’
“ My word ! You oughter seen the other
lawyer. He jumps up and grabs his hat, and
when he gets to ther door he turns round.
“ ‘Say nothing,’ sez he, ‘an’l have no doubt
that an honorable settlement will be arrived at
before noon.’
“ ‘ We’ll give you till two o’clock,’ sez theother;
‘an’ then if our terms isn’t agreed to, up the
spout goes ther fire.’
“ It was all Dutch to me ; but at the end of it
there was much signin’ of papers, an’ I’ve agreed
to leave ’em alone, never to see him agen, say
nothing, and draw £2O per month. And ther
rooms where I was so happy is mine fer ever,
never to be disturbed.
“And there’s his clothes hangin’on the chair,
his hat in the hall, just as he left ’em. I took his
boots away from the door ’cause people used to
trip over’em, and they was getting knocked about.
“Now, I tell you what I’m goin’ to do. I’m
going to save up me gonce, an’ then when I gets
a lot in hand I’m goin’ to steal me husband from
where they sav he is, an’ get him home an’nurse him
back to what he useter to be. I won’t say a word,
keep him nice an’ quiet, an’ if I kin only have
him there to look at it ’ll be just lovely.”
“I’ve heerd of such things; but I’m sorry as
you should have struck one on ’em, me girl.
Someday, p’raps, he’ll get better an’ come back to
yo’, fer nobody in his proper senses would leave a
woman like you, Juliar, me girl,” said the old man
as they wandered back to the house where a
penitent mother awaited them with tea.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Ships.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Times repeats Lord Milner’s dictum that naval
co-operation is not a question of shifting- burdens.
but of developing fi esh centres of strength.
—News item.
L to the ships —
V These that shall ride at gaze
To myriad bursting dawns ablaze,
And the sullen West’s eclipse,
Nosing the taint of the Northern breeze
In the stillness of wide nights redly-starred,
Rampantly fronting the racing seas
Their ranging guns shall guard !
Hail to the hammer and beaten plate,
And the hands that thrust from the dockyard gate
This keen-prowed cordon to fend the goal !—-
Skoal!
Wacs hael—the ships !
Square to the straits, athrone
On the rocks where the Channel combers drone
And the mad south-wester whips.
Through the scattering drift that flecks her
mouth,
And the foam that runs on her hauberk-rings,
Our Mother hearkens the strident South
Grow gusty with threatenings.
Children, your weight on her white breast warm
Doth irk, and ye cumber her falchion-arm,
And a Homeland waits for your strength. (Stand
clear !)
Here !
Brine hael—the ships !
Flung from the ocean’s wrist
Like a falcon with jesses of amethyst,
The dawn stares down on the slips
Where our travail shall trample the scorn which
saith
That we, in a wide land sparsely set,
Should chaffer for life with the huckster Death,
Though a little people yet—
A little people of largesse small,
Yet shall each man give as he hath withal—
And dearest of world-lands one land is—
This!
Skoal to the ships —
Built of our blood and breath,
For the love that a clean heart cherisheth,
And the life of our children’s lips !
Bend to the word of a people grown
Strong of wide spaces and salt sweet air,
Plenty, our Mother, have you your own,
Plenty to spend or spare ;
This is our leal word loyalest,
Serving ourselves, that we serve von best !
* * *
To the ships and the seas that the.shfps patrol
(God give you, children !)
Skoal!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


ĥ
“I have worked on the Barrier off and on for several years, and
had to lose a good many shifts
through ill health. I could neither
eat nor sleep well. In fact, work of
any kind was out of the onestion
until I struck a good thing in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I had only taken one
bottle when I felt a lot better. In
all, I have taken seven bottles and
now am quite well. I always tell any
one that feels off color to take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and it will put them in
working order.”
J. W. Scott,
Broken Hill, N. S. W.
Imperfectly digested food breeds poisons and im-
purities which, are quickly absorbed into the blood.
AYER’S i arsaparilla
will strengthen the stomach and make the digestive juices more active.
As a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion we cannot recommend it
too strongly.
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you get
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other kind put up in imitation of it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operatic*. Then send for particulars
o/our perfectfitting
Automatic Air Cushion Appliance
the Best Rupture Applianc * of the Centuhy-
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted FreJ
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St.. Melbourne,Vic
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
|i CUBEBS and
ICOPAIBA.
* same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
ħ
Each Capsule bears the name E®“
Th« Standard Remedy which has outliTed the Centime*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
Tn übb since 1596.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
A»k your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
296
SUS
Breaks pear,
i
STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
TF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
JL can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to evert home-
in dining-room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
* sold by
Wholesale
uruggists,
Groce s and
Hardware
Dealer a ,
•Song" whom" are'”
Sydney —Anthony Hordern &Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St. ; F. H. Paulding & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.: Briscoe & Co. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
V*,
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk.” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in doth, with
portrait; price 4s (id. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bum.ktin office, os.
DR. J. COLDS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Gnnuinn
Medical
Testimony
with each
30L0BV ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
tfjticrctqr
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHCEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
water p/pt
WATER
TWK
DUMMY
RESERVOIR
FILTERED OIL
CJ GRATES 3
.fife’ 1
£s=3
y
RECEPTACLE
DIRTi WATER
/*'■
Williams’ Patent OIL FILTER.
Description :
The large vessel is the filtering cylinder; into the bottom division
the oil is poured through the funnel. The top vessel is a water tank
of exactly the same capacity as the bottom one, and connected by
a pipe. The pressure of the water forces the oil through the filtering
medium into the reservoir above, whence it is drawn off quite clean.
PRICE £5 Sydney
or Melbourne.
Sent on approval. If unsatisfactory return it at our expense.
Five Gallons of Dirty Oil can be made quite clean and fit
for use in Six Minutes.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd..
263 George St., Sydney ; 486 Collins St., Melbourne,
Sole Licensees and Manufacturers for Australia.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
You Know Vfhat To €xpect
in certain circumstances. All doubt is eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conclusion. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news : and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments! There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every case of ordinary ailments a cure can be easily effected.
When You Use
Beecham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world with such unvarying good results, that you know what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you—or if you cannot sleep or you
are bilious and headachy —to know that all you require is a course of
jjeecbam’s pills.
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels , Liver, and Kidneys.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/H (56 pills) $ 2/9 (168 pills).
-
iMi
;
m
i.
S 3
'
km
It;
THE LONE HAND
among Windmills—
The “Steel Wings.”
Play it, and you will come out a winner.
Because : It has a bearing on each side of
the wind wheel; it is strong and easy-
running ; it has a large-sail area ; it pumps
three times to any other type’s once ; it has
a long stroke, and therefore pumps more
water per stroke, as well as three times the
rate; it has a simple balance gear; it is
storm proof.
All these combined ensure a continuous,
copious supply of water 50 per Cent, greater
than that raised by any other make of mill
on the market.
Dept. C post -catalogues and price lists
on application.
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
GfO
vv
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
f POST
CARDS,
NEW SERIES, IV., V, VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash."
Fonvarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - 6d.
- sd.
Packet of Ten - -
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
ilk George Street, Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of tho Insol
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas &Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual urice, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. (id. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge 6s. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
ny address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &*.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders,
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 16 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
•‘THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,”
will be sent FREE to all men suffering from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outaide Aus-
tralia. for the next three months (on receipt of an application and
tper five stamps to cover the coat of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
rnCiEin ‘‘Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 892 Pages, ovor 80S
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Feur-Oolored Plato. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those se-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. Ho similar book has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from any of th* Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/8, but to all Men living in the country and adjaoent States
suffering from any complaint, the hook, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage.
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address:—
DR. MARTIN, M.D., 251 Elizabethst.,
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
men
WOMEN


Perdriati’s 30/- Macintosh.
h
This is indeed a beauty—a coat good
from every standpoint. It hangs full,
free and long, giving a verv dressy
effect and affording thorough protection
for the legs.
There is a wide range of materials to
choose from, all proofed with tropic-
proof rubber, and the finish of each coat
leaves nothing to be desired.
When you see the coat you will agree
that this is so. A better grade of coat
in the same style—as fine a coat as can
be bought—is priced at 455.
If you cannot call, send for our book
of samples, and remember, too, that we
pay the freight and ensure correct fit
by mail, if you give your height and
easy chest measurement.
PERDRIAU RUBBER Co=, LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE
SAVE YOUR FUEL
by using
»*
THE DEAN BOILER TUBE CLEANER.
Sole Agent, T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt.
■e> alatq
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a truard against inferior
imitations, lopk for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
IE BULLETIN POST CARDS— New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten. lOd.
9
Try a
“ WOLFE ’’
and Soda*
Tlie beverage
that benefits.
;
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven* For Mining Purposes .
DOBBIE McINIMES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply-J. WILDRID6E & SINCLAIR, Engineers, B*2 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ALLIS - CHALMERS CO.
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
(W.A. excepted)—
E.S. & A. Bank Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
MINING REQUISITES
of all Descriptions.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES
and ORDERS along; for
SPARE PARTS.
Machinery. Cement Making Plants. Large Gas Engine Units.
TEL .
/3236
\5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
<
FRANK! & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED , GATESEND ON TYNE.
Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
. p.
•f
ĥ
Have in Stock- —
Blake’s Pumps for all Purposes.
Fay 8 Egan Co.’s Woodworking Machinery, Planers,
Matchers, Molders, Band Saws, Wood Lathes, etc.
W. F. 8 J. Barnes’ Lathes 8 Woodworking Machines.
Mason Reducing Valves.
Sturtevant Blowers and Exhaust Fans.
Ludlow Open Gate Valves.
Harris Pure Cylinder and Machinery Oils.
American Allwrought Steel Split Pulleys.
Melbourne Agents: SMITH & COOKE, Bourke Street.
Perth Agents: Me LEAH BROS. & R/GG, LTD.
SECOND-HAND, Equal to NEW!
10-Head Battery, 900 lb. Stamps, Iron Frame, Wooden Guides.
Challenge Ore Feeders (new), Tangye Jackass Boiler, Feed Pump,
Horizontal Engine 12 x 36 , Winch and Full Set General Tools.
Also Hornsby’s Portable Oil Engines, 5 B.H.P. and 12J 8.H.P.,
Practically New. Worked only 1000 hours. Perfect ortler. A BARGAIN.
N. CUTHRIDCE LTD., 263 George St., Sydney; 486 Collins St, Melbourne.
