

or
o
e
ise
is
su
icien
UK. Gr. CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
, —FOB— > ; >UaU i; . ./■■' ' ~0< '
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sfd
SOLE AGENTS
Jeffrey
Labor Saving Appliances.
See Wild Cat Column.
m
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
William Street, Melbourne.
HOBAni’.
- 'T&tiSk-
fadley’s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
m
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
fds
Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
fine Apple Brand
CHUBB’S BIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
A Paying Investment
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P.
Fairbanks=Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney. /
THE WAY
■<<}
KMmm Contractors for the Erection- and Complete Equipment of Generating Stations for Light, Power and Traction. ■■■
Manufacturers of Dynamos, Motors, Switchboards, Cables, etc.
THE INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA-PERCHA AND TELEGRAPH WORKS COMPANY LIMITED
(THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.),
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
DRINK
BECK’S
WAdVAA JMF
J
HANSENS
unket
TABLETS
HANS
HANSEN’S
un
e
“OUR FIRE JOINT”
(Patented)
Does the trick
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
“OUR FIRE JOINT”
(Patented)
Perfect Flat Roofs
and PERMANENT.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY 0°
sfd
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
C. A.
REFRIGERATORS
MacDONALD, 63
SIMPLICITY
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
.IELIDON SPA WATER
Two dreaded foes—lndigestion, Constipation—
HELIDON SPA applies only to the former. j
o
o
>F
n =
o 2
3
to
o
o
The Bulletin
V01.30.— N0. 1508.]
[Thursday, January 7, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEGIN THE NEW YEAR WELL
By having our Fortnightly Now Book List Sent Regularly as Issued.
LISTS ON ANY SUBJECT. INQUIRIES GLADLY ANSWERED.
BOOKS OBTAINED FROM ALL SOURCES PROMPTLY and at ORDINARY PRICES
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
BOOKSELLERS, STATIONERS, etc. 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes asan Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
G 3
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung-.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
The RED PAGE
Rossetti
In his characteristic, and therefore
blatant, autobiography, My Story (Heine-
mann) recently noticed upon this page,
Hall Caine, under the guise of a friend,
retells the sordid story of Dante Gabriel
Rossetti. Rossetti fell in love with
milliner’s girl with glorious reddish
auburn hair, whom one of the pre
Raphaelists had persuaded to sit as
model for him. The girl was beautiful anc
clever, and while sitting to Rossetti re
vealed a very marked aptitude for ar
and literature. She became Rossetti’s
pup'il at the wish of Ruskin, who took
great interest in her. Then Rossett
awoke to a greater passion for another
but nevertheless he married the model
Caine surmises that the wife discoverec
that her husband was in love with anothe
woman, though not unfaithful. Thi
preyed on her mind, and her health
failed. A child came, still-born ; anc
her mood deepened to one of settler
melancholy. Rossetti left her one even
ing for a solitary walk, and returned to
find his wife dying of an overdose o :
laudanum, which she was in the habit a
taking when afflicted with neuralgia. A
verdict of accidental death was given bv
the coroner. Rossetti’s grief was over
whelming.
Many of his poems had been inspired bv
and addressed to his wife, and at her re
quest he had copied them out, sometime
from memory, into a little book which she
hadgiveh to him for this purpose. With
this book ifl his hand, on the day of her
funeral, he walked into the room where hev
body lay, and quite unmindful of the pre-
sence of others, Ls spoke to hjs dead wife as
though She could hear, saying the poerns
it contained had been written to her, and for
her:.and she must take them with her to the
gravg. With these words, he placed the
little volume in the coffin, by the side of his
wife’s face, and wrapped it round with her
beautiful hair, and it was buried with her in
Highgate Cemetery.
vf/
Seven years passed, and then came the
anti-climax of this great act of renuncia-
tion. Rossetti began to cast backward
glances at the buried book. That book
contained the only perfect copy of his
poems, other copies being either incom-
plete or unrevised.
The impulse of grief or regret, or even re-
morse* that had prompted him to the act of
renunciation had been satisfied, and for seven
years he had denied himself the reward of his
best poetic effort—was not hia penance at an
end ?. . . Was it not his duty to the living,
to himself, and perhaps even to God, to
recover and publish ?
The exhumation was carried out by a
friend, whom Caine stigmatises as a
daring, unscrupulous soldier of fortune,
almost without the moral sense. Rossetti
was not present. The book, Poems, was
published in 1870, the author being then
42. Its success was immediate. Caine
thinks the most probable cause of the
popular sensation it made was the flick
of interest and curiosity which came of a
rumor of its history. But a year after-
wards, Robert Buchanan bitterly attacked
it under the biting phrase, “ The Fleshly
School of Poetry ”; and the noncon-
formist conscience of England arose in
its black coat and damned it to eternity.
So here it is.
Caine details with a morbid journalistic
delight the phases of Rossetti’s deteriora-
tion under the influence of chloral; and
puts down to it Rossetti’s conviction that
he was the victim of an organised con-
spiracy of the critics to persecute him,
resulting in the poet’s seclusion from the
world.
♦
A useful work is being undertaken by
Rodney Cockburn, whose Nomenclature of
South Australia (The Register, Adelaide) is
the first scientific effort made to trace the
history, the derivation, and the meaning of
the place-names on the S. Australian map.
There is mojre miscellaneous information to
be found in this book than in the Bible.
AN AUSTRALAISE.
See the blanky blankards come !
Blokes, this ’ere means lash !
Never mind the fife an’ drum,
Bash ! you blankers, bash !
Sight ’em there, cull! Yow ! blokes, Yow !
Who’s afraid ter face ’em now—
Pass him out, the blanky cow !
Bash ! you blankers, bash !
Ho ! the gory taste of blood !
’Stralia’s monniker ain’t Mud !
Snorky, Brick-top, Stinker, Spud,
Bash ! you blankers, bash !
Where the foreign scum holds sway
Slaves and blacklegs dwell!
Liberty is ours to-day—
Let us guard it well!
See them, like a black mirage,
On the hill-top loomin’ large ;
Charge ! you blanky blankers, charge !
Give ’em* hell!
’Taint no time t’ chew the cud !
Ho ! the gory taste of blood !
Snorky, Brick-top, Stinker, Spud,
Bash, you blankers, bash !
Hear the donahs as they cry :
“ Boshters, let her go !
Out the blankers, or we die !
Shame we shall not know.”
Wave the star-crossed flag alvut!
Hear the dyin’ ero shout—
“ Tear their bleedin’ livers out!
Paralyse the foe ! ”
Ho ! the gory taste of blood !
’Stralia’s monniker ain’t mud !
Snorky, Brick-top, Stinker, Spud,
Bash ! you blankers, bash !
MILKY WHITE.
Hubert Church
Among our own minors Hubert Church
occupies a dignified and assured place. He
has many of the gifts necessary for the poet,
but lacks the pulse of inspiration. His work
is cultured, serious, plaqid, but his midnight
oil merely smokes. He leads his docile
Pegasus along well-worn furrows, but never
once does he leap on its winged back and
gallop to the stars. Yet his fancy is often
charming, delicate, daintily imaged.
So in Egmont (Lothian, Melb., 2s. 6 d.) we
find much that is good, nothing that is the
best. His title poem to “ Mount Egmont ”
(M.L.) is reverent, and lit here and there with
a happy phrase. How fine, for instance, is
the line, ‘ 4 The sunset is a pilgrim to thy
snows ” ! But his concluding stanzas are
good writing—no more :
Thy footstool is the land, but far away
The intangible, dim girdle of the sea
Folds thee for ever like the Milky Way
Andromeda—’tis fitting thou shouldst be
Lovelier and more monumental shown
To the eternal wave than to the shore ;
It knoweth what e’en thou hast never known,
And murinureth it to thee evermore.
The sound that is the ivy of the beach
Hath harmony beyond all earthly song ;
Oh, thou that hast for ever heard it, teach
My heart some fragment, so it may belong
To all my being—and as thou dost Shine
A greater tetnple to the changeless sea,
Be it my glory that I am divine
Less to the world than to Eternity.
And in his “ Ode on Metaphysical Thought, ”
Church shows his better quality :
Dreams are about us evermore—
Each hath a dream, a slender web
Spun from the lintel of his door
To the grave where life doth ebb;
Be it a famed phylactery,
The holy of a temple built
By thorn-grieved worshippers who sea
In us a precious balsam spilt;
Be it forgotten in a day,
A chanceless seedling overblown
By ragged, uncurbed winds away
To the charity of a stone.
Church is never slovenly in his expression.
At his best he is simple, direct, restrained.
It is a pity that in this collection there is not
more of the quality of his “ Who May Con-
demn ? ”
What shall a man condemn,
Whose secret hour has flamed
With turpitude, in them
Found out, dishonored, shamed?
You twine your hidden thought,
Wrapped in a drowsy prayer
The priest presents—you brought
Another gospel there.
You see beyond the walls
A harlot of young time;
Her squandered splendor calls
To you through anthem rime.
Her eyes you see when lids
Drop down—the organ jars;
A dolt the priest who bids
Aspire beyond the stars.
The murmur of the breeze
Evokes the day you held
Her face, near wandering seas
In some white land of eld.
Ah, riot of red days
Unknown to all, for she
Is dead with tears—you praise
The blessed Trinity.
The sullen stone that falls
May crush a virgin bride,
Or, muffled in sea walls,
Holl stainless through the tide.
The harlot of the street,
If Fate had looked away,
Had followed where the feet
Of Jesus make the day.
A Parson on Australia .
One of the fairest books about Australia
has as its author a parson. He happens to
be a man, a White Australian, and “a good
sort ” ; and though in A Parson in the Aus-
tralian Bush (Arnold, London), C. H. S.
Matthews talks some “shop,” he does not
allow his profession to obscure his person-
ality. We forgive him his “shop” for
his common-sense and his straightness.
Primarily the book professes to de-
scribe the operations of the Brother-
hood of the Good Shepherd, an
Anglican confraternity operating around
Dubbo ; but the narrative serves merely to
introduce a number of good stories, a well-
told account of bush experiences, and some
pertinent conclusions anent the use of the
Church to Australia. Of the Anglican Church
he does not hesitate to speak frankly. While
admitting that the Australian is in no
sense especially immoral, he blames the
Church :
‘■ 1 say that the Anglican Church has
failed, and it is no satisfaction to be obliged
to add that every form of organised
Christianity has failed in Australia.
Romanism, though externally powerful, has
failed as a religious influence, because it has
been content to strive for the lower goals of
wealth, popularity, and political power.
Protestantism has failed. .. chiefly, perhaps,
because, in revolt against the laxity of
Romanism, it has plunged into the black-
ness of Puritanism, and has attempted to
clothe the Australian sun in a black coat and
white tie.”
The Church of England “ has clung to an
effete officialism, and peppered the con-
tinent of Australia with archdeacons, in the
full glory of archidiaeonal aprons and gaiters,
in conditions where, owing to the impossi-
bility of these worthy gentlemen performing
any ‘ archidiaeonal functions, ’ the title has
proved as ridiculous to the Australian mind
as the outward garb to the Australian eye.”
The other cause of failure is the hitherto
unavoidable neglect of the back-blocks. It
was to meet this difficulty that the Brother-
hood was founded. As an example of the
Churches’ neglect, Matthews tells this neat
yarn:
A bushman, asked if his township had
ever had any religion, replied :
“ Well, we did hear some years ago that
there was a religious bloke cornin’ our way ;
but we hadn’t had any religion for so long
we didn’t know what ’ud be best to do, so
we decided to have a meetin’, anyway, and
talk it over. One of the boys got up and
said he reckoned this bloke was cornin’ for a
collection, so we said he could have his col-
lection if he’d stop away. We’d done without
religion so long, we could do without it now.
So we took up a collection, and it came to
ten quid. Then we sent one of the boys out
to meet the bloke on the track, and tell him
he could take his collection and clear, or
we’d keep the collection and we’d clear. . . .
He took the collection and cleared. And
that’s all the religion we’ve had at our town-
ship.”
On the larger questions of Australian
Nationalism, Free Trade, and the Labor
Party the author is a White Australian. So
he finds that the Church .it the present time
‘ ‘ stumbles blindly along without vision and
power, smothered beneath the weight of her
Anglican respectability, alien to the life and
aspirations of the young nation to which she
has been sent.... In Australia the Church,
instead of being in harmony with the life of
the people, is merely a cheap edition of the
Church of England. . . . The result of all this
is that to a great extent the Anglican Church
is becoming a foreign Church in Australia.”
So much for his common-sense—now for
his “ shop.” The quaintest part of an other-
wise commendable book is the account of
“The Church of England Wayfarers’
Union.” This is a union of Religious Swag-
men. Whenever a parson discovers one he
enrols him in the union, and gives him a
little card, with the text, “ Take up
your cross daily and follow me.” This is
possibly a misprint for u bluey,” If you are
a wayfarer you must: (1) Say the Wayfarers’
Prayer night and morning. (2) Write once
a year, on Good Friday, to the friend who
enrolled you. And there are certain aims
for the member of the Wayfarers’ Union :
To go to church and to Holy Communion
whenever possible ; to carry, a Bible in the
swag, and read some portion every day ; not
to use swear-words and other things ; and
not to “do in” your cheque nor gamble.
There is also a Wayfarers’ prayer, and a
Wayfarers’ hymn.
Matthews does not give any statistics of
the actual size of this unique trades-union,
and so far none of the Abo, liars have re-
ported the discovery of this new species of
swagman. As they have reported everything
else, the omission seem unpardonable.
Two Maoriland Color Books
At last A. and 0. Black, the publishers of
color books upon the various sections of the
globe, have discovered Maoriland. The
omission of the Dominion for so long from
these publishers’ exquisite series is quite
unaccountable ; but now the • thin and
crooked streak in the Southern Pacific is
done fair justice to pictorially by F. and W.
Wright, and full justice to by the letterpress
of William Pember Reeves. Indeed, for
descriptive purposes no pen could have been
discovered more suitable than that of the
graceful and skilled writer whose knowledge
of his country is as profound as it is loving.
Thus in this book, alone of all the series,
the letterpress outweighs the illustrations in
value.
The illustrations, seventy-five in number,
all in color, are fully up to the high standard
of color-work set by these publishers; ■ and
they convey a fine impression of the color—
though not of the grandeur—of this country
that is, from the point of view of the farmer,
cursed with good scenery. The artists have
caught the beauty of the countfy, but,
because they probably are visiting English
artists, have given to their pictures an
idyllic, almost English, prettiness that cer-
tainly does not pourtray the rugged grandeur
and bleak magnificence of the Dominion.
As Canada has just been added to the
series, it seems fully time that the Common-
wealth should also gorgeously appear.
There are half-a-dozen of our artists who
could present to the world a picture of Aus-
tralia worthy of her'beaut Ifis to be
hoped that A. and C. Black will not consider
it necessary to send an English artist to dis-
cover us. We have discovered ourselves.
The Maoriland volume of “The Romance
of the Empire ” series (Jack) is pictorially of a
higher quality, the artist being A. ‘ D.
McCormick, though necessarily in a boy’s
book the subjects are not scenery, but inci-
dents in Maori warfare. These are graphic-
ally, almost luridly, pictured, while the
author, Reginald Horseley, describes in
popular fashion the troublous days of early
colonisation and warfare. Both books will
be useful in this season of gifts.
« :
The Australian drama can find little use
for A. M. Gwynne’s three-act comedy, A
Social Experiment (Lothian, Melb., Is.),
even though, or possibly because, it was
awarded a first prize at the Melb. Woman’s
Work Exhibition last year. The thing is
quite conventional, with a quite impos-
sible “Socialist” villain, who tries the experi-
ment of running a shearing-shed on the
co-operative principle. According to this
polite comedy he fails. But the “Socialist” is
a poor parody, and the other characters mere
automata, and the plot, though lady-like,
void of drama. The authoress descends
even to the old device of disguising her hero
in order to keep him handy while the villain
makes love to his wife ; and the reconcilia-
tion at the curtain is as aimless as the
rest of the action. No characterisation is
attempted, and the problem, which might
have made a play, is palpably shirked. Yet
the authoress is to be congratulated on
having published her play. It might suggest
to other Australian playwrights the publica-
tion of theirs. And as this seems the only
way in which the Australian playwright can
reach his public, it should be encouraged—
even though it results in the publication of
plays as colorless as this.
The American illustrator is a lord. Chas.
Dana Gibson took a contract that netted him
£20,000 in four years. Maxfield Parrish
gets £2OO for each of his drawings. From
Harper's Howard Pyle receives £2OOO a year
for a portion of his time, and his average in-
come is £4OOO. As an art-editor for three
days every week he was once paid £7200 a
year ! John T. McCutcheon, a cartoonist
on the Chicago Tribune gets an honorarium
of £4OOO a year, or £ll per laugh. Outcault,
who does the Buster Brown inanities, made
£20,000 a year for several years. Harper's
pays E. A, Abbey £3OO a drawing. Howard
Chandler Christy is said in one year to have
made £16,000, and Harrison Fisher made
£4OOO in seven months. Collier's pays big
prices, £lOO a picture to Louis Loeb and
F. X. Leyendecker, while Will Bradley re-
ceives £2OO a month as art-editor of that
weekly. The enormous sums received for
advertisements in the States, enable these
magazines to pay such enormous screws.
The Australian prices are, on the whole,
somewhat lower.


A
xwe
No. 510— Ladies’ Fine Long’Cloth Chemises, trimmed
Embroidery and Insertion. Women’s, 2/11;
Out Sizes, 3/3
Ladies’ LINGERIE
#
AT
Anthony Horderns*
Famous Low Prices.
No. 406— Fine Nightdress in Madapolam, trimmed
Valenciennes Lace and Insertion, 10/3.
No. 500— Ladies' Fine Longcloth Nightdresses,
Scalloped frills, with feather Braid and Tucks, 4/6.
No. 1371— Ladies' Princess
Petticoats, in Madapolam,
tucked, insertedand trimmed
Real Torchon Lace, 21/-
No. 503— Ladies’ Fine Longcloth Nightdresses,
trimmed Embroidery, with Medallions, Tucks
and Ribbon. Women’s, 7/3 ; 0.5., 8/-
No. 1607 Ladies’ Com-
binations, fine quality
Nainsook, trimmed Tor-
chon Lace & Ribbon, 6/11.
Aif. *\ •>
v 7 '. • , . ■. . J l/ i_v 1 t W.-S
i K;.
. V
IW3
No. 512—Ladles’ Fine Long-oloth Chemises, trimmed
Embroidery, with Insertion and >1 dallions.
Women’s, 4/11 ; Oat Sizes, 6/3.
No. 700— Ladies’ Combinations, m
Nainsook, inserted and trimmed Imi-
tation Torchon Lace, 4/-
No. 1606— Ladles’ Com-
binations, Nainsook,
trimmed Torchon Lace
and Insertion, 7/11.
nANY other Charming
Styles are illustrated in
our Price List of Ladies’
and Children’s Underclothing.
Write for a Copy, posted free
on application, and reap the full
benefit of our Unique System
of Spot Cash Trading. Fifteen
Shillings expended at
The New Palace Emporium
will go further than a sovereign
spent at any other store.
No. 132— Ladies’
Combinations, i n
Nainsook, trimmed
Torchon Lace, In-
serted & Ribbon, 5/-
No. 400— Ladies’ Nainsook Night-
dresses, trimmed Valenciennes Lace,
Insertion and Tucks, 5/11.
No. 140— -adles’ Combinations,
in Nainsook or Loiigcloth,
trimmed Torchon Lace and
Embroidery Insertion, 7/6.
s
y
.4
A
/iW
No. 766— Ladles’ White Lawn Skirts, trimmed with two Embroidered Frills, 13/6.
No. 305— Ladies’ Madapolam
Chemises, inserted and trimmed
Torchon Lace, 3/3.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


sfd
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
s Y D 3NT E Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW and MARSTTPTAT SJTTttT<s
to weijn/ el l Si d and b^n r highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
ExceDti'onaf f-wnftu I>osmg to verv best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly,
their fli™ ! r o '^* 7 this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
1 Main. T nil particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "
GRIP DROPPER.
Will Anprape >» BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring: Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Tommy Burns’ Scientific
Boxing, 40 photo-illustra-
tions, 3/-, posted 3/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pajfes, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Ready-made
Speeches and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride ok tub First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/-. How to
Mesmerise, 1/-. Every
Man His Own Builder,
1/6. Letter Writer, ]/-.
Lover’s Guide, 1/3.
Of* - AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
ftp
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will cfo.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201b Bourke St., Melbourne
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
sf
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
he Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., P ly. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
I £ f fi-W?
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMDETITIOW.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
CD TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
ever created.
C.B.
S *
BTMU*
Mt.ol
CORSETS
\\ A
. C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval,. and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
W - a j i Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over ail other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8 /|| tQ 4 G||ineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
ptyle write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
” » »» Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
d
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
sfd
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
m- Full Pa f tlculfirs Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland,
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should. visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
DISORDERED
KIDNEYS.
Violent Headaches.
At No. 37 Lvmerston Street, St. Peters, where
this interview took place, Mrs. Maggie Trusty
looked back through a mental record of her afflic-
tions, and then declared, with conviction: “It
is only right that I should lay bare the facts con-
cerning the manner in which I threw off my old
sickness, as by doing so, it will assuredly help
many more towards the same desirable end.”
“ What was your complaint, Mrs. Trusty ? ”
“My kidneys were disordered, without doubt;
and for that matter my internal organs generally
wanted attending to badly. Three years have
passed since, by the aid of Clements Tonic, I
acquired the grand health I now enjoy, and they
.have been three of the happiest years of my life,
for real good health will always bring brightness
and contentment. The aching sensation I had in
my back for long enough was awful. When I sat
down the small of my back caved in, owing to its
being too weak to enable me to sit up straight,
and such a sickly sensation generally was experi-
enced tlgpugh those incessant aches, that I went
about Idee a persofflliving without knowing the
why or wherefore. A dazed, listless, desponderit
feeling was always uppermost. When I looked
out the beauties of Nature were obscured from my
vision, and everything and everybody seemed to
move mechanically, in a dreary sort of way, with-
out, to my dyspeptic view of things, having any
specific reason for doing so. Well, T know now.
that when a person feels like that, as if the uni-
verse is enshrouded in gloom, it is because the
liver and kidneys are out of order.”
“Exactly,” assented the writer. “And then
proper treatment is required.”
“But so many don’t know what the proper
treatment is, and waste their money in search of
it, that I deem it my privilege to put them on the
right track, in the same way that a friend guided
me. It was this way. I was at a lady’s house
one day and was telling her that my appetite had
left me altogether, I was very restless at nights,
usually not falling asleep till it was nearly time
to get up, and when I did I felt more dead than
alive, with a bitter taste, and my tongue all coat-
ed, and feeling very impatient and cross generally,
and working myself up into a state of nervous
excitement all about nothing, when she said :
4 That’s just how I used to be, only I am all right
now, through taking Clements Tonic. I’ve a little
in a bottle left over, and will give you a dose.’
So I drank it, and then bought some on my own
account the same night. Oh ! how nervous I was
—all of a tremble, just like that (here Mrs. Trusty
demonstrated her meaning by shaking her hands
and wrists convulsively), and I would not stay in
the house alone for any money. In addition, there
was a nasty heaviness on my chest after food,
when the stomach felt overloaded even from the
smallest quantity, and each day I was tormented
with violent headaches. When going down the
road I have often had to catch hold of something
to save myself from tumbling down through a
sudden giddiness coming on, and in the fretful,
nervous state of mind I was everlastingly pictur-
ing some dreaci evil transpiring that was shortly
going to overtake me. In my abject misery I did
not care what happened, and when my friend put
me within reach of something to rid me of those
daily persecutions, I thanked God from the bottom
of my heart. Prior to taking up with the remedy
that gave me a new interest in life, that enabled
me to see the sun shining everywhere instead of
desolation being on every hand, I was even denied
the pleasure of reading for any length of time, be-
cause of the haziness that hung before my eyes,
but that trouble went along with the rest when
Clements Tonic had been given a fair chance, and
in due course I was perfectly free from the bur-
den of ills I had carried so long.”
“And have not been troubled by them since?”
“ I am grateful to say that Clements Tonic did
its work thoroughly, leaving nothing undone, and
for the benefit of the sick and afflicted who may
read these words, you may publish them as
you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, MAGGIE TRUSTY, of 37 Lymerston Street, St. Peters,
in the State of New South. Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements —which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing.the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at St. Peters, this twenty-eighth
day of February, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me.
10] WILLIAM DIGBY ROWE, J.p,


“For over 50 years I have.always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
sfd
sfd
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been'
used
first
by the
grand-
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
'Cherry Sectoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., 1). S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
\
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to an' one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade HEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed lohger than any other make
MODELS
£3.10 i to £0.
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delevered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
■wanted in each dis-
trict. Lar e i roflt.
easily made. Write u. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
on sample machine. ,
MEAD CYCLE C0„ i,,, 2ko LIVERPOOL.
Women’s Labour Union.
One hour of an Australian woman’s time
should be and is worth more than the
value of a bar of soap. If a woman can
buy a tablet of soap that will save, her
one hour alone of labour per day she has
he soap for nothing'. Sunlight Soap, used
ini the Sunlight' way,, will save much more
than an hour m the day. Try one Tablet
and note directions on the Wrapper. You
will be pleased with the royals, and you
will surely join the Women's Sunlight
Labour Ur or*
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
At
break.
fa s t
time or
supper time
Horlick’s
Mailed Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared m a minute,
and- requires no cooking.
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horllck’s Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
ness.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Borlick’s Food Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
Creates a beautiful complexion.
POMEROY
SKIN FOOD
Penetrates the cuticle, feeds the subcu-
taneous tissue, renews the vitality of the
' skin, fills out the lines and hollows and
restores its youthful appearance.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, or
from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old Bond
Street, London, England.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
IRISH
6
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . ,
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, J-
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
sfd
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
Fr
It’s so simple!
to make just as much or as little pure, fresh soda*
water as you want, just when you want it* wherever
you may be. All you need'are a
“Prana”Sparklet Syphon,
“Prana” Sparklet Bulbs,
and some water. The latter you
can always get.
For sale by all Stores, Ironmongers,
&c., throughout Australasia.
For full particulars apply to any of the
undermentioned firms, who will give you
the name and address of your nearest dealer.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Sydney and Brisbane; Rocke, Tompsitt
G. "Wood, Son & Co., Adelaide; G. P. Harris, Scarfe
Alfred Shaw, Ltd., Townsville.
Sole Makers: Aerators* Ltd.* ** Prana ” Sparklet
& Co., Melbourne;
& Co,, Fremantle;
Works* London.
00
rrr
Tr
rrr
1118 il
rrr
rrr
o
rrr,
Free-
Sample
Write Today
MOOFIJVG
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or the
p;n-holed metal with Congo and end the trouble !
It won't take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it down !
Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to remind
.you of it.
We call Congo the “NEVER=LEAK ROOF.” We mean it. .
Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., ane
For Sale by C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co ,
Melbourne; Ceorgre Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
London
Ltd.,
Karri
1801 Longevity —lBOB
Famous Centenarians.
Length of years is commoner than of old —centenarians are
on the increase. This is partly due to greater enlightenment in
matters of hygiene, but not a little to those famous centenarians,
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, which have been regularly prescribed
by the medical profession since the year 1801. Truly a glorious
record! They are simply unrivalled as a remedy for all dis-
orders of the liver, stomach and bowels.
e
□
KL
I
Dll I C
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
fits'
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
iIOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Ctieltentiam, England
Agents-Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Alone.
When reaping dreams in lonely lands
Where such are sown,
We yearn erstwhile for clinging hands
To hold our own ;
Against known loneliness we stake
The chance unknown
Of love —afraid our chance to take
All alone.
Craved kisses, quaffed from living lips
To us appear
Than all our spirit comradeships
More keenly dear;
Though staunch our souls, they feel afresh
In Love’s bright bowers
The thrill and throb of fevered flesh
That burns on ours.
We turn aside from work half done,
From tasks new set,
From each emprise ere it be won,
To ponder yet
On some strange woman’s waiting eyes,
Though well aware •
That in our labor and its prize
She has no share.
Yet still her witcheries endure,
Her spell survives,
In wanton wise, a lasting lure
Through all our lives ;
We sink in sleep our soul’s unrest,
Our hearts’ long drouth,
And wake to want her woman’s breast,
Her woman’s mouth.
But, though we dream in lonely lands,
Our dreams have shown
A man needs naught but his two hands
To hold his own ;
’Twere best for him to grind the grain,
Or lay the stone,
Or forge the sword, or weld the chain
All alone.
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.
In Heaven.
In Heaven, they say, there is no love
Betwixt the sexes, Clara dear—
The awful thought makes me regard
The gates of Death with ghastly fear.
Without you, Love, Elysium
A dreary, dreary place would be,
Deprived of your companionship
I’d weary of eternity.
The glory of your steadfast love
Would gild the rolling ages, queen.
The joy of your society’s
The greatest Heaven itself has seen.
I would not swell the rolling flood
Of choral music round the Throne,
But far amidst the Asphodel
Wander with you, my queen, alone.
A Heaven with you, my love, would make
A garden, fair eternally ;
Without you, dear t I could not bear
The weight of Immortality.
N.S.W.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
Lurline.
She leans across the lifting sea,
And beckons where I dare not go ;
Her eyes are dark with mystery,
Her swelling bosom white as snow.
With witching turn of rounded arm,
She braids each foam-empearlbd tress ;
Her every movement has its charm
Of nameless grace and loveliness.
In scorn she wreathes her scarlet lips,
And veils her amorous-lidded eyes;
The curving glories of her hips
An artist’s waking dream defies.
Where lazy combers break above,
And cruel rocks lie black below,
She holds her Ocean Court of Love,
And beckons where I dare not go.
She calls me forth when breaks the day,
And sea and sky in splendor meet;
Across the clouds of silver spray
Her siren voice comes low and sweet.
When night comes down upon the deep.
And great white stars the heavens fill,
It seems within my troubled sleep
I hear her calling—calling still.
The darkness of the blackest night,
Hides not the spirit of my dream ;
Her floating robes of lambent light
With phosphorescent glories gleam.
Where Ocean’s vasty caverns yawn,
From depths profound her subjects rise,
And hold high revel till the dawn,
Mute homage in their wondering eyes.
And still she calls with cruel lips,
And bares her swelling breasts of snow,
Though gaunt grey ribs of stricken ships
Lie rotting on the reef below.
In vain she looks her scorn at me,
In vain she strives to break my will—
She leans across the lifting sea,
And beckons—ever beckons still.
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


ARCHITECT
SPECIFIES
m%
X)
c
&L
B-W
Vr , .^K a, ™ arC J hi, ?, C \> E rac,lcal experience has taught'
I*W , l he Wunderli ch Designs embossed in Metal are
the ideal form for ceilings and wall-linings.
They looK better and last longer than the old-fashioned
style and never give any trouble.
For decorative purposes they are wonderfully adaptable
and lend themselves to endless color combinations.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms;
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms;
243 COLLINS ST.
iThe'lSjSsen ce qfVjfY'Sli tjy
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
lull, genuine cocoa flavour.
SUPPORTS
MILLION S
can strop the Auto Strop Safety Razor. For that
1 reason shaving with it is most delightful and easy. It
explains also why the Auto Strop is so much better than any of
the “ no-stropping ” kind of safety razors. Shave each morning
with the
AutO'Strop
SAFETY
if you would know what real shaving comfort is.
The Auto Strop Safety Razor with 12 blades of finest steel, special
Horse-hide strop, in case complete, 2S/m nett.
Agents. u*r jLvh'.nufacciirers-" •
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
sfd
sfd
English
Prize Awards.-London 1851. Paris 1881
London 1862. Melbourne 1888, Kihberlet 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
(HAMS
LON DON
-© • s
Watch es
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
ATTRACTIVE CHEAP QUEENSLAND FREEHOLDS.
5 MILES FROM BRISBANE. —5OB acres, 200 acres being: splendid agricultural land, balance first-class
grazing land, permanent water, well improved, fenced, subdivided, 40 acres cultivation, 40 cows in
profit. 755. per acre.
5 MILES FROM CITY, FREEZING WORKS, Etc.—15,380 acres freehold, rich alluvial soil, well grassed,
black soil and ridges, river frontage, lagoons, fenced, good house, would fatten 600 to 800 bullocks
annually. 40s. per acre. Good terms.
13 MILES FROM SOUTHERN AND WESTERN L1NE.—2230 acres, 1000 acres light scrub, balance plains,
frontage to creek, also well, windmill, fenced (new), five paddocks, 1800 lambing ewes given in. 70s.
per acre. Freehold. Good terms.
3 MILES FROM DALBY.—4O2B acres, freehold, rich black soil, box and myali, permanently watered by
wells, with mills and reservoirs, securely fenced, good residence, yards, woolshed, etc., splendid
property, recommend inspection. 84s. per acre.
For further particulars, apply to
NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD.,
Stock, Land and Property Salesmen, BRISBANE.
The Carring'ton Hotel,
Katoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Bs. to lOs. per Day.
£2 ss. to £2 16s. per WeeK.
. Matchless •Scenery.
A. L. PEACOCK, Proprietor.
Ideal Climate
DOES NOT UNSTEADY THE NERVES
PERFECTION
THE
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plugs, or Cut Up in Tins, 2ozs. and 4ozs.
*
§3
e
EDUCATION
B P.O S T
-2£=i
l J repare for a Cood Position! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWINC
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE
— SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay *
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
sfd
5*5
r>
*
O'. 5 *; = ?■£
O
r? - •■
7
*
*2
CZ:
i - 7
OP
O
* is
cr
0
*
0
u\
a
<&
s> '
r*
s O
C?
{£
*2
cr
NOW is the
time to try
sfd
sfd
sfd
To be obtained
from all
Storekeepers/
or wholesale
from
E. Rich s Co.
Ltd.,
SYDNEY and
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered ac the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30. No. 1508.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 1909.
PIUOB 6d
ON THE HEAT-WAVE DAY.
BILL LYNE (with his feet in the Snowy River at Dalgety): “THANK HEAVEN, THERE IS STILL ONE HABITABLE PLACE IN N.S.W.”
(N.B.—'The picture in the north-east corner represents the proposed Federal capital site at Yassberra on the same day. The heat was a hundred
and numerous in the shade, and the damage by bush-fires is set down at £100,000.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Jliik Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annuvi ... ... ' ... g g
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
sending - direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director,
it oir to A ddress Bettors.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. ’The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special. Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inn tours in Itlacl: anti, lt'hit, e.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bulletin original humorous
■ or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludyate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 liiyh Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News'Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. — The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., llong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size G fi.n. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 7, 1909.
A FEDERAL CAPITAL REFERENDUM.
One day this month Prime Minister Fisher is to
call on his constituents and expound his pro-
gramme for next session, and so far as concerns at
least one matter —the Australian capital—quite a
number of people will await that programme with
interest. For on this matter a great effort is
being made to sell the rights and interests of Aus-
tralia, and if the party which Andrew Fisher
leads is to be judged by the apparent meaning of
its recent actions it is taking a most regrettable
part in the sale —or the betrayal, whichever it
may be called. The question of the Federal
capital site was all along a struggle between the
principles which the Fisher party is sup-
posed to stand for and those represented
by its worst enemies. . On one side there
was the idea of using the establishment
of the Australian metropolis as a means
of peopling some of the country’s empty spaces
and relieving the congestion of population ; the
idea of placing the capital where it would have
every chance, by reason of unlimited waterpower,
to become a great manufacturing city, in which
artisans would work under the best conditions
which could be devised by the most democratic
Parliament in the world ; the dream of an exten-
sive Federal territory on which could be made a
splendid experiment in the national ownership of
land ; and the hope for a metropolis which would
be far enough away from both Sydney and Mel-
bourne to be free of the blight of Wades and
Bents and suchlike folk, and from the evil in-
fluences of the Herald and Telegraph and
Argus, and of State politicians and parish-minded
publications in general—a place which, by reason
of its position, must needs create an influential
press of its own, reared under democratic con-
ditions and in a democratic atmosphere.
That was one side of the case. The other
was represented by the party which wanted
to use the new capital as a means of further con-
gesting what is already the most densely peopled
section of Australia; which advocated a small
Federal territory in order that most of the un-
earned increment might go to the private landlord
outside the Federal border; which desired to
plant the capital where there would be no special
facilities for manufactures because the growth of
a great industrial population under Federal rule
would almost certainly lead to the control by the
Commonwealth of all industrial legislation ; which
wanted a capital which would have no sturdy life
of its own, but would be a mere appanage of Syd-
ney, dependent on Wade or his kind for its water
supply and its means of communication, and
taking its politics from the Telegraph and the
tIERALp. And when Andrew Fisher expounds
ms policy he may possibly find time to explain
now his party came to throw in its lot with all
these lory influences.
* * * *
A curious pretence has been made that the
.Labor caucus decided to give a solid support to
the Yassberra capital because Parliament had
selected Yassberra, and it, therefore, naturally
felt itself bound to accept Parliament’s decision.
■c a f- were so ’ then the natural inference is that,
if Parliament should vote, in some insane moment,
for black labor, for an anti-land-tax policy, or for
the abolition of adult suffrage, the Labor caucus
will feel bound to accept its decision as final, and
to give a solid vote thereafter for black labor, a
property suffrage, and no land-tax. But the story
about feeling bound by Parliament’s decision is
too thin. When the decision stood for
Dalgety—and it stood for four years—the
Labor caucus didn’t decide that it was
bound to respect the decision of Parliament and
vote solidly for the site which Parliament had
selected. The bulk of the party made no secret
of the fact that it regarded Dalgety as far the best
available spot in the interests of Australia. But
then there was no Labor seat anywhere near Dal-
gety, and consequently no Labor member who
was liable to lose his billet if the party went back'
on the Monaro selection. And on the other hand
it was supposed that the constituents of Watson,
Hughes, Hall, etc., would prefer a capital like
Yassberra right at their doors. So there was no
solidarity on the question, and the caucus didn’t
worry about the best interests of Australia or
about any excessive respect for the decision of
Parliament; and every Labor member whose idea
was that the capital should be as near his own
political door as possible was allowed to holler
for any place he pleased. It was the votes
and the influence of the Laborites who hol-
lered for the place nearest to their own doors
which annulled the selection of Dalgety and sub-
stituted Yassberra. Then the caucus took a new
view of its responsibilities. When it was merely
a case of supporting the place that seemed the
best in the interests of Australia, the party didn’t
feel compelled to give a unanimous vote in sup-
port of the decision of Parliament. When it be-
came a question of supporting the site which was
as close as possible to the largest possible number
of Labor constituencies, it did. That resolute re-
solve to squash all opposition inside the party as
soon as the capital site was fixed at a most un-
suitable place in a Labor man’s electorate, and
close up to a number of other Labor electorates,
will require a heap of explanation.
■***•*
One method of explanation which has already
been tried is to the effect that the party took a
bad site because it was the best it could get. It
would be more honest to add half-a-dozen words
to the exposition, and say : “ The best it could get
without a risk of losing office.” If that is to be the
reason, then it is to be sincerely hoped there
won’t some day arise a Labor Government which
will follow the same precedent on another matter,
and vote for a moderate Chinese influx policy
because it is the best policy it can get without a
risk of losing office. But this bad explanation
won’t even hold the small amount —a pint or
thereabouts—of water which it pretends to hold.
It was because the Labor party didn’t make the
upholding of the original decision of Parliament a
party question, and because it allowed as many of
its members as felt that way to ally themselves
with the Tory press, the State Frights, the anti-
Australians, the anti-Socialists, the anti-Federal-
ists, the Congested Population party, the parish-
minded crowd which thinks a Federal capital
should exist, not for the greatness and glory of Aus-
tralia, but for the benefit of the N.S.W. landlords
and the importers and traders of Sydney—it was
because of this that the original selection was upset,
though it was upset by a very small majority.
And then this result, brought about by a section
of the party voting the Tory ticket, was made an
excuse for deciding that all the party should vote
the Tory ticket, and go solidly with the State
Frights, the anti-Australians, anti-Socialists,
anti-Federalists, the Congested Population party,
and the crowd which upholds the interests of the
N.S.W. landlords and the Sydney importers.
The more the matter is looked at the less easy
does it become to imagine any explanation that
looks like holding water, though explanations
which will contain mud seem plentiful enough.
And when Andrew Fisher is expounding his
views he would do well to say something about
the referendum as applied to this particular case,
and about the “spirit of the Constitution.” The
spirit of the Constitution is a matter about which
an immense amount has been heard in recent
years. The Constitution says in the simplest and
plainest terms that the Seat of Government shall
be in N.S.W. and not within 100 miles of Sydney.
It may be any greater distance from Sydney pro-
vided it doesn’t slop over the N.S.W. border into
some other State, but that 100-miles radius is
strictly barred. For at least four years there has
been a continuous roar in Tory circles to the
effect that the “spirit of the Constitution ” de-
mands that the capital shall be as near the 100-
miles line as possible ; there is no word or letter
or hint or suggestion of this in the deed of union
which the nation signed, but the roar has been
continuous none the less. Now Australia is
offered a Federal territory which is to be a very
little over 100 miles in a bee-line from Sydney at
one end, and only 87 miles from that city
at the other end. If there is any “spirit
of the Constitution ” at all, this bargain
is against it, and it is far from cer-
tain that it isn’t against the letter of
the Constitution also ; that is probably a matter
which the High Court will have to decide
later on. In any case it represents a mean, un-
generous, unscrupulous reaching out for the last
possible copper of profit, and is utterly disgraceful
in every respect. The bargain which placed the
capital inside N.S.W. was based on the shabby
fraud of certain political disreputables—the fraud
which annulled the popular vote whereby the
people of N.S.W. accepted the original Constitu-
tion. And this effort to grind the last available
farthing of profit for the Sydney importers out of
the fraud, even at the risk of giving the Common-
wealth a port which it can’t legally hold, and
putting the Federal capital where it may be de-
pendent on Wade’s charity for a drink of water,
is something extra in the way of meanness.
If this is not a case in which the people ought to be
consulted, it is difficult to imagine that they should
ever be consulted at all. The Constitution is the
people’s property, and can’t be altered without
their consent; and the proposed Yassberra-Jervis
Bay Federal territory comes very near to being
an alteration, if it doesn’t actually arrive there.
YVhen the law says that the seat of Government
is to be at least 100 miles from a certain spot, and
the tail end of the seat is only 87 miles away, it is a
serious taking of chances. The case is one in
which a legal opinion is very little consolation.
If, after Australia has spent one or two or three
millions on its capital and its Federal port, it is
warned off the grass by the only authority whose
opinion counts for anything in the matter—the
High Court—a great many people will cheerfully
go and deposit decaying vegetable substances on
Andrew Fisher’s political grave.
* * * *
Of course, if a referendum is held to decide the
location of the capital, and the people choose to
take the risk of selecting the Yassberra-Jervis
Bay site, that will be another matter. The people
have a right to take any chances they please. But
apparently the last idea in the mind of the Fisher
Government is to let the people have a voice in
the matter. There is no talk of a referendum on
this new proposal which has been sprung on the
public ; and there seems to be a powerful anxiety
to commit the country beyond recall before it can
even give a feeble and uncertain expression of its
views at a general election. The assurances of
the wily Attorney-General Hughes, who is fast
developing into the evil genius of the party, that
the matter will be pushed on with all possible
velocity, distinctly point that way. It is a strange
devious business all through—the utter incapacity
of the party to see any special obligation to
unanimously accept the decision of Parliament
when the selected capital was in Chapman’s elec-
torate, and had nothing save its merits to recom-
mend it; the haste to be unanimously bound by the
decision of Parliament when a small majority,
created by Labor votes and Labor influences,
selected a new site in Labor member Hall’s
electorate, and as close as possible to the electo-
rates of Labor members Watson and Hughes ;
and the blank inability to notice any points or
advantages about the referendum in this case, no
matter how good the referendum may be in other
cases. Yet the chances are that, in the end, all
this deviousness won’t pay. When the Federal
territory is cut out of David Hall’s electorate there
will probably be a redistribution of things, and
David Hall may be left without any electorate.
If there is to be a real port at Jervis Bay,
Hughes’ waterside constituents can’t help having
a dark suspicion some day that it is put there to
intercept trade that used to come to Sydney, and
that it is interfering with their jobs, and then they
may not like Hughes any longer ; while if the
Federal port at Jervis Bay proves to be merely
a lie and a fraud, quite a lot of people won’t like
Hughes and his mates any more. And there is
no evidence that J. (A Watson’s constituents
care twopence about Yassberra. In fact, it is
more than probable that all the unfortunate cir-
cuitousness will not only bring no reward to the
people who circuited, but will pan out as a dead
loss.
WHAT THE LORD WOULD NOT DO.
The recent hired or cash unpleasantness between
Mr. Johnson and Mr. Burns has led to an out-
break of snuffle such as Sydney probably never
experienced before. Sydney used to be a cheerful
and rather Pagan city, but of late years it has
been afflicted to an alarming extent with “Goo-
fearing Ministries” and narrowness and cant.
This outbreak of alleged religion has produced no
visible effect in the directions where it is most
wanted ; there is, for instance, no more sign than
there was years ago of a tendency to decency,
truth or fair-dealing on the part of the State
Government towards the Commonwealth ; the big
landlord hangs on to his ill-gotten province with
all the old ferocity, not caring even if the multi-
tude of his fellow creatures starve ; the Church
still puts its black-clothed legs under the table of
the rich sweater, and has all its old doubts lest
the policy of the Labor party, in trying to secure
a minimum wage, should be evidence of an undue
hankering after the things of this world ; and in a
general way the obtrusively pious elements of the
community are as objectionable as ever. But the
wave of piety has fallen like an avalanche on those
who sell gingerbeer on Sunday; and it is like a
lion in its fury against boxing matches—regardless
of the fact that both Burns and Johnson were
walking about, the morning after their encounter,
in first-class health and condition. The daily
papers have reeked with the letters of shocked
moralists, and among them this extract, from
the epistle of one who signed himself “ Christian
Endeavorer,” about sums up the case :
As a Christian Endeavorer, I ask this question:—
Would Jesus Christ, the fairest and noblest man that
ever lived, act as referee or be present at that fight? The
answer comes instantly—No. Then we want nothing in
our midst that the Lord Jesus Christ Himself cannot
take part in. The man that does not put Him in the
front rank of his everyday life will make that life a failure
in this world and in the world to come. Christian people
and Endeavorers were asked at different periods to vote
for the present Government. A deputation of Christian
men waited on the Premier, asking him not to allow the
fight to take place ; but, like Pilate, he knew what was
right, but was afraid to do it. The leader of the Opposi-
tion is or was a superintendent of a Sunday-school. Did
this “ scientific boxing ” take place with his approval ?...
I hope that the governing bod\ r of the Christian Endea-
vor Societies and the Council of the Churches will so
arrange matters for the next Parliamentary election that
the people will be asked to vote for only Christian candi-
dates. It has often been said, “Don’t bring religion
into politics ” ; but this is a mistake. Politics without
Jesus Christ is a failure. Politics with Him in it
becomes like the life of a man who has found Him—
honest and pure.
* * * *
The question at the beginning of that paragraph
expresses in full the attitude of the black-coated,
top-hatted variety of pietist. Would the Lord,
when he was on earth, have acted as referee or
been present at that fight ? Perhaps He would.
Perhaps He was present at very similar proceed-
ings. The Greeks and Romans both regr rded box-
ing asalegitimatesport,and it wasalmos certainly
practised at times among the Imperial soldiery in
Palestine. So long as it was fairly conducted
there seems no special reason why the Lord
should not have been present, and there is also no
special visible reason why He shouldn’t have acted
as referee. In fact, He may have done so; the
Scripture says nothing one way or the other.
The Lord did many things that his more narrow-
minded followers wouldn’t think of doing. Canon
Boyce probably wouldn’t turn water into wine to
save his life, even if the miracle were within his
power; but it is recorded that the Lord did that
deed. Archbishop Smith, of Sydney, would almost
certainly draw the line at sitting down to dinner
with a water-rate or dog-tax collector; but a much
greater than he ate with publicans. Possibly
boxing may be a sin, but if so it is one of the
upstanding sins against which the New Testament
makes little complaint; that volume is mostly
occupied with denunciations of the small, mean,
stunted, money-getting, black-coated, top-hatted
sins. In the boxing game nobody is hit save by his
own consent, for he goes to the ring to be hit; and
nobody keeps on being hit a second longer than
he wants to, for he can end the trouble at any
moment by lying down. And if he insists on
being hit longer than seems advisable the police
stop the game. Boxing isn’t like money-lending,
or the floating of wild-cat mines, or the raising of
rents, or the sale of shoddy as good material, or
the writing of lying letters to the press, or the
locking-out of workmen in order to reduce wages,
or the land-booming business, or adulteration, or
being an importer and trying to destroy Austra-
lian industries lest they should interfere with the
importing trade, or like stock exchange jobbery and
robbery, or things of that kind. In these cases the
person who is hit has no voice in the matter ; he
has no equal chance to win the stakes ; when he
lies down to intimate that he has had enough the
other party doesn’t immediately leave off his evil
practices ; there are no recognised and published
rules ; and the attacking party is just as ready to
hit the defendant’s wife and baby as to hit the
visible defendant himself. Would the Lord act
as referee at a boxing match of the Burns-Johnson
description? Perhaps He would not, but He
would be much more likely to do that than
to have any hand in a drapery importing
business in which the ill-paid employees are
dragged back at night to work overtime without
any extra remuneration ; or a rich bank where
the teller gets £l5O per annum after 12 years’
faithful service; or a shipping concern which
sends a tug-boat to sea with one certificated
officer, who must either remain awake 24 hours
per day or run the risk of losing his certificate
through unlawfully leaving the vessel in charge of
a deck-hand or ship’s rouseabout.
* # * •
There are many more things that the Lord, if
we can judge by His own words, wouldn’t do. He
wouldn’t have introduced that shameful and dis-
graceful Bill which J. C. Neild devised, or at
least supported, to break the agreement with the
other States and raise the minimum vote required
for the acceptance of the Federal Constitution
from 50,000 to 80,000, for He was scrupu-
lously fair in all His dealings. He wouldn’t
have worked the swindle that George Reid
worked, to get the Federal capital fixed
in N.S.W. He wouldn’t have written the
letter which Senator Walker wrote, declaring
that the people of N. S. Wales would never have
joined the Commonwealth unless the capital was
fixed in their own State, seeing that Senator
Walker knew perfectly well that the people of
N.S.W. gave a majority for the Constitution when
it contained no such stipulation. He wouldn’t
have denounced the selected Federal capital as
Carruthers did, first on the ground that the
chosen territory was so rich and populous that
N.S.W. couldn’t part with it; and second, on the
assertion that it was so poor and empty and barren
as to be quite unfit. He wouldn’t have stolen the
wire netting like Carruthers, nor would he have
gone to law on a bad case like Wade, over an
aged Civil servant’s pension. He wouldn’t be an
an ti-Federal daily paper editor who cheerfully pub-
lished letters containing the vilest lies and slanders
directed against the Commonwealth, and sup-
pressed all replies. He wouldn’t declare that the
Federal capital site in his own electorate was
the best site when he knew it wasn’t. Nor
would he be a jerry-builder; nor the proprietor
of slum property; nor the owner of the great
empty Bibbenluke estate ; nor one of the big,
rack-renting landlords of Western Victoria. He
wouldn’t write leading articles full of misrepre-
sentation of the Arbitration Act; nor urge the
Victorian electors to vote for Bent ; nor be a
lying society female in a big hat telling people at
election time that if the Labor party got into
power their homes and furniture would be con-
fiscated. He wouldn’t be a time-serving parson
assuring the public that the sugar industry
couldn’t get along without Kanaka labor when he
knew perfectly well that it could, and simply
wished to curry favor with the rich planter. And
He almost certainly wouldn’t call himself a bishop,
and date his letters from a “palace,” and allow
rich sweaters and usurers and slum landlords and
the owners of big estates acquired by dummying
to be pillars of the Church.
* * * *
But whether He would or would not have acted
as referee at a fairly-conducted boxing match,
this paper still doesn’t profess to know. Boxing
isn’t like coursing, or pigeon-shooting, or horse-
racing, or even like the villainous practice of
keeping birds in a cage, in all of which pro-
ceedings one animal has no voice in the
matter. It presents no resemblance to the mur-
derous practice of selling adulterated milk, which
knocks out the infant without the infant even
knowing what hit him—or her. It isn’t like the
disgraceful sin of overstocking a run in good
seasons regardless of the fact that, as soon as
drought comes, hundreds of animals must die
horribly of hunger and thirst. It isn’t like
money-lending either, in which game the com-
pound interest smites the defendant from behind
and gives him no show to smite back. Compared
to the spectacle of a prelate conducting an un-
seemly wrangle in order to get the longest possible
distance for Is. out of an ill-paid cabman and a
badly-fed horse, boxing is a fine, manly, generous,
upstanding pursuit. No one can imagine the
Lord wrangling with a view to getting the
longest possible run out of an ill-fed horse for a
shilling. Nor can anyone picture Him ticketing
Australian goods as “ imported ”; nor issuing a
glowing bank balance-sheet just before the insti-
tution suspended and wrote off one or two or four
millions as lost ; nor struggling after such
huge profits as do the Sydney Ferries Co.
and the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.; nor putting
a bogus “goodwill” item into the accounts, as
some other concerns do; nor fighting like a
demon, as Wade did, to prevent the Labor party
raising the proposed minimum wage of the little
shopgirl from 4s. to ss. per week. These things
and a thousand others seem absolutely impossible.
But the matter of being present at a match where
two sober, clean-living and probably moral men
hit each other by mutual agreement, it being
understood that either can retire whenever he
pleases, that neither shall be hit when he is down,
and that the Law is present to stop proceedings if
any serious brutality becomes apparent, is a dif-
ferent matter. Between that venial matter and
the grinding out for years and years of a clerk’s
life and soul at a starvation wage there is a great
gulf fixed. Yet Gregory Wade, the head of a
GoD-fearing Ministry, and a man who is much
shocked about boxing, refuses to bring clerks
under the N.S.W. Industrial Disputes law.
And there are preachers—horrible, disgraceful
preachers—who take that starved clerk’s employer
to the bosom of the church, and joyfully accept
his tainted money, and call him blessed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Heat Wave and a Cool Day on Monaro.
“Henry Horsecollar” writes: Last Sunday
the thermometer climbed to 113° in the shade on
my verandah at Strathfield, one of Sydney’s
prettiest residential suburbs ; and my rooster fell
down dead at his post; and my large hairy dog
crawled round piteously looking for ice to put on
his head ; and the pathos ot the small birds which
were falling dead or insensible moved me to go
out and turn the hose on sundry shady spots to
make some cool damp places of refuge where the


fowl of the air might lie low and-await the course
of events. That day I read in an old “tab tha
the real name of Yass—in the neighborhood ofthe
proposed Yassberra Federal capital is x anrs,
and that Yahrs is an aboriginal expression, mean-
ing “extremes,” and signifying that the place is
very cold in winter, while in summer it is like
Sheol with the lid off. Then I thought in a casual
sort of way of a summer day I once put in at
Dalgetv. It was hot enough, yet at intervals
a cool breeze stole down from the great
mountains where the everlasting snows are stole
down like a footless ghost with iced beer in both
hands and healing on its wings. And the Snowy
River was cool, for I bathed in it—cool and clean
and swift and drinkable. And the pub was cool,
for I kept a window open —a window that looked
towards the mountains —so that the ghostly
breeze might creep in. And when the sun went
down the evening and the i■ • 1 1 1 were cool, and I
slept even as the dead slec -nd in the morning
I woke up refreshed even man might wake up
at the general resurrect of the dead. After
thinking of these thin £ went out into my
garden at Strathfield, at /uried my faithful dead
rooster, and poured tw< mkets of water over the
panting dog, and urgei m dispirited cow to bear
up, and hosed some ni> . • shady places under the
trees to make cool harbors of refuge for the
birds with pools where they might drink.
And having done these things I went indoors
again, and drank hot beer, and read once more
that statement in the ancient crumpled Star to
the effect that Yass ought really to be called
Yahrs, and that Yahrs signifies that the place
is very cold in winter, while in summer it is
like the burning footprints of the Devil.
+
The Strike and the Lockout.
Whenever Fat or Fat’s ignorant or unscrupulous
barrackers wanted to throw a specially heavy
clod at the old and generally satisfactory Arbitra-
tion Act in N. S. Wales, the yarn was told that it
was grotesquely lop-sided. The employer having
property was, it was said, compelled to pay a
fine for breach of an award, while the worker in
many cases had no property, and so escaped ; also,
the worker, being dissatisfied with an award, was
able to quit that job on one pretext or another, so
that the only award really carried out was the one
that went against the employer and in favor
of the workman. The employer, it was
said, couldn’t shift his shop or his works;
but the workman could shift his labor at a
minute’s notice and in a penny tram. The “argu-
ment ” appealed to thousands, and helped to
destroy the Act in N.S.W. Like most of the
means used, the argument was rotten. It is per-
fectly true that in most cases an employer can t
remove his shop or works ; but in most cases he
ean, wholly or partly, shut the business up, and,
though lockouts be prohibited, not once in a
dozen times can the shutting-up be proved to be
a lockout. The point has been raised through
the decision of the Broken Hill miners to call the
shutting-up of the big mine there a lockout. The
owners profess to be quite surprised at the word ;
they say they simply can’t work on the old scale,
and so must close down till they can make a num-
ber of necessary changes. Really, the case of the
Broken Hill Prop, is not as bad as that of the
neighboring British mine, which, in spite of the
fact that an Arbitration award was then in exist-
ence, was practically shut down all through 1907.
The unions did not, however, haul the co. before
the Court; they knew it was useless. Maoriland
experience is quite enough to satisfy them of that.
The lately-published 17th annual report of the
M.L. Department of Labor mentions that during
the year every case of “creating a lockout
failed. The employer was always able to put for-
ward some excuse for closing down his concern
he wanted to alter the machinery, or the works,
or men weren’t available for some special and
necessary part of the business. The fact that
employers can defeat the law, as well as em-
ployees, doesn’t perhaps say much for the law ; it
does, however, relieve it of the charge of being
lop-sided. And that was the charge on which it
was sand-bagged and thrown into the gutter
mostly hymen who werd hypocrites enough to say
that, while it was the law, of course the law-
abiding employer didn’t and wouldn’t attempt to ;
make a cockshy of it.
♦
“ Un-English.”
A certain James Criss wrote to the Sydney
Morning Herald (29/12/’08) in anticipation of
horrible doings in Sydney on New Years Eye.
Of course the Herald printed his letter. It
always does print letters of that sort. Criss S
point of view resembles that of an English
remittance-men. Criss is shocked at the vulgar
ways of the. people amongst whom he dwells.
Here is his indictment of Sydney’s New Year
revellings: —
All the evening the public are tortured by the horrible
screech horns, ribbald (sic) songs, and roarings of groups
of roughs while toward midnight, when the church ser-
vices are proceeding, - the outside noises are a great
annoyance. At the stroke of twelve the climax is reached
bv a fresh outburst of screech hor' , the firing of bun-
gers ” the violent ringing of the ' shells, and the shrieks
of the siren whistles of the boa. .n the river.
At the worst it wouldn’t impress the normal man
as particularly ghastly ; but Criss is different.
Follows his final heart-cry, which is torn from
him by the fact that on last New Year’s Eve
an unnamed Sydney tradesman had the walls of
his house tarred :
This sort of thing has been endured too patiently and too
long. It is time to put an end to it. This senseless larri-
kin effervescence is not to our credit. It is not English.
During the 30 years I lived in England I never saw or
heard of anything of the kind.
That Criss should live for 30 years in England
and see, during that time, nothing there of the
sort he objects to here, suggests that he is
physically afflicted in some way. The pollution of
buildings by way of a joke, rag, or expres-
sion of opinion is an essentially English practice,
aud it always has been so since Cromwell’s troopers
first took to stabling their horses in cathedrals
and royalist dining halls. It is but a few years
ago that some hundreds of Oxford under-
graduates daubed the walls of “Tom quad, the
largest and stateliest quad of the largest and
stateliest college in all Oxford, with red paint.
Thecleansing of “Tom”quad took time and ahuge
sum of money. As to rioting, there are public
riots in the streets of London on each “ boat race
night,” at each inter-’Varsity football match and
on a dozen other similar occasions, that beat any
of Sydney’s demonstrations out of sight. Anyone
who has stood inside or outside a Leicester
Square Music Hall and watched the Oxford
and Cambridge University men and their
friends, male and female, being “ chucked out
in dozens by the attendants will second the view
that “larrikin effervescence” is by no means con-
fined to Australia. The “ insulting of women
which is charged against Australian youths, and
is held by people who think as Criss does to be
particularly un-English, is not so. Said Pepys
310 years ago
Thence to the New Exchange, and there met Harris
»nA Holt and one Richards, and with these over to Fox
Hall, and there fell into the company of joung Harry
Pilligrew and young: Newport; and others as ve y «
as any in the town, who were ready to take hold of every
woman that come by them.
And Harris and Holt and Richards dive again,
and get up to their old pranks at Hampstead
Heath, Margate, and elsewhere on every British
Bank Holiday. Finally, it is worth quoting
against Criss a few of the Cold Land samples of
“larrikin effervescence” that are recorded in the
current British newspapers. This is from the
Herald’s London Letter last month :
Mr. Randle William Gascoyne Cecil, eldest son of
the Rev. Lord. William Gascoyne Cecil, has been sent
down for a breach of university discipline, the said
breach having consisted of this high-spirited young
gentleman’s action in standing m a°
stones at a window of Balliol College. Detected bj one
of the “clumsy lower-class policemen, he was taken
into custody and to the police-station before his identity
was sufficiently established to permit of his being handed
over to .the proctors.
And this is from the same source
We shall all be on the alert, now, to know the outcome
of the riot at, Cambridge on the night of the Australians
football match, a fortnight ago, when the undergradu-
ates covered themselves with glory by smashing n st
available things in the town, and finished up by firing
some adjacent and particularly inoffensive hayricks.
It may be urged that the above offenders are mere
vouths. Well, here is an account of the perform-
ances of grown men. A political meeting took
place (25/11/’08) at Brentwood (Essex), just out-
side London. The London Morning Leader
(26/11/’08) has this to say
Then a gang of well-dressed rowdies turned up and
forced their way past Mr. Hazelton, who was regulating
the admission. Mr. James Martin, the Liberal agent,
walked down the room, and was seized by the rowdies,
thrown on to the floor, and trampled upon, while at the
same time Mr. Hazelton was thrown out of the meeting.
Unhappily, Mr. Martin, who had a wound in the side
which has never healed-the legacy of an operation—was
seriously injured by his assailants. . , ' '
He sank unconscious into a chair, and was carried on a
stretcher to his lodgings, a few doors away. The doctors
were summoned, and it was not until nearly an hour and
a half later that Mr. Martin recovered consciousness, and
was able to ask for his son. , ~ *
The crowd thronged out into the street. Gangs of
hobbledehoys paraded it, shouting and yelling, and e\ en
assembling outside the cottage, where the victim of their
brutality was lying in the charge of the doctors, yelling
and cheering. So dangerous was the situation that the
police stopped Mr. Dknce’s motor-car a few hundred
yards out of the town, and informed him that it would be
dano-erous to even ride through the place to attend a
meeting that he was to address at Mountnessmg, about a
mile and a half distant.
What would the high-born English Criss have to
sav if that sort of thing occurred in Australia ?
It'is full time Australia’s human imports decided
to drop the cant reproach of “un-Englishism
down a deep ravine and leave it there. About 99
per cent of the local offences that are denounced
as “ un-English ” by visiting Britishers turn out,
on scrutiny, to have been borrowed from the Land
of Fog, and to be here presented in a pathetically
diluted and enfeebled state.
«,
The Things that Don’t Keep the British
Worker Poor.
John. Burns, Freetrader, in an attempt to explain
away the appalling poverty of the workers in the
United Kingdom as compared with the admittedly
prosperous condition of the same class in Pro-
tectionist Germany, said this to the workers last
month :
If Germany does leave us behind, remember that we
have a hundred race meetings in this country and a
thousand golf courses. Germany has a dozen of either.
What right have we to spend £50,000,000 directly and
indirectly in betting and gambling? And what right have
we to cater too much for the enormous concourses which
gather at displays of gladiatorial, professionalised foot-
ball? .... You say here is John Burns with a grant of
£200,000 a year from the Treasury for the purposes of the
unemployed. And vou ask me to make a new Heaven and
anew earth with that £200,000. Why don’t you do it
yourselves with the £50,000,000 y<su waste on drinking,
betting and gambling ?
It affords an instructive lesson re the weakness of
the case for Freetrade in the Cold Land that an
able man like Burns should be reduced to spouting
such demonstrable humbug. True, Britishers do
spend a huge sum each year on betting
and gambling. Also, “enormous coticourses
gather at displays of gladiatorial professionalised
football.” But let the visitor to the United
Kingdom buy a ticket for one of the great London
or provincial football matches; let him proceed
on a racing day to Ascot, Goodwood, Newmarket,
Epsom (at any other than the Summer meeting),
or to Liverpool or Sandown ; for let him get some-
one to put him up for one, of the “ thousand golf
clubs” John Burns mentions. How many bona-
fide working men will he find la vishing their money
in those resorts ? Except in certain parts of the
North of England and the Midlands, where the
moderately welbpaid miner dwells, the manual
worker is the rarest of birds at football displays.
The patrons of these shows are mostly
drawn from the great British middle class. They
are clerks, shop, assistants,, city men. By their
decent black coats, pale faces, and gloved hands
shall you know them. Still less does the British
working man gamble in the only way his statisti-
cian understands the term—viz., on racecourses.
Once in the year (to wit, on Derby Day) he makes
the stretch of road between Claphani (London)
ana the hill at the back of Epsom Town unbear-
able with beer, noise and profanity. It is doubtful
if he bets much even on Derby Day. He regards
it partly as an opportunity for an orgy, partly as
a sort of rite. Only a small number of him,
speaking comparatively, celebrates, and he goes
to no other race meetings in any volume.
Talk of “golf clubs” in connection with
British workers and their poverty is so much
beside the point as hardly to be worth controvert-
ing. The writer lived in Devonshire for a year a
while ago. He there knew able-bodied and in-
telligent men with families—men who had never in
their lives earned more than 9s. a week. They had
never been on a racecourse, never wagered a
farthing anywhere, never seen a gate-money foot-
ball match, and never crossed the portals of a
golf-club. In London the writer has met men of
education, ready and anxious to toil for half a
sovereign a week at anything. These men had no
vices, wanted no amusements, asked nothing but
employment that would enable them to earn the
wherewithal to keeptheir bodies and souls together.
A prominent British Freetrader owned recently
that some 10,000,000 of his compatriots were either
permanently out of a job, or clinging by their nails
to one that didn’t produce a daily square meal.
Is any better explanation of the stone-broke con-
dition of Britain’s submerged fourth needed >
Germany has its unemployables lilm every other
country, but of unemployed in the British sense
he., men competent and willing to do work but
unable to find any—its tariff sees to it that it has very
few The section of the British working-class that
wastes money betting and gambling—the pitmen,
and a few of the better-to-do operatives m “sport-
ing” centres—is negligible in size. The huge
majority knows but one sort of gamble- the
eternal toss-up between the prospect of getting a
job and that of going to the poorhouse. And
the poorhouse wins a great deal too often.
The Land of Sleep and Garbage.
The Sleep-a-Lots of Tasmania must wonder if it’s
an earthquake whenthey read the official reports
of Dr EIkiNGTON, Chief Health Officer of Tas-
mania For their straightforward language the
things he writes are delightful. And when he
doesn’t think even straightforward language can
do justice to the case, he whistles up a camera.
There is a page of photos in the just-issued
“Annual Report of the Department of Health,
1907 8 ” which ought to wake up even the country
and suburban “local authority’’—the dilatory
person into whom the chief officer has to dig his
pen oftenest. “Cesspool and adjacent shallow
well”—with the bucket at the top, nice and
handy in case the enraptured tourist should want
to lump over the picturesque old fence and have
a long drink of the liquid crystal. “Public,tip
and dairy on the same premises, Queenborough
—but now. it seems, through Elkington’s inter-
ference the tip has been covered over, and the
cows deprived of their garbage. “Privy of resi-
dence (seven inmates), Glenorcny water catch-
ment”-so picturesque, yet calculated to make
Glenorchy swear off water, only forthearead that
the alternative milk might have been grown on
the local rubbish tip, or the tubercle farm, or
some other pleasant place. “ Outside the largest
centres,” says the vigorous doctor, “total inertia
or active or passive opposition are the rule in
all sanitary matters.” As to the local medical
officer : .
If he takes his official duties seriously he is apt to be
branded as an alarmist and an unneighborly person. A
nlain-sooken report on some dangerous and filthy nuisance
will probablv result in loss of practice worth much more
than his official salary [usually, by the way, an over-
whelmin'- £lO a vear], or in an attack upon him inspired
bv the indignant' and wholly impenitent offender His
advice is seldom asked on sanitary questions, and still
more seldom accepted, unless it happens to be in accord
with popular views. All reference to local sanitary de-
fects is carefully kept out of the published reports of pro-
ceedings lest it should “give the place a bad name or
drive tourists away.”
Happy tourist! —he doesn’t know half the things
a grateful rural population is prepared to do for
him, even to giving the milk a flavor by grazing
the kine upon the public garbage-tip, or drawing
the water from a cool well with a cesspool all
neighborly beside it.
Labor’s Opportunity.
In spite of its victories, the V ic. Labor party
shows no signs of grasping the chance that has
come its way. It has now 21 pledged members
out of 65 ; Bent and Toryism can count on 22 at the
outside, and therest are mostly favorable to progress
and democracy, and hostile to Bent. Given any-
thing like a workable agreement with these latter
or even with a majority of them, Prendergast
could at once step forward as Premier of a Labor-
Liberal Ministry, like the KIDSTON of yesterday
or the Price of to-day. But instead Prendergast
declares : “We will continue working for our own
platform. . . . One of the first measures that
should be passed is a bill providing for Wages
Boards for miners.” In other words, the Vic.
Labor party doesn’t hope to pass this desirable
law or anything else itself; it only h°P es
squeeze somebody else into passing it. 1 hen, it
it turns out to be a good law, somebody else will
have the credit of passing it; and that credit will
make it harder for the Labor party to get a
majority next time. In most cases, however,
though the Labor party may prod another party
into passing some law, the full effect of the law
isn’t secured because the administration of it is
handed over to somebody who doesn’t really care
two straws for the law ; and the best law ever
passed isn’t of much account if it lies under the
table with the dust accumulating on it, and the
dog burying his surreptitious bones under it.
+.
The Slaughterous Motor.
In Australian cities they don’t collect statistics
showing exactly in what manner the street-killed
people have been jerked across the Jordan, though
no doubt such information could be got by a
tedious examination of cheerless documents at the
Morgue. But in London the police tabulate regu-
larly all varieties of what the rural scribe calls
vehicular accidents, and in recent tables a horrible,
gory case of maiming and killing is made out
against the tooting motor-car. Prom 18J1 to
1904 while the population of London was
jumping higher and higher, the number
of fatal street-accidents in the smoky city
remained practically stationary. In 1891 there
were 147 deaths, and in 1904 there were 155. But
since 1904 the motor has tooted with specially
ureat madness in the Town of Fog, and in IJO7,
which was a Great Motoring Year, the persons
carried from the streets to the slabs numbered
283. This was 128 extra deaths since 1904, and
motor-cars accounted for 44, motor- buses for 33,
motor-cycles for four, and motor-cabs for two.
Tram-cars and vans (the latter being partly
motors) made up the rest of the increase. Acci-
dents which mangled without slaughtering told
the same tale. They increased by over 6000 be-
tween 1904 and 1907 ; motor-cars giving 1.>58
smashes, motor-buses 1108, motor-cycles 274, and
electric tram-cars 2119. The “ safe-and-easy-to
handle” motor d oesn’t come too well out of those re-
cords ; there must be lots of yahoos driving motors
who ought no more to be trusted with the sate-
and-easy ” mechanism than an epileptic barber
with a razor. At the same time, an obvious duty
is cast upon the citizens of large towns to learn to
dodge hurriedly and well. In fact, there are
only two alternatives : either to drop motor-hogs
in Sewn bags into deep water, or to make the Art
of Dodging a compulsory subject in all schools.
+
An Address to the Jury.
“ 0.K.” WRITES :
Gentlemen of the .Jury I bold a brief for Jack John-
son, a colored boxer now standing at the bar of public
opinion, charged with the alleged crime of having in-
flicted corporal punishment on one Tommy Burns.
It has been said, gentlemen, that the big negro m beat-
ing Burns displayed an unsportsmanlike “P'Jit.
“chaffed” and taunted his adversary whilst stoushing
him, and did all in his mighty power to ridicule the
“ championship ” pretensions of the man he had at last
brought face to face with him in the ring. Admitting
the good-humored “ charting ” and taunting, I maintain
that, under the circumstances, they were richly deserved
bvT Burns, Esq. Burns, as far as this country s per-
sonal knowledge of him goes, was the most pretentious
and unsportsmanlike of boxing champions, and should
have been the most unpopular. That he should have
been idolised on account of his color in a contest
with a damie is to me unaccountable. I would
remind the jury that some among them were
content, not so many years back, to regard darkle
Peter Jackson as a duly-qualified Australian boxing
champion of the world. Had Tommy Burns been a con-
temporary of Peter Jackson, and had they fought foi
the championship in Sydney, won d the assembled
multitude have hooted the black man for insisting on he
removal of Tommy’s precious elastic arm-band? Would
they have howled, “ Don’t take it off, Tommy ” or have
roared “ Good boy, Peter, insist on fair play ? Gentle-
men I smile. I only regret that I can’t smile as compre-
hensively as Jack Johnson, the colored person who
restored the manly upright style of flghtmgto the
champion position from winch .crouching Burns, the
florified “ kidney-puncher,” temporarily deposed it.
Let us consider the methods of the late Idol Burns as
a boxer and a tactician—m Australia. He professed to.
be the Heaven-born exponent of a new form of fighting
art He took credit for wondrous skill in pummeluig his
opponents on vital spots at close quarters. He boasted
of his ability to inflict unseen punishment upon tall men
more easily than lie could inflict it oh the shorter ones.
He would if he could, have reduced cha,mpionship fight-
in<>- to a svstem of secret torture, practised in clinches
where self-defence was almost impossible to the less
powerful and less expert jabber. Considered as a kidney
puncher he was the most unmanly art professor that
Australia has ever witnessed. His downfall on that ac-
count alone might well have inspired the Sydney mu U-
tudetowave its hat. But it may be argued that a lot
of latitude in “manliness” is permissible to men viho
live by stoushing one another. In-fighting is all in-
the o-ame nowadays, and the proud professor of kidney
punch might have been a fine, fair-minded sport as regards
what might be called his “ moral tactics in defending
his championship. What were the tactics of Tommy
Burns with Bill Squires and Lang m Australia. He
adopted contemptible means to place them at a great
disadvantage before they could begin to fight him. He
o-ot on their nerves before he started on their kidneys,
f quote from The Bulletin of Sept. 10 last year re the
flight between Burns and Lang m Melbourne .
“ A shilling stage manager informed the docile audience
that T Burns Esq., had unfortunately left his arm-band
at Menzies’ Hotel, but was expecting it to arrive
presently. It was then 45 minutes alter the time when
T. Burns, Esq., should have been performing. If this was
supposed to be a sporting contest, what the Devil had
Tommy’s intentional or unintentional forgetting of ins
precious equipment to do with the rules of the game .
Lang hadn’t contracted to fight Tommy’s arm-band and
wait around in a state of nervous excitement until Tommy
chose to arm himself with the arrangement. But, as the
smaller-salaried member of the co., poor Lang had to
submit to the proceedings of the star. He was piacti-
cally beaten by the long and scandalous dela}”- befoie he
got permission to enter the ring, 50 minutes behind time.
And P there he had to wait cooling his heels for another
seven minutes before the 1 star took the stage. The
* s t,ar ’ was accompanied by about six aides-de-camp and
an imposing portmanteau, or suit-case which same
‘ auvver ’ had been practised on Squires hi Sydne.v. Then
he put some more strain on Bill Lang’s anxiety by-
dawdling and putting on airs of composure, until there
wasn’t one good White Australian in the crowd who
didn’t wish from the bottom of his heart that ''h ( r '!'° d f h ’
unassuming fellow in the opposite corner would lay the
Ca Gentfen PO nf you have, heard what Burns did to Lang
before the fight began. You have yet o learn that he
taunted him with his want of vim after the fight began.
“Wliv don’t you come into the middle and fight, you
coward ? ” said the arm-banded person to the man whose
nerves he had been keeping on the rack.
.ill Johnson merely “chaffed and made light- of
T*™ the overpaid “star,” and the mob went mad
wfth indignation. P Tahmmy’s audible taunts to Lang
were “You coward!” and to Johnson You cur!
What else he said to the fellow who was belting the
championship out of him lias not been reported in the
pres” Nor does it matter. Enough to remind you that
The Capital Question.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is proposed to establish at some central spot in the
Yass-Canberra district a great camp for members of Par-
liament—and presumably their wives and families—who
desire to closely inspect the vague and ill-defined area
chosen by the Federal Legislature as the locality for the
future capital. The camp is expected to have, a big
assembly tent for meals, sleeping tents, attendants tents,
horses for rides over the adjacent land, etc., etc., etc.
in short, it is to be a miniature township under canvas,
established at the expense of the long-suffering taxpayer
at a time When the revenue is declining and every P e 2by
is needed for the Post Office, national defence, etc. J-hs
idea is that the camp shall be open for a month. Daily
paper.
The lonely wind goes sighing o’er the land ;
The sun’s red disc, half buried in the plain,
Stares at the weary pilgrims as they stand,
Bewildered by the dreary rocks and sand,
Beside the loaded wain.
The Night lets down its jet-black hair and sits
In silence on the landscape, stricken dumb,
Whilst a fierce politician wildly hits
A tent-peg, and then smashes into bits
A large and clumsy thumb.
The pallid moon swims in the empty sky
And looks with horror at the tented waste ;
Thinking of men who are about to die
She gazes on it wiih a ’frighted eye
Then on her way makes haste.
Within, the jovial pilgrims sit at ease ;
The darkened Desert sits and moans without
In very apprehensive minor keys,
As if it wondered what the blazes these
People were all about.
The pop of corks, the gurgle cf poured ale,
The ceaseless clatter of the cutlery,
Tell to the list’ning world the cheerful tale
That in this last great duty they’ll not fail
To choose where It shall be !
The Cotter mutters softly in its sleep
With muddy lips of fortune and renown,
Whilst unobtrusively around a heap
Of mid-stream stones it does a snaky creep
With trickle thick and brown.
Amazed, the Desert waits beneath the stars
Por some solution of the problem placed
Upon its chest; the sad, sweet smell of bars
That on its desert nose for ever jars
Haunts all the placid waste.
An empty land—valley, and flat, and hill,
Mountain and meadow—lies at our command.
And yet this sleeping continent we fill
With aimless talk and corks, and say we will
Build on the desert sand.
The endless search the wilderness within,
For the small Parched Spot whereon shall be
The Capital, goes on amid a din
Of food and drink that we who find the tin
Wonder at helplessly.
The politicians like swift nightmares pass
Thro’ the bright, hissing biograph of Fate ;
Gov’ments go in and out again, alas !
No god or devil can turn off the gas
Nor bid the turner wait.
The shadows rush for ever thro’ the night,
The windy ghosts stampede on soundless feet,
And we who are a-weary of the sight
Long for a god to take a hatpin bright
And pin cine to the sheet.
The years go by ; the running sands of Time
Dwindle and fall in an unending stream
The old, brown Tortoise winks amid the slime :
And crawls a little further—like this rhyme—
Whilst the Hare dreams its dream.
N.S.W.
FOE.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
WORKS ARE NOW READY TO RECEIVE.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary),
WORKS;
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
SALE & EXCHANGE LIBRARY for keeping up your
supply of Fresh Subjects. Join it and Save Money.
Send to us or please call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Once more the electors of Victoria hr- >
vindicated their love of liberal polities and tue
square deal. This is, of course, inevitable in any
country where the favorite source of inspiration is
D.C.L. Whisky. As a mental illuminant D.C.L.
has led the way to victory in many a hard-fought
battle for wise progress.*
Si I tem« P rpH thinB: be V ter than abuse t 0 sUng at the
KeSs d **" Who wa3 ,llakin g h onest fun of his
reSise'the feelin? 8 'f ? OCUrr T ed t 0 .V° u to endeavor to
Burns ? th! P°a Jack Johnson in his contest with
Dress for The t r° ored nian had been persecuted in the
would J finH h eekS ? aS u He had been told that his color
fhiof hnd him out when Taiimmy started to hit him in
of 20 000 dp l ?'] H h W v"E to hiS Comer amidsfc the sd enee
k„ w l P |, !i who had come to see him beaten. He
was Vi° dls * n,se ° £ his knowledge-that he
the 20 000o e p r p^ hter a v thenuggety showman whom
for‘‘+'?: U non P ‘ e "’T ldollBln S> and who had stipulated
W wtf’ 0 JO, W V, L r? T lose < ’ before he would consent to meet
w!,! °,7 £6 ’° o0 ’ win or lose *” for a showman who
was practically certain to lose. The pretensions of Burns
from a ridl ? ulous to the light-hearted giant who had come
rhirri „? ler i? a , to ear !? a comparatively paltry £lsoo—a
lbs rr n Joiv hlCh SU , m bad alread y been advanced to pay
fanlUhste a,K v, °}\ er ex P ei)ses - Was it Johnson’s
aulb that Burns had been able to so impose upon the
Australian people that they couldn’t see the absurdity of
the situation? The black man saw it and laughed, but
the injustice of it must have rankled with him somewhat.
It was not Tommy Burns, but Tahmmy the overrated
“fn « K°"bnf AHWMY the £6oo ° “star’’and wondrous
in-fighter, Tahmmy of the arm-band and the suit-case,
enUtTed t™oke? d ' h ® pr ° Ved hin,Self fully
lo conclusion, gentlemen, I maintain that Jack John-
son, the upright negro, fighting, “win or lose,” for the
lean end of the purse, against the crouching Canadian
who had been guaranteed the thick end of it—Johnson
1 maintain, stood for all that is admirable in a dubious
sport, whereas Burns represented all that is unadmirable.
lu his attempt to upset the equanimity of his opponent
in the manager’s room before the fight, Burns was only
repeating the crafty tactics which had served him in his
nghts with Squires and Lano. The crowd, and not
Johnson, should have insisted on the removal of his arm-
band. The crowd should have hooted the managerial
announcement that, “ in the event of the police atoppinq
tne Jight, the referee would at once give a decision ”
seeing that such interference was not to be expected save
in the interests of the overpaid “star.” Does any reason-
|ng juryman suppose that a final knock-out of Johnson
would have been prevented by the police ? Did
the police interfere when Burns had so com-
pletely beaten Lano that he put forward his
face, andl put down his arms, whilst the tall Australian
exhibited his inability to do any damage ? Why, viewed
in the light of Tommy’s subsequent declarations that he
w-as not beaten at all, the stoppage of the fight proves
e i.u er , at tbe one law for Johnson and an-
other law for Burns, or that the latter is a vain boaster.
As for the relative weights and height measurements
of the two men, whereof much has been said in excuse
tor Burns’s defeat, the fact remains that the shorter
fellow was the bigger in the legs, in the waist, and in the
chest, ior the style of fighting which, by his own
doctrine, is the most scientific and effective style, Burns
was actually the stronger man. He claimed to be the
champion of the world, he demanded £6OOO on the
strength of his claim, he professed a contempt for upright
boxing. On the other hand, Jack Johnson undertook to
prove for £l5OO that the £6OOO Burns was no champion
either in physique or method of fighting. Gentlemen of
the jury, I propose three cheers for the black gentleman
who burst the bubble reputation.
Portland Again.
“ 0.K.” re a nearly-dead harbor
The Bulletin of November 5 had something to say about
the sm of allowing Portland (Vic.) to remain moribund in
.^l?i’ eres *’ s congested Melbourne: “Its population
in 1901 was only 2155 people. It had 2284 in 1891, so it is
a dying town with its chances behind it, unless some-
thing is done.” Now I find, in referring to J. J. Miller’s
Date Book, that poor old Portland has buried 85
members of its congregation within the past few
years, and the present estimated number of in-
habitants is only 2100. Seemingly Portland would
have been quite dead by this time but for the local
meat freezing works. Twelve months ago I was aboard
a vessel of the Federal Line which happened to call at
this neglected port to take on some frozen cargo for
Britain. The big ship (11,000 tons) was said to be the
biggest that had ever come alongside the pier, and the
gaping residents of the one-time whaling station (where
the Hentys made a settlement in 1834) came forth to
marvel at the sight. Portland is another Geelong in its
pretty coast line, but the Bay has no drawback like the
sand-bar in Corio Bay. Doubtless it is “ capable of afford-
ing anchorage to the largest fleet in the world.”
Its peaceful residents and annual visitors have for-
gotten the history of Portland, if they ever knew it.
txoing ashore, I asked a man where I should obtain ad-
mission to the ruined gaol, a still surviving evidence of
tne fact that this was once a convict station. Pie didn’t
know. He had been in the habit of spending his
summer holiday at Portland for many years, he said,
but had never wandered amidst the decaying build-
ings and courtyards. Quite an important institution
this must have been at one time, for in the remaining
portion I found 13 little cells and some larger
apartments. Close to the gaol ground are the Public
Gaidens. At the entrance to the Gardens, within the
gates, is an old French cannon, captured by the British
ac th® Battle of Waterloo apparently. The letters
. “ E.R.F.”, with the interpolated “R” par-
tially obliterated, are east on the top of the piece of
antique ordnance, and “ Carron, 1811,” is the legend on
the side of it. “E.R.” may have signified Empire Francais,”
but the meaning of the defaced “ ” was not plain to me,
seeing that there was no Republique in France between
{’•«il rae w heu Nap retired to Elba and returned to meet
his Waterloo. Had the “R” stood for “ Royaume ”in
substitution for “ Empire ” during the short time of Napo-
leon’s exile at Elba, when Louis was King ? A caretaker of
the Gardens looked old enough to know the history of the
relic, so I tested him. He was profoundly uninformed
and intensely uninterested. He didn’t know the thing
was r rench or where it came from, or how long it had
stood in the Gardens, or whether its intimidating muzzle
had been turned towards the gaol in the long ago. I
noted in my pocketbook that Portland was a charming
old seaside town, full of splendid possibilities. But it
aoesn I know it is alive. One of the cares of the incoming
Vic. Government should be to acquaint Portland with its
interesting past, valuable present, and inevitably bright
future. The picturesque Victorian coastal town with the
noble harbor must be compelled to discover itself.
The attention of the Minister for Home Affairs
Hon. H. Mahon, inis been drawn to a leader in
the Sydney Telegraph (28/12/’08) on Australian
statistics. Mr. Mahon points out that it was in
response to the express declaration of the State
Premiers that they desired to retain their statis-
tical departments, that the Commonwealth has
hesitated to impose upon the people of Australia
the serious cost of duplicating the collection of
statistics. Every possible arrangement with the
States for facilitating the supply of information
had been made by the Commonwealth Statistical
Bureau, and had all the States kept to their agree-
ment to punctually supply statistics, there would
have been no trouble. It was never anticipated that
some of the States, including that one (N.S.W.)
in which the leader referred to appeared,
would be so late in forwarding requisite
information, and it would not have been
generous on the part of the Common-
wealth to assume that good faith in the matter
was not to be maintained. Mr. Mahon points
out that it is a mistake to suppose that he offer 8
excuses for the date of the appearance of the
x ear Book. The comments in the article over-
look the fact that there are a large number of
publications issued from the Commonwealth
Bureau giving all urgent information up to date,
and the recognition by nearly all countries of the
world of the quality, quantity and up-to-dateness of
the material issued by the Commonwealth Bureau
is a sufficient answer to the Telegraph’s sugges-
tions. It is not true to say statistics are still
unavailable, except in so far as the States have
failed to supply them, and this matter has been
urged by the Australian Government on the
attention of the State Premiers concerned.
*'L.E., I'* 1 '* from Melbourne :
The accession of the Federal Labor party to power
causes no thrill. Nobody expects anything in particular to
happen, so there is no excitement over the new regime.
It is difficult to find out why the Laborites ousted the
DKAKiN-ites, since they propose to bring forward no
measures to which the DEAKiN-ites cannot give their sup-
port. Labor stands for big ideas—White Australia,
Defence, transcontinental railways, etc. So do the
DEAKiN-ites. It is weaker than the DEAKiN-ites on High
Protection and immigration ; but its views on industrial
legislation are more advanced. Its programme, on the
whole, is the best Australia has before it. Yet
nobody is hopeful, not even Labor. It is a
curious position. On the one hand we have
a Labor Government with an admirable programme
demanding immediate publication ; on the other hand, a
conviction that amounts to certainty that there is not
going to be any publication. It may be urged that as
parties are at present constituted, it would be hopeless
for Labor to attempt any serious legislation. That is
piffle. Labor is put into the House because it believes in
a certain policy. Unless it means to follow the advice of
Oscar Wilde, who said that the best way to spoil one’s
theories was to put them into practice, Labor must either
act rashly or turn Tory. Labor has many advantages
over the other parties. It has the most national
ideals, the broadest outlook, and the sympathy,
which could be turned into vigorous support, of
the great masses of the people who have faith in
the future and Australia’s destinj'. Labor fails mainly
from want of ability. Because his vote is guaranteed
and he moves like an automaton, any dummy is reckoned
good enough for a Labor man. Labor prefers votes to
men. It likes “ safe ” men. A sense of humor, however
elementary, is dangerous to the prospects of any caucus
candidate ; enthusiasm is visionary ; a philosophic faculty
quite fatal. Labor dotes on dulness. The typical Labor
man would take the “ devil ” out of any cause. The party
is too narrow-minded, too deplorably “ practical,” too
rashly “ safe." This country is in a hurry. The imagina-
tion of Australia will never be kindled by a crowd that is
so dreadfully “ moderate ” as the present Labor gathering.
“ F.”—his letter :
The return to Sydney, last week, of Mr. A. R. Weigall
recalls a happening which it is useful for Australians to
remember. Four years ago Mr. Weigall left the service
of the Mount Morgan co., and went to China. There he
became associated with Collbran, Botwick and Co., who,
before the Russo-Jap scrap, had secured from the Korean
authorities certain mining rights, which were worked as the
Casper Copper Mines. Shortly after the peace proclama-
tion, Weigall ahd his wife journeyed on business to the
mines, and coming back ran into a party of our courteous
and gallant brown ally. The Monkey soldiers demanded
passports, but, despite the fact that the papers were pro-
duced, and were in perfect legal form, the Japs
denounced the travellers as Russian spies. Also,
they made personally insulting remarks to Mrs.
Weigall. When they had got tired of “slinging-
off ” they allowed their victims to proceed on the road to
Seoul, but the Australians hadn’t got far when our gallant
brown allies remembered a few additional insults which
they had forgotten to use in the first interview, and came
after them. The travellers were again informed that they
were spies ; also that they were liars, and several other
obnoxious things. One Monkey soldier proceeded to paw
the white woman. Her husband went to her help, and
found himself looking into the muzzle of the Monkey hero’s
gun. A proposal to have an execution there and then
was lost by a small majority. Then the Australians were
marched to Seoul, and publicly paraded around in the
snow for an hour or so. A Court later on exonerated
them from the charge of espionage, and the Jap authori-
ties airily tendered a perfunctory apology. But Weigall
refused to be readily side-tracked, and he talked loud and
long enough to be heard by the diplomatists, and the
diplomatists at length wrangled the thing out to a more
or less unsatisfactory finish.
From a correspondent at Kobe on the spy craze
in Japan:—
There are no people in the world more adept as spies
than the Japanese, and naturally there is no nation more
fanatically averse to the assumption of this role by
others.
It is well known that Japan attributes much of its
success in the late war to its system of espionage, affect-
ing the entire region of operations. During the campaign
people of all classes undertook the arduous and risky
adventure of spying. Even women entered the ranks,
and proved efficient assistants in the laying out of the
campaign. One of these, a woman of good family, proved
herself so skilful that she won for herself a reputatio n
entitling her to special honor accorded by the Emperor
and she is now the wife of a prominent Japanese banker’
in New York.
Though peace now reigns, the Japanese spy system
has not been allowed to fall into disuse. It is said that
in all countries where Japan’s interests may prospectively
lie, these representatives of the nation are steadily at
work. It is certainly true that they are constantly
engaged in North China and Mongolia. In the latter
territory they have proved so intrusive that the Chinese
authorities have protested to the Japanese legation in
Pekin, not only against their presence but against their
habit of taking maps and making plans. It is generally
believed that a similar system prevails in the Philippines,
Maoriland, Australia, and Western America and Canada.
The possibility of a Japanese subject becoming a be-
trayer of his own Government to a foreign power used to
be unheard of among the patriots of Nippon ; but within
the last few years several have been accused of the
offence. One of the officers connected with these recent
conspiracies to get rich by treason was, a little while ago,
assassinated by a Japanese patriot in Pekin. This alarm-
ing appearance of treason in the army and navy has caused
much anxiety in official circles.
Japan’s intense detestation of all foreign spies was re-
cently illustrated by a curious disability that befel an
Austrian subject on a walking tour from Tokyo to Kyoto.
This gentleman, well known to the foreign community of
Japan as a harmless and respectable resident, was fol-
lowed by a spy wherever he went. Upon reaching his
destination the Austrian made a vigorous protest to the
Imperial Home Minister; but he got no other satisfaction
than a polite note requesting him to excuse the trouble
that had been taken over him. It is explained that the
Japanese authorities were convinced that any foreigner
who would undertake to walk from Tokyo to Kyoto could
not he other than an agent of a foreign Government.
This episode has revived the suggestion among the
Japanese that the Government ought to revert to the old
regulation of obliging all foreigners going into the country
parts to take passports with them ; and it is said that the
authorities are rather inclined to favor this view. Yet
absolute freedom of travel through any part of the empire
was one of th 6 main conditions upon which the abroga-
tion of the system of extra-territoriality was conceded to
Japan by the nations of the West.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Duchess of Dantzic."
Theatre Royal. “ The Sign of the Cross.”
Criterion .. “ The Gayest of the Gay.”
Palace -f “ R °binson Crusoe” (matinee),
( “ East Lynne.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill."
Princess’s “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella."
King’s “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
And, of course, Napoleon was overcome
with gratitude for the washerlady’s ancient for-
bearance, and everybody got married or kept on
being married, and lived happily ever afterwards.
Except, that is, poor Josephine. Really,
Napoleon’s idea was to try it on the dog, so to
speak. His idea was to see how the people would
take a divorce—his own divorce from Josephine
—so, by way of experiment, he proposed to cut
one of his marshals adrift from his wife. But, as
things turned out, in this matter Nap. had’ to
manage without his marshal’s help.
* « - .
The opera, produced at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) on Saturday night, follows the well-
known dramatic story with almost cinemato-
graphic faithfulness. In fact, the programme
only claims for the opera that it is an adaptation
of the play. It is actually the play with a number
of lyrics—many of them very tuneful lyrics, by
Ivan Caryll let in : a sort of Sardou garment
with comic opera insertion. The letting-in process
isn’t always as artistic as the lyrics themselves ;
once, for instance, apropos of nothing whatever,
somebody remarks that life is short and time is
passing, so Sans-Gene had better sing them some-
thing. Florence Young is Sans-Gene, so of
course she obliges. That tremendous worker has
been obliging too often lately, however, and by
11.30 on Saturday night both she and her voice
would have been all the better for a rest. Con-
sidering the work she has done during the past
two years, no Australian artist ever more
thoroughly deserved a rest. And the r6le
of the explosive Madame Sans-Gene, Duchess
of Dantzic, is hard on the voice. At
one minute she has to be the uproarious
washer-lady; at another she has to sing the
tender “ Mirror Song,” with its beautiful, haunt-
ing accompaniment. Partly for this reason it is
practically impossible to made the character seem
quite real; yet Florence Young’s performance
can be set down as a dramatic success. And so is
that of Reginald Roberts. As the only repre-
sentative of the old nobility on view; he dies very
early in the proceedings; but he remains long
enough to be remembered, not only for the one
song he sings, but for the picture he presents.
James Hughes introduces himself well in a
drinking song which might have been built ex-
pressly for his fine deep voice, and thereafter as
Sans-G4ne’s devoted husband he is quiet and
effective. Little Miss Betty Ohls, recently
The Widow, and now looking tinier than
ever, has just the part that .suits her
—she is the Imperial ward—anil D. B.
O’Connor (vice Higginson, resting with a sprained
foot) is a satisfactory Adhemar, the young gentle-
man who close-up loses both his sweetheart and
his head. Gouriet frolics over-much and not too
successfully as the pedlar turned court milliner,
but retrieves himself to some extent with one
patter song. Wybert Stamford is a full-faced
Napoleon, into whose part not even the comic-
opera makers venture to let any insertion of song ;
and the artists who built the gorgeous frocks, and
Gordon and Little who are responsible for some
striking accessories, add to the success of the
show, which has the merit of presenting a highly
dramatic story garnished with music of at the
least a tuneful quality.
** * *
Sydney Theatre Royal continues to over-
flow nightly with chronic Sign-of-the-Crossites.
They observe the “attempt” on Mercia, the
murder of the psalm-singing choristers, the heaving
of the Christians to the lions, with the distended'
eye of edification ; also they hearken joyously to
the yells of Stephanus the racked, and find the
same uplifting. When the ultimate wild beast
roar has died away they wander regretfully into
the night, and in eight cases out of 10 proceed to
remark on “ the debasing effect of the recent
inhuman orgie at liushcutters ]3ay. ,:> It requires
but a paltry supply of dynamite for him whose
tastes run in the direction of blasting for morals to
blow an instructive lesson out of the above.
MISS MARIE NARELLE, SINGER.
Photo.—New Falk Studios, Sydney.
In spite of the heat-wave, and that famous
southerly buster that Was all dust and the cindeis
of the burnt Federal capital site at Yassberrn,
and the whiffs of the burnt oxen where the sun
has been registering 112° in the shade of the un-
built Federal Parliament House, •'The Woman
Pays” every evening at Sydney Palace, and
“Robinson Crustie ’’is at home on his island at
the matinee every afternoon. The ; stage dust
raised by the young pantomimists has hardly
settled before the sallow and obvious villain stalks
on, and, without being invited to do his worst,
does it. As “worsts” go, the worst of Roger
Marchant is a poor thing, and he is deservedly
foiled at every bad turn. He is a villain void of
art, and it is only the forbearance of the dramatist
that preserves him until the fourth act arrives, at
10.40, in a profuse perspiration. The honest tars
have abated none of their roaring ; the squire
remains a horrible example of the hopeless
stupidity of the British landowner; and the
village postman still falls dead in a heap when
Marchant waves his riding-crop at the back of his
neck. The double bill will continue until further
notice.
* # *• *•
Miss Eugenie Duggan is still showing to
packed houses at Sydney Criterion as “ The
Gayest of the Gay.” And, indeed, barring the
facts that her husband deserts her, her mother
dies, her sister is brutally murdered, and she her-
self loses that asset which is known amongst
melodramatists as “ her good name,” so that she
is driven to live in a Piccadilly flat where they
sluice down the trente et quarante table, matutin-
ally, in champagne, and hose the watchdog every
48 hours with the same costly and immoral fluid,
Eugenie’s existence is not wholly depressing!
Joyousness is in any case a mere matter of
temperament. Even in Yassberra there are said
to be a few gay souls.
** * *
For her concert at Sydney Town Hall, on
January 9, Marie Narelle has discovered anew
“Good Night, Beloved.” Other numbers will
include “The West’s Awake,” the lyric written
by Thomas Davis, the Irish patriot. Christian
Hellermann, the organist, will make his reappear-
ance in Australia; and Malcolm McEachern, the
Scottish basso, and others will do something
interesting for the public’s money.
*# m *
Sydney Tivoli has lost Mr. Johnson and
gained Mr. Burns; but the programme is other-
wise unchanged. It is distressing, to watch any
form of violent exercise these nights when the
innards of the thermometer are butting against
the roof of that implement in a mad effort to get
out; all the same, enthusiastic people are tramp-
ling on each other at the box-office window in
order that they may get very heated through
watching Mr. Burns take exercise he doesn’t re-
quire. After Mr. Burns and Messrs. O’Donnell
and O’Keefe—whose duty it is to be violently
, attacked by Mr. Burns at least twice a day—
“THE DUCHESS OF DANTZIC.”
Madame Sans-Gene—’twas in ’92,
When Paris drank deep of myrrh and rue;
When the streets were flecked with a ghastly red,
And the “ old nobility ” lost its head;
When Madame la Guillotine worked all day
Chopping the rankest growth away;
When the crown of Clovis, rolled in the mud,
Was swept away in a sea of blood—
Still at her wash-tub Madame Sans-Gene
Scrubbed from the linen the smudge and stain.
Madame Sans-Gene—no Royalist she;
Her speech and her manners were easy and free.
“ Vive la liepublique I ” None of the rout
Raised the cry with a lustier shout.
Yet as one ran like a hunted rat,
A pale and death-doomed aristocrat,
She took to her bosom his orphaned son—
She, and Lefebvre, by law made one:
Sergeant he in the National Guard
Who had wooed Sans-G6ne in the laundry yard.
To Madame Sans-Gene another came
As she toiled at her tub, Napoleon by name ;
A Corsican sous-lieutenant he
Dreaming great dreams of Things to Be ;
Hungry and haggard, moody and glum,
Living on visions of Things to Come ;
Dreaming his dreams of Things to Do,
And facing the world without a sou :
Haggard and hungry—and Madame Sans-Gene
Thrust Bonaparte’s bill in her desk again.
[Please go and see if it’s any cooler outside, and
return in 15 years.]
Now Paris is “Gay Paree” once more,
Napoleon’s the crown that Clovis wore ;
Lefebvre, who wooed in the laundry yard,
Mareehal now, and battle-scarred ;
Foremost he in the field or the Court.
And Madame Lefebvre ? Alas ! the sport
Of the upstart throng of the new regime.
“ Impossible ! ” says creme de la creme.
Unspoiled, unsullied —three cheers for Sans-Gene;
Happier she’d be with her shirts again.
And Adheinar, the aristocrat,
Saved from the nest of the hunted rat,
Back in the days of ’92,
When the blood ran fast if the blood ran blue,
Stands beside the Dreamer’s throne—
Sans-Geine’s champion he alone—
Yielding the upstart king his sword,
Yielding his heart to the upstart’s ward.
Happy mother ! And happier twain !
Yet a cloud sweeps low on the face of Sans-Gene.
“ Lefebvre, this is my royal plan ;
Your wife is no wife for a gentleman !
The Dukedom of Dantzic is thy reward,
For the valorous deeds of a trusty sword.
But thy wife a Duchess ! I tell thee nav.
Dantzic, divorce her ; she stands in thv way. . . .
L Napoleon, have spoken—l will be obeyed.
Thou shalt take for thy wife my ward, a fair
maid.”
Then Adhemar, mad with the double sting,
Splintered his sword at the feet of the King,
It was death ! Death to a lover, a son—
Napoleon had spoken, his edict had run.
Yet the Duchess of Dantzic might stav its course
By bending her neck to the yoke of divorce.
With tears the sweet maiden implored her in
vain ;
Yet fear not, she said, “he shall treat with
Sans-GSne ! ”
So she fought with the huzzies that thronged to
the throne,
And with wheedlings she captured five minutes—
alone.
Then back to the laundry she carried him, till
“/ am Madame Sans-G£ne ” —and presented her
bill!


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Amalia and Leonora, equilibrists, and Christo-
folo, equilibrist and juggler, are the first to catch
the eye. Mackinnon’s Scottish Meisters dispense
Scotch humor with some success; and J. W.
Riekaby. Goodfellow and Gregson, Charles
Faning, Tom Dawson, the Sisters Reno, and some
others, attend to the out-of-date business known
as singing and dancing.
** * *
“Bluebell in Fairyland,” at Adelaide
Royal, is a pantomime for the children. That is,
its humor is of biscuits and tooth-pulling and
torn knickers; it has no room for fun about
booze, or the lodger and the twins. On the other
hand, it is overweighted with certain Cockney
quips for the elders which ought to have been
shed long ago; audiences receive allusions to
’Acjcney or the Pink ’Un with chilling silence.
There is even a Chamberlain allusion (“What I
have said I have said”) which never had any
point except for a fortnight or so about five
years ago; yet the gifted juvenile who utters
it raises a sudden eyeglass and challenges
a puzzled audience for the applause that
does not come. There is a further deli-
cate point to be noted about extravaganza as
designed for the young—economy in dress-
material is directed entirely to one end of the
female frame. The costumes may have no skirt
worth mentioning, but they are all religiously
high-necked. Wirth’s Circus has been picnicking
by the City Bridge, and astonished early-morning
travellers have seen a herd of elephants swimming
in the Torrens lake, and a thousand-pound giraffe
putting its head over the Oval fence to eat the
shrubs. Wirth had a strong athletic co., and has
moved on all too soon. At the other Oval —the
Jubilee —balloons have been rising again, financed
by a merchant firm. You pay an empty tea-
packet to go in, and the period of inflation is
beguiled by a Flour Flutter and a Coffee Handi-
cap, and other weird athletic events.
* * *
One of the greatest novelties in the “ Jack
and Jill” panto, at Her.Majesty’s'(Melb ; ) has been
barely noticed by many people. The eight or ten
girls in Heeland costume who come along, with
Stella Selbourne at'their head, and help her to
sing Harry Lauder’s ballad of a “ bonnie, bonnie
lassie,” are clothed in undress uniform as regards
their bonnie, bonnie legs. An anointment of
Hazeline snow, or Blanco or what not, lends a
superhuman complexion to those glorious under-
standings, and tends to disguise the interesting
truth but'the fact remains that the members of
Her Majesty’s Caledonian brigade carry no flesh-
ing over anti above ,the cuticle wherewith botinti-
fu'l ISTature provided them. This new invasion of,
the rights of man (who has ever been a bare-kneed
person when he pranced around in breeks and
philibeg) probably ex-
plains why Miss Sel-
bourne and co. are
most rapturously
applauded by bald-
headed gentlemen
in the front rows
of the stalls. The
homage due to a
neatly-turned
ankle on a windy
day is as nothing
compared with
the worship of a
divinely-dimpled
knee that wears
only the white
flour of a blame-
less life, so to
speak. There-
fore the hair-
less adorers sit
at the feet of the
ldlted Venuses,
and are .very,
very happy. But
MISS STELLA GASTELLE.
the hero in “Jack and Jill,”
at Her Majesty's (Melbourne).
one can be happy in any part of Her’
Majesty’s these panto, times. “.Tack and Jill”
is a remarkably bright shbw from all points of
view. It pleases the chjld who is father to the
man, and the woman who is mother to the kiddie.
It.frizzles and it dazzles, and is a going concern
all the time. For some days Bert Gilbert was out
of the bill through severe indisposition, he having
been nearly tickled to death by his own jokes.
BUt on Saturday he was sufficiently recovered to
resume practice, so the original Baron Bounce is
now paying his strange addresses to Jack’s
mother, as before.
* * *
At Melbourne Royal the success of
“Cinderella” is also of a brilliant and decided
character. The two pantos., it seems, are ,so
dissimilar that they don’t clash in the Burns-
.Tohnson sense of the term. Their differences are
being settled by the public. In fact, the public
has formed itself into a Royal Commission of
THE OTHER CROM-
WELL as the Baron , at
Melbourne Royal.
Inquiry, and the
question as to
whether two pan-
tos. are better than
one is gradually
over-shadowing the
question as to which
panto, is better than
the other. “Cin-
derella ” improves
on acquaintance in
all respects, save
the malapropisms of
Edwin Brett, which
are only occasion-
ally funny. Miss
Meredro’s light so-
prano warble is de-
cidedly stronger
than it was, the
chorus singing is
more effective, and
the ballet does
nothing in particu-
lar with less appar-
ent effort than of
yore. Little touches of art have been added to
the dainty scenes between Cinderella and her
Prince, which are just the prettiest sentimental
scenes in any panto, legend. And the ballad sung
by Miss Ruth Lincoln in the forest is worth more
than one hearing. Miss R. L. was on the sick
list some nights last week, her sister taking her
place.
* * -*- *
Melbourne Town Hall was crowded on
Saturday night by 2000 people and more, the
majority of whom looked as though they were
there for the first time in their lives. The multi-
tude that got into the building, and the other
multitude that was turned away from the doors,
didn’t amount to a splendid advt. for the noble
art of assault and battery. But it behaved itself
in an irreproachable manner. The only time that
its feelings got the better of it was when a.police
inspector burst upon the screen and stopped the
entertainment. This unwarranted interference
on the policeman’s part was received with hoots of
disapproval, whereupon the present writer escaped
hastily without waiting to see whether the
audience would cry Havoc and let loose
the dawgs of war. The biograph of the
Burns-Johnson fight—this paragraph forgot
to mention its subject at the outset sug-
gests no reason for anybody’s excitement. It
reveals, in cold blood, a contest between a stodgy,
white-skinned gentleman, who didn’t want to get
hurt, and a tall, elegantly-proportioned black
gentleman who treated him as a joke. The lat-
ter kept his head up all the time, whereas the
former lost no opportunity to butt his skull
against Johnson’s breast and fondle him about the
body. The film, which cannot lie, tells one that
Burns appeared to be fighting for safety, and
Johnson appeared to be fighting for fun. It is a
very good film on the whole, and its tour of Aus-
tralia will doubtless be triumphal. With a little
discreet encouragement from the management,
half of the women population of Melbourne would
want to see this fight, provided that certain
occasions were set apart for ladies only.
#
At Melbourne King’s the disjointed black-
and-white drama of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin” have
struggled to adapt itself to the Festive Season.
The dolors of the narrative are relieved by a step-
dance or two, and the arrival of Death’s dark
angel is the signal for de nigger chorus to intro-
duce another musical selection. Also there are
two apotheoses, incidental to the deceases of
Little Eva and Uncle Tom respectively. It is
here, however, that the management seems to have
missed an opportunity. Angels are bright inci-
dents, but they never get beyond the tableau
sphere of usefulness. Eva and Thomas should
be borne away to fairyland by a ballet,
and then the scene-painter could spread him-
self with exhilarating results. The scenic
artist spreads himself considerably as it, is ; but
take it altogether, “Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” is.not a
gladdening spectacle. On the contrary, it is in
the words of the advt.—“a moral, religious and
altogether wholesome play.”
*» * *
“Charley’s Aunt,” at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, is now in the last week but one of her
farewell season. And there are people so lost to
all sense of duty that they have not yet seen the
bogus old lady from Brazil, where the nuts come
from. Also, there are others who have allowed
their recollections of Frank Thornton in his
various characters to grow dim for want of re-
newal. To those, and to the Melbourne folk m
general. Thornton is now. offering an auto-
graphed souvenir portrait of himself, “ sur-
rounded by all of his impersonations on the Aus-
tralian stage for 24 years.” Every visitor to the
theatre these last nights receives a photo.
W. Cosgrove’s subdued scream of wealthy
wickedness, “ The Unwritten Law,” continues to
keep Melbourne Bijou reeling with splendid vice.
Stanford White, the depraved sage, is the gentle-
man who gives the drammer its fast “ tone,” and,
no doubt, is a perfectly dashed devil of a fellow ;
but somehow he fails to suggest that his boasted
predilection for fresh muslin per diem is a real
danger to the community. Meantime, Evelyn
Nesbit, White’s fetching victim, is getting a
mortgage on public sympathy. In enduring the
boots of a krool world, she appears to have been
more shinned against than shinning—-in short, she
finally emerges from her troubles as a teroo
woman, sans purr et sans reproche.
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia West is still pre-
senting his flickered mixture of dream, mystery
and concert-conjuring called “Christinas: From
the Birth of Christ to the 20tli Century.” The
picture should be attractive to Christians in its
way, though the Nativity is poured upon the
onlooker with overmuch zeal and theatricality.
A further feature of West’s show on Saturday was
the first appearance of an extra-quality film de-
picting, with more or less historical accuracy, the
Assassination of the Duke of Guise, presumably
Henri of that ilk. It is served up with generous
detail, and adds another item of French history
to mostly everybody’s conversational repertoire of
Waterloo and Joan of Arc.
■» * * *
Tait’s Pictures, which made their pre-
liminarv flutter at Melbourne Glaciarium on New
Year’s Day, are, like those of everybody else,
part blamelessly serious and part serenely frivol-
ous. In the serious section of the show are
such pictures as “Naples,” “Italian Cavalry
Manoeuvres” and the “Relief of Luck-
now,” this last permitting the onlooker
to gorge himself upon fight, blood, riot,
niggers, etceteras, and Scotchmen. In the
frivolous portion, the spectator makes acquaint-
ance with an electric hotel, in which the rcr.hauffi
type of Englishman, with Dundreary whiskers
and dead dreary Norfolk suit, is, with his wife,
electrically brushed up and washed, etc., to their
extreme pleasure and absolute lack of diffidence.
There are other unmistakable frivolities in the
show, and there is also a department of soft
drinks.
** # *
Jack Johnson in the flesh is appearing at
the Melbourne Opera House for one week only.
He was due on Monday night, and during his
brief stay the prices of admission will be raised
sixpence all round, in honor of the extra expense.
Johnson happens at a time when the rest of the
programme is strong. Guest and Newlyn have
something to say for themselves before they be-
gin to dance; the “sketch” of Geoffreys and
Benson is a giddy little thing, with a moral end-
ing ; the Latonas—of whom the lady partner is
a clever little vocalist—give a good musical
“turn”; and the Macgregors, Carden Wilson,
Kalman, the Scotch Collies, the Marionettes, etc.,
are occurring every night.
The first week in 1909 saw the papers full
of reviews of the past 12 months in every avenue of
interest. But if Toryism counted up its political
losses and gains in 1908, it kept the result out of
the papers. For 1908 was disastrous to'Aged
Fat. In three States (Victoria, Westralia and
Queensland) were general elections held, and in
each one the Labor party gained in Parliamentary
representation. In Federal politics the Labor
party is in office, and the only Federal vacancy
tilled in the twelvemonth (the late C. C. Kingston’s
seat) went to a Labor man.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Tub Bulletin hears with regret, as it goes to press, of
the suicide of its old friend, George Lauri. George had
been in failing health for months. He fancied he was worse
than he was, and credited himself with a score of imaginary
diseases. For a long time past he and his devoted wife
(she was Marietta Nash) had been living at La Oomiche
at Bay View, and it was there that the tragedy
occurred. Lauri’s first appearance in Australia was
in 1892, when he showed at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s in “The Merry Monarch.” His favorite
part was Lurcher in “Dorothy” and as Lurcher he
elected to appear in the benefit performance that was
given for him in Sydney the other day. Other parts in
which he esteemed himself highly were Hassan in “The
Bose of Persia ” and Jack Point in “The Yeoman of the
Guard.” Lauri had a unique hold on the theatre-
going public of Sydney and Melbourne—a hold that
was attributable more to his gay and kindly
personality than to his art. That such a one should die
by suicide is weirdly inappropriate. The cheerful, broad-
faced mime is as incongruous as a felo-de-se subject as
G. H. Beid would be in a like rdle.
“ Philo” : John Widow-O’Brien Sheridan told me once
how he first came to act the female ; also how he came to
persevere in the practice. Sheridan was playing in a pro-
nounced “frost” in New York (U.S.A.), and the mana-
gers Jarrett and Palmer, were anxious to cut down
expenses. One scene depicted a police court in which a
woman was arraigned. Sheridan suggested that he should
double the part with the one he was then playing. This
was agreed to, and Sheridan appeared made up as an old
and heavily-primed Irish dame. He put a lot of ro-
bustious “business” into the part, and invented a
number of “gags” for propulsion'at the magistrate.
Soon the house began to put on weight. Jarrett re-
quest d George Fawcett Bowe, an American playwright,
to specially write a piece for Sheridan with an old Irish
woman as the central character. “Fun on the Bristol”
resulted. The ultra-realism of the cabin scene revolted
New York theatre-goers, and the management began to
hear the death rattle of Widow O’Brien. But Sheridan
dragged her from the tomb’s mouth. He got leave to re-
write the play, and eliminated a lot of its crudeness.
After that the Lone Woman began to career about the
world at a great pace, and everywhere she scooped in
large sums of money. Eventually she was seen in England
by Arthur Garner, who engaged her for a six months’
Australian tour, out of which she cleared £4OOO.
“Melb.”: Excellent as West’s Biograph has always
been it improves with the pictures of the assassination of
the Duke of Guise. This is a lifting of the biograph from
the banal historical attempts hitherto made, such as the
lives of Napoleon, Marie Antoinette, and Nelson, and
that appalling Life of Christ displayed by Ada Ward.
They were, merely a- lot of g*esticula.tory second-rate
French actors and actresses on a stage. The Guise pic-
tures belong to a scheme devised by Le Bargy, the emi-
nent actor of the Theatre Franqais. He takes a well-
known play, in this case “The Court of Henn
IH. ” bv Dumas the Elder. Then he gets a first-
rate writer, in this case Lavedan, to re-write
the plav in compass for the biograph. An actor
or actress recites the composition, which is just descrip-
tive. The performers who work with Le Bargy include
such eminent ones as Bernhardt, Bejane, and Coquelin.
In the assassination of Guise the characters are by Le
Bargv Lambert, Miss Bobinne, and nearly 20 of a super
cast 'all costumed with the utmost richness and appro-
priateness. Le Bargv acts Henry 111., a compound of
Louis XI. and Hall Caine. Lambert is a magnificent Guise.
“Melb”: A good biograph, this, of Marcus Clarke’s
“His Natural Life,” and well it follows the “Bobbery
Under Arms” show. For “ His Natural Life,” the bio-
graph entrepreneurs have gone to the veritable locale of
the principal scenes—Port Arthur. Clarke made his re-
searches there. Yet he was incited to write the novel
only for the bullion. He did not care to excel in that
line. He wanted to shine in the way of Balzac and
Thackeray, but was driven, as he considered, down to the
level of Sue’s “ Mysteries of Paris.” Massina and Co., of
the Australian Journal, a monthly publication, retained
him for the work, which was copiously, well, and some-
what quaintly illustrated with wood-cuts by Tom Car-
rington. I have been through the numbers in the Aus-
tralian Journal, and am not surprised at the outcries of
the subscribers over the earlier portion. This serial pub-
lication was about one-third longer than the book form,
and that is very long. Before forwarding the stuff to
Bentlev, for book publication, Clarke, who knew the de-
fects, submitted it to Charles 1 Gavan Duffy, who said,
“ Cut out as much as you can, and touch the whole up.”
The introductory part was at first ever so much longer
than it is now. 'There is also cut out a full and imagina-
tive description of the Eureka Stockade fijrht, with a much
elaborated study of Peter Lalor. For a time Massina and
Co. bitterly repented having urged Marcus to write
“ His Natural Life.” Their bourgeois readers found
the earlier chapters even as “ Sartor Besartus ” was to
Fraser’s Magazine. Clarke was a novelist of genius
simply walloping about. I think these quenched chap-
ters will come to light. The public may demand all of
Marcus. Clarke was terribly backward in furnishing the
copy. I fancy some months were missed. If so, in the
early part, the bulk of the readers would say “Thank
Heaven ! ” Clarke slopped along. It was as slow as a
bogged hearse till the yarn actually began. Then the
public warmed up, but Clarke never did. The farrago
ended with divided opinions. At last there was a
consensus of “ Let us have it all over again,” and out
came its portentous length for the second time. The
public then declared it was a ripping good story. After
Clarke’s death, and partly to satisfy readers who only
knew the book version, the story meandered through the
Australian Journal for the third time. Is not this a
world’s record ?
When Ada Crossley was last in Chicago she mentioned
to a press interviewer that Tarraville, her Gippsiand
(Vic.) birthplace, was given up to onion-growing. Then
the songstress was staggered on opening the paper next
morning to find above a full-length picture purporting to
be herself the fragrant headlines : “ Onions Make the Voice
Grow Strong ”; “Australia’s Diva Booms the Odorous
Bulb ” ; “Ada Crossley’s High Notes, Result of Early Onion
Training.” After that followed a column of alleged inter-
view with the singer, in which she was made to argue
seriously, and with every appearance of logic, that onions
had the same stimulating effect on the voice as on the
breath. “The children of Tarraville,” concluded the
interview, “possess voices so powerful that they are
renowned throughout Australia. In the middle of the
onion season, a healthy child’s coo-ee can be heard
distinctly through the bush three miles away.” And
that was where the daily paper person missed his chance.
If he had been a high-class liar he would have said that
the child’s coo-ee could be smelt three miles away.
“Busk”: New's comes from England of the death of
Lydia Thompson, aged 72. It is stated that she was
before the public in 1851. She was a sister of Clara
Thompson (Mrs. Bracy). Quickly Lydia established her-
self as the best English danseuse. She was the fore-
runner, or forebounder, of Sylvia Grey, Kate Vaughan,
Betty Lind and Alice Lethbridge. Lydia became famous
even on the continent of Europe. Dancing was emphati-
cally her forte, even when she became a noted burlesque
actress. Her dance would save any glittering farrago by
Byron, Burnand or the Broughs. The piece seemed tocircle
round it. She became a first-rate manageress. Nothing
ever caught on better in America than the Lydia Thompson
troupe of blondes. Always Lvd’s dance was the centre of
the Catherine wheel. She married Alexander Henderson,
with an Australian record. (His first wife was Marie
Nelson, one of the clever quartette of sisters. The others
were Eliza, Sara and Carrie, greatest favorite of all.
She married one M’Fadyen. Eliza married, in Aus-
tralia, 11. T. Craven, author of “Milky White,” “The
Chimney Corner,” and “Meg’s Diversion.”) Alexander
Henderson did better than any manager ever known on
Bendigo. Coming to Melbourne, he became lessee of the
wooden place which had been built by G. B. W. Lewis as
Astley’s, afterwards known as the Royal Amphitheatre.
Henderson named this the Princess Theatre. He further
showed brilliancy as a manager in England and America
with the help of Lydia’s cleverness. In fact, bright as he
was, Lydia supplied the best part of the brains of the
firm.
FOWL PLAY.
REPORTER: “Is it a fact, Mr. Burns, that you
hare given up all idea of keeping a poultry
farm? ”
BURNS: “Look a-hcre , I useter think I could
lick Johnson. But now I know I cant,
what’s the good of my attempting to keep
chooks? Why, very soon there wouldn’t be a
chicken left in the hull place.”
“Star”: As showing the appreciation of Australia
that exists in England, even among a knock-about class
like the pros., who move much over the surface of the
earth and frequently go down to the sea in ships, a
vivacious song and dance artiste who came to this country
not long since brought with her a barrel of sand for her
sand jigs, assuming that she would not be able to get
sand in such an out-of-the-way place. She also brought
a length of linoleum, never dreaming that the Australians
“ would have linoleum in their huts.” I ant told too of a
prominent English actress who, on being told that a
certain couple had been married in Australia, said :
“ What, according to the native rites?”
“Stonv”: At the temperance meeting and concert,
held in' the Mechanics’ Institute hall, at Karoorah,
Brother Slanks arose and started to give a recitation.
Brother Slanks was a long, nervous yout h. The recollec-
tion of the applause which had greeted the previous items
on the programme served but to damp his ardor and
make him regret the hour when he promised to speak a
piece. It was a mixed audience, moreover, and critical
withal, particularly in the rear of the hall. Brother
Slanks got along all right until he reached the words,
“He stood beside the bier!” Then his memory failed
him “He stood beside the bier !” he repeated, trem-
bling. The evil spiritson the back benches murmured one
to another. “He stood beside the bier!” groaned
Slanks, and drew a moist hand across his dripping fore-
head. “Go on !” yelled a voice from the rear, “Go on
it’ll get flat while v’ waitin’, bloke!” In the uproar
that followed. Brother Slanks fled from the platform,
tearing out his hair in bagfuls. His hair was after-
wards gathered up and exported to Europe, where it was
used to stuff mattresses with.
“Cuff”: Johnson and Burns are comparatively not
unlike Heenan and Sayers. Purves, K.C.,
flcht for the London Morning Chronicle, on wlnch Hi„
hotham had previously been a reporter. Not the same
sa?er as the P present Daily Chronicle. The Morning
Chronicle came to grief through accepting a subsidy
from Napoleon 111. After the great fight Sayers acted as
second for Heenan on one occasion. Burns is pot likely
tn do that for Johnson. Yet who knows? Sayers got a
Wgdrcuß,'and weirtdowntmlMy. Hi. l-rnOgJ.
greatest coster-gathering ever known. See Honings
head’s published sketches for detailed account of the
Sayers-Heenan fight.
(Continued on page 29.)
THE SHOWMAN AND THE THREEPENNY BIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PROFESSOR A. ROSENBAUM,
the most marvellous Penman (two-fingered) on
earth, will give an EXHIBITION OF PENMANSHIP,
and will write the Lord’s Prayer three or more times
on the space of a threepenny piece at the SYDNEY
SCHOOL OF ARTS, on the 28th DECEMBER, at
8 p.m. All cordially invited. W. A. CARTER, Ad-
vance Agent, Sydney School of Arts. —S. M. Herald,
S5/12/-08.
Holy Writ!
And the threepenny bit 1
Both the priest and the bishop are searching for it;
The curate looks up from the prayer he is reading,
The dean in the pulpit is pounding and pleading,
And promising blessings with every hit
For that fragment of silver, the threepenny hit.
Holy Writ!
And the threepenny bit!
The cathedrals and churches they’ve put up with it!
The prayers that they’ve mumbled—the prayers that
they’ve muttered,
While the old women coughed and the altar lights gut-
tered,
Fighting on with their piety, science, and wit,
For the small, insignificant threepenny bit.
Holy Writ!
And the threepenny bit!
When the Devil is caught and his weasand is slit,
When both his black hoofs have been cut off and mounted,
Theanthems been sung and collections been counted,
Let them place in a spot, by the w'ax candles lit
On the top of the altar, a threepenny bit.
Holy Writ!
With its threepenny bit!
’And the Lord’s Prayer most carefully written on it!
The coin of the Church, and the Gospel’s foundation,
The publican’s comfort, the sinner’s salvation,
’Twill be set on the thrones where the archangels sit,
That battered, all-powerful threepenny bit!
N.S.W.
KODAK.
A DRAMATIC BAFFLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eugenie Duggan at the Sydney Ori.
Still shows o’ nights as Kate :
A tear must plash from ev’ry feeling eye
That notes her dreary fate.
Mark how Dunbar (the evil fellow) tricks
Her spouse with lies and fizz,
Casts her alone on London town, nor sticks
At aught to make her his.
Betimes he chokes an inoffensive girl
(Her sister) and essays
Eugenie, too, to strangle. In a whirl
Of horror she arrays
Her persecuted frame in nurse’s clothes,
And seeks a life of peace
Under an alias. He whom she loathes
Dogs her and does not cease.
A stirring' play, I grant, i et am I blamed,
A3 r e blanked, if I can say
Why the heartrending effort has been named
“ The Gayest of the Gay.”
N.s.w.
10-2-4.


THE THERMOS FLASH.
1
A PRESENT DAY MARVEL.
Liquids placed in this flask keep their temperature for 24 hours—if put in hot,
they keep hot; if put in cold, they remain cold.
There are no chemicals to be bothered with, or worrying l directions to follow ;
everything 1 is simplicity itself. The outer covering of the Flask is either of leather
or nickel, but all that concerns the purchaser is the efficacy of the Patent
Thermos Bottle.
For Train Travelling, Driving, Cycling, Motoring, Boating, Picnicking, and for
all occasions where either hot or cold drinks are desired the Thermos Flask is
invaluable.
You can drink your Tea, or your Iced Drink, 24 hours after making, and
save the trouble of boiling a billy, or the risk of being served with inferior drinks.
We shall be pleased to supply any further information desired.
Flask to hold 1 pint, Leather covered 22/6
Nickel covered 25/-
FlasK to hold 1 quart, Leather covered 37/6
Nickel covered .. .. 40/>
These are sent Carriage paid throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES, Ltd
Sydney
sfd
AFTER YOUR HOLIDAYS
You will want Good Papers to Print your Negatives on.
WE CAN SUPPLY YOU WITH THE VERY BEST—
THE EMPIRE “ CORALYTE ” (Bromide)
and “ARTLYTE” (Gaslight) PAPERS.
Photographs on these “ EMPIRE ” PAPERS have just been
AWARDED TWO COLD MEDALS and ONE SPECIAL PRIZE at the
Great World’s Competition—The Franco-British Exhibition.
m f
The “ EMPIRE PHOTO PAPERS “ CORALYTE ” and
“ ARTLYTE ’’ are PREPARED in SYDNEY.
Their GREAT SUCCESS at the above Exhibition against the
World’s Manufactures is A Tribute to Australian Enterprise.
“ CORALYTE ” (Bromide) Paper is a Rapid Paper for Contact Printing and Enlarging. For Professional
Photographers it is a gold mine. It is made in “ Regular ” and Rapid Grades, and in Smooth, Glossy,
Matt, Rough, and Cream Crayon Surfaces, and in all the usual sizes now used.
“ ARTLYTE ” (Gaslight) Paper is the very thing for the Amateur. It is slower than “ Coralyte,” but easier
to work, and gives SUPERB RESULTS. It can actually be worked without a dark room, just using
an ordinary lamp, gas jet, or candle to expose and develop by ; red or yellow light not absolutely
necessary. “Artlyte” is made in all the popular Surfaces and Sizes, and now Leads the Market for
the Amateur’s work. “ Coralyte ” and “ Artlyte ” can also'be had in POSTCARDS of various surfaces.
pF" YOU WILL BE DELICHTED WITH “CORALYTE” and “ARTLYTE” PAPERS and POSTCARDS.
PRINCIPAL
DISTRIBUTORS-
HARRINGTONS LTD
The Most Extensive Importers of
CAMERAS and PHOTO MATERIALS in the
Southern Hemisphere,
Headquarters
Branches
■386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
179 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; 93 QUEEN BTREET, BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
In the chin-wagging and letter-writing
that followed the victory of Johnson over Burns
a few brotherhood-of-inan parsons in Sydney had
a great time. Carr Smith (who most times is a
sensible person) and Canon Boyce openly gloried
in the triumph of the black. Canon Boyce saw
“a ray of sunshine” in the hope that “the
triumph of the colored man over the white will
lead to a truer conception as to the power of the
non-European peoples.” Presumably this clerical
idea is that the proper way to judge man is by his
capacity to knock spots off somebody else. On the
same principle, no doubt, Canon Boyce takes off
his hat to the mule; for the mule is a mighty
plugger.
Trouble dogs the Melbourne Bay Ferries
Co. like a dog’s shadow. This small concern
attends to the ferry traffic between Williamstown
and Port Melbourne—or at least attended to it.
It possesses a fleet of four rather tired sea
monsters—-the Gem ; the frisky old Baldrock, once
of Balmain ; the Queen ; and an uncontrollable
oddity called the Motor Gem. A few weeks ago the
first three were laid up with chronic bronchitis or
tummyaehe or something, and the Motor Gem
was commissioned to transport citizens over the
stew between the Town and the Port. But the
citizens weren’t always transported ; in fact, when
the boat broke down their language was horrible.
So the company bought the Frederick Davis, a
practically new steamer, lately engaged on the
Richmond River (N.S.W.). Now comes the news
that on its way down the Frederick D. was totally
wrecked near Clarence Heads, and the Williams-
town-Port Melbourne ferry is in an even worse
state than before.
“ N.” : I wrote in
these pages that there
must infallibly be a dis-
closure of the sup-
pressed interview be-
tween I)r. Hale,, of
the Ckntury maga-
zine, and the German
Emperor aboard the
Imperial yacht Ho-
henzollern, off the Nor-
wegian coast. It is
alleged that £lO,OOO
was paid to the Cen-
tury for the suppres-
sion of the yarn. Yet
proofs had been sent
to London before the
agreement was arrived
at. The highest bid-
der for one set of these
proofs was Hearst’s
London agent. So
Hearst has the inter-
view in pickle. The
buying up of the proofs
may be something like
buying the Sibylline
books, which went on
doubling in price. The
mail just in brings the
text of the version
published by the New
York World. What
a piece of folly and in-
capacity it was for the
cablegrammer not to
send us an outline of
this ! Really, Austra-
lians are treaten like
a parcel of little boys
by the Syndicate Press.
Great sensation, we
were told, over the
World publication.
Not a word as to what
it was. Then, in a
day or two, “ Never
mind. It is repudi-
ated.” Very like the
Canon Is ash business.
However, the Would,
with one of the highest circulations on the globe,
thrilled England, Germany, and America with
the following (I furnish the gist):—“ The Kaiser
is angry with King Edward for treating him
badly during the past two years. Germany, like
Frederic the Great, fears not Europe in arms. It
is the strongest Power. The Kaiser holds France
in the hollow of his hand. Russia is out of the
game. The strength of England went with the
Boer War. England’s alliance with Japan is an
insult to the white races. Japan foments Indian
sedition.”
S. Australia only has a divorce case now
and then, and hasn’t even got a regular Divorce
Court Judge; in fact, the matter of a
divorce has ultimately lo go to the Full
Court. Yet the other day this casual sort
of court trod hard on the favorite remark
of some N.S.W. Divorce Judges that “the
petitioner must come into court with clean
hands.” In this particular case a squatter had
been rushed into marriage with a daughter of the
bush—it was a case of “ marrying the girl ’’—and
when she preferred to go into the kitchen and
pour her tea out into the saucer along with the
cookinsteadof stayingin the drawing-room, trouble
arose. It arose so high at last that when she went
away for a seaside holiday and the squatter pre-
sently asked her to come back home, she sent an
attractive young woman to look: after the house in-
stead. The usual thing happened ; and then the
bush girl with the kitchen or backyard habits
proved a brick. Instead of turning on her rival,
she did her share in getting her husband to fix up
the girl and the baby in a house, and proceeded as
if nothing had happened. But the old trouble
continued to slop out of the saucer, and finally
the bush girl with the incurable table manners
threw up her job and went to live in a hut with a
boundary-rider. The Court took a while to think
it over ; then the Chief Justice said he reckoned
that, in spite of the usual thing that had hap-
pened, they would be “guilty of an act of in-
humanity if they failed to grant the relief sought
under the circumstances” ; and so the ill-matched
couple got their decree.
Sydney Telegraph blossomed forth on
New Year’s Day with a picture of a bald devil,
with no pants, pointing out the Yassberra capital
to a bareheaded person without any coat or waist-
coat. The coatless person was standing on an un-
cultivable rock, and gazing across a dry plain at a
vision. Right out of the dry plain rose a building
with a stair at each side—presumably the new
Parliament House ; and behind this structure was
a small row of buildings and a great glare of fire.
Apparently Yassberra was burning, and there
was no water wherewith to put it out. The bald
devil without socks or pants wore spectacles and
a hook nose, and he grinned with satisfaction as
he pointed out the conflagration to the man with
no coat or waistcoat. This partially undressed
person had “ Australia ” on his waistbelt, and he
held his hat above his head with the air of one
who says: “Oh, Heavens! Has it come to
this?” Also he sloped forward considerably, as
if about to fall down in a dead faint. Evidently,
the sight of Yassberra had been too much for him.
THE STRUGGLE.
“ No! Clara; your father and I agree: that we
will have to be more careful — it's getting more
difficult every day to make both ends meet."
“ D.” begins the New Year :
I awoke on January 1, 1909, with a cloud of virtuous
resolutions hovering- aureole-like about the mosquito
curtains. As I dressed I mapped out a day that should
foreshadow and typify, as it were, the Whole of the ensuing
year. An eminently sane day it. was to be. A frugal
breakfast at a club (since my servant was away on a holi-
day), one mild cigar, no more no less; and then home
and toil till lunch-time. Lunch was to be a leisurely
meal, with something- of a holiday air about it. After-
wards more work. At 4.30 or 5 p.m. I would allow myself
a brisk health-giving- walk in God’s fresh air, and a swim
in God’s salt water, and return in time to change and
dine with some friends at 7 o’clock. As I strolled in the
direction of the morning meal, my devoted hound trailing
in my wake, I wondered if there were many who were in
for the sensible, uplifting sort of day that faced me. I
decided somewhat pitifully that there were not. Not all
of us are strong ; not all can square the jaw and do the
right and wise thing in the face of temptation.
I found a goodly company assembled at breakfast. It
was discussing the fight. The merits, intellects, etc., of
Johnson, Burns, E. P. Simpson, “Christian Endeavorer,’’
Bishop Stretch, “ Father of a Family ” and others were
canvassed. Harsh words were uttered concerning the
literary merits of the letters appearing in the morning
dailies. It was agreed pretty generally that the prose
style of the bulk of the epistles would shame a horse poet,
and called clamantly for police interference in the in-
terests of education.
After about three hours a waiter came and told me that
my dog was lost. The inconstant animal had grown
tired of waiting forme, or something, and had fled with
another dog into the unknown. A friend here said,
“ Well, you might as well walk round to my flat now, and
have a drink.” I replied (somewhat inconsequently, I
fear), “As the dog has gone, perhaps I might.” We
lunched at the flat at 1 p.m, “Dog or no dog,” I said
resolutely, “ I shall go home and work at 2 o’clock.” At
1.45 an old friend whom I had not met for j'ears came in.
My host left for the races. The new-comer un-
fastened a parcel he had with him, and displayed
a couple of little boards with pegs on them.
They afforded, it appeared, a new.and superlatively good
way of playing double-dummy Bridge. “I shall ring up
the club about my dog,” I said, firmly, “ and if he has
returned I shall get him and go straight home.” I found
that the dog had called twice during my absence, had
coursed swiftly about the hall in defiance of the rules,-
and had then retired once more to the unknown with
immense velocity. I said I would play one hand, no more,
out of-mere curiosity and to get the hang of the new
game. My opponent dealt and declared “no trumps.”
As I held seven clubs to the ace-king, and a fine hand
otherwise. I doubled. I scored nine tricks. It seemed to
me a good game. I admitted as much. “Well one rub,
at ss. a hundred,” I said. “Then off Igo to toil.” We
played a rub and I lost 17s. 6d. I decided to get it back
again. I lost 15s. The next rub I won, by superhuman
exertion, 3s. The next cost me half-a-sovereign.
Why detail the doings of that dreary afternoon ? Be-
tween 2 p.m. and 6.30 the sum of £7 10s. was torn from
my possession. Then my dinner engagement occurred to
me. I fell wildly into a cab and went home. I was half
an hour late for dinner. At about 11.30 my sleeping ears
were assailed by a long-drawn scream. Slowly I came to
dim consciousness. “ Was it an assassination ?” I asked
myself, affrightedly. No; the uproar was too pro-
longed. I dashed to a window that looks on the
street I inhabit. Sitting on his haunches in the
roadway, with his face to the heavens, was my dog.
He must have been demanding admission for some
time judging by the infuriated faces that showed at
various windows far and near. As I withdrew from view
to seize an overcoat, the animal’s lamentation grew ear-
splitting. Amid the execration of the neighbors I
grabbed him, beat him about the head, and hurled him
wit!.in. He seemed to want something. I grew sorry
for him, and walked into the dining-room to get him a
drink. As I emerged I fell over him on the mat. A
torrent of blasphemy rang through the silent house.
Simultaneously a clock struck twelve. January 2 had
begun. Of a verity, my brethren, not all of us are as
resolute of purpose as we might be.
* * • »
“ Clarence O’Hagan ” writes :
For monumental asininity and mental opaqueness, give
me some of the competitors in the Sydney Star’s
“ Naming the Capital ” foolishness. The prize idiots are
those whose aggressive “loyalty” impels them to shove
in suggestions “in honor of our beloved King ” —verbal
atrocities like “Edward City,” “Edwardandra,” “ Ed-
wardandria,” and other variants of. Ned. Other crawl-
some “suggestions” are “Alexandra,” “Alberton,”
“ Victoria,” and “Victorian.” A fearsome person has
propounded “King Edward VII. Federal City’’—which
would look nice on an envelope if the stationers make
one large enough to write it on. “Cook City” and
“Cook Banks” are noble specimens of originality,
while “ Cnokstoon ” and “ Cookstown ” stagger one with
their brilliance. One person (evidently a Londoner and
“loyal”) puts in “King’s Cross”—which is the name
of a very large and dingy station in the Big Smoke. A
pious bloke suggests “ Chilion,” as it is a Bible
name (it means “Wasting Away”), and a non-
pious bloke barracks for “Burns” —partly to com-
memorate the bard and partly “ a man engaged in a
great issue”—at least he teas encaged, but is now “rest-
ing.” (Nobody dared suggest “Johnson,” which is an
injustice, as that is just now the name here—e.</., the
magnificent Misrepresentative, the great Imported Rail-
way Person, the Colored Coon, and many others.) One
party yelps for Dudley, after our latest G.-G. and cricket
recruit, and another demands that Australia’s capital
should be called “ Carrington,” as “ a compliment to one
of our most noted Governors.” One “ suggestion ” of
astonishing magnitude is that the capital, of Australia
should be called “Australia,” just as the city) of
Mexico, in the State of Mexico, is the capital
of the republic of Mexico! The chief reason
adduced is that it “would not cause confusion'to
foreigners.” Blow the foreigners! I notice “Cornelia”
(it comes from a lady), and wonder at it, until
the Star generously informs me that it was the name of
“a justly-celebrated Roman . matron.” I ask —What
have the Roman matrons done, for us except (some of
them) to provide ini rior fruit and squash-sellers for Syd-
ney and Melbourne ? And I hasten to reject “Cornelia”
—also “Beehive,” and “Ceres,” and “Harmony,” and
“ Pomona,” and otho . allusions to produce and vegetables.
Australia isn’t going bo be built up:with, or by, or from
honey and apples. And I want to lay a new hat against
four long'beers to the suggester qf “ Newhaven” (who
sends in that horsey tppellation in the belief that “ after
hovering about for eight years the capital has at last
found a haven of rest ’•') that he is wrong ! By the time a
new Parliament and the High Court (not to mention a
Referendum) have done with the Canberra-Yass-
Lake-George site, the Australian capital will pro-
bably be on the Katherine River—that is, if it
isn’t back at Monaro ! There Could be a lot said
about a number of other suggestions, but I forbear. The
best are Barton, Corona, Kerami, Kingston, Marton, Orion,
Shakspeare, and Waratah ; but none of these quite fulfils
requirements—viz., brevity, euphony, and entire appro-
priateness. And, lastly, how is it that no genius has sent
in the name of that grand patriot, statesman, and all-
round advertiser, BENT? My vote goes for “Bent” as
the name for our present capital site, every time. It has
been fixed in such a crooked fashion.
ADVICE FREE.
DENTIST (to street singer): “For Heaven's sake,
man, step inside, and have it out!”
THE ASBESTOS CAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had a dream (as Byron says) which was not all a
dream—
I saw Bruce Smith and Joseph Cook beside the Cotter
stream.
It was the merry time of year when people tire of work—
The month when all the fiends migrate from Hell to Back
o’ Bourke !
It> was (as Cowper says) the hour when Caspar’s work was
done —
And through the rolling clouds of smoke there shone the
scarlet sun ;
The heat was indescribable—like Willie Kelly’s thirst—
And Bill Lyne’s.big thermometer had gone on strike and
hurst !
Beside the Cotter's stony bed where just a trickle ran
A Senator named Russell tried to fill a billy-can,
In gold >and scarlet near him stood majestic Jawbone
Neild,
With eagle eye surveying all that smoke-discolored field !
In wild, despairing attitudes stood menials arrayed
In blackened dungarees and “ ducks’’—the uniform of
Wade !
And that great man himself was there—he waved his
large-sized hands,
And made a speech (in spite of Neild), and issued loud
commands.
Said he: “Well, gentlemen, at last we’ve reached the
famous spot,
The site Australia burns for—’tisa pity ’tis so hot !
But, still, when you get used to it—it’s splendid fourth-
class land—
You’ll like the genial climate, and get nicely browned
and tanned.
“ Observe the setting sun—like some huge danger-signal
seen
Through fog ; and notice, too, that reddish-orange-purple
sheen !
That’s only found at Canberra—it’s really very rare ;
Dahjety never has it, for there are no bush-fires there l
“ Perhaps it is a trifle warm—but never think of that,
You’re bound to feel the heat a bit—especially if fat ;
But wihter-time will soon be here and probably bring rain,
And put the bush-fires out, and make the grass spring up
again.
“And Barren Jack will partly fill—that’s if it’s built to
plan—
And Cotter Creek will flow enough to fill poor Russell’s
can.
You’ll find, in fact, on rainy days the air will feel quite
damp,
And not a bit of haze or blaze will linger round your
Camp.
“ But, in the meantime, I have taken steps to keep you
safe—
You needn’t worry very much —although you fry and
chafe !
I’ve exercised my mighty brain, which all things can
discern —
Your Camp is of asbestos, so, of course, it cannot burn ! ’>
Oh, then Bruce Smith and Cook and Hughes into wild
cheering broke,
And Jawbone Neild formed fours and frowned defiance at
the smoke !
And over all the red sun glared like some gigantic lamp,
And I woke up and left them there in Wade’s Asbestos
Camp 1
K.S.W.
O.C.C.
\ ass, Sunday. The most destructive hushfire over ex-
perienced in this district swept from the Goodradigbee to
the Murrumbidgee to-day. Considerable difficult!’ was
experienced in saving stock, and it is estimated' that
large numbers have been burnt to death. Some excitim-
hghts occurred to save homesteads, and Cavan woolshed.a
newstructure,fitted with thelatest machinery. AtSaltbox
station, Mrs. Wade and daughter had a very narrow
escape from burning, the ladies being rescued with con-
ueijble difficulty. At present no accurate estimate of
the damage can be given, but it is supposed to be
enormous. All day the town has been enveloped in
thick clouds of smoke, and a pungent smell of burnim'
grass is observable.— Sydney D.T.


VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain),
PATENTS AND TRADE MARKS.
Griffith and Allen,
International Patent Attorneys,
163 King Street, Sydney; 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Corresponding Agents throughout the World.
Price, 1816 Post Free.
State size of hat and width of brim
required when ordering.
A Fashionable Panama.
Yes ! There’s a distinct fashion in Panama style,
and our illustration chows it.
A well squared crown, brim nicely curled, giving' a
smart effect—crown all in one piece to prevent
splitting, color perfect, and brim wide enough to
give plenty of shade when drooped to either side,
back or front. That’s a PEAPES’ PANAMA,
and we claim it to be the best value and the smartest
hat you can buy in the State.
Inspection invited of this very special line.
Write for a copy of our New Catalogue.
PEAPES S CO. LTD.,
“Men’s Outfitters,” .
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
“D.,” psychologically
I never fully grasped the big" part that <£ attitude
plays in prize-fighting till last Boxing Day. In every’
scrap one pug' must appear more confident, haughty and
contemptuous than the other. Hitherto Burns has won
easily over all comers in this line. But Johnson g'Ot him
beat on the 26th ult. In the presence of Johnson’s wide,
cheerful, tolerant smile Burns became sullen. That ob-
viously pleased Johnson. It was not friendliness that
impelled him to walk to Burns’ corner and shake the
white’s reluctant hand. It was ring tactics. The more
vicious Burns got and looked the more Johnson chortled.
Observe the type of citizen who argues with his peer in a
bar. He hasn’t much mentality, and what he has
is so beer-stained as-to be of scant value. Failing a
wealth of argument, he strives always to fall back on an
attitude of high intolerance. There is a struggle in the
early stages of all bar-debates for a position on an altitude
of high' disdain. Whoever gets there and contrives to
stay in thaji commanding position for a space, gets the
barmaid’s decision regardless of his capacity in other
directions. And so in the prize-ring. .Tohnson—amusedly
cool, patronising, good humored; —put the anxious Burns
in the position of a small, futile boy. It was an appalling
handicap to labor under —a method of attack that would
have taken the heart out of a lion. There is nothing a
lion hates more than to be viewed with cold contempt.
AS IT WAS IN THE BEGINNING.
HE : “ What will you he when you grow up?”
S HE: “ I’ll he a great actress and marry a lord.
What’ll you he?”
HE: “I think I’ll he a co-respondent.”
S.A. celebrated its 72nd birthday at
Glenelg on December 28th. There were pioneers
present by the hundred (every one who was in the
State before 1840 is a ‘ 'pioneer ”). Eleven of them
dated back to 1836, and six of these actually came
out in the Buffalo with Governor Hindmarsh
when the infant settlement was started.
THEN HE GAVE IT UP.
HE (explaining the match): “ Overarm , you see, kept the runs down with his magnificent length.
SHE ( ecstatically): “ Oh, the DEAH man! Is he so very tall?"
“ Henry Horsecollar ” : I don’t absolutely
yearn after violent boxing encounters, but, all
the same, I feel rather bad in my dinner recep-
tacle when I find the clerical fraternity making
such a fuss as it has been doing re the Burns-
Johnson scrap. Perhaps I have a bad set of
nerves and an inferior digestion, but, anyhow, I
rise to protest that I have met with certain hymns
that broke me up worse than the 8.-. T. encounter,
or twenty such encounters. During the course of
that disagreement there was less than a pint of
real gore shed, and a pint isn’t much. Now in
my garish childhood I was dragged to church
regularly, and there I heard the reverend gentle-
man give out things like this :
There is a fountain filled with BLOOD
And sinners plumred beneath that flood
Lose all their guilty stains.
And the congregation sang it. Nice girls in white
frocks sang it. Prettv young matrons sang it.
And they didn’t shudder once ; yet I did. In
my vivid imagination I saw the sinner plunging
into all that blood. If lie plunged fully dressed,
and came up with his clothes soaked in gore, and
gore on his face, and gore streaming off Ins plug
hat, and gore squashing 1 in his boots, and a gallon
of gore in his tail pockets, I felt that it was red
and horrible. If he plunged naked it might not
be so horrible, for it would be easier to wash the
red fluid off. but for him to come out nude and
streaming with blood in the presence of all these
girls and young women was indecent. And then
they sang—
Washed in the BLOOD, etc.
and a dozen or twenty other hymns about blood.
To anyone afflicted with imagination the church
seemed like a slaughter house, and often I wanted
to be violently ill out of the window, only the
window was never open, for the creeds are a stuffy
and ill-ventilated lot. and besides I wasn t tall
enough to reach the window if it had been open.
As I said already, there wasn’t a pint of real gore
shed at the Burns-Johnson encounter, yet the
church puts on airs of horror, and wants the busi-
ness stopped. Great Scot! There’s
in one average hymn-book than you will find in
the whole boxing industry in a year.
A certain Cohen struck N.S.'W. Premier
Wade’s new Act before it was a week old, with
dire results to Cohen. On Boxing Day Cohen
was at Rand wick on the three-card-trick game. A
miner from Gympie saw a bystander pick out the
red card and win £l. The man from Gympie
then bet £l, and lost. He also bet £o, and lost.
Cohen then very carelessly turned the edge of the
red card. The miner saw his error, and hurriedly
planked £5 on the marked card. It, too, was
black, and his whole £ll was gone. Another
“flat,” seeing a grease spot on the red card, bet
£1 on the fact, and found it also was black under-
neath. Cohen was then run in, and charged
under the new Act with playing a trick of sleight
of hand in a public place. His' lawyer urged on
the Bench that Cohen was engaged in a game of
skill. He pitted his skill against that of the mugs—
grease spots, marked corners, and all. Magistrate
Barnett decided that it was sleight of hand, and not
skill. He was of opinion that the red card
was never on Cohen’s brollv, and therefore that
the Gympie miner did not have a chance. In vain
did Cohen offer to show Barnett how to pick the
red himself. Barnett hastily refused, and sen-
tenced Cohen to six months’hard labor, and im-
pounded £l3 found on him. This broke Cohen up.
It isn’t often a man “ doing time ” has the
monotony of his life broken by marriage but a
State guest at Maryborough (Vic.) gaol had that
experience the other day. the bride being appar-
ently anxious to capture her man before he could
escape, so to speak. Years ago two eager damsels
plighted their troth to their lovers in Melbourne
Gaol, the groom in one case having to wait four
vears before he got a chance to kiss his wife again.
But, as a general thing, the Law doesn’t counten-
ance marriages in durance, or births either. It
seems to prefer deaths—early morning deaths,
with the patient trying to climb a dead tree by
his neck in his last moments.
In Sydney the New Year came in on tip-
toe, like a burglar, whilst the old one slid down
the banisters into the past like a freshly-oiled
spectre. There were no shrieks, howls, tin-
kettlings, siren blasts, or disturbances of any kind
to mark the advent of 1909. The heart of the
merrymaker was oppressed by Wade’s Police
Offences Act. The city was so well patrolled that
for once policemen we're thicker than thieves—as
well as being fatter and slower. It was a
thoroughly orderly—not to say depressing—occa-
sion, pervaded by shiny helmets and weighted
down with Paw in 14-stone junks. A woolly old
director who lives close to the writer, and who
went off in a jovial mood to town about 7 p.m. to
see the crowd, returned home at 10 swollen with
rage. He said there was no crowd at all, and
that the city was full of idle policemen who moved
him on every time he stopped to look about him,
or to talk to a friend. Before he slammed his
front door he made exactly the same observation
that a Judge once heard a villainous bottle-oh
make from the dock after being awarded six months
“ hard ” : “ Well, my opinion is there are too many
laws and too many policemen.” Thus one touch
of bobby makes the whole world kin.
* * * *
The appalling earthquake of last week may
not be the boss disturbance of history, but it is
probably not far short of it. _ It certainly
beat the awful record of Yeddo in 1703. when
190,000 lives were lost; it absolutely overshadows
the troubles at Valparaiso and San Francisco and
Jamaica, and the Mount Pelee difficulty, and
(probably) the old annoyance at Pompeii and
Herculaneum. Messina—the 2600-year old Sicilian
city, with its cathedral dating from the days of
Roger the Norman, and a history that was fairly
old when the Carthagenians marched in and took
possession—is gone. There is a heap of road
metal in its place, and out of 149,000 people, it is
estimated that 135,000 are dead. Reggio is so
utterly gone that it can’t be found, and out
of 44,000 people only about 40('0 had time
to light out for the agricultural regions be-
fore the great obliteration. The town of Scylla
is gone, and only two people survive, also the
famous rock of Scylla has fallen in and the whirl-
pool of Charybdis has shifted. As the cable-
grams wildly state, “the face of Nature has
changed.” The coast has wandered about like a
vagrant and taken all manner of new directions ;
some harbors have been lifted up and the bottom
has fallen out of others; and generally things
have broken loose. The total deaths are esti-
mated at 200,000, and how many millions the bill
for ruin done may amount to no one yet knows.
*•»■**
The N.S.W. Agricultural Department is
worrying about certain broom millet growers.
These primary producers have been playing a
game that would do honor to an invoice-fakir. In
packing for market the raw material of the im-
plement the office boy doesn’t tidy up with, many
of these dexterous growers have a knack of
putting first-class millet on the outside of the
bale, and very second-rate stuff inside. Others
pack before the article is properly sweated ; this
makes for greater weight. The method of other
weight-manufacturers is extremely subtle—also
simple. They* just stuff the bale with stones,
worn-out ploughshares, old boots, bolts, broken
axles, locomotive wheels, or any old thing
of respectable tonnage. It is alleged that
one bale contained a pile-driver’s “monkey.”
The other day the Melbourne broom manufac-
turers rose up and respectfully pointed out that
they wanted millet, not scrap-iron; and the
Maoriland makers have got so tired of theN.S.W.
conjurers that they are transferring their custom
to Italian and American growers. So far, Wade’s
Agricultural Department can think of no better
way of squelching the millet fakir than to respect-
fully “ draw his attention to the injury he is doing
to the trade ” ; but other more practical people
ask the Australian Government to bring the
fakir within the grip of the Commerce Act, so
that an inspector may keep an eye on him and all
his works.
m * * *
One of the saddest human beings in Syd-
ney to-day is a tall black man, who bears a
resemblance to Jack Johnson, champion. He is
out of a job. His occupation is gone. For weeks
past a contingent of betting men have been pro-
viding him with the wherewithal to lead the lurid
life, on the understanding that he went straight
away and led it. He has been seen in bars and
other places where no would-be champion
should be, and he has haunted these places
at all hours of the day and night. And always
the befuddled bar-loafer gazed with starting eyes
and said, “B’gosh ! it’s Jack Johnson breaking
his training rules.” Afterwards, as like as not,
the deluded bar-loafer stole hurriedly away, hypo-
thecated the family dust-bin, and piled the pro-
ceeds on T. Burns—and if he didu tdo the deed
with those who were exploiting the bogus
Johnson it wasn’t their fault. So as the large
nigger became drunker the odds available for
those who wanted to back Johnson became
longer, and if they failed to profit thereby then the
money they spent on the large murky one’s drink
was wasted.
* * * *
By “ Freebody ”
Perth (W.A.) stipendiary stewards have looked into the
case of jockey McDougall, who was killed the other day
through his mount coming to grief. The dead jock’s
accoutrements contained some unusual items, to wit, an
arrangement of wires connected with an electric battery.
The stewards pondered earnestly over the mysterious
machinery and at last decided that it was intended to
supply an electric current to the spurs of jockey
McDougall, and exhort jockey McDougall’s mount to get
a move on. Also the stewards decided that electric
spurs ought to be discouraged ; so they said that jockey '
McDougall’s mount’s trainer—whom they blamed for the
horror —was guilty of malpractice, and passed him out for
life.
TRYING TO KEEP EACH OTHER
STRAIGHT.
Swinburne reproving Inconsistency and Satan reprov-
ing Sin may well go in pairs.—AGE.
Adelaide’s main streets are rapidly getting
into some sort of order, and it is confidently hoped
that about the time this sees print a few electric
trams will be running for general use. It has
been a long business, and the most popular hit in
the pantomime is where a Rip Van Winkle king,
being told that he has slept for 300 years, asks
anxiously whether the electric cars are at work
yet. Meanwhile, the old horse-cars are running a
good deal on the new lines, and the changes of
route begin to be appreciated. The Tramway
Trust has opened up new ways at discretion ; to
begin with, all lines have been removed from the
(comparatively) narrow ,but much-shopped-in
Rundle-street and Hindley-street. In the suburbs,
whole avenues have been deprived of their tram,
in favor of shorter or broader routes, and impor-
tant corners have been left high and dry. It is a
horrid blow for Vested Interests. /
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon,, where
six first-class artists are engaged. fihe establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
BROTHER TADGER WRITES A LETTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
At Sunday-school the children talked of this fight
showing that the wicked seeds of it had been quickly
scattered into their pure and innocent little lives.
“ Christian Ehdeavorer ” in S. M. Herald (29/121 08).
Dear Grandmamma. —In haste and fright
And holy wrath, I now indite —
In other words, I heg to write
To you about the recent Fight !
Conceive my horror, if you can,
When some degraded, common man—
A Pagan with a face like Pan !
Sent me a card, my dearest Gran
A card admitting one to see
A horrid fight for £ s. d. !
I asked myself—“ Can such things be ?
How dare they send such things to me ?
I went quite hot and cold by turns ;
I thought, “ Suppose the pastor learns
Of this, and thinks that Tadger yearns
To see Jack Johnson wallop Burns?
What will he say ? In my despair
I took it to the Lord in prayer,
And as I knelt heside a chair,
I heard the answer : “ Yes ; go there ! ”
I went—it was a five-pound seat—
There was no dust, no smell, no heat;
And everything was clean and neat —
The shameful place was quite complete 1
And when the brutal fight began
I said, “ I am a sinful man ;
But, Lord, arrange it if You can
That Burns may lick the'African.”
I fear my prayer was badly said,
Because it was not answered ;
In round fourteen poor Burns was sped—
A hot and contrite tear I shed.
For oh, dear Granny, all the bad
Surged up in me ! I yelled like mad ;
If Burns got home I felt quite glad ;
I howled at Johnson, “ Booh, you cad ! ”
And when they stopped the fight at last,
And every hope for Burns had passed,
Myself into a cab I cast
And bade the driver drive back/ast !
And all that day and all that night
I talked of nothing but the fight—
That brutal and degrading sight
When Black proved far too good for White !
Next day at Sunday-school—oh, shame 1
When all the darling children came
They spoke about the horrid game.
And showed each other how to maim 1
Forgetful of the Sabbath law —
Devoid of reverence and awe —
They punched each other on the jaw 1
This fearful spectacle I saw.
They pranced and danced like frisky colts, ■
And practised “ breaks-away ” and “ holts,”
And “leads” and “swings” and “jabs” and
“ jolts,”
And various fistic thunderbolts !
They would not listen to the tale
Of Jonah and the Hungry Whale ;
I spoke about the priests of Baal —-
Alas ! without the least avail.
I found the Fight had sown the seeds
Of sin—the darlings took no heed
Of Scripture word and Hebrew deed,
However sadly I might plead !
And now I don’t know what to do,
So, Grandmamma, I write to you.
I state what’s obviousl.y true,
The outlook is exceeding blue !
Unless this fighting fever cools,
And oir old Kerristian spirit rules,
Oore wdl be shed in mighty pools
In all our sacred Suuday-schools !
N.S.W.
CLARENCE O'HAGAN.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENCINE and PLANT grSi
Koval Agricultural Societv’sArials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
‘•NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented /||*‘th(ir Leplastfier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDIGO : Pail Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining: Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK —Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “Camel” Brand and “Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
In spite of the fact that Maoriland has for
years past professed to be spending large sums of revenue
on public works, its own official figures show 7 that it now
owes more than it owns. With the assistance of the
Valuer-General the Government Statistician has made
“ an attempt to arrive at the value of the public property
in the Dominion” (p. 537, M.L. Official Year Book,
1907-8) ; and (using the 1905-6 values for land and im-
provements, which are probably much in excess of
present values), this is a summary of the result: —
State lands £18,918,000
Local authorities’lands .. .. 5,851,000
Educational lands 4,646,000
Church and other lands .. .. 3,392,000
Government railways .. .. .. 24,092,000
Other public works 5,142,000
Total assets £62,041,000
Now turn to the statement of the public debt (p. 573,
Official Year Book), and this appears as at March 31,
1908:
Debentures and stock in circulation .. £66,453,897
Less sinking fund 2,928,936
Net public debt £63,524,961
Therefore, notwithstanding all the humbug which has
been talked and written about works being constructed
out of revenue through the Public Works Fund, we get
this:—
Total public property (including lands) .. £62,041,000
Net public debt 63,524,961
Deficit £1,483,961
As shown above, the sinking funds amount to £2,928,936,
and it is very doubtful whether that amount ought to be
deducted from the public debt in making this compari-
son, because very 7 probably the assets represented by that
debt are included with the “ public property.” On that
basis, the position would be :
Total debt £66,453,897
Total property 7 (including Sinking Fund
investments) 62,041,000
Deficit £4,412,897
This public debt does not include the unpaid loans raised
by the local bodies, amounting, at the end of March, 1907,
to £11,616,048. On the other hand, presumably the
.assets belonging to local bodies are not reckoned in with
the public property, though there is some doubt even as
to that, seeing that among the assets are included “Local
authorities’lands, £5,851,000.” If the assets are included
and the debt isn’t, then the deficit is really some millions
more than is shown above. As to the railw 7 ay 7 s and other
reproductive public works, it cannot be claimed that
they have been undervalued ; for, in spite of the Maori-
land boom of the last few 7 years, the highest return shown
was in 1903-4, when £3 11s. per cent, was realised. For
the past four years the return has been :
1904- .. .. £3 6 0 per cent.
1905- .. .. 3 4 0 „
1906- .. .. 390
1907- .. .. 360
The total interest bill last year for the whole debt was
£2,478,429, which gives an average of £3 14s. 7d. per cent.
The railways of Maoriland have never shown that return.
Naturally, therefore, with the increase of debt
there has been an increase of taxation : in other words,
the money borrowed by Joe Ward, and by 7 Seddon in his
latter and most foolish days, has not been able to earn its
own keep, wherefore the Maoriland taxpayer has had to
put his hand into his own pocket, and year after year the
hand has had to make a deeper dive. So the taxation
per head of population has bounded up in this extra-
ordinary fashion :
1899 .. £3 13 3 1904 .. £4 8 4
1960 .. 316 10 1905 .. .482
1901 .. 3 19 6 1906 .. 477
1905 .. 3 19 8 1907 .. 4 14 7
1903 .. 418 1908 .. 504
The Official Year Book, noting that there has been an
increase of taxation, remarks that this “ may be regarded
as to a large extent indicative of increased prosperity
enjoyed by the people.” On the same principle, the fact
that a man in a boat is bailing like fury may be taken to
a large extent as indicative that it is a fine morning, and
the man feels like having some exercise. It is much more
likely, however, that the man is bailing like fury 7 because
the boat is leaking, and it is either bail or drown.
And - every year the Maoriland deficit—the dif-
ference between public debt and public property 7—
threatens to grow larger. Among the assets now are in-
cluded lands valued at £32,807,000. That amount is being
steadily 7 cut into by sales, occupation with right of pur-
chase, etc. The proceeds are being used not to reduce
the debt, but as revenue ; and the shameful practice is
being smothered up under the pretence that the Public
Works Fund, which is partly supplied out of revenue, is
being used to provide permanent and reproductive under-
takings. Even, however, at the present time, without any
more improper disposal of assets, it will be seen that
Maoriland’s balance-sheet shows a large deficit. Not-
withstanding the enormous amount of cash which has
hitherto been received on the sale of lands—which money
ought to have been put into other assets—Maoriland’s
railways and other works are valued at only £29,234,000,
while the public debt amounts to £66,453,897. Of that
public .clebt no less than £27,623,547 has been incurred
since 1891. Allowing full value for all the disappearing
public lands, the national books can only be made to
balance by sticking in a goodwill item —“ Powers of
taxation —so much.” In plain language that means
that the Government, not being able to scrape
up enough assets of its own, is now mort-
gaging the private property of the people of
Maoriland. And it is not only mortgaging that property 7,
but it is collecting that property in annual instalments ;
for that is what the increasing taxation means. Sq far,
it hasn’t had to collect any of Maoriland’s private pro-
perty in order to pay principal ; the collections have so
far only been to pay interest. The collections to pay prin-
cipal ;may come in the future—in 1912-13, for instance,
when no less than £5,093,995 will fall due ; or in 1930,
when no less than £29,150,302 of the borrowing curse will
come home to roost.
Generally, no doubt, there has been a fall in the
prices of public securities during the past few years ;
but the fall in Maoriland securities has been so tremendous
that it is obvious that Cohen has noted the facts regarding
the country’s plunging. Here are the lowest quotations
for its 4 per cents, and 3 per cents, for 10 years :
4 Per Cents. 3 Per Cents.
1898 .... 108 96i
1899 .. .. 105£ 94i
1900 .. .. 109 95i
1901 .. .. 110 J 93J:
1902 .. .. 109 93|
1903 .. .. 105 88
1904 .. .. 104 i S6i
1905 .. .. 105 f 89^
1906 .. .. 104§ 87J
1907 .. .. 1031 84
It is true that the prices are still fairly good. Cohen
is apparently not yet very much alarmed ; he looks on the
big private wealth of Maoriland, and consoles himself
with the knowledge that he can draw upon that in
exactly the same way as the bank-depositor knows
that he can squeeze out the shareholders’ uncalled
and reserve capital it anything goes wrong. But while that
is all right for Cohen, what about the owner of the private
wealth? At least, he thinks he is the owner; but it’s
about time he realised that he only owns just as much of
it as the State likes to leave him, and the State is draw-
ing upon him more and more heavily every year as more
and more borrowed money goes into unproductive works.
The holidays have demoralised the State
Treasuries, or the newspaper correspondents, or some
other more or less responsible party, and the full Treasury
returns are not to hand yet. But the N.S.\V. figuses for
the half-year are available, and they are the bluest printed
for many a day. Here is the situation :
Ist six months, Ist six months,
1907-8. 1908-9.
Revenue .. £7,191,078 £6,737,364 Dec. £453,714
Expenditure 5,984,400 6,509,135 Inc. 614,735
Six months’ rush to the bad £1,068,449
The situation is becoming much more serious than the
public seems to realise. For that the Commonwealth is
partly to blame. Down to quite recently it listened to
and heeded the buzzing of the State-Frights swarm,
and, though it knew perfectly well that it would
have to meet heavy expenditure in the near future, it
starved its own services in order to make large refunds to
the State Treasuries; and all it got in return was abuse.
The States themselves had phenomenal revenues at the
moment; the large Commonwealth refunds, which every-
body who thought over the matter must have known
could not be maintained, simply made the Treasuries
slop over, whereupon Bent, Wade, and other “ Reform ”
Premiers struck attitudes and reached out for halos.
Bent did do a bit of loan-repayment; Wade merely
seized the opportunity to cut away taxation, reduce
railway freights and fares wholesale, and pile up
expenditure in almost every direction. Now the Com-
monwealth has simply been forced into doing what
it should have done all along, and has reduced the re-
funds; and simultaneously there is a slump in State
revenues. Yet the N. S. Wales State expenditure con-
tinues on the extravagant basis to which Wade and
Waddell advanced it; and the consequence is that, be-
tween increase of expenditure and decrease of revenue,
this financial half-year is £1,068,449 to the bad as com-
pared with the corresponding part of last financial year.
Meantime, however, Wade and Waddell blaze away at
what they call loan undertakings, and in six months have
spent no less than £1,427,144 of borrowed money, or at
the rate of close upon £3,000,000 a year ; and, instead of
slackening off, the rush continues.' For the first quarter,
£563,973 was spent ; for thesecond quarter, £863,171, orat
the rate of over £3,500,000 a year. The finance of Wade, the
cool, calm iceberg of the daily papers, has run mad. And
something must happen presently. In Victoria, when
something of the same sort took place under that other
cool, calm iceberg, Irvine, the most notable thing that
happened was a wholesale slashing at the Railway ser-
vice, followed first by a disastrous strike and then (after
a period of starving the service) by the appalling Sun-
shine disaster. What will happen in N. S. Wales isn’t
obvious yet; but cool, calm icebergs can’t run amok
without hurting somebody in the end.
* n * »
Justice Hood, of Victoria, and Commonwealth
Statistician Knibbs, the Commission on Insurance, have
made a start by issuing a long series of questions to the
life and fire assurance cos. ; and the answers, which are
expected to be in by the end of January, will form a basis
for the subsequent inquiry. The life offices are asked 111
questions and the fire offices 97 ; and the replies, when
tabulated, should make interesting reading. And there
are still other questions to be asked. For instance, in
issuing prospectuses and rates of premiums, what method is
adopted—are the rates charged-those for next birthday or
for nearest birthday or for last birthday ? Some offices pro-
fess to have very low rates ; their agents compare their
rates at age 30, for instance, with those of other offices at
age 30, and point out that they are lower ; they don’t men-
tion that in one office the man who is3o and three months
has to pay on the 31-year scale, while in the other he only
has to pay on the 30-year scale. The buy 7 er ought to
beware, of course ; but the law ought to protect the
buyer where it can, and it could protect him by providing
that all premium quotations should be made on a uniform
basis—next birthday, or nearest birthday, it doesn’t
matter which. Also some offices load an insurer and don’t
mention a word about it, and in many, cases he goes on
paying the extra premiums for years without knowing
that he has been penalised. There have been cases
in which the insurer, quite unsconscious that he
had been loaded, has declared falsely to another
office that he had been accepted as a first-class life
by the first office. If a proponent is loaded, it ought
to be the duty of the office to make him aware of that
fact when calling upon him for his first premium. The
Commission might have asked the offices what proportion
of cases they loaded during the last, say, three years ; for
obviously an office which loads systematically is in a
better position to declare bonuses than one which does
not load so frequently. The Commission is apparently on
the track of this, for one of its questions is “ What is the
annual amount of the extra premiums, if any, so col-
lected [for under-average lives, etc.] by yourcompany ? ”
That, however, will hardly show the offices’ present
policy.
The Commission asks whether all offices’ ac-
counts should not be made up at the same date. For
statistical purposes that is desirable; yet it doesn’t
matter so much as it does with banks, for, in the case of
the latter, one lot of coin can be used to window-dress
two friendly concerns which balance at different dates.
Uniformity is, however, desirable in other directions.
Expenses ought to be stated gross, and not net. Some
offices don’t include rates and taxes ; they deduct that
outlay from the income from investments, and show the
latter net. This disturbs both interest-rate and expense-
rate comparisons. A question is asked : “ In the valua-
tion of assets, what principle is followed in the case of
debentures, stocks, shares, etc.?” That is, are they
valued at face value, cost price, market price, or how ?
A more doubtful asset in some cases is the item “Free-
hold and leasehold property,” including foreclosures.
Stock —public stock especially—is generally payable at
some time or other at full face value; but there is no
certainty at all that the boom values of freeholds,
etc., will ever return, least of all while the
freehold premises are standing. Almost the first
question which ought to be put to some offices is—
“ What return are you getting from your real estate?
What is it valued at in your balance sheet ? On a 4J per
cent, net basis, what would its value be?”
“Do you consider,” the Commission asks,
“ that generally the collection charges and expenses of
management in connection with Industrial insurance are
in excess of what they should be?” and if they are the
Commission would like to know how they can be reduced.
Curiously the same question isn’t asked in connection
with Ordinary insurance. Yet it i 3 quite safe to say that
more money is wasted over Ordinary insurance than over
Industrial. If all Ordinary business were done at the
rate shown by the office doing business at the lowest rate,
the total saving would probably be greater than
the total amount spent on getting and managing
Industrial business. How can that waste be reduced ?
It seems important to find that out. The Bulletin’s idea
is that the waste arises from the unnecessary multiplica-
tion of offices ; and the sooner three or four or half-a-
dozen of them are amalgamated, and handed over to the
State to manage, the better.
Naturally the questions put by the Insurance
Commission respecting fire insurance are of less general
interest than those relating to life assurance. Many of
them have a bearing on “ valued ” policies ; the first two
questions under that head open up the whole subject:
“ What is your opinion concerning the proposal to
make the actual amount insured by a fire policy'
payable in every case of total loss?” and “If a
co. requires proof of amount of loss sustained, can it
equitably retain premiums paid in excess of the risk in-
curred ?” Also, then, “ Do you consider that such ex-
cess should be returned ?” The difficulty is simply one
of expense. If an office has to pay the fuil amount of the
policy 7, then it will have to value every risk beforehand,
and have it re-valued frequently. As to excess payments
of premiums, what excess ? For the year in which the
fire happens? If so, the amount is hardly worth talking
about. Yet if the excess for all the previous years were
repayable, endless trouble would arise. Property, for
instance, may have depreciated in value ; the eo. might
in the first year have been liable for the full amount of
the policy had the premises been destroyed then. Fur-
ther, if cos. were liable for refunds, they would have to
show a contingent liability of an unknown size. The
present system looks illogical; but for practical purposes
it is ahead of anything else so far suggested.
A question is asked whether there should be
a minimum of reserve fund in proportion to the
amount at risk. It is hard to see what reserve
fund has to do with it. The size of the reserve
fund alone isn’t of much consequence; it is the
size of the reserves plus the capital that counts. It
is important that a co. should have large funds in pro-
portion to risks; yet that is not the only test. Two
other things count —(1) The nature of the risks ; (2) the
nature of securities in which the funds have been placed.
Funds that would be ample to hold against the risks in-
volved in policies covering i;100,000 of detached sub-
urban brick and stone villas would be utterly inadequate
to hold against the risk involved in policies covering the
same amount in, say, the Sydney block bounded by Mar-
ket, King, Pitt and Castlereagh streets—or in any way-
out town with wooden buildings and no water-supply to
speak of. Regarding assets, the Commission might in-
quire as to the proportion of mortgages : also as to the
wisdom of a co. lending on the security of premises which
it also insures.
The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
AGENgy Co., Ltd.:—
Paid on
Full Interest account
on Ist and Interest Divi-
Gross 2nd Deben- on 3rd De- dend
June, Profits, tures Paid, bentures. (5p.c.). Deficit.
1899.. £108,705 £100,595 £1,377
Reserves.
1900.. 167,582 100,580 15,016 £51,986
1901.. 100,859 100,594 265 51,986
1902.. 101,195 100,659 536 51,986
f 101,050 100,658 3921
1903.. -( Suspense account (£51,213) 103,199
( added to reserves J
1904 -1 100,657 16,901 | 103 957
1904.. |Written off, £4459 / 103,95/
IQn , 1121,952 100,658 16,901 | inassn-?
1905 •• \ Written off, £3548 / ~ 104 ' 802
1906.. 177,104 100,965 17,160 £6423 157,358
/ 180,416 98,953 17,2591
1907.. -( Suspense account (£100,000) >- 6429 315,133
I. added to reserves J
1908.. J 157,703 98,953 17,259 1 04'20 400,195
\ Surpluses on sales, £50,000 /
This co. was formed away back in 1865, and had a very
good time for many years. Then came the Maoriland
boom, followed by a burst when an alarmed Bull tem-
porarily stopped the big loans, and the high values
rushed back like the tide down the Bay of Fundy. While
this co. was in trouble over that, the rabbits and the
drought together undermined the pastoral boom-values
in Australia, and shocking prices for wool completed the
trouble. It isn’t at all a cheerful thing to remember even
now that at the end of 1892 and 1893 the average price for
good N.S.W. merino fleece in London was 7d. and in 1894
6d. ; if we can’t get lid. now in Sydney or Melbourne for
good fleece we reckon that something has gone wrong
with the market, or the broker has made a mess of it, or
something of the sort. Anyhow, in 1894 the old co. had
to disappear, and a new co.—the present one—was formed.
Things vvere, however, worse than it thought, and the
recovery of prices, etc., was so slow that in 1897 another
arrangement had to be made-—a very sweeping one this
time: £1,042,142 was written off share capital and
£1,448,325 off debenture capital. But debenture holders
were given certain rights, which so effectually blocked a
dividend that in 1903 a Bill was passed through the
British Parliament making some important changes in
the re-arrangement. The capital is now as follows:
Total Held by
Amount. the Co.
Share Capital.. .. .. £135,352
Ist Debentures (4 p.c.) .. 2,350,000 £387,554
2nd Debentures (4 p.c.) .. 540,768 29,380
3rd Debentures (41 p.c.) .. 405,576 22,035
Interest on the third debentures is, however, payable only
out of profits, and 2 per cent, is cumulative for five years.
According to a circular issued from the co.’s office and
dated June 20, 1903, the rate of interest on third deben-
tures must also be increased at the same rate as the divi-
dend on the shares if the latter passes 5 per cent. So far no
attempt has been made to pay more than a 5 percent, div.,
though very large additions have been made to reserves
during the past three years. These additions have been
partly out of current profits, and partly out of surpluses
realised on sale of written-down assets ; and the fact that
the assets have been realising more than their book value
is a distinctly cheerful feature of the case. So far as
shareholders are concerned, there are, however, other
features —(1) The heavy liability. The shares are 10s. paid
and are liable for £8 10s. This looked so formidable
that as late as 1904 a transferee required £4 with
each share. The growth of the reserves has, how-
ever, so completely altered the outlook that the
latest London quotation for the shares was par. (2)
The heavy debenture and other debt. Debentures alone
amount to £3,296,343, of which, bn the other hand,
£438,969 is held by the co. .itself. Apart from 3rd
debenture interest reserve (which is earmarked,.and not
included with the reserves shown above), the other
liabilities amount to £824,607. On the other side there
are £310,297 of liquid assets, £2,858,660 of advances,
£309,797 of properties, stock, and merchandise : £438,969
of the co.’s own debentures, £337,112 of stores, etc.
Then there is also £552,658 in the New Zealaud Land Asso-
ciation, of which this co. is the sole owner. The co.’s
business is, of course, speculative ; but it has had what
looks like a very thorough cleaning up, and, though a
re-action is highly probable, the Loan and Mercantile
ought to be very well situated to meet it without suffer-
ing serious trouble.
As mentioned just now, neither the shares nor
the debentures of the N.Z. Land Association, Ltd., are on
the market, the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Co. holding all
the stock. The association has total reserves of £106,004 ;
and as £445,351 of its total assets (£662,372) is either on
cash or loaned to the parent co., the z-eserve protection
is very substantial. After allowing something to meet
the possible depreciation of assets, these reserves can be
regarded as reserves belonging to the parent co., in ad-
dition to its own £400,195 ; for, of course, the subsidiary
co.’s reserves are not shown on the parent co.’s balance-
sheet. The subsidiary co.’s profits last year, after paying
debenture interest, were £16,101, out of which it was
proposed to appropriate 5 p.c. on capital. This dividend
would absorb £9799, and would reduce the reserves to
£96,295.
-*■#«*
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends.
Pref. Written
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. Off. Deficit.
£ £ " £ £ £
Mar., ’04.. 3750 Bp.c. = 5000 164,131
Sept.,’o4 .. 13,873 3750 8 „ ~5000 720 159,728
Mar., ’O5 .. 14,887 3750 10 „ ~ 6250 701 155,542
Sept.,’os .. 15,306 3750 10 ~ ~6250 706 150,942
Mar., ’O6 .. 13,846 3750 10 „ ~6250 722 147,818
Sept.,’o6 .. 16,012 3750 10 „ ~ 6250 724 142,530
Mar., ’O7 .. 15,600 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 962 139,142
Sept.,’o7 .. 15,666 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 979 135,705-
Mar., ’OB .. 16,579 3750 12 ~ ~ 7500 989 131,365
• Sept.,’oB .. 17,436 3750 12 ~ ~7500 4085 129,264
This co., which tells Melbourne in the evening about the
bloodstain, and marks with an X the place where the
tragedy happened, and once a week gives information as
to the proper method of pruning pumpkins, has a good-
will item of £195,000. In the foreg'oing table this in-
tangible asset has, of course, been disregarded, atid the
deficit is the amount of the goodwill item less the total
of the reserves. The capital is 125,000 pref. shares of £1
and the same number of ordinaries, also fully paid to £l.
Against this there are the following substantial assets—
Freehold, £49,828 ; machinery and plant, £26,534 ; stock,
£8667 ; liquid assets (net), £46,957 ; total, £131,986.
Thus—
Liquid assets £131,986
Less dividend 11,250
£120,736
Capital paid up 250,000
Deficit as above £129,264
The liquid assets are mostly fixed deposits and Met.
Board of Works debentures; £9747 “sundry debtors” is
also included. A revaluation of the machinery, etc., has
been made during the past term, and a special writing-
off of £2793 is shown, which suggests that the allowance
for depreciation hitherto has been somewhat under the
mark.
* * * *
Union Steamship Co. op New Zealand (M.L.):
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900.. 7 per cent. =£42,000 £230,404
1901.. £91,620 8 ~ ~ 48,000 £43,620 274,024
1902.. 75,227 8 ~ „ 48,000 27,227 301,251
1903.. 9(1,744 8 „ „ 48,000 42,744 343,995
1904.. 129,929 10 „ „ 60,000 69,928 413,923
1905.. 96,764 8 ~ ~ 48,000 48,764 462,687
1906.. 94,906 10 ~ ~ 60,000 34,906 497,593
1907.. 144,324 10 ~ „ 60,000 84,324 581,917
Transferred to Capital, £200,000, leaving.. 381,917
1908.. 241,334 9 per cent. = 71,667 169,667 551,584
It seems hardly credible ; and yet on the published ac-
counts it won’t work out otherwise, no matter how you
twistand turn it. The fact, no doubt, is that the profit for
the year wasn’t £241,334, but that really the reserves, as at
Sept. 30, 1907, were more than £581,917. The excess
reserves over and above £581,917 were not disclosed ;
they were internal reserves provided out of undisclosed
profits to meet contingencies which didn’t turn up. As
they were passed into the formal reserves at last, they
have now to be shown as profits, not having been shown
previously. All but a little of the recent £200,000 added
to capital was therefore added out of these secret re-
serves ; consequently, in spite of the capitalising of
£200,000 of reserves, the formal reserves stand at almost
the same figure as they did 12 months ago :
Sept., 1907. Sept., 1908.
Reserve fund .. .. £150,000 £150,000
Insurance fund .. 424,149 387,063
Undivided profit.. .. 7,768 14,521
Total .. .. £681,917 £551,584
The published profit and loss account (which is only a
skeleton, and merely shows profits after deducting al-
lowances of unknown size for insurance, repairs, renewals,
etc.) says that the net profit for the year was £76,880,
as against £68,745 for 1907 and £60,340 for 1906. “Net
profit” is, however, a very elastic term; as the recent
experience shows, amounts transferred to reserves may
be quite as much profit as are the amounts that are made
available for immediate distribution. Of course, an insur-
ance reserve isn’t the best sort of reserve ; it stands
against certain risks. But it is clear that the co.
has other reserves—probably for repairs, renewals, etc.—
which are fed out of profits; and these reserves don’t
even appear as reserves, so that the profits which are
paid into these funds don’t appear as profits either —
until, that is, they are dealt with as they have been
during the past 12 months.
Nor is it possible to say what amount is written
off profits to cover depreciation. For some years the co.
set out the tonnage of its fleet ; and some sort of an idea
could be got from that ; but it has now blocked up even
that small window. This shows the situation as far as it
can be figured out
Change
Value Set Tonnage in
Tonnage on Added Value
of Shipping During During
Fleet. Property. Year. Year.
1900 .. 77,738 £746,300
Added.
1901 .. 82,847 748,300 5109 £2lOO
Reduced.
1902 .. 88,263 670,700 5416 77,700
Added.
1903 .. 89,851 -678,100 1588 7,400
1904 .. 92,293 791,800 8442 113,700
Reduced
1905 .. 103,758 708,600 5465 83,200
Added.
1906 .. 112,853 953,486 9095 244,586
1907 .. 1,060,450 106,964
1908 .. 1,264,556 204,106
Between 1900 and 1906 the co. added 35,115 tons to its
fleet, yet only increased the book value of the fleet by
£207,186 ; the unknown balance of the cost—certainly
over £lso,ooo—was paid for out of undisclosed profits,
and was written off as a provision for the wear and tear
of the vessels. But what has been similarly written off in
the past two years cannot be even guessed at.
The co. owes £165,638 on debentures, as against
£168,338 a year previously. As a result of the increase of
capital it can, if it wants to, now raise £400,000 in that
way. Other debts total £323,470. As against that it
held in cash, investments and book debts (£110,354)
a total of £454,730, or £414,730 after providing
for the past half-year's dividend. This second half
year’s dividend (including bonus), by the way, is at the
rate of 10 percent.: the dividend for the first half of the
year was at the rate of about 8 per cent. (9£d. per share).
The co.’s position is obviously strong; yet precisely how
strong it is there is no way of ascertaining. We can only
probe here and there ; yet wherever the probing is done
something very solid is invariably met with.
The expected increase of capital has now been
decided upon by the directors of the North Shore Gas Co.
(Sydney). The present paid capital is £150,000 in £1
shares ; the new issue will consist of 30,000 shares at par,
so that the holder of every five shares may apply for one
of the new issue. During the past 12 months, in antici-
pation of “something being done,” the shares have
moved along from 395. to 455.; and at the latter rate, as
the dividend is 8 p.c., the investment return is only
£3 Us. Id. p.c. At 455. cum, rights the position will be
(assuming the 8 p.c. dividend to continue) —Five shares
at 455. = £ll ss. One at 20s. = 20s. Total for six, £l2 ss.
Dividend at 8 p.c. on six shares, 9s. 7d. = £3 18s. 4d. p.c.
In order to get a 4 p.c. return an investor must
get the shares cum rights at 445. (Five shares at 445. =
2205. ; and one at 20s. = 20s. Total for 6 = 2405. Divi-
dend at 8 per cent. = 9s. 7d., or to be precise, 9'605.) It
will thus be seen that the present operation has been
over-discounted, even if 4 per cent, is regarded as a suffi-
cient return in view of probable future increases of divi-
dend. The co.’s dividends are payable in January and
July, and the first call on the new shares will be due in
March.
* ■* * *
H. McKenzie, Ltd., was formed in Sydney in
June, 1906, to take over and extend the business of H.
McKenzie, timber merchant. There was an issue of
40,000 preference shares (carrying 10 percent, preference
for six years), and 37,500 ordinary shares, all of £1 each.
For the first half-year 10 per cent, per annum was paid on
the preference shares and 5 per cent, per annum on the
ordinaries ; in 1907 the ordinary dividend was put up to
7 per cent. Insufficient capital had been subscribed, and
last year another £20,480 was raised by a further issue of
ordinary' shares. Even this, however, appears to have
been not enough, and at September 30 last sundry credi-
tors stood at £60,368. This large growth of liabilities was
due to some extent to heavy capital outlay, as follows: —
Mar.,’oB. Sept.,’oB. Increase.
Kauri bush purchases .. £13,181 £17,221 £4,040
Hardwood ditto (Ourim-
bah) 833 2,588 1,755
Electrical plant .. .. 19,726 22,959 3,233
Stock at Sydney.. .. 49,646 60,000 11,354
Ditto Melbourne .. 4,000 5,000 1,000
Stock in transit .. .. 3,609 3,609
£87,386 £111,377 £24,991
In view of the heavy expenditure, and presumably on ac-
count of the large debt, the dividends for last half-year are


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM. CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
• NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K„ 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; CERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
Irk Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ’’are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4jd. per word, “VIA PACIFIC,” accented
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
F. H. LLOYD & GO. Ltd
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
LOHMANN COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS for_nTTflß AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohlio, Cologne, as
‘supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY B -—Excavators and Dredging: Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [?
“deferred” ; apparent!} 7 as soon as the financial-position
is strengthened, 10p.c. on the pref. shares and 7 p.c. on
the ordinaries will be paid. These dividends would absorb
£4030, assuming that the full amount of the ordinary
capital carries dividend for the six months. The pay-
ment of these dividends would leave £15,264 of reserves,
including reserves earmarked for the maintenance of the
ordinary-share dividends. Theoretically this plan of
deferring the payment of dividends may be all right ; but.
it has its drawbacks. It practically amounts to a forced
loan to the co. without interest ; and that isn’t a desir-
able way of financing. Under ordinary circumstances, at
any rate, it would be better, if more capital is needed, to
raise it in the plain, orthodox manner ; and it looks
highly probable that that will yet have to be done in this
case. A capital of £97,980 is certainly inadequate if the
co. proposes to carry £60,000 of stock at Sydney alone.
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance
Co. has undergone still another change. Originally regis-
tered in Queensland in 1895, it had a violent row with its
managing director, Terence J. Harold, and bought him
out in some way. Subsequently it transferred itself to
Sydney, and has been leading a strenuous life during the
past few years, struggling after industrial assurance
business. Some little time ago it considered its relations
with ex-managing-director Harold, and Costs began to fly
about; but somebody evidently took the directors aside
and asked whether it would pay the society to wash some
considerably soiled linen in public. So nothing more
was heard of those actions. Against very strong com-
petition the co. was making poor headway ; wherefore it
isn’t astonishing to find that the office has decided to go
into a wider field, and one certainly where it is likely,
with good management, to show better results. So the
Metropolitan Accident, Fire and General Insurance Co.,
Ltd., has been formed, with the pretentious capital of
£250,000. How much of this is paid up isn’t mentioned ;
at the date of the last published balance-sheet (Dec. 31,
1907), the paid capital of the old co. was only £10,632.
The new co. leaves the old co. only its Ordinary and a
portion of its Industrial business ; and as the co.’s new
Ordinary business in 1907 only amounted to 755 policies
of about £75 each, how the change is going to make
things better for the old co. isn’tdear. Even with all
its business it was too small to show good results.
**' * *
The long-inevitable trouble has started in
Maoriland. Again and again lately The Bulletin has
drawn attention to the excessive borrowings of the local
building, finance and other cos.—concerns which have
simply followed the policy of the State itself. Naturally
the small concern goes first, not necessarily because it is
really in any worse position than the big one ; often the
big one can hold out longest simply because it is in abetter
position to “ bluff.” The Commercial Property and
Finance Co. (Dunedin) had about £9300 of its own, and
had j lent out £50,000. The public wanted some of
its money, and the foolish co. had undertaken to repay
on demand. Of course, it couldn’t realise fast enough
to keep the withdrawing depositors going. It staved
them off by increasing its overdraft for a time ; but then
the bank shut down, and the co. had to shut up—the
only way by which it could get time to realise the
securities in which it had locked the public’s money.
Now the shareholders can sit down and think hard.
There are 24,765 shares, paid to 7s. 6d. each, and they
are liable for £4 per share. The depositors look on that
£4 per share, and feel comforted ; the shareholders who
accepted that liability in connection with such a busi-
ness as this probably feel something else. If they feel
like fools they won’t be so far out. And this co. has been
paying £6 13s, 4d. per cent. divs. !
The two years’ wages agreement fixed up in
1906 by the Broken Hill Prop, expired on December 31,
and trouble started straightaway. The co. wanted the
men to work for less pay pending an appeal to Arbitra-
tion ; but, as most of the other mines had agreed to go
on under the old scale, the men refused. Work therefore
has stopped and the mine is picketed. It is a tough
situation. The men are picketing 1 a mine which the
owners really don’t want to work : anyhow, that has
been The Bulletin’s views for months past, though
naturally enough the men can’t, as a whole, bring,them-
selves to believe it. Local opinion regarding any mine is
nearly always inflated ; every mining field’s geese are
swans, .Always the yarn has been told that the Broken
Hill lode was “practically inexhaustible”; but the
tremendous drain upon the B. H. Prop, for the
past .21 years has told its tale. Other mines
have improved, while the B. H. Prop, has lost ground.
The shoot pitches north and south. The B. H. Prop, got
it at and near the surface, but loses it at depth. Others,
like the Squtji and North, got nothing to speak of near
the surface, but are in clover at depth. With the end in
sight the B. H. Prop, has become careful of its ore.;
anxious to make the most of it, it doesn’t want to work
when the markets are sick. Also it wants to reorganise
its staff and do some weeding out. Further, a good deal
of repairing and renewing is called for. With a brisk
metal market in 1906-7, everything was run at high
pressure; and repairs were neglected. The co. has been
rushing that work along lately, but much remains to be
done; in fact, the co. could keep its carpenters, etc.,
well employed till Easter without breaking a ton of ore.
If only it could get a few mechanics in and enough others
to look after the fire it would be quite happy. That
underground fire is the real trouble. To look after that,
and d 6 a bit of necessary timbering here and there —for
some parts of these mines are always on the move—will
call for about 100 men-a shift at the B. H. Prop. If the
Co. can’t get that lot, then it will have to reckon itself
beaten. If it can (and 300 is a mere handful compared
with the crowd usually employed) the B. H. Prop, will
be content to leave the ore in the mine, awaiting a better
market—just, in fact, as the British and Block 14, next
door, did all last year.
* * * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, will have to keep step
with the B.H. Prop. ; for Block 10 depends on its parent
to smelt its concentrates, and the B. H. Prop’s smelters
and refinery at Port Pirie have closed down. The works
had enough ore to keep them going for a while ; but the
workmen at the mine and at Port Pirie are acting in har-
mony. The South, Central (Sulphide Corporation),
North, 1 Junction North, and South Blocks will not be
affected, unless something unexpected happens—and
that is what pretty often does happen when once a strike
starts. The combined unions will, however, go a little out
of their way to keep those mines running, because from
the men in work a stiff levy will be collected to keep
something in the cupboards of those who have been
thrown out.
After a long spell of idleness, the old Major’s
Creek Gold Mine (N.S. W.) is to be given another trial by
J. Bull. The workings are full of water at present; but
this will be pumped out, and, according to present in-
tentions, a moderate amount will be spent on legitimate
prospecting. J. Bull is said to thoroughly understand
this tinie that his first job is to find ore; and, knowing
that, he probably won’t commit his usual blunder of
spending his money on top hamper.
Ex-manager Moss was made the scapegoat at
the Hainault (W.A.) meeting in London. Chairman
Gillies told shareholders in a bitter, unforgiving tone that
the past year’s mess was due to the Board going nap
Moss’s estimates of ore reserves, and as to the cost and
efficiency of the new treatment plant. As a result of
these alleged miscalculations, and because a heavy bank
liability had been incurred, the bears went in and banged
a good many saxpences off the market value of shares.
Moss gave an explanation for all this, but so far the Board
prefers to keep it up its sleeve. Why not put it before
shareholders and let them judge for themselves?
Reward Gold Mines, Ltd., a 1906 reconstruction
of Field’s Find (W.A.), has passed out. An interest in a
very rickety concern known as the Claremont Co. has
been fished out of its belongings, but as this doubtful
legacy carries a liability of 6d. per share, and as the Clare-
mont’s life is scarcely worth a day’s purchase, the Reward
hasn’t much to jingle on its tombstone.
* » » *
Orion (W.A.) has just issued another of its
occasional financial statements. This time the period
covered is 18 months, and elation is writ largely over the
face of the directors’ report because the whole cost of
work done during the term mentioned has been defrayed
from gold won, and because the co. has got out of debt.
The Board has great hopes of the mine turning out well
some day, but it belongs to the class of “ stringers,” from
which only vexation of spirit is to be extracted.
* * • *
A lot of rubbish is now being printed in Wes-
tralia about the prospects of the Lady Miller, Norseman ;
and its early flotation in London is said to be assured.
One fact carefully kept in the background is that the
mine has been worked a long while and has never done
any good. In view of this and the frantic eagerness
shown by the present co. to pass it on to some other con-
cern, something more than palpably inspired newspaper
puffs ought to be required to convince the public that
the venture is what it is represented to be.
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.) is still “financ-
ing ” ; but as it has been doing so for the past thirteen
years, there is nothing very remarkable in that. Revenue
account for the year ended June 30 shows a “profit” of
£4306, which with £5070 brought forward makes a total
balance of £9376 ; but as £BOOO comes off for sinking and
equipping new main shaft, and £986 is deducted on
account of other charges, the year’s expenditure is really
£4680 in excess of income. As usual, untreated residues
and a small tonnage of ore reserves are made the most of
as assets, but so long as the cost of working exceeds the
value of gold-production their real value is below nought.
Meantime year after year goes by without shareholders
receiving anything, but the officials in London get their
pickings all the time. No wonder information concern-
ing the mine is denied to local papers. The least said
about concerns such as this the better it is for those in
control.
* • * *
Charters Towers’ dividend record :
1905 .. .. £219,650 I 1907 .. .. £120,099
1906 .. .. 176,602 | 1908 ... .. 100,980
In each of the last two years Mills United has paid
£75,000; and when that comes off there isn’t much left
for the others to make up. Still it took five to doit —
Brilliant Extended, £6250 ; I). D. Block and Wyndham,
£6230 ; Bonnie Dundee, £6OOO ; Brilliant Central, £5OOO ;
and Ruby, £2500. Brilliant St. George and Kelly’s have
both dropped out; and so have the Carrington group,
which promised well in 1905-6, and would have done
much better if the Towers had known more about copper
and less about market tricks.
* * - IT *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, has
an eye on John Bull’s cheque book, and intends opening
a share register in London. Development on the hanging
wall section of the Day Dawn looks better. Both the top
level (No. 5) at 64ft. and No. 6 at 175 ft. show 15in. of
mineral stone. No. 5 is of special interest to the East
Mexican, which has been so down on its luck lately. Con-
ditions have also improved at No. 7 main level ; the reef,
after being disturbed by adioritebar, is expected to make
again. But it seems farcical to base such high-flown
anticipations for the whole field on a reef that splits and
breaks as this one does.
* * * *
Queensland Exploration, Cloncurry (Q.), has
got a reduction of freight on coke and copper matte. The
latter is now carried from Cloncurry to Townsville for as
little as £1 6s. lOd. per ton. The Great Australian, the
chief of the freeholds held by the Exploration Co., is
shipping 272 tons of matte, a little over half of it copper,
per month. The extraction is between 6 and 7 p.c., with
rich oxides, old furnace slag, and sulphide ore included.
The new blast furnace has been blown in, and the works
can no longer be satirically compared with a scrap-iron
foundry. There is a big overdraft; but as the co. carries
a quantity of high-grade copper matte and other
material, finances are not as precarious as they look.
There are also a few thousand reserve shares (7991).
Sulphides at 250 ft. average between 4 and 5 p.c. copper,
although they are also stoping a fair amount of 6 p.c.
ore. The future depends on the discovery of large bodies
of sulphides with a calcite gangue ; the fluxing properties
of the ore, especially in such a place, are almost as un-
important as metal contents.
v * * *
The ghastly tail of Gyrnpie (Q.) :
Stone, tons. Gold, oz. Dividends. Calls.
1903 .. 186,642 176,369 £318,858 £86,747
1904 .. 209,644 153,516 239,904 70,957
1905 .. 213,454 138,403 195,875 65,727
1906 .. 213,967 130,050 177,439 50,945
1907 .. 162,514 76,916 67,149 47,409
1908 .. 135,910 74,741 68,166 50,787
The figures for last year are as near as they can be
got for a week or two. The most cheerful feature is that
calls have increased a trifle, which shows that the field
doesn’t take quite so gloomy a view of itself as it did a
while ago.
During the 1906 tin boom, Stannary Hills,
Smith’s Creek, and the Vulcan (N.Q.) produced about
£12.000 worth of tin concentrates per month —nearly
half the output of the extensive Walsh and Tinaroo dis-
trict. Stannary Hills and Smith’s Creek then collapsed,
but are making afresh start, and are pushing develop-
ment work along. Both reconstructions were merely a
matter of gathering in a few thousands to grub along
with. There is the same extraordinary burden of shares
to carry, ridiculously disproportioned to ore reserves.
Development work is’very expensive ; on recent figures it
cost Stannary Hills nearly 6s. per ton of ore mined. And
Stannary Hills has a debenture debt (carrying interest)
to make things worse. Chillagoe took care of itself in the
matter of debenture interest; but if Stannary Hills has
got any concession, the fact is kept very quiet. Smith’s
Creek is doing some useful development work, and has a
little tin ore in sight.
* * * *
All the metal markets are riddles ; but of all of
them the tin-market riddle is the hardest to solve.
Though still, comparatively speaking, a fine price, the
metal didn’t fulfil in 1908 the promise of the first few
months. After sparing up to an average of £ISO 17s. 6d.
in 1906, it dropped to £172 16s. sd. in 1907. But it had
slumped horribly in the last months of that year, and the
average (spot) for January, 1908, was only £123 13s. Id.
Then, without any apparent reason, it sprinted away till
the April average was £143 15s. 3d.; and it looked as
though the old-boom prices were returning. But they
didn’t; instead, prices fell away nearly as fast as they
had recovered, and the year wound up with the market
wobbling between £l3O and £135. On past records it
would be impossible to expect even that to last; for over
a quarter of a century before 1899 the year’s average had
only three times passed £lOO. One remarkable thing is that
the jump took place all at once : in 1898 the average was
£7l 4s. 7d., and in 1899 it was £122 Ss. 6d., and it has
only once got below that in the 10 years that have since
happened. Another remarkable thing 1 is that, whereas
tin and silver were always expected to wobble in har-
mony, silver within the past three months has got down
to within a fraction of a penny of the lowest on record,
while tin is just about double the price it was 15 years
ago. It is pretty obvious that something has happened
to upset all the old ideas about the tin market. With
silver so cheap, it is hardly possible that it is cost-
ing more to produce tin in the Straits and thereabouts
(where about 71,000 out of the world’s total of 98,000 tons
a year comes from) ; and the only explanation is that, in
view of the much increased demand on account of the
canning industry, etc., the Dutch and Chinese bosses
of the business have put their heads together, and are
keeping the market where it is. If so, the price is arti-
ficial, and if anything should go wrong with the works,
bang would go the market! The outsider isn’t at all
likely to know when things are going to break, so tin
shares are a gamble—you practically hack the Dutchman
and the Chinaman to go on keeping their heads together
so as to prop the market up.
* * * *
Although the Board of the O.K. (North Queens-
land) may be justified in shaking hands with itself over
the steadiness of the ore reserves and the developments
at the north end, it must be remembered that the present
cost of producing copper will not stand a much greater
reduction in the grade of the ore. That grade has been
steadily declining from year to year. Taking the price
paid for copper at £6s—and there is nothing certain about
the assumption that this figure will be maintained —an
average value of under 5J p.c. will not pay ; and at £55
for copper the grade must be I p.c. higher. Of the
20,000 odd tons of ore reserves, 10,000 are credited to the
open cut and north lease, and 60 p.c. of the ore smelted
during the half-year came from above the 115 ft. level in
the old mine. It does not appear, therefore, that much
of the kaolinised ore above that level (which kept the
average value up to 8 p.c.) remains. Everything seems
to depend on whether the northern lease will produce
sufficient high-grade ore of a suitable nature to smelt vyith
the low-grade sulphides at the bottom of the old mine.
Hope fathers the statement that underneath the 200 ft.
level the basic ore increases in value, and certain assays of
borings are produced as evidence. The withholding of
dividends out of the profits for the past half-year is due
to the determination of the management to sink to 600 ft.
to prove this ore.
» * * *
Since it was resumed, exploration atMt. Molloy
(N.Q.)has not given any cheering results: nothing but
small veins and nodules of copper ore have been found.
So the management turns more and more towards the
timber business, having got a fine concession from the
Government on the strength of its railway-building work.
The co. has lately bought sawmills at Mareeba, at the
junction of the Chillagoe railway and the State’s Cairns-
Atherton line. The one drawback to the development of
the trade is the heavy freight on timber shipments from
Cairns to southern ports.
**. * *
A misunderstanding between the directors of
Mt. Hector (Q.) and the mine manager has ended in the
retirement of the latter, and hastened the inevitable de-
cision to knock off smelting. It has been evident for
some time that development was not keeping pace with
the consumption of ore, and towards the end of the
smelting campaign very little except barren stuff was
going through. The coming year will be spent in de-
velopment only, and a call will probably be made to pro-
vide funds. By the end of 1909, should the ore turn up,
the proximity of the railway will make it possible to
produce the metal at a reasonable cost.
* * * *
Ballarat did not provide many plums for the
Christmas pudding this year. The Sebastopol Plateau
bubble got so badly 7 pricked that it blew out altogether.
The miserable 3000 oz. output was not enough to pay for
oil and grease for the big plants and pumps. So Ballarat
East had to come to the rescue, half-a-dozen mines fur-
nishing £19,650 in dividends, as follows : Victoria United,
£6OOO (decrease, £-1000); Llanberris No. 1, £3600 (de-
crease, £600); N. Woah Hawp, £lBOO (decrease, £1200) :
New Normanby, £5400 (increase, £5400); Llanberris,
£6OO (increase, £100); and New Imperial, £2250 (increase,
£750). While dividends in Ballarat were about on the
same scale as in 1907, outside districts fared rather badly 7,
Ajax, at Daylesford, fell from £25,500 to £8250, Jubilee
(Scarsdale), having got into poorer dirt, could only return
£lO,BOO against £16,200. All the i erringa mines shrank
in their shoes. It is Written locally that “the chief pro-
ducing mines are looking forward hopefully to 1909.” The
writer who penned that, did well to adopt the impersonal
style, as investors in Ballarat never looked more down in
the mouth than at the end of 1908.
Yellow and black ore in the specimens from
the Mt. Bowen copper mine, Gippsland East, displayed
not long ago in a Collins-street (Melb.) window, were as
brilliant as the stripes on a zebra. So off the parcel was
carted to the Anglo-French Exhibition, London. On this
side of the globe a driblet of £l2OO was put up to prove
the extent of a deposit that was to turn East Gippsland
into another Mt. Lyell. Shock No. 1 is the discovery 7
that in lift, of diiving on the centre vein good ore
cut out. Shock No. 2is that a winze sunk on the
good ore for 60ft. went down in such rapidly
diminishing values that from 35ft. onwards only poor
stuff was present. Shock No. 3 was as deadly as a blow
from Johnson or a mule. A crosscut from the bottom of
the winze across the lode, covering 44ft., was all in very
poor grade ore. All that can be done is to work the little
patches of rich ore. While this might do if cheap transit
were available, no one wants to take on the job in the
wilds of Gippsland. Whence came the inspiration to
send specimen ore to London ? As London was tickled
with the ore, a copy of the directors’ report, in order to
put facts as they stand about copper mining in Victoria,
ought to follow.
* * *
Senator Clemons, of the nice voice and the nice
manners, has left for London to try to wrest control of
the Tasmanian Copper 00. from the directors there. He
got the kick when he tried to do the same thing 12
months back, and it remains to be seen whether deben-
ture-holders and shareholders at that end like Clemons
better now than they did then. Charges are made that
under London directors the co. lost £30,000 on properties
outside Tasmania. That is true. Yet there is a heap of
extenuation. The Tasmanian copper mine is a deplorable
mixture. Gold, lead, zinc blend, silver, and probably 7
some arsenic are in it. Hence the late general-manager
Henrie, who knew a bit about copper, looked afield,
and spotted the Blinman, as well as some copper
prospecting shows farther north in South Australia,
Blinman panned out O.K. until the copper slump, which
also blew out a project to float off the Tasmanian show
into a separate concern. It is by no means certain that
Clemons will ever get half the run out of the Tasmanian
copper mine that Henrie did out of the Blinman. To
revile London for what looked to be a fair deal isn’t the
thing. Anyway, if Launceston wants the mine, by all
means let it have it; and it might even keep Clemons,
too. Just for the moment, however, he will have to
argue with £23,000 of debenture debt, and that will pro-
bably be the snag he won’t be able to get over.
+ * 9 *
Word comes out of the death of metallurgist
Heberlein, one of the inventors of the Huntingdon-
Heberlein desulphurising 1 process, and the first manager
of the lead smelting works on the Tasmanian West
Coast.
* * * *
One of these days there will be a Northern
Territory 7 salt industry 7 that will be worth a bit to Aus-
tralia. Especially 7 down near the Queensland border there
are flats, both along some of the rivers and near the
coast, which are submerged at very 7 high tide. There is
no local refinery, of course ; yet even without that the
Territory gets salt for stock requirements from this
source.
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than ariy other. It saves from 20
percent, in fuel, keeps'steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * ♦
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Griniwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
■»■***
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although he is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of’97. Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are not experts generally
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney ; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry and
expense.*
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on thecoarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a,
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [2
R. and ,T. Dick, Glasgow, patented and made
“ Balata ” Belting, universally famed by its excellence
for heavy mine work. Their quality is still unapproached.
For protection against inferior imitations note the
maker’s name stamped on every few feet. Sole importers,
James Hardie and Co.^ Sydney and Melbourne.* [1
The Review, of Sydney, in its October, 1907,
issue, writes regarding the new Combined Life Accident
and Invalidity Policy of the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Limited:—“We must congratulate The
Colonial Mutual upon this latest development of its busi-
ness, and would at the same time commend this very
liberal and complete policy to the earnest consideration
of our readers.”*
ft •* * *
Wherever iron of superior quality and excep-
tional tensile strength is required engineers specify the
famous best Yorkshire “ Farnley ” Iron. This iron is
made from refined pig iron, is puddled into practically
pure wrought iron, hammered and piled before rolling.
Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, have been appointed sole agents for the Farnley
Iron Co., Ltd., Leeds, and hold representative stocks of
“Farnley” bars at their warehouses in Sydney and
Fremantle, W.A.* . .
* * * *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
■r * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax” brand, which is
superseding*’all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Win. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Oollins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
* » * »
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
CHARTERS TOWERS.—Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
* * • *
That Jeffrey Labor Saving Machinery has
taken a great hold in Australia is well shown in a
bulletin just issued by Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7
Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne,
which illustrates a number of complete equipments in-
stalled by them in various parts of the Commonwealth,
comprising belt and cable conveyors, picking tables,
woolbale elevators, etc. The pictures are excellently
shown of plants in actual work in mines, breweries, wool
stores, sugar mills, and so on ; and give a comprehensive
idea of the many industries in which machinery of this
kind can be employed for handling goods in large
quantities. Gibson, Battle will be pleased to send a copy
of this pamphlet to anyone interested in this class of
machinery.*


A
Learn by Post
A.
rrv
m in your spare time, and without
f with your regular vocation, subjects which will l
enable you to attain speedy promotion in your
present position, or qualify you for a more con
genial and better paid occupation.
STOTT
HOARE'S
BUSINESS
COLLEGE
attrition
•«-pe«‘
s-t
sVE
STOPS THE PAIN INSTANTLY.
The pain caused by a burn or scald will be instantly re-
lieved if Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment is applied. A
most useful household remedy to always have on hand.
Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation,
Special Attention to
the Cuisine, , , ,
Lift and all Modern Conveniences,
' Tel, 321,
F, 0, Robinson, Proprietor
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
Coolibah : Discoursing on the dietarv
vagaries of the goburra (B. 17/12/’08), “ Cict ” says
Dven carrion much defunct, he absorbs in times
of famine. My own observations show that the
self-respecting goburra loathes carrion. In this
Bundaberg district (Q.) carrion in the shape of
dead stock, in all stages of putrefaction, filled the
waterholes in 1902; it ornamented the ridges
raised its perfume to Heaven, and, in fact, nearly
split the welkin. Yet the goburra gave up the
ghost in thousands from sheer starvation while
crows and other carrion-feeders waxed fat and
numerous. One morning about midway through
the drought, I found four goburras lying
dead under a tree near the house, and
on making a ‘post-mortem examination of
their emaciated corpses, I was quite satisfied
as to the cause of death. At the end of
the period mentioned Jack was almost extinct
here ; the only survivors were a few lean and joy-
less specimens of what had previously been a
numerous tribe. Even eight years of prosperity
and a pretty constant birthrate have not sufficed
to make Jack any way plentiful.
r^'^ie who travels the country in some
itinerant line of business with a waggon and a
valuable outfit needs to be especially careful about
the mates he picks up on the road. The profes-
sional wanderer—hawker, travelling saddler and
tne like—is generally a sociable person, and im-
pecunious pedestrians chum in with him. Some-
'pkl6B i e i Str l l k e ® t;h e . wrong kind of pedestrian.
I hen the body of Smith is found in a river with
signs of violence and evidence of long immersion.
Xhe slow processes of the Law get to work. It is
discovered that Smith and his waggon left Wool-
ale s station.on the 10th. Someone is found at
long last who met Smith on or about the 16th
camped with a person whom he thinks he heard
addiessed as Brown. On the 20tli the waggon
passed Boggs’ pub driven by a man who
looked like Brown, though he called himself
Mcir’herson ; but there was no Smith. The Law
narks forward and finds the waggon in the pos-
session of Jobson, and Jobson dimly remembers
ne plausible tale that was told when he bought it
hrom a person who said he was O’Robinson.
Xhen part of the Law harks back and buries
bniith, and the rest of it scoots forward on the
track of Brown with the many aliases. Sometimes
there are definite results : sometimes there are
none. In the latest N.S. W. case, the Law thinks
it has struck some results. But there is room for
much interesting speculation as to the number of
cases in which the body of Smith isn’t found. He
is discovered fairly often, but how often does he
Just drop out of notice for good and all ?
* » * *
Yarrum ” : Met a queer combination,
t’other day, between Nowra and Berry, on the
N.S. W. South Coast. It was a family travelling
to the northern rivers, where it had a milking
engagement. “Father” (who borrowed some
tobacco) was 65 and looked 80. He had owned a
sheep-farm in Maoriland, and had “gone broke.”
latterly, he had had a bit of land near Wagonga,
and had “ gone broke ” some more. The cart was
covered with an awning of chaffbags and bearskins,
and one of the shafts had gone broke, the same as
the old man, and had been replaced with a sapling
that he “ hadn’t bothered to take the bark oft of.”
I here were five youngsters, two of whom were
tramping. “ Mother ”—a nuggety little woman
ot about 40—carried “baby” in her arms. A parrot
shrieked from a cage aloft, and an ancient rooster
and his half-a-dozen disreputable-looking wives
hung and swung in a coop below the cart. The horse
had one eye and the stringhalt, but one of the
kiddies informed me that he was “ hard to beat on
the I told the old fellow I liked his grit.
He said, That’s nothin' I I’m goin’ to make a
leastwa y s - I’m goin’ to leave some-
thin for mother and the children. They tell me
are goin ’ ahead 011 the Richmond.” After
they had moved on, my conscience hit me, and I
chased the caravan to throw what was left of my
plug of tobacco at it for good luck.
THE WILLING HORSE.
DOMAIN DANIEL : “I’ve tried to get a good job,
Bill; but all the good jobs are taken.”
WILLIAM: “And what do you call a good job?”
DOMAIN DANIEL : “ Oh, any kind of a job that’s
taken.”
“Harry Stockdale ” re the recently-dis-
cussed baobab tree of Nor’-West Australia
This tree is deciduous, shedding its leaves annually
until its boughs are quite bare. I don’t think there are
any baobabs in the Northern Territory east of the Victoria
River. They abound in Kimberley (N.-W. Aus.), and
sometimes measure 70ft. in circumference.
The fruit is palatable and is encased in a hard, brittle
brown or dark chocolate-colored shell—not, as “ Moora-
binda ” describes, a solid white mass. Inside the shell is
a creamy-colored pulp, which, as it dries, falls into sec-
tions like the orange. Inside this pulp are little brown
seeds, which we used to roast, then powder, and make
into an excellent substitute for coffee. The inside pulp I
used to let simmer for about half-an-hour, adding plenty
of white sugar as it is rather acid. To my palate, it is
the most delicious fruit I have ever eaten.
Taking it all round, the baobab may yet be found to be
the most valuable tree as a food and medicine producer
in the whole of this continent.
The bark is powerfully febrifugal and yields a very
strong, tough fibre ; but the wood is soft and spongy,
and readily attacked by fungi. I have seen the trunks of
moderate-sized baobabs hollowed out and used as canoes
in Cambridge Gulf, but they are not a success. They do
not last long and soon become water-logged.
The inside of this tree might more correctly be termed
pith than wood, and is at all times of the year very wet.
I noticed that when I had a baobab tree cut for the pur-
pose of marking the camp, our horses used to chew the
chips that flew'out in forming the letters, so in all pro-
bability it is a good stock fodder tree as well as a valuable
food producer for man. The natives are very fond of the
fruit, and consume it in large quantities.
The tree is also a native of tropical West Africa, where
the pounded leaves are mixed with the daily food of the
tribes. They are used also as a remedy for diarrhea,
fevers, and diseases of certain organs.
The fruit of the baobab is very like a cocoanut, the
shell being nearly the same color but not so hard. It is
evidently the true Australian bread-fruit, or bread-nut.
I have often had to shift camp from under these trees
when in full blossom, the honey-like aroma being so
overpowering.
The bottle tree of the Northern Territory and Queens-
land does not produce fruit like the baobab, though the
trees themselves are much alike to look at.
CHEEK.
THE PEST: “ Carry yer caddy, sir?
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” on geebungs :
I have often wondered where the biggest geebungs
grew, or were reared, or lived. Most folk think that the
further out back the bigger the geebung ; but by far the
largest and greenest variety is to be found along the
Hawkesbury (N.S. W.). Their work—fencing, ploughing
etc.—is usually up to the mark; but their opinions on
matters outside of their own little centres are deeps of
dense ignorance, unmatched by anything Outback
Struck a party of fencers, the other day; there were
father (the oracle, of course) and three strapping sons.
We got yarning about the crops and the weather. Sud-
denly Tom said :
“ Jer know what?”
“ No,” answered the other three.
“Ginger Bowerman reckons it’s night in Hingland
when it’s day here. I don’t berleeve vim. Can’t be. It’s
imposserble—the sun always shines at ther same time
Yer nnghter swell say that our lamp is alight and out at
ther same time. I reckon Ginger’s a liar.”
Oick threw a clod at a blue wren, and observed with an
air of confidence—
“ Well, I’d soon find dout, if I wanted ta.”
“How, my son?" asked the father.
How ? said Dick ; “why blanky well go there and
find out. I’d jolly soon know that way, wouldn’t I, dad ?
Say I sailed for Hingland in ther morn-ning, wouldn’t I
know if it oughter be day or night, when I got there ?”
The father smiled wisely.
“ Do you know how far it is to Hingland, my son ?”
“No, dad, how the’ll do I know, when I ain’t never bin
there?”
“ VYeII > my son, I’ll tell yer how far it is. Do you see
that there jar what came from Hingland ?
When do I git that filled with beer and all th’
boys come up and see me?”
“ When mother cooks the Christmas pudden ”
said Dick.
“ What month is this, my son ?”
“ October o’ course, dad.”
“ How do yer know it’s October, my son ?”
Because th’ show’s this week, and our show
is always in October.”
“Very good, my son. Well, if you was to
start for Hingland ter-morrer, and go straight
on, you wouldn’t git there before mother
cooked the pudden! ”
Dick stood up, startled.
“No?” he said. “Hogan’s bloomin’ ghost!
Isitthatfar? Well, I wouldn’t go there for
the all of Hingland—no, not for the blanky all
of it, if it takes that long—-and day here and
night there when you do git there. Not me.
It’s no good ter me.”
Harry grinned knowingly, and said :
“ By cripes, I’d go for half of all, wouldn’t
you, dad ?”
“No blighted fear,” said the father; “you wouldn’t
ketch me leavin’ th’ good ’Awkesburrer unless I got
about fifty thousand colored quids, and I’d have tu be let
come back as quick as I could ! ”
I didn’t tell the geebungs that I have been saving up
since 1897 for a trip to the Cold Land. They’d have reck-
oned I was barmy. Perhaps I am. Quien sabe 1
* * • *
“Snake’s” yarn: Had, until recently, a
piece of carved niulga in my possession, which
was, X fancy, the entry card to an aboriginal
Yellow Pup Lodge or so> .ething. The nig from
whom I got it must have been expelled from the
order; withal some of its prejudices lingered.
When he sold the passport to me for “ two feller
chillin ’’ he stipulated “nothing show him gin,”
intimating that “ if I showed him gin,” the lady’s
demise would swiftly follow. I gave the required
promise, and he brouy’.J the fragment of timber
to. me one evening at sundown, again asserting
with passionate emphasis, that “gin would
tumble down if you show him.” .After the renegade
had gone I examined the stick. It was ordinary
mulga, about 18 inches long, four inches wide, and
half an inch thick. There were five snakes carved
on one side. I failed to trace any lethal pro-
perties about it. The death warrant lay in my
camp for months. One day—the gins being
troublesome—l produced it, and, to my surprise,
the fractious females disappeared like the morning
dew, one of them shedding her garments in her
haste to escape. My mate then tried its qualities
on an adjacent camp of nigs. The gins were im-
mediately ordered out of the danger zone by the
head savage. Later he waited on me with a
couple of friends, and asked leave to examine the
stick. They were burningly eager to know
where X catch him,” and after a lot of “wongi”
they departed. Two nights passed, and then the
camp was broken into and the stick stolen.
Mr. A Anglin, Eureka Street, Ballarat,
Vic., writes: “Chamberlains Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Kennedy is a tip-top remedy for
cramps in the stomach, diarrhoea and dysentery.
I have used it and can therefore attest to its
merits. I never fail to praise Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy whenever an
opportunity presents itself.*
Some few miles out of Sugaropolis stands
all that remains of Alexandra Mill, the first sugar
mill in the Mackay (Q.) district. It is a long, low
shed that no longer contains crushing machinery,
but is used as a garage for cane-drays. In this old
shed, years ago, was distilled the famous Alex-
andra rum, which, with that made at Pleystowe,
constituted “ the real Mackay,” a rum that had a
reputation as a wrestler and a thrower of men,
and one that produced a glow that you could feei
right down to your hoofs. But both distilleries
were closed down long ago, and the manufacture
of ardent spirits was discontinued—knocked out
presumably, by the foreign product. The old’
hands state that a good deal of private distillation
of rum for home consumption was carried on round
about, and the product paid no Excise. The still
was crude, but effective enough—a billy-can with
a cloth under the lid to catch the steam from the
boiling molasses, the cloth being wrung out every
now and again. And in the same room frequently
sat the Excise officer, yarning to the owner, and
drinking the rum, never dreaming that the inno-
cent-looking billy-can was the illicit still that it
wa,s his business ,to hunt up and suppress. Both
private and public stills have disappeared, and all
rum is now obtained at the frequent pub.
THE SWAGGERMOTE.
The rail and the coach between them are
wiping weary days off the great distances of Aus-
tralia. It is now possible to get from Townsville
right across Queensland into the Northern Terri-
tory in less than a week. Leaving Townsville on
Monday morning, the train gets out to Cloncurry
(500 miles) in a couple of days, and from Clon-
eurry there is a regular coach out to Camooweal
on the border. At least if it isn’t a coach it is a
buckboard. And from Camooweal the tourist
can get by coach to Boorooloola, right away upon
the McArthur River—which is practically the
place where water Communication around from
Tort Darwin hitches on to land communication
from Queensland. But they don’t provide feather-
beds on that Boorooloola track, and nowadays
it s only a monthly mail; and if it’s a week late
you are not expected to growl. In fact, you are
not expected to growl if you don’t get there at all
—like the necessary papers for the Northern
territory election, to fill Vabe Solomon’s seat
other week. The mail couldn’t get through,
and there wasn’t a police trooper available for the
job, and nobody else would take it on; so the
papers just had to stay at Camooweal, and the
poll at Boorooloola had to slide.
SNOWY RIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The proud hills’ peerless daughter,
A-singing as she goes
The natal songs they taught her,
Old Kosciusko knows.
She bears the Great Salt Water
His message from the snows.
Where, piled in high disorder,
Monaro’s mountains rise,
She puts her house in order
And says her first good-byes ;
Then, timid, to the Border
She turns expectant eyes.
By lichen-covered granite,
And boulders, waterworn
In ages when the Planet
By primal storms was torn,
When all the winds that fan it
In hurricanes were born ;
Through gullies dark where, whitely,
The bones of lost men lie,
And evil voices nightly
Bike tortured spirits cry,
This pilgrim River, lightly,
Slips, hushed and silent, by.
But when, anon, the plover
To haunts more open hies,
And to his loyal lover
The painted parrot flies—
An opal flashing over
Beep, turquoise picture-skies—
Along the sedgy reaches,
By myrtles overhung,
Where far the flood-made beaches
Their pebbled freight have flung,
To all the Bush she teaches
The songs Monaro’s sung.
She takes, for her adorning,
All glories that she needs—
Tlie jewels of the Morning
To deck her water meads ;
The stars of Night suborning
To diamond her reeds.
Unwed by any Doria
Of rough Australian drought,
She sings her pagan Gloria ;
And, sweeping gaily South,
She stoops to kiss Victoria
Upon a waiting mouth.
Wild Gippsland’s forest altars,
Titanic, sombre, grand,
Re-echo to her psalters,
Poured out o’er rock and sand ;
And no rude range that falters
The tribute of his hand.
Aye, creek and spring and fountain
Unto her leap and roll;
Each vassal hill or mountain
Pours down its liquid soul,
To swell the grand amount in
Her widely gathered toll.
And, so with stories laden
Of Bushland, Day and Night,
She comes, a royal maiden
Hellenic, in delight,
To find her long-sought Aidenn
Below the Mario light.
From Buchan’s white cliffs sweeping
She treads her homeward way ;
By lone selections sleeping
In stillness, far away ;
By Orbost farm lands, keeping
Star-vigil for the day.
She hears afar the calling
Of her high lord the Sea;
She hears the strong surge falling,
World-old, unceasingly,
And all the Voice enthralling
Of Love and Mystery.
Then, with the quick, glad sobbing
Of some long-willing Bride—
Her Sea-Love rudely robbing
The last white robe of pride—
She throw's her warm heart, throbbing,
On his triumphant tide.
n.s.w.
E. J. BRADY.


FOR. EVERY EMERGENCY—
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A PURE SPIRIT.
The Jo£iE Hand
Keep an eye out for the coming (February)
Lone Hand. Of the last two issues copies were
unobtainable within a few days of publication.
Guard against disappointment by ordering from
your newsagent now.
“The Race Riots,” “The Flaming Elections”
—those are the titles of the chapters in “The
Commonwealth Crisis ” for February. Kirmess
has brought his powerful story to the stage at
which Australia is asked to give her reply to
ruined credit, invaded territory, withdrawn naval
protection. No more powerful sfory than this
“Commonwealth Crisis” has been published in
Australia.
Take care now that you don’t miss The Lone
Hand for February.
Bound volumes for the last half-year are nowon
sale, price Bs.; or post free 9s. 3d.
The f»£IE ff ANB
214 George Street, Sydney*
4/- in the £ Discount
We are taking off all Table Requisites.
The slump in Metals has enabled us to make special
arrangements with the greatest and best manu-
facturers of England to sell their Electro-Silver
products at 20 per cent, discount off their English
Wholesale Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions on all
our Electro-Silver Stock.
BUY WHILE SILVER IS LOW.
Best Electroplate, 37/6; less 20%, 30/
In all sizes and designs.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
* According- to the belief of the Australian aborigines,
felicity after death depends upon proper burial. A man
dying in battle, or rotting in the field, becomes an evil
spirit.
THE TWO WASHINGTONS.
WASHINGTON SRNIOR: “ You scamp! To think
that I couldn’t give you an axe without you
cutting down that beautiful gumtree. No
more Sandow developers for you. D’you
hear ?”
Writes a man from the Cow country :
The Australian girl who marries a dairyman (and the
practice is quite common) takes on a very hefty contract.
With a well-intentioned but fatally-mistaken notion of
“ helping the farm along,” she starts right away to milk,
side by side with her husband. She has no servant to do
the housework ; so this is what she is attempting:—
(1) To do a man’s work on the farm.
(2) To do a woman’s work in the house.
(3) To bear a baby.
For the average woman the last two are any amount of
responsibility. To try and tack the first on to it is mur-
derously unfair both to the mother and to the baby. After
about three hours’ hard labor in the cow-yard, the woman
faces a solid day’s housework. As a rule, she does her
own baking, and, of course, her own washing. Then, at
5 o’clock, just when she is done, in both senses of the
word, comes another two and a half or three hours in the
muddy cow-yard. It is no wonder then that a majority of
the young farmers’ wives are old before they are young.
It is pleasing to hear that there is a steadily-growing pre-
judice amongst the better class of young dairymen
against allowing their wives in the cow-yard at all, save
on emergency. Still, a few weeks ago, a girl at Kyogle
was married one day, and the next day went out with her
husband to milk a herd of 72 cows.
REASSURING.
TIMID OLD LADY: “ Is it really very deep here!"
BOATMAN: “ Lor bless yer ’eart, no, mum—not more’n 12 feet. Why, at low tide, it's that
shatter yer can see the corpses lyin’ on the bottom.”
“ Gilrooney ” : Life isn’t all dark shadows
and sour grapes and bad tobacco. Indeed it is
overflowing with happy and boisterous events.
Recently at Cobar (N.S.W.) I kindly in-
vited myself one hot Sunday afternoon to a
Chinese Feast of the Dead, held in the local
cemetery. It was a most enjoyable
function. A score of Chinese of various
degrees of social standing and dislo-
cated English drove out in vege-
table carts and other conveyances
to the scene of festivities and dry
bones. They brought a large pig,
baked whole, and a queer assort-
ment of cakes, fruit, lollies, cigar-
, ettes and gin. After spreading
the murdered pig and the rest of
the feast on the ground in the
shade of a convenient tree, and
burning many tapers at the foot of
the grave (or it may have been the
head, for the Chinese generally do
things backwards, and so, likely
enough, they are dead backwards),
each mourner knelt on a bag and
made strange moans and incanta-
tions. Then one of them, who
seemed to be a sort of local Li
Hung Chang, stabbed the dead
Berkshire several times with a
large knife and cut off its right
ear and nostril; and everybody
remained fearfully silent, for now
the departed spirits had returned
and were gorging themselves at the
pork feast. Next Li Hung Chang
gave a signal which meant that the
dead Celestials had fed sufficiently,
after which the company ate the
pig and the sundries. Then the
other night, at Broken Hill
(N.S.W.), I extended an invitation
to myself to join the Afghan camel-
drivers in their Christmas celebra-
tions. There are two big camps on
the outskirts of the Silver City, and
Christmas veered to and fro be-
tween these places for several
nights. An Afghan juggler
performed some ghostly tricks, the whence
and the whither of which no white man could
quite understand ; and the rest of the brown men
danced and capered and sang like infuriated
demons, and Christmas raged like a cracked mar-
riage bell. As I have also requested the pleasure
of my own company at an aborigines’ corroboree,
I feel that there remains but little more in life for
me to see, and I am now quite prepared to
depart in peace.
“L’ Fou”: Be that overworked idiom,
“the finest in the Southern Hemisphere”; there
is a similar tag running loose in the advertisement
columns of the great dailies that ought to be im-
pounded, viz. : “Made expressly to suit the Aus-
tralian climate.” The phrase is tacked on to
anything from pianos to patent medicines. It is,
I believe, of purely post-tariff growth (Previous
to that anything suited the Australian and his
climate so long as it was imported.) But consider
the immensity of the climate of Australia!
Why, look at the difference of climate a single
town has. Take Dalgety, for instance. It is,
according to the N.S.W. dailies, a cold, bleak,
freezing, blizzard-swept, flooded waste, where
Willy Kelly would drop dead of cold; also
it is a dry, parched, burning, waterless, barren
desert, where B. Smith would melt and
Bill Wilks be unable to get liquid for
his cold tea. (This was when the Australian
Parliament was considering it as the Federal
site, and it was considered necessary, in the
interests of Sydney, to show that it was a hopeless
spot for sane site-hunters.) Also (according to
the same papers) Dalgety has a delicious, warm,
balmy atmosphere, and is cool, healthy, bracing,
fertile and well-watered, so that to take a 900-
mile area of it would amount to robbing Ma of
her most priceless slab of territory. (This was
when the Australian Parliament chose Dalgety,
and it was necessary—again in the interests of
Sydney—to show that it should be dropped in
favor of a, locality nearer to the place the im-
porters inhabit.) Assuming that every few miles
of Australia has a range of climate as wide, it
needs to be a' fairly versatile pot of pills or other
goods that is “ prepared especially” to meet its
weather conditions. Why not go the whole
animal and pack a line to suit the climate of the
earth ?
* * * *
“Chip”: “Talking of bullocks,” said
Jim, “reminds me of an old bullock that the
cook used to pitch to when all hands was out
working. It was a long way to the water, and
the cook he used to let the old bullock drink out
of the bucket when the cove was cornin’ with a
fresh load of water. This old bullock had terrible
curly horns, an’ one day when the cook was late
cornin’ back, the old bullock smells the damper
burnin’, so ’e walks up, turns his head, lifts the
lid off the camp-oven with his horn, puts it down,
and turns over the damper. He’d the curliest
horns y’ ever seen. He puts on the lid again, an’
after browsin’ round a bit, he comes back, lifts off
the lid, taps the damper with his hoof, and
reckons by the sound it was done enough ; so he
hooks a horn into it, and stands it on edge to cool.”
“Did he scrape the black off?” asked a scoffer
who was listening. “ No,” said Jim, “he didn’t
scrape no black off.” And then the assistant-
surveyor remembered another bullock incident
where Surveyor O’Briggs had found the unfor-
tunate beast with a leg jammed under a root on the
steep side of a creek. The root was cut away and
the bullock released. A few days after, O’Briggs
left his instrument standing while all hands
looked for a certain peg. Much time was spent,
but no peg found, and the party sat down for
lunch. Looking up, O’Briggssaw, to his horror, that
the rescued bullock had put his head under the
transit instrument and was walking away with it
balanced on his horns. He was reckoning up the
price of anew instrument, when he saw the bul-
lock stop, and gently deposit the transit on its
legs on the ground. He rushed over to inspect
damages, and not only found the machine unin-
jured, but exactly over the peg he had spent half
a day looking for.
THE SPIRIT OF THE DESERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A ghostly grey land, habited by shapes
Unholily uncouth, with weird wild cries
Remembrant of the morning of the world.
Most horrid clad, with pale, gaunt eucalypt
Standing like stricken sentinels ; their arms,
Giant and poulpe-like, clutch the atmosphere
With thin and ragged grimness, like to souls
Smitten to alabaster ’mid their sins.
Their scanty foliage wantoning with the wind
In solemn monotone, like to the sighs
Of desolate spirits lost, and agonised,
Moaning their adamantine misery.
Frightful in sombre solitude, it stands
A ghostly symbol of Eternity.
The moon in nightly sovereignty begets
Weird shadows, trembling in their horridness.
Narcissus-like, her light reflects itself
In the dull waters of a reed-fringed swamp
Sluggish and sleeping, mantled with a scum
Of murd’rous crimes enacted in its depths :
Like to the froth of death that flecks a face
Strangled in hot blood, whiles the joy’s i’ the heart.
Across the frozen glory of her glow
Huge night-birds spectral flap, and leathern bats
Wing noiseless flight, anon to disappear
Into th’ abyssmal depths of dunnest shade.
Strange creatures ! —and, most fitly, denizens
Of strangest land that e’er bred mystery
Here, of a night of calm, the natives say
A cry that chills the very blood o’ th’ heart
Is ofttimes heard ; and whisper frightedly
Of most unearthly shape, with countenance
Supremely horrible, and scaly serpent length
Resting amidst the swampy noisomeness ;
Emitting wails and shrieks, interpreted
To mean a death ; at which repulsive sound
They tremble, and most earnest beg a grave
That will permit the soul’s felicity.*
Then, heark’ning to the w’onder, whisper low
Of ghosts and demons in the darksome shades,
Where, at their vagrant home, they nightly hold
Portentous revel and corroboree.
Along the creek, bearded with virulent growth
Of weeds and nettles, over which the fern
Waves em’rald fairv-work, the mopoke’s chant
Resounds monotonous ; and the kingfisher
Makes echo with his weird hilarity.
The bark of fox, scenting a morning meal;
The snarling answer of the tree opossums ;
The buzz of beetle, and the solemn croak
Of rana habiting its natal slime ;
Incongruous forms, most disproportionate
In length and shape of limb, with pouched young
Peering upon the w'orldin wonderment —
All so unreal, it seemeth as a dream
Of genius painting its despondency.
A land of sad storm-thoughts ; of images
O’ th’ soul-tempest; pictures so passionate ;
Delineating man’s desire to die,
And learn the lesson of Eternity.
A land of grim, grey language, beautiful
To those aweary of the world ; of life
But yet half life, as tho’, forsooth, creation
Had wantoned, and had parodied her powers,
Mayhap to teach a lesson yet untaught.
Food to the soul, its horrid grandeur stares
Ghastly and desolate adown the years
From dim Creation’s dawning ; as tho’ God
Had placed on it the brand of punishment—
And left it living for redemption.
N.s.w.
WILLIAM H. ELSUM.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivill he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
K.C. : No, it would take more than “changing
the stops,” etc., to make that publishable F. Holzer-
land : Can’t keep track of purely local matters, and don’t
want to, either F. Max: A mere derangement of
words.. ..Edward S. : As a cakewalker, sport, and
pugilist, we are prepared to accept you ; as a poet, you
are horrible. You are hereby counselled to lead your
Pegasus to the nearest vacant allotment, and there feed
it with prussic acid till it expires E.O. : There are a
number of good lines in “Invitation.” The other lines
are what we don’t like... .J.F. : The man who does the
Answers to Correspondents is 6ft. 4in. high, a superb two-
footed fighter, a jiu-jitsu expert, and a dead shot with a
lump of pig-iron which he keeps on his desk in front of
him. Do not call on him... .Aster Nirvanse :If we pub-
lish any more of the wrongs of that “ boy-reporter (aged
17) ’’acquaintance of yours, who is “general everything
on a trade paper," we will be getting him identified and
sacked....A.S.K.: You have no sense of rhythm, and
the disability handicaps your poetry to death
Billie: “Fragrance” and “ My Little Girl ” are the sort
of verses that appeal immensely to the lady that inspired
them, but don’t “ go ” with the general public worth a
tinker’s blessing. ...The Wasp : The poem, “ Yatchting on
the Derwent, Tasmania,” just misses corres. col. mark.
We are sorry, as we do a bit of “yatchting” ourselves
at times ...A.S. : "Street Exchange” foolish ; “Impos-
sible ” damphooiish D.E.J.: Couldn’t tell now whether
the answer to “ Doris J.” was directed at you or n0t....
Idea Australian: Already handled on similar lines....
Message Stick : Sorry, but the notion doesn’t impress us
at all.... Vendetta : Too stiff.... Herbert E. R.: “ Stalkers”
well written, but too much like a riddle for this sort of
weather J.H. : “Little Will” was led to the stake at
11.30 a.m. (28/12/’08), and there incinerated amid the
acclamations of the staff... Outcast: “The Outcast”
was cast out and hasn’t returned Hugh Kalyptus:
Lyric beginning :
The night was a sneezer
When me and Louisa
Went down to a hop at the old dancing club
is too intimate, ungrammatical, etc. Moreover, you
shouldn’t annex a well-known pen-name in that off-hand
fashion Rei Panes: Only' moderate, which is one
thing, and a trifle belated, which is another thing
O. : Your remarks are interesting in a way, but we
don’t want to give Johnson cause to come along and butt
the office down with his head D. : Thanks for photo.
Hardly of sufficient interest for reproduction C.D. :
“A Dream ” is far, far too warm for this tropical weather..
Greenstone : Verses are pretty rhymes without any depth
in them. Yarn is poor stuff.... Foseo: Returned Con
Drew : Musically versified, but the theme is very hack-
neyed....W. Young: Not enough in it for print....
Edgar S. L.: Has a good swing in it, but is not very in-
telligible.... Ben J. : Sound sense, but clumsy versifica-
tion ... .G.C.L.: More enthusiasm than skill Carabine :
A feeble production Juicy Lemon: You don’t make
your point clear enough Jeach: Good idea, but not
well enough treated The Fride Worm : A stirring ode.
It heartened our weekly MSS. conflagration considerably.
....Mirmino: “The First Train” collided with its own
metre, ran off the rails in a wrecked state, and was
destroyed in a great fire The Wasp: Cut out your
corres. col. efforts, and forward them to “ Accountant,”
this office, and payment Will follow Hazel: Thb
Bulletin noted (c/., 24/12/’08), that Johnson was “a
better boxer than Burns.” There were doubts (1) about
Johnson’s strength and stamina, (2) about his gameness.
He has dispelled all doubts regarding his strength. The
other qualities weren’t tested. In tipping Burns to win
this paper was in good company—such capable judges as
Jim Jeffries, ex-champion and ringside acquaintance of
both boxers, and Marvin Hart, who has fought them
both, held that Burns should beat the black.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
C.E.M.: If you look carefully you will see some water-
marks on that “ Undertaking” joke. They are the stains
of the Flood Wog-Wog : Stamp-licking joke isn’t a
real joke, and the picture is amazingly out of drawing
S.W. : Utterly useless to send pictures like yours. They
haven’t a redeeming feature P.G.: We haven’t space
enough to enumerate all the faults of that drawing, and
it is hardly worth while to mention 50 or 60 of them, and
yet leave the great bulk of them unspecified.


‘ HtxT f>XV) in'tffe. “
"iTt* st\teJ loss °f ot ie Or'fWo
liv»v»i>s from Country trains
IS Quile Common
s°s r
o*j
A HV<* .
yver*
"TV»T S«d> A Vj+a'l
8* I hv* - b»f »«'£•'
mmd, I CA« ,h
*ll bc+kr !
Co*fi<4e»ic« fVty :
' I tell you [s yowr- s+as+ron !
I vjr **> **'* ,oU * t, ~\
*l|H> Ton, Oe»»T |or & .1
• Premiers <^f c<rfcr,ce
~W~ VlooornP
oe+s * V7C mfc trouble I
!>■*+)
" ftje W« C°">e
b&*K f«m % Y^S*,
bat- ’
I • & wr'i*)£ ,r ’2-
T>
* {A^v
. . I
'[i>rv,.B'.— Cerfcvwly .
=, y\CovxJfcKe ,r >cg 1?y xH
mtAns . Cx* yp* *.
iKVow X •
'lomßc.n'T* Ibcrc <s *to £fs'Jfet'i>W('cK
|>hd. <> c V>d*l ! !
he yfacfl y >
X W2kS ,r > ‘i'S^SS
X\ d '
<>Vie would do
hrjg. how •
Tire to't'ol cSirtcfi ‘— 1$ vJ^f - o ■
Ivz been |or ;
Show tmrrybcr' of
In lot,a«n flje Vid’CsHsfeJ Ur
ye&i, . 5 1
&r'»t: I do now, you've lcft'"»ne
HaMly -lo J>2**h j "
FreeTf Hcrej ye«v bclwf
Casb't' you oflfe*, ?*'
•*— id t*jMch rasev
j'jd of' you [
A^ a «"s
°]f U
€>l<i On
by Sj<U
sfd
VICTORIA GENERALLY, INCLUDING T. BENT.


COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENT LIBRARY.
MOSTLY IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
iPiOUS PQST-PUOIUSTIC PIFFLE.—From the Sydney D.T.
aWe do not want New South Wales made an amphitheatre for the fistic:
gladiators of the world, as this is a kind of non-productive
Whether black or white, the country is better without. The fof
principals In Saturday’s fight received no less than £7OOO bet
F delighting the patrons of this
kind of entertainment with
mutual assault and battery,
under the eyes of the Law,
is quite sufficient to account
for such a boom.”
Not quite. The £7OOO was
what the manager could
afford to part up after pay-
ing expenses. A . goodly
share of the proceeds of this
“ man-mauling exhibition ”
found its way into the cof-
fers of the dally press ( Syd.
D.T. included) for advertis-
ing and booming this « bru-/
tailsing spectacle.” (
Manager o" •Ureal Daily ” (to account-
ant) • “How much did we make out
of our account of that brutal and
shockingly unchristian proceeding at
,the Stadium, Hr. Cashbook?
Naturally Cardinal Moran had to put in his oar.
Says he > “ The worst feature of all is that money
is just now playing such an important part in all
our outdoor amusements.”
Aerostatics is also one of Mr. Johnson's hobbies.
An enterprising manager suggested that he challenge
Burns for a flying match. “ No,” said Mr, Johnson,
smiling sweetly with his celebrated gold-filled teeth,
“ I've made dat Canuck soar enough already.”
It is said that Jack Johnson takes
great interest in archteology. (Scene:
A Museum.) Mr. Johnson :•* My golly,
dun undersized niggers must have had
a beautiful reach ! ”
Of course money plays no part in indoor amuse-
ments—church bazaars, etc.
A friend at The Bulletin's elbow
suggests that glove fights should be
conducted on a top-hat basis, the knocking-off of
the hat of one of the contestants to constitute a
round. Somehow it doesn’t seem to work out well
on paper.
A VIC. ELEC I ION ITEM.
Electors are requested not to poke
straws or borqk at the Premier. He
is wild enough already.
0 The little girl with the remarkable tald has
transpired again. A servant maid at Armidale
* was found with her hands and neck tied to a
nice, cool water-tap. She said that a strange man tied her up.
and then went away. Owing to his interference she had been
unable to tackle the family wash.


Denfifr
There was a young- lady named Kate,
Who one day remarked to her mate,
“Take some of these Pills,
They’re a cure for all ills,
Laxo-Tonic’s the name, and they're great."
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, and Is. 6d.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
One of the victims of the sadden Victorian
election is Edgar Wilkins, of Collingwood. He
has been snoozing quietly in liis comfortable seat
for lb years, and must find it hard to have his
slumbers so rudely disturbed. A silent, stolid
member was Wilkins. His contributions to the
debates were mostly printed in brackets (“Laugh-
ter ) and (“Hear, hear”). The. cause of his
downfall is an unaccountable adhesion to Bent.
Last year he had a majority of 405. This year he
is 140 to the bad, and Miartin Hannah reigns in
his stead.
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:—
At Shanghai (Chow-land), at the age of 78, an old Aus-
tralian identity, Mrs. E. S. Patton, is teaching* music and
dancing, and writing for the press. This active old ladv
is the daughter of Mr. A. T. Holroyd of Sydney, barrister
member of sundry very early N.S.W. Legislatures
Minister for Works in the first Martin Ministry (1863-65)
Acting-Justice of the Supreme Court, and Master in’
Equity. The lady’s first husband was a Mr Terry
manager of the A.S.N. Co. in 1855. He died a couple 'of
years after his marriage. Terry was related to the Terry
theatrical family, through which he was acquainted with
L. V. Brooke. The latter offered the widow an engao-e-
-ment to fill a stage vacancy occasioned by the deatlTof
Ellen Mortyn. That offer Mrs. Terry accepted. She
married Mr. Patton and retired from the sta«-e. When
she again became a widow, Mrs. Patton and her daughter
wem, to Japan, where they taught music and dancing.
The daughter died early and Mrs. Patton has been alone
ever since. Seven years ago she removed to Shanghai, as
being a larger field for her exertions.
Robert Mar, who claimed the Australian
championship of the furious game of draughts,
i 1 l, dl ?U?- the Pi amantina (Q-)HosDital, in the
land of Whips o Time. It is 17 vears since he
won the championship from player Warnock, and
Heaven only knows what dreadful combats may
break out now that he has gone and the title is
anyone s. At one time Mar was Government
Analyst in Queensland.
For a C.M.G., Josiah Booth by, a veteran
civil servant, has just put up a record in S. Aus •
the final returns for the Northern Territory
election show that he polled just three votes.
t k'* ree votes aren’t many to gather in more than
500,000 square miles of country. C.M.G.’s stock
is very low in the market just now—it is almost
given away, in fact, with lib. of soap.
F. W. Paech, one of the “good fellows ”
of the S. Aus. Assembly, has come at last to the
end of a cruel and lingering illness. He got his
first taste of politics in Hahndorf, where he was
born. Hahndorf is a German village, which has,
or had, a custom of appointing three burghers to
consider matters before every general election, and
decide how the vote should go : thereupon, the
three burghers having duly reported, the com-
munity voted as practically one man. For years
Paech was one of the three. Then he moved to
another largely-German district, and went to Par-
liament himself.
SOME TIME ABOUT NEW YEAR.
THE DOG ON THE ROOF : “ This having a wet
night out is not the game it is cracked up
to he !”
The Northern Territory by-election the
other day sends another ex-kid-whacker into an
Australian Parliament. Crush, the top man in
the scramble, used to teach the young idea how to
shoot in England ; but lately lie’s been “running
the pub ” at Brock’s Creek, which is away in the
innards of the Territory. He will go with the
Labor party. Most people who have taught school
do somehow go with the Labor party.
Victoria s new Assembly hasn’t changed
its occupation to any great extent. It now holds
nine farmers, eight auctioneers, six merchants of
sorts, six graziers, five Gentlemen One, three
agents, three managers, two bootmakers, two gen-
tlemen, and a stone-cutter, laborer, brick layer,
secretary, turner, engineer, butcher, traveller, en-
gine-driver, cooper, publisher, tailor, compositor,
vigneron, surveyor, miner, watchmaker, valuer,
accountant, publican and journalist. Bent is the
valuer.
A North Coast (N.S. W.) pioneer, Edmund
Ross (82), has gone aloft. On his seventh voyage
in the P. and 0. Rippon between Southampton
and Alexandria he met Hargreaves, the Alpha of
Australia's gold fever, and Hargreaves persuaded
the mariner to sail to these parts. His first billet
was at Lismore, then a cattle station. During his
trip up the coast he met Atherton, who pioneered
that superb belt of country back of Cairns (N.Q.).
Afterwards Ross dug into the. cedar trade, then a
rollicking business which smelt of rum and big
cheques. Afterwards he gathered in many acres
of town land at Ballina, and did much business
with those who went down to the sea in ships.
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant
Apropos Alexander Berry and his Shoalhaven lands (B.
31/12/’08). This writer has amongst his curios a number
of original Treasury receipts, which show that Alexander
Berry did not get all his Shoalhaven land as cheaply as
some people think. Here is one dated June 10, 1840,
under ;the hand of “Francis L. S. Merewether, for the
Acting-Colonial Treasurer,"for £265 15s. 3d., “being the
deposit of 10 per cent, on the undermentioned land sold
this day: Lot 2, St. Vincent, 604 acres at 88s. ; lot 9, St.
Vincent, 935 acres at 315.” The total purchase money
was £4106. Here is another dated August 11, 1841,
signed “C. D. Riddell, Colonial Treasurer”: Lot 24
Camden, 640 acres at 12s, £384 ; lot 26, Camden, 640 acres
at 125., £384.” The final receipts are signed “Stephen
Greenhill." Alexander Berry’s best record is the personal
service he rendered at great risk, when he rescued a
woman named Morley and her infant, a boy named
Davis, and a girl, Betsy Broughton, from the Maoris,
they being the survivors of the Boyd massacre
in April, 1810. Mr. Berry was then supercargo
of his own vessel, the City of Edinburgh, and was on a
voyage to Lima. The surviving four were greatly emaci-
ated. He took them on board and continued the voyage
Mrs. Morley died at Lima, “the result of her own bad
habits ” ; her infant was taken care of by Spaniards. The
lad Davis continued in the employ of the owners of the
Boyd in England, remained in the service for many years,
and was ultimately lost at sea. Bets}’ Broughton, whose
mother was one of the slaughtered in the Boyd, was taken
charge of by the wife of a Spanish gentleman, and eventu-
ally returned to Sydney. She was the daughter of an
early commissary, and became the wife of Mr. Throsby,
of Throsby Park, Moss Vale, now the country’ vice-regal
residence. Alexander Berry gave the ground occupied
by St. Thomas’s Cemetery ; and his wife, formerly’ Miss
Wollstonecraft, was the first to be buried there. The
vault is a large one, surmounted by 7 an Eg.vptian pyramid.
That particular Hume whose
name is spoken of in connection with
the Australian capital is only one of
several historical Humes. The re-
markable feature in the character of
nearly all the Humes was precocity.
At a time of life when most boys are
only plain boys the Humes almost
invariably played the game of men.
This Hamilton Hume dubbed himself
an explorer at the age of 16. He in-
terviewed people in what he called
position, and even approached the Go-
vernor, for authority and concessions
to enable him to reclaim waste Aus-
tralia. He actually set out as chief
of an important exploring tour, with
official sanction, and accompanied bv
blackboys and what not, before he was
of the age at which a man becomes
entitled to vote for Bruce Smith. He
no doubt did good work—among other
things he discovered Yass Plains—but
some of his methods would be regarded
as rather irresponsible nowadays.
The S. Aus. Government had
quite a basketful of jobs to give away
when it went into recess. Already it
has had to pick out two new Ministers ;
but it could have done that in its
sleep. There are three other appoint-
ments that will cause more bother—
Agent-General, Commissioner of Rail-
ways (S. Aus. manages with one
commissioner), and Commissioner of
Police. Commissioner of Railways
Pendleton, now 71 years old, draws
£l5OO a year ; but S. Australia isn’t
at all sure that the job is worth the
money, and it is quite likely that it
will do what it did in Pendleton’s own
case—promote a man from the service at
less than his predecessor was getting. As to the
chief bobby, L. G. Madley was head of the train-
ing college for teachers before he got the bobby
job.
Leading medical authorities reckon that
Thomas Bent perspired nearly a hogshead during
the Victorian electoral campaign. He was angry
all the time. Sometimes he was so angry that he
jumped up and down on the platform with a
handful of atmosphere in each fist, and gibbered.
On occasions like these Bent dripped and
streamed. Sometimes when the night was very
hot a cloud of steam rose from him, and then he
looked more like a washing day than a Premier.
And everywhere the crowds laughed at him,
jeered, bellowed and catcalled him, asked him
wild questions about land jobs, and generally
prodded the animal to make it roar.
“ Old Gallery Scribe ” writes:—
Francis Bathurst Suttor, President of N.S.W. Legisla-
tive Council, enters the seventies this year, and wears his
patriarchal dignity with much spryness. He was always
neat, natty, and polished, and cultivated youthful ideas.
His public career goes back nearly 40 years. He pulled
off a Parliamentary seat [in 1875. He began as a devoted
Parkes poodle. The veteran caressed the pleasing crea-
ture, and gave him office after office. But somehow the
poodle grew into quite a different kind of dog, and cut
an unexpected set of teeth, and bit Parkes. Then Parkes
roared, and followed the beastie from polling booth to
polling booth till he drove him out of Parliament. Suttor
made bis way back later, but his after-career was vio-
lently anti-Parkes. His father was in the old Legislative
Council, and his grandfather was Gardener Suttor, the
friend of Joseph Banks, Governor Bligh, Allan Cunning-
ham and Leichhardt.
“ Westerner ” writes :
Paddy Connolly, who has just won his fifth successive
Perth Cup, has a bigger collection of those expensive
baubles than any other racing man in the Commonwealth
The Melbourne Cup, the Sydney Cup, the Adelaide Birth-
day Cup, the Moonee Valley Cup, the Perth, Kalgoorlie
Boulder and Coolgardie Cups and dozens of inferior Cups
stand to his credit. “ The Lucky Man,” as he is called
was at one time a shearer and afterwards a pub-keeper in
Queensland. He was always a sport and fond of runnino-
a few horses at Waybaek meetings. He came West, still
in the pub business, and bought a few more horses
Finally he picked up Blue Spec, with which he made his
fortune. When “Old Bluey”won the Melbourne Cup
Connolly pouched £15,000, and has never looked back
since. Now he runs two pubs in Perth, has a station at
Yalgoo, property all over the State, and the biggest
string of horses in the West. A quiet, reserved man,
still young, he does not impress the casual observer ; but
no better judge of horses—and men (not to mention
women)—lives in Australia. Connolly has few interests
in life apart from his horses and his pubs, and is person-
ally almost unknown outside of sporting circles.
Two journalists were reported dead on
Monday, and both had been school-teachers.
Joseph O’Brien, who died in Sydney Hospital on
Sunday, was 67 years of age. He went to Maori-
land with the 14th Regiment, and saw a lot of very
active service in the very active old days. When
the war was over the 14th went to Melbourne,
and later on to England ; but Mr. O’Brien
remained behind and took service with the
N.S.W. Public Instruction Department, Bourke
being the scene of his principal toils. Later on
he reached Bendigo, and became secretary to the
local hospital and leader writer of the Bendigo
papers. Still later he moved on to Sydney, and
worked for The Bulletin, the Sydney Matt, and
other papers. The other deceased, E. J. Robin-
son, was for six years editor of the Singleton
(N.S.W.) Argus. He was a native of Singleton
and 60 years of age. For many years he edited
the Armidale Express, and was also at one time
on the staff of the Cumberland Argus. His
father was a pedagogue before him, but the
deceased didn’t take kindly to the profession, and
only dragged the local kid a very short way on
the road to Parnassus.
The late David Gaunson, of Melbourne,
was a brilliantly unsuccessful politician. He was
an able man within limitations, and used to think
himself a democrat mainly because his language
was violent and his temper was dreadful. If he
ever was a democrat it was over 30 years ago,
when he followed Graham Berry; in his later
years he was a Tory of the Tories, with
some dim rags of his old alleged democratic
reputation still hanging round him. He became a
Minister once—that is to say, he held a very in-
ferior office in Bryan O’Loghlen’s stop-gap
Government, and as his constituents threw him
out when he went up for re-election, he only held
even that inferior office for 24 days. Then, bar-
ring one short appearance, promptly followed by
dismissal, he was out of politics for nearly
24 years. A few years ago, when the
civil servants had their own special mem-
bers, they were persuaded to elect Gaun-
son on his reputation as a fighter. He
fought—at least he roared—all right, but on the
wrong side, and his callous, wanton abandonment
of his constitutents and the policy on which he
had been elected left him without a shi ed of poli-
tical reputation. After that, his name in public
life was plain Mud.
Given a good memory success is within the
reach of all. The Pelman System makes good memories.
Half-an-hour daily for six weeks completes the course.
Taught by post. Permanent benefits. Write Pelman
School of Memory, 3 Stock Exchange Buildings, Mel-
bourne.*
MISTER JOHNSON, the wit , brain, and beauty
of the Federal Opposition.
David Gaunson, ex-Parliamentarian, who
died at Melbourne on Saturday, was a Sydney
native, and was born in Lower George-street,
where his father kept a grocery store close to the
present site of the fire station. He entered this
mundane sphere in January, 1846. He was
schooled in Sydney and Melbourne, and in 1862
he became an articled clerk i.. the office of his
brother-in-law, Mr. J. M. Grant, solicitor, well
known in political life. Mr. Grant had been in
practice in Sydney (his father was once a plumber
in that city). In August 1875 Mr. Gaunson was
married to Miss Margaret McLeod Scott, a
daughter of the late Edward Scott, of Melbourne.
She died a couple of years ago.
Adelaide’s most sensational insolvency
since the Harrold case is over. “Morty” Muir-
head has long been one of the (at any rate) best-
known lawyers in the city, and his big and
handsome family has loomed large in all athletic
and social matters. He says that he earned over
£70,000 in 14 years, but was crippled by the ruin
of John Robb, of Melbourne, his father-in-law,
and of the Federal Bank ; also, that his wife has
immense, but vague, claims against her brother
(on whose petition he was made insolvent), and
they ought still to be wealthy. He treated
the long weeks of Court proceedings as a kind of
theatrical picnic, and the J udge gradually hardened
from an expostulatory “Really, Mr. Muirhead,”
to a curt “Remove that man ! ” The final judg-
ment was for a second-class certificate, suspended
for three years, and was enlivened by passages
such as “amounts made up in large round sums
of thousands of pounds, with a sprinkling of hun-
dreds,” “estimates entirely unreliable,” “state-
ments quite untrue,” “muddleand extravagance,”
“obviously nonsense.” But the unquenchable
Muirhead (in defiance of his own counsel, Paris
Nesbit, K. 0.) told the Court, “I go for a first-
class certificate or nothing,” and was on deck next
morning with a two-column statement (“advt.”)
in the daily papers, and an appeal to the Supreme
Court.
F. W. DAWBORN, ex-schoolmaster, who ran
the mighty Swinburne, of Hawthorn, to within
six votes.
Photo.—The Ana Studio, Auburn (Vic.).
J. M. Fowler, who is threatening to secede
from the Federal Labor party, is one of those
amazing anomalies, a Freetrade Laborist. He
was at one time an ardent Socialist, and used to
hurl jagged fragments of Marx on Sunday after-
noons in Studley Park, Yarra Bank and other
places. Then he went West and took an active
part in the Federation movement, and became
first member for Perth; a position he has held
ever since. According to common report, which
is often an uncommon liar, Fowler is embittered
at being passed over by both Watson and Fisher
in the formation of their Labor Ministries, which
may account for his talk about retiring.
BUCCANEER BENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
nf q^^ rem l er , (sh ? uting) : “ I—have—brought the ship-
of State—into harbor.” (Great laughter.)
Nominally Mr. Bent will have a following of 23, while
' S ® S !' U n ated that the Opposition, including the Labor
paitj, will number 43. —Daily papers.
She lies in Dissolution Dock
Upon the Parliamentary sand,
While Bent, with pistols at full-cock,
Doth shout most gallantly on land.
His pirate crew are scattered wide,
His ship unfit to go to sea,
Yet at the inn he roars with pride
And points at pirates twenty-three.
He tells of booty lost and won,
And captures on the gassy main.
And swears that ere his life be done,
His band shall sail with him again.
But three-and-forty mutineers,
Surrounding pirates twenty-three
(Their shipmates of four plund’ring years)
Say grufHy that it cannot be.
Yet Captain Bent—that headstrong man—
With loaded pistols at full cock,
Doth make a show of bein# brave,
And swears that he will out of dock.
He counts aloud the captures made,
And taunts them with their treachery ;
But three-and-forty, unafraid,
Laugh scornfully at twenty-three.
And so the quarrel at the inn
Goes on, whilst round the clock’s white
face
The two hands move amid the din
At Time’s own, well-accustomed pace.
She lies by Dissolution Quay,
With splintered spars and canvas rent,
A ship of State that sailed the sea
For shameful years ’neath Captain Bent.
The empty treasure chest gapes wide,
The big stern cabin reeks of smoke.
The carpet’s stained where Honor died
Beneath a rover’s cutlass-stroke.
The spoiler’s traces ev’rywhere
Arrest the eye. Some powder grains
Have marred the satin of a chair ;
Upon a couch are old wine stains.
A pistol on the carpet lies,
And, close beside, a gold doubloon
Gleams like a beacon for men’s eyes
And winks back at the ’frighted moon.
She lies in Dissolution Dock
What time the braggart, fresh from sea,
Doth talk around the white-faced clock
To them that made the mutiny.
But, curse and bully as he will,
There’s forty-three that say him nay
To twenty-three that serve him still—
And so it stands at close of day.
In Dissolution Dock she swings,
Delivered by some accident,
With bloodied decks and broken wings
From out the hands of Captain Bent!
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


S 3
V‘
*
'
. .<> * 3 I
di
m
■
■
' ■£
*e£
>'V
■ v.&
■4^
✓
4
rt
fi
'
r»- V -J
EXPERIENTA DOCET.
Look here, young' 1909! Take our advice, and stick to
HAVELOCK TOBACCO and CIGARETTES!”


Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have foe Peivate Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawing's.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Douis' XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
An active policeman at Ryde,
When asked, “ Why so happy ?” replied,
With grin quite laconic;
“ Just Pills, Laxo-Tonic :
Move on ! or I’ll run you inside ! ”
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stkipe
Mattalasse and other Unshkinkable Shikts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
ECZEMA
THE SKIN
SCOURGE
This Man
Tortured
Night and
Day Cured
by Rich New
Blood.
sfd
Eczema is one of the most
torturing forms of Skin Dis-
order. The burning, itching,
prickling sensation is often
maddening. Sometimes per-
sons apparently healthy in
every other way are attacked.
Often it is a symptom in stom-
ach trouble, rheumatism, gout,
or a generally low state of
health. Lotions and ointments
are only of value to allay the
itching sensation. They do not
cure. All the highest medical
authorities agree that a tonic is
necessary to drive the com-
plaint from the system.
Amongst tonics Dr. Williams'
Pink Pills stand alone. Their
twelve years’ record of cures
in Australia proves that there
is nothing nearly so good.
They cured Mr. Walter A. Piekford, of 247
Grenfell Street, Adelaide, who was so bad with
eczema for 15 years that he despaired of ever
getting his skin clear. In his ease he was also a
sufferer from rheumatism.
“In 1895 I got a bad attack of eczema, brought
on by neglected prickly heat.” said Mr. Piekford
to a reporter. “ I went to a chemist who gave me
some medicine, but it did no good. It gradually
got worse, and the pimples came out in heads and
blotches, and the itching was something awful.
No amount of scratching gave me any relief.
Very often I would be awake for a couple of hours
at night, unable to sleep for the terrible itching.
In the summer the perspiration would get into
the blotches on my back and make it worse. I
had an awful time for years and years. During
all this time I had rheumatism, and this made
matters worse. It was mostly in my knees and
shoulders. Very often I could not get my hand
up to brush my hair on account of the dull, gnaw-
ing pain in my shoulder. My knees had the
same dull, gnawing aching, and they swelled up a
lot, and walking was often a positive pain to me.
I lost my appetite. I could not eat much and got
thin and pale and weak.
“One doctor told me I had eczema, and that
there was no cure for it. Nothing did me any
good at all. But once when reading ‘Lloyd’s
Weekly’ I saw in an article how a man had been
cured of eczema by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
The same night I got a box of Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills from Court, the chemist in Rundle Street.
I took this box, and got some from my grocer, and
by the time I had finished the third box I felt
some benefit. The itching was not so bad. After
that I felt myself getting better with each box,
the itching getting less and the blotches on my
back were going away. I noticed the rheumatic
pains were leaving me, and now they are com-
pletely gone. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills did for
me what the doctor said nothing would do, they
cured me of eczema. Now I am in really good
health.”
Insist on getting Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
They are sold by most chemists and storekeepers,
or if not locally obtainable will be sent direct by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney, for 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
This Elastic Truss
sf
sf
sfdf
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of .Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter SD.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“XXX” writes from Yassberra :
I don’t think that Federal picnic party will come up
here somehow. If it does, it will be led by Austin Chap-
man, or some such legislator whose aim is to hurl discredit
on the Sydney daily newspapers' chosen site. The Yass
representative of these sheets has been smitten with
writer’s cramp. He no longer pens rapturous pieces about
“rolling plains covered with a thick mantle of green
verdure, on which snow-white sheep graze content-
edly.” He hasn’t the heart or the hide to do
it. For at the present moment a sun-baked expanse
of grassless desert stretches away as far as the
Yassite eye can reach, and the lean jumbucks of ’Berra are
staring skyward, and praying for the rain that cometh not.
For months no moisture worth speaking of has occurred
in the district. The roads are knee-deep in dust. The
creeks are waterless, and the vaunted rivers are so many
chains of waterholes. And the heat! And the flies !
And the decomposition! Ye gods! No, as I re-
marked before, that Federal picnic proposal will fall
through for a certainty unless rain hurries up. Truth
would step from the interior of a dead sheep or from the
sand of a dry watercourse before the outing was a day old,
to the utter disgruntlement of the liars who have been
proclaiming this Ma’s “ most fertile and desirable tract of
country.” And the liars know it.
The Sydney daily papers were shocked
worse than usual the other day, and wrote in-
dignant leaders on a text supplied by the miners’
own paper at Broken Hill. Said miners’ paper
had announced that, if the Arbitration Court
decided in favor of a reduction of pay, there
would be nothing for it but a fight— to
quote the exact words: “If the Arbitration
Court award means reduction the only resort
will be a strike.” The country was asked
what it thought of that for fair play. Naturally,
however, the Fat papers twisted the whole thing
horribly. What the miners’ paper had done was
really to quote the Fat Australasian, the special
organ of the Broken Hill directors, which said:
“ If a scale of wages be awarded that it will not
pay to give, the only resort of the directors must
be to shut down.” The miners’ organ said that
that was a “ dastardly suggestion,” and submitted
the other proposition—that if the owners’ “only
resort” when the award went against it was a
lockout, then the miners’ “only resort” must
be a strike. The Fat Sydney papers were
contemptible enough to quote what the miners
had said without breathing a word of the fact
that the miners had merely paraphrased the
remark of the Fat Australasian.
Sydney Daily
Telegraph had
more visions of
fractured State
Frights after its
Christmas dinner.
There is a row at
Broken Hill be-
tween miners and
owners. The
miners propose td
go to the Federal
Arbitration Courts
and the co* under-
takes, in order to
clear the way, not
to raise any ques-
tion of jurisdic-
tion. The Tele-
graph calls this an
invasion of State
rights, carefully
forgetting that the
co.’s mine is in one
State and its smelt-
ing and refining
works and flux
quarries are in an-
other State, where-
fore a Federal
Court is the only
one which can
effectively deal
with the row. In
fact, it was on the
strength of just
this very class of
dispute that the
Commonwealth
was empowered to
deal with Arbitra-
tion ; the right
was fought for in
the Federal Con-
vention by J. H.
Howe, who was
director of a Brok-
en Hill co. and
also the South
Australian State
Parliamentary re-
presentative of the
district where the bulk of the'smelting and
refining is done. The Telegraph will be calling
on the State to suppress the postman presently on
the ground that he is a base usurper and a person
who, somehow or other, is doing Wade out of some
of his privileges.
“ Anti- Socialist ” is a good serviceable
word these times. The Victorian election was
fought on one straight issue—Bent or No More
Bent. Unless Tommy can persuade a whole lot
of anti-Bentitesto turn a very difficult corner very
rapidly, the No More Bent members—Labor men,
Murrayites, and Independents, also certain
Government men who only stick to the Ministry
on the understanding that Thomas resigns—are in
a huge majority. So the Argus drops Bent out of
the question altogether, lumps together all save
the direct Labor men as Anti-Socialists, and says
proudly that Anti-Sosh has achieved a great vic-
tory. It is interesting, of course, but it would be
as much to the point if the Argus made up a
paper majority by lumping together bald-headed
members, Anglicans, Primitive Methodists, and
members who collect rare postage stamps, and
wear tan boots, and said that the anti-liquor
party had come out on top.
Sycfney Fatman on the verandah at
National Park on Boxing Day beamed
on his hearers while “setting himself
right.” “It’s ridiculous to charge me
with narrow-mindedness or class-feeling.
I’m quite happy to give the Labor party
a turn. We have to pay the Ministerial
salaries, whoever draws them, and why
shouldn’t the Labor party get its whack ?
I assure you I’m not in the least bigoted.
As long as the party doesn’t go in for the
funny business it talks from platforms, I
contend it is entitled, constitutionally
entitled, to its share of the loaves and
fishes. For the next six months and
longer we’re safer with Fisher than we
were with Deakin. Any day, Deakin
might have sprung direct taxation of some
kind on us. We were never sure. But,
by changing to Labor, we are sure of a
substantial rest, and we do the constitu-
tional thing by giving the men a turn at
the money-box. You see, I’m not at all
bigoted. Some of you thought Fisher
would have done what he blamed Deakin
for not doing. You don’t know politicians.
When they come back they may propose
some funny business, but, if theys how
they mean it, we’ll throw them out. In
the meantime, we give them six months’
pay and they give us six months’ peace.”
Victoria and Tasmania, the two
Sates which suffer most severely under
the Big Landlord Curse, show signs of
stagnation everywhere. As one instance,
Australia added 932| miles to its rail-
way system between 1905 and 1908, and of this
lot 2| miles were in Victoria and Tasmania—two
miles in Victoria, and half a mile in Tasmania.
It isn’t worth while making railways in regions
where there are only landlords and rabbits and
scenery. Furthermore, between 1904 and 1908,
the net earnings of the Australian railways in-
creased by £1,842,799—£18,600 in Victoria and
Tasmania, and £1,824,199 in the other States,
where the Big Landlord isn’t quite so bad.
“We can build torpedo-boat destroyers
at the N.S.W. Government Dockyard from start
to finish, machinery and all,” said the superin-
tendent of Cockatoo dock (Sydney), the other day.
Every sensible Australian who takes an interest
in his country knew that much long ago, but there
are so many alleged Australians of the Foreign-
trade persuasion who make a point of not knowing
that their country can build anything that the
statement is worth reprinting. And the nation that
can build a torpedo-boat can build a Dreadnought.
It is only a question of a bigger dock and bigger
machinery, and of doing the same kind of work
on a bigger scale.
THE AFTERMATH.
(With acknowledgmcnts to somebody.)
Having come through the excitement of a championship
fight, the horrors of an election campaign, and the
festivities of Christmas, the Victorian citizen acknow-
ledges symptoms akin to the above.
VIE. CITIZEN: “GEE rusatem, I must have had a
merry Christmas!”
The awful example of the Yic. elections
was Gurr, of Geelong. That lamentable political
character, whom Turner unaccountably made a
Minister in the long ago, had voted to defeat
Bent, and had also said things about Bent’s
neglect of Geelong. This ingratitude roused
Adolphus, who skirmished up a local man to carry
his soiled flag, and also promised to go down to
Geelong and “tell all about Gurr.” He had no
need, for the sorrowful wobbler hastily besought
Bent to let him be his own true slave once more.
The great man was appeased, and promptly threw
his own candidate to the wolves ; whereupon the
electors, having carefully noted all the circum-
stances, sent the Laborite, farmer Plain, to repre-
sent them, with more votes than the two Bentites
combined.
THE EARTH IS THE LANDLORD’S, AND
THE FULNESS THEREOF.
Over 700 new colonists have arrived in Australia by the
steamer Waratah.
AUSTRALIA: “ This is a nice New Year beginning.
I can’t get a bit of land for myself let alone
for 700 immigrants!”
Two persons cast a special gloom over last
Week—the bloke who proposed calling the Aus-
tralian capital “Australia Lovely Home” and
the cove who wanted it named “Home Sweet
Home.” Individuals like these shouldn’t be
allowed out unless they are registered and have
the owner’s name legibly inscribed on the collar.
Why doesn’t someone suggest calling that capital
“Jerusalem My Happy Home, Name Ever Dear
To Me ” ? Then Australia would be the only
country on earth with a comma in the middle o
the designation of its metropolis.
“Existence may be summed up thus:
Up till thirty—live. After thirty—liver. And
then—just living.”— R. Hichens. Life need not be
miserable after you are thirty years old. If your
liver is sluggish and refuses to perform its func-
tions, take. a few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets
and you will live anew. *
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “The Commonwealth
Crisis,'’ by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
The result of the election for the Mel-
bourne constituency was a worse blow to Fat than
when little Dr. Maloney threw shipowner
McEacharn out. The Age of course helped Boyd,
who spent a lot of the election time trying to rub
off the old Bent brand ; and at the last moment
the Argus, fearing a split vote, threw over Bent’s
nominee, Hamilton, and barracked for Boyd like*
Wise. When it was all over, not only had Hamil*
ton beaten Boyd—66B to 661 —but the unknown
Port Melbourne Laborite, Rogers, had walloped
the pair of them. That seat should stay with
Labor now; for at next election the women will
be voting, and while Mrs. Fat won’t have a vote
in the city, Mrs. Pickandshovel, who lives there,
will.
The Foreign-trade papers’ news columns
are always shrieking derision at its “leading”
columns. The S. M. Herald has warned Aus-
tralia that with Protection prices would bound up
till the poor consumer would be crushed ; yet it
reports, in its annual summary of the year’s
market movements, that fencing wire has fallen
about 10s. during the year; and as for wire
nettings the difference amounts to from £8 to £lO
a mile. Then it explains :
The feature of the year’s business is probably the
stronger appearance in the markets of locally-manu-
factured nettings, wires, nails and similar lines.
Yet, as sure as death, when next elections come
round, the S. M. Herald will revive the old lie
that Protection crushes the consumer, and that
duties put a load upon “the primary pro-
ducer” “in the interests of a few Melbourne
manufacturers.”
THE BALLAD OF WILLIAM PLAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A feature of the recent State elections in Victoria was
the return for the Geelong electorate of William Plain,
farmer and Labor candidate.— News Item.
A ballad herewith of William Plain—of plain unvarnished
Bill—
Ho ! the A rods sobs with speechless pain, and Aunty
Sosh cries shrill!
For a dreadful sight is this we see, and well may strong
men weep—
This vision, alas ! of Plain, M.P., let loose in the land of
sheep!
There's grief just now in the landlord’s heart, a tear in
his anguished eye
As Labor mounts in the Judgment Car and spurns poor
Aunty’s guy!
Plain Bill moves up, whilst Fat moves down—what
saddening sights are seen
Where the fertile plains roll rich and brown, but farms
are far between !
O bogey battered, O scarecrow vain,' held up by the Tory
crew—
Lo, the people barrack for William Plain, but they jeer
large jeers at you !
High time they buried you, bogey drear, with the corpse
of gibbering Gurr
. (Take note, we are only speaking of the political
sepulchre).
High time Plain Bill arose and smote with a large, deter-
mined smite
At the painted spook in the spurious coat, and ruined
that spectre quite !
For the years go by whilst farmers’ sons seek homesteads
over-sea —
Whilst sheep abide on the spacious runs where the homes
of men should be !
Too long this land has fed but sheep—too long have tame
M’s.P.
Sprawled wide in the senate house asleep, and drawn
their yearly fee !
Too long the Gurrs and the ghastly crew (who at last are
moving off)
Have lived the life of Nothing-to-Do, and have scoffed the
well-fed scoff !
Now William, who is a farmer-man, gets up and he begs
to state
That lie is the party ’neath Fat’s ban—yea, is Labor’s
candidate !
He rises up and he asks for votes, and the votes come in
amain,
And now we see in the van of things the banner of William
Plain.
Lo, this is a land that needs Plain Bill—it needs in Parlia-
ment '
The man who’ll toil with an earnest will to hustle this
continent;
It needs the man from the reaper-seat, in place of the
drifting Gurrs —
The man who grows the good red wheat, and grafts where
the thresher whirs !
It yells for the men whose backs are straight—lo, the
man with a switch-back spine
Is a public plague and a nuisance great, and he’s only fit
to whine :
So we hold out a hand to William Plain and the chaps
who understand—
To toil in our legislation-mills and steer this harassed
land 1
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


eg
□
IBM
llffll
These Highly Artistic Pianos
have been proving their
excellence in Australia for
the past 40 Years.
To such good purpose have
they done it, that we find it
difficult to Keep pace with
orders.
The last consignment re-
ceived are real beauties,
there being a poetry in their
tone that will appeal to all
musicians, whilst their case-
worK is very chaste.
As to their durability, we
cannot speaK too highly, and
we substantiate what we say
with our full guarantee.
We sell these Pianos for
cash or on easy terms, and
our Catalog'ues are yours
for the ashing.
SOLE AGENTS:
H. PALING <a CO., LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
Business Suits
for Country eTown. Wear.
It
Mil 1
Best Value
in
Australia
m
J
P
«
/
*
p€
ft*
i
I
I
r
v
0
Write /or Patterns
and
Sel/ Measurement
Forms.
Cut Styles Finish/)/ High Standard.
BUCKLEYt'MJNN I™
Bourne St Melbourne.
“ Old Member ” writes :
The most pleasing feature of the un-Bent elections in
Victoria is the emphatic progress of the Labor party.
The Melbourne and Collingwood seats were won on
minority votes; but Geelong, Port Fairy and Ballarat
West were absolute wins, and Gippsland North practi-
cally so. Also in Ballarat East, Barvvon and Dundas,
Labor ran the sitting member close enough to give him
the shivers ; while not a single Labor member lost bis
seat. The man on the land and the man who wants to
get on the land are beginning to find that Labor isn t the
mad wrecker the Argus says it is. In that respect,
Price’s record in S. Aus. has done a world of good.
“ 0.K.” : The betting is 6 to 4 against
Swinburne getting re-elected for Hawthorn (Mel-
bourne) if he ventures into the new Vic. Govern-
ment. He won the election last week by six
votes, and there are complaints re the omission of
the names of anti-Swinburners from the rolls.
It is necessary to nail Swinburne, the
eminent Victorian gasman, to something; and
The Bulletin nails him to these remarks, made
to his Hawthorn constituents :
lean see no other system for the subdivision of the
land than an aggressive taxation policy. . . . There has
been £200,000 of Government money spent m the shire of
Rodney, while the number of landholders has been in-
creased by only six during the last 15 years. . . . On one
of the most important roads in Rodney 18 years ago there
were 28 farmers ; to-day there are only four. That sort
of thing cannot continue ; we might as well send Llwood
Mead back to America.
And, observing that Swinburne is unusually
flexible, The Bulletin, after nailing him to that,
glues him to it also for greater safety—Swin-
burne’s safety in the first place, and Victoria s in
the second place.
When the Commonwealth tries to do any-
thing, the Sydney Telegraph shrieks “State
Frights,” and when it doesn’t try to do anything
the same Telegraph speaks contemptuously of
the Commonwealth’s “ inertia ” and general use-
lessness. Being unable to get statistics from the
States, the Commonwealth explained, the other-
day, that its own statistics would be delayed;
whereupon the Telegraph :
The Commonwealth should have its own means of col-
lecting statistics, and if the States choose also to main-
tain separate establishments, that is their affair. Up-to-
date Australian statistics are particularly necessary to
any energetic scheme of Commonwealth advertising, and
the fact that they are still unavailable can only be taken as
another example of the invincible inertia regarding immi-
gration that has characterised the Federal Government
ever since it has been in existence.
And so on. The last Conference of Premiers
warned the Australian Government not to meddle
with immigration except as the “agent of the
States,” and now the Telegraph, which whooped
for the State insects, is scolding like a fish-fag
because the States have not only failed to instruct
their agent, but actually hayen’t supplied the
necessary information. But it isn’t scolding the
States —it is the Commonwealth that has all the
Telegraph’s bad language flung at it.
Watt, member for Essendon (Vic.), tells a
characteristic story of Bent’s election campaign
methods. The warders in Pentridge Gaol, which
is in Watt’s electorate, had been agitating for the
same Sunday leave as other public servants get;
and Bent saw there an excellent opening for some
fine work on behalf of the Ministerial candidate.
So he posed as a benefactor to his public servants
by sending out his candidate, accompanied by
Keuben Keirl, to inform the governor of the gaol
that the Government had been pleased to grant
the wishes of the warders.
Another Bent land transaction is refusing
to stay where it was buried. On 12th Jan., 190(5,
Thomas Bent and W. T. Huntley, as executors of
Elizabeth Bent, transferred a block of Brighton
land to Jas. Hope, a relative of Bent s, for fcJOO.
The same day Jas. Hope re-transferred the land
to the Vic. Government at the same price A-000.
The land was bought in connection with the El-
wood Canal improvements. Bent explains that
“there is nothing in it; he was merely an
executor, and Hope made nothing by the deal.
Yet if Bent was only an executor, and everything •
was fair and above board, why was Hope brought
into the matter at all? Also, what sort of a
benevolent institution is Hope to buy and sell
land just for the fun of the thing, and to pay the
transfer fees for nothing ?
A small item tucked away in the recent
Sydney shipping reports reads: “The steamer
Opland left Ocean Island on December 14th for
the Gilbert Group for the purpose of recruiting
native labor.” These Ocean Island people are
on a good wicket, and the bowling is easy, loe
Pacific Phosphates Company has a lease of the
premises—a lonely islet in the Western Pacific
composed of nothing else but solid super-
phosphates. Chartered steamers, mostly Ger-
man, are constantly employed carting the
island away in pieces .to all parts of the world
in order to manure the wheat crops, and most of
the work is done for the company by cheap niggei
labor. Great Britain exercises a supervision over
the Gilbert Group, where it maintains a High
Commissioner and a Deputy High Commissioner,
and no doubt these officials are satisfied that being
recruited by German steamers to do navvy’s work
digging up phosphate 'all day long for a foreign
syndicate is the best sort of life a Gilbert Islander
can strike, and that it is calculated to make him
a happy, beaming nigger all the balance of his
days. .
That abnormal criminal, the nigger Wil-
liam King, of Melbourne, has had more bursts of
ferocity. Two or three months back he was sen-
tenced to 15 years for burglary with violence, and
was also ordered to be detained under the Inde-
terminate Sentences Act at the expiration of his
term. Practically that means a life sentence, as
King is now over 40 ; so evidently he has realised
the hopelessness of his position and has determined
to introduce as much variety into it as possible
by frequent dust-ups with the warders. Since
his return to “the farm,” after only a couple of
weeks’ absence therefrom, the black warrior has
conducted himself with savage truculence and
profound disrespect for authority. In fact, he has
done his best to make the gaol uninhabitable.
He has broken all the smaller rules of the estab-
lishment in many pieces, and on New Year’s Day
he laid himself out to finish a warder with a knife,
which had by some means come into his posses-
sion. Fortunately for the warder, the weapon was
old, and broke off ; so the nigger, with his usual
amazing luck, has again missed an indict-
ment for a capital offence. He missed it
on at least one occasion before for an
attempted outrage with unmentionable details,
his accusers refusing to narrate the full and com-
plete horror in the witness-box. King seems to
have committed all the violent offences on earth
save suicide, and to have committed them all with
dreadful additions and adornments of his own
devising ; and he is a big, muscular blot of infamy
who seems capable of making the gaol unfit for
ordinary human occupancy during the best part
of a generation yet. Victoria may one day have
to pass An Act for the Shooting of William King
on General Principles.


&
EST. 1818.
Peter F. Heering’s
CHERRy BRnnny
COPENHAGEN
s*-
\»
7
IS
Robuß
The next time you go
to your Grocer for any-
thing, ask him to give you
a Robur Calendar. The
Pictures are, as usual,
copies of works of art in
the National Gallery, and
are better produced this
year than ever before.
It isn’t so much that the
Calendars are of any great
value that we suggest your
getting one as that they
are handy for reference
throughout the year, and
artistic little things to have
hanging up in one’s home.
We would also suggest
that you use our tea —we
ought to have said our
good tea, for it really is
good, as well as being nice
and very economical.
The No. 1 Grade is
rich, full delightful flavored
tea. We know of no tea
more suitable for every-
day “ high - class ” family
trade, and none that it will
pay better to use.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
~ „ Sydney, January 5, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
D^d°W? IC,C c Nevi i U ’ Chamberlain at the Court of
Sterlu^ L, S”“ i ™!?'« Engrl,v n d this month
alter ail lie will wait for three, perhaps four
moons longer. Lord Dick is a priceless asset
for a Governor-General who wishes to make
few mistakes and hurt no feelings. He is
acquainted with all who go to Government House
two that a H ltalS ’i an u Wlth an additional cohort or
two that doesn t. He never talks scandal (for lie
t and U veth d e? a bulh ° n V i ault) nor darkens to
it, and yet he knows everything about everyone—
hdnnlalUa^l^CharaCteristic ’ since toa Chamber-
passage' 3W Th d e g A C ° n r teS a i Calm gubernatorial
T o Australian nobility is touchy. It
takes offence on trivial and obscure grounds• and
when annoyed its exasperation is terrible to’ wit
ri° mort . al Governor is capable, unaided
of carrying on without maddening some
section or other. The Dudley counsellor
ifln?f° bab w a ii lnore able diplomatist than the
illustrious Wallington himself. Even Wallinsrton
was incapable of wholly averting Government
House trouble ; during the different Nevill regimes
the h„T er has bee ? an y serious difficulty at
the headquarters of free food—which may be
UUU and’offie tlS l> more f Pl ' obabl / attrih utable to the
tali bland official s extreme adroitness. It would
pay a peace-loving Governor-General to persuade
to renvnn" 1 ' brlbe tbe Nevill type of chamberlain
to remain on as a permanency.
Our old friend, Lord Carrington, in an opening
speech at some Polytechnic thing the other da/
schooiTofi d v that “Il hen hls godfather was It
school 106 years ago there was only one bov who had
a prayer-book (in that school presumably), “and
he was called Peter Pious.” No doubt the boy
vamiy tried to exchange the volume for a copy of
the MuSlid^S’enge.” 0 *— «
toomba taken about the age Lord Dudley is
"°,^ and i th fi I \ ke r Ssb6tween thetwo Potentates
is hke unto that of twin brethren. Possibly the
erect bearing, the uniform, and the huge dark
brace of moustaches are mainly responsible for the
outward similarity of the rulers.
“ Wh^ ay T S !- Mr t Hughes may now be asked
What is the time by your bangle?” The ladv
was presented with a jewelled watch bracelet by
the aklermen of the City Council on the last day
of the old year. lo be accurate, she was not at
the time ex, but was on the point of becoming so.
Her husband, the retiring chieftain, had a silver
salver, with a suitable inscription, inflicted upon
, Wonder if the charger on which the
daughter of Herodias received the cranium of
toHerod ' Baptlafc WaS a Presentation bit of plate
By New Year’s Day the popular pair were
really out, and the ins, the Allen Taylors—papa
mama and sonny Forster-were at the races at
Hand wick. Possibly they went thither in the
three motors.
Mrs. Titus, who as Helene Rubinstein, the
Venus of Yalaze, gives new faces for old to the
moneyed women of England, is looking up the
sailing dates of Australian-bound liners. She
wants to glance in at her various wrinkle-eraser
ractones on this side of the world. Even if she
K? e f n i b u ng i W1 r h her new device for putting
back the hand of time (as laid on the face) she
will be sure to have something adorable in the
way of frocks. A returned Smart Setter savs she
saw pretty Helene wearing five different Callot
f ™ c k s «» one week. “ And Callot Soeurs,”
added the Smart Setter, “ won’t even look at
your material under forty guineas.”
Mrs. Alfred Milson contemplates quitting her
sea frontage during the sunburnt months, and pay-
ing a visit to Maoriland with deer-stalking intent
ihe large-eyed antlered creatures are hereby
warned to read their Bulletin carefully and take
note that trouble is coming. But if the huntress
doesn t bring down anything in the venison line .
she can always take comfort in the remembrance
tnat she is a very smart hatter.
t / r ' Vincent Welch has taken his beauti-
ful mustachios away from the Commercial Union
Assurance of winch company he was the idol
potentate for 28 years. He is on the committees
of half the charitable organisations of this State
is one of the directors of the Art Gallery, and has
collected quantities of valuable works of art and
a family of five or six fine sons.
Amongst the Sydneysiders gone hence by the
India are Mr. and Mrs. Norman Pope, Mr.
Mclntosh, who engineered the fight down in
what was a while ago a Chinese vegetable aarden.
Mclntosh as a caterer will be greatly regretted bv
the committee women of charity balls. They used
to go to him looking poor and pathetic, and tell
him of the worthiness and poverty of the institu-
tmn for which the ball was rolled, and he would
cater the frisk at their own figure.
The other Shipman brother, the Freddie one
has acquired the managerial rights of the beauti-
ful tenor voice that abides in Philip Newbury, and
r\ L t( :ir J tbe Sll ?£ er and his song awhile in Aus-
fLld la r 6r m , Am ° rlca - Every tenor of note
heara here from far lands strengthens Sydney’s
opinion as to Newbury’s right to sit in the seats
of the mighty good singers.
Miss Alice Henry, late of Melbourne, has been
heard of from Chicago as acting-editor of the
Woman s Department of the Union Labor Advo-
cate, the organ of the Women’s Trade Union
league. It sounds toilsome and altruistic.
Miss Essie Davis, whom some Sydney women
will remember as a creator of dreams of frocks
has gone to London and into the employ of
Debenham and Freebody-a brace of names with
which we are familiar through women’s illustrated
papers.
A returned Australian says the only sensation
she experienced during a month in London was
seeing Mrs. Winston Churchill fall off her horse
?? The descent was caused through
the lady turning excitedly to have another stare
at another equestrienne—a girl from one of the
theatres, who was riding a white horse, dressed in
a correct, if not quite modest, directoire habit.
ie damsel-—not the gee-gee—wore the habit,
which was slit up the side to disclose white flesh-
ings Consequently Mrs. Winston Churchill fell
° j er . S^ee d and smote her parent—in other
words, she struck Mother Earth.
A little lady who was shipped off to Europe a
while ago for musical study without any mention
being made of the fact was Elizabeth Delprat,
(laughter of the man who draws a Governor-
treneral s pay for general-managing the big
tw C u K silver mine. The Delprats are
Dutch people, and the girls, when they arrived in
these parts, were for all the world like little
Dutch dolls. Mister makes the higher mathe-
matics and a perpetual smile his hobbies. Missus
is rather shocked at what the Australians spend
on clothes, and gives her soul to music. Eliza-
beth studied first at the Adelaide Conservatorium,
which is part of the local University; now she’s
at the Liege Conservatorium, in the little pad-
dock: of .Belgium, and word comes out that she has
a i r l ad £ swarmed HP *° coveted post of leader
of the Conservatorium orchestra.
• r ‘ Reid and his small tribe are stay-
ing at Pennant Hills. The distinguished head of
the family has gone, just to get a sea-wind pick-
ling, to 1 remantle. Everyone seems to be rest-
less and disinclined to stop in his mansion or his
flat, or his hotel, or his disused boiler, as the case
may be. Dr. Liddell, Maitland’s beloved member,
is decorating a Blue Mountains resort. Mr.
Uwen Cox took his myrtle-green motor to Ka-
toomba for Christmas week, and with his party
stayed at the Carrington. Mr. and Mrs. Baxter
Bruce also sampled the golden weather on the
same hill tops.
A personage whom Sydney is just dying to
locate is within our gates. Prince Batthyany
Stratman is he bight, but so far no one seems able
pounce on him. He is said to be located at
the Union Club, at the Australia, at Potts Point,
and at Medlow. Under another name of course.
Probably he is calling himself John Brown.
lliere was no one nigh to play naughts-and-
crosses or cats -cradle with me, so i went leisurely
through my pile of year 1908 inter-Australasian
Christmas cards. In this netlier-region-like
weather such occupations don’t worry your dome
of intellect. There are 62 cards in the pile. The
top one shows a blue bird with a pink waistcoat
and an ‘ admonishing” tail. This fowl, which
was made in Germany, holds a wreath of forget-
me-nots in his beak, and the card con-
tains the usual good wishes. Next card is
decorated with holly and ivy. The third
shows a snow scene and a towering castle; the
fourth Norwich Cathedra] ; the fifth (on beauti-
fully grained and tinted paper) is flecked with
sun dials, and holds an intimation that they count
only the hours that are serene. The sixth is an
English landscape with a windmill enveloped in a
light that never was on land or sea, and on a rose-
pink road is a pedestrian figure bowed beneath
either weight of woe or lack of compulsory
military training. The seventh and eighth are
respectively cuddlesome kittens and comical dogs.
A ninth bids me keep the corners of my mouth
turned up, and illustrates the request with a
picture of a lady with a face like a primordial
sun.
With the exception of three cards the pile is
quite un-Australian. “ Why this injurious differ-
entiation ?” as Mr. B. Smith would say. The cards
are either made in Germany, or by a person called
Raphael Tuck in England. Why should friends
of mine, living in Melbourne, send me a picture
of Westminster Cathedral and a view in the
Swiss Engadine ? Some Victorian scenery is
well worth putting on Christmas cards. The
Boy croft Library people say the dearth of “local
color” in Christmas, New Year and birthday
cards is the fault of Australian artists. The
Library is often entreated for “something Aus-
tralian in that line, but there is not enough supply
to meet the frequent demand. It looks as if there
were a chance for the Australian flower painter and
landscaper to earn something. A Maoriland girl-
painter did a series of cards showing the wild
flowers of her ishmds, and they sold like icecreams,
but she had to send them to Germany for printing.
Some Sydney shops are “developing” a few
trousseaux. Miss Esme Sly’s is one. Miss Julie
Cohen, only daughter of the Norman Cohens, and
niece of Mrs. Burnett Cohen, is another reaper of
orange blossoms. She marries Mr. Phillips on
Wednesday week.
Two Playoust girls, daughters of an important
Erench wool-buyer living at Eandwiclc, took on
the joys and cares of Mrs.-dom last week. Marie
Therese and Marguerite are the sweet names of
the orange-blossom pluckers. They married re-
spectively Mr. Ernest Polin, who is in business at
Bellinger, and a French gentleman who, like the
paternal Playoust, is in the fleece line and buys
the juinbuck’s overcoat. The Playousts, unlike
most Gallic couples, have a family of about ten.
Barrister Maughan, who marries Miss Muffle
Barton, daughter of the High Court Justice, has
taken “Cheam,” a pretty, doll’s-house kind of
habitation at Wbollahra. The Mioores (he’s
Minister for Lands and Agriculture, which sounds
hotter because of this weather) have taken Premier
Wade’s house at Wahroonga. They already lived
at Wahroonga, but wanted a thorough change of
air, so took another house in the same neighbor-
hood.
No wonder some of the girls in the train of the
“ Merry Widow ” fretted and fumed at the delay
m exchanging their “Widow” frocks for the
magnificences of “The Duchess of Dantzic.”
Those who mum in the co. of Julius Knight do
have a chance now and then of queening it in a
“costume play”; but the chance doesn’t often
come to the “ Royal Comics.” “ The Duchess,”
however, is a costume play and an opera
in one; and when Papillon Gouriet, the Court
milliner, tells Duchess Florence Young that her
Court train had been marked down to 600 francs,
even if you had forgotten just how much
a franc was, you felt sure it was a bar-
gain at the money. Tiny Betty Ohls, in the
cutest little bonnet—quite a near approach to the
poke—wasn’t grown-up enough to be allowed a
train, so she made up for it by wearing the
smartest gown of the lot. It was a good while
before it started to be a frock; but when it
did start it went on quite satisfactorily to Miss
Betty’s toes. And even those who saw the
“Merry Widow” waltz didn’t realise how daintily
those toes could ripple until they saw Miss Ohls
dance an accompaniment to her own vivacious
song, “Le Petit Caporal.”
Many first-nighters—the real “ steadies ’’—were
at “The Duchess of Dantzic” on Saturday night.
The Arthur Allens and a big party, some Markses,
some Kellys, the P. H. Mortons, MissE. Walker,
the Taylor-Youngs, Mrs. Thorne (who a few
weeks ago was supposed to be sick unto death),
Justice Cohen (whose spouse has just returned from
the Bull’s Eye of the Empire), and the McQuades.
It was in the McQuades’ house beautiful on New
Year’s Eve that Danilo Higginson sprained one of
his valuable feet. His extremity was the under-
study O’Connor’s opportunity. And he took it at
about ten minutes’ notice in such style as to war-
rant J.C.W.’s public acknowledgment from be-
hind the footlights.
Miss Constance Clyde, the Maorilander, who is in
the forefront of the battle for woman’s suffrage in
London, has composed a battle hymn—“ Fight On”
for the Cause. It has been set to music, and 'suf-
fragettes sing it whilst facing fearful odds of
massed police and House of Commons architecture.
Ihe physical energy of the three Australasians—
Mrs. Martell, Miss Muriel Matters and Miss
Clyde is a good advt. for this country. It breeds
energy. Two of the three are brightly yellow-
haired, and are professional elocutionists.
Miss Close, winner in the English Beauty Con-
test, has appeared at the Queen’s Hall, London,
as a singer. A very small warble would justify
the winner of a prize for loveliness in going on
the stage.
Julius Knight, mime, has rented the abode of
Tom Ewing, Knight and M.P., for some months
to come. Wycherly is the name of the said abode,
and it is on the North Shore. He has side-stepped
the servitor difficulty by borrowing a couple of
the highly-trained and skilled retainers of Mrs.
Iveily, of Clenyarrah. The Glenyarrah lady pro-
poses to vegetate in the mountainous parts of this
State till the return of her lord and boss, and so
will not need all her servants herself. One of the
first rules of the game of vegetation is that the
vegetator shall do the major part of his or her
washing-up in person.
While on the subject of the Kelly family, it may
be noted that the Willies of that ilk are settling
in this c >ty for a space. They have taken Eynes-
bury, the Goulds’ place, and as soon as they
manage to corral the herd of servitors which that
extensive barrack requires to nullify the daily
toil of the indigenous spider, they will move in
and start housekeeping.
tt Barling, Darling,” he pleaded passionately,
say, oh say you love me.” .From “Mrs.
Manners Chauffeur,” now running in one of the
oydney dailies. It was the chauffeur speaking.
He has come into fiction with the motor-car, and
is mostly a belted earl in disguise. That’s because
fie s new yet. Perhaps coachmen talked that way
in fiction when coachmen were new. At least they
would have done so had there been any fiction in
the early coachy’s days.
What was written on the piece of paper that
the contractor found in the tin of sovereigns ?
In England—supposing the treasure had been
found in that Land of Ned—a large competition
would by this time be raging. As it happens,
the discovery was made at Parramatta, in the Ma
State, during the demolition of the house wherein
dwelt the Rev. Samuel Marsden, in the dusty
long ago. Ihe contractor told his story dramati-
cally :
My pickhead happened to fall off, and in stooping to
get it my eye fell on what looked like a baking-powder
tin, just under the joist. I picked the tin up, and was
about to throw it to my mate when I noticed that it was
rather heavy. A gentleman named Ward was watching
operations. He saw me pick up the tin. I took the lid
ij 11 ron k bun. On top was a piece of cheesecloth,
old and worn, and underneath a piece of brown paper.
On removing them I beheld gold sovereigns. I imme-
diately replaced the lid, and put the tin in my trousers
pocket. When by myself I emptied the sovereigns out.
At the bottom of the tin was a piece of paper with writ-
ing upon it. I read it and then placed it in the fire, and
to make sure that it would not blow about I ground the
remains into the earth w'ith my boot- The empty tin is
now 20ft. down the well, and the sovereigns are in my
pocket. No one will know how many there are, and no
one-willknow what was written on‘the piece of paper
They are my property, as I bought everything about the
building.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Sydney Evening News had a rush of
Stinking Fish to the head the other day and held
forth thus :
It appears that the Federal Government intends to use
the language test not only as a pretext for keeping
Chinese out of Australia, but also as a reason for deport-
ing' them when here. Chinese who are suspected of being
escaped stowaways will be questioned as to their know-
ledge of modern Greek, or Swedish, or some other
language, and if they cannot answer they will be politely
conducted outside Australia, and warned not to come
back. Now, it must be remembered that our language
test is a bit of diplomatic fraud. We profess ourselves as
drawing no color line, but we are anxious as to the
academic accomplishments of our immigrants. Conse-
quently when a Chinese or a Japanese comes along we
ask him something in Chocktaw or Arabic, and when he
fails to understand our cultured Custom House officers
we express our regrets that he is not up to the standard
of this land of learning, and turn that immigran t back.
Of course the News oould hardly have failed to
know that it was lying—that no immigrants are
examined in “Chocktaw” (with or without a
“ k ”) or Arabic or any save a European language.
And it may surprise the News to learn that
Austrian and Swiss are never used for examina-
tion purposes, nor, for that matter, are Cockney
or Spartan or the Kailyard language ; so even in
the matter of European speech things are not
pushed to the utmost. When next the News feels
an attack of Stinking Fish comirig on it should
pause and consider these facts.
The energy which the new Australian
Government has put into the search for Asiatic
stowaways is producing remarkable results. The
finding of 31 illicit Chows in two ships, the
Eastern and the Courtfield, was a notable haul,
though the depressing fact remains that another
31 or 62 may not have been discovered, and may
have got ashore. Still under the new Act two
finds like these, will make the ships liable for
£3lOO of penalties, and as shipowners don’t like
to pay £3lOO, and as it seems impossible to prevent
the Chinese seamen, stewards, stokers, etc.,
smuggling in their fellow-countrymen, the almost
certain result will be that the pig-tailed mariner
will lose his job—and serve him right. But it
isn’t only the Chow stowaway who has to be
guarded against. One recent case at Hongkong—
only one ease—involved the production in evi-
dence of 150 forged certificates and bogus
naturalisation papers. These represent a stupend-
ous trade in illicit Chow’ immigrants quite apart
from those who are hidden in the coal bunkers,
and those who are run ashore at night on the
undefended, unpatrolled North Australian coast.
The S. M. Herald lately dug out a corres-
who said he badly wanted a plebiscite in
JN.o.W. re Freetrade and Protection. It is a
really great idea. If N.S.W. were assured that,
provided it gave its vote for Freetrade, it would
get the real article —no more Protective duties on
beer and wine and sugar and tobacco and biscuits
and confectionery, and so on, as in Reid’s day ;
and no differential railway and wharfage rates in
favor of local produce ; and no discrimination in
the way of postal rates in favor of local news-
papers; and no bonuses (mostly paid by the other
States) on N.S.W. iron, but just bare, naked,
plain horrible Freetrade—N.S.W. would fly
from the thing in horror. And if the State were
assured that, supposing it returned its six Free-
trade Senators just once more, it would get real
complete Freetrade, Jawbone Neild and Gould
and Soapy Gray and Walker and the rest of that
crowd would probably not get ten votes apiece.
It hnn?™f o lV he chi ! f weapon in the Beauty Armory.
oerZ/ Iln K®. W f° rSt o Sk L", ln one month and creates
Valazp TTerlmi 6 g Uty s ' 6s. 6d., and 6d. postage.
\vholp<?nmp a P er^e °t skin cleanser, pure and
Pore O.V?P ’an • ? oSted - Valaze Blackhead and Open
posted vklaze Sno llll / r - emedy of instant effect, 2s. lOd.
posted. Valaze Snow Lotion, an outdoor beautv soecialtv
6d K voscLT d tched * ki ns.. cools and refreshes. 6d.^
?^ b '"m"oS£'slSs; Sfe.: 58 K “ «~s


HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS, WATCHMAKERS, SILVERSMITHS.
m
New Fashionable
“DENI 8AIIT0IR "
NEOK ORNAMENTS
In a variety of designs.
As Illustrated,
Diamonds mounted
In Platinum
£24
lit Case.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD.,
are showing
the most Up-to-date Stock
of DIAMOND and GEM
ORNAMENTS in
Australia.
Inspeotlon Invited.
Showrooms Upstairs
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
118 Queen Street, Brisbane; and at London.
sfd
The Very Thing
The Old Folk Like
If you want to make your old folk a present that will be
highly appreciated, you could not choose anything better than an
Edison Phonograph. Elderly people have not the same oppor-
tunities of hearing good music as have the young, but they
revel in it just the same.
With an Edison in the house they will be able to have a grand
time. All the old songs that charmed them in days gone by are
available on the Edison—sung by the world’s best artists. And
plenty of good, wholesome, hearty laughs are sure to follow the
reproduction of many of the Edison Records.
Write us, and we will send you a full list of machines and
records and the name of your nearest dealer. You can then
call on him and hear how pure is the tone of this famous sound-
reproducer.
An Edison Phonograph.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OP AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Va
The NEW YEAR
and
Brooke’s Lemos
(Sweetened Lemon Squash).
Every year the sales of “ Lemos ” increase. We are going
to make 1909 a record for increased sales. “Lemos” is the
foremost summer drink, and it will be kept in the lead by its
purity, its excellent keeping qualities, and its exclusive flavor.
sf
“ Razor, Sir ? ” “ Yes, A METROPOIE.”
To be had only at Hotel Metropole Hairdress-
ing Saloon. Price tO/6 ; Pair in Case, 21/-;
Metropole Strop, 7/6 (all guaranteed) post
free. Gentlemen visiting town can be made
look toney in the above saloon. Facial Massage
a speciality. C. P. MOORE,
6B PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
5/- WortH POST CARDS for 1/- Post Free, 1/3.
>5O Beautiful Post Cards which would cost one penny to threepence in any store in Australia
todav We have determined to reduce our mammoth stock, and advertise our Business by
giS'you 50 Cards for 1/- The biggest bargain ever offered. Cheaper and superior to
stationery. Will give you satisfaction or return you the money. Every day we are mailin B
repeat orders. Send your order to-day, direct to us and save money.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO., Dept. B.
Post Card Publishers and Importers,
192-194 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
sfd
OSTRICH PLUfIBS
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address .
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourko and Bwanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
• >-*■s ' - ; ’Y :
3
OC
Si
w
« JS
fcl
2:
2:
06
-
FROM
i 11.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY „
DINING ROOM TABLE
FROM
5.11.5.
WRITE for free illustrated catalogue
AiCocn&C° 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
raILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor I
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
*
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
We Guarantee the PLUM Razor
For TWO years we guarantee and keep in order any
PLUM Razor we sell. That guards you against dis-
appointments and means an exchange if unsatisfactory.
YOU can’t do better.
Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 16/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Single Razor In Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
Price 10/6
ANYWHERE IN AUS-
TRALASIA, POST FREE.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize MedalB>i
England,
Works i Birmingham,
sfd
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
[ of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.


CREME SIMON
CREME SIMON gives health and beauty
to the skin, softening and clarifying the
complexion. It is not a cosmetic or a
make up, but a delicately-perfumed- pre-
paration which gives to the skin a fresh-
ness and fineness of grain which will with-
stand the hottest suns and most trying
winds. Its regular use perpetuates
beauty and
PRESERVES THE
COMPLEXION.
OOW disheartening- to spend perhaps months on a
1 1 dainty piece of Embroidery work to find the
result is crude because you have not been able to
obtain the right shades of silk. Every varying color
grade, from the palest to the deepest tints, may be
had in Carlson Currier Silks. Write for free illus-
trated Brochure, “Embroidery Art.” Sold by
leading Stores. CARLSON CURRIER CO.
(of San Francisco), THE BLOCK, MELBOURNE. [1
m
"The
Corset
for
CORSETS
Because they more effectually meet all
the conditions essential to the wearing
of the newest of Fashion’s fads and
fancies, and are, therefore, recom-
mended by Fashion’s leading authori-
ties. Beautifully designed by the most
skilful of French Corsetieres,, and
thoroughly tailored ; every pair pos-
sesses the graceful lines and curves that
are synonymous with a charmingly
perfect figure. Fit you like a glove—
yet for comfort, stylishness and service
the P.D. CORSET is absolutely un-
rivalled. See that Trade Mark is on
every pair ; it is a guarantee of Quality
—Flexibility—Reliability.
Only First-Class
Drapers and Storekeepers
Stock
“P.D
Trade Mark
5?
CORSETS
£T
Rtt
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly!
sfd
The Tyre of -
Never-Failing Excellence.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 4, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik, —
A very sane feature of the season’s sea-siding
hangs out its holiday shingle at Sandringham— a
salt-water suburb about 12 miles from Melbourne.
Hatches of shop-girls, tied to the city except for
T“ d t OU i- d& l ho f™ ay or so ’ have taken cottages
ear the beach. They go up every morning to
town to toil in the heat, and they bolt back in the
evening. Ihere are 30 in one quite big cottage,
and 15 in another. They cook and “do”
for themselves. According to the criticism
?« , t " e , local , tradespeople, they are likely to
do for themselves finally per medium of
indigestion. The local greengrocer lady has
convulsions of bottled laughter every time
the batch, or the shopping section of the batch,
enters her premises. Some of the members of the
sisterhood don t know a bean from a berry. Not
having the remotest acquaintance with vegetables
in their raw state, their methods of cooking are
original. It sounds surprising, but it isn’t.
Damsels of this cheerful type bundle off to “ busi-
ness as soon as they can legally leave school.
In every big store there are miniature misses
scarcely beyond babyhood, but with the brisk
mannerisms of the most groWn-up Gertrude of the
glove counter—with their infinitesimal skirts
hung at exactly the most modish flare, their
waists drawn in to the correct measurement,
weaung the regulation shape whalebone and steel
armor, and with their hair pompadour or in puffs.
Lhey are smart from the top hair-pin to the boot-
sole ; but they can t tell the fire hole in the stove
from the griller. Pood they seeserved in a ready-
to-eat condition, but whether the chop grows on a
tree they hardly know, and how to boil the pine-
apple they know not at all, nor can they tell when
the lamb is ripe or where the corn-cob gambols in
the Spring.
These Sandringham visitresses are creating
quite a disturbance in the lazy lives of those who
101 l by the beach. Their hired cottages have a
part-ownership in a couple of bathing boxes, of
which the men folk in the vicinity were wont to
have possession in the early morning hours.
Hut things are very different just now. Men
turning up for their before-breakfast dip find the
boxes always occupied by successive hordes of
Girl. Ihe men tried getting up at daylight and
sending an advance scout at four o’clock in the
morning, an advance Gertie was already on
the scene, bo the lordly sharers of the boxes are
to doubt their ascendancy and elevation,
and Man is at a discount. As a matter of fact
Man often is.
The world in general is clad mostly in a bathing-
suit and a brown skin. It dons the occasional
dnsguise of conventional dress to look in at a hot
office, mop its brow, drink several lengthy cool-
nesses and murmur “That can stand over.” The
female of the married community spends her time
pinning up the abbreviated gear of her progeny,
that the said progeny may paddle in top-heavy
joy in the illimitable wet. The vast army of
bummer Girl sets her sunbonnet to catch the holi-
day clerk who puts his whole soul into his scarlet
.cummerbund. The fat, dripping joys of mixed
bathing rage unceasingly, and the wary shark
waits his jSew Year dinner. But in the city there
is no stability in anything— not even in the butter ;
neither is there any method.
The honorable Honor of the Dudley family is
just recovering from her honorable attack of ap-
pendicitis. This sort of thing breaks into hot-
weather arrangements. I know several worried
inotners whose offspring chose the moment of de-
parture to the surf-side to develop scarlatina or
measles, and a nurse moaned to me, the other
day, of the terrible number of deaths in the pri-
vate hospital where she spreads her feathery
wings. “I don’t know when they are going to
stop, she said, irritably. “ I’m just due for my
vacation. But these dead hospital folks were
everyday people. Countess people
i OU I. C a ° ove su °h inconvenient weaknesses.
Anyhow, the honorable Honor is progressing
favorably. b
Macedon, the fashionable hill favored by society
took out its New Year’s Day at the Hanging Rock
races. I his function is one of the few in Victoria
to match the usual station races in the big spread
of N.S. W. runs. The fashionables motor or drive
from the four corners of the earth, and the farm
folk get up at three in the morning, milk the
premature cow, and get through the lengthy
work of feeding the various quadrupeds; then pack
fat hampers and trundle through the dust behind
steady old Sam, who plop-plops along with quite
a giddy holiday gleam at the rear of his winkers
.Everybody who owns a baby brings it to help in
strewing the ground near the course with nice
squelchy fat little humans, soft to the tread. The
Carmichaels are still at the Macedon State
humpy, and they motored over. Also, the
Wertheims and the Whitings, and other
wealthy ones whose palaces and gardens sprawl
over the summit. The Horsham Youngs, with
their quiver-full of pretty daughters, have taken
possession of the Gillespies’ house at Macedon.
Ihe girls rode over as only Australian
country-bred girls can ride, with straight backs
like palings. The Dudleys motored up from Mel-
bourne, and The Dudley left the sumptuous spread
of turkey and truffles, and waded among baby-
swarming camps, begging billy tea. He is such a
distressing Dudley—he will do untoward things.
The people picnic largely at Hanging Rock—the
racecourse is some decided distance away on a
plateau m the dip of the hills. Some of these
days the Rock, which hangs by the skin of its
lichens to a great volcanic mass, will crash down
and scoop the whole boiling. All the land round
the Rock is volcanic—dead presumably—and much
of the road gives out a muffled hollow sound to the
padding of hoofs.
The advance guard of the annual shallow-water
shark made his hungry appearance at a favorite
tot. Kildabeacht’othernight. Theannual idiots who
clothe their nakedness with a blissful belief in the
deep-sea character of Mr. Shark, were out for their
swim, while less trusting ones dabbled dully in the
sand ripples. Ihen Pa Shark incautiously showed
his hn. He was a fathom long, and swam into
less than a yard of water, where naked babies had
been splashing and paddling for hours. He did
not get anyone this time ; but sharks have patience
when they are after idiots.
Queenscliff, of hawty tone, gave two dances as
its coatrilMaion to the season’s festival. Queens-
chti and Point Lonsdale stand in icy elevation as
parts where society condescends to inhale its
summer dose of sea air. Gen.evieve, of Toorak,
C j e< u' S her most dreamful toilettes, her mamma
and her abbreviated bathing gear, and departs
for a sunburned mermaiden frivol, while the
youth in immaculate flannels (who would
sooner be found dead than without socks and
tie that match) follows languidly. Royal Yacht
Club men fairly own the peninsula. Much of the
loorakety element has cottages—dinky little
shilly chalets on Shelly Beach.
A swagger element rushes to The Ozone and
The Grand—two hostels that battle for the dis-
tinction of hotel de luxe. The Ozone scarcely
knows itself this season with the departure of the
Widow Baillieu, who has practically been in
possession since the landing of Flinders or Bat-
man. Interested visitors wonder if the departure
augurs a climax in the warm courtship of the
charming widow by a knight of acrobatic fame.
The Ozone holds its squashed quota this season
nevertheless. It is in the hands of one Muhle-
bache and his wife. The girl element visiting
this hotel lured extra-busy men down with a
special boat, a dance, and a private view
of the approaching New Year. The mermaids
of the _ opposition hostel put all their energies
into a rival hop. The affairs eventually turned into
one big spree. Johnnies would book dances in
one ballroom, leave a space or so, and rush for the
prettiest girl over the way. Things got so mixed
at last that they could only be satisfactorily sorted
on the moonlit beach to the distant music of jam-
tins, banged in worship of the season. The Sayo-
nara crew (being a species of uniformed mermen)
got the pick of the dances. By the way, what
obscure meaning is conveyed when yachting men
dance in their caps ? This has no relation to a
man dancing on his hat. Several girls showed
indignation at the hatted crew, and others pre-
sumed that since the all-elevated Sayonara cele-
brities did so, it must be “ the thing ” or “form,”
or something of equal tone, like spurs in military
dress. It’s my firm belief that military men sleep
in their spurs.
Percy Miller (amidst tumultuous applause) was
well to the fore at the Ozone, while his tall,
graceful wife and others were content to take
things quietly. Other sedate and proper persons
were the youthful Barrister Stan Lewis and his
wife, and the Ballarat Colonel Williams, who
stalked in gaunt seriousness through the frivols.
At the grand dance, Mrs. Police-Magistrate
Morrison made a chaperone-in-chief. Geelong
goes to Queenscliff to a society man—or woman.
Another Geelong celebrity, Miss Hodges, rang a
belle act and made a corner in men, especially
Sayonara mariners. Miss Horwitz, another
pretty girl, found things humming. Mrs. Mel-
bourne Grand Hotel Burgess and Mrs. “Buckley”
Nunn came along. The affair was fancy dress.
There was a superfluity of “nurses,” the cos-
tumes evidently being borrowed for the evening
from the legitimate owners. The children of the
community had an excellent innings until an
elastic bedtime. Host Klugg, masquerading as a
bloated and overgrown Teddy Bear, played the
Pied Piper act with the shrieking progeny.
Even with the children trampled to death or
put to bed, there was the biggest Auld Lang Syne
stunt on record. It was about 150-throat-power,
with twice that number of hands joined in one
„ wliirly circle.
Another “ among-those-present ” at the dance
was a weary-eyed man who arrived without bag-
gage and with a thirst just as the year dawned.
He explained in gasps that he had come from
Sorrento for a night’s sleep. Sorrento, that gets
swamped with canvas in the summer, was the
howling centre of tin-kettling high jinks. Tbait’s
how the New Year found our relaxed Upper Ten.
Give a community a picnic basket and a bath-
ing suit and holiday weather, and the earth may
collapse, or suns break up, or Bent people mount
a tottering throne, without causing them pertur-
bation. It is amazing the slight and casual in-
terest taken by folk in general in the biggest
earthquake on record since about B.C. 1000.
“ Oil, the poor things!” says the newspaper reader,
and goes on building his sand-castle or prod-
ding the sand-crab hole with his bare
big toe. Yet the awful devastation is on
the broad sea-highway, on the main road where
our English and French and German mailboats
are passing almost every day. if there
happened a fresh “settling” of the submerged
layer of planet, and the suction drew a boat to
disaster—well, perhaps a few rolls of calico might
get lost, or a bag of mails or someone’s aunt might
get drowned. And then there would be a
how-d’-ye-do.
Enthusiastic Girl, with her barracking and
lunqh basket, manages to pack the seats at inter-
state cricket, even though she is away at the
seaside in quantities, or flirting in hundreds in
the shadow of the hills. The fight for the
Sheffield Shield is merely a side issue. The men
who play are working solidly for places in the
next Test team, and their best Ethels are watch-
ing their endeavors with anxious eyes.
The battle about snagging and clearing the
upper suburban reaches of the Yarra has attained
the dimensions of & scrimmage. The half-a-
hundred or so owners of motor launches got tired
of shaking sleepy powers and getting little more
than irritable snores in reply. So the motor men
rose up in wrath and perspiration, and, waving
broken propeller blades, asked, in loud, insistent
voices, “Who is responsible for the matter?”
They took the sleepy powers by the scruff of the
hind leg, and knocked their heads hard against
Acts of Parliament. The result up to the moment
is that a new Act will probably be necessary to
determine just which Board can be forced to pan
out sufficient of taxed people’s money to move the
submerged dead tree. The facts and the demands
and the river-men’s wrath are dumped in ferocious
turn on the chest of each fat Board. Each fat
Board wriggles uncomfortably and slips the
weight off the chest of its responsibility. The
demand has gone the round of them all, and
the responsible one cannot be placed. The Board
of Works remarks officially and pompously that
“ water supply and sewerage for the metropolis are
our primary functions.” The Harbor Trust has
control as far as Queen’s Bridge. The Railways
have some liability because of river bridges, but
the matter of direct responsibility is knocked
about like a ping-pong ball.
This game of tennis reminds me of the matter
of a deserted mining shaft near Healesville—a
hilly summer resort that is almost a suburb of
Melbourne. The shaft is 100 ft. or so from the
main road, and is covered by ferns and creepers.
It was discovered some months ago by an acci-
dent—or by a dog, which is the same thing.
A pet canine was lost for days. Its howls at last
attracted passers-by, and the beast was discovered
in this hole, some 20ft. below the surface. The
owner of the dog advised the council. The coun-
cil, after consideration, declared the matter to lie
with the Mining Board. After delay, the Mining
Board sent an inspector, who did not see that it
was the Board’s business. This summer the shaft
is still unfilled, and waiting for victims —a trap
snugly covered by the quick-growing bracken.
Local shipping people are swearing all round in
good, wholesome language. A drunk and dis-
orderly wind caught our bay for an hour about
6 a.m. the other morning. It shot a small matter
of a laden 12,000-ton boat out to the length of its
moorings, and a slick crew only saved it by drop-
ping double anchor. An irate captain is blaming
everything from Heaven to the Port Melbourne
pier piles, which snapped off like so many carrots.
Small craft were turned topsy-turvy, and coastal
boats spent valuable hours sorting out capsized
yachts. The wind was considerate only in arriv-
ing at a time when the average yachtsman was in
bed—so the boats turned turtle at their moorings
and caused swears instead of deaths.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Skinner called together
800 good and true inhabitants to a musical even-
ing and supper at South Melbourne Town Hall,
t’other Tuesday, to celebrate a double victory for
the rising generation of old "Emerald Hill.” The
Albert Park State school secured the premiership
for football, and the Eastern Road State school cap-
tured the cadets’ premiership and the Sargood
Shield, which meant holding first place for eight
years. So South Melbourne came together to do
itself proud. The hall was beautifully decorated
for the occasion. Mrs. Skinner, who looked the
handsomest dame present, trailed a beautiful
gown in ivory tones of ninon, and carried smiles
and welcome around. Mrs. James, the pretty
wife of Captain James (who taught the thin
brown line how to shoot), helped the hostess with
her guests.
ri Gold and silver formed the order of the night.
The Mayor presented each little kicker with a
gold medal, the gift of Skinner the Bountiful,
and the captain was presented with the Cup.
Then followed the presenting of the Sargood
Shield for all time to Captain James and his little
shooters. Furthermore, Mrs. Skinner gave three
silver cups to the three nippers who hit most often
the bull’s eye for the glory of Australia. And,
finally, Mr. Skinner presented Captain James with
a handsome silver cigar case from the boys. It
was about the most give-and-take affair that the
hospitable sport has ever catered for.
The two pantomimes rush along with breathless
success. At Her Majesty’s, Fanny Dango adds
an abbreviated dress and a surf song, with a pink-
legged chorus of surf-bathers, to the already fat
programme. At the Rupert Clarke-Meynell-
Gunn combination there has been a new Cinder-
ella. A daintily pretty girl, Tina Lincoln, took
sister Ruth’s part for a spell. Meredith Meredro,
the prince of the subtle curved legs, gets in good
work with a song with a reflector accompaniment.
The stage and theatre are dark as a dungeon, and
the liine-lighted, glowing lady stands out like a
good deed m a bad world. But, on the whole,
the original ‘‘business” at both pantos, is still
sufficient to tire the jaw of the guffawing audience.
From “ Rosna,” who groans in Adelaide
Their Exes, have finally and irrevocably left us. They
sailed in the Omrah on New Year’s Eve, and the whole
official earth climbed over the Outer Harbor and waved
its hanky in farewell. Our standing army got its gun
from the left-hand corner of the wardrobe in the spare
bedroom, and flew to guard their Exes, from the dangers
of the perilous journey up the platform. The rust
was rubbed from the cannon at the fort, and the authori-
ties fired off the dangerous weapons several times. Miss
Clowes, the cousin who has been spending a year or two at
the Residence, went off likewise. Sheseemed rather relieved
to get away. She’s a bored-looking lady who had every
opportunity to have a jolly and hilarious time but never
seemed to grasp it. Captain Boddam Whettam also went
off. In fact, nearly everything and everybody went off—
except Mr. Baillie Hamilton, the private sec*. He is left
at the Residence “ to he called for.”
His Ex. was a careful man. He never quite forgot that
the first letter he received as Governor of South Oss. was
surcharged 4d. It was the letter from the Government
containing his patent of Governorship, or whatever you
call the thing, and it was under-stamped.
Glenelg had its usual sandy festivity on the 28th to cele-
brate the historic fact that, 71 years agone, a few people
stood under a gum tree and announced that this was the
Province of South Australia. The H. W. Varleys, who
still Mayor the place, had the usual Commemoration
luncheon, and, because the pioneers are mysteriously
increasing every year, the Town Hall was packed
to bursting point. As was the case last year,
the women pioneers shared the food ; hut they were en-
tertained by the Mayoress in the Institute, so escaped
the speeching. The eldest guest was 98, and there was
quite a crowd of a mere 90 and over. One dame of 93
stipulated that she must be allowed to wear her old blue
German apron, and wear it she did.
Several Adelaide folk burst into book form this'Christ-
mas. Mrs. Ellis Rowan, who painteth the lily, has
written “ Bill Baillie,” being- the adventures of some
native beastie or other, and has illustrated it in color. In
the letterpress she was assisted by journalist Winifred
bcott. Then A. O. Thomas has committed “ The Soulful
Joys of Tramming,” a last knock at Adelaide’s chief
claim to eminence. Lastly young editor A. K Martin of
the Gadfly, has produced “The Voyage of the Whoop ”
a satire on all Adelaide’s pet celebrities, illustrated with
sundry pictures of the victims by Will Donald.
The overworked Premier Price and his watchful missus
are going down to Robe in a few days to get a rest. With
no Governor and no Premier to look after things good-
ness knows what South Oss will be doing. You mav
exc^n & developments an} 7 moment.
The latest game of the Adelaide University boy is to
go fruit-picking at Renniark by way of gentle recreation.
A big baton has taken its tent, and is having a healthful
vacation, and incidentally earning a few coppers to heln
it up Parnassus. 1 p
The latest engagement fixed up is that of the Mortimer
Giles youngest daughter Agnes to Walter Law Smith
son of the “Dicky” Smiths, of Glenelg. ’
Editor G. L. Burgoyne, of the Labor Herald and “ G
Elburg of many Bulletin and other yarns, employed
Mr. Hymen, the other day, to knot him with Miss Louie
m° le £ era P afceUr , lnutnmer - It happened in the
pretty little chapel attached to St. Peter’s College and
the ceremony was quite private, being witnessed by a few
relatives and one Mouse. This same St. Peter’s is'one of
the most picturesque old bits of architecture in South
Oss—like an ancient castle in a young forest of big trees
As for the chapel—well, in future, every time I get mar-
decided J . fc shall be done there or not at all.
Back from jaunting in Europe come Mrs. Alexander
r Mamma nay is the second wife
Gosil f Ue £i ll ' de L and a daughter of the late Dr.
S ,e ls /i h >ef!y known as the writer of a personal
and therefore highly entertaining book of reminiscences
w,X"^M fan vf rU "V" the fandl Y- William Hay? who
« Hemd ge of Reality Swamp,” is of the same clan.
Mrs. Doubleday, mamma of the clever Leila, has been
having a sick tmie; Whilst holidaying in the mountains
at Ausse, m Austria, a diphtheria microbe laid her low
fiddle and small brother had to be
packed back to Vienna out of infection’s way.
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
THE ROYAL COMIO OPERA COMPANY
with appear in the Romantic Opera,
THE DUCHESS OE DANTZIC
Prices as Usual. Plans at Paling's.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : C. WILLIAMSON.
JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK,
Wilson Barrett’s Dramatic Masterpiece,
THE SIGN OE THE CROSS.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as MARCUS SUPERBUS.
Miss BEATRICE DAY as MERCIA.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACII.
DAILY AT 2,
Pantomime oe ROBINSON CRUSOE.
LAST 3 NIGHTS of EDWIN GEACH’S COMPANY in
THE WOMAN PAYS.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 9, EAST. LYNNE.
35., 25., k Is. POPULAR PRICES. Is., 25.. & 3s.
Geo. Marlow, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : Mr. FRANK MUSGROVE.
Sub-Lessee and Manager: Mr.- WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S EAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, including Australia’s Talented
Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN, in
THE GAYEST OE THE GAY.
Plan at Elvy’s. Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is.
-yOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 9,
SPECIAL CONCERT BY
MARIE N ARELLE,
ASSISTED BY
MALCOLM McEACHERN, Basso.'
WILLIAM MURDEN, Tenor.
HILDA THORNDIKE, Pianiste.
CHRISTIAN HELLERMANN, Organist.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
N. F. lIANDRICKS, Manager,
THE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s. 6d., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
JHE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at S ; Matinees, Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
“ Back to the Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is, & 6d Popular Prices. 6d, Is, & 2s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and' SATURDAY.
Mr. TOMMY BURNS, Wonderfully Clever Athlete.
AMALIA and LEONORA, Continental Equilibrists.
CRISTOEOLO, Equilibrist Juggler.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Vocal Quartette.
Mr. WILL HAINES. MISS NELLIE MAUNSELL.
MR. CHARLES FANING,
CHARLOTTA and FANING and FANING.
AND ALL OUR GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
PRICES—3s.. 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE LATONAS, American Vaudeville Artists.
GEOFFREYS and BENSON, Sketch Artists.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Comedy Artists and Dancers.
PROFESSOR DUNCAN’S 10 PERFORMING COLLIE
DOGS.
THREE M'GREGORS, Musical Artists.
GEORGE SORLIE, Baton Spinner and Dancer.
Plan at Allan’s. £3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WiLtiAMSOS.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
MR. J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, STELLA GASTELLE,
FANNY DANGO, J. M. CAMPBELL, HARRY SHINE,
and VICTOR LOYDALL.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
success Extraordinary.
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Frank Thornton.
„ T Direction of Edwin Gkach.
OIsLY EIGHT MORE NIGHTS IN MELBOURNE OF
FRANK THORNTON
supported by his NEW LONDON COMPANY,
in the Great Success,
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
FAREWELL FOR EVER TO AUSTRALIA.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s. Booking Fee, Is.
ALBERT CLARK, Acting Manager.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES IHE ™ S V
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturday.
TAIL’S PICTURES.
NONE BUT THE VERY LATEST and FINEST FILMS
DIRECT FROM EUROPE and AMERICA.
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
AND HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices.
Missing Friends.
lURLEY.—JEREMIAH JOSEPH, last
heard of at Lytton, Queensland, in 1900.
Anyone knowing his whereabouts please com-
municate
A. F. HEALY,
G.P.0., SYDNteY.
Denis donovan and timothy dono-
YAN, “Goula,” natives of Rosscarbery,
Co. Cork, Ireland, last heard of at Kimberley,
West Australia, about 20 years ago. Anybody
knowing their whereabouts please communicate
with JEREMIAH DONOVAN, 36 South Dela-
ware Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S. America,
or HERBERT Z. DEANE, Attorney, Clonakitty.
West Australian papers please copy.
IvOOlc Neat oncl Cool
STYLISH SHIRTS
EFFECTIVE PATTERNS
sd
Just
Notice
our
Remark-
able
Special
Offer
sfd
FASHIONABLE COLORINGS.
Cheap, yet of Excellent Quality.
Guaranteed to Wear Well.
Comfort and Tip-Top Appearance
'T'HESE Fine Negligee Shirts are worn by every man who
x wants to look dressy and neat. They are cool for
the summer and keep their nice fresh appear-
ance long after a white shirt would be unwearable.
Worn without a vest, they are stylish and effective. You
won’t see anybody in white shirts this
season. Then look at the price, only 3s. 9d., or Three
- ‘ Shirts for 10s. 6d., carriage paid.
SPECIAL OFFE R.—Three Shirts,
one Wearwite Collar (.wash with a sponge),
any shape, Three Ties, Bows or Scarves, any
pattern, the lot for 15s. (carriage paid.i,
and we will GIVE in a Lucky Shoe Scarf
Pin, a Patent Collar Stud and a Pair of
Sleeve Links. We will forward patterns of
Shirt and Scarf Materials (if desired). If
preferred an Initial Scarf Brooch <any
Single Letter) may be had instead of Lucky
Shoe Pin. Remember, money back if you
are not perfectly satisfied and return the
goods. Send Postal Note of any State to
THE UNION CO.,
299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
sfd
fGoui & Rheumatic
PILLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
FOR COUt and
RHEUMATISM
urn
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
Govit
Pills
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE,
ftLAIR'S COUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS elimi-
"irate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
therefore PERFECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLO EVERYWHERE
at I/I % and 2/9.
BLAtR’B HAVE STOOO
THE TEST OF TIME.
Jumping Mice.
The very newest Novelty out.
Very Amusing and Entertaining
Only 7 d. each op 3 fop
1 s. 3d.
These Mice will JUMP and DANCE about the
table at your bidding in a most astonishing fashion.
Anyone can set them going, and they amuse old and
young, particularly the children, intensely. There are
white rrjice, grey mice and brown ones. The PRICL
is ONLY 7d. each or three different Mice for Is. 3d.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter-st., Sydney
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston — 1 ‘ WEEKLY WORRIES. ”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
m, <%*
m
. ■
Some Woman buys
for every home
and rightly so, as she goes more thoroughly into the matter than a man. The latter,
especially if he is a busy man, is inclined to take very little trouble, but the woman is
different—she wants to know the why and wherefore of everything; so that it is good policy
for the woman to do the baying. A glance at our daily batch of country letters, or a glance
into our establishment, amply proves this, and at the same time proves that Stewart
Dawson’s has the confidence of a big percentage of the womenfolk of New South Wales.
We attend to their wants by mail or in person promptly and carefully, and deliver all their
orders free of charge. We will be glad to post our Catalogue on receipt of a post-card.
03332 —15ct. Gold Pearl and
Fashoda Ruby Set Brooch
Pendant, £4/15/-
H7o76—Pearl and Tourmaline Set
15ct. Gold Brooch Pendant, £7/15/-
H 2220 —loot. Gold Pearl
and Amethyst Set Gold
Pendant, £3/IS/-
03331—Pearl and Tourma-
line Set, 15ct. Gold Urooch
Pendant, £2/15/=
1907—Pearl and Tourmaline Set
15et. Gold Brooch Pendant, £4/4/-
& £5 ; with Green Sapphires, £5/15/-
9ct. Gold, Set Pearls and Amethyst,
£l/17/6 ; with Pink Tourmaline, £3/15/-
C 333 and Tourma-
line Set 15ct. Gold Brooch
Pendant, £3/10/-
C3679—15et. Gold Fine
Enamel and Pearl Pendant,
with Pink Tourmaline
Centre. With Platinum
Chain for Neck, in case,
£7/10/-
H7o7B—Pearl and Tourmaline Set
15et. Gold Brooch, Pendant, £7/15/-
C 3680 —Fine Pearl and
Enamel Pendant, Amethyst
Centre, with Platinum
Necklet, in case, £6/10/-
GBB7C —15ct. Gold, Fine
Pearl and Amethyst Set
Pendant, £5/5/-
H44o3—Pearl Set
Pendant,
9ct. Gold, £l/5/=
G27o2—Pearl Set
Heart,
9ct. Gold, 17/6
15et., £l/2/6
Hls49—Pearl & Amethyst
Set 9ct. Gold Pendant,
£2/10/=
15ct. Gold, £4.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD
S TBftNDCOR WS , otW( , F c T
Solicitor Frank Brennan had hard luck at
the Vic. election. He got the Labor nomination
for the Melbourne seat, but was rejected because
he hadn’t joined his branch in a formal manner,
though the Labor League had taken his sub-
scription all right. As things turned out he must
have gained the seat easily, for votes that went
to the Bentite solicitor, Hamilton, or to Boyd in
preference to the victorious Port Melbourne
butcher, must have gone to him. And Labor
wants a lawyer or two so badly that it might have
strained a point.
“Melba”: One disconcerting feature of
the Victorian elections is the number of political
prevaricators unearthed by T. Bent. Tommy’s
record in this line eclipses even Roosevelt’s.
According to Tommy, Watt is “a liar and a
sneak”; Murray is'“the biggest liar in Vic-
toria”; Boyd is “an unprincipled perverter of
the truth ”; and Holden “a political Ananias.”
Keast is “ an unmitigated liar ” ; and Mackinnon,
Kirton, and Prendergast are all plain or colored
liars in the version of Tommy. Even “ Holy
.Tim ” McCutcheon and Bent’s own pal, Swin-
burne, were apparently suspected by Thomas of
being liars. Plainly veracity has gone from the
land, neither is there any truth in it —except, of
course, at Brighton.


Winchester
Nl v/
mi i f
W§n 111
w,
fy
rZ
mf M
: -h
■ ■ V v j
i \ vj/ '?/ 'SyJjAvV'.'-M’-VhiAi Ay
m* Ui v
ipsm?
:^-aaS
*
“NEW KIVAL”
Loaded Black Powder
“Newßivals”are as per-
fect as brains and in-
genuity, coupled with
first-class materials and
modern methods of
manufacture, can make
them. They are sure
fire, make even pat-
terns, shoot hard and
strong and will stand
reloading. Ask for
“New Rivals” next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS
WZm
*
WBECKED
DIGESTION
What are aching heads, trembling
hands, lost confidence, depression and
sleeplessness, but symptoms of wrecked
digestion ? How can you have good
health, steady nerves, strength' and
freedom from pain, if Indigestion is
poisoning and starving your body ?
The very first step to recovery is
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, a remedy which
will make your stomach do its work.
By ensuring proper digestion, your
blood supply will be purified and en-
riched, and you will again enjoy the
vigour and buoyancy of robust health.
Miss Ida Turner, 64, Baptist Street, Redfern,
N.S.W., writes on July 15th, 1908: “ From
childhood I was delicate, being always sus-
ceptible to chills and indigestion. As I grew into
womanhood my health did not. improve, indi-
gestion remaining my chief trouble. After many
medicines and tonics had failed to relieve me,
Mother Seigcl’s Syrup restored me to splendid
health—in fact, it made a new girl of me.’’
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties,
THE U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop
the most
vicious
dog (or
man)with-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
ment for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/3, orpostfreeanyvvherefor3/-
R\
BOUII
The Searchlight Elec-
tric Pocket Lamp and
Scarf Pin can be used as an
ordinary lamp for lighting: pur-
poses, also as a Novelty Electric
Scarf Pin. The
whole outfit
guaranteed in
perfect working
' order, throwing
a dazzling bright
light. Price,
complete, 2/9,
orpostfree 3/3.
Extra Batteries
for re-charging
lamp //-, or post
free 1/3.
Wholesale and
Retail.
The Joker’s Squirt
Cinematograph.
A real startler. You may have alot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having: a micros-
oopic lens fitted into one end. While the
viotim is absorbed in admiration of the pretty
picture, and turns the button in the con-
fident expectation of seeing: something: in-
teresting:, a spring syringe is brought into
aotion, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carriedin
the vest pocket. Full directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
sfd
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition just published.
The Property of J. H. FOX, Esq.
Subdivision of 6,000 Acres
Dugandan Estate
AND HOMESTEAD (Queensland)
Within a mile of Boonah Railway Station and Township,
69 miles from Brisbane, on the Fassifern Railway Line.
49 Rich Dairy, Lucerne Scrub and Grazing: Farms (13 to 582 Acres) to be sold
by Auction at the Bchool of Arts, Boonah,
MONDAY, FEBRUARY Bth, 1909,
V^\°
GRAND TERMS
20
YEARS
AT
5%
One Tenth Deposit and
NO Payments of Principal
for 2 years from date of Sale
The Dugandan Estate consists of Rich Alluvial Lucerne Flats on
Teviot Brook and other creeks, with absolutely permanent water,
and all grades of Black, Brown, Red and Chocolate Soils. A large
area of newly felled scrub is included, and this, together with most
of the flats, has been planted with Paspalum.
SPECIAL ATTRACTION'S
Charming Homestead with 560 Acres; an improved Dairy Farm in
full profit; several blocks at present under cultivation ; Good Rail-
way facilities; proximity to market; large Co-operative Butter
Factory at Boonah; abundant Rainfall (37in. per annum); estab-
lished Township with 2 Banks, School, Hospital, <Sc.; No Survey
Fees or Compulsory Residence clause; Light Clearing and plenty
of Fencing Material; Typical Lucerne Flats; Rich Scrub Farms
(partly improved); Well Sheltered Ridges; Liberal Options, Large and Small Areas; Large Areas
nnder Paspalum. Every facility for inspection.
SPECIAL NOTE—From the Government Statistics the Dugandan District ranks THIRD in
Agricultural and Dairy Products. Write to-day for illustrated Plan.
ISLES, LOVE & CO., Auctioneers, Queen St., Brisbane, Q.
CAPILLARINE, the
Moustache Producer.
or*
Price 10/6 a Jar
posted to any address
in the World.
SUCCESSFUL CAPILLARINE.
The record of CAPILLARINE’S success in producing permanent
moustaches is not merely on paper.
Hundreds of men are passing you in the street daily who know its
practical value.
Start using it now. You will be rewarded in a few weeks with a
handsome moustache of vigorous growth.
CRAIG A AITKEN,
Established
26 Years.
654 George Street, SydQey.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
sfd
BY
APPOINTMENT
sfd
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
s
OUR MEDICAL BATTERY
IN YOUR HOME.
OTHERS will find in this handy Battery a
great friend in many troubles.
It will cure sick headaches, prevent sleepless
nights, and relieve nervous pains almost at once.
Children’s toothaches and neuralgia it quickly
cures, and gives currents of electricity that promote a
vigorous flow of blood which in turn cures torpid livers
and prevents the catching of epidemics so prevalent
among children.
Anyone can operate it, and the current can be
made sufficient for the strongest man or reduced for
the youngest child.
Nothing to wear out —no risk whatever, and
nothing to spill.
Its use will save you pounds in doctors’ bills.
Send for our Booklet to-day—it is free.
HOME
NEW
MECICAt APPARATUS
w ,tm fIRY BATTERIf
mm.
THE. BATTERY
(complete)
O CI
/ 1
Post Free
JORDAN’S
(late Osborn & Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
pticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Vulcan”: If London experience is any cri-
terion, taxi-cabs hold blissful promise for Sydney or
Melbourne enterprise. A newly-formed London co. has
just put up £200,000 to run 600 cabs. According to the
directors, the average daily earnings of the present-
running London taxi is over £2; but the advent of the
600 extra cabs is expected to reduce this, and the co.
estimates its earnings at 325. 6d. per cab per day. Out
of this come cost of upkeep and running exes. A trade
co. repairs and maintains the cabs at 16s. 6d. per cab per
day. This includes an undertaking to have the cabs in
perfect running order five years hence. Running costs
absorb another Bs. OJd., split between driver’s wages and
petrol; while the redemption money or sinking fund
costs a further 3s. per day. This makes the average
gross exes. 275. Bd. per cab per day, leaving a net profit of
4s. Bd. per cab per day, or £ll7 for the lot, or £42,583
per year —a return of over 20 per cent, on capital. There’s
no doubt as to the taxi’s popularity. From Paris, Berlin,
London and New York comes the same tale of two and
four-wheeled moke-drawn vehicles glued to their stands,
while the taxi is kept busy. Its novelty made it catch
on, and its swiftness and the luxury of its rigidly-fixed
charges have concreted its popularity. You pay for the
distance you go, and you read the distance and the charge
on the taximeter, and whether the driver takes ten
minutes or ten hours to do the distance the charge is the
same. Consequently, the driver keeps one eye ahead
and t’other on the corner policeman, and flies—the more
fares carried the more odd coppers over the legal fare to
be pocketed at the day’s end. Of course, local charges
for upkeep, etc., would be considerably in excess of
London’s, and Sydney’s fancy grades should make cost
of wear and tear a heartbreaking thing ; but even there
the taxi should pay well.
“ Huffin-Gnffin ” : I am a Melbourne worker.
My pay is 12s. a day ; yet I have a continual struggle to
make ends meet. (About 7s. 6d. a month on literature is
my only vice.) I have a wife and four kids. My father
brought up three of us on an average of less than half
12s. a day. I saved money on 6s. a day 20 years ago. I
save none now. What I had has all gone. I have arrived
at the conclusion that the landlord has it. He is
also now taking what I ought to be saving to
live upon by-and-bye, when my nose ahd chin will
draw nearer. I pay 13s. a week house rent. The
landlord has been barracking for Bent lately, hoping to
grind another shilling a week out of me if Bent gets back
to power. At least, I suppose that is what he supported
Bent for : I don’t suppose anybody supports Bent for any-
thing else than for wnat he hopes to make. I complain
to my grocer of high prices. He explains that provisions
are dearer because of high rent —he has to pay more rent
himself and the farmer has to pay more and the manu-
facturer has to pay more, and they all pass as much as
they can of it on to me. The wholesale man tells the
grocer that he must have his rent. The butcher says beef
and mutton were never so dear ; and he mentions high
rent also. The baker says wheat and flour keep up in
price despite good seasons, “ and the rent must be paid,
you know.” The milkman tells the same story. Also
the greengrocer, the fruiterer, the wood and coal dealer,
and all the rest of them. So it seems that lam working
for the landlord from A to Z. I’m tired of it. So I’ve
been trying to get a change of Government \ for when
Bent is up Rent seems to be up.
* * • *
“Stony”: Of all the smiles which the dentist
smiles, his best cash smile is reserved for the humble
serving-wench. William Jumbuck may call in and have
a gold plate fitted, and ask for his bill—for filing pur-
poses. Henry Draper may have sixteen extractions with
chloroform, and nine gold crowns to follow, and forget to
ask for a statement of his account. Herbert Grocer will
insist on local anaesthetics, and be offended if his bill is
sent in inside three months. But plain Gwladys, whom
we call Jane, will save up her wages for six months, and
then “blew" the lot in one wild, joyous burst of new
front teeth, for which she will pay cash on the nail.
Gwladys Jane, otherwise known as Sarah, is, of all tooth-
troubled souls, the dentist’s best-paying customer, and is
welcomed accordingly.
* « * *
“V. Francis,” of Maoriland, tells a sinful tale: —
“Tinned fish, sir, sardines, only half-a-crown a tin ; try
half-a-doz.”
“Go to blazes,” I said. “I’m sick of sardines and
pedlars.”
We were camped out back in the Urewera country, and
pedlars had pestered us three weeks out of every four.
just then one of the old hands came out of his tent.
“ Hi, there 1 ” he shouted, “ got any fish ?”
“Dash tinned fish,” I said to myself as I walked away,
while Jim was calmly buying tins of sardines by the half
dozen.
That night Jitn called me, and as I looked out of the
tent he said, “ Want any sardines?”
“ Blank the asterisk sardines ! ” I said, and turned round
to go back to bunk, when he again sang out, “ Here,
boss, come here for half a mo’. Something to show you.”
“Sardines again, I’ll bet,” I said to myself. But it
wasn’t. And yet it was.
When I walked into his tent there sat Jim with a row
of opened tins in front of him and a couple of pannikins
near by.
“Well?”
“ Look !”
I looked, hut at first I couldn’t see anything funny, till at
'ast it struck me that Jim had opened the tins at one
corner only.
“ What’s the idea?"
“Smell,” he said.
I smelt.
“ You missed that lot, boss,” he said. “If you had
winked you’d have got tinned fish that you could drink
out of a pannikin.”
Tinned fish every time. Hie !
* * * *
“Boro-Belle”: There are 57 sugar-mills in
Australia. Five of these are central mills, nine or ten
belong to the O. S. R. Go., the Q. N. Bank owns six, Buss
and Oran (Bundaberg) control six, and the remaining 30
are proprietary concerns. There are between 6000
and 7000 cane-growers to keep these mills supplied.
According to statistics, each ton of cane produces
an average of about £2 worth of sugar, and North
Queensland growers are just beginning to wonder how it
is they only get £1 a ton (including the bounty). A Sugar-
Cane Growers’ Union is taking the matter up, and next
season’s events promise to be interesting.
THE COUNTER-JUMPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
White-handed, delicate, and small of voice,
He stands behind the counter all his days,
Assisting Mrs. Jones to make her choice
Of ribbons, lace and stays.
His collar is immaculately stiff,
His smile is practised, large, and very sweet,
His air is quite aristocratic if
You meet him down the street.
A very perfect kind of swell is he,
Too tender for the rough ways of the world.
O wind, blow softly from the shining sea,
Think how his hair is curled 1
Ye smellful motors, raging down the street,
Cast not your dust upon him as ye go ;
Observe the shining lustre of his feet,
And kindly leave them so.
His thoughts are far above the common herd,
He may not bend that such as we may hear.
The gods who made him breathed a secret word
Into his tender ear.
He cannot ride a horse or shoot a gun,
He has not learned to play at any game ;
The winey frolic and the midnight fun
To him were loss and shame.
If war with flaming sword should waste the land,
The ranks of him might ornament the field,
But may the High Gods help us if his hand
Were all our strength and shield I
A faint yet beauteous thing of gentle voice,
He stands behind the counter all his days,
Helping Miss Robinson to make her choice
Of lingerie and stays.
MAORILAND.
D.W.M.


BEALE Australian PIANOS
Grand Prize and Two Gold Medals, London, 1908.
lf you were about to buy a Piano, whose judgment would
you take as to which is the best P
Supposing you had the opportunity of consulting five of the
world’s experts, would you not attach considerable value to
their opinions P
Of course you would.
*lf Then as five such experts—two British and three French-
have unanimously decided that the Beale Australian Pianos
are worthy of the Grand Prix of the Franco-British
Exhibition, plus two gold medals and a silver medal —
As these experts have awarded prizes to the Beale Pianos
surpassing those given to any of our competitors—
Need you hesitate P
If By all means examine imported instruments—that is what
we want you to do.
If But do not be cajoled into purchasing before inspecting
.Vi •
for yourself the Beale Australian Pianos.
If We maintain showrooms for no other purpose than to
exhibit our pianos to the public.
If We guarantee every Beale Australian Piano for 25 years.
If Catalogue Free.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane)’
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
price of the best imported instruments.
Cash or Easy Terms.
Old Pianos taken in Exchange.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for-fair hair.
. Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
RESCS,*' Brewer by' Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle,
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Serious consideration of the fight leads to one
of two conclusions. Either Burns is an abnormally
tough man or Johnson’s blows are not nearly so heavy
and forceful as they appear. Had they been what
they seemed Burns’ jaw must have assuredly been broken.
He received 17 right smashes on exactly the same spot in
the first three rounds —and was not knocked out. Talk
about the man with the iron jaw ! Had those blows
been anything near what they looked like, iron itself should
have been bent if not broken by so much accumulated
shock. He received 19 right-hand smashes over the left
kidney, and was not bent, let alone broken in two. After
the fight the place showed practically no sign of injury.
Therefore, either Burns is gifted with tissue like no other
man on earth, or Johnson’s tremendous-looking smashes
are more showy than effective. The giant black fights a
magnificent winning fight, but look at his head from the
back, and consider what sort of a scrap he would put up
when things started to go against him. Consider his
photo : Note how the head appears to be merely a goose-
berry on the top of his neck. A man with that shaped top-
piece is not the sort of man that would play the losing
game as Burns played it on Boxing Day. Once Johnson
tired, and the tide commenced to go the opposite way,
his moral fibre would crumple up, and he would—unless he
has some hidden compensation balance so far undetected
—shrivel away. Therefore, the game Burns should have
played was to tire out the big man’s undersized shins,
and then go for him. Burns was the holder of the
title, and Johnson had to tear it from him. He should have
allowed Johnson to do all the running after the title and
all the hard work, and have saved his strength to admin-
ister the coup de (/race when the black man was worn out.
Of course, he could only play that game if his speed was
superior to that of Johnson ; and on Saturday’s showing
it wasn’t, although in the training operations it certainly
was. Even in the fight, and despite the sprained ankle,
we saw flashes of velocity, and those flashes were good to
see. Had there been a steady blaze, Burns would not
have received the punishment he did.
Notwithstanding the published opinions of the
critics, headed by Jack London and Larry Foley, this
writer fails to see that there is any particular reason why
Burns should not have beaten Johnspn. The big man
w’as certainly right out of his class as regards weight and
reach. But, all the same, had Burns stuck to his own
printed tactics, he would probably have tired out the
dark gentleman’s legs, and had a reasonable show of
doing something. To begin with, Burns was not as he
ought to have been. His nerves had given way ;he was
over-trained, and had gone stale. To beat Johnson, or
even hold his own, it was necessary that he should have
superior speed, should keep off, and should lead the inky
antagonist round the- ring for a dozen rounds or so till
those thin spindle-shanks of the top-heavy blackfellow
began to tire. Also, it was necessary that he should
give up all idea of hurting Johnson’s head. That
head is too hard, anyhow, and too far away,
and to reach it he had to come within the bear-
like grip of a man who was strong enough to
hold him and twist him into any position which
was most suitable for the receipt of damage. If a
man like Charles Mitchell could hold his own against
Jonel Sullivan, a man like Burns should he able to hold
his own against a man like Johnson—provided he went
the right way about it. The strongest evidence that it
was that first unexpected knock-down blow that made
Johnson’s victory easy is that, after *»ceiving it, Burns
quite forgot all ids beautiful maxims, and threw all his
own published tactics to the winds. On the other hand,
Johnson followed Burns’ instructions to the letter. He
let Burns do the leading and the hard work. He suc-
ceeded in “ getting his opponent wild,” and turning him
from a wary, cunning master of ring-craft to a rushing
fury who offered a target for Johnson’s long drives and
tremendous right swings and crosses. Summed up, John-
son won because he got in a lucky blow in the opening
mill, and carefully followed Burns’ printed instructions,
while Burns forgot every one of them. He even forgot
his crouch.
As expected, James Jeffries, of Los Angeles
(U.S. A.), has declined to fight Massa Johnsing, or anyone
else, for the championship or the dollars. “If you’re
feeling fresh go down to the woodheap and work it off ! ”
Mrs. Jeffries chipped in on one occasion when James
was spreading himself to a reporter about “ coming back
into the game.” And the abashed James cut short the
interview by asking the reporter had he a mouth on him.
That was years ago, before James had got fat inside.
Now the worthy ex-champion is somewhere about 20
stone weight, be’ the same a little more or less, and by-
the time he got all that surplus tissue off him he would
be a very limp man to try and recover a championship.
The chances are that if he did fight Johnson, Jeffries
would get an unholy licking, unless the brown champion
turned cocktail. And James is making so much money
in other ways that he is under no necessity to earn a big
purse by taking a w'alloping negro.
Prophecy is not The Bulletin’s failing, but
nevertheless this paper ventures .to predict, that, within
the next 16 weeks, the Mclntosh will, unless prevented
by the Law’, match Johnson and Burns for another record
purse in England. When that astute young man tied the
two fighters up in an ironclad agreement to fight under
him only, he had visions of more than one championship
scrap in his mind : and if London will not allow him to
pull off his big engagement, no doubt Paris will jump at
the chance.
« * * *
When Johnson had wrecked the championship
of Burns a score of voices mentioned the name of Arnst.
Dick had talked of donning the mits, and there was a
general feeling that he had the height, weight, and
strength combined that might recover the championship
for the w'hite race. But, acting on the advice of friends,
Arnst has decided to be content with one championship
at a time, and stick to rowing. Spite of his strength and
reach, he may not be the makings of a top-rung pug.
So it looks as though the destruction of Johnson will be
left to some of his own countrymen.
*-* * *
How wearisome is the advertising of John Wren
in connection with the Noble Art of Stoush ! There was
no earthly chance of getting Jeffries to Australia to fight
Johnson, so Wren rushed in with an offer of a £lO,OOO
purse “to bring the men together.” People seem to have
forgotten that Wren was running Bill Squires as a
“ world’s champion ” what time black Johnson came to
Australia looking for business. The nig would then have
fought Bill for £lOOO if sportsman Wren had been game
to put up the money.
Probably owing to the mental derangement that
waits upon an exasperated digestion, Sydney awoke to
find the atmosphere of New Year filled with vague and
smellful rumors about the recent fight. One yarn was
that a number of prominent people were concerned in an
attempt to amicably arrange the result of the champion-
ship scrap, with a view to keeping public interest at fever
heat and making a record boom. The idea was to give
Johnson an extra £2500 to go down to Burns, whether
Burns was the better man or not. Then Burns, in his turn,
was to fall on a cash basis to Squires, whose premiership
was to be wrested from him by Johnson, when the latter
had finished reading the new edition of the “ Pilgrim’s
Progress.” Then, on Sunday, there was mild excitement
in pug circles over a baseless yarn that Bill Squires had
bumped Johnson in a city bar, landed him on the jaw
and knocked him through a glass door. Neither Johnson
nor Squires is a brawler, and, as the latter under no cir-
cumstances enters bars, the yarn was obviously pure
fabrication.
“Reval” is allowed to speak on behalf of him-
self and some 527 other correspondents : I have no love
for the Black Agony, but feel insulted as to my intelli-
gence at the majority' of the press reports, which give
Johnson little credit as a fighting expert, but simply
state that he was “too big and too strong” for Burns.
The fact is, he was in a still greater degree too good a
boxer for his adversary. From the word “ go ” the ink-
bottle spilled himself all over Burns and put his fire out.
The spectacle was comparable to that of a gorilla toying
with a light meal. Before the tussle Lang challenged
“ the winner or either.” Squires did the same, and went
one better by' adding Lang’s name. Boshter Bill
remarked that he “preferred Lang.” Herein Squires
showed his sense. If ever Lang or Squires is allowed to
have ago at the present champion there’ll, as likely as
not, be an elegy-writing job for some white poet shortly
after. Johnson is(l)a better boxer than Burns or any-
one else in these parts ; (2) he is as strong as a cast-iron
elephant. And there is no earthly senSe in burking these
obvious facts.
* * • *
“ 10-2-4” : I note that Thk Bulletin (31/12/’08)
says this: “Within an hour of the Arnst-Webb race
delicious liars blossomed forth in every corner of Maori-
land, informing all and sundry that they knew the day
before that Arnst would win easily, because Webb had
sold the race, and had made £9647 19s. 5;Jd. thereby.”
Let me tell the author of that par that the Arnst-Webb
liars were mere puling babes in the matter of mendacity
by comparison with the Burns-Johnson tergiversators.
“ Pay £lO (or £5 or £3 or £l, as the case might be) to see
Burns ‘ out ’ the nigger,” howled different citizens to me
on divers days before the 26th ult. “ Wotterver take
me for? The thing’s crunk.” To this I made
feeble gestures of dissent, incredulity, and what not.
I pointed out that the fighting reputations of both
men were spotless, that they disliked each other person-
ally, that the World’s Championship was such a gold
mine these days that it would take a bank to purchase it,
and so on. I was overborne. “ I have it on the highest
authority,” they said ; and I was assured, with impressive
solemnity, that “ Johnson’s been bought outright. Burns
has paid him £l5OO 14s. 3d. to let himself be knocked out
in the 17th round. If Burns had come to me I’d have
told him he was Wasting his money. Johnson hasn’t
been training. To my certain knowledge the black
blightec has swallowed a quart or more of fizz with his
breakfast every day for the past month. He fairly
lines in bars. Not to mince matters, Johnson’s a blanky
dipsomaniac, and if he has the ’horrors in the ring
I shan’t be surprised. Burns bought the ebony wreck
more as a matter of habit than anything else. He buys
all his fights. He bought Squires, Lang-, Moir —the whole
lot of ’em. Me pay money to see a farce like that !
Bah ! ” I observed most of these truth-perverters around
the ringside on the day of battle. They were little
abashed at their discrediting. The imputation of evil
motives to those in high or other places is a hobby with
them. I note that Burns wants to meet Johnson again.
If he does, and manages to get in a hard punch at an
early stage, he will quite conceivably do unto Johnson as
Johnson did unto him on last Boxing Day. I will pledge
my underclothing that in that event the usual old crowd
will at once press forward with the allegation that the
downfall of Ethiopia has been wrought by Burns’ lucre.
There is a type that would ascribe the discovery of its own
mother in Paradise to venal conduct on the part of Peter.
» * * *
When Burns was interviewed, immediately
after the fight, he said that Johnson was “ too big and
strong for him.” A while later he said he was unlucky
ir, spraining his ankle. Then he began to feel better and
talked of wanting another fight, because he hadn’t been
really’ beaten at all. Then he sent a wire to the Sporting
Life, in London, stating that Johnson’s seconds had
asked the police to stop the fight, lest Johnson (who was
tiring) should be beaten, he (Burns) being full of vigor
when the police interposed. By this time Tahmm,y has
probably persuaded himself that he knocked Johnspn out
in the first round.
* *. * - *
The crowd that lives on pugilists in the United
States is very sore indeed over the shifting of the battle-
ground for the world’s bruising championship to Aus-
tralia. It was decided by some of the big promoters over
there to quite ignore the southern scrap, and to act gener-
ally as though it had never been. They do not resent
Burns coming here to smash Squires and Lang, as they are
natives of the place ; but that two Yankee bruisers should
travel away to Australia, lured by a big purse, and
settle the championship outside Yankee territory is an
unpardonable outrage. New York Police Gazette says
that the feeling “may manifest .itself still further when
the pugilists return, in the matchmakers displaying an
indifference about engaging them for forthcoming
fights.” The grammar is horrible, but presumably the
N.Y.P.G. means that Burns and Johnson ma.v find them-
selves boycotted b.y U.S. scrap promoters. It’s an empty
bark. The world’s heavyweight champion is too big a
gun to be boycotted.
* m * *
Up to date, Johnson has received two challenges
to fling his belt on the table and defend it. Philadelphia
Jack O’Brien got in firsthand then came another invita-
tion from Jack Sullivan. Both men are anxious to come
to Australia and fight Johnson here. The Mclntosh has
retired from the governorship of the Syndicate, and the
erstwhile secretary’, Edwin Ooville, for years the trusty
right-hand man of the Mclntosh, who used to keep the
books while Mac did the fighting in the stormy days of
the League of Wheelmen, becomes governing director. The
Mclntosh is on the water, en route for Europe and the
world generally with the championship-fight pictures.
Johnson is showingwith Rickards,-and Burns has now
been engaged by the same manager at £250 per week for
five weeks. After that, he, williknock the corners off
ambitious Mabrilanders for five nights in Wellington,
under the management of the Wellington Boxing Associ-
ation, and receive £lOO per night for doing it. All of
which proves that being a prize-fighter is a mighty easy
way of making a lucrative living.^
A champion loomed over the world’s billiard
horizon last week. George Gray is his name. He is a
Sydneyite, and is but 17 years of age. Lindrum gave Gray
4000 in a game of 14,000 up, and the youngster won by
4043 points. Young Gray is probably the finest losing
hazard striker the world has ever seen. He beat the
world’s record break made off this class of shbt (the re-
cord was held hitherto by Inman, and amounted to 300)
twice during last week’s match. One of his lbsing hazard
breaks amounted to 315, and another to 393. His play is
that of a master in other respects, and sober experts
acclaim him confidently as an embryo Roberts.
* * * *
The continual walloping of its best footballers
by recurrent crowds of beastly “ Colonials ” is getting on
England’s nerves, and when an Australian ’bailer smote
an Oxford,player on the. jaw, the British press went mad.
The reason the “Colonials” win was made plain. They
plav the game so roughly that, the English gentlemen
cannot hope to win unless they descend to the gutter
tactics of their opponents, and use their fists. Which is
all rubbish. The whole trouble is that the Rugbyites of
England represent one class only, and that a class
that has never excelled in athletics, warfare, or any-
thing else but money-making and devouring soup. The
bone and sinew. of,the land, plays British Association.
Cuffs and Collars stick to Rugby ; and Cuffs and Collar^
•jet walloped every time they meet a team drawn from
the toiling section of the oversea Britons.
* * * •
The position between the players and the cricket
Board of Control has been much simplified by the excel-
lent common sense of the Board’s attitude. Till the XI. is
picked there are no “ players.” When the XI. has
been chosen, the Board will be prepared to re-
ceive and consider anj' respectful suggestions
from the team; and if the Board’s decision is not
palatable to any of the chosen players, they
can drop out, and the Board will chose players to fill the
gaps. The talk of a conference between the “players”
and the Board is mere guff, and due to swelled head on
the part of certain semi-professional cricketers and to the
eagerness of the sporting scribes in search of copy.
These latter, being paid on space, cheerfully serve up the
ridiculous remarks of a few cricketers whose bloated vanity
causes them to imagine they are the only pebbles on
the beach. Australia is not short of cricketing talent,
and if Messrs. Noble, Hill, and the rest of the pampered
lions go on strike, they will not be missed. Their places
can be filled in short order. The Board is master of the
situation, and the more the alleged players boast, the
greater will be their humiliation. The M.C.C. will not
receive any team that does not come under the auspices
of the Board of Control, and if certain players do not
make haste to show respect for the Board’s authority
they may not be allowed to go to England even if they
wish.
» * * •
Fair interest was taken in the cricket struggle
between Victoria and South Australia at Melbourne,
firstly because the destination of the Sheffield Shield was
somewhat in doubt; and, secondly, because the rift in
the lute with the Board of Control had satisfied every-
body that cricket was not dead, but rather leaping
after the money. South Oss, winning the toss on New
Year's Dav, gave a dolorous spectacle of morbid cricket by
making 127 in all, Woodford, an ex-Stoush-Melbournite,
contributing the top score (32). But no one of the South
Australians was particularly free and wicked in his bat-
ting, seemingly because the Vic. bowling—especially that
of Vernon and Hazlitt—was of a venomous character.
Vernon,, who finally secured five for 24, took the
spine out of the S.A. batting from the start, and
Hazlitt (3 for 19), assisted in preventing the
stiffening of the said vertebra towards the end.
The Victorians, with about a couple of hours for play,
went in, and by six o’clock had knocked up 113 for three
wickets, Ransford and McAlister being each 42 not out.
Resuming on Saturday', McAlister dragged his score to
50, and went out caught and bowled by L. R. Hill.
Ransford, batting with spasmodic flashes of brightness,
was the only other man to score tolerably ; he carried
out his bat for 171. None of the other Vic. batsmen
did anything to crow over. Whitty, a new left-hander,
who bowls a medium-paced ball with a kick in conceal-
ment, was particularly' troublesome ; he got three for 71
—all clean bowled ! Whitty is a young man whose bowl-
ing will be a big asset to South Oss, and perhaps to Aus-
tralia, one day. The Vies, were all out for 346 after the
crowd had had the first bit of excitement in the match—
by seeing Saunders make 17. But Victoria’s batting was at
times unnecessarily slow. For that matter, both teams
may be discommended for dragging out the intervals and
wasting time over the preposterous practice of allowing
new bowlers three trial balls. On Saturday there was an
arrogant display of time-wasting by every known and
absurd expedient.
Practically no public interest was taken in the
inter-State cricket match between Queensland and N. S.
Wales, at Sydney Cricket Ground. The populace was still
too busy discussing the respective merits or demerits of
two gentlemen named Burns and Johnson ; nothing
else mattered. Nevertheless, the N.S.W. team knocked
up 256 in the first innings, and was somewhat astonished
to see Queensland respond with 265, of which Thomson
and Simpson made 68 each, the latter carrying his bat.
When N.S.W. got going again Bubb made what
the daily paper described as a “cheerless 77”;
but they served even if they were not humor-
ous. Farnsworth smacked up 69, and Goddard 33,
and the rest of the side (including “Sundries, 22”)
brought the figures to 280. With a deficit of 271, the
Queenslanders started in good spirit, and by the evening
of Mondav had made 141 for the loss of four wickets. On
Tuesday they lifted it to 234 for six wickets, and then
rain came down and made further operations impossible.
And, at time of going to press, there the game stands.
* * * *
The debacle of the Ma State in its cricket match
with Victoria looks particularly grotesque beside its un-
usual achievement against South Oss., seeing that South
Oss. had already the merit of licking Victoria. Maybe,
N.S.W. was off form or color, or some of its leading
amateurs were torn by the interests of sport and the
glamor of loot (vide daily 7 papers), for it certainly made
an almost preposterous showing against the Victorians.
Its total of 176 on Boxing Day was a fairly creditable
performance on a wicket that, though not extremely
difficult, was still by no means easy to bat upon. But,
in allowing Victoria to knock up 369 in a comfortable
fashion, and by contributing a contemptible frag-
ment like 146 for its second attempt, Wade’s State
was not a subject for rapturous eloquence. On the Mon-
day, the Victorians hit up their total of 369 in a tiresome
way, though the bowling had no venom and -was not
even assertive. That fact is signified by Peter McAlister’s
compilation of 79, for Pete is by no means a brilliant
cricketer, if a cricketer at all. Ransford made 94 with
his usual confidence, though the same must have received
a shake or two by the exuberant deliveries of that catapult-
ing dervish, Cotter. Three times the tremendous trundler
banged Ransford on the thigh just above the pad, and
three times the crowd found Cotter a matter for derision.
He was put on and off the whole day, bowled from both
ends, and when not an expensive luxury to the batsman
by assaulting his anatomy, was a burden to his side by the
punishment his deliveries received. Carroll and Laver
(60 and 35 respectively) were the only other batsmen of
any note, while our ancient friend Sundries notched 30.
Hopkins was the Ma State’s best bowler, and, despite some
bad luck, he gathered in four for 56. Emery, bowling
well at the start, came out with three for 115. Cotter,
more by tremendous good fortune than good judgment,
obtained two for 81 ; and Macartney, w'ho kept an excel-
lent length, secured one for 41. Following on to eat up
a deficit of 193, N.S.W. was in a state of disappointing
collapse, and it was a wonder the whole lot were not
wheeled out to the pitch in invalid chairs. Bardsjey (31)
and Macartney (39 not out) were the only batsmen of
comparative eminence; the other nine and our good
friend Sundries divided the extra 76 among them.
• * • •
“ Westerner’s ” asseveration ; The passing of
jockey McDougall at the Perth Cup meeting will deal the
final slumber-stroke to the practice of using electric bat-
teries on racehorses. The electrified spur has been very
prevalent in the West of late. The jockeys have been
warned that if they are found moke-electrifyingthej'would
be disqualified for life. (A boy recently caught wearing
a battery, and his trainer, received thepromised “lifer.”)
Withal, the practice grows. Present scribe has seen and
handled the batteries, knows the man who supplies them,
and has talked with boys who have worn them.. The
contraptions are small and light. They are worn round
the waist and have wires running down the legs and con-
necting with the spurs. The spurs become electrified,
and as soon as they are applied the horse receives a
powerful shock, which shoots him forward like a streak
of greased lightning. The battery is used mostly on slug-
gish and sulky horses, who can gallop but won’t. On
these its effect is magical. There can be no doubt that
the battery is injurious to the horse and dangerous to the
rider. I have seen a horse leap in the air under the
shock. On another occasion, at South Perth, a horse
bolted clean across the track, jumped the fences and
streaked madly for the bush. As to the rider’s danger,
a leading jockey on one of the “ outlaw ” courses told me
recently that once, when he was using the battery, a wire
got tangled with the saddle,.and every time he sat down
he received a terrific shock. He rode the race out (and
won) hanging to the horse's neck. But he reckons it was
the nearest thing to a sudden and unpleasant death he
has yet encountered.
* * * *
Port Adelaide Racing Club gave a £5OO stake
for its Cup on Boxing Day, and proposes to make a
feature of a two-days Christmas meeting in future. For a
long time the sport has been almost asleep in S.A.
through the summer months. The first race of the
current meeting returned the comfortable totalisator
dividends of £lll2s. for the winner and £l3 15s. for the
second horse.
* * * *
N.S.W. bowlers gathered in the “ rubber ’
against South Australia last week. In the first match, at
Mosman, N.S.W. scored 116 points to S.A.’s'9o —a win by
26 points. The second game was played at Waverley,
where S.A. turned the furniture, and scored 103 to
N.S.W.’s 85—a win by 18 points. The final was thrashed
out at Parramatta, with the temperature at 102° in the
shade, and the South Australians were demoralised by the
heat and by N.S.W. The final scores were : N.S. W., 128
points; S. A., 64 points. In the three “ tests,” N.S. W.
scored 329 points to S.A.’s 257—a majority of 72. N.S.W.
has thus vanquished. Victoria and South Australia this
season at bowls.
The “Stevenson Loving Cup,” an annual one-
rink bowling match between Waverley and Adelaide
clubs, was decided at Waverley last week, and Waverley
took possession of the mug, scoring 24 points to
Adelaide’s 16.
* * * . *
The Parisian paper which launched the Pekin-
to-Paris and New York-to-Paris motor races is once more
on the warpath. But this time it is on the aerial track, with
a reward of £4BO to the first aeroplanist whq flies from
Bordeaux to Paris —a nice little swoop of 370 miles. It is
not necessary to do it all in one effort, and the ’pianist
can make five sections of the distance if he feels that way.
The machine must be an aeroplane only, and not a diri-
gible balloon.
* » * *
Somebody recently inquired what becomes of
the cyclist when he leaves the track, and the Dunlop
Rubber Co. has hunted up some of him. As a result, it
is safe to say that when the wheeler departs from the
business of scorching he takes to toil of some sort. It is
not correct that he commits suicide, or dies like the
locust because his glory has departed. Tom' Busst, who
never went on a bust under any circumstances, and was
champion on the old upright machine, is still among
the wheels, working with a Maoriland cycle firm.
“ Charlie ” Wood is a sharebroker at Townsville. Charles
Bennett is now a wealthy cycle importer. Shackleford
and Con Dwyer, also high-wheel champions, and the
latter of whom was the first man to do 20 miles an hour
in Australia, are both prosperous; the former on a
selection in Gippsland, the latter on the roads as a
traveller. Dick Davies, winner of the Austral in 1888,
manages a rubber business in Melbourne. O. B. Kellow,
is the well-known motor magnate of that name, and
Howard Lewis is also doing well in the same line of busi-
ness. Joe Megson is running a lightering business in
Sydney. Wally Kerr has taken to the jewellery trade.
G. W. Crisp is surveying in Tasmania. L. B. Scharp is in
the Victorian civil service. Broadbent is on the Aus-
tralasian and Argus. Bobby Walne is bridge-building
in Queensland. Frank Beauchamp is selling bikes in
Tasmania. Don Walker holds a good position with the
Dunlop Rubber Co., in Melbourne. Parsons and Car-
penter are running pubs in Melbourne, and Plugger Bill
Martin is a financier, and runs a big fancy-goods store in
the capital of Bent.
* * * *
The taximeter, cab is due in Melbourne this
month, when 12 nine-h.p. Renault cabs will be spread
over the principal ranks. The fare, which will be indi-
cated automatically on the taximeter, will range from
one shilling for the first mile or portion thereof, and in-
crease, like Costs, at the rate of threepence for every
additional quarter mile. When the cabs will be started in
Sydney probably depends on the reception they receive in
the other city.
The Tariff Reformers recently dug out the fact
that up to the end of September, 1908, Britain had im-
ported no less than £3,768,000 worth of foreign motor
cars. They argue that had those cars been made in
Britain there would have been a big hole in the list of the
unemployed.
„ * * *
Two principal events at Sydney Tattersall's
annual meeting—commenced Wednesday last week and
concluded New Year’s Day—were the Carrington 1 Stakes
(six furlongs) and Tattersall’s Cup. The former went to
the heavily-backed Lord Beauchamp, but only by the
narrowest of margins, as he had almost completely
petered out at the finish, and a few yards more would
have seen him third—beaten by Oboe and Virtu. Lord
Beauchamp has been a considerable boom for some time,
but the Carrington Stakes is the first big thing his record
shows. Time (lipin. ]4ssecs.) equals Hiero’s figures last
year. Lord Beauchamp carried Bst. 71b.,andHiero only7st.
121 b. The Tatt’s. Cup result pro ved a complete boil-over for
the public .generally, and consequently a big lift for Holy
Moses. Nowhere had the winner, Trentmoon, shown
anything equal even to the ordinary, and in the Summer
Cup, on Boxing Day, he finished absolutely last. Never-
theless several shrewd, well-posted people backed the nag
to win fairly substantial sums at from 100 to two down to
100 to five, because of a very fast round at Randwick they
knew he had done a few' days before. Trentmoon had the
race all his own way oyer the last mile and a quarter, but
the beaten field w-as by no means high-class and the finish
was decidedly groggy.
**' * *
Yet another cyclist has failed in an attempt to
smash Pearson’s record-ride of 57br.- 24min. between
Svdney and Melbourne. N.S.W. biker E. Schneider left
Sydney full of hope and reached Campbelltowh (35$
niiles) lOmin. ahead of a schedule, which, if adhered to,
must lower the mighty Pearson’s spin. But bad weather
came along, and Schneider gave up' the task of record-
breaking, and continued the journey leisurely.
* * * *
The balance-sheet of the Davis Cup tennis
competition in Melbourne is a rosy document. Receipts
totalled £1202 ; expenditure, £268 (attendants, police,
etc., £3l; cost of temporary stands, £169; printing,
advertising, etc., £l9 ; balls, £8; sundries, £4O). The
profit was £933, of which half goes to the Murkan Ass.
This should easily pay the expenses of the two challengers.
Last year’s receipts for the challenge matches, played in
England, came to only £340, out of which £169 was paid
in expenses—almost exactly half. The balance-sheet for
1908 is as creditable to Australia as the play was. ;
(Continued on page Sit.)
“ALWAYS AILING.”
What a world of meaning these two words con-
vey. Yet in thousands of homes the same tale is
told of sick and ailing wives and daughters who
suffer from constant headaches, loss of energy,
loss of depression, habitual constipation,
and frequent attacks of biliousness and indi-
gestion.
“For many months,” writes Mrs. Francis, of
32 Shepherd Street, Redfern, Sydney, “I was
always ailing, suffering from bad headaches and
generally depressed. I saw the doctor several
times, and he prescribed medicines, which only
gave me temporary relief. I usually retched upon
rising every morning, and it was not until I com-
menced taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills that
this ceased, and I began to recover my strength
and get relief from the headaches. Ever since,
your pills have always been our family medicine,
and, indeed, they are the sole household remedv
of many of my relatives. You are at liberty to
publish this for the benefit of others.”
Are you always ailing? If so, do not give up
hope; do not despair if doctors’ prescriptions
and other medicines have had no permanent effect.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have invariably
proved successful, and thousands of women who
have been restored to health gratefully testify to
the great curative and corrective influences of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.


»
benn|
A NEW CATALOGUE
FOR THE
NEW YEAR
See it ! Whether you are contemplating a cycle-purchase now or in
six months’ time, we want you to see it.
We want you to know how reliable our machines are, how well they
are built, what good stern material is in them ; and this is all
fully described and illustrated in our 1909 Catalogue.
Your request carries no obligation—Write Now!
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest C.vcle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
TOO FAT
Are You ? Then why not let us help you to reduce your superfluous flesh ? Would
you not like to be of normal weight and to enjoy the best of health ? If you cherish
that wish, let us help you to realise it. What we have done, and are doing for others,
with NORMAL OB RSI LY CURE we can do for you. Let us lighten your heavy
burden and send you on life’s way rejoicing. Do not hesitate. Call at our offices, or
send us your address, and we will post you a Free Sample of Normal Herbal Treat-
ment, also an interesting booklet on OBESITY. Enclose 3d. stamps for postage.
L(HIdOH Spocislitifis Agfincy, Office A 44 Castiereagh St., Sydney
: MONEY:
has been described as “ the root of all evil.” Yet without
it one cannot accomplish much nowadays.
If you are thinking of improving your property or
increasing your flock, and are hampered by lack of cash,
submit your requirements to us. We make advances in large
or small amounts at current rates of interest, on approved
securities, and will be pleased to carefully consider your
proposals, and let you know promptly whether or no we can
assist you.
Enquiry will cost you nothing.
We supply application forms if required, and have our
own printed forms of security, which can generally be used
in connection with the smaller class of advances, thus
saving expense.
A.M.L. & F. Co.
(Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Co., Ltd.),
Capital ... £4,000,000
Subscribed ... £3,000,000
Paid-Up ... £520,000
Reserve Fund £300,000
Pastoral BanKers,
Wool tSI Produce Salesmen,
StocK CSL Station Agents, etc.,
Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
1
• '' j
#:
We Make a of-
Conveyor
a
i
JT‘:
UN
m
Melb
Adela
isba
istch
MININA GOODS
Uneoualled for Quality & Price
“Wang”: Some of these picturegraphs begin to
overdo things. The other night, in company with six
pence, I went to the Continental Picture Gardens along
St. Kilda-road (Vic.). At the turnstiles I took an affect-
ing farewell of my friend, and proceeded to dwell among
scenes and peoples in strange lands (vide programme). The
canvas started to give us a vision of ’appy Hingland in
the moss-grown past. The pictured story on the screen
was called “The Squire’s Right” (no connection with
Johnson’s left). The Squire, attended by a couple of de-
pendents, started rent-collecting. He was the most suc-
cessful rent-gatherer I ever saw. It was no use sending
little Billy out to say that father wasn’t working, or was
ill, or that mother was away earning it. The Squire
would merely present Billy, his father and mother and the
rest of the family with the .father of a hiding with a short
stock-whip, and walk off with everything they possessed,
after impressing upon them, by leathering them some more,
that they mustn’t be behind next rent day. At one place
the Squire walked off with a herd of assorted beasts from
about 50 able-bodied men, lashing out indiscriminately as
he went. My neighbors were a feathered damsel and her
swain. “Beast!” exclaimed the maiden, cracking a
peanut. “Why don’t they bog inter him !” ejaculated
her escort, whom, from his personal decorations, I took
to be a barracker for “ Sowth,” “ there’s ernough ter eat
the swine.” A parting swipe of the Squire’s whip made
about 20 of the men on the canvas squirm ; whereupon
the youth from “Sowth ” exclaimed—“ Now, get ter the
cow!” But the unhappy-looking crew took no notice,
whereupon Bill, disgustedly—“ Spare me days ! Did yeh
ever see such a lot ? Lumme ! ”
Australia’s good friend, Mrs. Blanche Arral, the sweet
and mysterious singer, has burned herself rather badly
in San Francisco, through the upsetting of a spirit lamp.
Her husband, Herold Bassett, has been shot in the knee
by a'Frisco footpad. Also, Judkins is ill; and Johnny
Sheridan, Alfred Dampier, Charles Holloway and Herbert
Flemming are recently dead. Taking one thing with an-
other, 1908 was a bad year in the show business. And
now George Lauri has passed out.
THE CHURCH LOOKS ON.
PARSON: “ How magnificently disgraceful! Why,
it beats . child-slavery, sweating, etc., hollow.
So popular, too! What a splendid ad. I'll
get out of it."
A sassiety item circulating in London amounts to an
Imperial ukase to the effect that naval and military bands
are to get a move on when perpetrating “ Gorsave ” in
sprightly King Ned’s presence. It has struck the Seventh
Edward that the tune, as generally played, is unpleas-
antly like a funeral hymn, and he has spoken his mind
about it. This, at any rate, means that the infliction
won’t in future last quite so long, but it will probably be
quite as bad while it is there.
As The Bulletin goes to press the divers
are searching in Sydney Harbor for the last of the
bodies of 15 bluejackets drowned through the col-
lision of a naval boat, off Garden Island, with the
coasting steamer Dunmore. Just before 7 o’clock
on, Tuesday morning 80 men belonging to the
cruiser Encounter left the Naval l)ep6t on
the Island for rifle practice at the Rand-
wick range. The party was in a long
boat, which was towed by a pinnace, and
it was to land at the Man-o’-War steps in Farm
Cove, and proceed by tram to the butts. When
about 150 yds. from Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair
the Dunmore, inward bound to Woolloo-
mooloo Bay to discharge some blue-metal,
loomed up—and . the smash happened. In
a flash, 80 men, each encumbered with 601 b.
of arms and accoutrements, were struggling in the
water which was being threshed to foam by the
propellers of both vessels. Some saved them-
selves by clutching the belting piece of the
Dunmore as it glode past. The pinnace picked
up a number; and the Dunmore’s boat, which,
luckily, was being towed astern, and was thus ready
for immediate use, managed to gather up a few
badly-exhausted men. The boats of the squadron
were afloat almost as the alarm was shouted across
the bay, but the tragedy was nearly over before
the racing crews could reach the spot. It is a sad
enough business, but had it happened in a more
lonely spot, or had the Dunmore been like most
vessels—a smooth wall of steel with nothing tor a
heavily-weighted man to cling to —65 might have
been the number of the lost instead of 15.
The official picnic to inspect Australia’s
proposed desert capital at Yassberra, though
cordially approved by Ma State
members, is apparently not a
subject for thoughtless rhap-
sodies allround. Hume Cook,
at any rate, is not fascinated
by the idea, for he has hurled
these remarks at Minister for
Home Affairs Mahon, who is
accused of being the author of
the expensive suggestion :—•
As you must know, I have not been,
and I am not now, in favor of Yass-
Canberra as a site for the Federal
capi tal. If access to the sea and a
Federal port were granted, some of
my strongest objections would be
overcome ; but until the most satis-
factory assurances on those points
have been received from the Govern-
ment of N. S. Wales, I am not pre-
pared to support the expenditure of
a single penny more than is neces-
sary to survey and determine such
portions of land and water frontages
as the Commonwealth requires. I,
therefore, regard the establishment
of a “ camp ” as so much waste of time and money
pending the actual settlement of those adjuncts to the
city site which I have indicated.
And quite a number of people will agree with
Hume Cook, M.P. and good Australian.
Obit on Tuesday morning last, aged 56,
Albert Pinard, the successor at the Sydney French
consulate of Biard d’ Aunet, departed. With his
pointed grey beard, his voluminous tie, his tiny
feet, and his hat rakishly inclined, the deceased
was a typical Frenchman of the Boulevards. He
was a gourmet who knew what good food was, and
insisted on having it. There was no better “ little
dinner” procurable in N.S.W. than was served at
the house of Pinard. He had been in most parts
of the world, talked amusingly of the places he
knew, and was an authority on the troubled
politics of Servia and Turkey. An appreciative
country made him a Knight of the Legion of
Honor seven years ago, and his naif delight in his
distinction remained keen to the end.
Bruce Smith wrote to the S. M. Herald
last Tuesday and stated re the anti-borrowing
policy of the Australian Parliament :
The principle is utterly wrong, and contrary to all
recognised commercial practice. In every well-conducted
company or commercial concern all such permanent
expenditure, for which an abiding asset remains, would
be treated as an “addition to plant,” and the money
expended upon it would be borrowed, or raised by the'
issue of fresh stock.
Come to think of it, Bruce Smith was once on the
directorate of a Sydney company run on lines some-
thing like these, and it did an amazing burst.
But Bruce was so very angry that he added this :
It is surely time that Australia was governed by a
Parliament elected by the people.
And in his haste Smith quite forgot to mention
who elects the Parliament if the people don’t.
By reason of the partnership existing
between them, Bull is prevented from speaking
harshly to Japan over its trade-mark frauds, and
the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce, which
sees an unauthorised brown paw dipping into its
legitimate profits, is blandly advised by Bull’s
helpless Government to “appoint an agent in
Japan to watch its interests.” The Birmingham
Chamber is now down on its knees thanking Bull
for nothing. The appointment of an agent to
watch the swindles isn’t likely to lead to anything
save office expenses and further tribulation. The
ordinary brand of justice dispensed to foreigners
in Japanese courts of law isn’t worth troubling
about, and on sucKjgiatters as patent rights it
would probably just amount to an insane bundle
of brown Costs. '
“ Dandenono-ite ” writes :
On the night before the elections, Bent was unwise
enough to to Dandenong to support the candi-
dature of one J. B. Wilson. Ordinarily, Dandenong is just
a peaceful hamlet, but the arrival of Bent acted on it like
the soap the curious and spectacled tourist administers
era
ened to in courteous silence, and when the scarce dues-
tioner arose he was immediately overwhelmed with an
insult and with the laughter of the crowd. Dandenong,
however, didn’t give the dreadful old boor a chance to
it was hoarse, and told the aged bully to keep
to the point. A reference to Murray started a simi-
lar demonstration in favor of the Warrnambool man
Keogh and the Melbourne Agf, were next attacked and
cheered to the echo by the crowd that boiled furiously
around the platform and bewildered the very rattled and
bear-like old person with questions he could not answer.
When Bent’s voice and spirit were broken, and when it
was made clear that neither threats, persuasion nor
Billingsgate would obtain him a hearing, the chairman
made*an attempt to close the meeting ; but it was rather
like an attempt to cork up a volcano or put the lid back
on Sheol. As a matter of fact, instead of declaring the
KrJTw* lit
Wilson with enthusiasm, and returned Keast—thus indi-
eating their opinion of the Bent roar as an election aid.
In the one suburban electorate of Peter-
sham (N.S.W.) the Clerks’ Union has ascertained
that there are 057 clerks on the electoral roll.
And when 057 clerks get raving mad at Premier
Wade for refusing them a Wages Board, and go
forth and vote for the Labor candidate, what will
be the exact value of Cohen’s seat ?
S. Aus., which, since Federation arrived,
has been struggling along with four State Minis-
ters, reckons that, on account of four good seasons,
it can keep two more men in moderate comfort; so,
the necessary Act having been passed, Government
whip Coneybeer and J. G. Bice have been
appointed. Coneybeer is a Laborite; Bice a
Liberal. The latter is in the Leg. Council,
where he will give Kirkpatrick a lot of badly-
needed help. S. Australian Ministerial remunera-
tions are nothing tremendous; the whole six
Ministers can only cut up £5OOO among them,
which pans out at £BOO a-piece after paying the
whip £2OO. Though Price has now five people to
help him, he still has no lawyer in the team :
nominally, ex-country council clerk Peake, the
Treasurer, attends to the legal branch of the
business.
SANCTUARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wonderland City, Bondi (the Coney Island of Australia).
Abandon Care All Ye Who Enter !
Everybody Laughing ! Everybody Good-humored !
Everybody Undignified !
The Mecca ,of Merry Souls.
—Daily paper advt.
Hand me my cheque-book, and bestow
A fountain-pen on me ;
For I would draw the cash to go
Where cheerfulness and laughter flow
And pagan joy and glee.
’Tis my ideal, this. A place
Where clergymen are not;
Where anti-fight, drink, dance and race
Fanatics do not state their case
In whirling words and hot.
I hanker for a refuge from
Wails, snuffle and abuse.
For further sobs concerning Tom-
My Burns and Jack the Colored Bomb
I have no sort of use.
Where’er I move the Methody
(Attended by his Face)
Doggeth my steps. I yearn to be
Where dreary horrors such as he
Are wholly out of place.
I do not know if Wonderland
Contains within its bounds
1 A pub. If so (whatever brand
Of drink it stocks), I shall demand
Lodgment therein, plus fodder, and
Abide for weeks by its blithe strand,
Though it should cost me pounds.
10-2-4.


OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Shall we mail you a copy ? It contains over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and Optical
Goods, and is yours for the asking. Write for it now, even if you are not buying for some time to come. With it you
CAN BUY IN PERFECT SAFETY through our UP-TO-DATE MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Bird and Spray
Heart CHARM,
7/6
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold BRACELET, get Pure Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire,
£4/10/
All Diamonds, £5/10/.
OPEN
FACE,
10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open-face, Keyless
WATCHES, Short-wind, stem set, per-
fectly regulated,
„ . 10/-
Higher Graae, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, with Safety Chain,
£3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
CHARM
Amethyst
Thistle,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold CROSS, set Fine
255'-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set Fine
White Pearls,
£4.'
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, 2-Bar “Dinna Forget” BROOCH,
Garnet centre,
, 10/6
Other styles, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set Fine
Pearls and Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold, set Onal,
Ruby, or Sapphire,
17/6
15ct. Gold, 30/; 18ct.
Gold, £2.
9ct. Gold, Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, with Safety Chain attached,
£2-
Larger, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/. Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/, 60/, 70/, 80/.
9et. Gold Signet RING,
20/. 15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
'2. 1 /•
15ct. Gold, 40/; Silrer, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pearls and Tourmaline
or Peridot.
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold NECKLET and PEN-
DANT, set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst, £4-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Five Pure Golden Sapphires,
£5-
Diamonds and Rubles or Sapphires, £l2/10/.
All Diamonds, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS,
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
12/0
15ct. Gold, 25/; Silver, 3/6.
SOLID
SILVER,
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting, Keyless
WATCHES, Fully Jewelled, Perfectly
Adjusted,
25-
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/. 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £B/10/. Guaranteed 1,2, 3,
and 4 years.
SOLID
GOLD,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold “Lily of the Valley” Spray BROOCH, set
Fine White Pearls,
£4-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set
Pine Golden Sap-
phire, £3, £4, £5
according to size
of stone.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine Dia-
monds and Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l5-
Diamonds and Emeralds,
£l7/10/.
A. SADjnDERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds,
and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£l5-
All Diamonds, £27/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine,
Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£2O
SOLID
GOLD,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct. Gold, Hunting, Keyless
Waltham LEVER, f-plate, fully jewel-
led, compensation balance, perfectly
adjusted, extra heavy case, hand-
engraved,
£l2/10/-
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in Free Repair for 6 Years.
HIGHER
GRADE,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set
Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2-
Green or Golden Sapphires, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH, sell Fine
Pearls and Opal Body,
£4-
All Pearls, £5.
31?
nfflr
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BAMBOO BRACELET,, Half-chased, with
Safety Chain attached,
£2/15/-
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS).
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set with
Tourmalines,
£3-
For Pierced or Unpierced Ears.
Other Styles, 12/6, 35/, 17/0, 20/,
25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH,
set Pearls and Tourmalines,
or Peridots,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
Fine Pearls and Amethyst,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine White Pearls and Tour-
malines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
MJkJI
JQ yi
mu
A. SAUNDERS.
Xsct. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls, Ruby,
and Turquoise, or all Pearls,
£3/10/-
Olivines,' Rubies, and Pearls, £4/10/.
OUR
“UNRI-
VALLED’*
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel, Open-face, Keyless WATCHES,'.
f-Plate, Shortwind, Patent Adjusted Balance,.
Dust and Water Proof Cases,
a<)/-
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/,
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18qt. Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£3/10/-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£S/10/-
Ali Diamonds,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Clus-
ter RING, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£lO-
- Centre,
£l2/10/.
SOLID
SiLVLI
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver, Hunting, Keyless
LEVER, |-plate movement, fully jewelled,
£2-
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£5, £O. Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/,
£lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £l7/10, £2O, to
£75. Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, 6, and 7 1 ears.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/.
Our System of Free Car-
riage on Goods to any
part of the Country means
a big saving to you.
With the exceptions of
Clocks and Chinaware, we
send all Goods Carriage
Free to any part of Aus-
tralasia.
sfdf
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Double Curb ALBERT, made in our own workshops, £3. Heavier, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £7/10/. 15ct. Gold, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/. In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 20/. In 14kt Patent Gold-filled, Guaranteed, 20s, 25/, 30/. Any Special Design of Albert to order.
A. SAUNDERS


TmmmmnmuiiuMnium
&
n
€>.
©
<3
©
hr#
Ho
>
;
i
m
mm
■ A
UA
i
U
=£3
yy
[mugga
Mi
H
4
K
a
s
lIIHHIUmtIiIWiW
9
TOR TVLI
APPIX A6EN
ICVLMiS OP
Jo}
MI?


IN BANANA LAND.
Premier Kidston, of Queensland, is de-
veloping a talent for telegrams, a la Kaiser Bill.
A. day or two after the Vic. elections he sent this
tearing over the wires between Brisbane and
Bent:—
I congratulate you on being able to save Victoria from
the curse of the three-party system.
Kidston’s Parliament still has three parties, but
the poor, hot, harassed Bent is staggering under
the infliction of four. There are his own ragged
corporal’s guard, the followers of Prendergast,
the Murrayites, and a small squad of indepen-
dents. When Bent, shouting and perspiring
among all these woes, got Kidston’s telegram his
language should have been worth hearing.
At Muckadilla, near Roma (S.Q.), "there
is an artesian bore, sunk about 10 years ago, the
waters of which are said to be an almost certain
cure for rheumatism, gout, stiffness of joints, and
such-like complaints. The water has a tempera-
ture of 109 degrees Fahrenheit when it comes
from the bore-pipe, but when it has run along the
earth channels and cooled somewhat, stock don’t
mind drinking it, despite the fact that it is
strongly impregnated with minerals. In each
gallon of it there are 32'85 grains of solids—ls 79
of sodium carbonate, 6‘90 of sodium chloride,
3‘.36 of calcium carbonate, 3’oo of silica, 1'55
of.sodium sulphate, I*sl of magnesium car-
bonate, ’5O of iron with alumina and sulphuretted
hydrogen, which forms in globules as the water
comes in contact with the air. A number of cures
from its use are alleged to have occurred. Un-
fortunately the arrangements at this “Pool of
Healing ” are of the most primitive character. The
bath is a slab contraption, sunk in the ground,
about Gft. square, and 2ft. deep, and overhead
there is a kerosene tin with holes in it to supply a
shower, if required. The bathroom is a rough
shed, built mostly of corrugated iron, and is too
well ventilated to be pleasant. There are no
accessories, no bath attendant, and no cooling
room.
The Political Chaos in Queensland.
-v
“Radical” writes: After a brief and riotous
session Premier Kidston got into recess. His
democratic programme of some eight or nine
measures was thrown overboard holus-bolus.
Estimates were put through under the guillotine,
although there was a total absence of all obstruc-
tion ; and the one-time democrat closed up
the Parliamentary session amid a stbrm of
hatred and indignation. The Philpites are, of
course, delighted at the present position of affairs.
They know retreat there is none for Rjdston.
He has become their political bond-slave,Jpody
and soul. He must do their bidding or quitr.and
quitting the Treasury benches comes not easv to
the canny “ bairn o’Falkirk.” The session was
one long series of Ministerial party caucuses.
On the very first day a sectional Tory
caucus was held against the Premier’s pro-
posed policy, and every week subsequently
the Government party had to be dragooned by
fresh caucuses into fresh submission. It is an
open secret that Philp is the man who holds the
Tvid-Philpites together, for of respect towards the
Premier the Government party is as destitute as
is the Opposition. Presentations to Philp are the
order of the'day, and a Philp boom is well on the
way to a successful culmination. If Premier K.
could successfully engineer himself into it five
years’term of the Agent-Generalship, he probablv
would not face another session; but this might
not suit the book of the crowd he is leading.
* * * *
Out of 72 members in the Assembly, 31 are in
bitter hostility to the present Premier, and will
spare no effort to oust him. If only five discon-
tents from the Government side join them,
Kidston’s end has arrived, and right well is that
obese politician aware of the precarious nature
A QUAINT CUSTOM.
NEW CHUM: “By Jove, that's curious—that's dooced curious!”
MINER: “And what the blue blind blazes is curious about it?”
NEW CHUM: "Do you know, you are the fifth gentleman I've seen washing his hands along
the rivulet this afternoon.”
of his tenure. By way of starting a boom policy,
he has just put through a Loan Bill authorising
the raising of about £3,000,000. A liberal expendi-
ture of loan money is necessary to the Government,
for expenditure of late has been going ahead in a
way that looks very like a recurrence of deficit in
the near future. Disgust with Kidston is everv-
where apparent, and had the Labor party only
the nous to drop their ironbound. impractic-
able system of tactics, William’s lease of life
would be both short and grievous. But in the im-
practicability of Labor methods in Parliament
lies the real hope of. Queensland Conservatism. If
Bowman and liis party were only at liberty to
form a reasonable working alliance with”the
Democratic section in the Assembly, the present'
Kid-Philp combination would, soon vanish into
thin air—but now as ever the intransigeant policy
of the extreme wing is the staunchest ally of Con-
servatism.
• * * *
The Philpites openly and undisguisedly boss
the new party and boss the Premier. Most of
them feel nothing but contempt for the r6le he
has played, and don’t hesitate to say so. It is
freely rumored tljat a re-shuffle of the Ministerial
cards is imminent, for old hands like Philp,
Campbell; Forrest, and Barnes are not going to
sit down calmly while political babes and sucklings
like Paget, Hawthorn and Appel monopolise
portfolios, and sweep along majestic in the new
Ministerial motor-cars. . . And, above all, there
looms over Kidston the ever-increasing shadow
of Philp’s reviving, popularity. For Philp,
despite his awful defects as a political leader,
never yet betrayed a friend or sold a party!
While in power, Ae was easily accessible to
friend or foe; always willing to borrow mil-
lions of pounds or to sell millions of acres;
always facile—always adaptable. What more
could Queensland Toryism desire ? As for the
one-time Democrat who now nominally bosses the
show, he is but there for the moment.
A case for which there probably wasn’t any
precedent was dealt with at Gympie (Q.) the other
day. The Court, when arranging the distribution
of £4OO under the Workers’ Compensation Act,
provided that £lOO should be paid to the mother
of an unborn child—and the deceased wasn’t
exactly married to the anticipatory mother. The
Court ordered the amount to be lodged in the
bank until a certain day, when, if nothing has
happened, the money is to revert to deceased’s
mother, who received the other portion of the
£4OO.
The Chinese opium-smuggler may be a
bungler, as alleged (B. 17/12/’08), but there’s a
certain Bad Hat in a Queensland town who is any-
thing but a bungler at stealing water. In the street
near this Chow's garden there is a standpipe for
supplying water for a trough, and in the garden
there is an elevated tank with a windmill. That
whirly adornment leads people to think that the
tank is supplied with water from a well, but such
is not the case. The windmill is only a bluff; it is
not connected with the tank or with anything in
particular. An underground connection is made
with the town water supply below the standpipe,
and the Chow gets water for his garden into the
tank free of charge, and without trouble. But
he’s going to strike trouble soon over the busi-
ness.
Two rival unions in the sugar industry
have steam up in North Queensland. The first
one, which embraces both growers and millers,
trades under the title of the Australian Sugar
Producers’ Association, and its avowed objects
are (1) to foster brotherly love between grower
and miller, and (2) to get the excise and rebate
abolished in favor of a higher Protective duty.
The other organisation, the Sugarcane Growers’
Union of Australia, is composed of growers-only,
and its aims are (1) to obtain a more equitable
price for cane from the millers, and (2) to secure
the continuance of the excise and rebate. The
Association is smiled tipon by the C- S. R. Co. (the
smile is said to be worth £7OO per annum), while
the Union depends upon a modest halfpenny per
ton on all cane grown by its members. ‘Both
organisations are run by ex-bank managers.
According to an article by R. R. Ware
in the Brisbane COueier (26/12/’08), there has
been no ground for doubt as to the fate of Leich-
hardt at any time since 1858. In that year certain
men were looking for sheep country. They were
resting between the Comet and Nogoa Rivers
(Q.), and the aborigines of the party went out
hunting. The hunters fell in with a number of
our colored brother, who told them that a party of
whites had camped somewhere thereabouts years
before, and had been killed by the Comet tribe. Our
colored brother also stated that one of the murdered
party had slept apart from the rest, that the Comet
tribesmen had killed all of them, that they had
driven away all the horses and cattle, and that
some of the cattle were even then down the river.
Next day certain of them went down the Nogoa
with the blacks and saw a few cattle and a mule.
The mule was caught and hrought into Rock-
hampton and sold. The blacks also pointed out
the spot where the massacre had taken place. On
hearing this account, Carl Sehmallfust, Leich-
hardt’s nephew, Who was then in the employ of
Maurice O’Connell, visited the locality With a
couple of blackbqys and came back satisfied, after
making all possible inquiries, that the murdered
party was Leichhardt’s. The fact that one man
camped apart from the rest was corroborative
evidence. Leichhardt never camped yvith his
men ; he didn’t even eat or drink with them.
Sehmallfust then made application to Judge
Milford, in Brisbane, letters of administration
of Leichhardt’s estate/;/ Which were granted.
A Northern Night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE blistered roofs, ’neath which we dwell,
Blazed out across the Bay
When Night in cooling quiet fell
With Sunset, gold and gay ;
But now the breeze will freshen ’till
An hour before the Day.
Mimosa San in Chinatown,
Fresh-powdered, plump and tan,
Inveigles wooers—white or brown—
With eyes, and teeth and fan ;
Mimosa San of Chinatown,
But erstwhile of Japan.
(Do not thereat unfairly frown
On poor Mimosa San,
Who Mandarin Ah Fan brought down
To glad the heart of man,
For half the “ business ” of the town
Is run by sleek Ah Fan.)
Here British virtue takes a slight-
Ly Asiatic hue;
In theory remaining white,
In practice turning blue.
A tinted state of things which might
Be somewhat weird to view,
Were not the click of chopsticks and
Strange odors drifting down
The streets from lanes on either hand l
Of this Australian town,
Proclaiming, louder than the band,
“’Tis merely White-and-Brown.”
In “crash,” “Assam,” or “duck,” or “drill,”
The veteran and the cub
Come out beneath the stars to kill
Thirst longings at the club ;
The shirt-and-trousered plebeians will
Foregather in the pub.
Harmonic is the Night with strange
New songs of old desire—
The Northern Life-notes surely range
An impulse octave higher
Within the heart (the gods arrange
Fit music to each lyre).
On coral harps, with pearl inlaid,
And strings of Coen gold,
Beneath the palms is nightly played
A love-song warm and bold ;
The song young Eros told the maid
In Paphian days of old.
A Queensland beach its silver wealth
Is holding to the Moon !
Anon, in Youth and Hope and Health—
That fade, alas, so soon—
Conies hopeful Romeo, in stealth,
To crave his Juliet’s boon.
While frangipani scents divine
Across the coral flow,
While sundered paw-paws, soaked in wine,
Their fruity bouquet throw.
The white magnolias, moonlit, shine
And fire-flies flitting glow ;
While Care is but a blunted sword
In silken scabbard laid,
And Death a mere remembered word
That makes no soul afraid,
Mimosa San shall find reward,
And Romeo his maid.
So walks the Night, all-tropic, bare
And naked to the skies,
In pleasure’s burning rosevvay where
The Land of Plenty lies,
So walks the Night with fragrant hair
And Asiatic eyes. '
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, January 2, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Heat, dust, and horrors. The whole week
might be summed up in these three words, for we
are getting summer with a vengeance, and the
condition of the holiday crowds of mothers and
fathers and children who parade the streets is
pitiful. They are, however, braving the dangers
of the street variety of icecreams with a courage
that, like something mentioned in the Scripture,
passeth all understanding, and the toot of the
trumpet is heard in the land.
By way of forgetting that the last sheet of
tissue paper is on the point of splitting beneath
our feet, the nurses organised on Wednesday
evening a real top-rung variety show, in a tem-
porarily unoccupied ward adjacent to the tennis
lawn. Any small failure in the way of voice was
amply made up in the matter of neat ankles and
bright faces and alluring shapes, such as haunt a
theatrical manager’s dreams, but seldom come to
his door looking for a job. i
An unrehearsed effect was provided by a popu-
lar member of the salts and senna profession, who
suddenly stood upon his head in the middle of a
harrowing recitation, delivered by a very pretty
nurse. On regaining his more ordinary posi-
tion, he hastened to explain that some one had
got up from the other end of the form without due
notice. Any way, no one can accuse him of
listening to the verses unmoved.
The Lord High Chief Justice of the Lofty Court
and his missus are up for a few days’ Turkish
bath, and, clad in thin, well-laundered Assams,
he graced the local horse-chasing. The lady, how-
ever, remained invisible.
The House is up, and the Ministers have for the
most part departed to their little top back rooms,
or to the seaside, all except Home Secretary Joey,
who has gone off per four-in-hand to pay a few
calls on his Warwick friends. The writer heard
him praying fervently for some adequate excuse
to get out on the road five weeks ago. Joey does
fancy himself behind a team.
On Friday the Darling Downs Picnic Race
Club held its annual meet and ball. The ther-
mometer stood at something like 101° in the shade,
with a furnace westerly blowing half a gale. The
wearers of several Paris confections (they always
dress from Paris in that exclusive city) suffered
unutterable things, and one fair lady nearly
melted out of her diaphanous toilette. In the
evening one saw mere of them, as Lauri was wont
to say to Clara Clifton, and the more one saw of
them the more one was reminded of Bert Gilbert’s
mermaid. They did drip so ! Among the local
contingent were the Cecil Palmers. Jhe Clifton
dame and her fair daughter, Dr. T&. Molle, the
Macdonald girls, Miss Goggs, the long Sword
clan, and the musical Jefferies sisters.
Miss Harrie Higginson flits to your shores per
one of the earliest boats on a long holiday, and
the only ewe lamb of the recently-decorated
K.C.M.G. Cooper knight will wander Melbourne-
wards at an early date, in search of cooler breezes.
What a wonderful place the Australia of the
new chum is, to be sure ! I happened on one of
them this week. He had evidently been studying
up the matter, and his intimate knowledge of the
flora and fauna just pafalysed me. He knew all
about “gohannas,” and how they exterminated
snakes, and how the mosquito pest could be easily
subdued by the keeping of a few of the tame pray-
ing-mantis about the place. I hadn’t the heart to
tell him of certain experiences of our own,
such as a severe epidemic among the
prize Orpingtons’ eggs, when there was merely
one “go” on the premises, and that unofficially ;
nor how an ungrateful mantis, despite the fact that
we had spoken most kindly to the beastie, had
broken my heart by devoting himself to the buds
on the best rosebush, instead of confining his
energies to the mosquitoes. No.! when I see a
fellow creature whose knowledge of my own
country knocks me endways, I just bow my head
humbly and hand him over the belt. The belt is
of no use to me anyhow, for the buckle’has come
off it.
The man who proposes to work in the vineyard
Out-back really ought to have a course at a college
for inventors, as well as one at a college for theolo-
gians ; and if time and money wouldn’t run to
two courses, then the theology might be dropped.
I or the plate as a weapon for bringing down even
the modest “ thrum ” is almost played out in those
parts, and the shepherd' has to “knock ’em”
with some novelty. At Charleville, the other
day, the Anglicans organised a “ garden fSte
mostly the same old fete till you reached two
items : a shooting competition for a bullock pre-
sented by a local squatter, and a beauty competi-
tion. The latter (alas for the flesh and the devil!)
was won by a barmaid. But the Church rattled
£3O, the proceeds of the competition, in its pocket,
and was consoled.
Five years ago Hilda Roberts, a Queensland
girl, won a musical scholarship offered by Trinity
College, London ; the gaud was worth £lOO a
year in coin for three years, and free tuition at the
College. Hilda’s box of music was the pianoforte;
and, after she had thumped it well according to
the terms of the scholarship, she did further study
under Tobias Matthay, and the other day made
her “first appearance” at the Bechstein Hall,
London, in a concert programme. The London
papers spoke very kindly of the Bananalander’s
“strength and fluency,” on which points, how-
ever, Bananaland will soon have a chance to form
an opinion of its own, as the now-finished article
is booked for a return to Australia and a series of
concerts.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
“ Wealthy Willie ” : Lately I have had information con-
cerning: a Brisbane damsel ; who adapts the ancient
method of snaring the male <animal by carmiriing her
nails and painting her palms pink so that they will, to
use the precise wortfs of her dearest friend, “open like a
beautiful flow-ah.'” The divine Sawrti, I understand,
always colors her palms in saffron before going on the
stage. This sounds businesslike, if bizarre, and on the
stage the paint’s the thing. The damsel under notice,
however, has neglected her face, a thing which Bernhardt
never did. She has a face which can’t be helped ; and
probably has taken to worshipping her own hands in
order to distract her own attention from her own calami-
tous countenance.
Lees-Warner's Memoirs of Governor Henry
Wylie Norman (Smith Elder, 1908) disclose a few
points of interest: —
(1) Norman spent more than his salary while Governor-
ing Queensland, and applied to Colonial Secretary Ivnuts-
ford for leave to retire, as he did not see his way to
retrench, and could not afford to dissipate his private
savings. Knutsford declined to accept his resignation,
but advised he should explain matters to his Ministers.
Norman explained matters and received commiseration
but no extra cash.
(2) One Saturday Norman learned that a bank with
which he kept an account would close on the following
Monday. It was hinted to him that he should withdraw
his coin, but “feeling that an official should not take
personal advantage of information acquired in his official
capacity,” he declined to act on the hint.
(3) One time Mellwraith gazetted a prorogation of Par-
liament before consulting the Governor, and another time
gazetted the commutation of a prisoner’s sentence before
the papers were legally signed.


\From The Bulletin leading article Jan. 30,
im— . '
Queensland is, with one exception, the country
•with the lowest mortality in the world.
Deaths per 100,000 People, 1906.
Queensland ... 956 Tasmania ... 1113
NS Wales ... 989 Westralia ... 1187
s'. Australia ... 1034 Victoria 1242
Compared with the returns for European countries
see how the white man fares in Queensland as com-
pared with his luck in the lands from which his
forefathers came :
European Death Rate per 100,000 People.
Norway 1542 France ... ... 2090
Sweden 1597 German Empire... 2147
Denmark... ■■■ 1065 Prussia 2208
United Kingdom. 1737 Italy 2337
Netherlands ... 1745 Austria 2566
Belgium 1509 Hungary 2821
Switzerland ... 18437]
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. I.
By J. D. FITZGERALD.
THE BECKONING OF THE SOUTH.
There are to-day, as there have always been in
the world, great migratory movements of peoples
who move onward in waves, seeking better lands,
better opportunities, and better conditions.
Leaving aside here the great military migrations
which have brought Asia into Europe, or caused
the militant streams from Southern Europe to roll
over the North, and the barbarians from the North
to flow over the South, submerging civilisations
in their path, we come to the modern period
when men in Europe, dissatisfied, not only with
their industrial, but , their political environ-
ment, poured across the Atlantic to the United
States as to a Promised Land. The result has
been that the waste spaces of. the great Republic
were rapidly filled ; and the process of absorbing
and digesting these masses of immigrants, and
transforming them into American citizens, has
steadily gone on and goes on to-day.
The chief cause of these steady migrations has
been, no doubt, dissatisfaction with the political
SHEEP
1902-7,213,985.
1907—16,738,047.
conditions of certain European countries which
have furnished the bulk of the immigrants to the
United States, and a knowledge of the free
political and social conditions which existed in
the country to which they were going. Men born
in Old-World States in which Feudalism
was rampant, and in which the feudal customs
and caste conditions made it impossible for them
ever to aspire to a higher social position than thei r
fathers occupied ; such men, educated with that
care which the: European Feudalistic States em-
ployed to their . own undoing as a result of the
partial disintegration of Feudalism, saw their
opportunity in the New World. Those who escaped
to the New World—the fortunate pioneers—sent
glowing accounts to their old homes and spurred
the emulation of others. The rivulet became a
stream, the stream a river. To-day, the migration
goes on with increasing momentum, checked only
by those restrictions Which have lately been set up
for the preservation of the new nation from was-
trels and invalids.
The discovery of gold and silver gave a fresh
impetus to the rush. The love of liberty was
followed by the lust for gold, a stronger lure, which
raised the hundreds to thousands, the thousands
to millions. The fascination, from a distance, of
an altar of liberty, in the virgin forests or on the
vast plains, was not so vivid as that of the yellow
metal—of the chance of riches beyond the dreams
of avarice, of the lure of luck. Tales of great
fortunes in silver “bonanzas” and mountains of
gold drew thousands from afar. And when
this great stake no longer played its part
in the gamble of the immigrant, then came the
last and greatest lure of all—the Land. Produc-
tion from the soil has, in later years, become the
most potent magnet. North and South America,
alike, have drawn their millions by the Lure of
the Land. Even in those countries where free
institutions were non-existent, it sufficed that
Free Land held out its attractions, and the stream
poured in.
Thus, all over the world, this great rush has
been going on to fill up the waste spaces of the
earth. But, like all things, it has reached a point
at which the older parts are becoming crowded,
and the emigrant is looking out for new. The
flood westward has reached its high-water mark,
and with the turn of the tide the waves are rolling
back. It seems a reversal of the natural track of
human migration to find that conditions have
reached a point in the United States when those
who poured in, full of enterprise and hope, are
pouring back again to their home lands in doubt
and despair. It is the sign that the Promised
Lands, the Ganaans of the past, are full; that
new avenues must be sought for the hopes of
migratory nations; that fresh channels must be
grooved for those streams of greatly daring,
greatly hoping mankind, for those who have
begun to realise that so far as America North
and South —is concerned, the Great Western Trek
is over ; and those who are on the watchtowers of
the Old World, peering anxiously for new Lands of
There is at present available for settlement more than double the acreage of Britain,
viz. 144,514,642 acres.
Promise, are turning their eyes southward—to
the great Empty Continent of Australia. ,
There are still immense campeatrian wastes
which invite the world’s surplus populations with
their huge territories, their fertile steppes, their
luxuriant jungles. Eastern Siberia is open, call-
ing to the European adventurers with its great
plains, where a wheatfield as large as a European
ruling State would hardly be distinguishable
in so vast a space. Africa beckons the emi-
grant, alluring him to its mighty rivers, vast
inland fresh-water seas, thick jungles, its
rubber and ivory, its spices, and herbs.
But in Siberia an impassable barrier exists in a
mode of government not yet emerged from bar--
barism ; a people, kindly, hardy and pious, who
know not freedom, and who cannot offer to the
immigrants from abroad adequate compensation
in wealth for what they give up in liberty. The
name of Siberia is accursed ; its fertile fields, its
vast plains, are under the ban of despotic govern-
ment, which, like a magician’s spell, dries up the
sources of wealth, and give the country over, a
prey to sterility and emptiness. On the other
TOTAL AREA UNDER CROPS OF ALL KINDS.
1902—275,383 acres.
1907 — 532,624 acres.
hand, though on its shores Freedom may invite,
there is a heavier spell laid upon Africa than that
cast by the wicked enchantment of despotic
government, in the curious and deadly diseases
which have rankled in its gloomy forests, and
have brooded on its miasmatic plains, or lurked on
the reedy shores of its lakes and rivers for ten
times ten thousand years. These lie in wait for
the adventurer, and strike him with a hundred
strange and hideous deaths, smite his cattle and
his stock, give him uncanny sleep leading into
the portals of death, wither him with loathsome
leprosies, or strike him with sudden fevers, which,
if they do not kill, sear the joy and the freshness of
life out of him and leave him to a lingering death
through his few remaining months or years.
The fact that these great migrations have re-
cently been moving backwards is no conclusive
proof that the floods are dammed for ever. It only
needs fresh streams to begin to trickle towards the
earth’s waste spaces—if any such exist which arenot
under the awful spells of despotism and disease—
and the floods will again begin to pour. The ques-
tion is being asked to-day on many a European farm,
“To what new land shall we turn?” For the
European farms yield a niggard supply to the pri-
mary producer, while even of this the greater
portion will never reach the pocket or the stomach
of the tiller, but will, by the strange necromancy
of prerogative, go into the luxurious laps of titled
do-nothings, who live by Privilege—a privilege
which gives them the right merely because they
“ took the trouble to be born,” to rob the peasant.
So the toiling primary producer, who, this
process, is chained to the soil, and can never hope
to escape from his bondage, asks “Where is the
Canaan of our new hopes? Must we always
slave, as our fathers have done, without hope
DAIRYING.
1903-7,717,325lb.
1907—22,789,158lb.
of surcease or redemption ? Are there no fresh
countries in the world, now that America is full?”
This is the aspiration of hundreds of thousands
of the assorted nationalities of- Europe—the
German, the Dane, Austrian, Czech and
Slav and Pole, Russian and Jew, Croat
and Italian and Frenchman ; and, above all, it
is the prayer of the men of those sturdy stocks
which have inborn in them the very genius of
colonisation and. the very quintessence of the
pioneering spirit, and of adventurers who draw
their swords or sharpen their picks and ploughs in
causes lost as well as causes won—the English,
Irish, Scotch and Welsh —races which are not
alone “free themselves, but a cause of freedom
in others.”
The European townsman, working “all the
hours that God sends,” and Sundays thrown in,
looks longingly abroad for some country with
broad acres and free conditions which, from the
standpoint of his own wretched conditions, appears
almost a Utopia in its fascination and its im-
possibility. A country in which life is free, land
is free, education is free, worship is free, every
effort which lifts the individual to wealth or to
knowledge is unhampered by the dragging weights
and the heavy cerements of the world of Feudal
privilege—such a country furnishes a lure
which would turn aside the wanderer’s steps
from El Dorado or the search for the Fountains
of Youth. If, in bettering their social
and industrial condition, they can rise to the
height of a full political growth through free
institutions, if they can go afar to some country in
which they may find government “of the people
by the people, and for the people,” and if they
know that they are received by the people as
of the people, then their exaltation would be as
great as that of the parched Israelites, after wan-
dering for 40 years in a barren desert, at a sight of
the smiling fields, the vineyards and olive groves,
the corn and the wine and the oil of the Pro-
mised Land. Happiness more than earthly comes
to them when they feel that they may throw off
the gyves of environment, which have been pre-
ordained for them by the long reign of brute force,
and the triumph of might over right.
Fictitious bonds, the bonds of wealth and law,
Still gather strength and force unwilling awe.
Hence all obedience hows to these alone,
And talent sinks and merit weeps unknown.
“Where, then, is Land and Liberty?” Where
can Wealth and Health be sought together in the
same land?
There is one place left in the crowded earth,
which furnishes all that is desired. The last, the
freest, the most progressive of the world’s young
Nations —Australia —looks for population, and
holds out a welcome to those at the farthest ends
of the earth. All who seek a field for the free
development of their gifts are welcome to her
shores, to the shelter of her institutions, to a par-
ticipation in her political and national destiny.
All except those who would taint the blood-stream
or lower the standard of culture, of hygiene or of
industry, may claim and find sanctuary in the
great Empty Continent. Here a young Demo-
cracy is ready to greet those who have faith in
the future of Democracy; and those who are
, offered a share in the great work of building up
the destiny of a new nation, far removed from the
miseries of world-old feuds and strifes, are indeed
fortunate. Here those who have little but their
innate personal energy and rugged independence
will find something more than the reward of
hardy toil in the right of slaving for others,
sowing that others may reap, building that
others may inhabit. Under the freest con-
stitution which the world has yet known, and aided
by that bold system of co-operation through the
agencies of the Government which every one of the
Australian States has fearlessly adopted, the immi-
grant from Europe or America will find every-
thing at his command to enable him to secure
independence, comfort and wealth. Here poli-
tical freedom goes hand in hand with industrial
co-operation through the State agencies; and
energies which are gyved and fettered in Europe,
and to some extent in America, by effete institu-
tions, or frozen by inhospitable climates, spring
into action to exploit a rich soil in a region of per-
petual sunshine, where all the fruits, the ores,
the timbers, the flowers, and the gems of
the earth are lavished in the richest profusion ;
and where vast spaces invite the settler, the ad-
venturer, the pioneer, the gold-seeker, the farmer,
and promise him a rich reward for his energy.
The field which the vast and empty Australian
Commonwealth offers to the emigrant is a seduc-
tive subject; but too large to be done in bulk. It
will be a sufficient service to the whole to point
out the resources and opportunities of one Sta,te
alone; but that State the greatest in its
potential riches, and in the promise which its
marvellous achievements of a few years give of its
future development.
Queensland’s vase extent can only be realised
bv comparisons. To say that it has a territory of
670,500 square miles, containing 429,120,000 acres,
does not create a vivid picture, or furnish a means
of judging to the casual inquirer. But when we
realise that the acreage of the British Isles is Only
77,749,120, we can begin to form a better idea of
the territorial vastness of Queensland State.
Thus the Northern giant, which spreads into the
great South Pacific and Indian Oceans, and runs
to a sharp point in the north, with island
stepping stones connecting it with the big
ichthyosaurus-shaped Papua sprawling to the
north, is nearly six times as large as England,
Ireland, Scotland and Wales together ; and of its
territory but little more than half is under any
occupation tenure, and that mostly leasehold,
which leaves scope for smaller settlement when the
time is ripe ; and even now there is available for
settlement more than double the acreage of
Britain, viz., 144,514,642 acres.
And upon this territory a mere handful of
people is living. The British islands support a
population of 45,000,000 ; Queensland, six times
as large territorially, has but an eightieth of the
population of Britain, viz., 546,000. Of the State of
Queensland, 311,000 square miles are within the
temperate zone, while 359,000 square miles
are in the tropical zone. The finest winter
climate of the world is Queensland’s. The
natural resources of the State comprise minerals
such as gold, silver, copper, lead, tin, iron,
coal, wolfram, antimony, manganese, ironstone ;
the crops, sugar-cane, wheat, oats, barley, rye,
maize, lucerne, cotton, tobacco ; the gems, opal, j
sapphire, rubies, diamonds, emeralds, the im-
mensely popular and fashionable tourmaline ; the
fruits, all that the tropic and temperate zones can
furnish, inasmuch as the grape, pineapple, banana,
orange, lemon, custard apple, paw paw, guava,
mango and granadilla are found side by side
with the apple, pear, peach, plum, apricot, cherry,
nectarine, quince and strawberry. So much at
present for the fruits and products of this wonder-
ful State, which has everything that can lure the
would-be settler from abroad : a splendid climate,
a fertile soil, riches beyond the dreams of avarice
only needing the application of human energy and
capital to draw them forth from the bosom of ■
Mother Earth, which will yield in abundance to
those who employ the talismanie means of skill,
labor, determination and perseverance pursued
under the kindly encouragement of the State and
under the freest Constitution in the world.


Of Curing Her Baby’s Terrible Itch-
ing, Burning Eczema—lt Spread
Over Head, Body, and Limbs —
Could Get but Temporary Relief
Until Cured by Cuticura,
‘‘CUTICURA DESERVES
THE WORLD’S PRAISE”
T f ee ] it my duty to write concerning
the wonderful cure of my child. Eczema
•s^
broke out at first
on his head and
face and then on
the body and
chiefly the joints
cf the arms and
legs. Hewasnoth-
ing but a mass of
sores, itching and
burning, and per-
mitting no rest for
him or me, night
or day. I tried all
manner of oint-
ments and medi-
cines, he has been under doctor’s treat-
ment for nine months, and in the hos-
pital five weeks, but all to no purpose
with the exception of temporarily reliev-
ing the suffering. I was almost driven
to distraction. I did not know what to
do and had almost given up hope of
ever getting a cure. Then my mother
entreated me to try Cuticura. Two
boxes of Cuticura Ointment and two
tablets of Cuticura Soap effected a mar-
velous cure. Those who saw him before
using Cuticura and after can scarcely
believe it is the same, child. They say
Cuticura deserves the world’s praise.
I cannot express my appreciation,
words fail me, and you may depend
that, wherever there is an opportunity,
I shall recommend Cuticura. Mrs.
Lizzie Hardwicke, 1, Pearson St
Brierley Hill, Staffs., July 26, 1907.”’
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
A single treatment consisting of a warm
bath with Cuticura Soap, gentle appli-
cation of Cuticura Ointment, and mild
dose of Cuticura Pills, is often suffi-
cient to afford instant relief, permit rest
and sleep, and point to a speedy cure of
torturing, disfiguring eczemas, rashes,
itchings, irritations, and inflammations
of the skin and scalp, from infancy
to. age, when all else fails.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue
de ia Paix: Australia, R. Towns & Co.. Sydney:
Potter Di-tig & Chem. Corp., Sole Props y
MIGNON
PIANOS.
WHEN the tone of the
MIGNON PIANOS
has been thoroughly
tested, their construction ex-
amined 1 throughout, and their
artistic appearance taken into
consideration, the result is
always the same ; the greatest
surprise is expressed how such
a marvellous instrument can be
produced for the price.
We will be delighted if YOU
will- call and thoroughly test a
MIGNON before finally de-
ciding upon any other.
Most Moderate Extended
Payments Arranged.
Old Instruments taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS:—
Nicholson & Co, Ltd,,
342 GEORGE STREET-SYDNEY,
The sumtner has arrived—there is no doubt of it.
The .heat is hard enough to endure, but you must
remember that the heat and the dust of an Australian
summer will-not only prove unpleasant and disagreeable
to you, but your complexion is going to be ruined ufiless
you are very careful.
Your complexion and- your beautiful Skin you prize,
and rightly so, therefore preserve- them by using only
4711 Glycerine Soaps and 4711 Eau de Cologne. After
a day’s motoring, golf, or.,shopping, “ 4711 ” will refresh
you, and render your skin beautifully subtle and clean,
and give you that peculiar charm which is always
associated with the superb Toilet Preparations of No. 4711.
Note
Trade Mark.
r
1
Ins
2
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION j
mourn, uvii ano boweu, /
In Nature’s Service.
Men, women and (especially) children need at
times a corrective, laxative remedy when Nature
is sluggish in her duties. Biliousness, headache,
indigestion and flatulence generally indicate a
constipated condition, and the surest, safest and
pleasantest help to Nature is
sd
This ideal household laxative has gained its
great reputation by sheer merit, as it is quite
opposed to old-time ideas of drastic purgation,
and acts thoroughly but gently and naturally
upon the liver, stomach and kidneys without any
discomfort at all. Be sure, therefore, that you
ask for California Syrup of Figs.
Emphasise the word CALIFORNIA when purchasing, and look for the circle Trade
Mark in Blue at top of package. From all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
d
A Smart Patent Leather
Tie Shoe for Ladies &
The Shoe illustrated is one of Fashion’s latest fancies— fo r
style, fit and finish it cannot be excelled.
In patent leather, with round toe and Cuban
heel, it may be had with pump soles, at - -
16/6
Or in same style, but with hand-sewn, welted sole, at 211-
Note. —lf you should be ordering from any-
where in Victoria, add 9d. extra for postage,
or Is. if from any other State. Send for
Shoelight,” our illustrated booklet—free.
LEEM/NG’S BOOT STORES,
109. Swanston St., Melbourne; land 3 Errol St.,
North Melbourne ; 303 Ohapel St., Prahran.
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced to 6d.
SUTTON’S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
FAT
I Women
made
THIN!
[39
V\R\
r 14
i \ I/'H
Ten Thousand Fat Women have been per-
manently reduced to Normal Weight.
“FATCURE”
makes life worth living. It reduces the weight
permanently. Gives back the graceful curves
of a good .figure. Strengthens the heart, and
gives perfect health where only indifferent
health had been existent owing to the accumu-
lated internal fat.
SEND 2d. STAMP FOR FREE TRIAL SAMPLE
and full particulars, or call if convenient.
“FATCURE” is absolutely harmless, and is
pleasant to take. When removed the fat does
not come back. HOURS, 9to 5.30.
THE WATWORTH CO., SUITE J,
inden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
[6
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St, Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
LOVERS’ ENEYGLOPjEDIA..
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
the knowledge imparted by this book unlocks the gate. It
considers the whole subject from the time you meet until
you two are one. Valuable chapters about dress, personal
appearance, cure for bashfulness, many things heretofore
secrets. Reproductions of curious love letters and Fifteen
Hundred tit bits in prose arid poetry that .you.cap find
daily use for.P.N., 2/6; posted, 2/8 (stamps, 2/16) will "bring the
book by mail,and happiness with one you love. Anglo-Am-
erican Pub’ngCo. George St. Sydney. Mention this paper
Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
: —O
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
Frootoids are elegant in appearance and
pleasant to take; they are immensely
more valuable than an ordinary aperient.;
they remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them/
The beneficial effects of Frootoids ar£
evident by the disappearance of headache,
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient medi-
cine to take when any Congestion or
Blood Poison is present, or when Conges-
tion of the Brain or Appoplexy is present
or threatening. They have been tested,
and have been proved to afford quick
relief in such cases when other aperients
have not done any good at all.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver;
a dose taken at bed-time, once a week, is
highly beneficial.
A constipated habit of body will be .
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a dose
of Frootoids, instead of an ordinary
aperient. The patient thus gradually
becomes independent, of Aperient Medi-
cines.
Price 1/6. Chemists, Medicine Vendors,
or the Pronrietor, W. G. liearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.,
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
To Users of Acetylene
sfd
Gas.
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
and increase your
light hy using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and - we will
forward, post free, l doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN (£b CO. Ltd,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
An epitome of the Arnst family:— Brother
“Jack” was the first to crash into public notice, b.v
establishing the fastest time in the Dunlop Test from
Timaru to Christchurch in ’O3. He followed this up by
making 1 a world’s record when he won the VVarrnambool
to Melbourne road race the same year in 7hr. 43min. In
this tussle “Dick” practically paced his brother to
victory. Three years afterwards, Dick, refusing to join
in any combination whatever, won the Sydney Thousand
of 1906 absolutely on his own from the 75,vds. mark,
beating Walter Rutt, of Germany, by over a length.
This brought him .£750, and the sensational finish was
well worth it. Dick is said to have banked about £650 of
this money, and returned to Maoriland, where a number
of sporting gentlemen, Convinced that he had in him the
makings of a world champion, sent him to Sydney to be
taught rowing on the Parramatta. At first he got in one
side of the boat and promptly fell out of the other, and when
he at last managed to keep afloat, he pulled boat after
boat to pieces. His giant strength was apparent from
the first; the only question was, would he manage to
apply it where it would do the most good ? He did it to
such purpose that the rowing crowd unanimously refused
to take him on, till Pearce gave him a chance. He won
easily, and promptly challenged Webb to defend his title.
Webb failed, and Dick is champion. It is now said that
Arnst, who is a fair amateur with the gloves, contem-
plates attacking the heavy-weight bruising championship
of the world. As he is only 25 years of age, there are
more unlikely things than that he may yet be heavy-
weight bruising and sculling champion *of the world
simultaneously. The third brother, W. O. Arnst, the
baby of the family, has, so far, not won his spurs, but
Jack and Dick predict that he will eclipse both of
them in the near future.
» * ir #
William Webb, Arnst’s rival and victim, was
born at Port Lyttelton in 1879, and in his early youth
took to the water, and later on became a cyclist and
runner of local renown. It was at Akaroa, in 1896, that he
broke his egg—first in the Maiden Pairs, and second in
the Double Sculls. Then he won the Maiden Pairs at
Little River, but could not get a place in the Youths’
Pairs and Double Sculls at Christchurch. At single scul-
ling he was always a whale, and till Arnst wiped the floor
of the Wanganui with him, his only conqueror was
Whelch, at Wellington in 1905, when he was said to
have been quite untrained. He buried Whelch the fol-
lowing season at Picton. His first professional effort was
against Stanbury on the Wanganui River on December
25, 1906, for £2OO and the championship of Maoriland.
In 1907 he wiped out Charles Towns most decisively on
the Parramatta, and took the championship of the
world which George Towns had handed over to his
brother. In February, this year, Tresidder came at him
on the Wanganui and was licked, and while the sweat of
his victory was still upon him he was challenged by
Arnst, who defeated him on the 15th of this month. He
is an iron worker by trade, married, and his family
consists,of two little daughters. He is said to be quite
convinced of Arnst’s supremacy, and is unlikely to
challenge it.
■****
A reminder of E. M. Grace is the cable an-
nouncement that he has resigned the billet of secretary
to the Gloucestershire Cricket Club. “E.M.,” the. first
of the Graces to appear in the cricket field, has turned
his 67th year. He was reckoned the best batsman in
England when his younger brother “ W.G.” was known
only as the best amateur bowler ; but after the latter had
developed into a great batsman the elder brother began
to drop out of the running in first-class cricket. For a
while there were three Graces among the top-notchers—
“W.G.,” “KM.,”, and their cousin “G.F." The last, a
brilliant bat with uncertain nerves, died long ago.
**. * *
That great Australian enterprise, the Dunlop
Rubber Co., has issued a fine set of three-colored post-
cards of five subjects, including portraits of Australasian
road champions T. Laycombe and Mat Chappel; also J. T.
Dorrohue, winnqr of the last Warrnambool to Melbourne
race. Cyclists can get these cards from the Dunlop
Rubber Co.’s Sydney and Melbourne offices.
DISTRESSING INCIDENT OF THE JAPANESE GOLF
CHAMPIONSHIP MEETING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Newspaper files which arrived yesterday show that, the
annual contest for the golf championship of Japan was
held on the 18th of last month, on the Negishi links, at
Yokohama— Sydney Telegraph.
Lo 1 the crack from Nagasaki,
Club in hand,
Tees his Haskell for first whack. He
, Takes his stand,
Wraps his kimono about him,
Hits the sphere a mighty clout; dim
It becomes while dread and doubt grim
Flood the land.
Follows Tei, the home top-notcher.
Breaths come short.
Will he foozle—prove a botcher?
His retort
Is a drive to the horizon.
Nagasaki hisses “ Pison ! ”
And moves green wards with his eyes on
Tei, to port.
Through the grass, though, Tei does badly ;
Things look ill,
His supporters watch him sadly,
And they fill
All the atmosphere with wailing
As he “cuts” his ball, which sailing
Sideways, gyrates o’er a paling.
Score —one, nil.
By the camphor-trees and lacquers,
Past the rice-
Fields, troop Nagasaki’s backers,
And the price
That they offer on their hero
Sends the local’s hopes to zero.
Tei begins to look like Nero
Placed on ice.
At the twelfth hole Tei js ‘‘ four down ” ;
Misery,
Speechless rage, and puzzled awe crown
All, for he
Had been, hitherto, the wonder
Of the district. Each fresh blunder
That he makes tears hearts asunder
Horribly.
Nor with iron, cleek nor mashie
Is he strong ;
Not so Nag. ; sure is his bash. He
Can’t go wrong.
He surmounts ditch, bunker, stymie-
Hear him brag, “ You cannot lie me
ANYwhere, but I will hie mg
Out ere long.”
A most foolish vaunt to utter.
By yon post
See ! A pond. Tei’s backers muttei
“ We’ve no ghost
Of a hope if they continue.”
Then to Nag. they murmur : “ In you
Go, old sportsman ; we will pin you
To your boast.”
Envoy.
'Neath the slime and sedge of ages
Lies a bag :
And the storm-fiend o’er it rages
On his jag ;
In it—slashed and mutilated,
As though multitudes had sated
Their revenge on one they hated —
Slumbers Nag.
n.s.w.
J.B.D.


I o rn m m
Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
" THE FOOD.”
DON’T BUY YOUR BICYCLE
IN A HURRY.
Have it bu:!t to your order by your local maker and thus ensure
the essential quality of suitability to an extent that no ready-made
bicycle can give you.
Above all, specify that it be built throughou of
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings
and make it an absolute condition that the B.S.A. Trade Mark of
“three piled rifles’’ shall appear upon every component part. Get a
B.S.A. Handbook; it is worth reading and tells you all about the latest
B.S.A. designs, describes the improved Eadie Coaster Hub, Two
speed Gears, Free Wheels, &c., and will enable you to get a
bicycle built that will be a revelation to you. Do it now.
Write to
D Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd
5 STOCK EXCHANGE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
dsd
HICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
s. H. McDonald, Manager.
TASMANIA.
The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
HIGHFIELD
.The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged and Re-
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite for the
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class Cuisine.
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &C.
the celebrated
ÜBS
JAY
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened by patented improvements, and there are no
irritating seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this marK
on every garment.
ANY GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters.
JAY fe F/^
TRADE
MARK
o.
s^^RINKA^
Wholesale only—l. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.
SMOKE
3T
REFEREE TOBACCO,
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
IP
'EORGE HOTEL,
* «St. Hilda., Melbourne#
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
sfď
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CAT ARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgia, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st„ Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
sfd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free. is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
S*nd Stamp for Illustrated. Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
ooonn
Th ; Wayback Series.
Av ilia laughed !! ! No. U.
uiu. :ps laughing. Bed Harry t s
=<
■//
'A
%
! DON’T
TAKE DRUGS!
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude-shocks too much, and at best can only bo
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£,500 REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold hy us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit JBSOO to anyone proving
the contrary.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
OFFICE HOURS: 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
JOSEPH R.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY. V
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name
Address
...2


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE_ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
ITons
;waratah7 TTitoooo
•COMMONWEALTH 6611
VVAKOOL .. .. 5018
Commander. Sails
J. E. Ilbery
T. J. Hine
F. Hanson
..Jan. 9
.. Feb. 6
.. Mar. 6
r Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON
CAPETOWN and NATAL
£l6 to £57
£l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RE .^?; N . AND STOP OVKR TICKETS INTERCHANGF.
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Ilf : J ° HN SANDE «S<>N> CO.,
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : CEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual Qife
LI M ITED
and Annuities
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811
Policies Unconditional', Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
tiavelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.’g., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, li.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
(Established 18SS.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
fair, interest,
east terms.
WE
&
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.-W.
|QoitdepieteO.«i|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLERSAGH Sr., 74, SYDIyTEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C. Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.) ; J. Campbkll-Wood Esq •
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collina-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
IiIpKHA E FUND (Invested in Debentures
Spook, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Jljnetors : F. K Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
bii)|(|i, Ksi)., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; Jotin Grice, Esq.:
Ijtffi. J. M. Pratt ; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES UOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FItKDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
=w 1 ■"? 1 u!
“THE IDEAL WAY TO
SEE EUROPE.”
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to sceneny
and places of interest to suit his client*. Also First-Class
Touring Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
STANDARD BRICK MACHINE
sfds
śfds
Makes Twenty
Concrete Bricks
One Operation.
Three men
make 5000 per
day. Make
your Bricks
on the job.
Write for
particulars.
J. J. STEELE,
Sole Agent,
104 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
Deutscher L/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
Mar S s S eii^ E Gi S hr h^? ked T to vpt - Na P les . Genoa, Alters,
' Hies, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
via NEW BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA.
MANILA .. .. .. ~ » 12th JaN.
ddi'mt EMAR Twin scre ") .. 9th FEB.
PRINZ SICISMUND (Twin-screw) .. 9th MAR.
Seatt ' oir l? Qualities Maximum Speed,
ftisL ormm'' B^ st Accommodation, Exoellent
S'Z XSZ ■ r ° r bM " p “‘" u1 *” Wr
698. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Brid^e-street.
Adelaide 6
_ Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
, , , , ar, °
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
rriHE LONJh, HAND is tlie logical complement
of Ihe Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
Oeorge Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
śf
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
January 20.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
February 20.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES —Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, &c. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Avplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES: '
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 ... £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line!
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE'received only on dav of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
J HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
s
CRUISES. \
AND
THE ISLANDS.
porta), Brisbane and
Sydnej 7 , combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
SPECIAL SUMMER CRUISE TO THE
WEST COAST SOUNDS of New Zealand
THE MAGNIFICENT STEAMER WAIKARE will leave Dunedin on Saturday,
Ibth January, for a cruise amongst the beautiful West Coast Sounds of New Zealand, passing
„ , .. about! WLLVL DAYS amidst scenery surpassing- even the famous Fjords of Norway °
itxtra tune will be allowed in Milford Sound to enable tourists to visit the SUTHERLAND FALLS (1904 ft)
the highest in the World.
UUMAROA, leaving Sydney on the 9th January, and the turbine steamer
7l! X DunedfX 0m Me,bourne ? n th ° 6th January, Will c lonnect with the WAIKARE
in uuncam. !nr Leaflets and EuLl Particulars apply
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD., 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Banking,
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,550,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,750,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street,
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED. ■
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of |)eui South ||jales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. _. 1.600,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... .. '2,500,000 0 0
£6,600,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellak, M.L.C., President.
TneHon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Richard BiNNiK. Esq.
Auditors • -> WILLIAM Harrington Palmer, Esq.
• / SIIEPHEARD EDGECLIFF LaIDLET, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.c.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through,
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the’ United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking- business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
A Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Banking, &c.
'lhe Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Raid-up ...
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital ..
£1,461,003 2 6
1,240,000 0 0
1,500,000 0 0
£4,201,003 2 6
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Katkk, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. E. W. Knox, Esq.
A. J. Ox show Thompson, Esq.
Auditors : F. W. Hixson, Esq. ; \V. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A..Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: Creoi-g-e Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: VV. It. Sayers.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
H. H. Massie, W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - <£500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &e. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
KALODERMA
SOAP. JELLY. POWDER.
For the Complexion .
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. Yong-ala, January 15.
S.S. Grantala, January 30.
S.S. Bullarra (from' Fre-
mantle to N.-West Ports),
January 12.
BRISBANE,
MACK AY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, Jan. 9.
S.S. Innamincka, Jan. 16.
Best and Cheapest Haute to (tolddelds.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies rfn all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascerta ntrt
on application at the Company’s Office ascertained
G. S. YUILL Si CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSAGERIES J^jjARITIMES.
FRENCH' MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS
_ LEAVE SYDNEY AS UNDER :
YARRA
VILLE DE LA
CIOTAT
ARMAND BEHIC..
Commander Sellier ..
Commander Barillon
Commander Guionnet
Noon, Jan. 25
Noon, Feb. 22
Noon, Mar. 22
Tabt S Winei MOxNEY ’ £27/i/ ~ to £B2 / 10 /-- including
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with the other Mail Companies, issued at trreatlv
reduced rates. J
J. LOTH,
_ , 0,0 Acting: General Manager in Australia,
rel - 37S - 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERB,
•FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.ni., SATUR-
DAY, January 9.
BOMBALA, 2 p.rn., SATURDAY,
January 16.
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and oarffo for S.A.,
Gulf Forts, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
BURRUMBEET, 2 p.m., TUES-
DAY, January 26.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACIiAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
January 9.
ALLINGA, ft p.m., TUESDAY,
January 12.
PEREGRINE, 2 u.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 16.
_ Passenper Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
State S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
„^?,^omn°JX! CES SUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram),
lelephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Ageing, George-street, Sydney.
F. Id. A.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “DORSET.”
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - 12th January
» ~ ~ SYDNEY - 16th January
>. n >• HOBART - 20th January
» » ~ MELBOURNE - 27th January
~ ~ ADELAIDE - 2nd February
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Olass.
LIVERPOOL*! [ £49 10s ‘ £Vi 13s ‘ £l5 15;i - £l7 17s '
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane :
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.


EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES... *
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing' One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
V
touts
£y e$
%
#
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortsrasre Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repay in"
up to 20 per cent, of the loan durin" any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax.Esc. General Manager.and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Under Vice-Repeal
śd
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereasrh Streets.
PT- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
STOCK.
Telephone 2138.
" A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
PATERNOSTER’S
um PILLS Mi
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Mother sbou\d be \N'vXbo\it Vt
O'cv vec^est.
/!propress/ve to/etary adapted to toe prom/?p to/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food IM?I I Milk Food N? 2 j Malted Food N 93
from A/rto to 3 mon Ms I from Jto 6/no/?Ms I from 6 moatos upwards.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
sf
A «2!fljrajP
I
It aets like a charm !n
DIARRtKEA
r 9
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago, &c.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, wh<~> have
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the world , in bottles , Is. 1 id. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each.
WARNING -Every bottle Of the GENUINE FREEMAN S CHLORODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the ‘ ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman’s Chlobodine, Ltd., London, S.E., England.
ITTT A 'R'MTP'Q bronchitis
llljAltlN £1 u cure.
The Famous Remedy for
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARIME,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
sf
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
From “ Jo, ther Cobbler ” :
Here, I’ve been readin’your bloomin’ paper this last
ten year, and now you go and let that there cove [Op
spoil a man’s bizness. Yer ain’t got no bloomin’ feelin’.
Wot yer want to go an’ print sich a drorin’ with them
rotten snakes in it for ? The dash snakes is bad enough,
speehully that cross-bred with the legs on ’im, but w’en
you let a feller what can’t have any feelin’ put ther
blamed things in boots, it’s ther damd limit. There.
Spare me days, I came ’ome a bit seedy larst nite, an’
was sittin’ on me bunk lookin’ at me repairs, and
wondrin’ if I could get thru’ ’em all be the end of the
week, wen, Holy Mozes, I sees that there crossbred snake
a sciekin’ 'is ’ed out ov a tan boot. I looked away from
’im and watched a pair of blukers, but out came that
bloomin’ cove wif his mouth open. I felt dead wet and
got inter me bunk, but them repairs wuz all over ther
floor with ther street lamp shinin’ on ’em thru
me windy, and in every dashed boot wuz one of
them snakes —great big coves wif their mouths
open, but the worst wuz ther bloomin’ crossbred.
I looked away from ’im at a pair of kid’s boots, but ther
cow got out of ther boots and waddled acrost the room
like a old duck, an’ stands up on ’is tale in one of ther
kid’s boots. Wot kind of a damd snake is he any’ow ? I
never seed anythink like it before. I stood ther rotten
things for erbout a hour cause some of ’em were atween
mean’ ther door. I thot I wuzgoin’ mad, so I kloses me
ise tite and sticks on some clos standin’ up on me bunk,
but, blkne, I wuzn’t takin’ on puttin’ on me boots. They
was under ther bunk and I no there wuz a snake or to
in ’em. I opens me ise quick an’ ’as a look at the
dor, and calkerlated I could git there in one jump
from ther bunk. It was a ’ell of a risk leppin
over them repairs full of snakes, but I takes it
on and butted me nadgit inter ther dor. I
opens itlivly an’ never stops runnin’ till I gets to Bill me
cobber’s plase. ’E keeps a chip tater joint. I gives ’im
ther strong of them snakes, and wants him to come up
ter see if he could see any, but he wusn’t havin’ any. He
sez it is all doo to Nervs, an’that I’ll soon get over it,
hut wot I wants to no is ’ow will I git them repairs dun.
Fair dinkum, I am dead wet ter look at a empy hoot.
Yer ain’t got no bloomin’ feelin’ erbout yer or yer
woodn’t let a feller like that ’Op wot mussn’t have any
feelin’ erbout ’im dror sich a ’orrible Pictur’. Torit
erbout drivin’ bloomin’ capitul outer the country !
P.S. —Them repairs wood stand me in erbout thirty
hob. Tell that chap ’Op.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.vS.W.
C/>e LEADING
HOUSE
sfd
oporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHINO AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting: Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP •• •
CAN
T
B
BEAT
Matt yg
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, to ...
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
sfd
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF 'NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Meriue
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book py De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Trices, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-tq-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, ls;post,ls3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers'
of Paris, Is 6d. History oV the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. . Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. Howto
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
ss
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior g-uide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Riano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man llis Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handyijook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. . How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood; ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybaciis, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ffiSF - Established, 25 years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. ou> Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Bancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
SArpiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing' Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
*0
cuaran^^~ >
PIPES
to thcTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from at! Tobacconists
npHE BULLETIN POST GAUDS.—New
| Series, IY., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion”
the only machine- on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
fiv* 1
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
|| “Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ’’
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of anv charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it, Weclaim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-vear guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograoh will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., o pp . C.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W,
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
fd
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE 17
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
• Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seeasmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. i). MORRISON,
Froprietor, 39 Hunter-street, i^ydney.
Sample bottles olid, full particulars , by poit,
Is. 4d. i stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration: Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULTA Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
R n TFS. d hv all Chfirnixtx.
2£ Britisb=H«stralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
f\r\ POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
in vited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It ; s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


OtlK
axo
T
r
My
F avouriteX
Summer N \
Beverage is
‘Montserrat 5 ""
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the Pennine “MONTSERRAT.”
LADIES’ TAILOR GUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for:
/ERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/G.
SHIRTS from 4/-
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
< —.
The
Triumpl)
%
or
K
i
TYRES
The Mlchelln Grand Prix Square Treads are the
practical result of the lessons learned from the big
Mlchelln triumphs In the Florlo Cup, tfce Targo Florio,
the Grand Prlx, and all the big International motoring
events in which Michelins figured with such conspicuous
They are the same type of tyre as used by Nazzaro
in his big Mlchelln triumphs.
Made with a narrow tread and greater depth, the
new 90 size is equal to the old 105, and the new 105 to
the old 120, and so on.
ASK TO SEE THEM.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. Ltd.
k:
234 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY,
and
226 Flinders Lar.e,
MELBOURNE.
-***9*.
N:
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
sfd
We don’t believe any Aceordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Aceordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
p#>-*
* live dW I •
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fokl Bellows with steel corners. Price JG1 7s 6d ;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
A Metamorphosis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Globe Hotel, one of the oldest hostelries, has been
demolished to make room for a big drapery establishment.
—Daily paper.
THE tears stand in our eyes to-night
Not maudlin tears induced by wine,
No ; that which dims and blurs our sight
Is tender, sentimental brine
Our pride is past, our days decline,
The world seems sorrowful and strange ;
A shadowy Hand our fears define-
The Hand of Change.
’Tis laid on that idyllic site
Where drinks were always long and cool;
Where tap and tankard glittered bright
As moonbeams mirrored in a pool;
Where landlords of a vanished school
In snow-white aprons served the Bar,
And brought us three drinks —as a rule—
To one cigar.
How oft that pleasant haunt we sought
The Lesser Gods alone can say ;
How many drinks we daily bought
Depended on the kind o’ day—
The men we met with on the way—
Our like, or dislike, for a spree
And, possibly, one ought to say
Our £ s. d.
How many memories centre round
That shrine of Bacchanalian rites !
The joyful harmony of sound
That swelled to Heaven o’ festive nights—
The tales, the jokes, the fun, the fights,
The foolish freak, the fuddled state,
And—Nemesis of reckless wights— .
The Landlord’s Slate !
All, all are gone for evermore,
Like Villon’s snows of yesteryear ;
Bar—barmaids —landlord, and the store
Of potent spirits, wine, and beer,
With all the good things that could cheer
The downcast heart, the frozen soul :
There nevermore shall we uprear
The Flowing Bowl !
7'here nevermore, glass touching glass,
Sit, godlike, in our pride and state,
And, careless how the bright hours pass,
Drink death to Grief and scorn to Fate,
All things in Heaven and Earth debate,
And match ourselves against old bards,
, And feel that they were not so great
By many yards ?
There, nevermore, full-throated sing
The mighty choruses of old,
Which made the welkin rock and ring
When nights were long, and dark and cold;
Nor freely fling the hard-earned gold,
Nor kiss our favorite Hebe’s cheek —
Why not ? Because the Pub. is sold
Of which we speak.
Sold and pulled down ; unfitting doom
For such a place of wit and worth !
A rag “ Emporium ” fills its room—-
A hideous brick-and-mortar birth
Wherein the “ Greatest Sale on Earth”
Is held thrice-yearly —Heavenly Powers,
That such a fate should gulp the mirth
Which once was ours !
So, then, where once we laughed and lingered
And drank deep draughts of eau-de-vie,
Sateens and bombazines are fingered,
And linens, lace, and lingerie
Displayed for all the world to see ;
And where the Beer that sots got “ stiff” on,
And where the Bottles used to be,
They sell pink Chiffon !
Corps di Bacco ! But it grieves
Old topers, proud of just renown,
To picture sales of stays and sleeves
Where once they tossed “ long-sleevers ”
down !
’Tis a sad fact no drink may drown
That where they lavished gold in ounces
Girls hunt the “bargain ” hat, or gown
With sham lace flounces.
Where once we flung the silver dollar
Down on the har, a maiden stands
Clad in sad black, with cuffs and collar,
The primmest of Emporium “hands” —
Her troubles about stars or brands !
What if we speak kind words to her ;
A haughty air, a frigid stare,
A withering “ Sir !
And where mine host was wont to sit
And cut a ham, or loaf of cheese,
Frock-coated figures glide or flit
With Janus-face and “ Forward, please ! ”
They step as if they trod on peas,
And all are tall, and all glib talkers ;
Shade of Silenus ! what’ are these ?
They are shopwalkers.
V
Write “ Ichabod\' —and end all this,
The theme’s too sad to be pursued ;
A mournful metamorphosis
Which through the glass of Time is viewed ;
One crumb of comfort will intrude—
Hotels, like men, meet with reverses,
And Drink and Dress, though here at feud,
■ . Are dear twin Curses !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
Various Virtues.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UP on the plateau for most of the year
it is hot enough in the daytime ; but after
you have cooked your tea and had a
smoke, when you stroll up the gully for a talk
with the men from the Lucky Touch, there will
be a cool breeze and a faintly-musical, restless,
tropical night, black on the sky-line, with a
beautiful, intimate Heaven of brilliant stars above.
On such a night it was that Pearl Mander began
her labors at Bull Creek, while Jigger Hance
came up from camp with his mate, Len Syder,
and made for Mander’s wallop shop.
Even as the two men entered, Pearl Mander
took her place upon the short, narrow bench skirt-
ing the refreshment-table. Pearl was a new
arrival. She had come through from the coast
the previous evening, after a hundred-mile tour
along rough and dusty roads, and had created a
good deal of unusual excitement in the wallop
trade of Bull Creek.
Jigger sidled in, keeping his hat on as is usual
in the wallop shops of the Gulf. He punched
Len Syder with his elbow, under cover of the
crowd which thronged the humpy.
“Cop th’ lot in pink!” he murmured, in a
hoarse whisper.
The lot in pink glanced across to the doorless
doorway and smiled a kindly smile.
“Good-evenin’, Mister-er !” she said, and the
crowd turned and, for a second, looked fiercely
over its shoulder at the pair. Then Pearl twanged
the bass string of her guitar and picked out a
chord, and laid her finger lightly across the strings
in a tricky contortion, and produced an angel’s
whisper. The crowd fell silent. Dummy Crowles
began to sing ! .
Dummy Crowles had no particular melody m
his voice, and he knew but two songs. His hat
was jammed upon the back of his head, and a lick
of yellow hair flopped upon his forehead, bouncing
there in time to the rhythm of the song. At his
neck there was nakedness, where the shirt opened
to his collarbone ; and he wore soiled khaki pants
and bluchers. Plis choice in song was misleading,
but the company appreciated his selection, for a
roaring chorus went up at the end of each verse.
Dummy was unmarried, and a fairly steady
drinker,; and his travels had taken him up and
down the length and breadth of Australia. His
domestic and other virtues were few —wherefore
he sang:—
'E never cares to wander from ’is own fireside !
’E never wants to travel or to ro-o-oam 1
With ’is children round ’is knee 'e’s as ’appy as can be,
For there’s no place like ’ome, sweet ’o-o-ome !
There was no applause at the end of the song.
The chorus included the applause.
“I’ll ’ave a hop,” demanded Syder, edging
round to the little bar, built in a corner remote
from the door. Mander, brother of Pearl, stood
behind the bar, and opened hop and chili and
ginger with the swaggering celerity of the potman
who knows he is doing a solid cash trade.
. “Same,” muttered Jigger, following after
Syder. V
Mander nodded in the direction of Pearl.
“That’s me sister, chaps,” he said, with his
corkscrew into a tight bottle. “ Goin’ ter give
me a hand while th’ missus looks after the kids.
Goin’ter stay six months.”
Syder looked at the back of the pink musician,
admiringly.
“She kin play it a bit,” he said, and Mander
beamed, Svder was the pugilistic king of Bull
Creek. Further, he and his five mates were on a
good thing with the company, and were each
drawing £6 a week out of their contract. Where
there is money, men like Mander are prone to
beam, and Mander beamed upon Len Syder with
the slightest inducement.
“She’ll be a treasure t’ me,” he said, and the
hop beer foamed in the long glasses.
' Mander had been at Bull Creek for some six
months before Pearl was induced to come up from
the South. His connection with wallop had
brought him good money, and it occurred to him
as a brilliant move to ask his sister for her aid in
the social side of his'labors. The sister-employee
is usually a cheap article, and not given to de-
manding her wages at inconvenient moments.
As for the wallop trade, it is the natural out-
come of Gulf conditions. It is a huge trade, too,
and requires but little capital. Mander was a
carpenter, and when he struck Bull Creek and
went to work for the company he had but £5 in
his blueys. Later he left the company’s employ,
after building himself a somewhat pretentious
bark humpy, and started his wallop shop.
Wallop, as every Gulf-dweller knows, means
soft drink. In Northern Australia it is nothing
for a man to pass by the pub and go to the
wallop shop. At Bull Creek, which was neither
more nor less moral than any other similar tent-
township, there were two pubs—of a sort ! —and
three recognised wallop shops.
To Mander’s place, particularly, the crowd
came in its dozens. It was impossible for them
to come in hundreds, for there were not more than
a hundred men on the field ; but on the night
following Pearl’s arrival, Mander’s bark dwelling
was crowded to its uttermost, and Mander took a
surprising amount of money at the little bar in
the corner.
On this evening Mrs. Mander and her two
small children occupied an inner sanctuary of
galvanised iron, to which a door opened from
behind the bar. At intervals, a fretful howl
would come through from the privacy of this
quarter, unnoticed by the crowd except when a
grinning wag now and then passed some feeble
remark as to the family troubles of the boss.
Pearl Mander had certainly found a peculiar
billet. Her duties began at six o’clock o’ the
morning, and she had already been acting as
nurse, housemaid, cook and bottle-washer.
And now, with the roses as yet blooming upon
her cheeks, and with a tireless smile brightening
for every newcomer, she sat there endlessly pick-
ing at her red-ribboned guitar.
Len Syder took his drink, wiped his mouth
with the back of his hand, and drew out his pipe,
which he proceeded to fill, watching Pearl the
while with an eye of appreciation and interest.
By-and-bye he detached himself from the society
of Jigger and spoke to Mander again.
“Y’ kin gi’ me an intro,” he said, in the half-
jocular tone of a modest strong man, who knows
that he has but to express a simple wish for it to
be granted.
“ Ye-es ! ” said Mander, cordially. “ Come on,
Pearl! ”
Pearl turned, and an avenue opened between
herself and Syder.
“Shake ’ands with Mr. Syder.”
Syder awkwardly pulled off his battered felt
and advanced towards Pearl, transferring his hat
to his pipe-hand, and holding out a large paw to
the guitar-maiden.
(Continued on next ’page.)
SUFFERED SEVERAL YEARS.
LIFE ONE LONG, CONTINUAL HEAD-
ACHE.
COMPLICATION OF LIVER AND
STOMACH TROUBLES.
AN INTERESTING CASE.
Of the many marvellous cures which have been
wrought by LAXO-TONIC PILLS in Australia
recently, the case of Miss N. Brear, “ Ngahuia,”
Avenue-road, Mosman, N.S. W., is one that par-
ticularly illustrates the benefit which is derived
by the use of this remarkable new remedy. She
writes as follows :
“For several years I suffered acutely from a
complication of Liver and Stomach Troubles.
Instead of obtaining nourishment and benefit from
the food I ate, I got nothing but pain and distress,
Frequently I was unable to retain my food ; some-
times not being able to keep down even a cup of tea.
Headaches were so common with me that I might
almost say my life was one long, continual head-
ache. I often had bilious attacks, and was on
these occasions so giddy that I dare not attempt
to stoop to pick up anything for fear of falling. I
consulted doctors, and tried numerous medicines
that claimed to cure complaints such as mine, but
neither the medical attention I received, nor the
numerous patent medicines 1 consumed did me
an atom of good. Indeed, I was very near
coming to the conclusion that all these medicines
were nothing but frauds, when I saw an advertise-
ment of Laxo-Tonic Pills on Perth (W. A.) Rail-
way Station, and was thereby induced to purchase
a box. I took these Pills, and I can only describe
the change they produced as simply wonderful.
By the time I had finished the box I could eat
heartily, and retain my food without the least
sign of biliousness. In fact, I could eat as much
as a pound of meat for one meal, and it did me
good. After another box or so of Laxo-Tonic
Pills I was completely cured of the Liver and
Stomach Troubles and Biliousness, Headache, and
Giddiness, which used to so burden me. This
proves to me that the Laxo-Tonic Pills effect a
radical cure, and do not merely gloss over one’s
illness with a temporary relief.”
Laxo-Tonic Pills are the most remarkable de-
parture in therapeutical science of recent years,
being, as they are, a unique combination of laxa-
tive and tonic principles never before used in a
like preparation. If you are troubled with Con-
stipation, Indigestion, Heartburn, Biliousness,
Flatulency. Anaemia, Rheumatism, Piles, Head-
ache, Dizziness, Pimples, Pains in the Back,
Liver Trouble, Sleeplessness, or Bad Breath, a
short course of Laxo-Tonic Pills will soon put you
right again.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores at 10|d. for the regular size, or Is. 6d. for
the double size, or post free from the Laxo-Tonic
Pill Company, 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
N.S.W., upon receipt of price.


A QUEENSLAND MAN'S TERRIBLE PLIGHT—SUFFERED FROM
INDIGESTION FOR 25 YEARS—COULD NOT TAKE SOLID
FOODS—THOUGHT HE WAS INCURABLE.
TPHE following alarming and apparently “ incurable ” case of Indigestion,
* and the remarkable success achieved by Bile Beans after doctors
and other treatments had failed,
further illustrates the never-
failing virtues of this great
family medicine.
“I suffered from indigestion for 25
years,” says Mr. H. Batchelor, of 49
Denison Street, Rockhampton, Q’land.
“I could not digest any solid food
whatever, and was forced to live on foods
that were very easily digested. For
14 years these foods formed my only
repast. Meat and vegetables were
altogether out of the question. Should
I attempt to eat anything solid, vomiting
would be the inevitable outcome. I
consulted several doctors, but their
medicines failed to afford relief, and I
was in a bad state of health when a
friend, who had proved the worth of
Bile Beans, advised me to give them a
trial. I am happy to say I followed
this advice, and purchased a box of the
Beans. The first few doses afforded me
great relief, and, cpntinuing the course,
my digestion was greatly improved, and
am gaining strength rapidly. I strongly
advise fellow-sufferers to give Bile Beans
a trial before they have been forced,
by the failure,of other medicines, to the
conclusion that they are incurable.”
m
2%
The Standard Family Medicine.
As a summer medicine Bile Beans are unequalled. By toning up the liver and
stomach, and gently opening the bowels, they promptly dispel summer fag,
languor, lassitude, fatigue,
headache, debility, loss of appe-
tite, anaemia, and. ensure sleep
by restoring Nature’s healthy
functions. Bile Beans are the
most efficacious of modern
family medicines. Obtainable
everywhere at
1/14, or 2/9 large
family box (con-
taining three
times the 1/14).
ONE BEAN ONE DOSE
Wans
eauty’s Favourite,
Ti\e article which excels all others
in improving' the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
MatcHless for tHe Complexion.
‘ Phased to meet you!” murmured Pearl.
-Do you sing ? ”
T he men around them guffawed. Syder looked
. usmngly ground, and took a seat on the
table close to Pearl.
’h, e answered, his glance taking in the
details of her face and form, “ I don’t sing. You
play somethin’.’'
Pearl set forth upon an endless waltz, and the
men smoked and talked and drank huge quanti-
ties of mysterious beers. At twelve o’clock or so
they gradually dispersed to their camps.
.Len Syder was the last to leave. J igger Hance,
coming back to drag him off by main force, found
him still sitting upon the table beside the good-
tempered Pearl, who was trying to show his
clumsy fingers the first principles of guitar-
playing.
S pose y don’t know that girl’s been up sence
six o clock this morn’ ? ” he said, once they were
outside the shack.
Aw come off ! ” muttered Syder, and giggled
consciously.
-That night was the first of a succession which
brought to Pearl the plainly-voiced but gentle
adulation of a long line of admirers. For Mander
it meant a large increase in cash, and for Mrs.
Mander a life of piggish ease and indolence.
Each morning, as the sun flashed up into the
sky from the coast, and the carrion birds made
slowly for the killing-place back from Halligan’s ;
whe’p , the songsters stirred in the scrub at the
bade of the bark hut, and commenced their morii-
ingitydelodips, Pearl Mander put on her apron-
more often than not she retired for the night in
her day-clothes, utterly fatigued—and started in
on the long day, with a heavy head and a heart in
which there was small room for joy. Mander
was a hard taskmaster, and Pearl drew no wages.
She was supposed to have come up from the South
on a holiday—and she had travelled steerage.
Before many weeks had passed, Pearl found
that her one ambition in life was to be rid of her
connection with this domineering, penny-scraping
relative of hers. The Bull Creek life appealed to
her—the sounds and the colors and the smells.
And she was able to enjoy none of them.
One Sunday afternoon Syder came down to ask
her to go for a walk with him to a spot where
rock-lilies grew’ —a place unknown of the Bull
Creek “talent.”
In the evening he strolled down to the wallop
shop and found the nightly concert in full swing,
with Joe Hogan on his feet, bellowing a song of
heartrending sentiment.
He edged in and perched upon the table,
moving presently closer to Pearl, with his feet
resting upon the bench on which she sat.
Pearl looked up at him and murmured some-
thing. Syder bent down.
“ Sam ga’ me beans about this afternoon,” she
whispered.
Syder looked angrily across at the beer-opener,
who caught his eye and smiled conciliatingly.
He leaned over again.
“Neve’ mind!” he said, softly. His voice
gave her the sensation of a caress. " She leaned to
him, the crowd unseeing, busy with its drink and
song, and as she played she rested her arm against
his knee.
Late that night—moonlight, with the dim, un-
ceasing music of the tropics in the air—Len Syder
and Pearl sat side by side upon a flat boulder, in
the shadow of a tufted outcrop which towered
above them.
Her eyes were blue deeps of shy laughter as she
slipped a naked arm about his neck.
“ Yes, I’ll marry you, Len ! ” she said, and put
her chin affectionately against his hard, grey-
shirted shoulder. Her mouth invited him.
Thereafter followed a week or two of vivid life
for Pearl—commencing with the warm, black
night, lighted with a low moon and the radiance
of friendly stars, on which she stole out of
Mander s shack to meet Syder, who was waiting
to take her down the road to Halligan’s. Thence
the coach for the coast started at daybreak. Then
catne a repetition of her dusty, comfortless drive
from the coast, punctuated by stop-overs as
Syder’s wife at hot and unkempt bush pubs ; her
arrival at the coast town, with its mixed popula-
tion of uncouth browns and yellows and hardy
whites; her putting up with Syder at the ram-
shackle weatherboard pub humorously labelled
Ryan’s Central Hotel, where she stayed pending
arrangements for benefit of clergy ; Syder’s meet-
ing with a bunch of “two-np” professors; his
melted £6O of hard-earned cash ; his sullen temper
and angry threats.
And then there was a day, a fortnight after his
departure from Bull Creek, when Syder, alone,
hot, dusty, road-worn, walked brazenly into
Mander’s wallop shop and banged a coin upon
the counter.
“Gimme a hop beer!” he demanded, and
looked Mander squarely in his flinching eye.
Then, drinking thirstily, he turned on his heel
without a further word and strode out of the
shack, making for the office of the company.
And Pearl Mander, toiling in penniless shame
at Ryan’s Hotel, bent desperately to a new
job of dish-washing, forced upon her by an inexor-
able, virtuous Mrs. Ryan—whose cook was a
Chinaman.
FRANK HENTY.
A Forgotten Innovation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PERHAPS, of all our former habits, handed
down to us in common with the other
vertebrata, none has fought so tenaciously
against being evoluted out of existence as that of
walking on all fours.
The “ affectation of walking on our hind legs,”
as Swift has it, did not become fashionable with-
out a desperate struggle on the part of Dame
Nature.
Of course, I do not intend at this time of day
to open up the rights and w r rongs of that sore and
bitter question again. Least of all do I hold a
brief, or intend to hold one, against the custom
.of walking upright, which has now come to stay.
I believe the matter has been settled for all
time, as far as adult humanity is concerned, and
in view of the strife and heartburnings that took
place in the beginnings of that great, and so-long-
:ago, reform, I think it is best to let sleeping dogs
lie.
Personally I have no hesitation in affirming
that all my leanings are on the side of the great
• change that was made. The new method is more
-dignified, stylish, dashing, chic , progressive, and
has amply justified itself.
Measured as a matter of utility alone, good
reasons for it can be stated in hundreds. Take
space, for one. At a not-unusually-crowded
reception the other day I counted something over
a hundred ladies and gentlemen, and they took up
in all about as many square yards of space among
them. Sometimes a couple got together on one
square yard. Yet 40 ladies going round on all
fours would have crowded the premises, and the
rest of the company would have had to graze in
the adjacent paddock. And when a lady lifted
her front feet off the ground to take a sandwich
with them it would be almost as bad as if she ate
it off the floor.
But further, beloved brethren, away and be-
yond all this, consider what a master mind it must
have been that broke away from ancestral habit
and resolved to use only two feet for walking, and
club his prey or his enemy with the other two.
Hannibal, by comparison, was small potatoes
and few in a hill.
He, or it, the thinker, was the Cromwell, the
Mahomet, the Edison of his species, and may
be dubbed the Prophet of the Links. Persuad-
ing himself, and no doubt some of his fellows,
into swinging along erect on their hind limbg,
they found their height doubled, and themselves
placed out of the category of the surrounding
animals.
I can well imagine the wild and woolly story as
it must have happened.
At first, like all reformers, the would-be pro-
phet was received with derision. His appearance,
as he awkwardly balanced his body to give ocular
demonstration of his theories, was an easy butt
for low humorists. Nevertheless, he persevered
and gathered a following of some sort.
But it wasn’t a following of the sedate or the
sensible, or the influential, or indeed any of the
solid elements of society.
What had been good enough for their ancestors
was quite good enough for them ! No Link had
ever before walked on its hind legs, and they were
not going to be the first to try, thank you. It
was unsafe for one thing. What need for such
gymnastics when one had four good limbs to
plant down firmly ? And the thing that was
nearest to an alderman in that hairy community
smiled at the bare idea !
It was indelicate too. Were respectable
matrons of the pack, for instance, to rear them-
selves up on end and go about like that ? And if
not, why not ? So the revolutionaries were pre-
sently told that if they intended to live up to the
new heresy they would have to clear out of that
conservative community and be a flock, mob, or
herd to themselves. “ They shall not stop here
to corrupt good breeding, and we hope no respect-
able animals, at all events, will consort with
them,” said the mayoress of the Links, and the
respectable matron Links undertook that none of
their daughters would be found among the new
set.
It was formidable opposition, but not formid-
able enough to kill. The arch reformer, the
prophet, was driven out neck and crop, but he
took a following with him —a following, too, of
just the sort that would be most useful to him—
■the lawless, the radical, the devil-may-care of the
pack, all youthful and eager for freedom.
These withdrew and found caves of their own
to herd in, and set to practising hard at the new
balancing trick, until they beat their teacher at it,
until they could stand, walk or run almost as we
do at the present day. And in all their added
powers of accomplishment, they found out in a
very short time what they had missed out of life
through not knowing it before !
Then they learned to throw rocks and wave
clubs with their unemployed front feet, and
straightway there was an army to which the old
prostrate Links were as the hordes of Darius before
Alexander. Instead of a slow horizontal Link
running away from his enemy there was a swift
perpendicular Man running after the enemy.
And he ran like Sheol, though Sheol wasn’t
invented in those days.
Imagine the consternation and terror among
the lower fry, on seeing these unwonted monsters
coming towards them.
‘ ‘ What forms are these stalking this way,
erect ? Kings of nature, indeed, they must be,”
said the Lower Animal, as he turned and fled like
the Devil.
Yes, he incontinently fled, only to find that the
Erect One had a running stride of six or : eight
feet, and came after him like the wind.
When that wild band went back to its native
caves it went as a horde of relentless conquerors,
and all the “solid” and aldermanic pillars of
that hairy, ancestral society were ruthlessly slain
and eaten. So were all the respectable matrons,
except such of the younger ones as promised to
stand upright; and they were taken away, along
with the lovely daughters of the community (the
daughters were simply compelled to stand up-
right, and clubbed if they didn’t) to be the wives
of the new community.
But as for the bulk of the old crowd, its name
was Mud. Even the body of the horizontal Link
general was never found after the battle.
Thus it was we learned to walk. But the dor-
mant “ all fours ” instinct, of our earlier forebears,
is only dormant. It is still there, as anyone con-
versant with the business of getting infants “on
their feet ” can testify. In fact, it has always
been a favorite theme of speculation with me to
wonder how long it really would take a child to
learn to walk, if indeed he ever would, were he
not taken in hand in early infancy and laboriously
taught to fight this old “ all fours ” habit. How
often does the despairing modern mother, who
thinks she has done the deed at last, behold the
little eel throw all her teaching to the winds, and,
flopping down on the floor, go for what he wants
—which is generally the cat or the coal-scuttle—
in the style of the old folk ?
Would he ever learn to walk if he were not
taken so young ?
In the interests of science, this should be
ascertained. If any Australian mother (white)
will leave her baby at my address, and sign it
over to me, and give me £soq, I will turn the
offspring out on the grass-plot at the back and see
what Nature will do for it.
G. BRON.


“I attribute my present good health to the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is now three years since I first
sfd
sfd
used it. Previous to that I
was in very bad health. Had
no appetite, could not sleep,
always felt tired. It has built
me up and I feel like another
woman. I strongly advise
women in delicate health to
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as I
am sure it will do them good.”
t Mrs. E. Harrison,
G-awler, S. A.
When tired and debilitated, with
weak and irritable nerves, you need
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you are
not persuaded to take some other Sarsaparilla claimed to be
“just as good.” See that you get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
Ride only
BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free
JT. B. BROOKS &Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,'
England.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing' Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
| COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name I*
sfd
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all wtodvCM
m
y.itM
vn
among: wnom are:
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Grocei s and
Hardier are
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung& Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.V., ps.a
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
Th® Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SIH6LETONS EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1506.
::: QUjjjgg
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
ABk your chemist for its history—the book is free -or write
S. GREEN, islO, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
BEWARE
\
of drinking impure water and
incurring the risk of
TYPHOID.
sfd
THE ABBOTT
Australian
FILTER
has been proved by the severest bacteriological
tests to effect a complete barrier to the direct
passage of water=borne diseases.
Fountain Filters,
from 20/- each.
Pressure Filters,
from 20/= each.
Used by leading S.S. Cos., Public and Private Institutions.
Write for Catalogues to—
N. QUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
/ /
V*
Hi
,4.
N
k
J
s
śfdsfd
ďs
fdf
Racing has been abolished in N.S.W.
by the makers in the design of
The “Steel (Dings” pdmill
j in a unique manner, without the use of
i complicated wind-jamming brakes. _ A
.j simple balance gear to counteract the weight
: of the pump-rod is another feature which
; makes this Windmill the only suitable one
i for pumping water from great depths, either
in wells or bores, in large quantities.
1 Other features are :
Great Strength. Large Sail area.
A bearing on each side of the windwheel.
Moderate First Cost.
Lubricating Oil the only after cost.
The Steel Wings Windmill Go., Ltd.,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
invite you to inspect their works at any
time when you are in Sydney, or to drop a
iine to Department 0.
ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift.
MEN
NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted ersonaliy or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 dally.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Heme Cure,”
May be bad from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr Martin now a copv will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Svo, over 50d Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, tip-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medioal books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on
an receipt of this adversisement. 'fSfrZNote Address ;—
Men’s special Ailments”
PR. MARTIN, M.D., «&mtoy Htuse,» 151 Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. ,,, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


A Saving Hose.
If you get a good hose at first
you will find it the most*
economical in the long run.
Here is a grade we can
thoroughly recommend. You
will find others listed in our
new catalogue, sent free on
request.
RUBBER HOSE (A sample)
—3-ply x £in.: 17/6 for 30ft.,
35/- for 60ft. ; gin., 21/3 for
30ft., 42/6 for 60ft. ; fin.,
23/9 for 30ft., 47/6 for 60ft.
HEAVY DELIVERY—
S*n- x 3-ply, 27/6 for 30ft.,
55/- for 60ft.
d
m
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,"
270 George Street, Sydney.
CLEAR YOUR LAND OF RABBITS
with the TYREE RABBIT DESTROYER.
CLEAR YOUR TREES OF RESTS
with the TYREE SPRA YER.
PROTECT YOUR FRUIT with the
AUTOMATIC BIRD SCARER.
LIGHT YOUR HOUSE with the
TYREE ACETYLENE GAS GENERATOR.
SEND FOR COPIES OF TESTIMONIALS TO
TYREE LIMITED,
3/4 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
"
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
IWater 9
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
ƒd
ď
đ
d
đ
Write tor
“B”
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
fd
Rider.
ďśfd
PLASMON
COOK
WITH
YOUR
FOOD,
PLASMON is the whole nourishment of pure milk, and added to your ordinary
food will render it
More DIGESTIBLE, more DELICIOUS, 10 TIMES more NUTRITIOUS.
Ask your Grocer also for the following preparations ready combined with PLASMON
<#“ <£*
> f o o v* o o
PLASMON LTD., LONDON. Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Mat-Virtue
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY.
Head Office Address
MOFFAT-VIRTUE
“CURRAGUNDI," BULLARAII,
27th November, 1908.
MESSRS. MOFFAT-VIRTUE, LTD.,
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
Dear Sirs,
We finished shearing 1 here on Die sth instant, having put
through 80,250 SHEEP with 15 SHEARERS. The Moffat-Virtue
Machines went splendidly without a hitch from start to finish. This
is our fifth shearing with your machines. All the machinery is as
good as new still. Yours truly,
, H. T. SIDDINS, Manager.
f
PROMPT ATTENTION
TO ALL ENQUIRIES
GUARANTEED.
LIMITED,
7 Bent Street,
Sydney.
f Sob-Agents :
VICTORIA : D. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing(W.A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Murdoch Bros., 77 Macquarie Street, Hobart,
Sp is ,FERRANTI, LlL* SYDNEY.
li PTC BA HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE : E. S. & A . Bank Chambers, George Street
METERS. SWITCH GEAR, High and Low Tension MEASURING INSTRUMENTS.
We do Business that brings Repeat Orders. Send us your inquiries.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION,
By STEELE RUDD.
Cloth binding', posted free, 6s.
• , /
FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., 2*4 George Street, Sydney.
COLORED POST CARDS,
/By HARRY J. WESTON.
“ WEEKLY WORRIES,” set of six, posted free, 6d.
FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., 214 George Street, Sydney.
NO SHRINKAGE. NO FIRE RISK.
Interchangeable Metal Bushings to fit all sizes Shafting.
THE AMERICAN ALLWROUGHT
STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
has following easily
recognisable vir
*es
A STRENGTH AND RIGIDITY that renders it practically indestructible.
A WEIGHT two-thirds less than that of the ordinary Cast-iron Pulley, and about same
as most wooden ones.
A PULLEY that, besides having unique lightness and strength, is true running, perfectly
balanced, and positively safe under highest speeds.
THE ALL-STEEL PULLEY is rendered interchangeable by the use of metal bushings,
and will fit shafts of different diameters.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST.
AGENTS:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
1 70. GLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
STOP <& carefully CONSIDER these important FACTS
ummmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mammmmßammmmaummtmmmammmmmmmamamßmn mi i
LATEST TRIUMPH.
22 MACHINES
installed at the Stratton’s
Independence, Colorado.
When Mines of such importance as
BlocK 10, Mt. Bischoff, Wallaroo (Si Moonta
instal throughout
THE CARD Concentrator,
IT SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
V/‘
t-sssej
N. GUTHRIDGE
■ v r
LTD., Sydney and Melbourne.
■ ■
