

'<>■ . . :■
*
The Whisky for Men of Taste.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— *
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Herbert’s
Machine Tools.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne,
HOBART.
jadlgij’s Orient jotil
PIQ.NEE'D
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Take it back.
1 must have—
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand JJaCON
FOR
SAFES
Ml. 5
r.
HANSEN’S
J
HANSEN’S
unket
•arw-w an -j.
ta b l ets
TABLETS.
*
<j Ha
U
■
m u v
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
It*s “ The Twisted Goodness
of the Cords 99 that make
THE PALMER CORD TYRES
the Tyres of the moment -the Tyres that are as different to all others as a modern P Class Railway Engine is to a Cobb & Co.’s Mail Coach.
7ou%utaJ^ ther before
yvu purchase any other kind of Tyre.
TME S/LVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, SYDNEY.
I
AL
Cff
s the Queen oM Cocoas
FO\
|Arom^Stre%th£-Purit>c|
MALTHOID ROOFING, besides being waterproof, is proof against acids,
fumes, dust and vermin. It will neither rot, rust, nor corrode. Being
in rolls, it is easily laid, and is the most suitable and economical roofing
for any class of building.
PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAI
MANAGER), 6 MARTI]
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
C * A. MacDONALD,
P,TT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues.
Thorne s whisky.
MARTELL’S
Owe Star (Si Three Star
BRANDY.
Non spa water
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water: }
Ist—Rapid absorption, 2nd-Rapid circulation, 3rd Rapid elimination, J
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
fol >'<>• 1543.]
[Thursday, September 9, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


BOOKS OF THE DAY.
Lubbock : Deep Sea Warriors, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Jacobs and Holman : Australian Mercantile Law 25s
postage 9d.
Kingsland : Scientific Idealism, 9s, postage Bd.
Barr : Cardillac ; a novel, 3s 6'd, postage 6d.
Strand Magazine, latest vol., 6s 6d, postage Is 3d.
Birch : Modern Riding and Horse Training, 7s, post 6d
Arnold, M.: Culture and Anarchy, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Hackensehmidt : Wrestling, 3s, postage 4d.
WITH PARTICULARS OF THOSE REVIEWED
ON THIS PAGE.
Sha,w, G. B. : Press Cuttings, Is 3d, postage 2d.
Mordaunt: Rosemary, cloth, 3s 6d, postage 4d.
Lucas and Le Souef: Animals of Australia, 15s, p. 9d'.
hearcy: In Australian Tropics, 3s 6d, postage 7df
Vivienne: Sunny South Australia, 10s 6d, postage Is.
Rent: A Chinese Vengeance, Is, postage 3d. B
Davidson : Fleet Street and Other Poems, 6s, postage 6d.
O Dowd : Poetry Militant, Is, postage 2d.
Butler : Carburettors, Vaporisers, etc., 7s, postage 6d
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP.,
7~~ - .
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
• er* an ideal remedy * 1 h “'"‘
LUSTRAUAK
MEDICAL GAXETTt SMS
g.Hudson!
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing: No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug:.
Suited for Old and Young.
Thk Lakckt says: “Proved to be effective baetericidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike couffh medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interefere with the Digestion; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/0 in Stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY; LTD., « york street, Sydney.
The RED PAGE
A Shavian interlude
Bernard Shaw's last three plays— Getting
Married, The Doctor’s Dilemma, and The
Showing Up of Blanco Posnet have not yet
been published, but there has been a great
deal of Shaw in the London newspapers lately.
He has demolished the arguments of the
asinine Censor, and incidentally punctured
the self-esteem of H. G. Wells. In the in-
tervals of his letter-writing he has thrown off a
one-act farce, a Shavian “open letter” about
suffragettes, the conscription, and a number
of other things, and has called it Press
Guttings: A Topical Sketch compiled from the
editorial and correspondence columns of the
Daily Papers. (Constable, Is. net.)
In 1912 martial law has been proclaimed
in London on account of the violence of the
unenfranchised, and on the Ist April the
Prime Minister, Mr. Balsquith, has to dis-
guise himself as a woman in order to get
through London, and tie himself to the door-
scraper to get into General Mitehener’s rooms,
The .situation is serious, and the Prime
Minister wants Mitchener’s advice. The
advice he gets is very simple instead of
sending the misguided women to Holloway,
and killing them slowly . . . shoot a few
promptly and humanely. . . ,
Balsquith : But public opinion would never
stand it.
Mitchener (walking about and laying down
the law) : There’s no such thing as public opinion.
Balsquith : No such thing as public opinion ! !
Mitchener : Absolutely no such thing. There
are certain persons who entertain certain opinions.
W ell, shoot them down. When you have shot
them down, there are no longer any persons enter-
taining those opinions alive; consequently, there
is no longer any more of the public opinion you
are so much afraid of. Grasp that fact, iny dear
Balsquith, and you have srrusped the secret of
government. Public opinion is mind. Mind is
inseparable from matter. Shoot down the matter
and you kill the mind.
Their discussion of the German invasion
and army discipline is interrupted by a depu-
tation of anti-suffragists. Balsquith receives
them while Mitchener calls the charwoman,
Mrs. Farrell, to get his uniform. She tells
him that the only uniform available is that
of General Sandstone, and complains of the
way that General swears at her.
Mitchener : When a man has risked his life on
eight battlefields, Mrs. Farrell, he has given
sufficient proof of his self-control to be excused a
little strong language.
Mrs. Farrell : Would you put up with bad
language from me beeause I’ve risked me life
eight times in child-bed?
Mitchener : My dear Mrs. Farrell, you surely
would not compare a risk of that harmless,
domestic kind to the fearful risks of the battle-
field ?
Mrs. Jarrell : I wouldn’t compare risks run to
bear livin’ people into the world to risks run to
blow dhein out of it. A mother’s risk is jooty ; a
soldier’s is nothin’ but divilment.
Mitchener (nettled): Let me tell you, Mrs.
Jarrell, that if the men did not fight, the women
would have to fight themselves. We spare you
that, at all events.
Mrs. J arrell : You can’t help yourselves. If
three-quarters of you was killed we could replace
you with the help of the other quarter. If three-
quarters of us was killed, how many people would
there be in England in another generation ? If it
wasn t for that the men’d put the fightin’ on us
just as they put all the other dhrudgery. What
would you do if we was all kilt? Would you go
to bed and have twins?
Mitchener: Really, Mrs. Farrell, you must
discuss these questions with a medical man. You
make me blush positively.
Mrs. Farrell (grumbling to herself): A good
job, too. If I could have made Farrell blush I
wouldn’t have had to risk me life so often. You
'n’ your risks V your bravery V yourself-conthrol
indeed ! “ Why don't you conthrol yourself ?” I
sez to J’arrell. “ It’s agen me religion,” he sez.
Mitchener (plaintively): Mrs. Farrell, you’re
a women of very powerful mind. I’m not quali-
fied to argue these delicate matters with you.
Mitchener hears his disrespectful orderly’s
statement of the feelings of a common soldier
deprived of political rights before the fero-
cious Mrs. Banger and atrocious Lady Fan-
shawe, of the Anti-Suffraget League, finally
drive the poor man to desperation. He con-
fesses to the latter ,: —
I am not clever at discussing public questions,
because, as an English gentleman, I was not
brought up to use my brains.’ But occasionally,
after a number of remarks which are, perhaps,
sometimes rather idiotic, I get certain convictions,
j. hanks to you, I have now got a conviction that
this woman question is not a question of lovely
and accomplished females, but of dowdies. The
average English woman is a dowdy, and never has
half a chance of becoming anything else.
Mrs. Banger sits on old Sandstone’s
head until he proposes ; Mitchener then asks
the practical Mrs. Farrell to marry him,
and Lady Fanshawe consents to become
Balsquith’s Egeria, and tells him that he may
sit at her feet.
Balsquith (doing so): That is my ideal of
romantic happiness. It commits me exactly as
far as I desire to venture.
The Censor refused a license for Press
Guttings, and, as iin the case of Blanco
Posnet, he stated his reasons for doing so.
That was a mistake. An autocrat should
not argue or explain. It is likely to un-
loosen the foundations of respect. The
Censor stated that he would pass Blancc
Posnet if certain passages were omitted. He
did not object to the obvious immorality
of one of the characters, but to the
statement that she had had “ immoral
relations ’; he did not object to the
general irreverence or blasphemy of the
play, but to three or four irreverent
sentences. As The English Review says :
“ What sort of person is" Mr. Redford ? He
will license any kind of play turning upon
leering vice; he revels—as a Censor—in
what silly young men call ‘dining with
actresses. * He will pass any kind of breach
of the seventh commandment, as long as the
‘guilty parties ’ escape punishment.”
Press Cuttings was censored because it
contained “ personalities expressed or under-
stood, and the Censor's department had a
rule that living persons are not to be repre-
sented on the stage. For other reasons
Granville Barker’s IVaste was tired out, and
ltd ward Garnett’s The Breaking Point
thrown after it. It is stated that the Censor
objected to the expression “amorous god-
desses ” in one of Yeats’plays on the ground
that “ it would offend many people and give
pleasure to none ! ” Garnett relieved his
feelings in a paper read before the Playgoers’
Club, which is printed in the July Fort-
nightly. Barker is printing his play as
Shaw has done : but Shaw also organised a
Civic and Dramatic Guild to give a techni-
cally private performance of Press Guttings
at the Royal Court Theatre. Shaw delights
in shindies and in advertisement. He is
certainly getting plenty of both.
Mixed Australian
One passage/in Miss Mordaunt’s Rosemary
stands-out surprisingly from the graceful
frippery of the rest :
I would rather have coarseness than inanity any
day. I would rather fill my days with the broad,
robust writings of Smollett and Fielding than the
graceful fripperies, the genteel refinement of the
modern American authors. I used to adore
artistic people ; I do not now ; I would be better
pleased any day to spend my time among rough
sailors, with the pungent salt winds whipping life
into us, hardening our hands and strengthening
tree™ th ’ wi v^ r | ti!i the soil and fell the
2 he Animals of Australia — Mammals, Hep-
tiles and Amphibians —are described in popu-
lar and scientific fashion by A. H. S. Lucas
Souef (author of
Wild Lite in Australia), and illustrated
with about a hundred and fifty photographs
(YVhitcombe and Tombs). This is a volume
which all “Abo.” readers should have, as i
gives information about our fauna that some
of them are always seeking. There is an
account of the White-footed Jerboa Eat, who
\Seems to be a link between the pouched anc
unpouched mammals, and whose ancestors
have been found in the Pleistocene oi
N.b. W. The Nest-building Jerboa combines
with his fellow rats to construct a tenement
house—beehive-shaped, with compartments
one for each family. “Abo.” contributors,
if not already satisfied, are authoratively
informed that the young of the kangaroo
are not born in the pouch ; and may
get here pretty well all that is known
of the boougarry, or tree kangaroo.
An anecdote is quoted to illustrate
the sagacity of the opossum, which,
like the cat, came back home from 65 miles
away. The acrobatic feat of a tiger snake,
observed by a Government Surveyor near
Mount Wilson, N.S.W., takes some beating.
It was enjoying a sun-bath—stretched along
the top wire of a fence, the folds of the body
being perfectly adjusted to maintain the
delicate balance.
Among the interesting freaks are the
knobby-tailed lizards, the moloch horridus,
and the lung fish, which has a section to
himself. The platypus, which is our prize
exhibit in natural history, gets more space
than any other ; but all are treated with
sufficient fulness to be easily identified.
The book has evidently been written with
great care and is printed excellently. For
scientific students it will take an honored
place with such monographs as Froggatt’s
Australian Insects , Stead’s Fishes, and
Krefi't’s Snakes.
A volume called Sunny South Australia
(Hussey and Gillingham, Adelaide) has come
to us from the authoress, Mrs. May
Vivienne. It is as full of information as
a guide-book, but much more brightly writ-
ten and most gorgeously “ gotten up ” in
cream and gold. Besides, it is profusely
illustrated. The information was gathered
by the authoress, who travelled some 4000
miles to get it; <• and what there isn’t in it
about S.A. can’t be worth knowing. Mrs.
Vivienne is generous with her adjectives in
referring to the people she met; and is
unusually modest (for, an author) in placing
her portrait at the end of the book instead
of the beginning.
SNOW.
“Who affirms that crystals are alive?”
I affirm it, let who will deny:—
Crystals are engendered, wax and thrive,
Wane and wither; I have seen them die.
Trust me, masters, crystals have their day,
Eager to attain the perfect norm,
Lit with purpose, potent to display
Facet, angle, color, beauty, form.
Water-crystals need for flower and root
Sixty clear degrees, no less, no more ;
Snow, so fickle, still in this acute
Angle thinks, and learns no other lore :
Such its life, and such its pleasure is,
Such its art and traffic, such its gain,
Evermore in new conjunctions this
Admirable angle to maintain.
* • * «
Worlds of men and snow endure, increase,
Woven of power and passion to defy
Time and travail: only races cease,
Individual men and crystals die.
Jewelled shapes of snow whose feathery showers,
Fallen or falling wither at a breath.
All afraid are they, and loth as flowers,
Beasts and men to tread the way to death.
Once I saw upon an object glass,
Martyred underneath a microscope,
One elaborate snow-flake slowly pass,
Dying hard, beyond the reach of hope.
Still from shape to shape the crystal changed.
Writhing in its agony; and still,
Less and less elaborate, arranged
Potently the angle of its will.
Tortured to a simple final form,
Angles six and six divergent beams,
Lo, in death it touched the perfect norm
Verifying all its crystal dreams 1
Such the noble tragedy of one
Martyred snow-flake. Who can tell the fate
Heinous and uncouth of showers undone,
Fallen in cities ! —showers that expiate
Errant lives from polar worlds adrift
Where the great millennial snows abide ;
Castaways from mountain-chains that lift
Snowy summits in perennial pride;
Nomad snows, or snows in evil day
Born to urban ruin, to be tossed,
Trampled, shovelled, ploughed and swept away
Down the seething sewers : all the frost
Flowers of heaven melted up with lees,
Offal, recrement, but every flake
Showing to the last in fixed degrees
Perfect crystals for the crystal’s sake.
(From John Davidson’s posthumous volume—
“Fleet Street and Other Poems.”)
CHILDREN OF TOIL.
London Orphan Asylum.
.Breaking from the lap of the lowland pasture,
Sudden as a foam-crest single on a
Dreamy in the rich noon the old grey school-house
Palisades the heavens with spires slim and free.
Creeper-clad the walls breathe ripiing crimson,
Fiery as Youth all athirst for its day . . .
Oh, that the day might be such an one that sunset
Comes neither feared nor reproached for delay !
Fleeing from the schoolroom’s velvet coolness,
Light lulling croons to the hill’s head are spun.
Upward to the teacher demure little pupils
Turn timid faces, as buds to April sun.
Cheerily they pass through the merry lanes and
meadows,
Sombre are their dresses, their faces are as
bright;
Dreamy, glearuy Springtime is in their hearts,
but shadows
Hover in their going to strangle their delight.
When to the moon she unfolds her gardens,
Starred through and through with the pale
passion-flower ;
Then on the night hangs the life-breath of Child-
hood ;
Move with the spent leaf; it is her little hour,
Soon shab bier sweetness be yielded to the moon-
light,
Ay, the meiting moonlight soon alone shall
know
Hopes and fears and fancies, for swallow-swift
the years fly ;
Early toil is theiri, poor joy and petty woe /
Thomas Burke ('sometime charity child , working
lad. unemployed , and under-ranker) — from
The English Review.
Probably Bulvver Lytton’s The Coming
Race is not much read nowadays. It does
not occupy a high place amongst the accounts
of imaginary communities; yet it is not
without interest, and the following extract
from the remarks of one of the inhabitants
seems to be prevision of radio-activity :—
When you talk of .matter as something in itself
inert and motionless, your parents or tutors surely
cannot have left you so ignorant as not to know
that no form of matter is motionless and inert :
every partiele is constantly in motion and con-
stantly acted upon by agencies, of which heat is
the most apparent and rapid, but vril the most
subtle and, when skilfully wielded, the most
powerful.
{The Coming Race, however, was published as
late as 1871. Dr. John Masson’s new work
on Lucretius: Epicurean and Poet finds the
atom and electron, besides not a few modern
ideas, in De Rerum Natura, published some-
time B.C., and Lucretius owed a good deal
to the more ancient Democritus, to whose
shade Carl Snyder dedicated his book on
The World Machine.
The title of Elenor Mordaunt's musings in
pioso, Rosenuiry — That's for Remembrance
(*-• C. Lothian), is just the sort of senti-
mental title a woman would select for this
kind of book. It is an unpretentious collection
of notes on tilings in general, neatly written ;
but as tame and colorless as Ophelia herself*
I here is a remembrance of Elizabeth and her
German Garden, and Ella Maitland’s Day
Book of Bethia llardacre about it; and echoes
from other books start from its pages, for the
writer says truly, “My thoughts and my
memory are stimulated continually by what
other people have said about things, often
the most trival, even ludicrous.” It will be
remembered that Charles Lamb asked why
we should not have a grace before Milton
and Shakespeare, a devotional exercise pro-
per to be said before reading The Faery
Queen. Perhaps the memory of Lamb’s
essay moved Elenor Mordaunt to say :
What responsibility the writing of a book brings
with it! It seems as if before starting on so
solemn a task one should prepare oneself, as did
the kmghts of old in the solemn quest for the
'croiaen brrail, by fasting, by sacrament, by prayer.
We wonder if Miss Mordaunt indulged in
much fasting and prayer before writing Rose-
mary, and whether she or the printer is re-
sponsible for the frequent errors in names
quoted in the book.
It is in such a spirit that one takes up a
book like Alfred Searcy’s In Australian
1 Topics (George Robertson & Co.) with
pleasure. That such a book should have
gone into a second edition proves that a good
thing finds appreciation sometimes. The
preface, by E. Wlutinglbn, mentions that—
Louis Peeke and Mr. Frank Bullen
told Mr Searcy, after reading his pamphlet
(the skeleton of the present book), that with
such abundant experiences to work on
they could have knocked together a dozen
books.” “ Knocked together ” —exactly !
Becke and Bullen are knocking together
books of a rather flimsy character out of ex-
periences already used and beaten out thin.
Searcy, however, has poured into one book
the story of his lengthy career in the
Northern Territory, a story filled with real
adventures as exciting as Be Rougemont’s
imaginary ones. The anecdotes are given in
the simple fashion of one who is talking to a
mate about old times.
Essex Evans’ Queensland Jubilee Ode,
Queen of the North , printed in the London
l imes, has been published by Diddams and
Co., Brisbane, in an attractive booklet, with
illustrations by Alek Sass. After hailing
the State as the “Radiant One,” “Daughter
of the Sun,” and “ Queen of the North ” in
the manner permissible in Jubilee verse, the
ode sounds a note of warning about the open
back gate of Australia :
Sit thou no more inert of fame,
But let the wide world hear thy name.
See where thy realms spread line on line—
Thy empty realms that cry in shame
For hands to make them doubly thine—
Fill up thy frontiers ; man the gate
Before too late !
Prepare, ere falls the hour of Fate
When death-shells tain their iron hate,
And all in vain thv blood is poured—
For dark aslant the Northern Gate
I see the Shadow of the Sword ;
I hear the storm-clouds break in wrath,
Queen of the North !
The decorations by Sass are, with one excep-
tion, very effective, and the booklet has been
turned out as neatly as anyone could desire.
Opcdodes—-Patriotic ' and Miscellaneous
Verses, by Heber H. Booth (Powell and Co.,
Brisbane), informs the reader in the dedi-
cation: “Camerado, this is no book, who
touches this touches a man.” A man, may
be; but no poet. Some of the verses are
“after Longfellow,” others after Lawson or
somebody else, and these lines from the
author’s Edelweiss really define his position
as a versifier:—
I claim the right, although so crude my art,
That I a.11 rashly act the pupil’s part,
Who, with his unskilled how, would fondly deem
To wake a Stradivarius from its dream.
And thrill with melody each listening heart.
The latest addition -to the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.’s shilling novels —A Chinese
Vengeance , by It. A. Kent, is up to the level
of its predecessors in thrill and workmanship.
The action takes place in Canton, the high
seas and England, and is very willing all the
way. Though the cover design is striking
enough, the illustrations are poor. One
shows a wax match throwing as much light
in a dark place as an arc lamp ; another," of
a group, has one carefully finished head ;
the rest caricatures. If worth illustrating
at all, a book deserves better drawings than
these.


a
No. 208— Chemise in Fine Longcloth,
trimmed Embroidery, with Medallions and
Ribbons. Women’s, 3/6; 0.5., 3/11.
FOR FAMILY DRAPERY
Try a Course of
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
m
im
'■y
m
2/0
No. 210—Cliemise in Miulapolarn, trimmed
Embroidery, 5/3.
No. 400—Nainsook Night-
dress, trimmed with Valen-
ciennes Lace, Insertion and
Tucks, S/11.
3Z7
IS'o. 327—Camisole .in Nainsook,
trimmed Torchon Lace and Yoke, of
Swiss Etubroiderv. Sizes 24 to 28,
3/- ; 30 to 34, 3/4.
No. 30G—Nightdress in Madapolam, 'trimmed
Valenciennes Lace, inserted Beading 1 , with
Medallions and Ribbons. Women’s, 10/- ;
0.8., 11/-
, JJJ'
No. 333—Camfsob in Niinsdok,
trimmed Torchon Luce and Embroid-
ery. Sizes 24 to 28, 4/6 ; 33 to 34, 4/9
No. 305—Lathes’ • Madapolam
Chemises, inserted and trimmed
. Tqichon. Lace, 0/3.
Many other styles are illus-
trated in our Price List of
LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S UNDER-
CLOTHING. Write for a Copy,
posted rrec on application.
310
No. 310—Chemise in Madapolam, trimmed
Valenciennes Lace, Beading and Embroid-
ery. Women’s, 5/3; 0.5., 5/9.
No. 1795 —P.D. Corset. A
short Rifling Corset. Grey or
White Contille, lOin. Busk.
Sizes, 19 to 28. 6/-
v h , ; 1
No. 5071 P.D. Corset. A well-
modelled’Corset. Grey Coutille,
llin. Busks. Sizes l!) to 30. 10/9.
No. 8213—P.D. Dorset. (Prey
Coutille, Extended Hips,
-lliii. Busks. Sizes 19 to 30.
Terms-SPOT CASH
o
**
m
5?
m
m
9
r\
VV
No. 309—Chemise in Mada pola m,
trimmed Valenciennes Lace, Insertion,
Beading and Ribbons. Women’s, 4/3;
0.5., 4/6.
No. 406 —Fine Nightdress in Mudapolani,
trimmed Valenciennes Lace and Inser-
tion, 10/3.
No. 318 CombinationsinNainsook,
trimmed Valenciennes Lace, with
Insertions and Ribbons. Women’s
5/9; 0.5., 6/6.
The Light Running
WHITE SEWING
MACHINE is the
Best in the World,
and is sold for
SPOT CASH at the
NEW PALACE
EMPORIUM.
*
Write for Price
List, posted Free
Anywhere.
No. 503—Eine Longcloth Nightdress,
trimmed Embroidery, with Medallions,
Tucks and' Ribbon. Women’s, 7/3 ;
0.5., 8 -
o. 206—Nightdress in Madapolam, trimmed
mhroidery and Beading, Insertion and
Ribbons. Women’s, 10/6; 0.5., 11/-
& SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, vSydney
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases ot Horses
and Ca 1 11 e—Cause s,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, S/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
iledia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. ' Ne tv
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer. 1/-.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS
t>
m
i\*;/»
Diminishing:
Cards.
Ordinary
Play i n £
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
t h e r.
1 Co ni p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struct! o n s ;
anyone can
work them.
219,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card, Tricks are:— (l)The Lightning
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6tl. each;
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
catalooues 201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
THE FASHIONABLE
from 6/6 to 12/6
per IDO.
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLA \SORED.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100.
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/6 per 100.
“ Yenidjeb Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/6 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth fr leading; Tobacconists or the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYONEY.
Postage—Add Gd. per 100 to your remittance.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
BOVRIL
Tempts you to Eat and Feeds you.
Whether at home, at the office, in the restaurant, or in the
theatre, a cup of Bovril is easily and quickly procured.
ALWAYS INSIST UPON BOVRIL, AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
9
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO's ‘FRUIT Salt' assists the Functions of the Liver, Rowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventea a serious illness.
CAUTION. -Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
.•• ‘ V
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Streets', Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
w/mm//
V/
'Lrk
9©
a»*
=*
' '3ll
nw\l
fc±«L *¥sr%3
Other Models from 7/6 to 40A
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
uso of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30 /-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, post free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
Underwear.
Made in
England
AR
3QVUJ.
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments c.re made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments -also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “ BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
1. & R. MORLEY and UEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ' BIRD MARS ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
Kidney Troubles,
Flatulence and
Biliousness.
A COMPLETE CURE.
“In the background of my memory there is a
distinct recollection of many days and weeks of
physical adversity, such as I almost dread tore-
call,” said Mr. Frederick William Martin, of No.
51 Pitt-street, Waterloo, when requested to give
an outline of his infirmities, now happily over-
come, “But,” he went on. “since anything I
tell you may prove a source of comfort and en-
couragement to other poor mortals. I’ll gladly do as
you wish. Yes, I was ailing for a very long time.
A more bilious subject than I used to be you
would have to travel a long way to find, and then
I doubt if he could speak of as many disappoint-
ments connected with his illness as I can—how I
gave first one medicine and then another a trial,
meeting failure after failure, till one could scarcely
believe there was anything in an apothecary’s
shop that had not been resorted to, and all to no
purpose, when I would give all the drugs and pills
and things up in digust, only to start again later
on, through the demands of my sufferings, and go
through the same experience again. At last I
consulted a doctor, a vain hope it appeared to me
after what I had taken already, and so it proved
t.o be, for my health was no better than before.
To get up of a morning and feel that there is no-
thing pleasant to be done or thought of during the
day, may not seem in itself a very serious affair ;
but it indicates that a person’s health is not what
it should be, and if allowed to go unchecked
through neglecting to take some good medicine,
the consequences may prove more serious than
you would imagine.”
“You believe, then, that if you had taken a
remedy when you found yourself suffering from
lassitude and inability to eat and sleep properly,
you would have avoided the sickness you en-
countered?”
“ Most decidedly I do. I verily believe that if
I had taken a bottle or two of Clements Tonic at
the outset it would have Saved me pounds and
pounds, besides the intense misery I endured.
This is whfit I always tell my friends, to attack
their ailments at once with Clements Tonic, not
to wait till they get a firmer hold of the system,
because the troubles then take longer to eradicate.
Mv appetite faded, till it had completely vanished,
and I simply forced myself to eat; ray nights be-
came more restless, and I got up feeling that I
did not care whether I stood on my feet or sank
to the bed again. A dimness affected my eyesight,
a bitterness spread on my tongue, which was
always coated white, and from daylight till dark
I was never free from headaches. Small amounts
of food made my stomach most uncomfortable,
and between the shoulders it felt like a sharp-
pointed instrument tapping there every now and
then. And how fearfully dizzy I used to get be-
fore Clements Tonic got to work, besides which
my nerves were as shaky as could be. Anyhow,
I was not much good for work in those days, and
felt as wretched as though I were dead to the
world, which I practically was. Thanks tci
Clements Tonic, though, I quickly had some life
and energy infused into me, and felt that I wanted
to live and enjoy the world’s blessings, like any
other person —the reverse of what I had been be-
fore using Clements Tonic, which braced my
nerves and invigorated the system throughout, in
a manner that astonished all who had observed
my frail condition a little while previously.”
“Have you had a return of any of your old
troubles, Mr. Martin ? ”
“I can safely say that since Clements Tonic
completed my cure at the time I speak of, no
body could wish for better health than I have en-
joyed, which shows that there was no patchwork
about that wonderful remedy’s way of doing
things. If I hear a person say a headache is at
work, I recommend Clements Tonic, because it
cured mine ; should the complaint be about giddi-
ness, flatulence, kidney troubles or drowsiness, or
discomfort after eating, I tell them to use Clements
Tonic, as it cured me of those ills, and the proof
of the pudding is in the eating thereof.”
“So we can publish what you say?”
“My permission is yours—in any way you like
to conceive.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, FREDERICK WM. MARTIN, of 51 Pitt Street,
Waterloo, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth '
of Australia, do “olemnly and sincerely declare that I have
earefullv read the annexed document, and that it contain#
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure,
bv Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarilv, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oath.,
Act. ln oo.
Subscribed and declared
sixth flay of March, one
and eight, before me,
71
at Waterloo, this twenty-
thousand nine hundred
D. P. WILLIAMS.
l.Pj


Why be bald headed and old look-
ing before your time? Neglect of
the hair causes dandruff, and dan-
druff is the forerunner of falling
hair and baldness. The remedy is
Aider’s
%air Vigor
A gentleman residing at Dunedin,
N. Z., writes under date Jan. 7,1907:
“It is with gratitude I write you that I
have now a splendid head of hair, both thick
and very soft, all owing to my having used
your wonderful Hair Vigor. I was almost
bald headed before I used the Hair Vigor. I
still use it once a day, rubbing it well into the
roots of the hair. I used to wear a skull-cap,
and I am very grateful to Ayer’s Hair Vigor
for the improvement it has made in my looks.”
Be warned in time. Use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor and preserve your youth.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
ia allowed on every cycle boughr. of us. Your
money in full refunded with ut question
if uot perfectly satisfactory . Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year*, despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
KK £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
and all latcs improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE ASEKTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our tvecial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE COo, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
TTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
B of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
DOROTHY DOWNES OF WHOM THE
STORY IS TOLD.
The story of mothers who
constantly use SCOTT’S Emul-
sion for their ailing babies,
always embodies the highest
praise. Mrs. Downes, 7 Ge rge
Street, Erskineville, N.S.W.,
writes (21/8 08): “My little
daughter Dorothy was very
ill with bronchitis, rickets and
wasting disease, but after
taking SCOTT’S Emulsion for
a few months, she is now
perfectly healthy and strong,
and I am pleased to give
SCOTT’S the credit of saving
my child’s life.” A long and
continually increasing record
of mothers’ successes-that is
what best explains the dif-
ference between SCOTT’S and
every ether emulsion.
Of all chemists and dealers in medicines.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CURE!
= m
17
BB
iHiaiuioss
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE—
of “Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act,.
Obtainable Everywhere. .100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
DON’T STAY THIN!
DEVELOP YOUR BUST .
i/,
■*"
m
Every day
other women
are increas-
ing their
weight and
de v'eloping
their figures.
You can do
the same.
Try a course
of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH-FOOD”
It will work wonders for your appearance.
It increases the weight by five pounds a
week, and adds inches to your bust measure-
ment. Send a 2d. stamp for Free Trial
Sample and Free Book, or call.
FALLS ER E
“FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Dept. 5.
Lindf.n Court,
Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY
WOOD-MILNE
SHOESHINES
Black and Brown
Mud docs not stick, rain does
not penetrate, fog does not
dim the Shoes that shine with
WOOD-MILNE SHOESHINES.
Try one tin and test it
for yourself.
Of all bootmen.
2995
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER,
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wincglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
Note the name “Hunvadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNSR, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
Established 1752.
When you need a Pill, take a
Brandreth’s
Pill
PURELY VEGETABLE.
ALWAYS EFFECTIVE.
For Chronic Constipation.
Brandrltii’s Pills purify the blood,
invigorate the digestion and cleanse the
stomach and bowels. They stimulate the
liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
depraved secretions. They are a tonic
medicine that regulate, purify and fortify the whole system.
Constipation, Dizziness, Drowsiness, Coated Tongue, Cad
Breach, Headache, Pain in Stomach, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Diver Complaint, Bilious Headache, Jaundice, or any disonW
arising from impure state of the blood. sT&CS
FOR SALE BY DRUGGISTS throughout the world. 07
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., 22 Hamilton Square. Birkenhead, England.
Draw the [icture up
cl >-e before your eyes
a;*.tl w.ucri the pill
go into trie niiuih.
Established 1847.
AllcocKS Porous Plaster
A Uni versa! Remedy for Pain.
Wherever there’s pain apply ari Allpock’^Plaster.
VARIOVS VERSE
The Imported Servant.
The blue sky arches o’er mountain and valley,
The scene is as fair as a scene can be;
But.l’m breaking my heart for a London alley,
And fogs that shall never come back to me.
I choke with tears when the day is dying;
The sunset’s grand, and the stars are bright—
But its Oh ! for the smell of the fried-fish frying
By the flaring stalls on a Saturday night!
And this, Oh ! this is the lonely sequel
Of all I pictured would come to pass !
They are treating me here as a friend and equal,
But they’d say in London that they’re “no
class.”
At the thought of their kindness my tears flow
faster;
The girls are free, and the chaps are grand ;
It’s “the boss” and “the missus” for mistress
and master,
And they may be right—but I don’t understand.
I see the air in its warm pulsation
On sandstone cliffs where the ocean dips;
But I’m miles and miles from the railway station,
Where trains run down to the wharves and
ships.
Those streets are dingy and dark,and narrow,
. The soot comes down with the rain and sleet;
But it’s Oh ! for the sight of a coster’s barrow
And Sunday morning in Chapel-street!
N.S.W.
HENGY LAWSON.
The Lay of Lost Ideals.
Forasmuch as I have drunken of the bitter dreg
of life ;
Forasmuch as I have suffered for a cause ;
O, Lord of Lost Ideals, put a term upon the strife,
For your creature is a thing of countless flaws.
It was infinite, the promise, when the battle was
begun ;
But with conquest came the vision of the slain,
And we tried to hide their faces from the staring
of the sun,
And we dug their graves and buried them in
vain.
It was infinite, the failure, when the battle reached
its close ;
For the ones we strove to succor all were dead.
They were dead and very peaceful—just as peace-
ful as their foes—
And the silent fields were echoing our tread.
I, a soldier in the army that would right the
ancient wrongs ;
. I, who sought to lift the burden from the slave ;
Who went forth to tilt with evils, crying rousing
battle-songs,
Hear the voices of the vanquished from the
grave !
Yea, I slew an evildoer, and his children wailed
for bread.
Yea, I put a bloody tyrant to the knife,
And his helpless serfs were ousted from their
meagre board and bed,
And I heard the anguished wailing of his wife.
O, with fiery tongue and eloquent I lead a hungry
band
To the oasis of justice and content ;
But the way was long for many, and their bones
bestrewed the sand ; '
And the remnant reached it never, being spent.
Now, O Lord of LostTdeals, I would fain lie down
* and sleep;
Such a sleep as knows no gnawings of despair.
Let me slumber with my fellows in a coma, calm
and deep,
In the camp of all the Men Who Do Not Care !
VICTORIA.
G. G. A. COLLES.
Rosette.
You knew each dainty art and grace
Desire to whet ;
No lure of silk or scented lace
You’d e’er forget.
When to the old, familiar chase,
Equipped, you set—
A demon with a woman’s face,
My pale Rosette.
You wept upon my heart your love ;
With tender clasp
You played the pretty wounded dove,
And hid the asp.
I grant that, over and above,
No lover saw,
Beneath your faintly-perfumed glove.
The waiting claw.
But not in Passion only lay
Your witch’s lure :
Far-hidden from the light of day
In paths obscure—
As waits the were-wolf for a prey—
Your soul impure
Cajoled a victim on the way
Of anguish sure.
A path of pain and penitence,
And flint and thorn,
His flagging feet have trodden since,
With step forlorn ;
And Honor, Truth and Innocence
Betrayed, foresworn,
Like ravished virgins, bid him thence
With eyes of scorn.
Oft-times he marvels in his shame
And black regret
From what dread depth thy spirit c urie ;
What Master yet,
Fresh-risen from the Nether Flame,
To claim a debt,
In-that dark-hour shall also claim’ *"
Your Soul, Rosette.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


i
o
You can shave for several months
with each blade of the
j4ut<ystrop
because its self-contained automatic stropping
arrangement keeps each blade perfectly
sharp for many months.
There is nothing
to unscrew or take apart
for either stropping or cleaning,
and the automatic stropping does
away with the buying of new blades
required by all non-stropping razors.
The Standard
Outfit consists of
quadruple . silver-
plated, self-strop-
ping razor; one
dozen tested lancet-
steel blades; one horse- O C /
hide strop; in leather <6O/"
case 2 in. by 3| in ... NET
Sold by all leading dealers.
aamaiEM
<^^U>Strop'^
TSEBi
Descriptive Booklet free on request to the
Agent* for Australia :
Lamson Store Service Cn I ttl The Rialto, Collin* St, Melbourne
iJCrVK,C KeU.f L>lU., and 222 Clarence St. Sydney
SafeUj Razor Ga. Ltd 61 New Oxford Street, London, England
Al*o at Pari*. New York, and Montreal.
BROOKS-BEST-
Always and at all t ; mes'thoso two words are synonymous
hence, no Bicycle is really high-grade without the
Saddle bears that name.
Stocked by all Agents—Art Saddle Manual free from
J. B. BROOKS 81 CO. LTD.
The Saddle Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
M
s
Automatically make crisp, snappy Soda Water INSIDE THE FOUNTAIN.
Phenomenal success of applied science. Liquid gas pressure does all the work. Water
pressure not required. SIMPLE AND INEXPENSIVE. Repeat orders from Anthony
Hordern & Sons, Sydney, and others.
Write for particulars: NELSON CARBONATING CO., 167 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fcP*
*^r
r J -'■
PRIZES J aIue £1750
8-HOUR ART union
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30, 1909.
Ist Prize, value £5OO ; 2nd Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The FirSt Prize last year was won by Mr. A. Moorkhousk, Henderson
Road. Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
“ A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “Th*
Bulletin ” Office
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
IS
Hi
I
■ 1
§
* T
-
fi
-.
-V.
.
:;r -:-w, '
SB
* ; i
>lll
-■I
w
1
.
%m
tm
■ I
. AL
*
HI
ydr\ey v Brisbane
’ 'v


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1543.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1909.
Price 6d.
THE GREAT FROST.
What Dr. Cook found at the North Pole. And we had been wondering where the poor thing had got to.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384- Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly' ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Till! Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Bn si.7ie.ss Communications
to he addressed to William Maoleoii, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed, to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin.” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
soinetimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be ref used.
The contents of this paper are. copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part, of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tins Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. 'is forwarded, without stamps
for return it 'will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of M receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transniission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivinas in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct I'evroduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby, Adelaide—at U/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tint Bulletin van be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Liulgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The. Central Neius Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 441 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
Neivs Agency, Los Angeles City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, HO Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6'iin. x lUin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1909.
MELBOURNE’S “WILD AND DESERTED”
BACK-DOOR.
Tait’s train fell through a bridge the other day,
itnd it was only by special good fortune that no
lives were lost. Tait is the Canadian railway
manager who was imported to show the Vic-
torians how to run their lines. He had his train-
ing in a country where the railway slaughter is
about the worst —if not the very worst —on earth,
and quite a rush of railway burials have attended
his footsteps in the land to which he came. One
of the reasons assigned for the railway slaughter
of Canada and the U.S. is the building of cheap
bridges, with very little margin of carrying power,
and the bridge which doubled up beneath the
Maryborough train is said to have been built on
Canadian principles. But these are side issues.
The accident took place at McCallum’s Crossing,
near Maryborough, and the scene is thus described
by the Age :
The locality is wild and deserted, there being no houses
within two or three miles of the Crossing.
That statement is an absolutely true bill. McCal-
lum’s Crossing lies in the fertile county of Talbot,
not far from Melbourne. Talbot used to be well-
peopled, but it isn’t so now. The lack of a
graduated land-tax or any other precaution against
the buying up of small farms to make big estates,
the disease of earth-hunger, the growth and mul-
tiplication of the earth-hog, the curse of the House
<>f Rich Landlords, the curse of Bent and Alfred
Deakin have all fallen heavily on Talbot. The
McCallum’s Creek breakage happened in the
middle of a huge estate which was built up by
long persistent swallowing of farms that were
once clean and well-cultivated and well-inhabited.
Now the unwieldy property grows thistles in
plenty, briars with frequency, and rabbits in
abundance, and it has produced in the last 40
vears or so a certain quantity of wool and three
•Jiildren. It isn’t much in the way of children
or an estate which is so large that, when you.
are in the centre of it there are no houses within
two or three miles. The most adjacent dwellings
outside the property are those of two farmers who
have reared big families, one on 123 acres, the
other on less, fighting the while a desperate battle
with the thistles and rabbits' that pour in on them
from the great untaxed holding alongside them.
Probably they too will be swallowed up in time,
for the swallowing progress is very continuous.
* * * *
It is difficult to say exactly when the big land-
grabber first began to exterminate the population
of this fertile county which lies at Melbourne’s
back door, but here is part of the record :
Population op County of Talbot.
IS7I .. 84,762 I 1891 .. 59,088
1881 .. 67,963 | 1901 ... 57,398
It is a dreary, horrible record, especially for a
county which is intersected by four separate
railways, and which has had railway communica-
tion for 35 years ; but there are so many records
just like it in land-monopoly-cursed Victoria that
it excites little surprise. By reason of the growth
of huge estates there is little for a young Vic-
torian to do except go to Melbourne and turn
artisan, or else get out of the State and seek for a
farm in some place where the land-stealing dis-
ease isn’t yet quite so bad. The following
official estimates of population show how the
curse of the big estates is working out to-day,
despite the pretence of the Bent Government
that land-jobbing was presently to make the
desert blossom like the rose
Population of Victoria.
Greater Other Rural
Melbourne. Towns. Districts.
1901.. .. 496,079 206,550 498,712
1902.. Increase 6,041 Inc. 1,110 Inc. 2,678
1903.. Decrease 60 Dec. 650 Dec. 1,580
1904.. Increase 2,900 ~ 1,243 „ 3,000
1905.. ~ 6,940 „ 579 ~ 1,381
1906.. ~ 9,100 Inc. 1,597 Inc. 3,858
1907.. „ 11,200 ~ 2,517 „ 6,071
1908.. „ 11,400 ~ 2,040 ~ 4,923
543,600 211,342 510,281
So the figures may be condensed thus :
Increase of Victorian Population (7 years).
Melbourne .. .. 47,521
All other Towns .. 4,792
Country Districts .. 11,569
Or again :
Melbourne .. .. 47,521
Rest of Victoria .. 16,361
Or let it be put another way :
Extent to
which Mel-
bourne has
got ahead
Rent of of the Rest
Melbourne. Victoria. of Victoria.
1902.. Increase 6,041 Increase 3788 2263
1903.. Decrease 60 Decrease 2230 2170
1904.. Increase 2,900 ~ 4243 7143
1905.. ~ 6,940 „ 1960 8900
1906.. ~ 9,100 Increase 5455 3645
1907.. ~ 11,200 ~ 8588 2612
1908.. ~ 11,400 „ 6963 4437
* -K * *
It is a miserably diseased condition of affairs
when nearly three-fourths of the new population
which Victoria has acquired in the past seven
years has gone to bloat one huge city. It only
requires another 40 years like the last seven,
and Melbourne will stand for more than half
the population of the State. And the pro-
cess is growing worse, despite the hypo-
critical pretence of Bent and the Argus that
great things are being done in the way of
land settlement, and the hilarious lie of the Tory
paper about how the big squatters are meeting
the demand for cultivable earth. Last year, when
Melbourne added to its population 4437 more
people than all the rest of Victoria put together,
showed the bloating disease in a more aggravated
form than in 1907 or in 1906. Of course, land
monopoly isn’t wholly responsible for the enor-
mous dropsy of either Melbourne or Sydney ;
part of the trouble is due to a nefarious system
which makes these cities the only great railway
centres of their respective States, which gives
special rates in order to drag all the country’s
trade there, and which concentrates there all the
machinery of government. But land monopoly is
very largely responsible in Melbourne’s lament-
able case. The farmer has been steadily shoved
for years further and further back, until now
he has reached the dry and treacherous
Mallee and such-like places. And things are
so bad in his present haunts that it only
requires one bad season like that of 1902, and for
the three succeeding years the whole rural
population, and for the two succeeding
years the aggregate population of the small
towns, is on the down grade. Then, with
the advent of better seasons, the farmers take
heart and begin to crawl back to their arid
stronghold in the Mallee ; but when it is noticed
that the increase of rural population was 1148 less
in 1908 than in 1907, it seems as if another exodus
was coming in sight.
So it is no wonder that when Tait’s train, run-
ning not far from Melbourne, was ditched that
wet night, it found itself sitting among its own
ruins in a locality that is “wild and deserted,
there being no houses within two or three miles.”
Does Alfred Deakin propose to do anything
about it? And are John Weary’s utterly in-
adequate progressive land-tax proposals even
intended to do anything except pour a little oil
on the clamorous sea of protest ?
THE FINDING OF THE NORTH POLE.
The North Pole has at last been found, or at least
an assertion is made to that effect. The alleged
finder is a Yankee explorer named Cook—
the name used to be Koch —from Brooklyn,
where Preacher Talmage and Rev. Henry Ward
Beecher (the man who “sat on the rugged
edge of despair”) hung out. Two years or
more ago Cook, with a mate, sundry Eskimo,
and certain dogs and provender, vanished from
human ken into the top of Greenland. The mate
came back, suffering from cold feet; but Cook,
who used to be Koch, has just emerged with his
story. The dogs can’t corroborate it. The Eskimo
can’t corroborate it either, for Eskimo don’t take
observations with the sextant, and probably don’t
know that there is a Pole. A photograph of the
stars, taken exactly at the Pole, would be good
evidence; but it was during the long day that
Cook says he got there, and even if it had been night
the apparatus required to take an adequate
star-photograph would weigh about three tons, and
when a man is struggling over leagues of ice
and dodging between bears he can’t carry much
apparatus. Doubtless if the uncorroborated Cook
really got to the Pole he built the usual cairn and
left the usual record. If the next successful
traveller finds these things, and is an honest
traveller, he will come back—unless he freezes or
becomes a bear’s dinner on the road—and say
that he found them, and thus clear away any sus-
picion that may hang round the tale of the
uncorroborated Cook. On the other hand, if he
is a liar he will make a large hole and bury Cook’s
records, and declare that there was no sign or
footprint of Cook, and claim that he was himself
the first finder of the Pole. And, again, he may
come back and say quite truly that there was no
sign of Cook, yet Cook may have been there ;
bears may have dispersed his cairn, and eaten or
obliterated his evidence, and stamped with their
big feet or sat down with their obscene hind-
quarters on the honors which were rightly his.
Or the records may have departed on the moving
ice. Cook says that the ice at the Pole is moving
eastward, though it is hard to see how that can be
since there is no east at the North Pole, and no
west and no north—only south. Thus Cook may
become another Bacon-Shakspeare controversy.
Of course, there is no reason why Cook, even
though he comes from Brooklyn, should not have
found the long-sought-for Pole. It is one of the
peculiarities of life that hordes of notable men
struggle for centuries to achieve the apparently
impossible, and then someone named Smith or
Jones goes out and suddenly does it. In this
respect, the fact that the explorer’s name was
Cook is distinctly in his favor—barring the fact
that his name is really Koch. It is also in his
favor that both Poles are now about due, for
recent expeditions have got nearer and nearer —in
fact, they got so near that unless the Poles
packed up their portmanteaux and fled to the
interior of Africa it was hardly possible for them
to hide themselves much longer. And it should
also be noted to Cook’s credit that he is of Bel-
gian extraction. This seems to be the day-out
for the so-called Latin races. It was an Italian
who invented wireless telegraphy, and it was
another Italian who got nearest to the Pole previous
to Cook’s exploit. Also an Italian would have
won the first English Marathon race if he
hadn’t fallen down. A Frenchman has just shown
that the invasion of England is possible via the
upper air, by flying over the English Channel.
Seeing that a Spaniard or a Portuguese
never does anything remarkable, it was up to
a Belgian to do something; and Cook has
either done it, or has said »he did it. The
public had just assimilated the idea that
Cook was another evidence that the Latin races
were having their day out when a statement
arrived that Cook (formerly Koch) isn’t of Belgian
descent at all, but is a German Hebrew of a
Frankfort family ; but that doesn’t really make
much difference. As no Jew has yet found a
Pole, it is plainly up to a Jew to find one now.
Yet, whatever Cook’s origin, it is a grievous
handicap to come back from such an ex-
pedition without any reliable corroboration. The
explorer who returns alone is in a position to say
he has been anywhere even if he hasn’t; and if he
is sufficiently learned and intelligent he leaves no
holes in his narrative through which lie can be
bowled out. Of course, if he is a mere lout like
the sea-captain in Besant’s tale “ The Captains’
Room,” he falls in. That person professed to go
to New Guinea to hunt up the heroine’s lost sweet-
heart. He said that he crossed a desert covered
with ostriches and giraffes. Next he climbed over
a mountain 25,000 ft. high, the same being infested
with bears, wolves and pemmican. From the top
he distinctly saw Hong Kong in the distance.
Finally he reached the court of the King of New
Guinea, a young man who wore his golden crown
regularly, and there he learned that the missing
man had just been eaten by a lion, in consequence
of which the Princess Royal, who was much
attached to the victim, had “gone off her royal
chump.” In proof of these statements he tendered
a cap, several sizes too small and so new that the
shopman’s ticket was still in it, which cap was
supposed to have been torn from the jaws of the
New Guinea lion after the wearer was eaten ; and
on the strength of these statements he offered
himself as a husband in place of the missing man
—the girl being a desirable person with money.
But it is only an explorer of fiction or a Loois DE
Rocgemont who comes back with so thin a
narrative as that.
In this matter of the Pole the English race
has a right to be aggrieved. It has been strug-
gling round the Far North ever since the days of
Martin Frobisher, or even earlier. It never had
much luck in the North, but when Shackleton
the other day made his famous dash for the South
Pole he got nearer to it than any traveller on
record had ever got to any Pole before. He failed
because a Siberian pony which it was proposed to
use as food on the land journey fell down a
crevasse and was lost, and a foolish sentiment
kept the party from eating the baronet who
accompanied the expedition. Yet why the baronet
should not have been eaten it is hard to say. His
kind are plentiful enough, and one can easily be
replaced. A man is the work of God, but a
baronet, like a peer, is “created” by the King.
A really far-seeing Polar expedition would take the
King along with it, and when provisions ran short
the royal personage would “create” a pair of
baronets, and they would serve as provisions. If
the party got tired of eating baronets the royal
explorer could “create” a duke by way of a
change of diet. The creative powers of a monarch
seem to be practically unlimited.
It may yet be necessary to sink a large
number of holes to decide who owns the North
Pole. If these holes reveal land under the ice all
the way from Greenland to the Pole, then Den-
mark, as the possessor of Greenland, has a title to
the property. If the Pole is an isolated institu-
tion, then it belongs to whoever can get it. The
U.S. Attorney-General already says that the
U.S. Constitution follows the flag to the Farthest
North; but as it is impossible to run a corner in
wheat or to lynch a nigger up there, it is difficult
to follow the Attorney-General’s process of reason-
ing. Most probably the question of owner-
ship won’t be fully settled until the earth’s climate
undergoes a great change, which is a thing that
may happen any day. There is reason to believe
that even 900 years ago the climate of the old
republic of Greenland was very much warmer than
it is now. At all events there were churches and
small towns and an alleged cathedral and even
bishops in Greenland, until the Black Death
broke out among the colonists, and the Skraelmgs
came down from the north—apparently from the
Pole—and raised Cain. (Other authorities say
the Skraelings made their attack from the south.)
In those days, according to the northern propo-
sition, the Pole was accessible by any vigorous
pedestrian. Consequently, the theory has arisen
that both Poles were comfortable places until
lately, but that ice is now steadily accumulating,
and that this heaping up of dead weight may end
by destroying the balance of the globe. If that
happens the globe will suddenly do a half-turn
and revolve on a new axis, and inside a crowded
half-hour or so the Poles will become the Equator,
and the Equator will be the Poles. It is calculated
that the shock will tear the seas out of their
beds in so alarming a fashion that everybody
will be drowned save the people up in the Andes
and the Himalayas. Then the ice at the Poles
will naturally melt, and when the dead weight is
thus removed the earth will whirl round again to
its old basis with a renewal of the marine disturb-
ance. About this time the Poles will be perfectly
accessible, but probably the few survivors of the
human race will be too busy prodding in the mud
for lost property to take advantage of the oppor-
tunity. Whether the catastrophe could be averted
by sending great expeditions to attack the Polar
ice with burning glasses, and thus shift the super-
incumbent mass, is an open question. If the
burning glass was big enough and numerous
enough it could shift all the icebergs on fiarth,
always provided the half-melted icebergs didn't
fall on the machinery and make a ruin of it.
Possibly when the manufacture of optical instru-
ments is further advanced there will be an excel-
lent wheat crop at the Poles, and the hay in
Greenland will be something above the average.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Starving the Watchman.
One of the reasons why the Commonwealth is
being.bled white by the States is that, when the
States have a business out of which they might
reasonably make a bit of money, the revenue from
that source is cut and chopped until it barely
meets the expenditure. The N.S.W railways are
a case in point. Though they still have a big
accumulated deficit to wipe out, yet on the
strength of two or three good seasons, the imported
railway potentate and the Wade Government
between them are cutting down rates with the
deliberate intention of preventing any future
surplus worth mentioning. This would be
all very well if the State hadn’t borrowed for
anything except rail ways and other more or less
genuinely permanent and reproductive works;
but as it has borrowed for a host of other things,
then clearly one of two courses has to be followed :
either the interest on the things that won’t pay
for themselves has to be paid by the things that
are profitable, or it has to be provided out of
taxes. Hitherto the yarn has been that, taken in
the lump, the N.S.W. loans are self-supporting ;
but they can only be rendered self-supporting
by making the profitable things pay for the
unprofitable. Here, for instance, area few items
of total loan expenditure taken from the N.S.W.
Auditor-General’s last report:—
Court-houses, gaols, etc £1,022,106
Museums, schools, etc. .. .. 1,114,103
Hospitals and asylums .. .. 749,056
Roads, bridges and punts .. .. 1,801,497
Immigration 569,930
Fortifications 1,457,536
These are only six items out of dozens which don't
produce enough revenue to pay for paint; and
yet this small bundle amounts in the aggregate to
£7,014,228, on which the annual interest bill is
over £290,000. If the revenue from the few things
which do pay is to be cut down until they only pay
for themselves even in good years, then for a start
this £259,000 must inevitably be made up
out of taxation; and that, of course, means
that N.S.W. must throw over once and
for all the ancient gag that it has only
borrowed for permanent and reproductive under-
takings—they obviously will not be “reproduct-
ive ” if a million or so of the interest has to be got
directly out of the taxpayers’ pockets. The State
never should have borrowed for any other class of
undertakings ; but as it has done so, it must put
up with the consequences. And one of the conse-
quences is that either it must make the good help
to pay for the bad, or the people must be prepared
to tax themselves. If, however, the State won’t
do what any business man would do, and make the
good help to pay for the bad, it is a monstrous
thing that the Commonwealth should be called
upon to suffer. If a merchant buys some goods
so badly that they presently land him in a
loss, and if he buys some other things
at a price at which he can make a handsome
profit, he makes the profit and wipes out the loss.
The idea of Johnson, the imported railway
potentate, and also of the vote-catching Wade
Government, is to cut down the selling price of
the goods which have been well bought, so that
they shall not show any profit either. Then,
being left with no profit on one lot of goods and a
loss on the other lot, the idea is to go to the land-
lord and say “ I can’t pay you your rent,” and to
the watchman and say—“l’m hard up, so I’ll
have to starve you.” If a business man proceeded
on those lines he would be regarded as either a
rogue or a fool; and yet these are exactly the lines
followed by the N. S. Wales Government in par-
ticular, and all the other State Governments to
some degree.
—— ♦
The Same Delusion.
State Premiers and such-like are not the only
people who fancy they have a right to abolish the
popular vote and prevent the people governing
themselves as they please. Suburban mayors
suffer from the same complaint. The Greater
Sydney movement, which is now in very consider-
able blast, is bitterly opposed by almost every
suburban mayor, and by almost all the suburban
aldermen who either have been or hope to be
mayors. This is not remarkable, for if Sydney
has one municipal council instead of 41, it is plain
that 40 mayors will lose their jobs. The average
mayor, in the fury of his opposition, seems to
have a mistaken idea of his importance in
the scheme of things. What the reformers
propose is that a municipal constitution for
Greater Sydney should be drafted—by a popu-
larly-elected convention, or by Parliament, or by
some authority or another—and then submitted
to the people for acceptance or rejection, that sort
of direct vote being the only way in which the will
of the people can be really ascertained. The
view of the infuriated horde of suburban mayors
and aldermen is that nothing of the kind should
be permitted. They see no reason why the people
should have a Greater Sydney, whether they
want it or not, seeing that suburban mayors don’t
want it. They can’t understand what right the
people have to even express their views on
the matter seeing that the suburban aider-
men don’t want them to express their
views. In this respect they stand alongside
Gregory Wade, who reckons that even if
the people of Australia want Federal control of
industrial legislation or a referendum to decide
the site of the Australian capital it would
be an outrage if they got it, seeing that
he (Wade) doesn’t want them to have it.
Both parties say the change is not according
to the Constitution, which is true enough;
and both Wade and the suburban mayors
hold that the people shouldn’t be allowed
to amend their own Constitution unless Wade
and the mayors are agreeable, which is sheer
folly. Wade stands for State rights. The subur-
ban mayors stand for back-lane rights. They
have exactly the same delusion, but Wade looks
rather kindly on the Greater Sydney idea, and
probably can’t see that anybody has a right to
have his delusion but. himself.


A Scheme to Mix Oil and Water,
“ D.” writes
Defence Minister Coos said this, among a number of
other ill-judged things, last week
“ We shall need a naval training-school of first-class
quality, in which our naval cadets may be trained to the
same standard as those at home. We shall thus be able
to open, to our young men a career in the navy. And by
the navy I mean the entire Umpire navy. One of the
fundamental principles of this education will be that it
shall fit those undergoing l it for any position anywhere
where the Union Jack flies ; the boats, the weapons, the
men should be interchangeable throughout.”
The idea of a local naval training-school for the instructing
of Australian naval cadets in what is going to be the busi-
ness of their lives is practicable. The idea that cadets so
trained are going to be interchanged satisfactorily with
cadets trained according to Cold Land traditions isn’t.
Pei pend while I state facts which will appear as
hoary platitudes to those with knowledge of life
on a British man-o'-war. Than the British naval
officer there is no more conservative human, in
matters of social conduct, on earth. He is
caught while a mere infant, and run into the R. N.
College, the modern substitute for the old Britannia.
This is an English public school—only considerably more
so. F rom the time he gets up till the time he goes to bed
the embryo sailor is hedged round with a set of com-
and, to the Australian boy, wholly purposeless
conventions. There are some to whom he may not
speak under pain of assault, unless he has first
been addressed by them ; others whom he may
accost only in set terms and manner. There are
articles of clothing which he may not wear,
forms of speech he may not employ, subjects (harmless in
themselves) which he may not discuss—in a thousand
ways he must go warily till he acquires the precise atti-
tude towards life and his fellow-tar that is demanded of
him by the service at large. When that time comes he is
—unless one of amazing individuality—indistinguishable
in almost every important respect from his colleagues the
seas over. He may drink or smoke a little more or a
little less than the next man, or have less or more cash,
or be keen on cricket instead of cards, or prefer racing to
social gaiety ; but, broadly, he is according to pattern.
His manner, his way of speech, his habits, his ideas, his
lines of thought, his prejudices are identical with those of
his companions who have been tutored in the same school
he has.
Consider the position of an Australian-born and edu-
cated cadet in that environment. He may be a good,
earnest, well-behaved and able lad. He may be com-
panionable and tactful, and hence popular among his
own friends. Yet he will find nothing in common with
British young men in his walk of life, and they will find
nothing in common with him. Each is bound to mis-
judge and dislike the other. The trying association of
shipboard life demands that resemblance of type which
the British naval training system gives, since without it
harmony is impossible. The Australian of the present
generation has already got far enough away from the
Briton to have evolved a manner, a voice, views, customs,
a slang and a hundred other characteristics of his own.
He is as alien from the Briton as both he and the Briton
are from the American—and how wide that last gap was
became plain to anyone who watched the commissioned
boy of the Bulldog breed striving hard to get on terms
with the U.S.A. officers here last year, and failing miser-
ably every time.
It may be argued that the R.N.R. man whose appren-
ticeship is served, not on the banks of the Dart, but aboard
a deep-sea vessel, doesn’t find himself at a disadvantage
among regularly-trained British naval officers, and that,
therefore, there is no need to fear Australians are going
to be. I hold that he is ; and go so far as to say that
whether he comes from a P. and O. ship or from one of
the less aristocratic of the merchantmen, he remains
always, among 90 percent, of “ pukka” naval men whom
he meets, an outsider—not to say a pariah—to the end.
It is impossible to dispute the' seriousness of this ten-
dency in its bearings on the Deakin-Cook idea of inter-
changing British with Australian officers throughout the
Imperial navy. In Maoriland last month a youngster
deserted his ship and deliberately faced expulsion from
the service to escape what he described as “ the hell of
the life on board.” He had nothing against his fellow-
officers. They had nothing against him. Simply he
wasn’t their sort. A lad trained at the R. N. College
would have found a Yankee battleship the same intoler-
able place. An Australian-trained youth would so regard
a British warship. If there is one aspiration more hope-
less than another in the Deakin-Cook naval programme,
it is this of mixing for long periods of British and Australian
human elements in the confined space aboard ship. The
dictum that officers, whether naval or military, of dif-
ferent nationalities, tastes and points of view can’t frater-
nise in the real sense for any length of time is as true and
as old as Gospel.
« .
Boots, Hobbles and Other Things.
Customs Minister Best, who is as good a Protec-
tionist as a Fused politician may be, lately met
certain foolish boot manufacturers, who asked him
to alter a clause in the Amending Patents Bill so
that American manufacturers of hired-out patented
boot machinery might not be affected by it.
These foolish manufacturers are not even allowed
the freedom of contract they profess to love;
they can only hire the machines necessary for
their business from the United States Boot do. or
its offshoot, the British United Co,, both of them
belonging to a combine of the most restrictive
sort; they must also contract to use no machinery
made by any ©.■ npany or person outside the com-
bine ; and thu.-, they are practically under the
thumb of the combine. But because they had not
so far suffered under the arrangement—though
even that they can’t really know for certain—
they urgently desired things left as they are.
Best’s Bill proposes to borrow the provision
already in force in England, under which a patent
may be revoked unless within four years of
its being issued the patentee is manufacturing
the article in Australia ; and it was this pro-
vision in particular that they wanted the
Government to throw overboard. Best, however,
viewed therequestcoldly, remarking that no patent
would be revoked if satisfactory reasons were
given why the article could or should not be made
here; also he pointed out that if, as asserted,
these machines could not be made here, then the
revocation of the patent could do no harm to any-
body. In fact, if the machinery couldn’t be made
here, he didn’t know what the makers wanted a
patent for at all. There is a dim suspicion that these
established boot manufacturers have an arrange-
ment with the machinery co. by which competition
is stifled ; if not, why their excessive eagerness to
smooth the path for the foreign monopolists?
But whether that be so or not it is to be hoped
Best and the Fused Ministry will continue
their hostile attitude to the suave and gentle
monopolists. This new Patent law doesn’t
concern itself merely with boots and the hiring
of foreign machinery; it is chiefly intended
to develop the manufacture of intricate, up-
to-date machinery in the Commonwealth;
to train, or to encourage the immigration of
clever, scientific artisans; and to give the Aus-
tralian inventor a chance to apply his brains to im-
prove even the choicest work of the brainiest
American mechanics and engineers. The Aus-
tralian boot-manufacturer may suffer temporarily,
though even that is unlikely ; but he will certainly
profit in the long run, while the Australian con-
sumer and artisan will gain in every way. Mean-
while, this unusual attitude of Private Enterprise,
in jumping on freedom of contract and asking to
be allowed to keep its neck under the heel of the
monopolist, requires a good deal of explanation,
especially as the monopolist himself has so far
said nothing.
About a Potential Commissioner.
Chaffering, lobbying and underground engineer-
ing proceed apace in Melbourne in regard to the
forthcoming appointment by the Fused Govern-
ment of an Australian High Commissioner. There
is a dark dread abroad that the job may be
brought to the level of vaudeville by the granting
of it to G. Reid. Indeed, if the Fusees were sure
they could hold the rickety East Sydney seat with
any other candidate than Reid, there is little
doubt that they would hand him the office right
away. The fact that they aren’t sure puts
John Forrest well in the running for a
billet after which his soul has hungered
in frank and public fashion for years past.
And what an appalling possibility that is!
Reid, with all his disabilities—his grotesqueries,
his incurable habit of clowning, his recently-
acquired and deplorable passion for reeling off
scale moral and philosophic platitudes—has cer-
tain more or less admirable qualities. For ex-
ample, his mentality along certain lines com-
mands respect. There is reason to think that his
Toryism is to an extent bogus ; and that he takes
a broader view-point politically and socially than
he is forced, for party purposes, to seem to do.
Not so Forrest, who is a foolish and blundering
old man these times; and an unashamed reaction-
ary-. He never had any mental grip worth men-
tioning. Barring his unshakable resolve to hold
office, there outstands little definite in him nowa-
days save his wild dread of the exploded menace,
Socialism—and his money. These are the assets
which his friends count upon to tip the Commis-
sionership scale in his favor. An incident which
occurred in the Australian Parliament during the
debate on the Coinage Bill suggests one of the
many good reasons why John Forrest, apart
from his quite patent disadvantages otherwise, is
a hopeless candidate for the post he seeks. The
question arose as to whether the phrase “King
and Emperor” should appear on the new Aus-
tralian coins. Members on both sides of the
House agreed enthusiastically that the idea of
stating, by implication, on our coins that Ed.
VII. is Emperor of Australia was absurd, not
to say insane. Forrest didn’t attempt to
dispute that obvious contention. But he stuck
with a doggedness that was none the less effective
for that it was largely inarticulate to the attitude
that it had to be so, till the House started to grow
suspicious and to probe for reasons. Then it got
them. The Colonial Office, it appeared, had given
Forrest his orders in the matter. Said Crouch,
M.H.R., wildly :
The answer of Mr. Forrkst . . . places on record the
opinion of the Commonwealth Treasurer that the views of
the Colonial Office govern this Parliament.
Of course, as a matter of fact, the views of the
Colonial Office don’t; they merely govern For-
rest. In Forrest’s opinion the sun rises and sets in
the Colonial Office. It is not unnatural that
this should be so. Years ago, before Responsible
Government came to Westralia, John Forrest
was a high official there, in the employ of
the Colonial Office, which administered that
section of the earth as a Crown Colony. Then
Westralia got a Parliament and a Cabinet. And
John Forrest, because of his services in the
Crown Colony days, became a Colonial Office
pensioner at £BOO per annum. He is still in
receipt of that handsome income when he is not
in office. Is it to be wondered that he truckles
to the egregious London institution which
blunders so consistently each time it essays
to handle matters of Australian concern?
Furthermore, is it to be expected that the institu-
tion which controls Forrkst in the capacity of
Cabinet Minister from a distance of 12,000 miles
won’t control him with a far firmer grip if he is
High Commissioner within a shilling cab-drive of
Downing-street ? The appointment of Forrest,
the old Crown Colony official, to this supremely
important post is almost tantamount to appointing
one of the permanent Colonial Office officials, and
that is about as wild a travesty of an appoint-
ment as is conceivable.
♦
Progressive Land-Tax in Victoria.
Land monopoly has made such an utter wreck of
the small towns and agricultural districts of Vic-
toria that the Murray Government has felt called
upon to do something, and a Progressive Land-
Tax Bill has been introduced. It is a somewhat
gradual measure which is to come into force, if it
passes, about 16 months hence, and its principal
features are these :• —
The tax is to be as follows :
When the total unimproved value of the land of any
owner is—
More than And not more than
£SOO .. .. .. £2,500 .. id. in the £
2,500 5,000 .. |d.
5,000 10,000 .. Id.
10,000 15,000 .. ljd. „
15,000 20,000 .. l|d.
20,000 25,000 .. lfd. ~
25,000 30.000 .. lid. ~
30,000 35.000 .. lfd.
35,000 40,000 .. lfd. „
40,000 45,000 .. l|d. ~
45,000 50,000 .. 2d.
50,000 60,000 .. 2fd. ' ~
60,000 70,000 .. 2|d.
70,000 80,000 .. 2§d.
80,000 ..3d.
Absentee landlords to pay 50 per cent, extra.
And then exemptions and weak points begin to
come in :• —•
Lands used for mining, religious and educational pur-
poses are exempt.
The Income-tax Commissioner may make assessments
where he thinks necessary, but apparently he may also
accept the existing assessments made for Local Govern-
ment purposes, which often run to about a quarter of the
real value. And he can’t make a fresh assessment more
than once in two years.
The landowner has two separate appeals against the
assessment.
In case of fire, flood, drought, etc., where it seems that
the tax would be a serious hardship, its payment may be
remitted or postponed. This is a vast and dangerous
power to place in the hands of any official.
There are certain remissions of income-tax which will
in many cases largely counter-balance the new land-tax.
The tax is supposed to yield £318,000 a year, but out of
this the Murray Government is pledged to return £50,000
to the country landoumers in reduced railway charges.
The keynote of the whole business is the desire to
be “moderate,” and in such a matter moderation
is an absurdity. Victoria is driven to the con-
clusion that it trust cut up its huge empty estates
and make room for population, or else decay into
complete unimportance. Therefore it is proposed
that the estate worth £200,000 shall pay 3d. in the
£. Assuming that the valuation is correct, and
that the income derived from the land is 5 per
cent. (Is. in the £), this tax is one-fourth of the
income. Why should it not be half the income,
or even more ? If the monopolist cuts up his huge
estate and sells it for purposes of settlement he
won’t pay anything, and if a man pays nothing it
doesn’t matter to him whether the amount he
doesn’t pay on the land he has sold equals
25 per cent, or 100 per cent, on the rental
he would have received if he hadn’t sold
the land. When a man pays nothing the
fact that under totally different circumstances he
might have had to pay a larger or smaller amount is
of no importance to him, and the whole purpose
of a progressive tax should be to bring about a
state of things under which the present big land-
lord won’t pay anything. Therefore moderation,
which aims at reaching a point at which the
monopolist won’t really be driven to sell, but will
only be made angry and cantankerous, is quite out
of place. The Bulletin fully recognises that the
Murray Government’s Progressive Land-Tax Bill
is the best thing of its kind that Victoria has yet
seen. All the same, it propounds these theories :
(1) If revenue is wanted it should be obtained by a land-
tax which will apply to- large and small estates equally—
which can’t be evaded by cutting up the property.
(2) Apart from this there should be a progressive land-
tax which isn’t calculated to yield any revenue at all
(3) The exemption should be larger than £soo—neriiaus
£IOOO. Remaps
(4) After that the graduated tax should begin at 2d. in
the & and mount up rapidly to the whole shilling—in
other words, to the whole rental value of the land.
To put it another way : If £750 or £1000 worth of
land is a living area for a man with a wife and the
sort of family he should have—for a man who
doesn’t live on the sweated labor of his children,
on the underpaid labor of his hirelings, and by
harassing the Treasury for seed wheat, road and
bridge grants and absurdly low railway charges
—then the reward for restricting himself to a
living are.r should be complete exemption from
a tax which aims solely at the cutting up of land.
And as £20,000 worth of land is a monopoly
and a public wrong, its reward should be such a
tax as wdl make the cutting up of the property
not merely probable, but as certain as death or
sunrise. The assumption that the proposed tax-
will yield £318,OOO a year as a steady thing merely
signifies that it is supposed to be that much short
of the sort of tax it should be. Yet, with all this,
it a great advance on anything yet attempted
in Victoria, and deserves commendation accord-
ingly. The only pity is that it doesn’t deserve
even more commendation.
Apprenticeship versus Technical College.
A number of master tailors, holding forth last
week at the N.8.W. Industrial Court, com-
plained that the operatives of to-day are
not in the same street as those of 10 years
ago. Judge Heydon got interested, and
wanted to know why. One employer said
the introduction of machinery had much to
do with it; but, in the end, he and the rest were
fain to admit that the piecework system, under
which the men have to pay and supervise the
apprentices, is the real cause. When the em-
ployers paid wages and supplied “improvers,”
the tailors taught their apprentices carefully, for
they wanted the, best work out of them. But
where the men are paid on the quantity of work
done they hustle all the time, and if they stop to
instruct the apprentices it is their loss. They
prefer to get what work they can out of the boys
with a few perfunctory directions. The result is
that the work is bad, but still it isn’t worse than
the average, and above all it is swift. Exactly
why the men should be expected to prepare
the rising crop of operatives for the bene-
fit of the employer is not clear. From
whatever standpoint it is looked at the appren-
tice system is a very unsatisfactory one. It
was originally designed to keep down wages. A
youth became an apprentice and was bound,
mostly for seven years. During that time, no
matter how efficient he became, he had to work
for the wage of a learner, which varied from
nothing to kicks per month. Usually it worked
out at about 41 years of skilled labor for a boy’s
wages ; and naturally the boss loved it. It helped
to make England great, and in the days when
workshops and factories were small, and most
things were done by hand, and one man made a
boot or a suit of clothes from beginning to end,
and the apprentice consequently had a chance to
learn the whole trade, it answered well enough.
But that such a system should still linger in these
days of the subdivision of labor is an amazing
anomaly. The proper place to learn trades and
crafts is the Technical College. There the pupil
receives instruction in every branch of his
trade. That is how they do things in
Germany, and when the German youth has
passed through three or four years of this training
he is subjected to a test. The work he turns out
is branded with his name and number, and kept
at the College for reference for a number of years;
after which it is handed to him. He receives a
certificate of merit setting forth what he has
learned and what he has done under test
conditions. Armed with this he goes into
a factory and starts at a journeyman’s wage
from the first day of liis industrial life. By
this system both masters and journeymen escape
the task of preparing the rising generation of
operatives, for the apprentices are instructed in
their crafts by men trained to impart knowledge!
In the workshop the apprentice learns only the
things that are done in that shop. In the
Technical College, as organised in Germany, he is
taught everything that in any way bears' on his
“Here Died.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Theru’s many a school-boy’s bat and ball that are
gathering dust at home,
For he hears a voice in the future call, and he
trains for the war to come ;
A serious light in his eyes is seen as he comes from
the schoolhouse gate ;
He keeps his kit and his rifle clean, and he sees
that his back is straight.
But straight or crooked, or round, or lame—you
may let these words take root;
As the time draws near for the sterner game, all
boys should learn to shoot.
From tiie beardless youth to the grim grey-beard,
let Australians ne’er forget,
A lame limb never has interfered with a brave
man’s shooting yet.
Over and over and over again, to you and our
friends and me,
The warning of danger has sounded plain—like
the thud of a gun at sea.
The rich man turns to his wine once more, and
the gay to their worldly joys,
The “ statesman ” laughs at a hint of war— but
something has told the boys.
The school-boy scouts of the White Man’s Land
are out on the hills to-day ;
They trace the tracks from the sea-beach sand
and sea-cliffs grim and grey ;
They take the range for a likely shot by every
cape and head,
And they spy the lay of each' lonely spot where an
enemy’s foot might tread.
In the cooling breeze of the coastal streams, or out
where the townships bake,
They march in fancy, and fight in dreams, and die
for Australia’s sake.
They hold the fort till relief arrives, when the
landing parties storm,
And they take the pride of their fresh young
lives in the set of a uniform.
Where never a loaded shell was hurled, nor a rifle
tired to kill,
The school-boy scouts of the Southern World are
choosing their Battery Hill.
They run the tapes on the flats and fells by roads
that the guns might sweep,
They are fixing in memory obstacles where the
firing lines shall creep.
They read and they study the gunnery—they ask
till the meaning’s plain,
But the craft of the scout is a simple thing to the
young Australian brain.
They blaze the track for a forward run, where the
scrub is everywhere,
And they mark positions for every gun and every
unit there.
They trace the track for a quick retreat—and the
track for the other way round,
And they mark the spot in the summer heat where
the water is always found.
They note the chances of cliff and tide, and where
they can move, and when,
And every point where a gun might hide in the
days when they’ll fight as men.
When silent men with their rifles lie by many a
ferny dell ;
And turn their heads when a scout goes by, with
the cheery growl “All’s well ” ;
And scouts shall climb by the fishermen’s ways,
and watch for a sign of ships,
With stern eves fixed on the threatening haze
where the blue horizon dips.
When men shall camp in the dark and damp by
the bough-masked battery,
Between the forts and the open ports where the
miners watch the sea ;
And talk perhaps of their boy-scout days, as they
sit in their shelters rude,
While motors race to the distant bays with ammu-
nition and food.
When the city alight shall wait by night for news
from a far-out post,
And men ride down from the farming town to
patrol the lonely coast —
Till they hear the thud of a distant gun, or the
distant rifles crack,
Aud Australians spring to their arms as one to
drive the invaders back.
There’ll be no music nor martial noise, save the
guns to help you through,
For a plain and a shirt-sleeve job, my boys, is
the job that we’ll have to do.
And many of those who had learned to shoot—and
in learning learned to teach—
i’o the last three men, aud the last galoot, shall
die on some lonely beach.
But they’ll waste their breath in no empty boast,
and they’ll prove to the world their worth,
When the shearers rush to the Eastern Coast, and
the miners rush to Perth.
And the man who fights in a Queenscliff fort, or
up by Keppel B iy,
Will know that his mates at Bunbury are doing
their share that day.
There was never a land so great and wide, where
the foreign fathers came,
That has bred her children so much alike, with
their hearts so much the same.
And sons shall fight by the mangrove creeks that
lie on the lone North Coast,
Who never shall know (or not for weeks) if the
rest of Australia’s lost.
And far in the future (I see it well), and born of
such days as these,
There lies an Australia invincible, and mistress of
all her seas ;
With monuments standing on hill and head,
where her sons shall point with pride
To the names of Australia’s bravest dead, carved
, under the words “Here Died.”
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Indifferentist.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am not interested in the Pole ;
I do not care a bit if it’s been found
Or stands, as it has hitherto, from bole
To top with ice and isolation crowned.
I never felt the wish to emulate
Nansen, D’Abruzzi, Peary and the rest;
I simply loathe the thought of tempting Fate
In regions where one cannot change one’s vest.
I consequently bear no jealousy
To Dr. Cook. In bringing off his coup
He’s not forestalled or got ahead of me —
The feat is one I never meant to do.
I’ve always liked to view fresh hills and plains ;
Yet are there certain limits, so I hold ;
For instance, I have ever taken pains
To shun extremes of either heat or cold.
The reason why folks journey to the Pole
Has ever baffled me ; one wildly tears
Over damp, jagged ice-floes to the goal,
’Mid unwashed Eskimo and seals and bears,
Twitched by rheumatics, racked by frost, ones
toes
Inflamed by chilblains, rancid blubber fat
The staple menu-item, cheeks and nose
Whipped by unceasing blizzards. And for
what ?
Does there gleam forth, at the excursion’s end,
A pub, a gladsome place of warmth and cheer,
Wherein the voyager may rest and spend
A pleasant week or two with food and beer ?
Does he find bars and girls, and is he buoyed
With daily sheets of moral eminence?
Not so. The Pole is utterly devoid
Of any up-to-date convenience—
That is a point on which the warmest friends
Of Polar exploration are agreed.
At Parallel Eight-eight all comfort ends—
A painful thought which makes my heart to
bleed.
No, as I said before, this feat of Cook’s
Leaves me unmoved and cold as any clam.
I neither care for him nor for his books,
Nor for the place he’s found—no, not oned —mu.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
A reliable medicine for croup, and one
that should always be kept on hand tor immedi-
ate use is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
“ 6 r £££ s2s.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 9S Queen St., Brisbane.
As the time for the f6otball finals ap-
proaches waves of partisan excitement run moun-
tains high. But that inspirer of geniality, the
scholarly brand, tempers the most fervent enthu-
siasm with the cheerful spirit of sweet reasonable-
ness. And hustlers in the universal scrimmage
for Success, when encouraged by the pushful
influence of D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise
never fail to kick a winning goal.*
trade, so that he goes into the industrial world
qualified to work at any branch of it. That kind
of training makes for good work, which is in turn
conducive to high prices and large profits—a fact
which is recommended to the notice of the Aus-
tralian employer generally.
♦
Wanted, a Federal Capital Referendum.
A small procession of members of the N.S.W.
• State Parliament went down to Canberra a few
days ago, just after the heavy rains had made
things look fairly green, and the S. M. Herald
said in its leading article of last Monday that they
were pleased with the “ wide and gently undulat-
ing plain,” and other circumstances. At the
same time the Herald gently hinted to them that
it would be a mighty bad thing if they weren’t
pleased, for the job had to be rushed through
while circumstances were favorable. As the paper
put it : “ What we all have to see to is that delays
do not arise,” etc. The State members may, or
may not, have been pleased. But as members
who mostly represent districts close to Sydney;
who are fully apprised of the advisability of having
tiie capital as close to Sydney as possible, and also
of the advisability of securing the support of the
Sydney daily papers at next election ; and as mem-
bers who are liable to be aware that the Sydney
dailies can hardly do otherwise than approve of a
capital within the immediate range of their busi-
ness and circulation, they possibly tried to look
pleased even if they weren’t. At all events, they
didn’t contradict the daily paper statement that
they were pleased. According to the Herald’s
leader of Monday, “there can be no doubt that an
ample water supply can be obtained” at Canberra.
This assurance is eminently gratifying ; but the
paper might have spent a moment in explaining
away the recent unanimous report of four N.S.W.
officials, who declared that Cotter Creek, the
boasted source of supply of the proposed Canberra
capital, can’t be relied upon to furnish water fora
city of more than 50,000 people, and that so little
is known of the other principal streams there-
abouts that it is impossible to say, without elabo-
rate investigation, what their value maybe. And
the Herald might also have explained why the
Fused Government is demanding the right ito
bring water power, at great cost, from the Snowy
River at Dalgety, nearly 100 miles away, on
account of the unreliability of the Cotter and the
other creeks in the Canberra country. These are
awkward circumstances; but in an inadvertent
sort of fashion the S. M. Herald shows a way
out. It says :
Fortunately, the claims of Canberra are so strong that
there is no need for hesitancy on either side as to the
wisdon) of the choice. ... It seems to be agreed that the
site fulfils every qualification for the home of a great city.
The matter being so absolutely clear and so free
from all suspicion of doubt, the Herald can have
no objection to the proposal that the various sug-
gested sites should be submitted to a referendum,
and that the one which the people decide upon
should be the location of the Austratian capital.
It can hardly say that the people who buy the
Herald are such an incapable crowd that they
can’t be trusted in a simple matter like this. Nor
can it say that it is an utterly disgraceful
liar which is constantly declaring that the
people want the Canberra capital, while it is so
fully aware that they don’t want it that it dare
not let them have an opportunity to freely and
directly express their views on the matter. And
it can’t shirk the question by not saying anything
without bringing suspicion on its religious and
upright proprietary. The principal reasons which
this paper advances in support of the proposed
Monaro capital are that it is in a healthy and pic-
turesque locality—so healthy and picturesque that
the N.S.W. Government persistently advertises it,
even to the extent of a whole page in The Bulletin,
as the great sanatorium and holiday resort and
picture land of the State ; that it has such an
abundant water supply and allowance of water
power that a capital there might easily become
one of the greatest manufacturing cities of Aus-
tralia ; and that it is so far away from
Sydney and Melbourne and Adelaide—from
the offices of the Herald and Telegraph
and Bulletin and Age and Argus and
Advertiser and Register— that it must de-
velop an independent press of its own as a
Federal capital ought to do. Also that, being in
a region that is now comparatively empty, the
establishment of a capital there is calculated to
promote the settlement of the uninhabited
parts of Australia —a matter about which all
papers and politicians make a pretence of being
interested. The Herald doesn’t profess to object
to that kind of a capital; it merely says that its
favorite site, which for business purposes is at the
back door of its office, is on a “gently undulating
plain ” —Australia is full of gently undulating
plains—and that “the claims of Canberra are so
strong that there is no need for hesitation.” But
it certainly doesn’t say that the claims of Can-
berra are so strong that they can be submitted
without hesitation to a referendum of the Aus-
tralian people.
At last even the N.S.W. Auditor-General has
had to draw attention to the fact that every time
Ma goes on the London market nowadays Bull
Cohen wants a few ounces more of her flesh by
way of interest and charges. There was a time
when it wasn’t necessary to even get the loans
underwritten ; but now the underwriting shark
has to be called in, and, as more and more of the
loans are left on his hands, he steadily puts up the
price at which he will take the risk and supply
the temporary accommodation. So the Auditor-
General says:—
Even the issue of 1893, the crisis year, was obtained on
more favorable terms than the short-dated 4 per cent.
Debenture Loan of £2,000,000 raised in 1905. . . . The
review shows that the State was able in former years to
raise capital in very many instances on favorable terms
up to 1898 without the aid of underwriting ; but that
from the commencement of the system in the issue of 1901
each successive loan has been raised on a hardening
market, notwithstanding the national prosperity which
has been so evident of late years.
What would have happened if there hadn’t been
this national prosperity, Heaven only knows ; and
what will happen in the future, when the State
can’t always be prosperous, Heaven also only
knows. Still, whatever happens,- whether it is
prosperous or not, N. S. Wales has £9,854,508 of
trouble maturing in 1912, though for the greater
part of that it can extend the I O U if it wants
to; but in 1915 £3,881,081 falls due absolutely, and
another £12,826,200 in 1918. If the State had a
sinking fund—areal honest sinking fund, instead of
the existing small pretence —it might be able to
hold a decent argument with Bull Cohen on the
subject of a renewal; but if it hasn’t got that
fund—well, the Auditor-General’s remarks show
exactly what it may expect.
N.S.W. Assembly wasted a couple of hours over
Cook’s River one night last week, but as
a quarter-million of public money has already
been wasted there, it perhitps doesn’t matter
much. It seems that once the salt sea
water flowed into Cook’s River. Included
in the quarter-million above mentioned was
the cost of a dam Guilt by the Government to
keep this salt water out. Also, £lO,OOO has already
been spent in trying to dig a hole in the
dam to let the salt water in again, as organic
matter is depositing inside the dam, and the
whole densely-populated surrounding area is
threatened with an epidemic. Then £BO,OOO has
been spent in a stormwater channel which is add-
ing to the nuisance, and it will cost £65,000 more
to let the sea water in to clear the river. Further
there are large claims in view for compensation to
Chinese market gardeners whom the expensive
works enabled to settle on the land, but whom the
re-admission of the salt water will unsettle again.
“When I looked upon such a lot of hypocrites
for 19 days, I couldn’t help interjecting uncom-
plimentary remarks,” said Bent of Victoria to
his local greasers the other night, referring to the
Commissioners who lately “inquired” into his
land deals ; and thus he gave away the fact that
the Commissioners knew they were engaged in a
farcical inquiry, and that they knew he knew.
Under those circumstances, of course, he had
nothing to fear from the result. Yet the vain old
man went drivelling on about certain people
“who expected everything to come out,” and were
nonplussed when it didn’t ; and from the
fact that the hypocritical inquiry naturally
didn’t discover much. Bent proceeded to brazenly
assume that his spotless character was established.
This bluff of Bent’s is almost as insufferable as
the publicity given to it by the Tory press which
affects to take him seriously. Newspaper readers
in general are either very ill-informed or very for-
getful, and when Bent is presented to them as a
fine old political lion shaking the dewdrops of
calumny from his mane, they are almost per-
suaded that the picture is taken from life. And
for this lamentable public delusion John Murray
and Co. are responsible. In the records of Bent’s
scandalous reign as Premier of Victoria there was
abundant fuel for a fire at which he might have
been properly roasted. But instead of making
things hot for their old pal, whose ill-doings they
had so long sanctioned, the present Ministry has
wearily preferred to let things slide, and so put
Bent in the way to bring the Government of Vic-
toria into further disrepute.
■
Irish blight was discovered lately in some Tas-
manian potatoes. Instantly N.S.W. blocked
Tasmanian potatoes, to the great jov of its own
spud-growers and those of Victoria, who thus got
sole control of the Sydney market. Then the
Tasmanian spuds began to pour into Melbourne;
so, although the blight had been found in Vic-
toria, there was a howl for prohibition, of course,
“in the interests of the producer.” So the pro-
hibition was issued, and several thousand bags of
Tasmanian spuds were held up on the Melbourne
wharves. Then N.S.W. prohibited Victorian
spuds, whereupon Victoria complained bitterly
that there was as much blight in N.S.W. as in
Victoria. Westralia joined in, and prohibited
all spuds, and the produce merchants promptly
put up the price from £7 to £25 per ton.
South Australia next followed suit, with the same
results. Then a conference of agricultural de-
partments was held in Melbourne, at which it was
agreed that no State would prohibit the landing
of infected produce if the pest was already in both
States ; after which each department went home
—and promptly broke the agreement. - It is spuds
to-dav, and it was oranges and bananas a few
months ago, and it will be something else to-
morrow. Practically all the trouble is the out-
come of petty inter-State jealousy, a survival of
the old days of border duties. The result is ill-
feeling, derangement of trade, and dear food
for the people, while a few sharks gorge them-
selves. If the Commonwealth had control all of
this would be avoided, as blights, etc., would then
be treated from an Australian standpoint. What
with State Frights and blights, the Little Aus-
tralian party is helping the Unification and Re-
construction movement better than it knows.
■■-»-—
Britain is now holding an exhibition of sweated
industries at Earl’s Court, London, and it is hard
to say which excites the more commiseration—the
country that advertises the exhibition or the
exhibition that advertises the country. All the
exhibits represent the sweated toil of Britain’s
dregs, and tell their stories of hopeless woe.
There is an exhibit representing the work of a
girl chain-maker, who extracts a wage of 4s. 6d. a
week. There are exhibits illustrating the labor of
match-makers, who receive for making 144
boxes. There are other items referring to the work
of women who make blouses for 3Jd. apiece, and
turn out heavy motor-coats for the “ governing
classes ”at 2s. o|d. each. And there are heaps of
other things, all proving the hideous condition of
England’s wage slaves ; but England, apparently,
can do nothing for them. All that it has done,
lately, was to appoint a royal commission to gaze
upon the working of the Poor Law system. And
the commission gazed and gazed, and finally pro-
duced a monumental literary effort, the substance
of which was that thousands of pauper workers
are “ still beyond the reach of ameliorative legisla-
tion ! ” The whole vast squalid horror might be
swept away inside a year by the appointment of
Wages Boards but for one thing—under the Free-
trade system you can’t put up wages without
losing the work altogether.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The King of Cadonia.”
Theatre Royal. “ The Flood Tide.”
Criterion “Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Duchess of Dantzie.”
Theatre Royal “ As You Like It.”
King’s “The Bushwotnan.”
Princess’s “Sherlock Holmes.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
Athkn.eum Hall Tait’s Pictures.
Tiie Glaciarium Ice Skating.
♦
“ The Flood Tide ” was presented at Syd-
ney Royal bv the Bland Holt co. on Saturday
night. It is a delirious work. If the programme
did not go out of its way to mention that the play
is “from the pen of Cecil Raleigh, Esq.,”
one might assume that it was the outcome
of a collaboration between a melodrama-
tist of the old or fruity school, a howling
farce manufacturer, a problem play specialist
and 17 lunatics. There are 50 characters (not
counting supers.), and they represent every grade
of society, from racecourse touts to titled folk,
British and otherwise. The Dago, the Irishman,
the Gipsy and the Cockney abound ; and the
action rages between mid-ocean, Brighton, Kemp-
ton Park, Maidenhead, the Coburg Hotel (Lon-
don) and Victoria Railway Station. So the
public gets variety for its money.
* * * *
Proceedings open aboard the s.s. Bolivian
en route from Chili to London. A howl off-stage
and revolver-shots denote that an inebriated mil-
lionaire—known to the programme as Mac-
Naughton, but to the characters as Thompson—
has shot himself and jumped overboard. The
Baroness Pitchioli and her daughter Maria
learn of the event with unconcealed glee. They
materialise later in the vestibule of the Metropole
Hotel, Brighton, as Mac Thompson’s mother-in-law
and widow respectively. Meanwhile the incorri-
gible tendency of the heavy stage father to mix him-
self up in financial transactions with which his
invariably low order of intellect unfits him
to grapple, has landed honest old Dick Cham-
pion—landlord of the Running Horse pub,
and father of Capt. Champion, V.C.—with-
in measurable distance of penal servitude.
The oldster does not quail personally at the
prospect of a felon’s doom, but fears that it may
embarrass his soldier son —V.C. ’s being notoriously
averse from owning gaoled parents. So he gets
the son aforesaid to expend £9OOO on a horse which
is at an outside price for a forthcoming event at
Kempton Park ; and, furthermore, he instructs
Bland Holt to proceed to Brighton as the suicided
Thompson, and on that false pretence to pick up
whatever ready cash, title deeds, mortgage instru-
mentsand the like maybegoing. Bland cheerfully
undertakes this criminal enterprise because he
loves Miss Champion. Arrived at Brighton
Bland joins forces with the Baroness and her
daughter, and in the course of 15 minutes makes
himself liable for about 50 years’ imprisonment
with hard labor. One of his most profitable
“ THE FLOOD TIDE," SYDNEY ROYAL.
Mrs. Bland and actor Brown saved by the
winning gee-gee Recruit.
coups is to lift £10,000 in ready cash off a company
■promoter on the understanding that the latter
may float Thompson’s best diamond mine as a
public concern. At this stage the audience turns
in a stupent condition and considers the fortunes
of Captain Champion, Y.C. His fellow officers
dislike him. He demands heatedly of the gallery
why this should be in the case of one who has
shed his life’s ber-lud in the cause of the Fer-lag,
and so forth. The ostensible reason advanced
is that his father runs a pub. To the
writer it seems to be more a question
of hair. The Captain of Max Maxwell has the
maddeningly loquacious and rococo personality
that habitually accompanies beautiful, long, shiny,
black head-foliage. He possesses an amazing
number of virtues, but, like the rest of his
kind, he is over-clamant about them. He
would “go” like blazes at a church
bazaar or Sabbath-school bun-fight, but in
barracks he appears as an exotic. Accordingly,
we are not surprised when his companions in
arms violently assault him in his bedroom. In-
cidentally, while doing so. they discover the
daughter of Colonel Sir Russell Corry lurk-
ing, in all innocence, in a cupboard. Next
day, the captain’s £9000-horse annexes the
big race at Kempton. His parent snares a
sufficient sum in bets to clear up his
monetary trouble. However, about here the
suicided millionaire inopportunely returns.
A while later, the millionaire, Bland, and
a foreigner named Derago eventuate in
a reservoir. The foreigner is there with the ob-
ject of killing Thompson, or Bland, or anyone
else with cash —assassination without the option
being his main hobby. Shortly afterwards the
dam bursts, and apparently hurls the trio into
eternity. Here the writer left for home mentally
defying Cecil Raleigh, Esq., to free his characters
from the maze of trouble in which they were in-
volved.
As to the acting, Bland Holt is vivacious
as Clipp, and Mrs. Bland is worthy, honest and
affectionate as Miss Champion. Champion,
senior, in the hands of Charles Brown, is as
innocent an old party as ever aided and abetted
crime. Max Maxwell portrays his son, the Y.C.,
as a beautiful young actor-man chock-full of fire
and soul and eloquence. Arthur Styan’s dipso-
maniacal millionaire, MacNaughton-Thompson, is
an interesting creation, and the adventuress of
Harrie Ireland is a satisfactory sample of the
breed. There are some pleasingly-filled ingenue
parts, a number of unusual, not to say incredible,
British officers, and many earnestly-handled
minor rdles. The scenic effects are excellent.
* * * *
“ The King of Cadonia,” at Her Maj. (Syd-
ney), resembles “Hamlet” minus the Ghost, the
Wade Government devoid of a grievance, or any
other incomplete thing, for Bert Gilbert is out of
the cast. The diverting mime is ill, and his place is
filled temporarily by another —one G. Nable. The
rest of the company is in good health, and the
throne of Cadonia will be filled by its present
occupant till further notice.
* * * *
At Sydney Criterion, “Cinderella ’ con-
tinues to attract the dross which is the root of
all drinks, regardless of the fact that it (the
play, not the dross and the drinks) has been
running for seven weeks. Several new songs
have been introduced, and on a recent night
a rumor was current along the length and breadth
of Pitt-street that a perfectly fresh jape had done
a preliminary canter at this playhouse. Be the
report true or false, it is a fact that the houses
lately have been amazing.
* * * *
Captain Winston’s seals impart quite a
religious flavor to the bill of Sydney Tivoli. They
look like sleek sea-curates as they bark hoarsely
over their pulpits, and their flippers suggest the
cloth-encumbered arms of the clergyman in his
working garb. To complete the resemblance,
their strange terminations are like the lower ends
of elongated surplices. If the Truth is ever
planted in the Polar regions, The Bulletin is
willing to lay six archbishops to one .vicar that
seals will do the job. However, their well-oiled
religious aspect doesn’t prevent them saying
“D—n” publicly. During their performance,
when the small humorous seal is trying to
get the big, soft globe balanced on his snout,
he has to chase it down to the footlights,
nip it with his teeth, toss it into the air, and
catch it. It is the difficult preliminary to their
best concerted trick, and he generally has to make
three or four attempts. Usually, after the second
unsuccessful try, he whirls round to the audience
and shouts “ D n ! ” It is a loud, wild, human
“D n,” and the fact that it is said in Sealish
makes no difference ; it is so plain that no trans-
lation is needed. The three Sprightly Sisters
have a change of programme, including a clever
doll dance. They are a joyous trio, and when
they rush through a romantic burlesque it is like
three clever girls romping at home. One of the
great charms of their performance is that they
seem to enjoy their own fun. Other cheering
turns are supplied by theKremka Brothers, Blake
and Granby, and Ronald George, a young instru-
mentalist from London.
* * *-
“ A Village Priest,” following “The Flag
Lieutenant” at Melbourne Princess’s, is as wel-
come as the flask of whisky that waits upon the
water bottle. Sydney Grundy’s sterling play,
prompted by a trashy French melodrama, has an
ardent spiritual nature, the spirit being a few
degrees overproof. It isn’t an absolutely great
play. The miracle at the end of the fourth act is
unnecessary to the completion of the plot, and is
an artistic defect in an otherwise reasonable story ;
so is the suggestion of the Abbe still feeling
a pain in his good old heart when he is re-
minded of his youthful fondness for the future
Madame D’Arcay 40 years ago. Naturalism is
sacrificed to theatrical effect every time the Abbe
pauses before telling a pious fib, as though pious
prevarication were not the Church’s business.
Nevertheless, “A Village Priest “—they call it
“The V.P.” nowadays—is a strong, well-knit
drama, wherein the eternal verities are sternly
maintained. The sin of the Comtesse finds her
out and shows her no mercy. For the crime of
the late Judge D’Arcay several virtuous people
have to suffer. Nevertheless, histombstone will con-
tinue to record him as an irreproachable husband,
a pattern father, and an ornament to the Bench.
The guilt of that exalted citizen is no sooner
brought to light than it is hidden away again.
All of which is as it is, and ever shall be, world
without end.
The present revival has some special points
of attraction. Titheradge is an even better Abbe
than of yore. His handling of the character is a
little more gentle and paternal; there is no shade
of insincerity, no suspicion of stage craft in his
utterances, even when he has to pause, by stage
directions, on the verge of telling a tarradiddle.
Cyril Maclcay, as the Judge’s son, gives an earnest,
well-restrained presentment of the character. He
is the enthusiastic lawyer, open to conviction from
the start and quick to perceive the possibility
of truth in Torquenie’s protestations. Gregan
McMahon, as the convict, wears a more crushed
and soiled appearance than his predecessors ; he
is less combative, and therefore more likely to
return to prison and wear a “ martyr’s crown.”
Though his elocution is somewhat artificial
and his recognition of old D’Arcay’s por-
trait doesn’t produce the thrilling effect
that Robert Brough achieved when he shook
his fist at the painting, McMahon gives full
value to the part. Miss Emma Temple, a trifle
hard in manner, speaks the lines of Madame
D’Arcay feelingly, except when she asks the Abbe
if he wants more money, in the tone of an un-
cheerful philanthropist. Miss Ethel Warwick, as
Jeanne Torquenie, also errs on the side of severity,
whilst Miss Elwvn Harvey is getting the sym-
pathy of the audience for her winsome sketch of
Marguerite. The strong part of the Comtesse
falls to Miss Dorothy Grimston, who looks it
admirably and plays it not very well. There’s an
unpleasant harshness in her voice when she grows
emotional. Her sob is real enough, but her
violent agitation, terminating in the orthodox
stage swoon, is only half expressed. Miss Ger-
trude Boswell, as the Abbe's housekeeper, dabbles
in farcical comedy with ill-success; and the
scenerv is good enough. When “The Village
Priest” has breathed his last amen, another
revival of “Sherlock Holmes” will transpire.


A reliable medicine for croup, and one
that should always be kept on hand for immedi-
ate use is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CAUY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
“ And here’s a han,’ ma trusty friend,
And gie’s a hand o’ thine ;
We’ll sup the cup o’ kindness yet,
For the days o’ Auld Lang Syne l
For Auld Lang Syne, ma dear,
For faithful hearts and pure !
And gin’ ye catch a muckle cold,
Tak’ Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure! ”*
A trouble with “ The Duchess of Dantzic ”
is that the opera has a lot of consecutive
narrative which overshadows the music, and
which lost its novelty long ago. As an opera,
“Dantzic” lacks frivolity—the most successful
number is Lefebvre’s sturdy drinking song in the
first act —and as “ a drama, interrupted by' music,”
it is poor in dialogue. Moreover, the poorest lines
are spoken by the almighty potentate who rules
the social storm. His final words are “Get
up, Duchess, you shan’t die. You shall live
to tell the world that you have beaten
Napoleon.” One can hardly feel much re-
spect for a Bonaparte who resembles the
Face at the Window and talks pretentious
nonsense. An im-
pressive Nap. might
have gone a long
way in popular esti-
mation ; but Wv-
bert Stamford
merely provokes a
smile at certain
moments when he
is supposed to be a
cause for serious
dismay. Another
grave mistake in
the Napoleonic con-
nection is a color-
less Josephine, ad-
dicted to sneering
somewhat at Flor-
ence Young. She
ought to have been
Marie Louise. Mel-
bourne has taken its
notions of Josephine
from “ A Royal
Divorce,” and an
opera that puts her
in an unfavorable
light would have
to be very tuneful
to condone the
offence. “Dantzic”
is less tuneful than
might be expected
of “Ivan Caryll,”
the composer. But
it is supported by
the Williamson
chorus, in gay
dresses. And the
little lot of alleged
milliners’ assistants
whocOme bounding
into the gardens at
Fontainebleau are
one of the most
pleasing interrup-
tions that ever
earned a double encore at Her Majesty’s.
“ Othello ” will desist from breaking re-
cords at Melbourne Royal after Friday night.
Meanwhile, the dusky Moor is the topic of the
tea-table and the observed of all observers.
People are struck by the fact that he is the happy
medium between Irving Saylesand Mourzouk, the
stout Algerian gentleman who used to be paid a
salary bv wrastler Carkeek to suffer defeat on the
mat. Also, it is remarked that the warrior
never appears anywhere without something on
his head. He gets his hair off, in a figura-
tive way of speaking, but he always wears
a weird hat or cap or a turban on the place
where his wool ought to grow. The exact
nature of the vegetation (if any) on Othello’s
scalp will be a theme of Shakspearian debate
for another day, and then the disciples of the Bard
will once more bump up against the question as to
what becomes of the exiled ducal party in the
Forest of Arden whilst their clothes are being
washed and ironed. Likewise the lovely appear-
ance of Orlando, who has left home without any
luggage, will call for scholarly explanation. “As
You Like It” is billed for Saturday, and all the
seats have, presumably, been booked in advance.
Needless to say that Miss Lily Brayton will be
Rosalind. lan Penny, who plays Montano in
“ Othello,” will burst forth as Orlando on Satur-
day, whilst Oscar Asche assumes the character of
the dyspeptic Jacques, and drops into melancholy.
** * *
At Melbourne King’s there was a strong
demand for real Australian goods during Agricul-
tural Show week, and “ The Bushwoman ” sup-
plied the want. Jo Smith’s drama doesn’t dis-
improve on acquaintance. Its cheeks glow with
local color. There are gum leaves in its hair, and
hayseeds in its whiskers. And its horses are now
behaving admirably under trying circumstances.
One of the gee-gees brings Dalgleish into notice
from time to time; and when Dalgleish appears
as a mounted trooper and takes out his notebook,
the present writer reckons that he is looking at
an Australian cop on whom there are no flies.
* * * *■
At Melbourne Opera House the small
dogs of RosinaCasselli are repeating their remark-
able performance with the same elegant fittings
and appointments as before. And the rest of the
bill is what it was a week ago, plus Eva Lee and
her Twothpicks.
** * *
Tait’s entertainment at Melbourne Athe-
naeum is commended to the recognition of all
juveniles between six and 60. This week there is
an abundance of primitive, picturesque gentle-
men who have tastes for wild love-making and
untidy homicides. There is, for instance, a char-
acter named Morgan, who knifes his way to the
rescueofadamsel, and finishes a festival of slaughter
with an expert hanging sensation. There is a
cowboy yarn full of dashing bronchos, Injuns and
doormat pants, which occur on the rolling prairie,
seemingly within a train ride of the Parisian
boulevards. There is still further a narrative of a
nice girl, a motor-car johnny and a Yankee
“ bad man,” and in that the bad man gets a
bullet, while the johnny takes the girl. But the
most interesting picture is “The Salvation
Army Lass,” where one of Booth’s female
warriors converts the “bloke” who has belted
her —which is a dastardly reflection on the sanity
of the superior sex.
* -* * *
West’s pictures at Melbourne Olympia
continue to be bright and topical. On Saturday
there were extracts from the cross Channel aero-
plane flights of Bleriot and Latham, who appear
to have made space their metropolis, and left the
earth merely outer-suburban. There were also
snapshots of a Russian religious festival
(wherein each priest is a pageant in himself).
and of some unpronounceable places in
Mexico, which are simply heretical in the
fashion of their hats. “Doomed,” which begins
with an idyll and ends up in the basement of the
Pit, is a disgraceful libel on the supernatural
powers of Mephistophele.s; while “The Son’s
Return ” is an exemplary study in parental
affection. When the good son returns unrecog-
nised to his papa and mamma, his welcome is
gratifying and unexpected. He is tapped on the
cranium for the contents of his wallet.
■sr Hr
The Tivoli is Adelaide’s leading theatre for
the moment. Its prices are up, while those of the
Royal are temporarily' down; and still Manager
AMY CASTLES.
Her latest and most Heaven-gazing photograph.
Photo, by Lafayette , Melbourne.
Marcus is turning money away. The magician
Chung is the attraction. He has now carefully
explained his pedigree ; and the Scotch-engineer
strain is visible in all his works. They are mar-
vels of mechanical ingenuity and good stage-
management. The Empire has a popular variety
show at about half Tivoli prices, the Tybells
getting the largest type for their iron-jawed
work in mid-air; the Royal is playing a
melodrama, “Married to the Wrong Man”
(recklessly called “ the present sensation of
England”); and West’s Pictures unobtrusively
contrive to keep the Town Hall crowded, though
Amy Castles is about to turn them out of it. Also
the leading amateur crowd, the “ Appendreena,”
has given a really good and well-balanced rendering
of that fine but difficult play, “ The Idler.” The
characters are few, and there was not a weak spot
among them.
Judge Murray, of N.S.W., worked off a
bright saying the other day, which wasn’t really
so bright as it looked. A policeman was in the
box trying to convict the accused on the favorite
finger-print evidence. He said, out of the illimit-
able knowledge which the cop gathers on his beat
in Surry Hills, that no two finger-prints were
alike. The defendant’s lawyer retorted that the
officer hadn’t examined the finger-prints of all the
fourteen hundred million people on the globe, so
that, to all intents and purposes, he was talking
through his helmet. Further, hepbihted out as an
unsatisfactory element in thecase.thattheliterature
on the finger-print subject was mostly'written by
policemen for policemen. Then Judge Murray
heaved a remark off his chest : “I believe,” he
said, “there are text books which are written by
astronomers for astronomers and they are the best
books.” The defendant’s lawyer is said to have
been squashed by this huge observation, but it is
difficult to see why. If an astronomer made his
living by getting the planets and the fixed stars
into gaol, then his book showing how to convict
Sirius of furious driving among the constellations
might also be viewed with suspicion. But as the
astronomer can’t have any ulterior motive, he
hardly comes into the same category as the police
theorist with his finger-print theory.
A game old battler gave some improbable-
sounding evidence before the Undertakers’ Wages
Board in Sydney last week. His tale set forth
that he is 56 and is a “casual” in the planting
trade. He earns 2s. 6d. for a “ carry,” the same
for a “mind ” (i.e., for guarding the hearse while
the buriers are away committing deceased to the
cemetery, lest small hoys should play “tig” round
the blackened vehicle), and ss. fora “drive.” If
the “drive” is a four-horse affair the fee amounts
to 6s. 6d., on account of the risk —the hearse-
horse being liable to bolt. The witness said that
he snares, all told, by these services a trifle under
£1 weekly. Out of that he pays 9s. a week rent,
supports a wife and daughter, and gives them “meat
once a day.” And he owes no bills of any kind, nor
has done so during the six years and upwards that
he has been a supernumerary undertaker. It
seems essentially a field wherein the Socialistic
tiger might roar to advantage ; in fact, if the
clamor rose to a scream, and resulted in the wages
of undertakers’ “casuals” being raised 100 per
cent, or so, a compassionate and fair-minded
public—which will have to die itself some day,
and won’t wish to be attended in that dark hour
by a villainously sweated “ minder ’’—would pro-
bably greet the reform with relief.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Mrs. Nordica, the prima donna, was married in London
the other week to George Washington Young-, of New
York ; and, although the wedding was “ very quiet,” a
duchess or two figured among the audience. Nordica’s
maiden name was Norton, seemingly, for the certificate
described her as Lilian Doeme, formerly Norton, divorced
wife of Yoltan Doeme, and daughter of Edwin Norton,
deceased. Neither was the bridegroom a novice at nup-
tials. George Washington was described as divorced
husband of Natalie Young, formerly Bray, son of Peter
Young, deceased. Evidently he is in a position to support
a prima donna, for his place of residence prior to the
ceremony had been the Hotel Ritz, where only million-
aires can meet the bill without a shudder, and his present
to the bride was a rope of pearls.
“0.K.”: Foster Fraser, lecturing on “America Up
To Date,” is probably Foster Fraser at his weakest, from
an Australian point of hearing. It is the Briton trying
to draw as many impartial comparisons as are possible in
favor of England, and as few as possible in favor of
America. His views are mostly superficial, and his con-
clusions are apt to be contradictory. Seeing that his lec-
ture on America “goes” well enough, and his heavy
touches of humor excite some laughter, one is compelled
to admit that Foster Fraser knows his business. He is
fluent without being eloquent: positive, yet not egotis-
tical ; interesting rather than instructive. As for the
lantern-slides that illustrate his discourse, they fall short
of the demands of these cinematographic times. To the
people who sit regularly in front of the cine, screen,
lantern-slides are no longer exciting.
Typhoid has proved fatal in Westralia to Alec Verne,
who was managing- the Maggie Moore-Roberts company
for Clarke, Meynell and Gunn. Verne entered into
management about 10 years ago with J. F. Sheridan (The
Widow O’Brien). He was but 40 years of age when he
passed out.
“J.K.”: Charles Bailey', the Melbourne “medium,”
and his “spirit controls” Abdul, Selim, Dr. Wbitcombp,
Professor Denton and co., have been putting in a short
season in Wellington (M.L.). Bailey’s stock-in-trade com-
prises a small collection of “apports,” which the spirits
dematerialise (in the dark), a smattering of “psychic”
jargon, and a number of wealthy and other cranks. The
pro -eedings at the stances have been on the old lines—
examination of the medium, darkness, and addresses by
“spirit controls”; restoration of the gaslight, and the
amazing discovery that the spirits have produced a bird,
or an egg, or a foreign mat-apron ! And the believers
murmur “Wonderful!” while the sceptics ask questions
which Bailey displays much resource in fencing. Chiefly
the sceptics have asked for more convincing “ apports.”
If the spirits can produce a bird, why not an elephant?
Why not something that could not by any means be con-
cealed about the person? At one sbance, the usual de-
mand went up for a copy of that day’s London Times.
Bailey said he could produce the sheet, but he had pro-
mised that it should be done in the presence of Mr. Stan-
ford, his wealthy patron, and it would plainly never do
to break faith with the man of money. When the
questions became too inconvenient, the faithful, headed
by W. McLean, ex-M.P., chairman of the Wellington
Spiritualists’ Association, would come to the medium’s
rescue with polite cries of “Shame ! ” A local Doctor of
Philosophy asked the spirit where Stanley was born, and
was informed that it was in America. When the
questioner pointed out that the explorer was born in
Wales, McLean said this was “ irrelevant to the address.”
“ Dr. Whitcombe” was requested by the local scientist to
explain the difference between “induction ” and “ deduc-
tion,” but McLean then rose in a hurry to complain that
this sort of cross-examination was “ disturbing- the vibra-
tions.” A Wellington conjurer has put up £lOO as a
wager that he will do any trick Bailey’s spirits are capable
of. McLean has covered the money, but the usual haggle
has started about the conditions.
“ Billy T.” : Much severe censure of town-bred Austra-
lians was scattered through “ The Bushwoman ” for the
benefit of Show visitors in Melbourne the other week.
The Australian from the bush and range and plain and
desert was eulogised as the noblest work of God; the
townie was sternly rebuked as a miserable sinner, tailor-
made and seething in conceit, who lives on the tiller and
the grand, still toiler who handles Cow. There were
bitter references to shocking injustices inflicted on
Farmer Billjim by,town-made legislation, and t,he rural
invasion pounded the floor with its solid feet, and ex-
pressed its appreciation with intolerable noise. A be-
whiskered bushie next me was enormously delighted with
all the guff about the splendid independence of the bloke
on the soil. I learned in the interval that he was expect-
ing to get a lump of money as consolation for his recent
flood troubles ; he had done well out of an artificially-
cherished butter industry; more than once he had
received seed wheat gratis; and twice he had been
liberally compensated for damage done by bush fires that
vastly improved his grass paddocks.
“Parisine”: Re Napoleons of the stage—in Australia
there have been a number. I think Stamford’s, in “ The
Duchess of Dantzic,” is the most convincing for appear-
ance. For one thing he is short enough. His acting is
not so impressive as J. Knight’s, but then he has nothing
like so good a play, from a Napoleonic point of view.
The peculiar semi-nasal delivery of Knight seems as if it
might have been Bonev’s. Cecil Ward was creditable.
Atholwood was better. Brough could not be Bonaparte,
except that his elocution, though different from that of
J. Superfluous, seemed also as if it might have beep
Napoleon’s. Irving’s performance was an amazing feat,
like his Robespierre—both mere curiosities. Gomersal,
at the London Astley’s, was the accepted Napoleon.
Duquesne is about the best in Paris. He was here with
Bernhardt. By the way, he figures as ex-Sultan Abdul
Hamid in West’s biograph picture. Has anybody heard
0 f Abdul Hamid lately? What did he die of?
“S.S.”: Saw the “Australian Dartos” again at
Rickards’ Melbourne house. They have improved out of
sight, have worked new gyrations into their cyclonic
dances, and are now whirling through a breathless turn
that should shake up a vaudeville audience anywhere on
earth. Give the auburn-haired Edie M‘Lean two years
more to bring out all the qualities that are in her, and
this little part.y should take Paris by the hair. But every
day the folly of the name they jig under becomes more
apparent. They were the Baby Dartos a few years back,
and their turn was only a clever imitation. Now they
are almost grown-ups, their dancing has taken on indi-
vidual quality and original features, and in calling them-
selves “The Dartos” they still bear the brand of slavish
imitators, and invite odious comparisons. It would be
fatal to go abroad so dubbed, and it is time for the young
Macks to make a name for themselves.
“Floater”: Miss Amy Castles maybe a great singer,
which one naturally deduces from her singular hatred of
advertisement, but I should say that she is a much greater
writer. I have seen her ravishing autograph, which
strikes me as most accomplished. Further, it has such a
profusion of flourishes, and such a suggestion of having
been done with a mapping pen and a blacking brush, that
I should be glad to know what nib she uses. I should
love to be able to write my name like Miss Amy. Some-
times I marvel at the time, trouble and concentration
s e must have spent in practising that signature. But I
marvel more at the divine gifts of invention and imagina-
tion that enabled her to conceive it. It is convincing.
She writes “Castles” with battlements, moats, draw-
bridges and everything complete.
Beerbohm Tree held his “ Shakspeare Festival ” at Her
Majesty’s (London) in July. The festival is now a regular
annual happening, beloved of the people who form
societies for the consideration of the Bard’s hidden mean-
ings and last possible comma. Within a fortnight eight
plays were produced. Two or three different companies,
and a varied selection of ladies for the heroine parts, were
brought into action during the two weeks. When
“ Hamlet” was produced, Marie Lohr got a show as
Ophelia ; and young Marie Lohr in these youthful parts
(which have hitherto been monopolised by middle-aged
actresses) is a delightful novelty. Charles Tait, just back
from Europe, tells of how he was charmed by Marie as
Lady Teazle. When she first appeared he couldn’t accept
her as a real Lady Teazle. She seemed too light and
irresponsible. All the other Lady Teazles he had ever
seen were so different from this young girl. Presently he
arrived at the conclusion that none of the others had been
a little bit like the real Lady Teazle, whereas Marie Lohr
was just she. Within her powers as a light emotional
comedy actress, Marie is always just She.
“Melb.”: There are amazing coincidences between
Randolph Bedford’s “White Australia”and West’s bio-
graph of a Japanese attack on California. Yet neither
could possibly have been drawn from the other. In
“ White Australia ” a Japanese spy is a kind of butler to a
squatter. In the biograph a Jap spy is butler to General
Wayne, a sort of squatter. In “White Australia” the
Jap spy kills the telegraph operator at Daly Waters and
cuts the wire. In the biograph he kills a sentry
at Santa Barbara telegraph station and cuts the
wire. In “White Australia” the Jap spy schemes
to get the plan of defence and the key of the airship. In
the biograph he steals the plan and sends it by airship
to the Japanese fleet. In “White Australia” a woman
is killed by the side of a cannon among the defenders.
Exactly the same thing in the biograph. The scenes of
the entry of the Japanese troops are much alike, except
that the Yankee is privileged to bring in a lot of cavalry.
“ E.M.K.” : Consider the case of the Native Mumming
Bird. Importation’s got him in a bad way ,and he’s likely
to be worse before he’s better. Along with the entrance
of Meynell and Gunn’s Oscar Asche co. of Englishmen
happened the exit from the same management of some 15
Australian mummers—no further use for them, they were
told. J.C.W. is sending out a complete company of
Frohman’s, and three other English lots are to follow.
Our own, our very own, bellowdrama king, Billanderson,
has sickened with the disease ; his leading man is im-
ported, and now come two Englishwomen for his new
play—“ The Bush woman,” of all plays ! A sinister rumor
floating about Poverty Point tells of the brutal utterance
of the senior partner of a certain management: “I
wouldn’t have an Australian in my companies if I could
help it.” Yet it was a play financed by Australians and
produced by an Australian that set this manager on his
feet. Some years ago another manager was credited with
a similar sentiment; since then he has lost, it is said,
£50,000. He is now being put on his feet by an Australian
star who stuck to him through all, and saved him from
going completely down and out. Before too late we
might preserve at least one or two specimens of the Aus-
tralian Mumming Bird as curiosities for future genera-
tions to amuse themselves with.
A recent sensation in the way of things theatrical in
the Big Smoke is a play bearing the grandiloquent title,
“ The Earth.” It is a very realistic skit upon Harms-
worth and his Daily Mail. The leading character, Sir
Felix Janion, is so easily recognisable that the man in
the street never troubles to call him Sir Felix Janion.
As in “An Englishman’s Home ” the audience always
speaks of the unknown invaders as German, so in “The
Earth” no one refers to Felix, but always to Harmsworth
or Lord Northcliffe. Half of the play is clever, giving,
with but slight exaggeration, the actual daily happen-
ings in an up-to-date newspaper office. The plot has to
do with the paper’s fight against the Sweating Bill
that certain members are trying to rush throug-h
Parliament. But when Janion stoops to blackmail, and
uses information acquired as a host in order to ruin his
guest, the play falls down and never quite recovers. It
is there that it becomes unreal, stagey, libellous and
utterly fantastic. Yet nothing could be happier and
more diverting than the delightful caricature of Harms-
worth as given in the first scenes. Of course he triumphs
over the Sweating Bill, and then before the final curtain
there comes the finest sarcasm of all. While the world is
ringing with the news of his victory he sternly silences
the jubilations of his writers over a thing that is past,
and summons them to listen to his latest idea—an
“Infants’ Encyclopaidia,” describing everything in the
world and illustrated in colors !
“S.S.” : A combine of Australian theatrical managers
has been instituted “for the better control of various
matters connected with the business,” and Cornelius
’Amfat of the Point explains. Cornelius has been out of
the game for many years, during which time he has
almost cut through one particular Melbourne verandah-
post with his spine. “ They are all against me, sir, all of
them,” said Cornelius. “They ha-hate a-me. They
know if I got me chance I would soon ha-have Melbourne
by the a-wool, sir. It is a combination to a-keep me out,
to ha-hold me a-down. They have kept me de-own for
ta-wenty years, but me time will a-come, and I shall be
the a-proudest act-or-manager of them all. Meanwhile,
if you ha-have a threepenny piece about you. Ah ! Ido
not a-thank you, sir. It is me due.” He was already-
sliding across the road for his dew.
THE BURGLAR MIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I Early last week the house occupied by Mrs. T. Garvin,
in Park-street, Brunswick West, was entered by burglars,
; who took Mr. and Mrs. Garvin’s marriage certificate. The
, burglars returned on Saturday morning, with the follow-
ing letter :
Dear Madam, —
I herewith take the earliest opportunity of forward-
ing private manuscript of yours, which has, as you
are aware, fallen into my hands. One thing, my mate
and I have come to the conclusion is that your little
child is about the sweetest little thing in the world,
watching us enter the room, and never a murmur
from it.—Burglar Bill.— News Item.
And so the long-expected has arrived ;
The day of stress is here ;
The mummer (who, till now, by Art contrived
To snare his daily beer)
Has had to drop the trade at which Kean thrived
In order to appear
With jemmies, bulls-eyes, “ sneakers ” and the like
Upon the world’s broad stage
In the “ fat ” r6le of burglar. He must strike
For a fair drinking wage,
E'en though in taking such a step, belike
He makes the public rage.
Yet am I fearful that his burgling run
Will turn out to be brief.
He who adventures forth at set of sun
To play the part of thief
Needs to elude and baffle the John Dunn ;
Also his watchful chief.
The actor can’t—no matter how he pines.
He’s patent as the day.
Stage custom aye his burgling undermines.
Take, in this case, the way
He venerates the Che-ild and Marriage Lines—
It gives him right away.
n.s.w.
10-2-4.
“SKY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The balance of the show is sky.—Bulletin, 12.S/'09.
Dear Bulletin, —If I might paraphrase
The Bard (he’s mightj- popular these days),
I’d say : “ I thank thee, B., for that good line,”
It likes me well ” (the Bard again) ; it’s fine.
How often —oh, how oft!—right through a show
I’ve sat —a patient martyr, steeped in woe !
“ All stars,” the programme told me. ’Twas a lie !
One constellation shone, the rest was “ sky.”
Apt word, long wanted ! I’m in sympathy
With him who coined it—hence my thanks, dear B,
All kinds of much-boomed entertainments I
Have been to —for my sins—when all was “ sky.”
And shall ag'ain, perchance, for shows must be
Well-trumpeted to bring- the “ brass,” d’ye see 1
The day-bill draws us and our seats we buy—
We don’t knoiv till ive get inside it’s “ sky ” /
But on occasion when outside once more,
We’ll meet the manager just by the door ;
I wonder how he’ll take it if we try
On him this phrase : “ Your show is blooming sky !”
N.S.W.
E. T.


PLEASANT AND VALUABLE TREAT-
MENT FOR REDUCING WEIGHT.
A Remarkable Recipe.
Common-sense should tell every stout man or
woman that no lasting good could ever be obtained
by fasting and exercising, nor by any other means
of wasting the tissues. Such methods are, indeed,
extremely dangerous and often tend to break down
a vigorous constitution. The bulkiest figures can
ibe reduced to natural proportions by a simple pre-
paration, the ingredients of which can be obtained
.-at any chemist’s. You can make the mixture
yourself. Ask for half an ounce of Marmola (see
ithat you get it in an unbroken package), one ounce
«of fluid extract of Glycyrrhiza 8.P., one ounce of
spure Glycerine 8.P., and Peppermint Water to
make six ounces in all; shake well together in a
good sized clean bottle. The regular dose is two
•teaspoonfuls after meals and at bedtime. The
(reduction that this harmless mixture will effect
will surprise you ; and you need not alter your
usual diet or give up your comfortable way of
living. You will soon find that you are normally
•slender, and ever so much better in health—
stronger, livelier, more energetic.*
Ordinary ability, plus a good memory, makes
success, and half an hour daily for six weeks will perfect
•your memory. The Pelman System is the natural one—
easily and quickly acquired, permanent benefits, simple
and very interesting-. Taught by post. Write Pelman
School of Memory, 3 Stock Exchange Bldg., Melbourne.*
A TRUSTWORTHY Timekeeper
We here illustrate a really first-class watch —a watch
which is full of good points.
Reliability, good appearance and durability are three
of its outstanding qualities.
Cased in gun metal or nickel, with open face, and stem
wound. It's a timekeeper anyone would be
proud to own.
The MOST notable feature, however, of the H. & K.
Watch is the price.
It's really wonderful value at 20/-, post free.
We pay postage on all orders.
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
o
3
3
4-
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Watchmakers,
Jewellers, Opticians,
98 King: Street, Sydney.
Society
“EAST LYNNE ” IN THE SUBURBS.
BARBARA HARE: “ Alas! Alas! Why did he
pass me over for a baby-faced chit like that ? ”
On two occasions lately the Seven Seas
might have been blown out of their Seven Beds
and awakened in a smother of foam to find stars
raining down on them from the cracked and
•splintered heavens. The first time was when the
fSteamer Borkum, with 4000 cases of dynamite
aboard, caught tire. The second was when the
Indralema of the Tyser line, with a record cargo
<of 600 tons of the same substance below hatches,
ran into a jumble of sea so awful that the captain
could only attribute it to a seaquake. It took 24
hours at a speed of nine knots an hour to cross the
rough area, and during all that time the propeller
only managed to grip the water now and again,
owing to the fact that the ship only hit the sea
now and again—the rest of the time it was in the
air. Every joint of the vessel shrieked aloud
during the jolting, and the thought of 600 tons of
dynamite taking leaping exercise below suffused
the occasion with doubt and made the garboard
strake think about its past life. Quite a number
of terrified passengers remarked wildly then that
the importing business was overdone, and that
Australia could easily make its own dynamite.
The scientific world seems to regard Dr.
Cook’s yarn about having reached the North Pole
with a slightly-fishy expression, and shows a
desire to ask for proofs. So far, the number of
Polar hoaxes has been remarkably small; yet
there were few directions in which a really cir-
cumstantial liar could have gone as far without
fear of contradiction. The only Far Northern
hoax the writer can remember was that of the
Yankee who dropped overboard from a whaling
ship, or something of that sort, a curiously-made
copper cylinder which contained an elaborate
account of how he had, alone and unaided,
reached the Pole, and had found there a balmy
climate. He discoursed at length about the
liquor, the absence of poverty, the amusements
and the life generally. Quite superfluously, he
begged that no expedition should be sent to
rescue him, as he would not return, and the Polar
people might not like too many strangers drop-
ping in. No expedition was sent. What knocked
the bottom out of the yarn was that the copper-
smith who made the cylinder recognised the pic-
ture of it in the papers, and furnished the date on
which he supplied it. There was a horrible dis-
crepancy when that date was compared with the
one on the letter inside the casket.
Melbourne’s old historic City Watchhouse
has sheltered its last drunk, and a new. clean
edifice, built at the back of the original Watch-
house, is meeting public requirements. There
are padded cells, hot baths and up-to-date lighting
arrangements in the new premises. Lodgers suf-
fering from acute thirst can touch a button and
get a long drink of water. The lot of the tem-
porary visitor is quite luxurious. Nothing is want-
ing to make the place all that a watchhouse ought
to be save suitable associations. The lack of un-
hallowed memories is so noticeable that some of
Melbourne’s most habitual drunks were melted to
tears the first time they were bundled into the
modern lockup. One old lady complained that
it didn’t even smell homelike.
* * * *
The Yic. Assembly was loitering over a
Bill to amend the Marriage Acts, the other day,
when Labor member Solly brought up the question
of the physical condition of intending brides and
bridegrooms. Solly suggested that something
should be done by the Legislature to prevent con-
sumptives from marrying consumptives, and so
on. Premier Weary very nicely agreed with
Solly ; but he was not prepared to do the some-
thing. In the interests of high morality he was
then engaged in squelching the marriage-shop
scandals; but in the interests of health and the
future he remained profoundly sleepy and in-
different. Yet if it comes to a choice between the
wedding of irresponsible drunks in a “shop”
and the marriage of irresponsible diseases in a
church, the latter is liable to be infinitely the
worse. The first may result in temporary curses
and regrets ; but the second may carry the curses
and regrets through several generations.
* * * *
If the reports are true, wireless has at last
made the big jump, and the submarine cable is an
out-of-date institution. According to the Times,
of Manila, the U.S. transport Sheridan lately
contrived to talk to San Francisco across 3270
miles of sea—a record-breaking conversation which
is all the more remarkable since ships’instruments
are very much weaker than those of the long-
distance stations, where the operator has as much
power as he can yoke up. Up
till quite recently the effective
range of powerful shore stations
was reckoned at about 1000 miles.
Last year the operator on the
Bremen, of the N.D.L. Co.’s
Australian service, just managed
to catch a whisper or two from
the German wireless headquarters
whilst the liner was at Port Said
on the outward voyage. But he
could not talk back, as his in-
struments were good only for
about 250 miles—which was a
couple of thousand miles short.
Hitherto the best wireless work
has been done mostly by war-
ships, which can spare more
power and space to the wireless
men than can the average hurried
liner. The big shore jump of the
wonder spark is bound to happen
soon, and it would be rash to set
any limit to it. Even if it doesn’t
circle the earth in one flash, it looks highly pro-
bable that it will spring across a continent or an
ocean or two; and, in the light of that reflection,
the deep sea cables begin to look very old property
indeed.
-*•***
In a recent Melbourne suburban police-
court case between mistress and maid, it was
testified that the trouble arose through the maid’s
habit of making love to the vegetable Chow. She
persistently “ kissed and embraced ” the heathen
in the kitchen. 'And the reporter described her
as “ a prepossessing young person.” Why is it
that so many prepossessing young persons want to
embrace the “ spling callot ” heathen ?
* * * *
Newspaper controversy on the burning
topic of the “Pitfalls of Youth ’’ has established
a sassiety dictionary meaning for the term
“flapper.” A giddy girleen of over 12, but not
yet “come out,” is technically known as a flapper.
One of them, who has put her hair up and been
converted to the true maidenly faith, signs herself
“A Flapper Grown Older,” and gives the game
away in a letter to the Argus, like a (Salvation
Army young woman at a testimony meeting. Her
advice to “ parents in society ” is the very essence
of personal experience :
Don’t give flapper dances unless there are enough
chaperones to prevent couples from disappearing instead
of dancing. It is quite customary for youngsters over 12
to “sit out” in the dark, and their parents would be
horrified at the conversations that take place. Don’t
allow picnics to string on after it is too dark for play.
Children start flirting nowadays at 12 or so. Public
schoolboy s start it, as a rule ; and you have only to talk to
a boy of 19—young enough to be confidential—to find out
what goes on outside the ballroom.
She lays down other golden rules for the manage-
ment of flappers, one of which, alas ! can be quite
as easily honored in the breach as in the observ-
ance. For instance :—Make your sons call for
their sisters when quite small. They then
take it for granted as they grow older, and
the girls are not seen home by the fascinating
male of the season.” But trustfulness in the
fraternal propriety of male youth can be so easily
abused, for if two flapper chums are called for by
their respective brothers the relations are apt td
get mixed, and an all-round oath of secrecy holds
good until the flappers fall out and start to tell on
one another.
By “ Foreign-Going Master ” : —-
The VVaratah is now seven weeks overdue, and, despite
well-meant attempts to keep hope alive, anxietj 7 is giving;
way to despair. Other vessels have remained out longer
than the Lund liner, but there are two ugly facts to be
accounted for. The Waratah was on a short voyage,
much like one between Australian ports, and vessels that
were out at the end of July report fearful weather—not
the sort for a broken-down steamer to roll about in with
impunity. Most seafaring men, when asked their views,
reply with a platitude—if the reply is meant for publica-
tion —about broken tail-shaft, rudder or engine. What
they privately fear is that the VVaratah turned bodily
over. Of late the tendency has been to build passenger
liners up—up and up. Look at the new Orient boats
lying at Circular Quay, Sydney. They are much in
appearance like the Lund boat, and their hurricane decks,
bridge decks, boat decks and so on, are like castles.
They offer a wind surface greater than that of many
a full-rigged ship with all canvas spread. What old sea-
dog would expect his ship under full sail to stand against
a howling gale such as raged on July 27? But the Wara-
tah could not furl its bridge deck, or snug down its
tremendous top-hamper. Give in three things—a tem-
porary breakdown, bunker coal just under the bridge
deck, and empty ballast tanks ; add to these the gale that
was raging, and the Waratah would be in a position in
which only good fortune could avail. The breakdown is
assumed as the best available explanation of the vessel’s
absence. The coal is admitted. The empty ballast tanks
arfe easily possible. In order to trim a ship to its
best draught ballast tanks are often filled and
emptied, and it is quite possible they were empty at
the moment of the hypothetical accident. Whether
the Waratah turns' up or not there is need for inquiry into
the safety, of the hew kind of steamer that looks like an
Alp in the water—the one with the huge wind surfaces
and the funnel which extends up almost to the snow
line. Wireless telegraphy is essential, but it isn’t quite
everything.
* * * *
That suspense which is worse than a
knowledge of the worst is reaping a sad harvest in
Melbourne. Buoyed by the well-meant assertions
of those who must have known better, the wife of
one Melbourne passenger by the Waratah clung
despairingly to the feeblest hopes till, one day,
she found her children putting themselves into
mourning. Then the cord snapped, and now there
is only a poor woman groping in the mental dark.
Another passenger’s relative hung round the office
day after day till she became a pathetic calamity.
Then a brave and kindly skipper took her aside
and told her in so many words that there was no
hope—none whatever. She brokedown completely;
but it probably saved her reason.
Private Enterprise nearly struck the limit
the other day. Australians were recently sur-
prised and not at all flattered by the news that
the Rajah of Bhong, or some such Indian poten-
tate - had generously offered a very large donation
• • i r , i -i • tt - , *? n i -1 i ,
IP alc * the people m Victoria s flooded districts,
R was really good of the Rajah, but victoria
didn’t want to look so dead-broke as all that, and
Premier Weary hastily wired a polite refusal,
Now it transpires how the Rajah had
u-
S ot h ’ s mi * taker Q idea Speculators had
m,X(: e forward contracts for the supply of
cornsacks at certain prices. Then the general
demand for sacks became so great that prices
went up in Calcutta, and some of these
speculations looked bad. So when the news of
vr- • _ ,•„„„„„ ,„ i j
th £ Victorian rains came to hand they were mag-
nihed till all Victoria was under water, all crops
were ruined, and an expected demand for sacks to
hold about 23,000,000 bushels of wheat was oblit-
erated. With this sudden easing of the pressure
on the sack mar k e t, prices went down, and the
• /1 • • i . , £ll -
speculators were just buying in haste to fill their
orders when the liberal offer of the Rajah of Bhong
brought news which blew the bottom out of the
scheme. At latest advices, sacks were so high
that you could hardly see them with a telescope,
“Tiki” - Gisborne ('Pnverfv Ravi chances
. ; .QISDOrne (poverty -Day; cnances
to be the chief town in the vicinity of Cook’s
landing place in Maoriland. The fact has always
weighed heavily on Gisborne, and some time ago
decided to commemorate in statue form the
greatness that had been thrust upon it. Abril-
S&SR
named Boggs) came along and said it would be
nice to carve on the pedestal of the statue the
r,ar i'es of the Boer War troopers (mostly called
J . oh “ Thompson) who fell at the battles
of Henstealenburg and harmburnstroom. Gis-
borne, elated with the joy of doing things, said
it would be so, and the pedestal was thus inscribed,
Ever since, the unfeeling tourist has indulged in
unseemly mirth at the base of the worthy captain’s
statue, and Gisborne has a growing suspicion that
all is not well. In fact, it thinks that all is Hell.
The suspicion has grown to £9O, and an influential
party is still energetically canvassing for subscrip-
tions wherewith to obliterate all mention of how
Private Thompson fell at Drinkyfontein.
A DIFFERENT ROUTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Asked if, in effect, the agreement did not closely
approximate to the Labor party’s Brisbane Conference
proposal, Mr. Deakin admitted that in some measure it
did, though the conclusions arrived at had been reached
independently of that conference’s views, and along
different lines altogether. —Melbourne Age.
Say you have some great objective.
Very well. Be calm, reflective ;
Make no vulgar show of vigor ; ’dsn’t good.
Do not rush the thing directly ;
But approach it circumspectly,
As a gentlemanly politician should.
Though certain consequences hinge upon the laws you
make,
Your prestige in high politics rests with the road you
take.
For the common sort of fellows,
With enthusiastic bellows,
Hush about and shout their schemes in ev’ry ear ;
In their shirt-sleeves, toiling, fretting,
And most vulgarly a-sweating,
Quite without a thought or care how they appear.
And if they do arrive at things a trifle in advance
Their strenuous endeavors go to prove their ignorance.
Have a care for 3’our appearance
If you claim the least adherence
To the genteel game of politics as played
By right-thinking politicians,
Who “ consider their positions ”
Once a week, while common business is delayed.
And shun, O, shun that fearsome fellow eager for a spurt,
And the man who, metaphorically, labors in his shirt.
What though others rush before you ?
What though busy folk ignore you?
Draw your gloves on carefully and take your stick.
Having chosen your direction,
Then proceed, with circumspection,
Stepping out with dignity—but not too quick.
If mere workers are before you, that is what you must
expect;
But reflect, with satisfaction, that your route is more
select.
Then, pray, have no hesitation —
Should you find your destination
Is the same as that of him that humps the load —
In declaring that your action
Gives you perfect satisfaction,
As you reached the place by quite another road.
Ignore his paltry claim to being first—such was his
whim ;
But emphasise the fact that you disdained to follow him.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
MY TEA-ROOM TART
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LEADEN scone or greasy pie, with
weak and tepid tea,
Were, in the happy days gone by, a dainty
lunch for me ;
What’ er before me was set down I didn't care
a rap,
When Nellie wore a cotton gown, an apron
and a cap.
For Nellie’s smiles were very sweet and some
were kept for me :
They flavored all / had to eat —made nectar
of the tea.
I envied nobody in town, with springs of
youth to tap,
When Nellie wore a cotton gown, an apron
and a cap.
She married well, and left the scene of edibles
and tea
(By ‘ ‘ married voell ” I mean, of course, she
didn’t marry me).
I see her often on the Block, but blind as any
bat
Is Nellie in a Paris frock and many guinea
hat.
N.s.w.
J H.T.


No! No! No! No!
This word is used four times by Prof,
W. Hodgson Ellis, Official Analyst to the
Canadian Government, in reporting the
result of his analyses of Sunlight Soap.
“No unsaponified fat ” ; that means no
waste.
“ No free alkali” ; that means no damage
to clothes or hands.
“No loading mixture ”; that means every
atom is pure soap.
“No adulteration whatever ” ; that means
pure ingredients.
Try Sunlight Soap, and you will see
Prof. Ellis is right. He should know.
That Incessant Tickling
• - throat, and all throat and chest troubles
promptly relieved by Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. Price Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing- Saloon, where-
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,.
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance front
George or King Streets).*
Crepe Pyjamas
FOR COMFORT.
Crepe ! Hardly a fabric yet woven has proved so
comfortable for men’s wear ; but up to the present its
use has been confined to shirts. Its satisfactory wear,
however, makes it such good pyjama material, and it
washes so well, that we have chosen special designs in
stripes, etc., for our New Season’s Pyjamas.
The illustration shows the exact style of cutting with
turned-down collar. The seams are particularly well
sewn, and the edges carefully finished off. The
material launders like silk and feels so to the skin, and
consequently we recommend as strongly as possible our
Crepe Pyjamas for your wear this coming warm season.
PRICE, in Pale Green, Blue, Pink, Striped
Crepe (posted, 6d. extra) = ®
OUR HANDSOME CATALOGUE SENT ON REQUEST.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
76
Premier Wade, in his capacity c as N.S.W.
Attorney-General, has blundered into further
heavy law costs in connection with the efforts to
extradite Septimus Smith. Septimus, with other
enterprising people at Capetown, sold some land
—through a fictitious person, so it is alleged—to
certain municipalities. It does not appear that
anyone was defrauded of a cent, and the buyers
got what they paid for ; and it seems immaterial
whether the go-between was flesh and blood or
only ink and paper. In fact, the defence theory
is that Smith simply took a Dutch name in order
to appeal to the prejudices of the Dutchmen he
was dealing with. After making the deal Sep-
timus came to Australia, and the Cape people
wanted him returned. He said he felt more com-
fortable here. A magistrate then ordered his
extradition. The Supreme Court (Wade opposing)
ordered the magistrate to re-hear the application.
He was again ordered to be extradited, and the
Supreme Court (Wade still opposing) directed his
release. Wade then appealed to the High Court,
which endorsed the decision of the Supreme
Court, with the usual old Costs. Just by way of
showing hovy utterly incompetent the High Court
and the Privy Council are, somebody blight to ask
in Parliament how many of Wade’s appeals have
been upheld since he has been Attorney-General ;
likewise what the incompetence of the High Court
and the Privv Council have in that wav cost
N.S.W. in Costs.
THE BIRD'S NEST ARRANGEMENT.
WIFEY : “ You have not condescended to remark
during the afternoon what you think of my
new style of hair.”
THE BRUTE : “O. that! I thought you'd for-
gotten to do it!”
“ Polsfcan,” from the scene of the wreck :
I visited the scene of the McCallum’s Creek (Vic.) rail-
way smash the day after it happened, and was deeply
impressed with many things. Everybody who was in
that train ought to have a go at “ Tatt.’s ” while his luck
is still in. As a wreck it would be hard to beat, and
yet only minor injuries were received. The driver
was flung into a steel sheep truck, and not through the
door either; he apparently de-materialised himself and
slid between the bars. Half the train bal.nced itself on
the edge of the crazy Yankee bridge, the startled pas-
sengers gazing into a torrent 20ft. deep. A big corridor
car bridged the gap between the break and the bank, one
end resting on a slender hope and the other on the base-
less fabric of a dream. So much for the wreck. Next day
a navvy overbalanced off the.giddy height and smashed on
to the bottom, nearly 60ft. below. Then he got up and
wondered why he wasn’t a remains. A few days later,
the big car slid from the bridge into the gorge, and almost
the only damage it got was a broken window. As for
the construction of the bridge, it amounts to a scandal.
The big stone piers stand almost broadside on to the cur-
rent, and every log or dead animal that ambles down the
stream catches one of the piers on the chest. It vvas this
silly fault in construction that most likely caused the
accident. The steel-work of the bridge is of the flimsiest
description; there being no stays or trusses of any kind.
I’ve seen stronger angle-iron in windmill towers.
Had the upper works been properly stayed and supported,
the loss of a single pier need not have caused the collapse
of the bridge. The crime was imported from America—
why, Heaven no doubt knows. Nobody else seems to.
Pretty well every throne has a Pretender
of a sort hanging round it; and unless he happens
to pretend in Morocco or Turkey he is treated
with a good deal of deference, and has a middling
good time. Bu-Hamara, the spurious Moorish
sovereign, is stated to have borne up and hooted
back at the jeering crowd when he wobbled into
Fez in an iron cage lashed to the back of the
Smell of the Desert. It isn’t even asserted by
the cable that he grovelled when the news was
broken to him about the wooden shirt studded
with nails which the Sultan was fixing up for him
with a view to extracting some information re-
garding his bank account. Probably the thought
that one of his numerous friends might yet do the
same for M. Hafid helped to keep him cheerful
and upright under adverse circumstances. Out-
side Morocco the average Pretender leads a safe
and dignified existence, and even the press of
foreign countries pays him considerable respect.
One of the English illustrateds lately published
the portrait of a society woman with the tag:
“ , who is engaged to Don Oashsale,. Pre-
tender to the throne of Portyerhelm.” It is a
decayed little throne and its salary is mostly in
arrears, but its Pretender is recognised to the
extent that his girl’s photograph is labelled with
his unofficial rank and title.
* * -*
There was married the other Saturday
afternoon, in the Church of Christ, Campbell-
street, Sydney, a full-blooded Chow to a young
white Australian woman. The bridegroom was a
scholar in the church-class, and the bride was one
of its teachers. This is the third time that the
same thing has happened in this church—the third
time that a young white woman has been handed
over to the embraces of the yellow person ; the
third time the healthy race instincts have been
thrown into the gutter, and the hopes of breeding
a pure white race in these parts have been
smudged. If a White Australia really is this
country’s policy, what’s wrong with fixing up
something sudden in the way of six months’ gaol
or so for the parson who performs a ceremony of
this sort?
“Phil Mite”: Apparently because the
Labor fellow’s opinion is what it is, the Right
Thinking Person nine times out of ten harbors a
sneaking regard for Ah Hook and Turban Singh.
Again and again in country police-courts I have
seen magistrates reluct-
antly fine colored offend-
ers a few shillings for
offences which would
earn white sinners a
“ month’s ” hard and the
wrath of his Worship.
The average policeman
takes his cue from the
Bench. I saw an instance
of it at a Riverina show
a few days ago. Singh
came along to inspect
the fat cow and the prize
bull, but got stranded at
the booth and “had it
the too much beer.”
Then the Singh party
split itself into several
sections and started to
fight. Turbans were trail-
ing all over the place,
and the crowd got ex-
cited. The police came
up majestically, secured
several of the unwashed
rioters and—led them
gently off the ground.
They came back again
and started to trail their
turbans some more, and
the casual white Austra-
lian squirmed as he saw
Singh being again nicely
escorted to the gate and
once more set free. If
a plain white “drunk”
had done half as much
he would have been
handcuffed in about five
minutes and dragged off
with great display. Next
day he would have been
asked to plead to drunk-
enness, riotous behavior,
horrible language and
“tearin me uniform.” And Heaven only knows
what might happen to him at the hands of some
of the J’s.P. in these Cow districts.
The industrial position of the Melbourne
Metrop. Gas Co.’s suburban employees bears a
drearily close resemblance to that of the Sydney
clerks. Like the clerks, the majority of the gas-
men yearn for a Wages Board to regulate condi-
tions in their trade. As in the case of the clerks,
there are, among the gasites, a certain number of
trucklers who howl aloud that they don’t want a
Wages Board, and that their only desire in life is
to graft doggedly on at whatever screw the co.
sees fit to offer. The co.’s generosity doesn’t
appear to go many miles. Thus unpleasant
accusations are rife in gas circles concerning seven
days-a-week work; overtime without extra pay; not
to mention an alleged disproportion of boy to full-
grown labor and other items of the sort. Mean-
'vhlleT"'l!,ch is / et another point of resemblance
to the oydney cleric s position—a circular or peti-
tion repudiating all desire for a Wages Board
drifts about among the employees and cordially
invites their signatures.
“Stony”: A Fitzroy (Vic.) councillor has
mTrketf n ± mSel . £ iH f bltte r ter ™ S ;lS f t 0„ th ®
market-gardeners practice of carrying fruit and
fertiliser in the same vehicle. His bitterness
arose from a deep-rooted objection to any prevent-
ive action on the part of the council, because “we
are heaping up regulations at such a rate that it
will soon rpmiiro o 9. ro f a r ‘£ „ •
Mrln f J> re » a ra^ e A 0 P‘ f°f their
administration. Apparently there are still some
people who go through life with the idea that it
really is better to eat one’s dinner off the floor
than to waste good money on crockery-ware.
Still such cranks hardly deserve a seat in anv
council of decently elca.l people) 5
A NATURAL WOMAN.
HE: “ Very true to nature that Madam Darti.”
SHE: “ Hm-m, yes; if it's true there’s no waist in nature .”
Capt. Neitenstein, Controller of the Ma
State’s Prisons, says that N. S. Wales was the first
country in the world to adopt the whole-hog
“ Kathleen Mavourneen”—the imprisonment that
may be to-day and may be for ever. Every
country that tried it before had, he says,
a maximum and a minimum ; but N. S. Wales
just shoots them in, and makes no promise one
way or the other. In that respect, it treats them
just the same as it does the insane person
whose bee buzzes some other way. When a count
was made the other day there were 32 “ Kathleen
Mavourneens” in force, and it was quite certain
that a good many of the 32 people who owned
them ought to have been in a lunatic asylum long
ago—among them at least two sexual perverts
who have been convicted again and again of rape
or attempted rape. First cousin to the “Kath-
leen Mavourneen ” is the Ma State’s new system
under which the Court can declare a prisoner an
habitual if he or she —mostly she—has been “up”
three times inside a year for drunkenness,
plain or striped ; but 12 months is the most
for which the Court can invite the victim
inside. A few amazing records have come to
light under this system. There is one woman
of 37 who has served 240 sentences, practically all
in the last 18 years—mostly plain drunk ; only
once has she been charged with crime. Even
that record is knocked out by another lady who
has had 337 convictions, and not a crime among
them ; but she has had 46 years to do it in.
Another, only 28, has had 95 convictions; but
there is a bit more of the criminal about this one.
If the N.S.W. prison system can make anything
respectable out of this materia], it will deserve to
rank as the most ingenious manufacturer in the
Commonwealth.
Here is a cutting from a preachment by
Jordan, of Stanford University, in the
tto a m . ,
u - b - A-, where the revivalists come from
Whisky, cocaine and alcohol bring- temporary insnnity.
ar, d so does a revival of religion—one of those religion*
sinmiv» th^ r reaso " and se ff eontrol.
Hus is simply a form of drunkenness no more worthy of
respect than the drunkenness that lies in the gutter !*
A i 0 c . TT
a\ S ls Frofessor Sidis, of Harvard Uni.
' , . . on the same subject
Religious revivalism is a social bane ; it is more danger-
°!, so ? iety than drunkenness. As a so',.
‘‘ " *
SHORT SOUP.
[For The Bulletin.!
Ah Hing was charged with having sold intoxicating
liquor without a license. A revenue officer, in company
with a detective, visited his shop and called for Short
Soup. They were supplied with several bottles of ale.—
News Item.
The heathen Chinee
Is “ peculiar,” so we
Were assured long ago
By one in the know ;
In his very dark ways
He’ll employ a dark phrase
To deceive—that’s his trade—
Thus the law to evade.
But I praise him right here,
For his new name for beer—
Which he sells when he ain’t
Got a license—it’s quaint
Short Soup!
I thank you, Ah Iling ;
It’s a singular thing,
I’ve wanted to use
A fresh name for Booze
(Vulgar word !), I may say,
For many a day ;
And now when I roam—
Very late towards my home,
And the tottering street
Throws me off my feet,
And the cop asks “ Wot.’s up?"
I’ll reply : “ Had a cup
Sor’ Shoop! ”
It’s so easy to.say,
In an innocent way.
When I get to,the door
Of my mansion at four
* A.m., and then see
Wifey waiting for me.
I shall have a new wheeze
To crack—sure to please.
(If it don’t, Ah Hing may
Hear from me next day !)
She’ll sniff and guess “ Beer !”
I’ll correct her : “ Wrong, dear—
Sor’ Shoo’! ”
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.
FLEET WEEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Melb. Women’s Hospital during: the .year ended
June 30, 90 unmarried "iris under the age of 18 gave
birth to children. Nineteen of these were between the.
ages of 14 and 16. In the Carlton Refuge, during the.
months of May-June, there were 34 inmates under 20 years,-
of age, 13 were under the age of 17, and four were on Iv -
15 .—John Madden on “ The Pitfalls of Youth.”
A year ago the Yankee Fleet
Was welcomed in our bays.
We kissed the sailors in the street,
We gave them fatted calf to eat,
And pampered them with praise..
And many little damsels sweet
Returned their ardent gaze.
Yah ho 1 for warm confiding lips,.
Yah ho ! for budding charms.
With ready jests and Yankee quips
Those rapid wooers from the ships
Allayed the girls’ alarms
Who now bewail their little slips
With baby in their arms.
The lass who loved a sailor bold
Wears ashes on her head ;
The fires of yester-year are cold ;
Though only seventeen years old,
She wishes she were dead ;
But baby's worth its weight in gold,
And baby must be fed.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENCINE and PLANT «
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represente
——
Arthur Leplastrier & Co.) Circular Quay East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
a Winding Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating
Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you
Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
will find them all illustrated and priced in Cameron
machinery. Addresses:—-
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Street, BALLARAT,
and Pall Mall,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Up to the present the season is shaping very
well. There have been from fair to extra-good rains in
almost all parts, and if another little lot falls in a couple of
months, Australia should have about a record wheat
harvest, and the squatter should be also feeling good.
True, so far as the squatter is concerned, prices are not
going the right way. In S. Australia especially there has
been a heavy slump in lambs, The wool market is all
right ; but many breeders have stocked up so high that
they can’t carry the lambs as well as the ewes, and the
market has been knocked clean out. There has been a
craze lately for lamb-breeding ; but already some people
are finding that the game isn’t all that it looked. How-
ever, generally speaking, the outlook is good, and State
revenues are buoyant:—
State Revenues for August.
1908. 1909.
N. S. Wales ~ £1,010,064 £1,084,036 1nc.£73,972
Victoria .. 599,271 617,656 „ 18.355
Queensland .. 332,340 345,430 „ 13,090
Westralia .. 252,142 254,825 „ 2,683
Tasmania .. 65,161 70,777 „ 5,616
The previous month wasn’t so good ; hence the next com-
parison is less cheerful: —
State Revenues for Year so Par.
July-Aug., July-Aug.,
i9OB. 1909.
N. S. Wales .. £2,079,381 £2,047,224 Dec.£32,157
Victoria .. 1,204,502 1,244,841 Inc. 40,339
Queensland .. 739,645 705,265 Dec. 34,380
Westralia .. 413,761 408,615 Dec. 5,146
Tasmania .. 123,379 129,166 Inc. 5,787
From the Commonwealth, N. S. Wales has got £33,428
less, while Victoria has got £34,321 more than in the first
two months of the previous year. This isn’t, however,
another injustice to the Ma State. From first to last the
Commonwealth overpaid the States £6,059,088; and of
that lot N. S. Wales got £3,033,972, or more than half.
S. Australia is still too busy attending the tea-meeting to
furnish figures oftener than once in three months.
There are mostly blanks where the State ex-
penditure figures ought to be. Three States alone furnish
particulars:—
State Expenditure for Year so Far.
July-Aug., July-Aug.,
1908. 1909.
N. S. Wales .. £2,201,516 £2,036,959 Dec. £164,527
Queensland .. 513,444 508,036 Dec. 5,408
Westralia .. 489,833 492,070 Inc. 2,237
That, of course, is apart from loan expenditure ; also in
the case of N. S. Wales it is apart from expenditure out
of the Public Works Fund. Out of the latter £193,820
has been paid this year. This fund is fed by votes from
the revenue, and it also gets a fraction of the proceeds of
land sales. On loan account N. S. Wales has so far spent
£353,113 this year, as against £372,722 in the first two
months of last year. In both cases the expendi-
ture is at the rate of over two millions a year.
For some time past, instead of actually raising the money,
the State’s Loan account has been borrowing from the
accumulated surpluses (including proceeds of land sales)
of the past few years ; but as the toe of that stocking was
in sight, and as J. Bull is steadily putting up his rates, the
Treasury lately decided to offer J per cent, more to the local
Money-bags. Queensland is again rushing out loan money
—£217,669 has been spent in the two months. Presumably
some of this is old loan money which has been released
by the Q. N. Bank under the agreement fixed up by the
canny Eidston two or three years ago. No other States
furnish any loan figures whatever. They are probably
ashamed of them.
* * * *
Tooheys Ltd., of the Standard Brewery,
Sydney:—
In Reduc-
Net tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
Jan., 1903 ..£25,606 6 p.c. = £16,500 £9106 £70,083
July, 1903 .. 18,603 6 ~ „ 16,500 2103 67,980
Jan., 1904 .. 17,233 5 ~ „ 13,750 3483 64,497
July, 1904 .. 10,440 4 „ „ 11,000 65,057
Jan., 1905 .. 15,554 4 ~ „ 11,000 4554 60,503
July, 1905 .. 11,842 4 „ ~ 11,000 842 59,661
■Jan., 1906 .. 9,930 4 ~ „ 11,000 60,731
Reserve funds (£18,0.00) written off ; capital
written down from £550,000 to £400,000
(goodwill reduced to £22,500), leaving .. 16,231
July, 1906 .. 12,128 5 p.c. = 10,000 2128 14,103
Jan., 1907 .. 11,528 5 ~ „ 10,000 1528 12,575
July, 1907 .. 13,471 5 „ „ 10,000 3471 9,104
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
Jan., 1908 .. 19,964 5 „ „ 10,000 9964 860
Julv, 1908 .. 13,977 5 ~ „ 10,000 3977 4,837
Jan'., 1909 .. 18,796 5 „ ~ 40,000 5796 13,633
July, 1909 .. 17,544 5 ~ ~ 10,000 7544 21,177
The profits are shown net—that is, after a half-yearly
appropriation for wear and tear of machinery. For the
past term this was £3OOO ; for the corresponding half of
1908, £2500. Whether anything else is charged direct to
profit and loss or working account does not transpire.
Something certainly ought to be thus charged. The
greater part of the assets are lumped in one item,
“ Brewery, plant and machinery, goodwill (£22,500), roll-
ing stock, freehold and leasehold properties, £341,494.”
Leaseholds are a wasting asset, and should be steadily
written down. Presumably they are —there is no
evidence one way or the other. Still, lease-
holds were not a big item when the co. was
formed in 1902; the assets were then valued at
£477,932, of which only £14,250 was represented by
leaseholds, all leaseholds having less than 21 years to
run being given in. On the strength of that valuation,
and on the strength also of average annual profits of
£55,001 for the previous 31 years, the co. was floated with
a capital of £550,000, of which the Tooheys took 375,000
shares and £175,000 in cash. Somehow the previous
profits were never realised ; and so in 1906 the capital
was written down to £400,000, the Toohey estates sur-
rendering 50,000 shares, and all other shares being writ-
ten down from 20s. to 16s. Originally the goodwill item
had totalled £72,068 plus certain preliminary expenses.
When the revaluation took place, the total item was
written down to £22,500; and against that there
are now: Goodwill reserve, £7500; formal reserve,
£22,500; undivided profit, £13,677. Wiping good-
will out altogether, reserves of £21,177 are left.
Besides earning the dividend and the special appropria-
tions which have been made against depreciation, £37,408
has been stored up in the past 3£ years. No doubt every-
thing really depends on the valuations. City and suburban
freehold hotels in 1902 were set down at £124,300 ; and in
these latter days of special licensing courts and the
wholesale reduction of licenses, very serious things could
happen to £124,300 worth of pub property. Nor is it
certain that the reductions have reached their end. But
while this may capsize the value of the hotel premises, so
that large amounts of profit may have to be written off
to make good the shrinkages, it isn’t at all certain that
the beer-brewing profits will be much affected ; for on
the Maoriland figures it is clear that if people can’t drink
in a pub they will drink at home, supposing drink is to be
got; and while some won’t drink as much, others will
drink more. One more Toohey comparison, and then we
can turn off the tap (it isn’t worth while going back
beyond 3906 on account of the revaluation which hap-
pened then): —
July, 1906. July, 1908. July, 1909.
Liabilities, less cash £55,569 £71,133 £49,851
Brewery, hotels, etc. 322,139 338,178 341,494
Stocks.' 50,945 67,444 59,836
Book debts .. .. 100,882 105,348 105,197
Gross Profits on
Brewings, etc. .. 31,629 41,480 44,3/1
So, though there has been a slight reduction of debt,
practically all the undivided profit is being put back into
the business; and that takes some of the gilt off the im-
provement in net profits. For obviously it would be
better if the profits went on improving notwithstanding
that the undivided balances were put into public stocks
or other gilt-edged securities. As it is, the profits in-
crease, but the risks increase too.
* * ■* •
The Melbourne Steamship Co.
Dividends on Added Nominal
Capital to Ke- Re-
Profits. Actually Paid, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1902 .. 15,090 13J p.c. = 4,500 10,590 104,300
June, 1903 .. 10,501 17j „ „ 6,000 4,501 108,801
Dec., 1903 .. 7,885 8 . ~ „ 3,000 4,885 113,656
June, 1904 .. 12,881 12 ~ ~ 4,500 8,381 122,067
£47,067 Reserves written off ; £75,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1904 .. 13,374 10 p.c. = 3,750 9,624 9,624
June, 1905 .. 10,767 10 „ „ 3,750 7,017 16,641
Dec., 1905 .. 8,767 10 ~ ~ 3,750 5,017 21,658
June, 1906 ..13,674 30 „ ~11,250 2,424 24,052
Dec., 1906 .. 9,187 10 „ „ 3,750 5,437 29,519
June, 1907 ..18,202 30 „ ~11,250 6,952 36,471
Dec., 1907 .. 13,117 15 ~ „ 5,625 7,492 43,963
June, 1908 .. 15,899 20 „ ~ 7,500 8,399 52,362
Dec., 1908 .. 14,008 16 „ ~ 7,500 6,508 58,870
June, 1909 .. 13,405 14J „ „ 6,800 6,605 65,475
The original co. was an amalgamation of the shipping
businesses of H. R. Reid and Co., A. and J. Mclntyre,
and Deane and Co. The capital was £75,000, and all the
shares were cut up among the vendors. Later on—in
1904—the properties having been put in at a low valua-
tion, and the co. having had a good deal of luck, the
£75,000 of reserves were capitalised in a nominally-new
co., making the total capital £150,000. Then, 12 months
ago, £20,000 more was raised by the issue of 2000 shares
at par. On the whole £170,000 the present div. is at the
rate of 8 per cent. ; on the old shares their part
of the div. is equal to 16 per cent. The pro-
fits and reserves stated above are open to much
suspicion. Steamships, freeholds, works, etc., are taken
in at cost; and that means cost to the new co. Of the
present total of £226,840, this co. in 1904 took over
£127,118 from the old co. Those assets, after five years’
humping, are not likely to be worth £127,118 now.
Against the assets “at cost” the co. has a depreciation
reserve of £38,550, £5OOO having been added during the
past six months. That £5OOO is equal to a shade under 4£
percent, per annum ; and if that is a fair thing—and it is-
probably more than enough, seeing that the total in-
cludes freeholds—then the actual net profit last half-year
was £8405. The co. has gone ahead rapidly. As shown
just now, steamships, freeholds, works, etc., have moved
along from £127,118 at the end of 1904 to £226,840 now,
part of the increase being provided out of the new capital.
But this shows the movements better: —
Dec.,’o4. Dec.,’oB. June,’o9.
Liabilities £12,796 £34,922 £32,160
Steamers, freeholds, plant,
etc 127,118 225,815 226,840
Stores 8,881 14,596 17,532
Book debts 9,267 27,917 20,846
Liquid assets .. .. 30,904 3,364 9,592
Even though a fair amount of the £226,840 may have to
be written off for wear and tear, still the figures show a
very large increase in earning power. And so long as the
inter-State shipping cos. keep their hands off one
another’s throats, as they have been doing since
they fixed up the agreement a few years ago,
there seems to be a good time still ahead of
them ; for Federation brought inter-State freetrade, and
brought it for keeps. And nobody benefited by it more
than the shipping cos. Certainly this co. doesn’t work
under the shipping agreement; but it doesn’t work
against it, and the fact that it isn’t formally a member
seems to make no difference.
* * * *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne) : .
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Jan., 1903.. £3214 5 p.c. = £2500 £147 £567 £3,408
July, 1903.. 2584 6 „ „ 2500 84 3,492:
Jan., 1904.. 2604 5 „ „ 2500 104 3,596:
Aug., 1904.. 2513 £4/5/6,, „ 2500 300 3,309
Feb., 1905.. 245 2£ „ ~ 1250 2,304
Aug., 1905.. 1639 3£ „ „ 1666 2,277
Jan., 1906.. 2736 6 „ ~ 2500 236 2,513
July, 1906.. 3577 5 „ „ 2500 1077 3,590
Jan., 1907.. 3956 5 „ ~ 2500 1456 5,046
July, 1907.. 4542 5 „ „ 2500 2042 7,088
Jan., 1908.. 4826 5 „ ~ 2500 2326 9,414
July, 1908.. 5547 £5/16/8,, „ 2917 2630 12,044
Jan., 1909.. 4890 5/16/8,, „ 2917 1973 14,017
July, 1909.. 5728 5/16/8,, „ 2917 1400 1411 16,428
Just before the foregoing list opens the co. had over-
hauled its affairs, and found it necessary to write
£12,500 off capital, and £5200 off reserves. Up to that
time the capital had been £112,500; but as £62,500 had
been provided by the sale of some of the co.’s land during
the boom, the writing-down in 1902 wasn’t so distressing
as it might have been. When the capital was “ watered ”
the balance of the land was valued on the boom basis ;
and that is really the chief of the co.’s troubles—the tre-
mendous load of capital and debt represented by land
and premises. Down to 1902 the Flinders-street land was
valued in the books at £48,000, and the store premises at
£53,976, their cost. A trifle was written off these amounts ;
but the real estate item still stands as high at £103,625,
and that is apart from furniture and fittings. This is
equivalent to an excessive rent-charge on the business
of, say, £5500 a year. The capital in the land and
premises is greater than the co.’s own capital ; therefore
all the other capital necessary—in the shape of stock,
book-debts, etc.—has to be represented either by reserves
or liabilities. As reserves have grown, it has been possible
to pay off some of the debt. This shows the movement:
July, July, Jan., July,
1902. 1908. 1909. 1909.
Mortgage debt .. £69,500 £64,500 £63,500 £62,500
Other debts.. .. 15,761 20,226 22,478 22,677
Freehold, plant, etc. 110,000 113,990 115,953 115,803
Stock 59,736 60,330 63,121 64,029
Book debts .. .. 20,616 25,442 23,838 25,090
But, though the reserves grow, the liabilities can’t be
reduced at quite the same rate, because the business calls
for more capital in other ways—in stock, for instance,
and in financing customers. Still some progress is being
made, and everj' step forward, by reducing the interest
bill, makes it easier to take another step. Just at present
the co. is adding to its premises ; and very wisely, in view
of the high figure at which property already stands, a
start has been made to pay for it out of profits : £l4OO is
thus written off this half-year, and there will remain
about the same amount to be dealt with later on. In the
last few years the profits have picked up wonderfully,
assuming that the stock valuations have been made on
the same basis. (Apparent profits can be inflated, of
course, by over-valuing stock ; and as to that one has to
trust the management entirely.) The margin of profit in
excess of the dividend is now wide, and it was wider in
the past term than for any term of which this paper has
a record ; and that is over 15 years.
The Wellington Woollen Manufacturing
Co. (M.L.): —
Written To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901 j.. £8,791 8 p.c. =£4281 £2500 £2OlO £19,301
1902.. 10,773 8 „ ~ 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premiums on new shares .. .. 1413 23,850
1903.. 9,065 8 p.c. = 5604 2500 961 24,811
1904.. 9,130 8 „ „ 6273 1000 1857 26,668
1905 .. 3,950 6 „ „ 4800 2000 23,818
1906 .. 5,200 5 „ „ 4000 1000 200 . 24,018
1907 .. 6,708 6 ~ ~ 4858 1500 350 24,368
1908 .. 11,190 6 „ „ 5353 2000 3837 28,205
1909.. 6,404 6 „ „ 6114 3127 25,368
Fire years ago there were 20,000 ordinary shares in this
co. paid to £4. In January, 1907, more capital being re-
quired, a preference issue was decided upon; 20,000
shares were authorised, but so far only 12,915 have been
issued, and are paid at present to £2 ss. The ordinaries
are liable for £l, and the prefs. for £2 15s. each ; and
against this liability £7456 has been lodged on deposit.
In 1907-8, apparently on account of the temporary slump
in wool, profits were unusually good ; but during the
past year higher prices for materials and the generally
distressed condition of Maoriland make things look very
sick again. In fact, they are probably sicker than the fore-
going table shows, because of the amount written off £2OOO
came off merchandise stock, and that might very well have
been chopped off profits at once. It simply means that,
on revaluation, profits are found to be £2OOO less than they
have hitherto been reckoned. However, the item goes in
among the amounts written off because it was probably
in previous years that the over-valuation of stocks, and
therefore of profits, was made. Another £127, “ Pref.
share flotation expenses,” is shown as written off. This
only leaves £lOOO provided to cover the year’s wear and
tear of plant, etc., which is probably insufficient. Still,
assuming that it is sufficient, there was a net profit of
only £3277 ; and yet the co. pays a dividend of 6 percent,
all round, ealling'for £6114. If the co. wants to get into
difficulties it seems to be going the right way about it.
One thing in its favor is that by getting in the new
capital and by reducing stocks it has been able to ease off
its liabilities a little ; but they are still substantial: —
1904 .. £35,795 I 1907 .. £70.602
1905 .. 42,862 1908 .. 67,359
1906 .. 63,724 1 1909 .. 42,516
Maoriland’s imports of woollens and stuff that masque-
rades as woollens are still heavy, which suggests that the
Dominion hasn’t yet hit the foreign shoddy manufacturer
hard enough. In 1898 woollen piece-goods valued at
£266,516 were imported; last year the total was
£318,669 ; and in 10 years the total for apparel—
which doesn’t include drapery, linens and haber-
dashery—has sprung from £506,620 to £972,775.
If they had the market to themselves, the Maoriland
woollen cos. might still do fairly well even during the
period of hard and imperative economy which is certainly
ahead of the country ; but the 20 per cent, duty clearly
isn’t enough to secure the market in view of the good labor
conditions which Maoriland insists on in its own factories,
but which it unfortunately can’t insist on in the other
fellows’ factories.
» * * *
Sands and Macdougall, Ltd. (Melbourne),
printers, paper manufacturers, etc. :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902 £9OOO £14,121
1903.. £11,559 5 p.c. =£5561 5000 £998 15,119
1904 .. 12,321 5 „ „ 5561 1916 4,844 19,963
1905 .. 17,592 5 „ „ 5561 3353 8,678 28,641
1906 .. 16,245 5„ „ 5561 3000 7,684 36,325
1907.. 18,868 5 „,, 5561 3250 10,057 46,382
1908 .. 22,892 5 ~ ~ 5561 3800 13,531 59,913
£7971 written off on revaluation ~ 51,942
1909.. 17,217 5 p.c. = 5561 4041 7,615 59,557
Of these reserves £2015 is a provision for the interest pre-
sently payable on debentures, and would probably be
just as well out of the way. The other reserves are—For-
mal reserves, £45,000 ; dividend equalisation, £5OOO ; de-
benture redemption, £4000; and undivided profit, £3542.
TwelvO months ago it was casually remarked here that
profits, of course, depended on the valuation of stock,
etc. ; if the valuations were over the mark, then the
profits had been over-stated. During the year—probably
in consequence of the death of Mr. Jas. Macdougall, for
many years the co.’s managing director —a re-valuation
was made ; and besides the £4041 written off out of the
current year’s gross profits, it is found necessary to write
off £7971 of previous profits. This is a thing that is always
liable to happen in connection with a business carrying
heavy stock-in-trade and plant. The co.’s paid capital is
£111,225 in 8898 shares of £l2 10s. each, and liable for
another £l2 10s. There is £50,000 owing on debentures,
which have a mortgage on the uncalled capital; and other
debts and sundry movements are shown hereunder :
1902. 1905. 1908. 1909.
Debentures .. £50,000 £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Other liabilities.. 66,304 54,305 71,020 57,827
Stock .. ... 91,356 88,480 129,694 117,874
Plant and fixtures 51,217 50,260 61,685 52,462
Freeholds, etc. .. 59,294 58,500 68,172 79,092
Book debts, etc... 60,065 49,711 35,388 31,961
From the first table it will be seen that, after the various
writings-off, £45,436 has been added to the reserves during
the past seven years, while in the same period the
dividends have absorbed only £38,927 ; that is
to say, the net profits (assuming that the valua-
tions are all right) have been more than enough to
pay 10 per cent., though only 5 per cent, has actually
been paid. Very little of the surplus profit has, however,
been available for paying off liability ; practically all of
it has gone into more plant and stock. This, of course,
is adding eggs to those which the shareholders have in
the basket already ; and that’s all right, no doubt, pro-
vided they hatch out more chickens than would other-
wise be produced. But if it takes the extra money to
produce the old profits, then the shareholders are
not much better off for having nominally earned
the extra money. What the future of this or any
other industrial business is going to be it would take a
very old-established prophet to tell ; so much depends on
the personal equation, and that is always changing. One
thing in favor of this co. is that there is no goodwill item
whatever in its books, so all the capital is represented by
things that you can feel if you run against them in the
dark.
» • » •
The Adelaide Steam Tug Co. (S. Aus.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1906.. £4040 12 7-8 p.c. = £3600 £440 £9,258
Dec., 1906.. 3931 10 „ „ 2800 1131 10,389
June, 1907.. 6196 12 7-8 „ ~ 3600 2596 12,985
Dec., 1907.. 5912 12 7-8 ~ ~ 3600 2312 15,297
June, 1908.. 5971 20 ~ „ 5600 371 15,668
Dec., 1908.. 5407 10 ~ ~ 2800 2607 18,275
June, 1909.. 1420 5 ~ „ 1400 20 18,295
It appears to be 10 years since so small a dividend was
paid; after that there were several_B per cents. The
official reports furnish no explanation of the slump.
Twelve months ago it was, however, mentioned here that
Adelaide’s Outer Harbor would cut into profits ; and
the Broken Hill labor trouble has also no doubt upset
things. Even in the past unfavorable six months the co.
has written its fleet down out of profits to the extent of
£lls3—prettv good proof of conservative management.
The capital is £56,000 in 16,000 shares fully paid to 70s. ;
and on June 30 it had a surplus of liquid assets (excluding
stock) of £19,853, as against £7251 only three years ago.
If there is a poor time ahead, the co. is at any rate in a
comfortable position now tp face it.
The Economic Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne): —
Divi- Nomi-
Business Loss on Total dend nal Re-
June, Profit. Property. Loss. (4 p.c.) serves.
1900 .. £79 £956 £877 £lO2O
Deficit.
1901 .. 335 2184 1849 829
1902 .. 1045 2020 975 1804
1903 .. 833 1248 415 2219
Profit.
1904 .. 1007 163 844 1375
Reserves.
Capital written down from £42,640 to
£17,056 ; £3508 being applied to Reserves .. 2133
1905 .. 1030 1030 £682 2481
Profit.
1906 .. 1085 241 1326 652 3125
1907 .. 1133 346 1479 682 3922
(4J p.c.)
1908 .. 1023 236 1259 767 4414
(5 p.c.)
1909 .. 1163 637 1800 853 5361
Ik 1904 the old £5 shares were surrendered, and two £1
shares were given instead of them. The £3 per share
thus written off capital allowed of such a severe writing-
down of foreclosed properties—from £42,128 to £26,500 —
that sales which have been made since then have shown a
profit ; or, more strictly speaking, the losses haven’t
been as big: ns the writing-down bad provided for. This
shows the progress since the spring-cleaning :
1905. 1908. 1909-
Liabilities.. .. £5,823 £3,096 £4,278
Advances .. .. 5,402 8,978 12,954
Properties.. .. 19,995 15,864 13,513
Other assets .. 645 590 1,081
The advances are still small, but they are increasing, so
there is a very fair chance that it will be worth while
keeping the society going. Three or four years ago tne
figures were so small that it seemed very doubtful
whether it would be worth while. To secure economy,
and give the best possible results to borrowers, depositors
and shareholders, the amalgamation of two or for 6 ® °!
these much-reduced societies is called for. A good deal
has been done in that way already ; but there is still
room for more of the same kind of thing.
* * * *
The Wellington Investment, Trustee and
Agency Co. (M.L.),, , . „
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. s ®® ve ®-
1899.. £2909 9 per cent. =£2115 £794
Premiums on new shares 3750 13.0»i
1900.. 3444 9 per cent. = 2469 975 14,506
1901.. 3344 9 „ „ 2475 869 15,4.5
1902.. 3585 10 ~ ~ 2750 835 16,260
1903.. 4061 10 „ „ 2750 1311 17,»/1
1904.. 4116 10 ~ ~ 2750 1366 18,937
( £19,250 of Reserves Capitalised I 435
1900.. < 3510 xO per cent. = 2762 t
1906.. 4708 6 „ „ 2989 1719 2,154
1907 . 4779 6 ~ ~ 3000 1779 3,933
1908:: 4917 6 „ » 3000 1917 5,850
1909.. 4312 6 „ ~ 3000 1312 7,162
The capital of this co. is £50,000, in 100,000 shares paid to
10s., and liable for another 10s. For some years the
capital was £27,500 ; then a trifle more was got in and
£19,250 of the reserves was capitalised. On the amount
actually paid, the present div. is therefore equal to over
9 per cent. The co. trades largely on borrowed money.
Even now, though it has been reducing its advances and
paying off some of its own borrowings, its debts equal
very nearly £3 for every £1 of its own capital and reserves.
Its advances and properties total £209,845 ; so for every
£1 of its own it has £3 13s. 6d. out in these shrinkable
classes of security. So long as the depositors don’t want
their money—in other words, so long as the co. can nurse
the securities—everything may be all right; but if it
became necessary for the co. to get in money rapidly,
heavy losses would probably be made ; and those losses
would have to be borne by the shareholders. In good
times the shareholders have all the best of it. They get
9 per cent, while the depositor gets only from 3£ to 4$
per cent. But when the bad time comes, then the de-
positor scores, for he holds a first mortgage not only over
the profits but over the shareholders’ capital as well. In
this case the position is that the co. on June 30 owed
(apart from investors’ subscriptions) £166,217 ; its liquid
assets (including public debentures) totalled £16,360. To
represent the balance —£149,857 —there were £209,846 of
advances and properties ; which means that all these
shrinkable assets could shrink on an average about ss. lOd.
in the £ below their present book values before the de-
positors’money would be in danger. And then there is
the £50,000 of capital still uncalled; so that it would
have to be a very shocking slump—amounting to just
about 10s. in the £—before depositors would have to get
out their sackcloth and seek the ash barrel. As for
shareholders in M.L. mortgage cos.—well, it all depends
on what sort of management their affairs have had.
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1902 .. £1524 5 p.c. =£lll7 £324 £B3 £2669
June, 1903 .. 1525 5„ 1 „ 1117 407 1 2670
Dec., 1903.. 1769 5 „ „ 1117 242 410 3080
June, 1904.. 1831 6 „ ~ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904 .. 2097 6,, ~ 1340 352 405 3633
June, 1905.. 2172' 6 „ ~ 1340 275 557 4190
Dee., 1905 .. 2428 6,, ~ 1340 269 819 6009
June, 1906.. 2285 6,, „ 1340 386 559 6568
Dec., 1906.. 2328 6 „ ~ 1340 439 549 6117
June, 1907.. 2183 6,, ~ 1340 408 435 6552
Dec., 1907 .. 2072 6,, ~ 1377 455 240 6792
June, 1908.. 1924 6,, „ 1490 810 6416
Dec., 1908 .. 1962 6 „ ~ 1490 807 6081
June, 1909 .. 2465 6,, ~ 1490 968 7 6088
The profits are shown gross ; the reserves include depre-
ciation fund, £3578 ; and the amounts shown as written
off have been actually spent on renewals. The profits
shown above, even after deducting the amounts written
off, are therefore probably a little more than the real
thing, because in spite of renewals there is no doubt some
general depreciation which ought to be charged against
current revenue. However, the position is by no means
unsatisfactory, and the turnover has increased largely
during the past few years. A comparison:—
Invested in Gross
Capital. Plant, etc. Revenue.
June, 1904.. £44,667 £46,604 £3916
June, 1909 .. 49,665 57,496 6637
As at June, 1904, the surplus of liquid assets (including
stocks) over liabilities was £2598 ; but the excess of lia-
bilities on June 30, 1909, was £3ll. The change is due 10
the considerable expenditure on plant, etc.; but as the
latter is now yielding 23 per cent, per annum gross, as
against 17 per cent, per annum five years ago, the money
appears to have been very well spent.
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania): —
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves
Dec., 1902.. £llll 4 p.c. =£loso £6l £5829
June, 1903.. 1328 4 „ „ 1050 278 6107
Dec., 1903.. 1584 4„ „ 1050 534 6641
June, 1904.. 1403 4„ „ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904.. 1655 4,, ~ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905.. 1315 4,, ~ 1050 £5OO 7364
Dec., 1905.. 1147 4„ ~ 1050 97 7461
June, 1906.. 1134 4,, ~ 1050 84 7545
Dec., 1906.. 1550 4„ „ 1050 500 8045
June, 1907.. 1143 4,, ~ 1050 309 7829
Dec., 1907.. 1743 4„ „ 1050 800 7722
June, 1908.. 1590 4 „ ~ 1050 200 8062
Dec., 1908.. 1561 4,, ~ 1050 250 261 8323
June, 1909.. 1669 4 „ „ 1050 200 419 8742
This co. paid its last 6 per cent. div. in 1895 ; and from
that point there was a gradual fall to the 4 per cent, of
the above list. Keen competition of cheaply-generated
electricity in the hands of the Municipal Council, which
doesn’t worry after profits, is one cause of the trouble.
Another cause is a load of debentures, at present
amounting to £35,253 ; apparently these carry 5 per-
cent., though it isn’t clear from the accounts ; and the
eo. has an overdraft of 1.2750 on top of that. The outlook
is by no means brilliant, especially as it is doubtful
whether any too much has hitherto been written off for
depreciation—that is to say, to pay for renewals. In six
years the financial movement has been :
1903. 1909.
Liabilities .. ..£38,294 £38,892
Liquid assets .. .. 435 411
Excess liabilities ..£37,859 £38,481
It is progress the wrong way, like so many more of this
co.’s movements.
-* * * *
The Charters Towers Gas Co. (Q.): —
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Apl. ,’O3 .. £956 10 p.c. = £lO5O £2287
Oct ’O3 . 1437 10 „ „ 1050 £lOO £287 2574
Apl ’O4 .. 968 10 „., 1050 93 2399
Oct ,’O4 .. 1375 10 „,, 1050 100 225 2624
Ap1.,’05 .. 985 10 „ „ 1050 2559
Oct. ’O5 .. 1438 10 ~ ~ 1050 100 288 2847
Apl., ’O6 .. 603 10 ~ „ 1050 2400
Oct ’O6 .. 1345 10 „ „ 1050 100 195 2595
Apl ’O7 .. 999 10 ~ ~ 1050 2544
Oct" ’O7 1039 10 „ „ 1050 125 - 2408
Apl" ’OB .. 930 10 „ „ 1050 - - 2288
Oct. ’OB .. 1208 10 ~ ~ 1050 200 2246
Apl.’ ’O9 ..767 8„ ~ 840 . 2173
The directors left the matter of a dividend “to the
discretion of shareholders in general meeting,” which


For •Security
Stability’
Economy’
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
stands alone.
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents.
2, 4» O Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser g palmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Offices—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating’ mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive teRts emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in 'steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
• • • »
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
* •* * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * •
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions of
this furnace are as follows—168in. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom—thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne.* [2
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement ”
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney.* [3
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal,
London, of 23/9/’08, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society Limited:—“There is this good
reason why those who contemplate assurance should con-
sider the advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz :
that its policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehen-
sive as those of other such institutions, as witness the
“ Twelve Option” contract lately placed on the market.”*
• • * *
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Qoeen Street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * •
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * •* *
The continued economical success of the up-to-
date steam plant installed by the Brisbane Milling Co.,
Brisbane, consisting of a 300-horse-power Compound Jet
Condensing Robey Engine, with a Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boiler fitted with Chain Grate Stoker and
Superheater, is a source of much gratification to the
owners ; the coal consumed, which is common slack, being
less than ljlb. per horse-power per hour. We believe
that these actual results establish a record for economy
and reliability that cannot be equalled by any other
system of power.*
-* # * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteOo., Ltd., 74 Oastlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st, Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors' Guide.*
* * ■* #
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbrrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * « •
Alf. Herbert Ltd,, of Coventry, who have
brought their Machine Tools to a very high state of per-
fection, have recently introduced some notable improve-
ments into their Hexagon Turret Lathe. In adapting it
for modern cutting tools of high speed steel, provision
has been made for greater power, more speeds, and better
facilities for changing speed and feed. High-speed steel
cutters are supplied with every lathe, and the speed
tables are calculated for high-speed tools. Gibson,
Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William
Street, Melbourne, will send catalogue describing this
machine to anyone interested.*
DIERCKS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd.
493 Collins Street. MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOE
Germania Refrigerating &. Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing’ Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne ;
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Eleotrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [4
generally means leaving it to their indiscretion. The
amount written off to cover depreciation has for years
past been wretchedly small ; and, if the co. were struck
with anything extensive in the way of necessary renewals,
it would be in a bad way. In six years the position has
changed like this :
1903. 1909.
Liquid assets and stock £4216 £3085
Liabilities .. .. .. 281 491
Surplus .. .. £3935 £2594
It looks very much as if the co. has been living beyond its
means.
* * * *■
The Broken Hill South Blocks, formerly part
of the South, were taken over by a Melbourne co. in
1900 ; but by 1905 the concern had got into very low
water. The Lake View Consols then put £50,000 into the
co., which was reconstructed, the management being
handed over to 8., M. and Co. With plenty of capital
behind it, this firm set to work to develop the mine and
provide it with the most compact plant at Broken Hill.
The capital expenditure has been very heavy, but as the
following shows, a great deal of the money has been
provided by the mine itself (the first period covers 17
months): —
Written
March, Profit. Divs. off. Reserves.
1907 .. £8,033 Nil £3,487 £4,546
1908 .. 29,566 Nil 29,234 4,878
1909 .. 26,031 Nil 18,900 12,009
So £51,621 has been written off, of which £36,192 is the
amount spent during the past two years in equipment;
the balance is money spent on development. The original
“property” item was £152,445. A further £99,175 has
been spent, including £36,176 on milling plant, and
£10,571 on main shaft equipment; but all this has been
written down to £47,554 out of profits. It is plain,
therefore, that, as the capital expenditure has now practi-
cally stopped, the past results are no guide to the future ;
for the nearly £40,000 which has gone into plant alone in
the past two years will not have to be spent again.
The South Blocks’ financial position was like
this at the end of March, 1908 and 1909 respectively :
1908. 1909.
Liabilities .. ..£10,159 .. £23,521
Liquid assets.. .. 9,712 .. 33,071
Deficit .. .. £447 Surplus .. £9,550
That is very good progress considering that during the
period £10,502 had to be paid on account of milling plant
alone. The output has been gradually brought up during
the year from 7006 tons in April to 10,140 tons in June.
Taking April, May and June these results were got, esti-
mating lead at £l3, and silver at 2s. Ore handled,
28,004 tons ; net value of output, £27,855; total cost
(including development), £21,764; total profit, £6091.
London office expenses, royalty, etc., may be taken at
£650, reducing the profit to £5441 ; and that would
amount to 3s. lOd. per ton. On March 31 the ore reserves
were 421,090 tons =at 3s. lOd. per ton, £80,709. Add sur-
plus of liquid assets, £9550, and we get a total value of
£90,259. There are 200,000 shares, quoted at 335. =
£330,000. So we get this
Market value of mine £330,000
Less value of ore reserves and liquid assets 90,259
Balance to represent future developments in
mine and metal markets .. .. ~ £239,741
The future development may be very extensive ; for no
work had been done away from the shaft below 526 ft.
Yet clearly the market at present prices has discounted
the future very heavily. Chairman Govett, at the
meeting in London, worked out the profits at £2200 a
month, equal to 13 per cent, per annum. On the fore-
going, based on three months’ actual results, the profits
would be £lBl4 per month. But taking Govett’s figures,
the weak point is that the reserves would only keep the
mill going for (say) 3f years. To make the mine worth
what it stands at in the market, the ore reserves would
have to be increased from 421,000 tons to 1,669,000 tons.
No doubt the situation may be improved (1) by the co.
being able to turn the zinc tailings to account;
by improvements in the metal market; (3) by further
economies, in metal saving, etc. But it is as well to
remember that the metal markets may fall as well as rise.
These estimates are made on the basis' of lead at £l3, and
as a matter of fact lead is even now worth only £12125. 6d.
* * * *
After weary years of sinking, the Broken Hill
South Extended has struck what appears to be a lode at
a depth of about BQoft. The old shafts put down on the
property never happened on anything big enough to raise
the wind, and if the present manager hadn’t been blessed
with a remarkably complacent and affluent Board of
directors in London he would probably have been called
back long ago. At the same time it must be remembered
that the shaft in which the lode has been cut is very
small, and so far no true idea of what the ore body is
really like can be got. There was certainly no justifica-
tion whatever for the boom which took place in the
shares. At 4s. a share the show was given a value of
£135,000, for there are no less than 675,007 shares in the co.
» * * *
In consequence of the flattering but quite in-
conclusive tale told by the find in the South Extended,
Broken Hill, the dry bones of all the old mining shows in
the vicinity are doing another rattle. The mining in-
vestor who knows anything about Broken Hill conditions
isn’t likely to be easily charmed by the sound, because he
will reason that where the workable lodes are situated
1000 ft. or more from the surface, the cost of mining is
likely to be proportionately high ; further, Broken Hill
ores, in almost every case, become more and more re-
fractory the deeper you go. So it generally happens that
the exploiting of these shows is left to men who take the
bait, but know how to swear off the hook.
* * * *
The new De Bavay co. to get out zinc from the
Broken Hill tailings is to be called the Amalgamated Zinc
(De Bavay’s) Ltd., and its 500,000 shares are to be cut up
this way:—
Shareholders in present co. 247,500
Underwritten at par by the Baillieus .. .. 122,500
W. L. Baillieu for guaranteeing overdraft, etc. 7,500
Held in reserve 122,500
Total .. .. 500,000
The £122,500 now to be put up will go in paying for the
new plant at the South Broken Hill and in paying for tail-
ings. The shareholders will get 2f shares for each share
in the old co.
An inspection of the .True Blue, Wyalong
(N.S.W.), has been made on behalf of the Harden G. M.
Co., with a view to purchase. The mine has a very good
surface equipment; but some money needs to be put
into it to pay off liabilities and develop more milling ore.
According to men who ought to know. Great
Cobar (N.S.W.) is going to steadily rush along its output
somehow or anyhow. Latest monthly return is 540 tons
copper, containing 14780 z. gold and 8650 z. silver. Aver-
age gold value was about £ll per ton of copper; but
unless the proportion of purchased ore, the total tonnage,
and the working costs are given, the return conveys
mighty little real information. Latterly the big mine
has been a steady buyer of copper ore and concentrates,
and as there are numerous outside shows with picked ore
for sale, a considerable customs business may be ex-
pected. Under these circumstances, the supercilious
neglect of details in the returns is to be regretted. And
while it continues the public had better be careful.
* * * *
Harden (N.S.W.) —the most consistent gold
mine which the Ma State owns :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Dec., 1905.. £468 Nil £468
June, 1906 .. 4,589 Nil £327 4,730
Dec., 1906.. 6,028 £2500 545 7,713
June, 1907.. 10,263 7500 562 9,914
Dec., 1907.. 10,413 7500 829 11,998
June, 1908.. 7,367 5000 797 13,568
Dec., 1908.. 14,322 7500 860 19,530
June, 1909.. 9,909 7500 1023 20,916
Mining cos. reserves are a doubtful quantity, as a rule ;
they consist most often of machinery and of money spent
on making holes; and sometimes the holes are of value
and sometimes they are not. In this case, the position
had better be stated this way :
Dec.,’o6. Dec.,’oB. June,’o9.
Liabilities .. Nil Nil Nil
Liquid assets .. £lOOl £5494 £2640
Stores and fuel (£1335) are not included with the assets.
So, though in 2£ years the reserves have nominally in-
creased from £7713 to £20,916, the surplus of liquid assets
has only gone up from £lOOl to £2640. All the rest has
gone into machinery or holes. The ore reserves “ capable
of measurement" amounted on June 30 to 7000 tons,
worth 535. 9d. per ton—very little, considering that during
the half-year 5896 tons, worth 84s. Bd. per ton, were
milled. Six months ago the figures were 7582 tons, worth
775. On actual figures the position is not at all good ;
but, according to the manager, “the outlook below No. 4
level is very promising, and as No. 5 level is driven it is
believed that ample reserves will be developed.” Anyhow,
the co. is risking it, and is putting in a new crushing
plant. People who handle these shares ought, however,
to realise that not more than about one-eighth of the
market value of the mine is in sight—the oth r seven-
eighths is mostly faith; and, in mining, faith can be
carried much too far.
* * * *
Horton and Freeman made a mistake over
Lobb’s Hole (N.S. W.), and as they admit their “ consider-
able responsibility,” they are ladling money out of their
own pockets so that the mine and the shareholders may
have a run. Up to the end of June they had advanced
£4520, and after two calls lately authorised have been
got in they have undertaken to finance the show till the
end of the year. It is pretty certain that it never ought
to have been passed on to a big co. (the paid capital is
£48,000). The very narrow vein of rich ore paid the
former private owners splendidly, and would have paid
them still better if the business management had been
up-to-date; but that is about the full strength of
the claim’s possibilities. Horton and Freeman provided
for treatment on the mine ; and,'especially now that the
bottom level has gone back on them, there isn’t the ore
to keep even a small furnace going. Things may improve
again ; but it looks like a fossicker’s mine. Last half-
year’s actual expenditure, including development, was
£3875; and the revenue from sales of matte was £1716,
partly from ore previously mined.
Great Boulder (W:A.) has won a ringing cheer
in the West by getting a good bore-hole development at
2600 ft., or 100 ft. below the present bottom level. About
18ft. of lodestuff was pierced by the drill, and 3ft. of it
assayed lloz. per ton. The remainder of the core, how-
ever, only went sdwt. Coming on top of good finds at
2000 ft. in the Horseshoe and 1970 ft. in the Ivanhoe, this
discovery has made Kalgoorlie feel very good. But the
line of ore-bearing country which has furnished these
developments is by far the most persistent on the field,
and, though it is likely to go down as far as it is possible
to work it, it cannot he argued from that fact that shoots
in other lines of ore-bearing country will do the same.
They may, or they may not.
Golden Links, Ltd. (W. A.), has been induced
by the Adelaide and Melbourne Exchanges to accept the
final call of Is. on shares held in Australia, making them
fully paid. Seeing, however, that the scrip on the
London register is only dealt in as carrying the liability,
and as settlements have been obtained on this basis, the
London Board advises that paid-up Australian shares will
not be regarded as “satisfactory delivery” on the
London Exchange. But what the law has to say about
this boycott is another matter. It certainly seems
absurd to say that paid-up shares are not good enough to
be accepted as good delivery. There was a Tasmanian
case which hung on t. is point some time ago. A little
crowd engineered a corner in certain contributing
shares, and when the spec.-sellers went to buy-in in order
to deliver the goods, they couldn’t find any contributing
scrip anywhere. Several of them anted-up whatever the
corner-men demanded ; but one man bought paid-up
scrip and tendered it. Of course, the corner crowd said
that that wasn’t any good to them. “ All right! ” said
the operator ; “ then sue me.” They did ; and the Court
held that the tender was quite good.
Golden Links has lately been doing some
further experimenting with the drill below 500 ft. Two
separate ore channels were passed through in 177 ft. of
boring; but beyond a few feet of payable stuff and a
high assay here and there, nothing very cheering was
met. Still on one borehole a co. cannot tell how much
gold is ahead of the pick any more than on one look a
man can tell how many stars are overhead. The mine
has good prospects in depth, and but for the delay in
erecting a mill shares would be standing at a better price
than they are.
» » » *
In order to boost along the production of pyritic
ores and their subsequent treatment at certain proposed
phosphatic manure works, the Moore Government (W.A.)
has decided to charge a specially low rate for the railage
of this class of stuff to the coast. This concession, it is
reckoned, will encourage the development of several well-
known low-grade pyritous copper lodes in the State, and
prevent the importation of such ore from other parts of
the Commonwealth.
* * * *
Wiluna (W.A.) is now being riddled with bore
holes. The first stab proved (as far as a bore can) that
the Gwalia Consolidated shoot maintains its width and
value down to 500 ft., and a second one is alleged to have
corroborated this. Other work has been promised the
drill-owner; and when the last mail left this distant
settlement, everybody was talking to everybody else
about the efficacy of bore-hole prospecting, and prepara-
tions were being made for a general and glorious drunk.
As regards the Gwalia Consolidated, a reliable man on the
spot writes to say that the property can stand the erection
of a big plant; but funds are short, and the Board won’t
hustle, anyway.
» * * *
Opinions differ widely as to the merits of
Meekatharra (W.A.). The other day the local paper
billed it as a second Kalgoorlie on the word of some
visitor ; and now one of the out-of-works, who were
attracted there by this dazzling assertion, wants to know
whether the recent visitor had an axe of his own to grind
or was paid to grind someone else’s. This particular
unfortunate alleges that there is not one defined body of
quartz or lodestuff in the whole district, and he declares
with much vehemence that Meekatharra hasn’t a ghost of
a show of ever being even a pocket addition of Kalgoorlie.
In fact, in his opinion, the reefs and lodes in the handful
of shows working there can only be trusted as far as they
can be seen.
* • • *
Hampton Plains Estate (W.A.) is again on the
cadge. The annual report submitted on July 19 shows
that the cash raised by reconstruction in 1906 has
vanished, and the directors now want more. The chief
asset is the Lady Miller, on which £lO,OOO has been spent;
and though it has, confessedly, not realised expectations,
it is now proposed to float the show as a separate under-
taking. Evidently the authors of the report think that
the hook must have more bait, so they proceed to recom-
mend the purchase of 3825 acres of gold-bearing country
in Uruguay. About £600,000, it is alleged, has been
spent on this property by French concerns;
and although no dividends have been paid, hundreds of
thousands of pounds are said to be going to waste for the
want of suitable treatment appliances. To buy a sub-
stantial interest in this dazzling venture and give the
holders of the £95,420 worth of debentures something on
account, shareholders are asked to fork out another 3s. 6d.
per share. But, in view of the oo.’s past history, share-
holders ought first to insist on having the statements and
promises supported by some independent authorities.
* * * «
Mararoa, the Norseman (W.A.) property which
Rutter Clarke resurrected in 1906, has had a very satis-
factory record seeing that only £15,000 has been put into
it altogether :
Written
Loss. Divs. and Tax. Off. Deficit.
Dec., 'O6 .. £2,709 Nil £2,709
June,’o7 .. 1,571 Nil 4,280
Profit.
Dec., 'O7 .. 3,519 Nil 761
Reserves.
Premium on Reserve shares, £l4Ol 640
June,’oB .. 7,916 Nil £491 8,065
Dec., ’OB .. 6,378 £5250 862 8,331
June,’o9 .. 12,778 5250 1039 14,820
On June 30 the co. had £8462 in cash and £1390 in other
more or less liquid assets ; while the liabilities totalled
£495. Out of this cash a further dividend (£5000) has
lately been paid ; so that shareholders have got their
money back, and now have 72,800 short tons of ore in
reserve, of an estimated recoverable value of 395., besides
8000 tons of slimes worth 265. waiting treatment when
they find out how to do it—the present trouble hangs
mainly on the bad water supply. Last half-year’s costs,
apart from management and depreciation, were 17s. 2d.
per ton ; so on this basis, and taking the estimate of re-
serves and values as correct, there ought to be still over
£70,000 of profit in the mine, though no doubt some of
this will have to go in machinery renewals, etc.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, has continued
the eastern drive from the shaft at the 830 ft. level with
poor results. The quartz vein, although it carries “ fair
gold,” is narrow, and only 10 tons have been raised.
Crosscutting into the footwall from No. 5 near the
Brilliant Freehold boundary has not put life into the
market, which is beginning to ask the Towers for some-
thing more edible than promises. Brilliant Deeps have
now joined the deep-sinkers ; the underlay is going down
below 2413 ft. vertical. There is a large reef of fair
mineral stone, but this is only another case of “ pro-
mises.” Queen Cross is driving on a formation at
2310 ft. ; the ground is hard and the vein of white quartz
is not encouraging. Bonnie Dundee, on the strength of
a good crushing and a sixpenny dividend, has been in
more favor. Three levels are being pushed out in search
of something new to the east, for the bottom levels have
been disappointing.
• * » «
Mount Morgan’s return for August was £88,300
(taking copper at £59); this is £12,000 less than the July
record. In the latter month there was an unusually large
amount of gold (6820z.)in furnace bottoms and other odd
corners. Of copper ore 20,354 tons gave 649 tons copper
and 72140 z. gold. The average value extracted was about
605., which is nearly double the average from Great Cobar
or Mount Lyell, and considerably better than Great
Fitzroy’s. Of gold ore only 16,432 tons were treated, and
the return was down to £21,880. Even this is better than
was expected some time since, thanks to a patch of good
ore lately discovered in the upper levels.
* * * *
The reported discovery of gold on the railway
construction works between Mount Chalmers and Yep-
poon (Central Queensland) is not surprising. Years ago,
fossickers were working the gullies in the neighborhood,
and hundreds got a good living for a time. Even to this
day a crushing goes through occasionally from small
leaders near Cawarral ; and it is not forgotten that when
Captain Osborne took over the Fitzroy for Philip
Charley and himself, their intentions were officially stated
to be to work it as a gold mine." Hitherto, however, the
Rockhampton district outside Mount Morgan has been
mainly notable for first-class failures and high-class
swindles.
* * * *
0.K., the North Queensland copper show which
has just emerged from reconstruction, continues its
smelting career, although there is every reason for shut-
ting down the furnace promptly. Last published return
was 693 tons of ore for 35 tons blister copper. Quite a
mouthful is still made of the gold and silver contents of
some of the copper; but it seems humorous to report
about £5O worth of precious metals, especially as they
probably cost the co. about £7O to get. For O.K. to be
smelting a 5J per cent, mixture means that the good cash
put up under the reconstruction scheme is being frit-
tered away. The reconstruction money was subscribed
(1) to pay off the debt upon the property, and (2) to pro-
vide funds for development. So far all that has been
done is to waste money in smelting, and to “get
preparations under w'eigh for the resumption of sinking
the main shaft.” The medicine that O.K. wantsat once
and wants badly is this: “Shut down the furnace, and
guard every penny jealously while prospecting work is
carried on.” Even with those measures adopted the
chances are that the reconstructed capital will be
exhausted before another good body of ore is met with.
It may be that for market purposes O.K. should keep up
the appearance of being still a smelting concern, but
shareholders will undoubtedly pay dearly for this policy.
If they are wise, those interested will for the present
treat O.K. as a purely prospecting show, and work it
accordingly.
* * * *
Energetic Geo. D. Meudell, of Melbourne, has
whipped up a strong syndicate to send him to the Malay
Pen insula on the look-out for tin, rubber and anything else
that can be turned off later on to the public. The syndi-
cate—the Malay Tin and Rubber —has big ideas for the
future. Present idea is that Meudell shall leave for the
Peninsula early next month, with Fred Brown, an ex-
Queenslander, who has been dredging' in S. America (he
was at the back of the Transpacific Co. at one time); and
Theodore Fink will probably join them. They have
already arranged for influential helpers on the spoc. Zeb
Lane, who floated the Great Boulder, and therefore cuts
considerable ice in London, leaves next month to look up
J. Bull; he is a director of the syndicate, and will be on
hand to push along any rubber flotation, supposing the
explorers find anything floatable—and almost anything
with rubber in sight of it is floatable just now.
■K * * •
Re the report that a further 50,000 shares in
Great Fitzroy (Q.) had been placed in London, 8., M. and
Co. tell The Bulletin that no shares have been issued
since the accounts were made up.
■* + ■*■*
Bright Star, one of the Harrietville (Vic.)
dredges, keeps on the right side of things, but can’t get
far enough over on that side to pay divs. At first, tight
ground spoiled the work, and the dredge had to be re-
modelled. When that was finished, in the early part of
1908, the financial position stood like this:—Liabilities
(including £650 payable to vendors out of profits), £2554;
liquid assets (stores), £328. Nowit is: Liabilities, £1044;
liquid assets, £492. So in 12 months the deficiency has
been reduced by £1674. The ground is, however, still
giving trouble on account of heavy boulders ; but hope
sees better things ahead. So far, only 7i acres out of the
total of nearly 80 acres secured have been chewed up.
There are 1500 fully-paid £5 shares in this co.
• * * *
“ Larrakeyah, ’* from Port Darwin (N.T.):
There are over 200 men on the Umbrawarra field, ana
many new discoveries are being- made in the district. In
most cases the miners are making tucker, but a few lucky
ones earn up to £5 per week. There is a great deal of
sickness on the field, mainly among the newchums.
Umbrawarra is likely to remain a good tin-bearing district
for some time to come. Sensational reports come to hand
concerning Tanami, near the W.A. border. The latest
report says that 221b. of stone, the other day, gave 180oz.
gold. The beginning of the wet season will probably see
a rush for the district. The Government intends to send
out well-sinkers as soon as possible. According to all
reports, the nearest permanent water at present is nearly
300 miles away.


c
CORTICELLI SILK
WEARS LONGEST and HOLDS STRONGEST
CORTICELLI SILK MILLS, Established 1838
Australasian Office -91 a YORK STREET, Sydney
Yankee Doodle went to town
Upon a little pony ;
He felt a little hoarse, of course,
And said so to a crony.
The cronv said : “ I’hv certain sure
The remedy is plain,
You take some Wood’s Great Peppermint Cure,
And you’ll be right as rain ! ”*
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
tnr-
Shorthand, Typewriting
Keeping, Correspondence* Busine
FAritHmetic, Commercial Law*
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering,
Architecture and Building Construction*
Freehand Drawing, tc., and we coach by
Post for all Examinations.
Writ* for "HOME STUDY," Post Free
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson, Proprietor
ABRIGIN-
ALITIES
THE AXE IS MIGHTIER THAN THE PEN.
PROPRIETOR'S DAUGHTER : “ Paw , maw says can
you spare the new editor to chop some wood ?
Maw yets full, of splinters !”
PRO[?]ETOR OF THE DANDALOO DART : “ Not
just now , my child. He ain’t settled down
properly yet.”
Some visitors to the Queensland Jubilee,
looking out of the railway carriage window as the
train passed Clifton on the Warwick-Brisbane
line, saw what they thought was a vision. The
man was a German cocky with hair like a Moorish
insurrection and a maze of whiskers like the evi-
dence in a Chinese perjury case. The vehicle was
a spring cart patched with bits of old fence and
cast-off barrel, and tied together with string.
This cart was full of produce, and Hans sat on top
of the produce. The team consisted (1) of a cow
with collar, hames and all the usual fixtures, and
(2) a plain horse. Some excited visitors from the
South wanted to buy the whole affair for Sydney
Museum.
*•**.*
“Tot”: Be “Vigilans” (B. 19/8/’O9).
Aborigines own and work farms elsewhere in
N.S.W. than at Rolland’s Plains, Port Macquarie.
Near here (Gladstone) six full-bloods with their
families have decent farms. Some of them possess
smart turn-outs. One of the tribe, a male aged
about 50, is to be seen daily on the local racecourse
preparing a candidate for the November meeting.
Ihe untutored nigs, (so-called) play bridge and
crib with skill and self-restraint. Surprise parties
eventuate at regular intervals. If “Vigilans”
visits this town any washing day he may gaze on
a dusky damsel of 18 summers (and 10 stone
weight) who fairly paralysed a local landlady
recently by stating her wish to always finish work
early, so‘ that she might attend her music lessons.
* « * *
“ Edyson ” : I see the pronouncement of
a Melbourne doctor that alcoholic poisoning is
the commonest form of death from snakebite in
Australia. The medical expert seeks to abolish
the generous old bush custom of filling the bitten
Christian with raw brandy and rushing 1 him across
the landscape. He has his work cut out. There
is no stronger superstition in the wild woods. If
it were abolished, lots of bushmen would not think
it worth their while to be bitten. I remember an
interesting perversion of the great Australian
faith in the cold whisky cure. We had noticed
Busby taking to drink with both hands at a
Morwell pub, and were not astonished when he
came out to camp some days later, with
ghosts in his hair, two revolving eyes,
and a mind that refused to focus on the
facts of existence. He sat around for a
few hours, nursing his head, which he seemed to
imagine might fall off if not carefully held on.
Then he took another fit, and began chasing
among the litter and logs of the surrounding bush,
lorn my lhomas, his mate, kept an eye on him,
but did not intervene till Busby put up a great
yell and began gesticulating frantically. Three
of us arrived on the spot within SOsee. Busby had
his large foot on a yard and a half of untidy black
snake. We pulled him off, and the snake loped
under a log., Busby was disgusted. “ I’m drunk,”
he said—“l’m ’bom’ably drunk, ’n’ I was goin’t’
try the snake cure. I’ve heard that if yer’bom’-
ably drunk, ’n’ you let a snake bite you, you’ll
soon be all right.” It’s a poor rule that won’t
work both ways; but we tied Busby to his bunk
till he was capable of calm reflection.
* * * *
“Tracker”: Made my first acquaintance
with the Papuan native dog about a moon ago,
whilst ambling through the bush on the outskirts
of a native village. For the moment I thought
the mysterious exit of Reid’s canine (dry species)
was solved, and that fame was mine
at last; but close inspection dashed
my hopes to the loam. Compared
with the dingo, the Papuan dog is a
double-width O.S. nightmare. His
pedigree has been mislaid, but he
looks a cross between a greyhound
and a fantod. When sufficiently
energetic he stands about 18in. above
sea-level; but his chief occupation
consists of. lying down in any old
place, intimidating the manyous
mosquito with his loppy auricular
organs. Arriving at the village, I
was immediately surrounded by 468
of this brand, of every shade and
shape imaginable. They were .too
tired to baric or even growl—just
sniffed half-heartedly and laid down
in my path. After the nineteenth
fall, a woolly-headed nig, armed with
a young tree, cleared the way and
proffered a coeoanut to quench my
burning rage. The liquor absorbed,
Papua smashed the nut and hurled
it to the hounds. Instantly I knew
the sort of evolutions Bill Lyne per-
formed during the recent christening
of the “ Dickiii ” Ministry. Even-
tually learned that Papua’s pup is a
bigoted vegetarian, and lives entirely
on yams, poeoanuts, . pawpaws, sea-
weed, sardine-tins, and other fruits
indigenous to the soil. The prover-
bial drink of water is bloated com-
pared with our transparent tyke—he
is even too weak to drive Capital out
of the country. Verily, he represents
the poor relation of the numerous
dog family. Was, just leaving the
village when Papua fathered a weird
yell of joy what time he rushed to
greet the narrowest edition of dog yet pub-
lished. Theunbleaohed-oneexplained that this tyke
had been missing for five days—in fact, was a
prodigal. Then he dashed away to kill the fatted
coooanut for the refreshment of the wanderer.
* *. * *
“Henry Phelthatt/’,: Am ready to give
anyone a pull who says whiskers and cursing go
hand-in-hand, so to speak. Clean-shaven men,
and men with only beards (beard and whiskers
are not synonymous, mind), often spend several
hours daily committing their cursography to
memory ; but I never yet met one who could
curse sufficient to rivet the attention of an
audience. A properly constituted curse contains
88 per cent, carbon dioxide, is about as long as a
Dreadnought and resembles a crosscut saw. It
produces an earthquake effect. It will cure tooth-
ache and tiredness ; it will perform any kind of
bush work ; it will settle tradespeoples’ accounts ;
it will even bring down rain. But it must be
projected through a bin. interlocking whisker, to
give it that ragged edge which causes it to fairly
shriek as it cleaves its way through the atmo-
sphere. “Dick K.’s” combustible bullocky
evidently couldn’t curse, or he wouldn’t have set
fire to his team ; he would have shifted it. I’ve
noticed that women who sport chin foliage mostly
remain single. Perhaps they curse too ;- and a
woman who curses isn’t the.sort -.thaLyou' would -
care to ask to puf out the-forgotten milk jug. i
WHILE YOU ARE ABOUT IT.
PUBLICAN (to loafer helping himself indus-
triously to counter-lunch): “ You seem to be enjoying yourself with that counter-lunch.”
LOAFEER (bitterly): “ Call this enjoyment ? Why don't yer larc the band playin'! ”
Regarding an old gentleman’s account of
how he polished his spectacles and annoyed a
number of peaceful lions
There is a lot of humor in modern lion hunting-. In a
recent English magazine a mighty but elderly hunter
proudly recounts some of his recent lion-shooting ex-
ploits in British East Africa, and the general impression
is that of a bloodthirsty old person, accompanied by two
savages bearing guns, tramping across a strange land and
pausing at intervals to polish his spectacles. The lion
family is discovered at intervals sunning itself unsus-
piciously on ant-hills. (The ant people are old friends of
the lions, otherwise the lions wouldn’t.) Sometimes the
elderly gentleman manages to creep up and murder one
of the lions before they take alarm. If they happen
to see him coming they amble off into the, long'
grass and make peaceably for home. Then the elderly
hunter goes after them and wades nervously amongst
muffled growls until one of the animals incautiously stops
to see if the undesirable alien is still about. Then : “At
last a head was raised clear above the grass some 80yds.
away, and I steadied myself to fire. As I was on the pdint
of pressing the trigger, one of the gun-bearers pulled my
arm down and pointed to a large lioness that was stand-
ing quite close to my left, some 20yds. away. She was in
a tall bit of grass, and I had not seen her. As I turned
she vanished. The lion in front, during the instant’s
delay, sat up on his hind legs and gave me a fair shot at
his chest, which I hit full, though I was shaking a bit and
my glasses were terribly foggy.” The lion walks away
offended, and is subsequently slain whilst endeavor-
ing to get home. Further glimpses along the
article give always the same impression—bored
and irritated animals retreating before a well-
armed old person whose spectacles sparkle mur-
derously in the morning sun : “I saw with my field-
glasses an old grey lioness’s nose just sticking over an
ant-hill about 500yds. in our front. As I looked, she drew
her head down and slipped quietly into the grass. ... At
last, as I mounted a stilflsh ridge, I had a glimpse down
below of a regular bunch of lions all trying at the same
instant to get off an ant-hill. . . . I'shot twice, as quickly
as I could, and to my delight and surprise heard each
bullet tell and two loud answering grunts.” Then follows
a four hours’ walk after the poor beasts, and more spi c-
tacle-polishing, during which the old grey-headed mother
lion misses an opportunity : “.What I had taken for a
weather-worn tree-stump vanished with a loud, angry
grunt from before me.” If the lioness hadn’t heeii
prompt, the hunter might have sat down on the supposed
log to rest —like Johnson on the N.T. crocodile. If the
great hunter keeps on bothering lions much longer, his
spectacles may one day get extra foggy and make him
mistake a group of lions for a sofa. Then there will be a
tragedy for the Evening Bloodstain to gloat over.
* * * *■
“ The Boy ” writes from Papua :
More than a few years back, in what was then called
British New Guinea, those who went down to the sea in
ships had a rather perilous time navigating the little-
known coral-strewn seas round the less-known land.
Some of the Admiralty chartfs of the period were very
primitive. A huge mountain would be shown, apparently
rising out of the sea, and perhaps located At a distance of
50 miles, with no surrounding coast line. Another place
would have a bit of land that we know now to be a cape,
looking like an island. A certain part would be marked
with bays, etc., and then abruptly.cut off. And so on.
The pioneer trader had thyse, charts, and as he came
and went on his way he dripy'daborious lines that repre-
sented the places he had b'ecitto." He in turn might lend
his chart to a man going there for the first time, and thus
it would pass from one to the other, each adding his
iittle art collection. The greatest oil painting I ever saw
in this line was an early chart of theTrobriands Islands, in
the possession of Captain Blank, who had sailed since'
very early days in New Guinea waters in charge, of One of
the mission schooners. . .
He had to go to the TrObriands, and knowing nothing
about the place tried to pick up information in Samarai
before starting. He was advised to go to “ Nick the
Greek,” who knew the place better than most.
So to Niek he went, got what information he could,
and was lent a chart that for years past had been used
by every son of Greece that had gone there. In those
days the Greeks Were the only people who went there.
The chart was such a curiosity that when he came back
the captain gave Nick £2 for it. And that is how I
had the good fortune to see it.
Every Greek had added his little knowledge and “Billy
the Greek,” and “Pat tbeGreek,” and “ Mick the Greek”
had in turns helped to decorate it with red, black,
purple, and green inks.
It was a creation. In one place a rock would be repre-
sented by a black object like a sentry-box. Coral reefs
looked like green sausages with a pain, and sand hanks
sprawled Over half the available water front in pale blue.
An object that looked like a cross between a sea-serpent
and a hump-back whale, in red, indicated to the fraternity
of traders that “ Pat the Greek ” had succeeded in hook-
ing a large kingfish thereabouts.
And then the coastline was simply superb. 11-re a
bay would be marked “ Good place for. yams.” A little
further along, “ Fine fowls here,” would stare you in i he
face. Nothing was wanting—“ Big Village,” “Natives
here cheeky,” “Two pounds of tobacco stolen here,” and
yet another, which occurred with alarming frequency,
“ Good place for women.” And, carefully written on the
borders of the chart, was a detailed table showing the
ruling price for everything in tobacco, knives, toma-
hawks, calico, and beads.
Some short while back I read somewhere that there was
a society in England, by which early charts and maps
were valued and stored away with great care. If this is
so, I consider the society in question should lose no time
in securing, in the interests of science, to say nothing of
humor, the chart of “ Nick the Greek.”
MANNERS MANYTH MAN.
THE MAN ( answering applicant for situation):
“ No, my boy , you aren’t the sort of person
I would employ. I don't like the look of
your face.”
THE BOY : “Neither do I like ther of yourn.
old un ; but I wouldn’t are sed so if yer
adn’t been so durned cocky. Yer can always
tell ’ow a bloke’s been brunged up by the way
’e expresses’ imself.”
A SONG OP THE GIANT HEARTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The snow lies white on the Tasman hills and the air bites
cold and raw ;
But the log-men fight with mighty wills a-tune with the
crooning saw;
While the weaklings shiver, all woe-begone, and the sad-
eyed poets dream,
The men of might are marching on with their floating
flags of steam !
They are faring forth with the gleaming axe—in the
forest’s midmost ways
They are bending low with straining backs, and the
Nation’s track they blaze.
And a song I sing for the timber-men, who, far from the
sordid marts,
Are writing Life with a deathless pen—the men with the
giant hearts !
The band-saw roars in the timber mill, and the winch is
rattling loud ;
The blue gums crash on the skyward hill and their stately
heads are bowed,
Mo calls the odds on the crowded flat, where the jaded
fools are seen ;
And Percy’s wielding the cricket bat—but what of the
Titans lean ?
Where the tree-ferns follow the winding creeks, they are
bringing the mighty down ;
Where the “knocker ” clangs and the engine shrieks they
are raising wharf and town !
SO a hymn I raise for the heroes true—so a cheer from
Australia starts
For the nameless kings, for the fighting crew—the men
witli the giant hearts !
The pessimist croaks in the reeking bar, and he weeps in
his dismal beer ;
But the crash of the blue-gums echoing far sounds forth
like a trumpet clear !
The pinchbeck mimes of the thoughtless town, they strut
on the tawdry stage.
Where the monster trees go roaring down men fight for a
Baresark’s wage !
Where the axes flash and the cables strain, where the
“ landing"’ shakes and groans,
There’s a.nation born—of the natal pain I would fashion
in major tones
A ballad of strength and a song of hope. When the
wintry s.un departs
They are straining still on the anchored rope—the men
with the giant hearts !
Where the myrtles lift their shining heads and the sage-
, green dog-wood grows,
There the. White Man battles and firmly treads on the
vamped-up creed of woes !
There the White Man slogs in the early morn—a cheer for
his eight-foot saw —
And he turns his face with a Viking’s scorn to the vapid
priests of Jaw !
The winds may blow and the rain may come, enshroud-
ing the Tasman Hills ;
But he's marching on with a thunderous drum, and
there’s hope when the White Man wills !
So a song I sing—and fools may scoff, may jeer at its
halting parts ;
I sing of the Toilers straight and tough—the men with
the giant hearts!
Tasmania.
ORANT HERVEY.


PRATT’S
THE WORLD’S RICHEST SPIRIT.
Gives more power gallon for gallon
than any other.
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
The only Motor Lubricants that are
scientifically manufactured.
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties .
Send full particulars, with all plans and reports
available, to “ MINE.” care J. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Frenzied With Fear
Are many who develop lung: trouble. Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery for cougrhs and colds will
cure them. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS.
Eleven reasons why we sell so many Rings:—
1. We are the actual makers.
2. We make them on the premises.
3. We buy the gems in the rough.
Two Selected Dia-
monds ami Golden
Sapphire, £l5.
Five Selected Diamonds,
£25.
Choice Diamonds and
Sapphires, or Diamonds
and Itubies, £lO 10s.
We cut the gems. 5. We save all intermediate profits.
18ct. gold gem rings. 8. We are gem experts.
10. We receive them direct from the mines.
6. We are ring setters. 7. We only make
9. We carry a larjfe stock of unset stones.
11. We sell them at London prices.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
FAIRFAX g ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: I want to start
another competition regarding the queerest-named
■station property in the Commonwealth ; and
hereby enter a well-known station, “ Will-I-go-
bung?” in the Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) district.
Any competitor who buys a station in order to
christen it curiously, with a view to winning the
competition, is to be barred.
* ■* -Jr *
The farmers of Maoriland are pursuing
ithe importing lunacy again. Once it was spar-
rows, weasels, stoats, starlings and owls ; now it
•is martens and swallows that the man with straws
rin his hair is yelling for. If a farmer in Maori-
land finds two caterpillars in the corner of a pad-
dock, he rushes off to the nearest Agricultural
and Pastoral Association and demands that
■something be imported at once. What with the
things that have been imported to deal with the
insect pests, and the further things that have
been imported to deal with the things that were
imported previously, there isn’t much that
walks or flies that hasn’t been dragged into
Maoriland by the hair of the head in the
ihope that it would do something which it never
■even attempted. The African lion and the man-
eating tiger have not yet been called upon, but
some maniac will shortly suggest that they be
dragged along to deal with the imported red and
fallow deer that are already causing M.L. some
anxiety. In the meantime the marten and swal-
low proposal is being carefully considered. Prob-
ably the best thing that Maoriland can do is to
import everything from the driver ant to the boa
constrictor, and then let Nature argue the point.
By this means the country will at least get all its
importing lunacy over at once, and then it will
have time to tackle the repayment of its public
debt.
* * ■* *
“Noah” re “ light variable, winds” :—
There is a deep-seated loyalty to the owners beneath
the stolid taciturn demeanor of the tenant of the
mercantile marine bridge. I once took a business
trip round the east coast of Tasmania, which bore
on this and other things. The trip took about a
week. The boat was somewhat smaller than a Sydney
North Shore ferry steamer. I slept on deck, and also hail
my meals there the whole time, doing biz as the boat
touched at the various ports. I lived like a king—King
Billy. The cook served his time in a tannery, so the pas-
sengers said, which was quite likely, as he could make
most durable leather from corned beef. The captain was
an uncut diamond. He did not address the passengers as
Mr. or Mrs., but usually christened them afresh. He
called me “Docker”; but I didn’t mind this, as a stiff
and starched M.P. who daily expected to become Sir
Blank was addressed as plain Brown. To hear him
address the crew was equal to the best hair re-
storer. On our return trip, the super or Chinese
steward crossed him. He threw the curry in the
Onow’s face and bang-ed him on the head with the
tin plate. He also said: “Sooner than allow such a
scurvy crew to trample me under heel I’d scuttle the
d ship.” The crew never admitted a rough trip. We
mostly met weather after rounding some point, and
thence on to another point, which I remember equally
well. I asked the skipper if he intended to put in for
shelter. He guessed'his ship (meaning the river launch .
under him) was going through, and would land its pas-
sengers in town a good hour ahead of the coach. We
shipped seasg-alore. The rowing boat lashed for’ard altern-.
ately filled, and had the water emptied out of it as'the -
ship jerked—it was too small to roll. The crew crawled
about and hung on to the rails, and the engineer down ’
below worked ankle deep in water. The skipper
got shot from the wheel once, and somersaulted back-
wards over the iron rail. He did a “Carrington” down
t lie deck on all fours after a deck chair, which, in turn,
chased a biscuit tin. By way of re-assuring the few pale
passengers who clung to the various fixtures, the captain
made an off-hand kick at the biscuit tin, but the
steamer’s funnel darted forward, clouting him smartly on
the head, and he rolled back to duty like a sack pf
potatoes. I Chen ventured to suggest that it was a bit
rough, but having to get hastily under a spread of canvas
to avoid a sea which broke prematurely and shot over the
ship, with the exception of a portion which poured down
the funnel, I only caught the words “duck pond.” I
looked up the shipping arrivals next day for curiosity.
The Swallow' (our boat) reported “ light variable winds.”
The Westralia coming down the coast was hove-to to save
the live stock on board. Some day the Swallow willmeet
a gale, but it W'on’t be the skipper who reports it; unless
lie does so to Peter or the other gentleman with the
three-pronged fork.
THOUGHT IT WAS A
CHURN.
FROM WUGGABAGGA : “ Well, I’ve
fottered him down two streets,
and ’c’s bin turnin’ all the time, and we haven't seen
the cream come yet!”
From Randolph Bedford :
“ A Man in the North,” in a recent Bulletin, talks of
the Eastern and African Cold Storage Supply Co. which
“commenced operations at Arafura and put up build-
ings at Blue Mud Bay in the Arafura Sea. The object
was to extract bovril and ship frozen beef.” According
to “ M. in the N.” the co. was “floated by the indomit-
able Bradshaw five years ago.” Here are the facts :H.
H. Drysdale, self and Bradshaw held the 20,000 miles of
country, and first H.H.D. and then myself went to Lon-
don to float it. After six months of humorous disappoint-
ments I left the float to Drysdale. The indomitable
Bradshaw was first manager of the co., and we lost
±BO,OOO for a start. First profit made was £17,000
assurance on Drysdale’s life. Arafura has 60in. rain-
fall, and that’s a swamp. Hussey Burgh Macartney
had a station on Florida, in the middle of Arafura, many
years ago, and abandoned it. The droving and the
general management w'ere farcical. Watty Marshall re-
ported on the concern, and Bergl Australia, Ltd., took
the management. A good many thousands of fats were
sold off the country, but the concern had already got it
where the turkey got it at Christmas, and that’s in the
neck ; so there were never any meat export or freezing
works erected—except in the prospectus. There’s a book
in the funny business of the float—l’ll do it one day.
It is significant that, according to the
inspired daily papers, “the recent floods in
Victoria caused more damage to the railways than
any previously experienced for over 30 years.” It
isn’t so much that the floodswefe wor.se as that
nowadays the railways are worse. When the
THE RECONSTRUCTION OF SYDNEY.
FIRST DOSSER: “ They’re talkin’ av resuming this park fer the Greater Sydney scheme. What's
ter become uv us?”
SEOND DITTO: “ Well, ef you’re been in one place 20 years youse kin claim compensation.”
lines were built, water-courses were bridged over
and wide spaces were allowed for big bodies of
water to pass under. To save the expense of
keeping some of the bridges in repair,-from half
to two-thirds of the_*spaces have been filled in
with earth in later years/ Miles of line which
-were formerly bridges are now earth embank-
ments. For instance, the Wimmera River flats
at Glenorcby were spanned by bridges for-nearly
a mile ; but so much filling has been done that a
sort of dam has been formed. When an unusually
heavy fall of rain occurs, this dam is washed
away, leaving the rails >and sleepers hanging. It
is all of a piece with thejcheap and nasty .Victorian
railway management of modern times.
“Camel Pad”: Bourke, which frizzles
away out on the brink of the great nor’-west sand
patch (N.S.W.), must now pretty well hold the
Australian pub record. With a population re-
duced to 1800, including kids, but omitting goats,
it moistens its throat at 15 beer-pumps ; and evi-
dently it doesn't think 14 would be enough, for it
voted for “continuance” lately. Of course,
Coolibah Charley used to come in with a cheque
big enough to keep any modest pub going for a
month, and pass it over the bar ; but nowadays
Coolibah Charley is mostly married, or has joined
the Y.M.C. A. or something, and that makes the
marvel of Bourke’s 15 pubs still more marvellous.
“Zenda”: “Silas Snell” (B. 12/8/’O9)
suggests the possibilities of Highton, near Gee-
long, blowing away with the first prize in a windy
district competition. This amounts to an insult
to Wellington (Maoriland), where the atmosphere
is almost perpetually in a terrible hurry. The
other day a hatless man had his scalp blown off
in that city. Also a large dog and his kennel
were blown away. A fowlhouse and stable and a
horse blew away the same night. A painter who
was falling off a roof was blown through an open
window and saved. One of the reasons why we
are so pious here is that some years ago the wind
was so high that it blew away the Devil.
DEAR THINGS THAT I LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No one can steal the dear things that I love from me,
Nor can I throw them away like a glove from me ;
Gum-trees and brumbies, buckjumpers and sheep,
Roads winding in where the scrub belars weep ;
Quart-pot and billycan lunch in the bush ;
Soft tramp of the sheep and the cattle’s wild rush.
They are deep buried away in the heart of me,
Welded or rooted, and joined as a part of me ;
Brolgas that dance in the long reedy grass,
Kangaroos scudding away as we pass ;
Fruit of the krin-tree, sour to the alien,
Good to the taste of the bush-born Australian.
Though they be parted by miles upon miles from me,
Memory never shall withhold her smiles from me :
tight flooding 4 down in-the glory of day,
Warning the soul of the bushman ahvay ;
Wild flowers scenting the spring of the year,
When sheep are a-bustle and sheds are a-shear.
They color the heart, the life and the soul of me,
•Giving their best to me, gaining the whole of me :
A blue and white sky and swift, flashing flight
■Of birds, pink and grey, through the warm, gold light ;
titter of leaves on the sky and stems brown
•Of ironbarks that spread towards the sun’s going down.
Why are they good to see, why are they dear to me?
Only my country —home—that’s all is clear to me.
Bread for my body and food for my soul,
Drink for my thirst, though a pint be my bowl ;
[Filling the heart with joy of wide spaces,
There lies the charm of the old station places.
K. S.W.
R. A . HO[?]
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.P.: “Shirtless” missed by a stitch or two.
Jang: Unsuitable... .Handy A.: Not bad, but the
yarn has been told about so many other niggers
Spongia : Will keep the gentleman in mind Eight
Wheel: Grieved to hear of the over-dressed scout-master,
but decline absolutely to flagellate him in these columns.
Oomplain about him to Sydney Sunday Times John
Douglas: The chances of inducing N.S.W.’s kirk-ridden
Government to foster rifle-shooting on the Saw-
bath are as remote as G. Eeid’s Tiger Sosh
C.L.: Pathetic poem about the man who “ came down
the road in his Sunday clothes ” has been tearfully laid to
rest ...N.A.E. : Don’t believe that old story has ever
been told quite so flatly and lengthily before.. ..Narna :
Sketches useless to either paper. Verses too dashed
mournful for anything but “In Memoriam” columns of
the dailies.. ..Botor : Don’t call to mind your previous
pars, but the one submitted is well below the publication-
horizon Larrake.vah : Can’t say that these aboriginal
ditties are calculated to raise the spirits on a wet day
C.P.Y.: Mere verbal assault and battery. You don’t
supply a single example to show the official’s bias and
incompetence Milo: Too long. Also anonymous
Boronia : Over 365 bards have struck that idea and hurled
it to us W. W. Cook : Strained funniment... Taniwha:
Canned discord promptly hushed J. 8.: Childish rub-
bish. . .E. J.Collins : Not even Buckley’s.. ..S.Grainger:
“ Cow critic's” opinion of Shakspeare would carry weight
with the noble animal he worships....L.F.W.: Quite
interesting after the first two sentences...U. Brack : Your
wish to have the sod stamped down on your head when
you are dead is hardly worth recording. It’s the sort of
thing that is liable to happen in any case.. .Jack Cole:
“Night’s Reverie” is busted up by the wild irregularity
of the lines. “By drifted trees on Wairarapa’s shore
hard-beached” is hopeless. As you sent no address the
basket ate it A.N. : “Go Ahead” is one of the old
“ Awake ! Arise ! ” poems, which fail because they don’t
tell the people what to do when they’ve ariz ... W.E.N. :
Didn’t give Lawson your letter. It was calculated
to drive any man to drink W.P.Y. : “Tele-
pathic Tanner” is a failure as a drink poem. We get
drunken poems every day. In fact, we get drunkest poems
twice a day. ...Tracker: It has recommendations, still
“sauce” won’t rhyme with “horse,” and “palms,” re-
garded as a rhymefor “ charms,” is a dead failure Ves-
per : No space available for long accounts of old bushrang-
ing doings.. .M. A.O’D : Tuppenee-a-yard style of jingle...
J.W.O. : Suggestions anticipated years ago... H. Wale:
Your friends are pulling your leg, and your “ talent ” is
still underabushel KeppelS.: Time-honored japes
Cynicuss: Eight alleged “Epigrams.” No. VI., which is
as good as the rest, reads: “To aggravate your wife,
don’t look at her when she comes downstairs with her
new hat on.” Well, here’s another “epigram”: “To
aggravate ants, pour boiling water over them.” A.
Wilson : The 21 jokes arrived. The majority were fired ;
the remainder are undergoing consideration “Shade
of the Yew ”: Your style is somewhat too Johnsonian for
the Abo. page. F’rinstance : “ Apart from the superfluous
formality of remote genealogical tracing, I may not he
denied an active hereditary claim to an acute interest in
the absorbing topic of birds, insects, animals and
reptiles.” And so on Lycurgus: It depends on
how you sell the furniture, and how much of it
you sell. If you hawk it or make a practice of
selling it, you need a license; otherwise n0t....
J. A. Kinman: All said before and a lot better
Harry J.: No use for long-winded chatter about hens and
drink-mad bagmen .. V. Fanshawe : The English papers
are welcome to your melancholy jingle about “ blue-eyed
Arthur” and “ the heaving main," and the faithful lover
that comes back on his bier, and all the rest of the hack-
neyed outfit. . .Ploughboy : Fragments badly broken up.
....Greenstone: Commonplaces in bad verse 1\ H.
Norton : Very nice handwriting, but the poem is piffle.
And (ye gods !) how that piffle does piff! Cracker:
Foreword only has arrived G.E.B. : Quite so,
but your verses bump like the Sydney trams
S.R. : Old-lvtters pathos done to death. ..Viking: The
lady is happily dead. Suppose we give her a rest ?
G.W.J.: About as exciting as a hard-boiled egg
J.H.L. : Your poetry useless, whether written in long lines
or in short verses.... M. V.M. : Wants some fire—sacred or
profane, we don’t care which D. 0. Shanahan :Isit a
joke or an epic, or merely bitter sarcasm? Tramp:
Epic about Chumphy uncalled for J. Jingle : “ Camp-
fire yarns” too voluminous F. J.: Australia isn’t mak-
ing “big guns at the works of Clyde,” and there are no
Australian warships “warped to the harbor side.”
Other poem also makes wild statements ; f’rinstance,
that you are beholding a ship from afar and also
guiding it along Kelpie: Kailyard drunk un-
interesting. Our drunks are gum-tree drunks,.
Ray G. Worthley : True as death and nearly as trite
Mars: They wouldn’t make anybody laugh... Gentle
Annie: We buried your poem, and will plant daisies on
the grave as soon as the rain stops. ..J. P. Work: Not
buying ancient stories or pigs in pokes. Stuff that suits
is purchased at current rates... .S.F.C. : Rough end un-
ready.... Burke : Poem unmetrical; prose stupid. ..
Gerald Hanse: Long narrative of how Chow pirates
seized a 300-ton steamer, with full-rigged captain, three
officers, three engineers, large crew, and windows to all
the cabins, declined with hearty thanks Garnet
Bonney : Drunken gentleman gives wedding ring to an-
other drunken gentleman instead of to the girl he’s going
to marry ; and is sorry afterwards that the second drunk
didn’t keep the bauble Marcus 0. : Not worth the
proverbial Oliver Gordon : Not in this paper will you
find the lodge of joy, or any other lodge, “along- the
maze of fancy romping.... Ziska, etc.: Tabu yarns of un-
interesting drunks, stale reports of low-class pugs, old
World missionary items, facts and fictions about Alpine
avalanches, wordy chunks front country newspapers, and
everything else that is not of live general interest.
Moreover, your poem is anathema.. ..Bachelor Boy : Un-
marketable tripe .. A.S.E. : Consult a lawyer, or write
to the Trustee Co., Perth.... 8.M.: “Harbor Twilight”
miles too long and thin. ... B.E.P. : Kailyard capers off.
May use the other E. Collis: No sympathy with mad-
dening church bells S. T. Lugg: Reads like an
auctioneer’s advertisement... J. C. T. Norris: Weari-
some conventionality . Bindvi : Seeing you have time
to waste on such a trifle—the prefix was struck out in the
proof in all three cases as mere surplusage, but the com-
positor accidentally left one prefix in. What business
do you follow that you have leisure for such trivialities ?
L.M.B. : “ Boronia.” very trifling. And there are other
points .. .8.E.P.: “ lit Memoriam ” no use to this paper.
Apex: “The Site’’doesn’t rise to the greatness of
the occasion T.E.A. : Pretty, but there is no demand
for translations and adaptations... Jep : “His Place”
reluctantly passed out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.E.S. : Gags old and drawings are mere scratches
F. Kelsey: Old joke badly pictured Zero: Horrible,
and otherwise uninteresting Judith C. : There are
drawbacks —a heap of drawbacks.... B. G. Lambert: We
bar pictorial jokes about dishcloths in soup... .H.R.R. :
Sketch slain even deader than it was when it reached us.
Fred Nelson: We have no “usual terms” for the
jokes and drawings you send ; they are too unusual.


"tC
siiV’f} 6fi.roj>l*& i»>^
"too J
IV rfis v/ay -
fir^Twe tjoiTc^
*se old Vs
J>rowide<4 1552
r 7 [>€nti|
Wyft J^ocKct^oofc, *h
y'X Which V "lAfas
/ "fleers.
H&, we *V ■
! 4 1
'"[(Jen f’ore trover
6,11 i<"
"f>. gets .
yj" /
S>y Joe
*Wrc
|1 0 j| r
his l»+He *e«ro|>l*fe '
M
-\ *f*- a bi«rc»s -.4+4 „
\ ho ovul <2-/52-. rs
\\ ‘ l '* I
<2. W'Otfcl .
/^d2 v*>w/),'/g Da4
A vrihKlc
OV two {Vo*Y> Me
rv72sr», vko
•S 0
H J>* v-v easily
lye h\odz{
“ N|o noore Wor/C j Ti>
~h>tv)orirer 111 be & I
ll .
I'OVS I
A Ore
durii-fp v/l)ic\ we l&Y ]
. cheque. Ic
/ O'tfie.y |
W<L will e qr^
roow,
See 1
Vh,l«. no otjc\ 100K.r,0 ife {^m
<ioc s 6 f Xerobl^Tno - ' ovl
ow sL®*.
Oujr 'To totormr J *
Defence' Pip t
MELBOURNE. Og
f? <2, .
J)CoxSlA^
We ‘KwvK"
IvuKjlci £)p <*■ Nfc-uj
lit* ,%0 •"*.
'five. ,
Hfft*J-ev«A } we. o43uju.
i3f~ FvU( AcCjCuW-
<Ctu Cxrv4 i^4A^i#v
"frU*. £*ax
t,vU/Jtezt <»- >vx^r
n . /gup*
•P'S. H never
‘TomorKer ! is orf)
OUR ATTACK OF AEROOFOBIA.
The Ordnance Branch of the Defence Department is being besieged by hordes of eager inventors who are anxious to establish a
claim on the prize of £5000 offered for an Australian aeroplane.


EMIGRATION AND THE BIRTH-RATE.
Should the Conference agreement be ratified by Parliament, each child born will be a gain of 25s. to the State ; and each person leaving will mean a loss of a similar am ount.-Daily Paper.
Victoria: “Strikes me, if these two items keep on increasin’ the way they are, I’ll find meself owing the Commonwealth a few thou!”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
In cricket field or football bounds,
Sporting- with gun or following hounds,
In swift horse-race or yachting course,
Where’er a man’s delight finds source,
One more delight keeps him aglow—
Best game of all —’tis sport to know
That Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure was sent
To be man’s best medicament.*
The Latest and the Best
Remedy for chest complaints is Dr.
New Discovery for coughs and colds,
when all else fails. Price Is. Gd. and 3s.
Sheldon’s
It cures
ADVICE TO RHEUMATICS.
Noted Physician Tells How to Prevent and Cure
Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Troubles.
If you would avoid rheumatism, kidney and bladder
troubles, be moderate in the consumption of heavy rich
foods, substitute as far as possible soups, broths, fresh
milk, and drink water—lots of water. Take plenty of
time to eat, and don’t eat after you have had enough,
even if it does taste good. If your work is confining, take
a moderate amount of exercise each day in the open air.
Of course, neither diet, rest, water nor exercise will
cure these afflictions. We advise them as preventives
only. For the benefit of readers of this article who are
now afflicted with rheumatism, kidney, bladder or
urinary troubles, and desire to be cured quickly, we give
below, complete in every detail, the
which has made a great authority on the subject so
successful in the treatment of these diseases. It is the
most certain cure which has been used. It is pleasant to
take, it is not expensive, it can be supplied by any
chemist, and we believe it to be the greatest prescription
for rheumatism, kidney and bladder troubles ever written.
It is also a valuable tonic and blood purifier. If you are
a,sufferer, take this prescription to any chemist and have
it prepared; or you can obtain the ingredients
separately, and mix them all at home.
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup Rhu-
barb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound, one ounce ;
Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
The dose for adults is one teaspoonful taken after
meals, and one at bedtime. Children should be given
one-fourth to one-half teaspoonful, after meals only.
After you are cured, follow the advice given as to diet,
water and exercise, and you will not need the services of
a physician again for these ailments.
Note.—Other papers are privileged to copy the above.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Motto of the modern one-man-dash ex-
plorer: “ Too many Cooks spoil the broth.”
Ned ” Simms, just dead in Adelaide at
4j, was the eighth or ninth of that famous brew-
ing family to die within as many years. He was
chairman of Tattersall’s, a member of the S.A. J.C.
and Stock Exchange committees, and possibly the
best amateur billiard-player in the State. His
'•"It Permian ran second in the S.A. Derby three
or four hours before lie passed out.
J. H. CANN. M.L.A.
WT> , ~ ~ . . T
. xtOSSer, Wno was up before Justice
Pring at Albury in connection with the disturb-
ance of a railway line during the Broken Hill
troubles, but was acquitted by the jury has
started a naner at CJohar IN S W I—the Tm 'i,™
Started a paper at Lobar (IN.b. W.) the iHINKER.
Rosser, a tierv Welshman, is an enthusiastic,
whole-hog Socialist—such a whole-hogger that the
Labor party makes him tired and the Labor press
makes him despondent.
“D.”: Web Gilbert, the Melbourne
sculptor, going over some moulds that had come
into his possession, took a casting from one, and
found it to be a death-mask of Marcus Clarke. I
never knew before that such a cast was taken,
and everybody of whom I have inquired expressed
the same ignorance.
Died in Ceylon, aged 56, C. G. Warnford
Locke, the most indefatigable mining writer of
his day. He spent a few years in Australia as
superintendent of the once-famous mines at
Lucknow (N.S.W.); but he had serious trouble
first with the mines and then with the miners,
and therefore quitted the place. Probably no-
body else knew quite as much as he did about
mines and mining in “the East”—from China
down to Singapore—and he spent years roaming
thereabouts. A fine, vigorous, powerful fellow, if
he hadn’t taken to mining he might easil}' have
got two-inch letters on the bills as a strong man
in a circus.
David Ivirkcaldie, assistant Railway Com-
missioner of N.S.W., died on Sunday at a Sydney
private hospital, aged CO years. He was a native
of Kirkaldy (Scotland), and commenced as a cadet
on the Leven and East Fife Railway, a stumpy
little concern now owned by the North British
Co. In 1874 he got an appointment in India, but
for health reasons abandoned it and came to
Australia in 1876. Soon after arrival he got a
clerkship in the traffic manager’s office, and
worked his way upwards. He was the only one
of the three old commissioners who remained in
office after the conspiracy and disruption which
ended in Oliver’s retirement.
An obituary item :
Mrs. Bayly, widow of Nicholas Paget Bayly, formerly of
Havilah, near Mudgee (N. S. W.), died the other day. at Stan-
more. She was the daughter of one Blackman, who is said
to have been the first discoverer of the site of Mudgee,
whereby “Giraffe” Taylor and John Haynes were made
politically possible. For if there had been no Mudgee
there could have been no Mudgee Taylor and no Mudgee
Haynes. Bayly, one-time husband of the deceased, was
a son of Nicholas Bayly, of N.S.W.’sold Rum-selling Corps,
and was secretary or something to Colonel Johnston
during his usurped Governorship. On the death of Mr.
N. P. Bayly, Havilah was purchased by H. White. The
price was said to be £BO,OOO. Mrs. White, the widow, has
invested some of her coin in Beulah Flats, at North Shore,
a building that faintly suggests the Tower of London.
A traitor to his class principles has arisen
at Fitzroy (Vic.), and has protested in council
against the handing out of illuminated addresses
to ex-councillors. “Each of them costs 15
guineas, and what are they? A piece of paper in
a wooden frame. I had two, and I’d take 7s. Gd.
for them.” Truly, the life of a councillor is a vain
and trumpery thing. An election, aided in many
cases by beer and personal grovel to ratepayers ;
a thankless period as mayor; a few attendances
at council, full of windy repartee and wordy
insult; a punch on the nose, perhaps; a painted
bit of paper in a square of wood; and then —
oblivion !
A photo, of W. J. Lyne when he first
entered N.S.W. Parliament, 29 years ago, shows
him an agricultural-looking man with a clump
beard and dry-country cast of eye. Old hands
say there was doubt as to whether he was a sheep-
man or a wheatman, but he soon cleared the
matter up by advocating the remission of £250,000
owing by selectors. Some who sat in the House
wherein Lyne first appeared are still lively—
Harry Levien, for instance, and George Reid—
but most went for their wings. Parkes, who said
selectors were burglars, and Bob Wisdom the
pugilist, and Pat Jennings the musician, and
Dave Buchanan the freethinker, got measured for
their flying apparatus ; and Stuart, Squire Farnell
and John Davies applied for harps. A few
others, such as Tom Slattery, Pa Brunker and
Francis Abigail, are out of Parliament, but do not
yet fly.
Sky-pilotage has its perks, if one is to
believe the statement made to the Goulburn press
by C. Johnson, bush missioner and ex-Anglican
minister, lately brought up for soliciting alms and
discharged. Thus spake Johnson
If some of the young ladies of Goulburn whose house-
holds I visited had wished to do me an injustice they
could have come into court and done so; but they did
no such thing, because they knew perfectly well that
every act or word of mine towards them was done in love
or fondness of them. There are certain privileges
attached to the clerical profession besides preaching or
administering the Sacraments. A clergyman should be
master of the people. The Catholic Church call then-
clergymen fathers. That explains what the clergy really
are, or should be. We all know what a father of a family
should be, and also what he shout! do towards his family.
I have heard of a clergyman who when visiting his flock
before leaving them would kiss the children, some of
whom were young girls 16 or 17 years of age, and this
man did it in real love or fondness of them ; and I am
brave and bold enough to state that during my twoyeais
as an Anglican clergyman I have done similar actions
myself. We all know how the apostles and saints of old
have suffered because of the faith within them.
If these tilings be so, bow comes it that the
clerical business isn’t rushed? “Masters of the
people!” Licensed kissers of girls up to sweet
seventeen ! All the same, it’s likely that unre-
generate fathers and big brothers who caught
white-chokers at this pastoral game would view
the matter with some disfavor and heavy boots.
What the apostles and saints of old suffered be-
cause of the faith, would be a small circumstance
compared to what their lineal descendants would
Vie called on to endure in the attempt to exact
their pleasant little dues.
By the Oldest Inhabitant (more public-
houses) ; —-
Apropos the Liverpool Arms and Ben Palmer and his
copper tokens (B. 2/9/’O9). The bird on Ben’s apology for
a penny was a Liver, not a Lyrebird—Liver-bird, hence
Liver-pool. Another Sydney publican used tokens also,
Alfred Toogood, of the Rainbow Tavern, on the opposite
(western) corner to Ben Palmer. Toogood’s house in the
early days was the Bunch of Grapes, kept by Michael
Napthali, who had been a draper in Lower George-street,
and from whom the soldiers Sudds and Thompson stole
a shilling’s worth of calico—that calico which caused such
commotion in Governor Darling’s time. In time the
Rainbow came into the possession of Jim Punch, a popular
rowing man, who died in it. Frank Punch was the last to
hold a license for the premises. Munro’s Federal Bank
got it, and held it until its eminently disreputable
decease. On the third corner of the intersection was
The Rose and Crown Inn, kept bv William Toogood,
brother of Alfred. He also had Toogood’s Hotel on the
S.E. corner Market and Pitt streets, a house afterwards
kept by Detective McGlone, who arrested bushranger
Gardiner. Yet again William Toogood had another pub
property, The Golden Fleece, on the N.E. corner
King and George streets. When William was dead
enough, the widow married a St. Peter’s parson, Rev. C.
C. Kemp, and by his influence the pub license was aban-
doned, and the property let to the City Bank, when that
institution first commenced money-changing. Every de-
scription of trader minted (in Birmingham mostly) copper
tokens in the early days of Sydney. But the greed of the
minters caused the privilege to be abolished. They re-
duced the penny till it became hardly visible, and when
they tried at last to make a shilling’s worth of coppers
out of about a penn’orth of metal the Law grew angry.
John Jacob Cohen, who chairmans N.S.W -
Assembly, is not satisfactory to even his own
crowd. Varnished Parkes,sonof Vanished Parkes,
had a motion of censure tabled against Cohen, but
the Speaker ruled that he could not discuss it.
Chairman’s re-election was solidly opposed by the
Labor party, on the ground that he had displayed
partisanship, but the Wade whip was cracked.
Since then, John Jacob has done his best to be
impartial with difficult} - . He is a barrister and
qualified engineer, with a tendency to watch too
closely for points of order. This is all right before
the Bench or in front of a disorderly boiler, but it
is tactless in debate. The wise chairman shouldn’t
listen too attentively.
“F.C.”: Tra-
pesing round Mel-
bourne the other
morning I hap-
pened into an auc-
tion room where
an energetic
gentleman was
enthusiastically
drawing atten-
tion to the merits
of the late George
Bennett’s collec-
tion of curios,
with intent to
persuade a couple
of score of dealers
to part good coin
therefor. The
popular Ric h-
rnond M.L.A.’s
collection was
motley, not to
say mixed, rang-
ing from abori-
ginal waddies
and clubs to
stuffed alliga-
tors, antique pis-
tols, and South
Sea idols. There
was, however,
but a poor de-
mand for the
antique just
then, and a
whole heavenfnl
of gods and half
a stuffed muse-
um could have
been bought ]
for the price of
Judas’s treach- [
ery. One not-
able relic was
the alleged
saddle of Ned
Kelly. There was
no guarantee that
the article had
ever belonged to
Edward, but it
looked like it. being
a large, comfortable
piece of furniture
with a couple of
huge pistol holsters
attached to the pommel.
A reckless dealer got it
for 9s. Another article, illustrating the late
collector’s catholic taste, was a plaster cast
of Deeming’s head and a couple of feet
of the rope, including the noose, with which
he was jerked across the Jordan. The goods
should have been worth a pound or two to a wax-
works proprietor, unless he has the same piece of
rope already ; but they went to a harmless-looking
private citizen for 4s ; . 6d. The slump of Deeming
has evidently been considerable.
Dr. Cook, who tells the wondrous story
about reaching the North Pole, is alleged to be a
Jew named Koch. Credit Judceus / He travelled
practically SoZws—his two Eskimo don’t count.
A wise man, Cook. “ What is known to more
than one is no longer a secret.” And, as Napoleon
said, “ He goes furthest who goes alone.”
Thomas Main, who claimed to be the
oldest locomotive driver breathing, spoilt his
claim by dying completely at Richmond (Vic.) on
a recent date at the tottery age of 90 years and 10
months. Deceased, a native of Scotland, secured
the loudly-prized distinction of driving the pilot-
engine that preceded the late Victoria’s first visit
to Scotland. He had been in Australia since 1852.
The legal surprise of the week in Sydney has
been the appointment of the two Crown Prose-
cutors to fill the places of Merewetber, retired, and
Armstrong, deceased. Why Barrister White took
such a job is as hard for the ordinary Costs-
pursuer to resolve as is the reason why Barrister
Mason was singled out for it. White is well known
and esteemed among employers of junior bar-
risters. He is a sound lawyer, a useful man with
a jury, and popular. The fact that one of his
calibre is inclined to take a prosecutorship
suggests how extremely bad things must be at
the Bar. Mason is possibly a good man, but it
may be roughly estimated that most solicitors and
90 per cent, of the general public have never
heard of him. Still it is known that he has
appeared occasionally as junior to C. G. Wade,
that he has had Crown work from Wade, that he
-lives on the North Shore, and is on- Wade’s elec-
tion committee. Incidentally he once had cham-
bers with G. H. Reid.
S. Australia’s worst poet is Robert Cald-
well, yet as Robert was for many years a mem-
ber of the State Parliament he somehow gets the
papers to print his awful productions. Nobody is
ever reckoned quite dead thereabouts till Cald-
well has written something to jingle over his
grave ; and when the Waratah didn’t turn up to
time lots of people got up extra early to read
what their favorite-poet had to say about it. He
suspended judgment for three weeks or more,
and then this explosion happened (it is only part
of the explosion, but nobody deserves more who
has paid his sixpence):—
She crossed the Indian Main, no ill disturbing,
And, having berthed and coaled, pursued her way
Alonsr the billows from the Port of Durban—
Eight hundred miles, to Table Mountain’s Bay.
Far longer out have many vessels been,
Where greater dangers menaced, that have made
The hearts of thousands glad, whose eyes had seen
Their friends in life, whom they had wept as dead.
When Captain Moresby in the Talune
Found the Waikato on the Tasman Sea
She had been drifting months, o’er billows moony
And all on board were well as well could be.
The last verse deserves to be embalmed.
There is a bad time ahead of Johnson, the
awful M.H.R., who doesn’t want Australia to
have an army and navy, because the terrible
Labor party might some day turn them against
Great Britain. The Laborites'will, at next election,
run a young Presbyterian parson, T. S. Crawford,
for that seat ; and this Crawford seems to have a
way of getting votes —he won hands-down in the
Labor plebiscite. The electorate, by the way, is
Lang, which is appropriate, since it was named
after the first Presbyterian parson who battled his
way into N.S.W. politics. One or two other
Presbyterian meenisters have got into Parliament
since J. D. Lang’s day ; but—-like Ronald, the
last of them —they haven’t been stickers.
HIS SIDE APPENDAGES.
“ No w, will you calm yourself and listen to what
I am going to say ? ”
“All right! Go on, go on! I’m all ears.”
Croker, Melbourne’s solicitor and old-
established dandy, is known for something more
than the fastidious elegance of his waist. Mr.
Croker is also known for the studied magnificence
of his bills. Bent employed Croker to appear for
him before the recent Commission which inquired
re the Bent deals in soil, and Croker has pre-
sented his account to the Weary Government,
which weakly agreed to pay a reasonable propor-
tion of Bent’s expenses. Croker’s account is for
a backward sum of £525, and is just about £lO
short of the combined Costs of all the legal gentle-
men on the Government side of the inquiry. The
Government is believed to have settled up for an
amount between £350 and £4OO. Apparently,
therefore, the Government submitted the ex-
quisite’s bill to reasonable taxation. But Croker’s
bill ought to be taxed with a cannon.
“Montalex”: It does not seem to have
occurred to any of the recent industrious grubbers-
up of the late ex-Justice Foster’s pedigree that an
equally close investigation of the antecedents of
the conventionally “humblest ” in any community
would give astonishing results as regards being
“well-connected.” Nay, further, it has been
mathematically demonstrated (I have not the
figures by me, but doubtless some Bulletin
readers will be able to corroborate) that every
Briton or Britoness now alive possesses some share
of Plantagenet blood (and much good may it do
’em !). The demonstrator of this proposition was
an artillery officer, who had got tired of hearing
Fred Burnaby—the “Ride to Khiva” man—
pluming himself upon his “Planty” descent.
When the calculation had been duly formulated,
Burnaby at first snorted contemptuous disagree-
ment ; but he afterwards went carefully through
the figures himself, and, being no fool (many
people said that was why Queen Victoria never
liked him) admitted that it was correct.
THE CASH VALUE OF GOD’S OWN COUNTRY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mrs. Melba mused again on the richness of the country
she had travelled through. “ Yes, Australia is God’s own
country. There’s a man up at Orange who bought fifty
acres, and put down 25 acres in cherry trees. And now
from those cherry trees he is making £2OOO a year. At
Dubbo I saw boxes and boxes of enormous oranges, and
where they were grown is the most beautiful orchard you
have ever seen, and the owner makes more than £2OOO. ”
—Daily Paper,
Mrs. Melba mused again.
Memories of hill and plain,
Clad with blossom pink and white
Made her murmur in delight—
(“ Yes, Australia is God’s own country. There was a man
up at Orange who bought 50 acres and put down 25
acres in cherry trees. And now from those cherry
trees he is making £2OOO a year.”)—
Cash and blossom, understand,
Travel always hand-in-hand
In this Southern Eden land,
And the singer stills the song
As she moves herco. along,
Takes a pencil and a slate
Makes a hurried estimate
Of the value F.O. B. < '
Of the fruit that she can see
Blossoming on shrub and tree.
Mrs. Melba mused again.
Landscape glimpses from the train
Did once more a springtide dance,
And she murmured, in a trance :
(“ At Dubbo I saw boxes and boxes of enormous oranges,
and where they were grown is the most beautiful
orchard you have ever seen, and the owner makes
more than £2000.”)
Orchardists both far and near
Make two thousand pounds a year.
From this fact it would appear
As though God’s own country grew
More than blessings. What think you ?
Or perhaps it is the gold
And the oranges they’ve sold
Makes them call it God’s. Ah, me !
Where’s your springtime poetry,
With God’s Country F. 0.8. ?
N-S.w.
F. O. E.


ill
m
f
mm.
w
i
MS
■
'*'■■
*OT
&
HHH
\3F
***T' i
. *r
Sw**'4Bf- &mmP
N
prs
a
f,
i
//
m
. it
w
ft
v. s
7 ; ' *
r
.4* ' r -
* K »'f ■ V,u*w^-
4
* ;
mu
it
3
At the Lyceum Hall, Pitt-street, during the week, crowded
audiences have enjoyed the seri'es of biograph pictures illus-
trating the journey by motor from Coorna to the Hotel
Kosciusko., tha series of ski and toboggan races at the first
great Snow Carnival, and various scenes in the vicinity of the
Hotel. The pictures came as a revelation to the majority of
those who saw them. It is difficult even yet for most of our
people to realise that they have a stretch of hundreds of
square miles of snow-covered country —so like the highlands
of Switzerland or Norway. The Australian winter snowfields
may be reached in a comfortable journey of 16 hours from
Sydney, at little cost. On the snow will be found a palatial
hotel, quite up to date and with all the conveniences of a first-
class city hotel.
The winter sports, which have had a great vogue during the
last few months, will he indulged in only for about another
month before the novelty and sensation of the snowfields give
way to the summer delights of trout-fishing and mountaineer-
ing. Those of the Australians, and their name is legion, who
have never seen snow, should avail themselves of this oppor-
tunity. The English snowseape is beautiful, hut the Aus-
tralian bush, with its evergreen trees laden heavily with snow,
every leaf bearing its burden bravely, is an even more won-
derful sight. And the glory of the little furze bushes, with
their leafy tendrils loaded and crystallised, bending down
into the snow in graceful curves, is something to quicken the
pulse and fire the imagination.
You may play in the snow as babies play with the sand
of a sea-beach. More sedately, of course, and with a finer
appreciation of the beauties you move into being. In ski-ing
over Hills you will, enraptured, discover real snow eaves,
where an aggressive bubbling' creek has cut out a track for
jtself, getting a fleeting glimpse of earth and sky only to
disappear again in a few yards beneath twenty feet of snow.
Here you will see exposed a wall of snow ten, twelve or
twenty feet high, its white, powdery strata cleaner than an
ocean roller on the strand of an undiscovered shore, and you
gaze, amazed that such a structure should be at the mercy of
a rainstorm or a thaw. You may push your brake-stick four or
five feet into the snow and light a torch of a beautiful iride-
scent green, changing to blue. In the timber you may, if the
gods are kind and recent falls have been heavy, find scores of
trees linked up by the snow, their branches joining and inter-
twining, and bearing a load of snow forming a fair}' canopy
which seems but an audacity of the imagination.
A special “ Monaro Week ” has been arranged for the 11th
to the 18th September, and during this period special arrange-
ments have been made for the residents of the Monaro district
to visit the Hotel Kosciusko.
WINTER’S SNOWS AT MT. KOSCIUSKO
I. Ski=running on a Kosciusko slope.
3. Quests on ski at the Hotel Kosciusko.
2. Motor-car on the service.
4. Tobogganing on a Kosciusko hill.


A reliable medicine for croup, and one
that should always be kept on hand for immedi-
ate use is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
Walter Bradley & Go.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining 1 Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered (roods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
On the railroad you hear of their fame,
If you cross the wide ocean the same;
Our Pills Laxo-Tonic
Cure ills that are chronic,
And thousands are blessing their name.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.»
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
State wishes clearly, Bull Fights, etc.
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed *by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underiving tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases ir, cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price—3/6.
Please note—Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDGWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A reliable medicine for croup, and one
that should always be kept on hand for immedi-
ate use is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
CORRECT TREATMENT
FOR ANAEMIA.
♦
One that Increases the Blood
Supply.
+
This Woman on the Verge of a
Decline, found a Valuable
Remedy.
Anaemia is simply a lack of blood. It follows
that the correct treatment for anaemia is one that
increases the blood supply. In fact, that is the on'y
treatment that can be successful. The symptoms
of anaemia are easily recognised. Paleness, list-
lessness, indigestion and failure of food to nourish,
headaches and often in women and girls back-
aches. The vitality being very low, renders
anaemic people liable to contract influenza, fevers
and other acute diseases. They have not the
power of resisting attack. To restore the blood
supply to its normal quantity, Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills for Pale People can be recommended with
confidence. Firstly, because they are known to
have cured a host of anaemic people—that’s the
highest possible recommendation. Secondly, be-
cause they actually contain ingredients that
will combine with food and oxygen to make red
blood corpuscles. The case of Mrs. May Schiller-
man, Piesse Street, Montana, Coolgardie, W.A.,
well illustrates the advantage of treatment with
them in cases of bloodlessness.
Mrs. Schillerman stated to a reporter:—
“Anaemia set in gradually when I was a young
girl. My appetite faded away to nothing. For
days at a time even the lightest and daintiest
food wouldn’t tempt me. I was ghastly white,
under my eyes were dark rings. My gums and
lips had no blood. If I cut a finger it would only
bleed slightly, and
the blood had no body
in it. I remember
one day I had a tooth
pulled, and there was
not enough blood to
tinge the water. If
I walked any distance
my back ached
cruelly, and if I lay
down the pain wasn’t
much better. I
daren’t walk quickly
or climb a stair
rapidly. I’d just haxe
to stop and rest ftr
the awful thumping
ofmy heart. If I stayed in a hot room, I’d faint
off. I had no strength to do anything. My head
ached for hours, the pain pressing on my eyes, so
that I could hardly see. I 3lept very badly, and
woke up more tired than when I went to bed.
My feet were generally stone cold and my hands
damp and clammy, and I’d wake at night covered
with a cold sweat. My feet and ankles used to
puff up. I was dreadfully low spirited. At last
a lady friend advised me to take Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. The first box did me good, and in a
little while they quite restored me to health. I
haven t a trace of anaemia, though I formerly had
it for years. Now I look after my home and
nothing tires me. I sleep well and there are no
more of those headaches and faint turns, as Mr.
Schillerman can bear witness.”
The price is 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if you have trouble in getting them send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney, and
they will be sent post free by return mail.*
; -a
.•' Bl
!& - i
'—U?
Mrs. Sohmerman
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
•»
J
s:
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE EVILS OF PROFESSIONALISM.
Mr. Mauger, who I s th e Protectionist apostle of the
Federal Parliament, brought forward his motion for the
appointment of “a permanant competent body,” on the
lines of the British Board of Trade,” to watch closely the
operation of the tariff... Because he sat at the table
while the last tariff was being passed. Mr. Lyne has come
to regard himself as the One Real Protectionist in the
Parliament. He showed this in continual grumblings
and interjections... The motion was seconded by Mr.
Sampson, an d Mr. Bruce Smith strongly supported
it-ARGUS.
BRUCE AND SAMMY: “Garn! I don't bleeve y'
want good men; anyhow, 'tain't your ball!”
BILL: “ Well, anyhow, you ain't l be trusted in
th’team. You've played so much on the other
side, you’re liable t’ forget which direction
you're kickin' !”
It is alleged that it was Digby Denham’s
lefusa] to go on any longer with a majority of one
which drove Queensland Premier Kidston into
hunting for a,dissolution. When the majority is
only one any member of the party can be that one.
and Digby said he was the one. Digby is prob-
ably Australia’s Most Mobile Son. He has been in
the last four Ministries—under Morgan, Kidston,
1 hilp, and Kidston again. The agile produce
merchant from Rockhampton was always there
when the offices were being given out. The next
Ministry will look quite lonely without Digbv
Denham. & J
“ No Treasonable Offer Refused.”— Lyne
on Deakin.
From the Old Soldier :
Ex-Defence Minister Pearce the other day told the
Senate that the Japanese at Thursday Island could easily
rush the 60 artillerymen who form the burlesque of a
garrison, and take the whole place. He is probably right.
Thursday Island is practically a Jap colony, and the
alleged “fortifications” could not be defended for an
hour against a determined rush. There seems to be
some sort of mad idea of mounting more big guns at the
island, but what good big guns would do without men
behind them is not clear. Sixty men could not work
more than six big guns at one time, and if they were sub-
ject to a regular haminer-and-tongs bombardment which
would not only kill and wound some of them, but disable
some of their guns, the fort would be silenced in 24
hours. The alleged “garrisons” of Thursday Island and
Albany are really only sufficient to do fatigue duties
and fire occasional salutes ; for the defence of either
place they are ridiculously inadequate, and the provision
of more big guns will not make matters better.
The British voluntary army costs £lOO
per annum for each soldier, which is expen-
sive. In the United States, where wages
are nearer to the Australian standard, the
voluntary army costs £240 per annum for each
soldier, and that is probably about the sum
Australia would have to pay if it follow'ed
the advice of its Anglo-maniacs and stuck
to the voluntary principle. At that rate
100,000 soldiers—little enough for the de-
fence of a continent—would cost £24,000,000
per annum. Switzerland keeps its whole
capable male population armed and in fair
training for £8 per year per man, and the
difference seems worth considering. Also
even at £240 per head the U.S. finds it
impossible to recruit a force of 80,000 men.
Glorious Freetrade again! The Amalga- 1
mated Society of Carpenters and Joiners, one of
the three big British unions whieh have branches
in Australia and S’Africa, has actually 561 less
members now than it had in 1899. Last year so
shocking was the state of trade in Britain that
£112,253 was paid away in “unemployed bene-
fits,” the average in that country being 375. 3d.
per head. On account of the mining slump, things
were supposed to have about reached the rock-
bottom of wretchedness and misery in S’Africa ;
yet more unemployed benefits were actually paid
per member in Britain than in S’Africa—37s. 3d.
as against 31s. 2d. In the way of creating unem-
ployment and distress, Freetrade can obviously
beat even the worst of mining slumps any time.
The F used Government keeps on apolo-
gising and sliding away. The latest news is that
it won’t buy up the private lands in the Federal
territory, so that the increased land values created
by the establishment of the Australian capital at
Australia’s expense may be the property of the
Australian people. Private landholders are to
remain in possession and annex the profits. Why
the Australian people should make a present of a
few hundreds of thousands or a few millions of
pounds to certain big N.S.W. landholders the
Lord only knows, unless it is the price at which
Cook and Fuller, of N.S.W., will keep Deakin in
his billet.
There is a vague impression that the
only industries in the hands of the Chinese
in and around Sydney are furniture,
laundrying and vegetable growing. But
recent explorations by Labor members
have revealed the fact that the Mongols
are by far the largest producers of “ white
work ” for the drapery establishments. The
work is let out by the contractors to other
Chinese and white people ; but a very large
proportion of it is done in Chinese dens
where the heathen eat, sleep and have their
Joss. The stand-by of the fallen woman
is the Chow white-work shop; and when
business is pressing a Chow goes forth and
sweeps up the pavement. The nymphs
are brought in and set to work ; and in
due time the underclothing of the Chow
and the oldest profession on earth finds
its way to the wardrobes of the Very Best
People of Darling Point. And vet, for
some inscrutable reason, Premier Wade
refuses to compel Chinese goods to he
branded, so that his friends may be able
to identify this drapery, and refuse it if
they don’t want it.
Thus the deceased George Meredith
The (ear of death is the real cause of the English
objection to conscription. Men come to me and say "that
their trade would suffer, or they could not spare two
years from their apprenticeship. Their real meaning is
that they are afraid of being- called out and getting shot
at. So they pay others to do the killing and dying for
them. Every manly nation submits to general service
In the present state of the world it counts among the
necessities for safety. But nothing short of an invasion
will induce England to think of it seriously. As it is
80,000 Germans could march through England from end
to end.
The Fused Government retains its hold on
the Wakefield (S. A.)seat, rendered vacant by the
death of Frederick Holder, but the victory “isn’t
much to brag about. In 1901 S. A. was polled as
one constituency for the election of its seven
Representatives, and Holder was successful. He
came fourth among 17 candidates. In 1903 S. A.
was divided into constituencies, and Holder was
returned for Wakefield unopposed. In 1906 he
beat J. H. Vaughan, Labor candidate, by 3017
votes. This time the Fused Government put up
Foster, an old and respected S. A. State politician
who had held a portfolio in three Ministries, and
the same Vaughan his majority was only
On June 30 this year the public debt of
N.S.W. reached £90,307,419, an increase of
£2,671,593 during the year, despite Wade’s
alleged “surplus.” It is an appalling record
when one considers the taxes that the Deform
Government took off and the railway rates that it
reduced on the pretence that the State has more
money than it knows what to do with. Just
about four years more at this rate of folly and
N.S.W. will have a centenary—it will celebrate
its hundredth million of debt. And the people
seem to have quite forgotten that the infamous
Deform Government attained office on the promise
of Carruthers to reduce borrowing to £1,500,000 a
year, and possibly to cut it much lower or even
to abolish it altogether.
The P. and O. Marmora left Sydney on
August 28. Says the daily paper :
The principal lines of cargo shipped were 3232 bales
wool, . . . 120 bales leather, . . . 4000 crates rabbits.
One hundred and twenty bales leather ! And in
a year or so N. S. Wales will be buying back some
of that leather in the shape of boots ; and as the
poor Australian cheerfully pays about 25 per cent,
more than he need, he will remark—“We can’t
make boots like that in Australia; you see, we
can’t tan the leather out here.”
THE VERANDAH-POST NUISANCE.
Public convenience and good taste j us tify the
campaign against the city by verandah-post in which the
Government Architect’s Department has given a sensible
lead. Whether the verandah itself ought not to be
barred is a question. But, as for the verandah-post, it is
a nuisance and an obstruction, which progress should
have lopped off long before this. —Sydney Paper.
And what will the evening paper lean its list of
horrors against when the post goes of
Melbourne Argus lias now discovered that
the reduction of the Victorian birth-rate is due to
the working of Wages Boards. Formerly the AlifiUS
declared that all such evils were due to Protection,
but since the Fusion it isn’t safe to say too much
against Protection, so the baby of responsibility
is left on the Wages Board’s doorstep now.
The Owe’Sullivan has joined the N.S.W.
Parliamentary Labor Party. Now G. R.
McLaurin, of Bill Lyns’s Albury district, is sus-
pected to be making for the same camp ; and
R. D. Meagher is already boiling his billy in it.
The Sydney D.T., Wade, and all the rest
of the Tories who have been objecting to a third
party on “high Constitutional grounds,” are of
course delighted at this fading away of N. S.
Wales’s third party; and they shy bricks, car-
toons and other mud at every man who crosses
over, just to show how delighted they really are.
De Largie, Henderson and Croft, of West-
ralia, quit the Senate next year ; and the Laborites
on that side have been choosing three men to
battle for them. De Largie and Henderson—
both of them old N.S.W. coal-miners’ union
officers—won’t be disturbed ; and along with
them the party will run Buzacott. The third
choice isn’t much of a speaker, but he is a sticker,
and he and Mines Minister Gregory have been
fighting one another for a State seat for years
past. Last time Buzacott was unseated on
petition; and over that business he got enough
sympathy and advt. to land him just ahead of
.T. B. Holman in the big Labor plebiscite.
A Victorian Land Board lately discovered
a new gang of bushrangers. Out past Morwell,
in Gippsland, the State’s surveyors laid out a
three-chain road. It is not much used at present,
but it is liable to be a busy track bv-and-bye.
Some of the greedy soil-snappers, however, con-
ceived the idea that if they planted a few shrubs
along their frontages, the'local council might be
persuaded to reduce the track to a width of one
chain, and allow them to fence in the two-chain
strip as “plantations.” The council was quite
agreeable, whereupon one owner promptly fenced
in 26 chains of the road—a trifle over five acres—on
the strength of having planted some 20 trees im-
mediately in front of his house ; and others seem
to have done just about the same. The Land
Board, having discovered this remarkable grab,
announced that the whole business was utterly
illegal, the council having no more right to give
away a slice of road than It had to sell or swap a
slice of Bourke-street; but so far nothing seems
to have happened to that council or to the bush-
rangers either.
“ Battler ” writes :
I can safely say that at no period in the long struggle
of the workers of Victoria for some measure of power in
the control of the industries by which they live has a bio-
employing concern assumed so tyrannous a tone towards
its employees, or held them by so tight a hand, as the
Tram Co. does now. It is more than a gripman’s billet
is worth for his wife to be seen talking to a democratic
politician, and it would go hard with him if his aunt were
known to be on speaking terms with Fred Anstey, or any
other Labor M.L.A. To be suspected of desiring to help
the formation of a union is sufficient to cause any man to
be promptly spilt out, and it is as much as his job
is worth for conductor, gripman, cleaner, battler, or
other grafter in the service to dream of furthering
the agitation for Wages Boards. Officials have even
moved among the men, stirring them to get up tearful
and eloquent petitions against the infamous Socialistic
proposal of a Wages Board to determine what is decent
pay and what are reasonable hours for the Tram Co.’s
workmen. In one shed a notice was posted, informing
the hands that a sympathetic attitude towards the Wages
Board scheme would mean the long shift off for the
guilty wretch. The system of espionage is so far-reaching
that an employee simply never knows his luck.
Neil Lewis, Premier of Tasmania, wa s
probably the saddest man who went home from
the Premiers’ Conference. The conference broke its
front teeth over the fact that the only possible way
to prevent the arrival of Federal industrial legis-
lation is to establish a comprehensive system of
State industrial legislation. Tasmania hasn’t
gone in much for that sort of thing, and the news
was divulged to Lewis that he had better go back
and legislate industrially at once, otherwise his
neglect to do it might furnish the Commonwealth
with a reason for doing it, not only as regards his
State, but as regards all the States. And Lewis,
who was made Premier because he was considered
to be a solid Tory and wouldn’t even dream of
industrial legislation, returned to Tasmania weep-
ing bitterly into his top hat.
If a suggestion which is now casually
hanging around takes definite shape, the Fathers
of Federation will have their portraits painted
and hung up in a national portrait gallery that
future generations may admire them. A strange
lot will be these probable Fathers. Among the
builders of the Constitution who were elected to
the Federal Convention there were some earnest
Federationists—Barton, Carruthers (he was a
vigorous Federationist then), O’Connor, Wise,
Quick, Deakin, Isaacs, Kingston, and one or
two more. But the majority stood for election
because they felt so important in a local way that
it was incumbent on them to be there. It would
be a wild joke to paint the portraits of Brunker,
McMillan, Reid, Simian Phraser, Solomon, Dobson
and their kind as Fathers, or even Uncles. They
were present to assert the fact that no national
convention was complete without them ; but to
depict them as infuriated and whole-souled battlers
in the Federal cause would be to turn history
upside down.
THE CALL OF LOCAL INTERSETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is of importance to women to maintain the stability
of the States, because they are the guardians of purely
local interests, and women’s ctiief interests are local.—
Melbourne Argus.
The little local female lives her little local day
Absorbed in little things, in her own little local way ;
She does not lend an ear to hear the loud Australian call,
Nor bothers with the silly stupid Commonwealth at all;
The little local male, to whom the Greater Things are rot,
To him she looks admiringly—this little local lot!
The women West and North may be Australians. All the
same,
Australia doesn’t matter to the little local dame.
What odds if women West be gay, or women North be
grave ?
That only matters West and North ! Let East and South
behave
In their own little local way ; let things Australian rip
So long as of the local things we have a solid grip.
The little local church bazaar is good for trade and that ;
The charity committee’s mostly little local cat;
The little local politics of little shilling leagues,
They are the thing, with all their little penny-bun
intrigues ;
And woman’s work is in the Home—remember that, my
dear !
So long as maids are plentiful, and know their place
[Hear, hear !].
Yes, this is life —to seize the joy each [local moment
brings,
Despising not the petty day of little local things ;
Why, when State guv’nors beam on little local bowing
dames,
What pleasure can be found in playing larger Federal
games ?
Pray how, to social leaders, can race-problems seem
immense,
Or friends of fancy-work take up such fads as—say,
defence ?
This matter of our foes is not for local womenfolk !
Why, people say Australia’s foes are just a stupid joke !
What though some larger greater minds look anxiously
ahead?
A hundred years and, small and great, we’ll all of us be
dead !
Though things Australian boom or burst, and nations
soar or slump, j
The little local feminine, why should she care a dump ? ]
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


SUMMER 1909 CATALOG
l
e
r
-H.
3^
s?
%A
S
\
MUl*
Y.
Us#.
m
!^
\\
/
C^s
f~
m
fss
l/te
\
e
s
,'j: !
Buckley & Nunn Ltd.
-The Greatest Hail Order House in Australia
Ma'nu/acturers
gr Direct
Suppliers
to the Public
AT LAST
A Standard Typewriter at a Reasonable Price.
■f "?s\-
*
v
«■»
-.4
its*
m
K
■x
s;
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable
Keyboard.
Unlimited Speed.
Two-Color Ribbon.
Steel Type.
Powerful Manifolder.
Light Touch.
Portable.
Built for Hard Work.
Warranted for two years.
THE BRITON
NEW MODEL NEW OFFER.
This typewriter is too well known to need lengthy description. It is the
ideal writing machine. Simple, never gets out of order, even with the
heaviest work. It will take as many carbon copies as you require, and will
cut a perfect stencil. You can pay more money for your typewriter, but
you cannot buy more real honest typewriter value.
We ship this machine, charges prepaid, to any town in Australasia, give
you ten days’ free trial, warrant it for two years. When you have tried
it, remit to us £9 ros., and it is yours. If you want to pay in instalments
we charge ios. extra.
Write to-day, giving references, and ask us to ship a BRITON to you
for io days’ free trial.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
Cor. GEORGE and WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
17 Queen St., Melbourne; 364 Queen St., Brisbane; 131 King William
St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Hobart; 17 Grey St., Wellington, N.Z.
- EDUCATION-
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence C?!te
Can Train You —By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott's Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams. :
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,, VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
172 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
Brookman’s Chambers, GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
vm.
S'
PRING is now with
us, and the daily bath
is not only a
cessity, but it becomes a
positive luxury when you
1
use ..
gA '
Eau de
Cologne
and to further increase
your enjoyment use
Bath Salts
Either of these will pro-
vide you with an excel-
lent cleansing bath;
but, combined, the ex-
hilarating sensation
is delightful.
By the latest mail we have received the choicest Essences of VIOLET, ROSE,
LILAC, JASMIN and HYACINTH—Retailed at 4/6 per Bottle.
IMPORTANT.— These essences are prepared in the most concentrated form possible, and
contain absolutely no alcohol. Only an infinitesimal quantity is sufficient to produce the
natural and lasting perfume of freshly gathered iLila.cs, etc. To obtain the best result, the
article to be perfumed should simply be lightly touched with the elongated stopper.
Should slight stains appear on any fabric thuus perfumed, they will only be temporary and
will disappear in a short time.
OBTAINABLE FROM ANTHONY HORDERN 8 SONS, and WASHINGTON H. SOUL 8 CO. LTD.


Charles Heidsieck
HEIMS
EXTRA DRY
/#2%
(c= Y
FINEST EXTRA Q?
Does Yoisr Hair Worry You ?
It is no easy matter to find a specialist who success-
fully treats all scalp troubles, and in Mrs. Cowling’,
Manageress of the Hvgeia Institute, we have a specialist
of no mean order —one who has demonstrated by
practical results that premature greyness and baldness
are both preventable and curable. She is an earnest
worker, giving each patient individual treatment, and her
fees are really most moderate. She gives free consultations
every afternoon but Saturday between 2.15 and. 4.45,.45,
and, by appointment only, on Wednesday evenings
between 6 and 7.
Those who are in any way troubled about their
hair should call in and see Mrs. Cowling, or write for
her booklet. Some of her most remarkable cures have
been treated entirely by correspondence.
Her new address is HYGEI.A INSTITUTE, Ocean
House, opposite Government Savings Bank, Moore
Street, Sydney. <
N*
Cookin’s not half bad if you
have nice people to cook for —
my idea is a cook ought to be
boss of the kitchen, and nobody
should interfere with her the
sort of place 1 like is where
the missus leaves everythin’ to
me —l knows what’s wanted
how much to order, and the
best sort to buy—much better
than any missus does.
The thing that most people find
hardest to buy, with satisfaction
to themselves, is tea —it isn’t
everybody as knows when tea
is good, do’ye see ?—now, I’ve
tried ’em all, and the only
tea 1 ever bother about gettin’
is Robur 1 like the No. 1
Grade, and 1 believe it’s as
good tea as can be got.
Tea travellers don’t waste their
time about my kitchen 1 tell
’em straight out l won’t be
bothered with ’em—l know what
Robur is—it’s good wholesome
tea it’s always the same, and
the flavour’s just as nice as
nice can be, and what more
can anybody get or want.
The Cook.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 7, 1909.
My Dear Arint,—
Addressing my mind this week, in common
with the rest of the newspaper-reading-
section of humanity, to the freezing question
of Arctic exploration, I arrived speedily at
the conclusion that the explanation of Dr.
Cook’s triumph is to be found in the fact that he
was the first of his kind who had the hardihood
to make the trip without a Bridge party. If there
are enough explorers to make up a Bridge party,
and perhaps some menials as well, the run on the
commissariat is too great. Dr. Cook’s companions
were two Eskimo, neither of whom, it is safe to
assume, was a Bridgeite, the game not having
penetrated to their country. It is obviously easy
enough to get to the Pole if one has ample
leisure and is not hampered by the presence
of a horde of hungry Sybaritic acquaintances who,
having eaten all the blubber and so forth, turn to
ultimately and devour the motive power of the
sledge. The attainment of the South Pole should
now be a simple matter. Taking a line by Dr.
Cook, the next to adventure there will doubtless
take with him, not two colleagues and 30 dogs,
but 700 dogs and only himself. It is hard to see
how any Polar explorer could go wrong in those
circumstances, since at the gastronomic worst he
would always have dog to fall back on for dinner.
A reliable compass, a fur coat and a foot-warmer
would be about the only other things needed.
Cranbrook, now inhabited by State Governor
Chelmsford and family, is undergoing alterations
and repairs, as the builders’ notices have it. Exten-
sive disarrangements for the better are in progress,
to the value, report says, of several thousand
pounds. The vice-regal place of Australian exile
ought to be made pleasant for its occupants ; but
the ring of the woodman’s axe is so loud and long
in the land of Rose Bay that extensive tree-
felling must be part of the improvements. The
tree lover hates to know that the objects of his
affection are being slain. O, that someone would
invent an infallible tree-restorer in a bottle !
The Lord de Clifford, who upset his motof-
car last week and was killed immediately as a
result, is a nobleman who a while back married
Miss Eva Carrington, a London stage beauty. He
had most of this world’s desirable things, youth (he
was but 24), a son, an attractive wife and money.
What madness to risk all that motor-scorching.
Preferably would I, in such circumstances,
habitually wear flannel next the skin, and travel
in some perfectly safe conveyance, such as a bath-
chair or a wheelbarrow.
Peeress Dudley and daughters will be present
at the Amy Castles opening concert on the 18th
inst. at the Town Hall. At the following concert
the Chelmsford vice-regal brace will probably sit
in the seats of the mighty.
At a recent Sydney suburban wedding break-
fast the bride received a hint that the covering of
something deposited in front of her was not to be
removed till the feast was well advanced. This
at the request of the giver. Curiosity as to the
hidden treasure extended round the board, and
suggestions, light and airy, heavy and tragical,
helped the conversation. At last the bride
removed the draping, and disclosed a heart-shaped
cake with a dagger buried in it to the handle.
She fainted, and shrieks, hysterics and general
commotion ensued. Investigation proved the
donor to be the old-enough-to-know-better woman
friend of the other girl. She took this means of
showing her disapproval of the broken engage-
ment. The cake and dagger dame has the repu-
tation of being the kindest soul on earth, which
only goes to show that woman is a mystery at
whatever age you mistake her.
Two American ladies, Mrs. Park and Miss
Willard, have been around in Sydney for a few
days. They are from Boston, and have been
travelling in various parts of the world for
two years. Their inquiries about our
Parliamentary institutions, womanhood suff-
rage, municipal matters and the like have
been eager and close. All information obtained
will be sent to institutions or organisations in
Boston for use in controversies there. The visitors
were shown over Parliament House by Mr. E. W.
O’Sullivan, and they had interviews with Mr.
Opposition-leader McGowen and Mr. Holman,
and were afterwards entertained by the Sergeant-
at-Arms.
By the Mooltan will travel to England a
strangely re-united pair. They could not agree
like the birds in their little nests, and many years
ago she left Melbourne for Sydney, and lived most
of the time with her mother. A few weeks ago her
grass-widower, jumping off a tram in the gloaming
knocked down a lady. He picked her up, and
whilst dusting her and apologising, saw that she
was his wife. That was how the reconciliation
began.
Mention of the Mooltan reminds that the vessel
brought back from foreign parts Sydney-siders
Mr. Henry Dangar, Major Horace Dangar, and
Miss Essie Davies.
Mr. A. Vincent Cape was married last week to
Miss Ruth Smith, of the Lance Smith family of
squatters. Father Doran, of Cowra, did the deed,
the Capes being, to a man, woman and child,
staunch Romanists. Scores of Smiths—.Tagos,
Lances, Wallaces, Claudes, et <il— watched the, to
them, unfamiliar ceremony which took place-on a
verandah of the residence at the bride’s ancestral
sheepery. The original Cape was one of Sydney’s
earliest and best schoolmasters. The Smiths are
mostly on the land in one capacity or another.
’An Australienne who has been studying
‘‘Fashion, the finger-post to fools” (it was a
sbured and badly-dressed man who said that) in
London, Paris and at restaurants like Maxim’s for
A: year past, is back here, and will probably use
her acquirements in Sydney. I saw her just now.
She was the latest thing in demmed outlines, or
should it be “no outline at all?” Foreign cor-
setieres had altered her figure to fit into “model”
rpbes that might be sheaths for a bamboo
wand. Her hemp-straw hat was so up-to-date
that I had to look under it to see her
face, and the rim of the brim of half of it
touched her shoulder. A brush or a broom
stood business end upright to the sky, as if wait-
ing to brush the cobwebs from the blue roof, while
something expensive-looking and limp in the way
of bird’s plumage trailed other-shoulderward.
Her gloves were white, with thick sewings of
green silk on the hacks, her patent-leathers were
topped with antelope, her coat and skirt showed
that an artist’s eye had guided the hand that held
the cutlery.
To be white-faced and crimson-lipped is the
correct thing in complexions in Paris, said
the returned native. But so it has been
for some years. The aristos of the Fau-
bourg St. Germain, and the demi-mondaines
of the public bals, are alike snow-white and
rose-red in these particulars. But it is sur-
prising the number of men who “make up”
their faces. They use rouge—the rouge their
women have discarded—on their cheeks. One
night, at Maxim's, the loveliest creature the
Australienne had ever seen strolled in. She was
naturally young and beautiful and the rest, and
wore elegant clothes and jewellery. Three men
followed. Anyone could see she was a daisy—a
regular marguerite. Why? Because she was
there in so remarkable a get-up. A coat and
skirt would have been the tiling if she were not
out to attract attention. The three men were
obviously saying the complimentary thing in
chorus. The dazzler glanced at the stranger,
and. noting her look of wide-eyed interest,
smiled amicably, drank to her health, and then
broke the glass, remarking to her escorts in her
own Gallic that “Mademoiselle’s admiration was
worth all theirs.” It was very good-natured of
the “creature” not to mistake the look of the other
girl for one of envy.
I went to “Cinderella” the other night and
started thinking of the altitudinous (you must be
weary of the “ more than common tall” of Rosa-
lind) young actresses who have played their way
hither from the land which has just scooped the
North Pole. One sky-scraper was Nance O'Neil.
Then there were Maud Jeffries, Ola Humphrey,
Margaret Anglin, and that Widow Something who
mummered so horribly with Julius Knight for a
season. She was handsome, and she didn’t need
to stand on an envelope to look over the roof of
twopence, but her acting was lamentable. Now
We have Meredith Meredro, who is also American
and good to gaze upon by reason of her face
and her stately proportions—the sort of girl
who can drop mullock down the kitchen chim-
ney of the gods without straining herself in
the upward reach. She would be a good
height for a crown prince, let alone for the
fairy potentate she illustrates. When she has
discarded the close-fitting silken wear of the
future Mr. Cinderella, and gotten herself (the
Americans use that veirb) into a black frock that
appears to button tightly from under her left ear
to her corresponding foot, she mentions this
running-to-palm-tree-stature habit of her country-
women. A black hat with wide velvet of a vivid
shade of red and an ermine muff—big enough to
carry a poodle as well as a pair of hands in—are
cheerful accessories after the fact of the black
frock. “I’m only the average height in my
country,” she says. “Five feet six or
seven is quite a usual stature.*' Per-
haps it’s the instinct of reaching out and
up—-to the higher life—that makes for growth.
The alliteratively named artiste is cross-examined
as to methods of skin-feeding and massage in New
York. She has the magnolia-petal quality of
face-epidermis that seems peculiar to the young-
womanhood of the U.S. There is no colorin the
cheeks, yet this clear pallor, as the American
novelists (who always use it in the young heroine’s
outfit) are careful to explain, is the hue of perfect
health ; and skin-feeding and massage have
nothing to do with the case.
This healthy, cheerful fairy is excusably proud
of the fact that the “ Cinderella ” panto, has
broken the record of runs by its seventeen weeks’
presence in Melbourne. One enthusiast of an
auditor was amongst those present on over 120
occasions. Another tore himself from all that
was dismal and witnessed the piece unto 70 times.
Also the lady frankly owns up to better treat-
ment here in the sense of being given a good time
than she experienced in England or America.
“All the mimes who come here and play for us
go back and pray for us—so to speak.” She
smiles, showing her very own teeth that ought
to be taken into account when she is making
terms with a manager for joyous rdles. Miss Mere-
dith fluffs informatively on the subject of bargain-
hunting in New York, and asserts that it is not
a more expensive place to live in than London or
Sydney. Her hotel-bills in the Flat-iron City
and here are about the same, but here she misses
the facilities for getting “shirt-waists.” Don’t the
American magazines show the shirt-waisted girl
with her unfuzzyand central parted hair to advan-
tage? Yes, they do. Which reminds her of an
incident of her first week in Sydney. A woman
wrote to her a rather pathetic note, explain-
ing that she was a fellow-countrywoman
in poor circumstances, and would be glad to do
some frockmaking or the like. As the Fairy
Prince party was just then yearning to have some
airy fairy silken fabric in her possession made into
shirt-waists, she gave the material to her visitor,
who, like the Waratah, has not since been sighted
or heard of. It is presumed that she capsized and
sank.
If I were a moneyed person, and of the class
that gives freak meals to freaks, I believe I would
enjoy giving a fish supper to the educated seals
at the Tivoli. I didn’t believe in love at first
sight until I saw those seals join the audience in
applauding one of their number for a “turn.”
The audience clapped its collective hands, and
the seals clapped their front flippers. Then one
of them flopped along—the seal doesn’t crawl or
walk, he flops—on a tight rope, with nose point-
ing ceilingward, and balancing an open umbrella
on that pointed organ. The balancing of goods
on the nose is their favorite amusement, and they
appear to enjoy their jobs as much as does the audi-
ence. A seal is a squab creature that none would
suspectof acapacitv for playing variousinstruments
in a band, going to bed at word of command and
snoring loudly, or playing cricket, or carrying fire-
arms. And his seal-skin coat fits his blubber so
oreaselesslv you’d think he was sheathed in a
directoire gown. Those Tivoli seals have a
personality of a' lovable When I Came
away I found myself absent-mindedly addressing
a girl with me as “mv dear seal.” I shall get a
seal at once, and keep him in the bathroom. The
rest of the household may go to Balmoral Beach
for its plunge.
Talking of freak parties: A young American
widow, with many millions of dollars and more
looks than were good for her, gave a sliding-down-
the-banisters-party on her coming-out (out of
mourning, of course). The widow is merry else-
where than in the musical comedy.
I have just been gazing at Amy Castles’latest
portrait, with its seraphically rapt expression.
She sits and gazes upward and holds a book on
her knee. “No literature,” I mused, “but that
of Thomas A’Kempis’ famous work could give
that expression of inward peace.” Then I turned
the portrait upside down, got a lens and read the
identity of the book. It was an obscure American
magazine. If it had been The Lone Hand,
now
Maggie Papakura, the well-known Maori guide,
who has been a sojourner here for some time,
returned to her native land last week to gather a
Maori company for displays at Clontarf. The
Balmain Ferry Co. will run the scheme, and the
.Papakura will run the Maori co. The pah that
was used at the M.L. Exhibition of some years ago
will be put up at Clontarf, and the visitors will
Jive there. Hakas, poi dances and other properties
peculiar to aboriginal Maoriland will enliven the
coming Sydney summer.
The “Jack and Jill” company, which intended,
by order of the Czar Ramaciotti, to side-step a
return to Sydney, is to be back here soon, by the
Same order.
A warbling girl who has the soprano gift has
(sent out white and gold requests “for the plea-
sure of your company at a Private Vocal Recital,
ht the Y.M.C.A. Hall in Bathurst-street, on
Friday, Sep. 24, at 8 p.m.” The new song-bird,
who has made a name for herself in West-
ralia. has been studying with Steffani
in Sydney for over a year. Her pretty
designation is Lucille Stuart Benstead, and she
was born at Alice Springs, in the middle of Aus-
tralia. Clara Butt, who gave her a trial stance,
is quoted on the white-and-gold leaflet in mauve
Ink: “ This young lady should bring honor to
herself and her native lahd.”
Nordica, the once famous singer, was married
five or six weeks ago for the third time. No. 1
spouse went up in a balloon and descended in the
wrong way. No. 2 the lady divorced for good and
Sufficient reasons. Her third is a New York
banker named Young.
, An acquaintance arises to say that the young
basso, Percy Graham, told me incorrectly wffien
he mentioned that Melba was married at Mackay,
in Queensland. She was married in Brisbane by
a Presbyterian parson at the Bellevue Hotel. “1
was staying there at the time,” proceeds the cor-
rector, “and saw the wedding alarms and ex-
cursions. Melba’s father and her aunt and a
sister were present for the occasion, and looked as
if they didn’t like it. That’s a bit over 26 years
ago, and Melba had been a governess at a station*
in Mackay. On that same station her bridegroom,
as is well known, was a jackerooi "’They made
Iheir home for a while at Mackay ; that’s how the
mistake occurred, no doubt. Melba wrote her
name opposite her birthday, the 19th of May, in
my birthday book.”
I have received a copy of the Knight Errant,
which is the organ of the Julius Knight Dramatic
Co., and is obtainable from that combination for
the price of four afternoon teas. It is edited by that
sound player, Aubrey Mallalieu. It contains verse,
jests, epigrams and other matter, grave and gay ;
also a number of palpably arch and telling allusions
understandable only by chronic grease-painters.
All, however, are put in the shade and rendered
negligible and of scant human interest by the
tremendous announcement which occurs in the
leading article. Julius, the Incomparable, pro-
poses shortly to essay the rdle of the melancholy
Dane. He intends to play Hamlet. He writes so
himself in the organ of his own dramatic co.
Nothing will stop him. He is resolved. It is as
momentous a bit of news as has burst on Poverty
Point for a decade, and should drive 1724
matinee girls wild with delighted anticipation.
The Norman Lindsay picture Exhibition opens
at Angus and Robertson’s library in Castlereagh-
street, on the day (Thursday) on which this
screed appears in public. I was accorded a
private view of the works on Monday, and
they are exquisite. Most cduntries dis-
cover their geniuses when they have gone
to Heaven ; Australia mostly does it when
they have gone to England. This country
is by no means the grave of the extra-
ordinary artistic talent which it produces—
merely the clearing-house, as it were. The
list of artists w*ho have fled these pastures
and settled elsewhere is indeed amazing,
and now there is danger that Lindsay, whom
overseas critics acclaim as one of the world’s
masters in black and white, may join their num-
ber. However, he stoutly maintains that he means
to return to Australia, where all his interests are,
and to remain away from it no longer than
is needful to place his Casanova illustra-
tions on the London and Paris markets.
His present show contains few of the Casa-
nova drawings, which are, of course, his best.
There are numberless small black-and-white
sketches of figures, animals and so forth, priced
at a guinea and upwards (this is the first Norman
Lindsay show at which the public has had a
chance to secure cheap examples of his work),
some passing fine water-color sketches, a number
of portraits of Sydney’s good-looking society
women, and the inevitable and always alluring
problem picture. The show will continue for a
week and then proceed to Melbourne.
By the way, Hugh McCrae’s “Silvarum Libri,”
which contains eight Norman Lindsay auto-litho-
graphs done on stone, is on the market. The
volume may be had from J. Lane Mullen, at
Challis House, Sydney, for a guinea, and it is
worth many such. The Dudley family, Yic.
Governor Carmichael, and other art-lovers are
subscribers to the edition, which is limited to 100
signed and numbered copies.
A Sydney publican is full of w onderment at the
astuteness of an imported serving damsel. She
had an inexplicable love of scrubbing, and used to be
in the bar with bucket and brush every morn-
ing by daylight. Her scrubbing-fury seemed
unnatural, and an occasional incoherence of speech
she ascribed to housemaid’s knee. One Sunday,
when she was out. her mistress inspected her
room and found 28 empty liquor bottles. Her
way was to lift a flask every morning and
drop it into the water in the scrubbing bucket.
Many of the imported girls seem to suffer from a
fixed delusion. They say they were told that-the
excess of the masculine element over the feminine
is something immense in Australia, and that they
would be married within three months of their
arrival. When asked who told them this they
reply “Everybody,” which is vague. It wasn't
the official immigration agents —it was just
“Everybody.” A male friend tells me a weird
story, by the way, of a still more disillusioned
Englishman who was wharf-lumping in Melbourne
some 25 years ago. “This is all the work I can
get here, ”he said. “ And my friends told me that
as soon as a man like me, that had been in the
Town Council in my own place in England,
reached the colony, he would be eagerly sought
after and made Premier.” Inquiry proved that
he came from some quiet little speck in the north
of England—Crockermouth or Thirsk or Tad-
caster.
Maoriland, among other abnormal growths, has
now produced a regiment of women warriors.
The Waikato Mounted Rifles (Corps No. 2) is the
institution’s baptismal designation. They paraded
the other day and were photographed. Some are
young and pretty ; others are decidedly of the
battle-axe order. The information is offered that
the force is “attached” to Corps No. 1, but it
isn’t the sort of attachment which ends in
marriage—only some military arrangement or
other. The corps is not taken very seriously in
war circles, and no one really depicts it as dying
in the last ditch with its gun in its hand and its
best hat trodden underfoot by furious Frank and
fiery Hun and such-like dubious characters.
One of the newest of our nobility materialised
by the side of her head gardener lately holding a
copy of the Amateur Gardener, as if it were
Holy Writ. “Paxton,” she said (or some such
name), “I wish you to read the 4 Monthly Notes ’
in this paper; you will find them most informa-
tive.” “Yes, madam,” quoth Paxton, “they
are good. I write them myself.”
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


saw
9MMM
mmm
i>:-
mm
£%<VA-£A
•/,•• it •// # --^r-r
Sssi
£L^
§
(if
r
/
s*
t&3
x
K
S’
v*t? J
jTV
X
«
f£i
3?
£v
m
Ss
i»,r. W
ad
,ojr j^cr
*vcH^-
visK2
X
• %
s^l
m
V
y ~
r r
V' sSwCii# 5
sk
[>• *.*/''-jAkM.' * X
Ws?/
s>m.
<W. /•'
IB?
v' '-.X
jg-SiSssase-'''
N.L
jfgaS
W.O
>i£-~
it-V'
5
r'V.w ..
C-O-B-R-A 15he. Boot PolisK!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Round the World
At boot-time due.
Hitches up
His team and drives,
Ev’ry morning
He arrives.
He has time
And cash to spare,
“COBRA” takes
Him ev’rywhere !
All the other
Sorts he loses 1
“COBRA” is the
Stuff HE uses I


That there is somethin? especially attractive in the new
art copper work is amply justified by its increasing
popularity and the variety of uses it is being put to. A
striking example is revealed in the handsome photo, frame
here illustrated, being constructed with exquisite regard
to the artistic effect, and no more beautiful frame could
be found than the above design. It is made of solid oak
with a mounting of real copper, beautifully embossed in
numerous floral designs ; size 6in. x sJin. It is impos-
sible to describe in mere words the attractive beauty of
these frames, but we understand that they can be pro-
cured from A. Saunders, the well-known jeweller of 809
George Street, Sydney, opposite railway station, who will
send them postage free to any address in Australia for the
sumof 4s. 6d. This is a new line just opened up, so you had
better write for one to-day ; you’ll be more than pleased
with it.*
it
mm
m
MM
JHC
W
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE
Gives Years of Hard
Service.
Does Not Kink or
Burst.
Specify “DUNLOP” Brand
if You Want the Best.
Obtainable ail Leading Stores.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Christchurch,N.Z.
Ensures.
satisfadio
DUNLOP
TYRES
For WEAR, SPEED and
SATISFACTION!
Last season they won all the
big Australian Long Distance
Road Races. This year if you
want to be “with the winners,”
see that your machine is fitted
with our Special Road Racing
Covers, which are acknowledged
by Riders and the Trade to be
absolutely the finest on our
roads. Sample section of cover
posted, with price list, on ap-
plication.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth. Brisbane* and
Christchurch. N.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 6, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
The City Newsboys’ Ball, an annual charity ’op
of much moment, “featured ” itself conspicuously
this season. Society dames had many sets on
hand—so many that it turned the affair practically
into a fancy dress carnival (on strictly important
lines, of course). Military men of scarlet pomp
added to the gaiety of colors, and hunters in pink
coats shocked correct folk for a moment, until the
ameliorating fact that the huntsmen belonged to
a set brought their red-togged presence into
polite focus again. There were two newspaper
sets—of such rivalry that they insisted on lancer-
ing at extreme ends of the ballroom. Mrs. Fred
Payne engineered one, and had used a general’s
eye for picking out dainty girls. Nan O’Hara
had the weight of the Age on her shoulders,
and the Tait chicken cheekily carried an Argus
in her tricorner hat. They were both in black
and white and silver. The Bulletin, a dainty
brunette, had black pompoms in her pink paper
three-cornered hat, and the gay pink of the paper
cover in a cute cape over her black and white
frock. The Herald and Table Talk helped fill
the set, and the men folk wandered about in an
embarrassed way with printer’s ink staining their
white gloves and pleated shirt-fronts. Miss
Incely, in a Punch dress, all pointed cap and
rosettes, made a crusade with various other
journals. Unie Russell flaunted a Royal Show
advt. on her Australasian pink frock.
A military set of vivandiere scarlet and white
had a veritable amazon in the lead. A man near-
ing 7ft. up into the ether led her out, and he gave
her little start in the race skyward. The Forrest
dame begot herself into powder about the hair and
daffodils about the staff—and all her set did like-
wise except the crow-like men, who insisted upon
being 1909 male beings in short unpowdered hair
and ugly tubular garments. A Harvest set,
which may have been intended as a com-
pliment to rural visitors, got in the way
with its unsophisticated poppies. Sheaf hats
and the Two Step don’t mingle worth a cent.
City newsboys, small atoms in the dress of the
British navy, were seriously drilled by Gunner
Cairns, of the Cerberus, and received the guber-
natorial party in solemn state. The Carmichael
lady swept up this warlike avenue in a marvellous
black gown ; it was all waves of shining jet that
broke at last into white tulle surf on the lady’s
shoulders. She trailed an orange scarf. To trail
a scarf is It—the ittest It of the present.
The affair was very military. Hoad, Campbell,
Stanley, Reay and other big guns of our army
sported scarlet and gold. The sporting Gov.
quite enjoyed the reception. The sets paraded
round the room (just like the cattle did t’other day
at the Show), and all the pretty girls bobbed a
curtsey to his beaming Ex., though a severe and
classical chaperone, skied in the balcony, vented her
jealousy by remarking thatit was notcorrect togive
a mere State Governor a curtsey. The matter
becomes appalling when Governors become so
numerous that their rank is thus criticised.
Premier Murray and his wife came along to dance in
the important lancers; so did Senator Best and his
lady. The Asches arrived after their show (they
are insatiable in social matters)—Mrs. Asche a
veritable Cleopatra in vivid scarlet, with gold
wheels weighing down her ears and gold
shoes on her feet. Manager Meyer brought his
wife, Miss Dorothy Grimston, in white, with
blue ingenue ribbons threaded in her hair. A
Madden maiden came early with the gubernatorial
push, and left early. Mrs. Geoff. Syme made a
streak of color with a peacock-colored sheath, and
sister Miss Garnett, in blue and white, sported
grown-up hair for the first time.
I saw the returned Stockfis there—that bachelor
of Holland who has been from these shores for
many moons. He created a stir in the simple,
unmercenary hearts of the society maidens, for
the gentleman has buckets of money. Mrs.
Artist M'Cubbin trailed faint blue toggery. Mrs.
Flinders-lane Felstead wore expensive green.
Last year this particular dance was over-run with
Fleet officers, and our men could only cadge what
dances the favored buttoned beauties didn’t use.
But these times are past, and this year the
girls rolled languishing eyes to the men
of this city. Miss Onians, who secretaries
the arduous work of the Street Boys’ Club, helped
considerably with the ball. The Naval Newsboys
(all about the size of three-ha’pence) were put on
guard to separate the most important fancy sets.
There was something of a boy-Casabianca-
burning-deok pose about these youngsters.
In a square they were placed—in a square
they would stand whatever happened. They
were glued to the floor like toy soldiers
—weighted down with serviceable big boots.
In the rush of the lancers they were almost
overwhelmed by fancy-dress, ornate drapery and
swishing trains. They scarcely moved—hut most
of the dancers went outside after and picked small
boys from the lace of their trains—like burrs.
All the week Show —“shee-o-w, show”—(to
misquote Mrs. Sans Gene) has been the keynote.
The Backbone of the country has mixed itself in a
most aggressive way with the rest of its anatomy.
The slow deliberation of the Backbone has
congested the traffic, stopped trams, and
even bailed up motor-cars. The post office
wealth of steps has proved a godsend for pave-
ment-weary sons of leisure, and the honeymooners
are in such battalions as to make glad the heart of
the man of statistics. The newly-weds are mak-
ing their town visit to get a real town photograph.
Upper Bourke-street has quite a French pro-
vincial flavor by reason of brides walking to the
photographers guileless of such extravagance as a
cab, but in full bridal gear—white shoes, veil, etc.
—and the accenting background of hubby s pink
ecstatic face framed in a new hard hat and a pale
blue tie.
The Show day (Thursday), when Governors and
such swell the crowd and make the entrance fee
double, was spent by that species mostly in
lunching and speeching. Carmichael spoke faceti-
ously, and strung together phrases that he had
culled from last year’s Show orations. He re-
marked especially on a phrase from Deakin,
that the future of the country was “wrapped
in its rural industries.” The thing was
so apt that the Excellent one chortled
“I’ve kept it for agricultural show's ever since.”
Prime Minister Deakin and Premier Murray
tried their durnedest to keep to peaceable rural
topics, but were just held back by force from
snapping and snarling in political jargon. Allan
Currie was getting on to a good wicket
when he lost his notes, floundered in
the centre of a sentence, and dropped
out in a hopeless funk. Tom Cumming
could not be found to speak for the Judges, so
Johnstone, of military methods and horsey lore,
spoke instead. This stretched into something
like two hours, while the wives of the spouters
tried not to look bored. The Carmichael lady
was in black, and the Forrest dame sported a
shriek of purple feather such as no self-respecting
ostrich would countenance on its own. The Gaud
Mayoress, in blue, and a few more befeathered
lady mortals made up the imposing party which
went on to watch the more congenial jumping—
especially the cute little polo ponies being put to
the high jump.
I suppose the most modern thing on exhibition
was a model (quarter size) of the W ilbur Wright air-
ship. It was put in by the Continental Tyre people.
It worked hard, and would have flown away only
that it was tethered. It was a fascinating thing
and stood for the simplicity of genius.
Mrs. L. Daniel left by the Marmora for Eng-
land on August 31. The bronze-haired lady was
one of the beautiful Morphy sisters, and she goes
to stay with another of them—Florence, now
Countess of Darnley, who lives in baronial halls,
with moats and armorial bearings and ghostly
ancestors all over the place.
That important paper baronet, Albert Spicer,
with Mrs. Spicer and the Spicer family, have
made pompous progress through the city. Gates,
the Spicer paper-man-in-chief for Australasia,
looks as if one more banquet would kill him. The
people with the fragrant name start for Banana-
land in their own special hired railway car. It’s
a weighty thing to have so many tons of paper on
one’s mind.
An event of interest to happen shortly is the
executors’ sale of dead Surgeon Fitzgerald’s col-
lection of paintings. The Gemmell-Tuckett
people conduct the business. Fitzgerald owned
Lefebre’s “Chloe” (original), supposed to be the
most beautiful study of the nude among
moderns. Once during his lifetime old Fitz
loaned the precious thing to our National Gallery.
There was an outburst from the mouth that is
in the head which is covered by the poke bonnet
of Mrs. Grundy. To that lady beauty of any kind
is immoral, and the glory of the nude is a thing to
shudder at. The generous surgeon took his trea-
sure back tenderly and with much indignation,
and, so far as is known, it has been in the big,
grey house in Lonsdale-street ever since. Chloe
(a painting that will probably be hunted for by
some of the famous galleries of the world) was only
one of the treasures in Fitzgerald’s collection, and
moneyed art lovers are keen on the scent of the
auction.
An enterprising young lady, Miss Ethel God-
dard, who is hugged closely to the capacious bosom
of the Austral Salon, threatens a dramatic recital
in the Masonic Hall next Saturday. The dramatic
speechifying will be done in partnership with
Mr. George Morgan, and the Strolling Flayers’
orchestra will form a musical background, so to
speak.
Amy Castles is working for her living. Her
recent visible means of support have been seven
concerts in little more than a week, and Amy’s
voice has constituted a large section of the pro-
gramme in each case. Also she has given a gener-
ous measure of encore which was not on the pro-
gramme. She is young to carry such a strain.
Belated sunshine has brought out a new force
in her voice which is full of surprises.
Her houses have been phenomenal. No
foreign artist of whom I have heard has had such
a whole-hearted rush, and not even Melba or
Crossley had more lavish support. Last week the
poor little lady was singing and smiling over the
hideous irritation of toothache with abscess
attached. That was how things were in public ;
in the dressing-room an irate damsel was striding
up and down with a vicious stamp of silver shoes,
and clamoring at an unheeding Fate with the
question : “ Why must I work for my living?”
With a long programme before her and a dentist
waiting to attack her after the performance,
things looked gloomy. Yet the House did not see
a cloud —nothing but the most sweetly good-
tempered face ever moulded on a maiden. The
week included a Ballarat concert. There was a
wild dash there, with the tooth as part of the
luggage ; a reception and other troublesome frill,
with the tooth for company; then the concert,
with the tooth on the platform j and a scurry back
to Melbourne in a train that was too slow to
leave the tooth behind. And in Melbourne there
were more dentist, more concert, and more tooth.
It looks like overworking the flesh. An unwise
management almost killed Amy Castles in her
most youthful singing days by breaking the Act to
Prevent the Sweating of Nightingales, and rush-
ing her over miles of continent, on which jour-
neys she sang at every crossroad and bush hamlet.
“The Village Priest,” at the Princess’s, with
Titheradge back in his old part, made a break in
the long, whirling string of opera-bouffe and pan-
tomime. The play was put in a new-old guise by
being dressed beautifully and accurately in 17th
century clothing and backgrounding. Dorothy
Grimston’s Comtesse lies upon a regal gold and
brocade couch, built in the time of the Louis the
Blankth, and her clinging green satin gown
has a room hung with peach-colored silk for
background, and Armand (Cyril McKay), in
plum-colored piecings, as a contrast. Out-
doors the dame wears Empire gowns all
clinging and hung with filmy scarves, and a dainty
lace cap snoods her hair under a rose-color hat.
Black ninon scarves, subduing her rose-color
gown, supply a tenderly-sad frocking for the
gloomy last act. Mrs. Waller’s Jeanne plays
throughout in a Puritan grey-blue frock and big
brown eyes.
Mrs. Brough was in the house with her new
husband. Her dress was grey and magnificent,
and trained with unnecessary silken yards.
Mrs. Brough is saying farewells—not stagey
ones—to Melbourne. She departs within a week
—she and her new husband —for Engleland, as
Wilson Barrett used to call it—the place Alfred
came from.
It looks as if Titheradge intended spending the
rest of his days in Australia. He is making a
garden on North Head. Tith says there
never was land where so many natural
specimens of botanical valuables grew to
the acre. He is keeping a space in its
natural glory just to grub round and
worship and explore for many years.
Another world-wide botanist —Carl Bogue Luff-
mann—was wont to rave about North Head. He
would tramp that wild country for hours, and
come back to the city gloating over an armful of
weeds. Titheradge says he has made four gardens
in his life —made them with years of toil and
whole-heartedness —only to leave the perfect tilings
to strangers. This will be his fifth, and he hopes
to possess it in its fulness. Australia echoes the
hope.
The Women’s Hospital, where so many unwel-
come little strange;s come from, is to be substan-
tially benefited by the opening of the new West’s
Pictures building next week. The management
of West’s has presented the W.H. committee
with 1000 tickets for the “house-warming” per-
formance, and some of Melbourne’s most expen-
sive people are arranging flickergraph parties for
the occasion. A long evening with pictures will
be a novel experience for many Toorakians, who
have hitherto restricted themselves to homce-
pathic doses of the entertainment that happens
in the gloom. After keeping their eyes fixed on
the screen for an hour at a stretch, they will feel
the Flicker germ stirring in tlieir blood, and get
a notion of why so many thousands of their fellow
mortals have acquired a craving for films. The
prevailing darkness is said to have a lot to do
with it. Couples who would merely like to hold
hands at the theatre are able to grasp the oppor-
tunity at a picture show. The silent eloquence
of beating hearts fills the air. Waves of sym-
pathy flow from Jim and Cis in the sixpenny
seats to Algy and Gwen in the reserved stalls,
and one touch of nature makes the whole audience
kin.
Claviola recitals —Allan’s gave another of them
at the Masonic last Friday afternoon —set one
wondering why the musical’phones are not of tener
exploited at invitation concerts in the big halls.
The Claviola matinees must be intended to adver-
tise the latest “ music rolls” rather than to push
the sale of the machine that plays the piano.
People possessed of ’olas go to hear the new
records. A ’phone recital attracts probable
buyers of the instrument as well as numbers
who have already got it but are selecting some
fresh pieces for it to play. And for such as don’t
think of buying anything it is a pleasant means
of passing half an hour before tea time. One can
suddenly get up and walk from a ’phone perform-
ance without any compunction. The machine
takes no notice and the whirling disc careth not.
MissFrederika Meyer, who gave an elocutionary
recital at the Austral Salon way back in the time
before the wet weather set in, is going to be “ pro-
duced” on a more elaborate scale at one of the
Collins-street halls early in October.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The Derby had to be postponed from Saturday till
Wednesday, because it wasn’t thought advisable to turn
it into a swimming race. Morphettville, which is along-
side the Sturt, was a flowing river, and the totes and
stands were islands in a watery waste. The course was
hung out to dry, however, and portions of it were visible
by YVednesday. The public then came along in modera-
tion, furred, coated and umbrella-ed; for the water-
pot gentleman still had designs on our millinery. The
one note of joy was struck over the brand-new edition of
the woman’s tote. It is three times its former size, and
the bloodshed at the windows will now be considerably
less. There were three dividends during the day to make
your hair curl; but the Government House people
weren’t there to collect any of them, as her Ex., a
daughter and an aide had previously booked themselves
to go and buy a few things they didn’t want at a f§te at
Magill.
The “ Appendreena” Amateurs gave a performance of
Haddon Chambers’ “ The Idler,” at the YValkerville Hall
the other eve, and 40 or so electric cars, crammed to the
footrails with frilly guests, shot out to it. The girly lead
was taken this time by Kathleen Sutherland, who wore
five or six different and decorative chiffons, and looked
very charming. She was a rather too calm and collected
heroine, however. Muriel Craigie made a delightful old
lady, but her talents were concealed beneath a small part.
Sundry clever men shed light on the performance, includ-
ing Wilfred Neill, whose Idler was an artistic study, and
A. S. Lewis, who was the American gentleman.
The YVillie Horns’ eldest daughter, Penelope, was mar-
ried off on August 28, at Wimbledon, that portion of the
British speck where the family has bought an ancestral
acre. The bridegroom’s full name is Joseph Anthony
Douglas Bell, and he is a portion of the 96th Berar In-
fantry of the Indian Army. And owing to the condensed
habits of the cable, that is nearly all we know about the
matter at present.
Brewster Jones, who took an Elder Scholarship to the
Bleak Country some years ago, and has since been work-
ing hard on the pianofortes of Britain, is coming back
hurriedly to South Aus. by the Suevic. His unexpected
return is based on a solemn medical warning to get away
home out of the fogs. Meantime a French firm of piano-
builders has obligingly thrust a fine instrument upon
him, and later oil he is to play on it to the Kangaroo,
partly in the hope that the Kangaroo will change his
popular brand of piano.
As we feel it our solemn duty to export something in
the musical line every year, fiddler Willie Cade is being
got ready for a passage to Europe. He is a gifted lad
with a soulful fiddle and musical hair, and the usual
complimentary concert will happen during the month.
The Tourist Bureau is feeling happy. Foster Fraser
not only visited it, but wrote in its autograph book—
Adelaide is one of the most beautiful cities I have ever
seen.” And so it is. Of course we haven’t got a Har-
bor ; but we’ve got a lovely background of wooded hills,
and we’ve got the floweriest, shrubbiest suburbs from
here to the place where Dr. Cook has been.
One of our country papers, the Bordkr Watch, has
just fixed up journalist Beaumont Smith for life. You
know it was cabled the other day that, while in London
with Bilanderson, he had engaged Muriel Matters, elocu-
tionist and suffragette, to come to Australia and lecture.
Evidently the Watch looked hurriedly at the printed re-
mark, saw something with a man and a girl and an en-
gagement in it, and promptly published the couple under
the heading “Matrimonial.”
The Lund liner Geelong returned several citizens to us.
One was Dr. Herbert Shorney, who has been repairing
John Bull and his family for five years, part of the time
as house surgeon of Middlesex Hospital, and other parts
at the Throat Hospital and the Royal Ophthalmic Hospital,
Westminster. He is staying at Medindie until he finally
decides whether he will go over and patch up Sydney, or
stay here and mend Adelaide.
Albert Spicer, President of London Chamber of Com-
merce, and his wife and damsel were here for a day or
two last week, getting welcomed. Our Chamber of Com-
merce clasped them by the hand, and a branch of a mis-
sionary society, of which Mr. Spicer holds the purse
strings, told them it was rejoiced to see them. Their
Excellencies went one better, and asked them to dinner ;
and the Chief Justice Ways duplicated this attention.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
The low estate to which the British Free-
trade working man, once the aristocrat of the
industrial world, has fallen was vividly revealed
the other day at the International Labor Con-
ference at Paris. There an English delegate pro-
mised that the British Labor party would endeavor
to secure an enlargement of the Foreign Enlist-
ment Act so that it could be used to prevent the
enlistment of the British workman for service as a
cheap blackleg and strike-breaker on the Continent
of Europe.
The poor old. Ma State, which is steered on
i e g a i wa y by Gregory Wade, has “got
nothi in g ome time in the middling long
&
ago the Sal. Army was left a bit of land on one
side of Deewhy Lagoon, near Manly, and a bit on
the other. If the lagoon is legally sea, then it
belongs to the State, but if it is a mere temporary
wetness on the land it belongs to the Sal. Army,
a]on with its shores . i t j s a shallow bit of water
& ,
with tadpoles and beer-bottles in it, and a place of
little account, but there was a fearsome row over it.
According to some witnesses it was common
en hto take sun baths in the lagoon, while
bikeraoes were frequent there. Expertsproduced
£*& £ in g 23
tofind . tfa £ d places outs ide Bourke, so
they concluded the lagoon was a bit of the main
u £ Witnesses for the other side said they
didn , fc bathe jn Deewhy because they couldn’t
swim, but they had most exciting boat races
, Experts also produced decayed fish, marked
„ and r P emarked that it was strange
«?, «"!> specitain a lagaon-they were gene,
, . T v u •*. . u i •*.
found in Deewhy it must be a bit of the open
this about last Easter, and Justice
declared Deewhy to be legally
So the Sal. Army gets the property, and
u „»„£.ww
s e 1 or s


U 6
L
ANN*
Pure Herbal Skin Soap.
Important Analyses,
F. H. MOLESWORTH, F.C.S., F.G.S., Mem. Soc. Chem. Ind. London; Public Analyst and Assayer;
Late Lecturer in Chemistry S.A. Government and Technical College, Sydney.
Central Analytical and Assay Office, Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, 21st September, 1908.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., 199 Clarence Street, Sydney. Gentlemen,—l have made a careful analysis of a sample of “ Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap,” which I find to be composed of
vegetable oils and fats, saponified with pure alkali. It contains no free alkali, nor any substance deleterious to the most delicate skin. The perfume and color are both of natural and harmless plant origin,
neither having any trace of animal or poisonous materials. Having powerful but non-poisonous antiseptics thoroughly Incorporated in the process of manufacture, this soap possesses healing. properties
which will remove diseases of the skin and restore it to a healthy condition. It is a beautifully finished article, comparing favorably with similar imported soaps, and if used regularly as an adjunct of the
toilet, it will assist in keeping the body in health, and will have a pleasing, soothing effect on the skin. ‘‘Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap” will NOT promote the growth of hair upon the face, or
anywhere else upon the human body where hair does not grow naturally Yours faithfully, F. H. MOLESWORTH, F.C.S., F.G.S., M.S.C.I. London, Public Analyst and Assayer.
Chemical and Assay Laboratory, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney, 7th July, 1908.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Sydney. Gentlemen,—We have analysed a sample of “ Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap,” and find it to be a well manufactured article, containing no free alkali, or
any injurious substance. It is made from pure vegetable oils, and contains a non-poisonous but powerful antiseptic. This soap has nothing in it that can possibly injure the skin, it has strong curative
properties, and will be also suitable as a dentifrice. There is nothing in “ Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap ” to Injure the hair in any way, or to cause hair to grow on the face or on any part of the body
where hair does not normally grow. Yours faithfully, DIXON & BYRN, F.1.C., F.C.S., Analyists under the Public Health Act, and Assayers.
Analytical Laboratory, Lincoln Inn Chambers, 38 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, 16/4/’O9.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., 199 Clarence Street, Sydney. Gentlemen,—l have made an analysis of a sample of “Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap,” with the result that 1 find no excess of
moisture, and it does not contain any free alkali, or any injurious substance. It has In my opinion been prepared from carefully selected and pure ingredients. The soap does not contain any substance
which can possibly injure the skin, and it is suitable for use as a dentifrice; it has a very delicate and fragrant aroma, and contains a non-poisonous antiseptic. It should, therefore, prove eminently
useful for toilet and curative purposes. Yours faithfully, (Signed) JAMES MAYNE, Public Analyst under Health Act; Late Analyst City Council, Sydney ; Late Examiner in Chemistry, Pharmacy Board.
ACME OF PERFECTION.
AS a SKIN FOOD. SHAVING SOAP and
TOILET PREPARATION, KUGEL-
MANN’S PURE HERBAL SKIN
SOAP is fast achieving a position before
all others as the Soap for special treatment for the
complexion and skin, as well as for medical,
hygienic, shaving and general toilet purposes.
The main reason for this unique assumption of
public favor is that KUGELMANN’S HERBAL
SKIN SOAP is not merely an article of ordinary
commercial manufacture, but is carefully pre-
pared under the direction and from the prescrip-
tion of Australia’s Leading Consulting Herbal
Practitioner, so as to really constitute a part of
his treatment. In short, two great principles
form the solid base of this Herbal Soap :
1. That ABSOLUTE PURITY is essential in
any article of constant application to that delicate,
vital organ, the Skin.
2. That soap affords one of the readiest mediums
for the medical treatment of the human body.
The HERBAL SKIN SOAP in its present
form represents the fruit of nearly forty years’
experience in the use and prescription of beneficent
herbs for the cure of Australian maladies, and,
therefore, is, better adapted to the climatic and
other conditions of Australian life than any
imported soap.
For the Prevention qf Redness and Skin Irrita-
tion of all kinds, the cure of Eczema, Tetter,
Ringworm, Shingles, Blotches, Pimples and
Freckles; the prevention and cure of Dandruff,
fostering a stimulating effect upon the growth of
the. Hair, stopping falling-out, inducing growth,
and making it soft and glossy. As a dentifrice, it
arrests decay and produces a dazzling brilliance.
For Shaving, is of Unique Benefit, owing to its
production of a rich, lasting and creamy lather, and
the exercise of soothing and hygienic, functions
upon the skin.
In the nursery its beneficent effects upon the
tender skin of infancy obviates the use of powder,
etc., the child’s skin being always kept cool and
smooth by its use.
“ Beauty’s Aid ” is the well-earned title of this
Herbal Skin Soap, because, in a healthy and per-
manent manner, it enhances natural beauties as
no mere nostrum can ever hope to do. In every
department of the toilet, and for every medicinal
or hygienic purpose for which soap can be used,
this soap has proved superior to any other soap.
The Greatness of the Herbal Skin Soap is the
greatness of Nature. It is a rare combination of
natural organic remedies culled from the grand
and simple provision of Mother Earth, whose
vegetable kingdom contains in abundance the only
medicines suited for assimilation by mankind.
The great appreciation of Kugelmann’s pure
Herbal Skin Soap is indicated by the following
selection of testimonials, which are portion of those
we are daily receiving from every part of Australia:
FOR HEALING.
39 Phillip Street, Sydney, March 20th, 1909.
Messrs. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l wish to say that, after an experience of
years, I have found Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap to
have the greatest healing effect. It will take a sting from
a burn in a few minutes, and for chapped hands and face
it is unequalled. Our family would not be without it ;
my daughters all use it for. the hair, and we have also
found that, used instead of tooth powder, it cleanses the
teeth beautifully, and leaves a sweet, fresh taste in the
mouth.- Yours faithfully (Signed), M. M. Bartholomew.
Dungay Creek, Tweed River, N.S.W.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney'.
Gentlemen,—Dairymen should never be without your
Herbal Skin Soap. In my long experience I have never
seen its equal in the treatment of “Milk Rot,” “Sore
Teats,” and other diseases to which cattle are subjected.
—(Signed) F. J. Franks.
38 Cambridge Street, Paddington, 21st April, 1909.
H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —There is no soap I have yet tried that has
half as much softening and refining influence on the skin
as Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap. In cold and
damp weather my skin shows a disposition to get harsh,
sore and chapped, but a gentle laving with your soap
entirely removes these defects, and makes the skin
smooth and supple. Washing with this soap also absc-
lutelv prevents any roughness and chapping. However
much the cold westerly blow my skin is quite unaffected,
if I have first washed it with Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.—(Signed) Yours truly, E. Williams.
Eurobin, Victoria.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, — I always, use your Herbal Skin Soap for
shaving. It has in every way a splendid effect upon the
skin. I have recommended it to several sufferers from
skin disease in this district, and they all speak very highly
of it. I have used over a dozen boxes, and will shortly' be
sending for a fresh supply. (Signed) George C. Weston.
JW&S& H , M
m
KL
'
■
sa ,
K
* i. ®
H
Wi-s
: - 1 1 ’1: i
>
#
A\ - ■■
K-
■
4
sh
•
Kitgelmann 1 s Soap for her Hair and her Baby.
A Wise Mother who uses
FOR SKIN, HAIR and SHAVING.
Park Street, Sydney, 17th April, 1909.
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Having used Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap
for many months for shaving purposes, I am thoroughly
convinced I can do no better. It is refreshing and invig-
orating to the skin, which it leaves smooth and supple,
which other shaving soaps certainly do not. —Yours faith-
fully, (Signed) F. McNulty.
6 Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
22nd April, 1909.
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l have used shaving soap in Europe,
America and other portions of the globe, but have come
across no soap equal to yours. It makes a stiff creamy
lather, enabling the razor to thoroughly do its work ; and
it leaves the skin perfectly smooth after the shaving is
over. This is a great advantage, as other soaps leave a
sort of unpleasant stiffness of the skin, which takes some
little time to wear off.—Yours truly, (Signed) F. E. Smith.
91 Station Street, Newtown, Sydney, April 24th, 1909.
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—Having used your Herbal Skin Soap for
the last twelve (12) years, for hair, skin and teeth, I can
speak of it as one “having authority.” Your “Aus-
tralian production ” is an exquisite soap, and I wish it
the success in New South Wales that it deserves.—l am,
Gentlemen, yours truly, (Signed) M. A. Mahony.
65 Lee Street, North Carlton, Victoria.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —I have been using your Herbal Skin Soap
for all purposes (toilet, dentifrice, head wash and shav-
ing) for 12 months, and it is the finest soap I have ever
used. lam so enthusiastic about it that I have bought
boxes of the Herbal Skin Soap as presents for friends,
who, I may say, have since become your regular patrons.
For old people with delicate skin or blotches, such as
they are subject to, this soap is especially soothing,
being an infallible cure for these troubles.—(Signed)
J. F. W. Lennox.
Aubigney, via Oakey, Queensland.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in acknowledging'
the benefits our family has derived from your Herbal
Skin Soap. It has been our only family soap for the past
three years for the skin, and we have found it in every
way splendid.—(Signed) Catherine Hartigan.
Billinudgel, North Coast, April 2nd, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sirs, —I have used your Herbal Skin Soap continuously
for a period of over two years. During; that time I have
given it an exhaustive trial, and can now faithfully recom-
mend it to all who are in quest of a really good soap. For
the Skin and Hair it stands unrivalled, while for shaving it
completely eclipses all other soaps on the market. My
husband lias tried all the best of the advertised shaving
soaps, but says your soap is absolutely without parallel.
It preserves an excellent lather, and ensures a delightful
shave. We will never be without it, and will never tire
of recommending it to our friends.—(Signed) Mrs. Jas.
Cullen.
PRIMA DONNAS and ACTRESSES
DECLARE IT UNSURPASSED.
The Misses Spears,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Masseuses, and Manicurists.
50 Castlereagh Street, opposite Hotel Australia,
Sydney', 22nd April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugf.lmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—We are delighted with Kugelmann’s Pure
Herbal Skin Soap. Situated as our establishment is
immediately opposite the Australia Hotel, Sydney, we
frequently receive visits from prima donnas, leading
actresses, etc., who have toured the world, and they', one
and all, declare that your soap has a softening, refresh-
ing and invigorating effect upon the skin, which they
have failed to find in the finest soaps of London, Paris, or
New York.—Yours very faithfully, (Signed) M. G. Spears.
AS A SKIN TONIC.
102 Little Simmonds Street, Newtown, Sydney,
27th April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I have never yet met with a soap to equal
your Herbal Skin Soap for bathing purposes. It produces
a rich, creamy lather without any trouble, and gives one
a feeling of general lightness and freshness, w hich must
be experienced to be properly appreciated. It is so re-
freshing that you feel as though you had taken a tonic. —
Faithfully yours, (Signed) Mrs. H. Griffiths.
91 Wells Street, Newtown, Sydney, 25th April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann &Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sirs,—l am very pleased to give you a testimonial to
the virtue of Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap, and to the
very excellent softening effect it has upon the skin. Most
soaps leave the skin harsh, and instead of smoothing
away roughness and soreness seem to increase these
effects. Your soap, lunvever, acts in the contrary
direction, and makes the skin soft, silky and elastic to
the touch.—Yours very truly, (Signed) Mrs. A. L. Harris.
Gladstone Road, Mile End, S.A.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—l am delighted with your Herbal Skin
Soap, which is the best I have ever used. (Signed)
A. Rossi.
FOR BABIES and CHILDREN
45 Simmonds Street, Newtown, Sydney, 27th April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l have used your soap for washing my
children’s hair. It has an excellent effect upon their
hair, making it beautifully bright and clean. It also has
the effect of making the children’s hair silky to the touch,
and gives it a silky lustre also. All of which is so different
to ordinary soaps, which make the hair dry and brittle
and cause it to break off in short lengths.—Yours
obediently, (Signed) Mrs. N. McCabe.
Waterview Street, Balmain, Sydney, 22nd April, 1909.
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—All mothers should use Kugelmann’s Pure
Herbal Skin Soap for their babies, as it entirely keeps
away soreness. Before I started to use Kugelmann’s
Herbal Skin Soap, my baby used to get sore, notwith-
standing my Using boracic ointment, etc.; but since I
have used vour soap to wash the baby there has never
been the slightest sign of soreness. Other soap has not
the same curative effect upon my baby’s skin as your
soap has, but often produced soreness instead of keeping
it away.—(Signed) Bella Mackay.
172 Darley Street, Newtown, Sydney, 27th April, 1909.
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sirs, —So far I have tried your soap only for my chil-
dren, and for this it is quite unequalled. It cleanses
their hair, making it soft, bright, and glossy, and any
little sore or pimple disappears shortly after the child has
been lathered with the Herbal Skin Soap. It may be
fancy, but to me it seems the children are brighter and
fresher after Kugelmann’s Skin Soap than after having
been washed with cheaper and coarser soaps.—Faithfully
yours, (Signed) Mrs. E. Walsiiaw.
59 Camden Street, Newtown, Sydney.
• 27th April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann &Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sirs,— Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap made the scalp
of my children’s heads splendidly white and their hair
bright and glossy. It is the first soap which has proved
itself entirely satisfactory for this purpose. Another
good point in its favor is that it does not make the
children’s eyes smart half as much as do other soaps.—
Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. E. Hurst.
Buy in Sydney from Lassetter's, George Street; Sweet Bros., Newtown ; Mick Simmons ; Marcus Clark & Co. ;
Winn fSt Co., Redfern; W. Buckingham, Oxford Street; Washington Soul & Co., and all up-to-date Houses .
IF NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY, WILL BE POSTED BY THE PROPRIETORS ON RECEIPT OF POSTAL NOTE FOR 2/6.
Free Sample sent
on receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
Obtainable also at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers throughout Australasia in boxes of three tablets.
SOLE
PROPRIETORS
H. E. KUGELMANN ®. CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St. f Melbourne; 199 Clarence St., Sydney; and at Adelaide and Brisbane.


BUYING
BY
MAIL.
No matter where you live you can
rely on our up-to-date Mail Order De-
partment to serve you promptly and
satisfactorily, without the expense ot a
trip to the city.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE, FREE.
Write to-day for a copy of our 304-page Illustrated Catalogue. It will
help you in making your selections. Sent, Post Free, to Any Address.
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, with
Fork, Crystal Glass Jar.
17 Id-
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/.
6
BBSS
>;•-
I*E£3
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Rule Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 quality, Hand-engraved, in
Silk-lined Case.
17/0
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOUVENIR EMU EGG STAND, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Hand-carved, Ebonised Wood
Base, height lOAin.
20/
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 25/, 30/, 40/, 50/.
OUR SYSTEM OF FREE CARRIAGE ON GOODS
To any part of the country means a big saving to you. With the excep-
tion of Clocks and Chinaware, we send all goods Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUR-O’CLOCK CAKE FORKS, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, Full Size, m
Silk-lined Case.
13/6
Other Styles, 6/0, 10/6, 12/C, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure Sil-
ver-plated, Hand - engraved,
Highly Burnished.
15/6-
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
3READ FORK, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel
lilver, real Ivory
dandles; 9in long.
7/0- ~e
Ither Styles, 4/0,
i/6, 8/6, 10/0.
A. SAUNDERS . , _
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Richly
Embossed, Highlv Burned Carved Feet.
45/-
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 55/, 00/, TO/.
v\
v-CV
m
A. SAUNDERS.
CUTLERY CANTEEN, comprising Meat Carvers, Knife,
Fork, and Steel, i-dozen Finest Sheffield Steel, Xylonite
Handles, in Velvet-lined Case.
4:*y / ~
Other Styles, in Polished Oak Cases, 60/, 65/, 70/,
80/ to £25.
1
r/'C ■$/
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASK El', i i,iv s.ivt . . .uf.ed, Handsomely
Engraved, Cradle Design, Silk-lined, 9in high.
£2.
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
A. SAUNDERG.
FRUIT or SALAD DISH, Pure Silver,-plated Nickel
Silver, Rainbow Glass Bowl, Nicely Finished.
25/-
Other Styles, 12/6, 17/6, 20/, £5/.
mggs
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIVES, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Hand-engraved, in Silk-lined Morocco Case.
S/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 20/, 22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
NUT
CRACKERS,
Pure Silver-
plated Nickel
Silver, Fluted
Handles.
A! o-
Other Styles,
1/6, 4/6, 5/6,
7/6.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS. Pure Silver-plated, Gilt
China Bowl. Handsome Floral Design, with Handles,
Strongly Finished.
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.. 35/, 40'. -> A ' 00/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed and Burnished.
10/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 13/6, IT/6, 20/,
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Gilt-
lined, Handsomely Finished.
35/
A. sattxtders
CAKE or DESSERT KNIVES and FORKS, in Case,
Pure Silver-Dinted. Engraved Blades, Xylonite Handles,
in Silk-lined Oak Case.
35/
With Pure Silver-nlated Handles, 30/.
Other Styles, -02, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5.
SOUP and BREAKFAST DISH, A 1 Quality,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, to hold 2 pints, with
Handles and Silver-plat, d Fitting's.
£4l O O
Handsomely Embossed, to hold 3 pints, £B/8/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BUTTER-DISH, Pure Silver
plated Mounts, Porcelain China Lin
in" Afiqf
7 Id-
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
BUTTER-DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Pure Crystal
Cut Glass.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
POCKET CORKSCREW, Nickel Silver, Best Sheffield
Make.
2/-
Ordinary Styles, !/> 1/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Handsomely Embossed and Orna-
mented, Pure Sil.-plated, Silk-lined, and Well Finished.
17/6.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 18/6, 20/, 25/, 30/, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MEAT CARVERS, 3 Pieces, Buckhorn Handles, comprising Carving Knife, Fork, and Steel,
Silver Steel, Hand-forged Blade, in Velvet-lined Case.
27/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, to £3/10/.
WE MAKE A SPECIALITY OF PRESENTATION CUTLERY CANTEENS.
Sheffield
JAM SPOON, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Richly Embossed.
3/6-
Other Styles, 2/, 2/6, 3/, 3/6, 4/, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
with Detachable Handle, making 2 Separate Dishes.
30/
Other Styles, 50/, 60/, 65/, 70/, 80/, 90/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE NEW RAILWAY STATION.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


. >
ANDREW McGEE
SMOKE McGEE’S CLUB MIXTURE,
Cool and sweet smoking and free from Latakia. Its
delightful aromatic flavor pleases all palates, and a
few‘‘acquaintance whiffs ” will quickly ripen into a
lifelong friendship.
7s. 6d. per lb., posted Bs. 3d.; 21b. tins, 16s.
posted ; 31b. tins, £1 2s. 3d. posted. Samples
posted free for Is. 3d.
Sydney's Leading Tobacconist & Gentlemen's Hairdresser.
5 & 7 Castlereagh Street, cr. Hunter Street, Sydney.
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAY.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Buakkei.),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
OSTRICH PLUHES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
“I POST FREE
Iw/ ID to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Tins Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
An Unequalled Nerve and Brain Food
PLASMON
Contains
The Organic Salts and Phosphorus of Milk
in a natural sufficiency without the need of any
artificial addition of phosphates.
Kandy, Ceylon.
I have used Plasmon Cocoa and Biscuits in Ceylon, and have found both very
nourishing and pleasant to the taste, and can highly recommend them, especially
to people who are not very strong. I always like to have Plasmon Biscuits
in the house.
Plasmon Is Used by the Royal Family,
and has received the commendation and support: of Medical
Men, Explorers and Athletes in every part of the Globe.
\s
aaemon
TRADE mark.
PLASMON
is the Best Pant of Nature’s Best Food—Milk, and added
to food increases the nutritive value enormously. LANChT.
PLASMON, PLASMON GOGOA, PLASMON CHOCOLATE,
PLASMON BISCUITS, ETC. Of all Chemists, Grocers and Stores.
PLASMON, Ltd., London. Australian Depot— s & 7 Barrack St., Sydney.
CINEMATOGRAPH SUPPLIES
for the Showman.
©®
©
ffl
a!
>■-
Q)
G>
Q)
0®
We are Cinematograph Experts, and we
carry the largest and most varied stock
of up-to-date machines, apparatus and
accessories in the State.
No matter WHAT you want in this line
we can supply you promptly, and at
reasonable prices.
We have a new list of specially-priced
films on all subjects—OVEß- HALE A
MILLION FEET OF THEM.
Have just received by last mail a splendid
supply of
PATHE FILMS—GRAND SUBJECTS —
4d. PER FOOT.
Call in and see them, or send for particulars.
We repair films—we let out on hire—
we send on approval.
SEND FOR OUR LIST OF SECOND-HAND FILMS.
JERDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 QEORQE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Zo.
AN ENJOYABLE SHAVE.
We guarantee an enjoyable, easy, satisfactory
shave every time you use
The PLUM RAZOR, Price 10/6, f/™
As Hairdressers we know it will meet; your re-
quirements—keep sharp, and allow quick work.
We keep it in
order two years
free of charge.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established ‘25 Years.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise U Joke Novelties.
THE LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
See the passing- Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
people look thin—thin
people look stout. The
Laughing: Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing" pedestrians,
horses, waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
All grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly
made, and cannot get out
of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Tiie Laughing Camera.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
han (I I es, spring
back. Puzzle to shut
as well 'as to open,
use, also a superior
directions, 2/2, post
Makes a splendid knife for general
rabbiter’s knife. Price, with full
free anywhere.
THE POLYCHROMATIC BILLIARD BALL.
After introducing- any
number of silk handker-
chiefs, each of a different
color, the conjurer re-
quests the company to
select any one of the
handkerchiefs (no forc-
ing-). Seizing the selected
handkerchief, the per-
former waves his hand
gerttlyupanddown, when
the handkerchief becomes
smaller and smaller until
it finally disappears alto-
gether, having given place
to a solid billiard ball of
the same color as the
handkerchief. This is a
very novel and inexplic-
able trick, while the
apparatus that we furnish
for this trick is made of very substantial and superior
material, and quite impossible to get out of order.
Suitable for either amateur or professional.
Complete with red, white and blue handkerchiefs.
Price (with full instructions), //6 ; post free, 2j-
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 Kins Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
THE MAGIC FLUTE
lIUMAN ATONE
Wonderfully Sweet-Toned and Musical.
ANYONE CAN PLAY IT
No Knowledge of Music
Needed
SMALL ENOUGH TO CARRY IN
THE POCKET
1/6
each
Loud Enough to Lead
the Band
Only 1/6 each,
Carriage Paid
'T'lirc Magic Flute is an absolutely new style of musical m-
strument ; nothing- like it has ever been seen. It is made
entirely of u’ckel-plated metal, and it is strong and durab.e.
It will never wear out or get out of order. The most ex-
traordinary imitations of bird-calls and warblines «an be
produced, and it cannot be excelled for teaching a parrot to
whistle. You can play any tune you know after a little
practice, and the tone is very musical and flute-like. It is cap-
able of the most eharmirg modulations, more closely re-
sembling the legato of a violin than is possible on any key« d
instrument, and the most popular meh dy or the most elabo-
rate operatic air can be played, either as a solo or accompanied,
in a manner that would be enthusiastically applauded even
on a concert platform. Anyone can play the Magic Flute,
and the performer with the true 4 ' gift of music ” will find it,
with a very little practice, the most easily controlled sound
producer it is possible to imagine. Each Magic Flute is
packed in a box with full instructions, and the price is only
Is. 6d., including carriage to any address. We will send
our 240-page Illustrated Catalogue with each order, and, if you
mention this paper when ordering, you may have a Clever
Puzzle without charge, with the offer of another Puzzle if you
can solve the first one. Obtainable only from
The Union Mfg. & Agency Go.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
s
and CANVASSERS
Wanted in every district to take up sole agency and
monopoly for spare or whole time for exclusive Fast-
selling Novelties, Handy Tools. Harness Kits, 801 1 Re-
pair Kits, Safety Razors, Music, Medical and Curioi s
Books, Comic Post Cards, House-to-House Lines for
Station. Farm, Household, and Kitchen labor savers.
Big profits. Agents Coining Money. £3 to £7 weekly
easily made Write for catalogues, etc., at once to
“Handy Things,” Box 1163, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s-6d. from, all booksellers. i J ost
Areefrom Bulletin office, -os,~ „
POWERFUL TELESCOPES.
Marine ” Achromatic Pocket Telescope*
An Ideal Telescope, and takes up very little room.
Only
17/6
The “ Marine ” is undoubtedly the finest Pocket Telescope on the market. It is positively hi fitted with l high i
Lenses of tiuesc ueliuition.and so powerful that you could distinguish a vessel over live miles A n^?r Tnd
ls Its beautiful finish, the three drawers being of Oxydised Lustreless Black, very much resemt.bug black ceiluloid, ““ ‘t nncn po^
ance which shows it at oace to be a superior glass. Au advantage of this flni.-h is that it does not show ttn„er marks, and is no . y corner
prolonging the beauty and life of the Glass. When closed, it me wures onlv a few inches, consequently can be earned in the pocket or kept m t e c
of a drawer. We will forward this to any address, packed in a handsome ease, for only 17s. 6d., carriage paid.
“Rifle Range” Pocket Telescope.
Unusually fame hi!. Vision of nearly 10 wiles. Only 21s. Carriage paid.
In appearance the “ Rifle Range” Telescope is very similar to the
Telescooe described above. but it has a Wider Objective Lens, giving a greater
circumference of vision. When closed, it measures not quite seven inches, ihe Lenses
of this Glass are about the finest quality ever put into a Telescope of this and yield
the most perfect definition, and so powerful as to give a range of nearly Tsn Miles.
The price is only 21s. Postage naid. and as with ail of our Telescopes, each one packed
in a special Tubular carrying Case.
The “Naval” High=Power
Telescope.
Astronom cil Eye-P ece given free.
118
An Ideal Instrument. INTENSELY POWERFUL. Range of over 12 miles. Only £1 10s. Carriage paid.
We are selling this Splendid Telescope for very much less than you can buy it in England or America. The large number of cush mtrs-who harp
gone in for the “ Naval” Telescope are very proud of this Glass. It is very powerful, having a range of over twelve mi.es ot land crsea. it is
fitted with extra high quality Achromatic Lenses of perfect detlnit ; on. and has three drawers. When extended it measures lb inches and when clo. ed
only 6 in. The draw tubes are of Oxvdized Lustreless Black, the body is covered with Morocco Leather. Thorough workmanship and finish
hroughout distinguish this Glass. Price £ 1 10s„ and we pay carriage.
SPECIAL OFFER. With the first 50 orders, we are giving away free to purchasers of Ihe “ Naval” Telescope, a wonderfully Improved
Astronomical Eye-Piecs, for use with this Glass for examining the Sun, Moon and Stars, and various oth.tr Astronomical obseivations.
THE “ASTRONOMICAL” TELESCOPE.
Very similar to the " Naval ” Telescope, but twice the size and with a range of over fifteen miles. This Telescope is also fitted with an improved
Darkened Sun Glass for examining the sun and the heavens. It is a beautiful glass,and alfords excellent views of the sun, moon, suteui ,es,<sc. m
addition to its terrestrial powers. Price £2 155., and we pay Carriage.
“LIGHTHOUSE” TELESCOPE.
The king of all Telescopes. Perfectlv made in every detail, and so powerful that you can distinguish the name of a ship over twelve miles off. Price
£lO 10s. Carriage paid. Absolute satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded.
Mr, D E Wells, 11 Fathom Bav, Pelorous Sound, Marlborough. N.Z., who purchased one of these fine instruments writes—
“ The “LIGHTHOUSE’ Telescope which i obtained from you is giving splendid satisfaction an 11 am very well pleased indeed with it.
A. J. SMITH 81 CO., 14 Hunter Street, Sydney.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes' 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
itching, blind, bleeding or protruding piles in 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2s. 3d.*
A reliable medicine for croup, and one
that should always be kept on hand for immedi-
ate use is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
A LITTLE COMMON-SENSE.
In using any kind of medicine a little common-
sense is always necessary. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Rills are compounded to meet the general
requirements of man, woman and child, both
weak and strong, and in prescribing the doses of
from one to four pills, the actual number necessary
in each case must be determined according to the
age and condition of the patient. A dose, how-
ever, should be sufficient to move the bowels at
least twice, and although relief may be obtained
at once, it is always advisable to take a pill or two
on the following night.
In some instances the first dose may cause a
little pain and sickness, which will not recur sub-
sequently. The cause is due to the large flow of
bile into the intestines, which the Pills have let
loose by opening the congested ducts which have
been clogged up, perhaps, for months. Do not
blame the Pills if under these conditions you feel
sick. You will feel better afterwards, and if you
adopt Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as your
regular medicine, there is no likelihood of your
liver getting in the same state again.*
INTIMATION IS HEREBY GIVEN that a
Writ has been presented under “The Pre-
sumption of Life Limitation (Scotland) Act, 1891”
to the Sheriff Court of Forfarshire at Forfar,
Scotland, at the instance of James Cargill, Senior,
Retired Police Constable, 43 King Street, Mont-
rose, and others, craving the Court to find that
Alexander Cargill, Shipmaster, who went to
Australia about 1885, and subsequently shipped
on various vessels from Australian ports, and who
was a son of the said James Cargill, Senior, has
disappeared, and that he shall be presumed to
have died on 31st January, 1896; in which Writ
a deliverance has been pronounced inter alia
appointing intimation of said Writ and the pur-
port of said deliverance to be made forthwith by
advertisement once in each of the People’s
Journal, Forfarshire Edition, and the Sydney
Bulletin, Newspapers, and ordaining any parties
interested to lodge objections, if so advised, in the
hands of the Clerk of Court at Forfar on or before
the 17th. day of November, 1909, of all which
notice is hereby given.
JAMES CUM MING. Law Agent,
49 High Street, Montrose,
Agent for Pursuers.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE\
NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALOOOHLIE and COOLOABPIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Football’s brief wintry day, is sinking to a close
in Sydney, and on Saturday the Rugby Union brought
its First Grade competition to a close. The Soccer people
also finished their struggle for the premiership and
Rawson Cup; while all other divisions are in their last
stages.
* * * +
The overthrow of Newtown by South Sydney
(Union) the previous week was responsible for much of
the elation with which the South barrackers greeted their
team. But cooler heads remembered that Glebe had, on
points, much the best of South Sydney, having scored
213 for the season as against South’s 139, and
that fact meant a lot. All the same, the game
opened badly for Glebe. South came away with
splendid rushes, and worked the line for every
ounce it was worth, and drew first blood in the shape of
an unconverted try. Glebe settled down to a bullocking
game—a sort of infantry attack on long-range artillery
and light cavalry. Later on it changed the tactics and
converted the infantry into heavy cavalry, which rolled
right through the struggling South men and bore them
down by sheer weight and brute force. The score was 17
points to six. An extra spice of excitement was added
by the defection of the Wallabies, and South was so hard
put to it that mercenaries had to be rung in under
assumed names to make up the cohort. Glebe had better
luck in that respect; so, taking all things into considera-
tion, South put up a magnificent scrap.
The rebellion of the Wallabies is threatening to
make history, and the matter will, in all probability, be
finally fought out in the law-courts. It seems that the
dragging-in of the South Sydney Hospital as a stalking-
horse was a somewhat more flagrant affair than reported
in last iosue. The agreement actually fixed up by the
League committee, in spite of the protests of Knox, pro-
vided for four charges on the gate of the three
matches. The first charge was for an indefinite
amount, to be taken by Mr. J. Joynton Smith
to reimburse his guarantee to the Wallabies. At the
time it was not stated what the Wallabies were to
get, but it is now generally understood that it was £l5OO
—£loo each to 13 men, £l5O to another and £5O to one.
The second charge was to pay ads. and ground expenses.
The third was to pay an indefinite, unstated “bonus” to
the Kangaroos. The fourth charge was an equal division
of what remained over between the League and the South
Sydney Hospital. Probably both the League and South
Sydney Hospital will sell their shares dirt cheap.
What the League requires most just now is
some public-spirited member to bring the matter before
the courts and biff out the committee that has done this
thing. The situation is humorous, and must cause
Messrs. Giltinan, Trumper and Hoyle pain in their sides.
When they ran the League they banked sums of money
to a Trust Account, a sort of secret campaign fund,
which was to be used to attract good players and gener-
ally to foster the interests of the League by secret but
not dishonorable means. How they administered that
fund does not matter just now. But the League eventu-
ally rose and kicked them out of office for creating it.
And it was this very committee that did most of the
kicking. Now it turns round and boots Knox and
O’Sullivan out because they will not agree to do what
Giltinan, Trumper and Hoyle were sacked for doing.
Briefly, the position is this: A match was
arranged between the Wallabies and the Kangaroos by
Mr. J. J. Smith, who guaranteed the Wallabies a certain
sum, now said to be £l5OO. Mr. Smith is not an office-
holder in the League. He is said to have had his owm
men on the gates, collected the cash, deducted his per-
centage, and banked it in his own bank. All the League
committee did was to give a sort of open order to this
gentleman, who was, after all, an outsider. Yet by-law
1, clause A, declares that the League is to control
Rugby League football throughout the State of N.S.W.,
and to have entire management thereof. In this case
Mr. Smith seems to have managed. The general com-
mittee which sanctioned this affair has apparently ex-
ceeded its powers, as it can only administer the League
according to the Constitution, and any changes in the
Constitution have to be passed by a referendum. The
rules also provide that the net proceeds of matches shall,
after the deduction of ground per centages and adver-
tising exes., wages of gatemen and so forth, be placed to
the credit of the League. Yet it is reported that they have
been placed to the credit of someone else. The rules limit
the remuneration of players to compensation for actual
loss of time while playing, and still further limit it by the
statement that the sum must not exceed 10s. per day.
Most of the Wallabies are said to have exceeded that
amount, and if the Wallabies do not count as members of
the League the committee is still in the soup, as it is pro-
posed to give the Kangaroos a bonus, which is to be a
third cut at the gate money.
League Rugby, as played under the League
Constitution, is not professional football ; but as played
between the Wallabies and Kangaroos it is professionalism
out and out. Few of the footballers earn more than
£2 per week; so they were guaranteed practically
a year’s salary each for a series of three matches. It is re-
ducing football to private enterprise, and making it a wild
scramble for cash. It is making the League merely a bogus
sporting body, whose premises will practically be an office
where private syndicators will recruit footballers to play
for fixed sums and portions of the gate ; and the end will
be the ruin of the League and its disappearance.
Also, it may result in a lot of legal expense to some
estimable gentlemen ; for if the matter goes to the courts
there seems to be no escape from the fact that the rules
have been blown to smithereens, and that the committee
has usurped the functions and authority of a general
meeting of the members.
Just here some remarks about the actual match
might be of interest. Twenty thousand people looked on
and expected to see something that would knock corners
off the displays against the Maoris. But they didn’t.
The Wallabies played a constrained sort of game. The
Kangaroos seemed listless, as though it was bad busi-
ness to romp over the newcomers even when they got the
chance, which they did often. They scored turn about
in a way that was monotonous, and at half time the
Wallabies led by 18 to 16. Then the Kangaroos
went ahead, and the Wallabies lagged behind. But, later
on, the pendulum swung back, and the Kangaroos lagged
till the Wallabies came alongside. And still later, with a
final spurt, the Kangs, scored another try, and the whistle
blew', leaving the new converts in a minority of three.
* « *■ «
The last match of the Soccer competition was
that between the terrible Pyrmont and Northern
Suburbs, and went to the terrible ones by eight goals to
nil. Pyrmont’s score for the season stands at 14 victories,
one defeat and one draw. Of 32 possible points it scored
29, and during the season it kicked 52 goals, with only 16
kicked into its own net. Rozelle, second on the list, won
11 matches, lost three and drew two, scoring only 24
points out of the possible 32, with 38 goals kicked for 14
made against it. Granville is the third on the list, and
after that Sydney, Balmain and Ultimo.
, . - * m
The Gardiner Cup trouble (Soccer) will come to
a finish on Saturday next, when Pyrmont, with its cham-
pionship fresh upon it, will meet in battle array the men
of Newcastle, the tyrants of the North, at Sydney Cricket
Ground. And great will be the struggle, for the Gardiner
Cup is the historic trophy of Sydney Soccerdom, and
dates back to the misty past of 1885.
Sydney and Paddington, which were at the
bottom of the Australian Rules list last year, are this time
at the top ; so the Scripture which said the last shall, be
first and so forth is fulfilled. And they got there by
clean playing. It will be a case of virtue rewarded if
either of them wins the Rawson Cup, and the chances
are that North Sydney will accomplish that feat, with
Paddington as runner-up, Y.M.C.A. third, and “the
dirty sloggers” (Newtown) fourth. Fourth is too
good for Newtown ; it ought to be in the
duck-pond. On Saturday, Newtown managed to
down the Good Young Men by just one little point. The
G.Y.M. had all the best of the actual playing, but their
kicking was deplorable. Had they but kicked as many
goals as behinds, the Lord would not have looked side-
ways while Newtown won. On Saturday next Newtown
meets North Shore, and it is to be hoped the authorities
will deal roughly with the Newtown hoodlums who
usually play the man and not the ball. One cheerful
feature of the game is that Bob Errol, a mighty pug.
before the Lord, will be playing with the Y.M.C.A., and
the fact may have a restraining influence on the dirty
sloggers.
* * * *
Maoriland is a place of mighty Rugby foot-
ball records. But recently a mammoth score of 91 points
was put up bv a winning team. Now there is a great
searching of records to find a better waste of boot.
* * * *
When the church takes to football, the names
are fearsome. St. Simon and St. Jude recently won its
competition with 329 points scored against three, every
game won, the last being finished with eight to three. So
for the whole season right up till the very last match, St.
Simon and St. Jude had not had a solitary point scored
against it.
* * * *
In Melbourne’s League ’oofball on Saturday
there were only two games that counted; but they
mattered a lot to Essendon and Melbourne, which col-
lided with Carlton and’Wood respectively, inasmuch as
Melbourne was but half a game behind the ’Dons. The
authorities thoughtfully studied the niceties of the posi-
tion by posting the scores of each game on the other
ground, so that the contestants could see how things
stood with them. Both events were a complete answer to
those know-alls who asserted that Carlton and ’Wood,
having nothing whatever to gain by winning, w'ould
not unduly distress themselves. At East Mel-
bourne the high wind blew across the ground
over a packed “house,” and a joyous, swift and
determined encounter ensued. The “Same Old” had
a trifle the better of the scuffle through the first half,
Carlton’s shooting being painfully erratic. After the spell
the Old Blues of Carlton set out to win, and had put on
an eight-point advantage by three-quarter time. Then
the information was published that Melbourne was but
three goals behind ’Wood, and had the wind for the finish,
and the ’Dons saw their semi-final hopes fading ; so they
bogged in something tremendous. For 15 of the last 25
minutes they put up a sustained, determined attack on
Carlton’s goal, and had reduced the lead to one point,
when the Old Blues decided to stand no more nonsense.
They didn’t. Before the ’Dons had time to realise it,
Carlton had added another 14 points, and ran out winners
by 49 to 34. And, after all, the tremendous struggle
went for nothing, for Collingwood had put up
a finish that knocked Melbourne silly. Starting with the
gale right behind them, the Magpies methodically placed
46 points to seven on the board. Changing over, the Red
Legs had their little say, the figures at the interval being
’Wood 57, Melb. 48. At three-quarter time, ’Wood had
increased its lead by only nine points—Bo to 62—and the
old club, with the knowledge that Essendon was losing,
took the wind with high hopes. Then came the shock —a
repetition of that marvellous game between the same
teams, when the Magpies, in 20 minutes, turned a lost
event into a draw. Playing the old systematic
game, with short, low, skimming kicks from man
to man, they added 28 points, while Melbourne
could only scratch up a paltry four—loB points
to 66, and Melbourne passed out of public life till May 10.
Of the other scuffles South won, with little credit, from
Saints by 57 to 35 ; Geelong scrambled on to the penulti-
mate rung of the ladder by knocking up 92 points to
Richmond’s 31 ; and ’Varsity and ’Roy indulged in an
elegant dissertation which gave neither party the advan-
tage—6o points both being the record. As the Students
now retire from public view for the season, this seems to
be the place to point out that their lamentable habit of
kicking behinds when goals are wanted has lost them four
distinct games this season—-and four more wins would
have put them among the elect.
While these episodes were transpiring, an even
more strenuous afternoon was being spent on the Mel-
bourne ground, where Brunswick was essaying to get into
the Ass. final, and P’ran was trying to keep it out. P’ran,
being on top at the end of the first round, has a second
chance—a sort of “ challenge ” final—but it has been
walloped twice by Essendon this season, and it wanted to
keep that “ saver ” in case it was bumped out in the
“first” final. But Brunswick willed otherwise. The
Ass. has lately been handing out suspensions with
a lavish hand—last week it retired four ’bailers
until June TO—wherefore the game was of a
distinctly genteel character, though the barracker
misbehaved himself as usual. An unusually com-
petent umpire early impressed on the players the dis-
advantage of playing anything but the ball, and as things
settled down the discussion developed into one of the
prettiest games seen this year—fast, clean, open and
hotly-contested right through. Just as at Collingwood,
the Ass. Magpies (’Wick) started with the wind, and led
in the first and third quarters. At the last change the
Two Blues were but three points to the bad, and looked
as if going to win handiß', but that last quarter was a
replica of the other Magpie uprising. ’Wick piled on 21
more points to P’ran’s six, and got into the final by 54
points to 36. Whereat there was much “ Blime,” also
“ What price the two Magpies?” for premiers.
9 ft * *
One of Barry’s reasons for not going to Maori-
land to row Dick Arnst was that by doing so he would
miss the £5OO Sculling Handicap on the Thames. Well,
he might as well have missed it for all the good he did. as
he was beaten and appears to have been unplaced. The
winner was a youthful phenomenon named G. R. Luck,
and he came out of the race worth £250 more than he
went into it. The same youth subsequently won Dog-
gett’s coat and badge, which carries with it ten quid to
make the coat feel comfortable. Altogether, Luck is in.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the fatuousness of the Bench,
the police are still struggling to make Centennial Park
(Sydney) a place of reasonable safety for children ; and
last week a batch of horse trainers were roped in. These
undesirable gentry have for years been using the park as
a cheap training ground, and in defence pleaded custom.
The S.M. let them down lightly with £2 fines ; and said
something about more next time. But £2 per time will
scare the trainers off, and when the motor hog and the
cycling fiends have been wiped out, the glorious park will
once more be a place of safety, in which the children can
romp and breathe fresh air without gambling on their
lives.
* * 9 9
The Dunlop Rubber 00. has been overwhelmed
with nominations for the Warrnambool-Melbourne road
race, no less than 550 gentlemen having sent in their
papers. The popularity of this ride is amazing, and the
men who win the little bronze and enamel medallions
issued by the Dunlop people are as proud of them as old
campaigners are of the V.C.
* * * *
The Bathurst-to-Sydney cycle race was run
under ideal weather conditions on Saturday. No less
than 110 acceptors faced the starter at the Royal Hotel,
Bathurst, and 70 competed. Fortunately for the riders,
people along the line of riding took sufficient interest in
the affair to provide refreshments. The winner turned
up in H. Lundie, of Merrylands (N.S.W.), and F. D. Wal-
cott scored the fastest time. He covered the distance in
7hr. 24mjn. lOsee., and secured third prize.
* * * *
“Vulcan” : The “very latest ” in correct Eng-
lish country invitations, according to Henry Lucy, is to
print along with “R.S.V.P.” a carefully detailed list of
the police motor traps between the guest’s point of de-
parture and his prospective dinner.
9 * * *
Victorian Cricket Association has been much
exercised in mind re the recent victory of the N.S.W.
body over the Cricket Ground Trust, and proposes to do
likewise. The Melbourne Cricket Ground is in a much
weaker position than the Sydney Cricket Ground, as it is
said that there is no title to the territory, and that it was
merely grabbed in the good old-fashioned manner by
squatting. However, the Cricket Ass. will proceed cau-
tiously, and will ask for applications from bodies control-
ling grounds to supply playing space for inter-State and
international matches. The projected visits of S. African
and Englishman teams in 1910 and 1912 have stirred it to
action to secure a larger share of the gate money.
• * * *
Pearce and Day, who are to row for the cham-
pionship of Australia on the 25th inst., have not yet de-
cided whether they will row for £lOO or £2OO a side. Pre-
sumably one or the other has doubts about his ability to
raise the second century ; but if the money can be raised
it will be gambled for cheerfully.
» * * *
Finding that Barry of England and Durnan of
Canada are not wildly profligate with their offers for
expenses, Arnst has decided to stay in southern climes,
and give Australasians a show to win his title. There
doesn’t seem to be much money in sculling in furrin parts
these days.
■*■*•-»*
The Australian XI. got home on the M.C.C.
last week. Last time they met the M.C.C. won by
three wickets. This time Australia piled up 434 against
188 and 187 for one wicket, when down came the rain so
heavily that the players swam for shelter and safety.
Ransford was the bright particular star of the match,
and smote up 190, while the only Trumper retired with
a modest 80 to his score.
* * * *
Leaving out the picnic game against Scotland,
Australia has scored 19 centuries this trip against
England’s nine. Also, after losing three matches in the
first seven, the Australians have staved off defeat in the
remaining 28.
* • « *
The N.S.W. lacrosse team in Queensland was
utterly routed. The first match was lost by two to 22,
and then the Queensland second XI. came along and
rubbed it in by seven to five, and finally the State team
again downed the invaders by nine to two. The sooner
Tahmmy gives the N.S.W. team some lessons, as he
offered to do, the better.
* • * *
Affairs in Vic. trotting circles have been very
unhappy of late. The unpleasantness culminated re-
cently when the Melbourne Trotting Club, which is
mostly Citizen Wren, seceded from the Vic. Trotting
Association and threatened to go a-galloping on its lone-
some. Of course, Wren controls Richmond, Ascot and
Fitzroy courses, and as he gives big prize money the
owners couldn’t do without him ; but under Bent’s
Gaming Act only 20 days of trottingper annum are allowed
round Melbourne, which days the Chief Secretary appor-
tions. So Chief Secretary John Weary was dragged into
the dispute, and having listened till he was more tired
than ever, ukased that the days parcelled out for
trotting should remain as at present distributed, and
that the Association should give Wren’s club and
the associated owners a trifle more representation
than they had hitherto. Also all disqualifications on
account of the friction—as Mr. Barney Reynolds called it
—should be removed. Moreover, the Ass. withdrew all
imputations and insinuations against Billy Whitburn—-on
condition of his abandoning his law action against it—
remitted all fines and penalties imposed on him, restored
his license to ride, drive and train trotters, and also re-regis-
tered his prad Harold Boy, ever which all the trouble
occurred. So now all is sweet peace and holy calm, the
only unaccountable circumstance about the episode
being the failure of Mr. P. Boardman to rush into the
proceedings. Any uprising of Wren’s seems incomplete
without Mr. P. Boardman.
Caulfield (Vic.) racecourse seems safe for a little
while yet. Some of the suburb wants to abolish it; but
when the matter came “ up ” at the municipal election the
other day, Blunden, the abolitionist, was beaten by 51
votes in a poll of 695. Judging by the row that the stable
boys made, it looked as though Blunden was going to be
passed out by 690 votes, and the narrow margin leaves
various people feeling uncomfortable.
r ** * *
The 28th volume of the Australian Racing
Chronicle, just issued by J. J. Miller (Melb.), seems to be
somewhat bulkier than any previous volume of the series.
It contains the record of 856 race-meetings which hap-
pened in the Commonwealth between February 1 and
July 31, and the index shows that 1230 different horses
took part in the various meetings. A considerable num-
ber of those overworked animals ran in at least 10 races
during the six months. Some of them were saddled up
more than 20 times, but as to how many times they were
“on the job ” the Chronicle gives no information. On
ail other racing points it is a very informative publication.
In their match with Kent county, the other
week, the Australian Eleven met three of the bowlers—
Carr, Blythe and Woolley—who were expected to get
them out in the fifth test match. The collective average
of those three bowlers was two wickets for 198 ; but then
the two men who pasted the bowling and made 296
runs between them were Armstrong and Ransford, whilst
Bardsley, with 48, was the next highest scorer. The
awful humiliation of Kent was not surprising after all.
Figures up to July 10 showed that Armstrong, Ransford
and Bardsley were high in the list of English batting
averages. They were the only Australians among the
30 leading batsmen, and their places were first, third
and fifth respectively.
* * * *
The day this appears brudder Johnson will be
fighting Kauffman in California—unless the usual hitch
occurs. The scrap will not give either gentleman much
time to show his ferocity, as it is limited to 10 rounds;
and the really scientific fighter should be able to avoid
serious injury for 10 rounds. Somehow this writer does
not expect to hear that Johnson has dropped his cham-
pionship.
•* * * *
“ Snell ” : It was thought that Bob Green-
shields, the Vie. lightweight, had bucked up sufficiently
to put his hands all over Hughie Meeghan ; but to my
mind Greenshields never saw the day when he could
whip Meeghan, and is not likely to, bar accidents. Bob is a
bright boxer, but he lacks sting ; there’s not enough mis-
chief in his punch, and he never quite wakes up and
gets at an enemy with deadly intentions. Meeghan, on
the other hand, is as clever as Bob in the dealing-out
department, has better defence, and can hit like the kick
of a camel with either fist. All this was demonstrated in
the course of II rounds fought by the scientists in ques-
tion at the Melbourne Athletic Pavilion. Meeghan led
throughout, did all the forcing, and administered 90 per
cent, of the trouble. In the 11th section of the disturb-
ance he beat Bob so thoroughly that the latter’s corner
hung out the clothes to dry. It now remains for Meeghan
to recover the lightweight championship from Jones, of
Sydney.
• 9 9 *
“Silas Snell ” : I see that a British sociologist,
who has written a book on the condition of England, is
quoted with approval by The Bulletin’s “ Red Page.” One
quotation gives, as an instance of English alleged de-
generacy, the avidity of the people to purchase and gloat
over photographs of “ Brudder Johnsing” upper-cutting
little Tommy Burns. This is not the first time some
popular display of interest in the ring has been trotted
out to stress the assertion that J. Bull’s progeny are on
the down grade ; but I submit that pugilism as a sport
was never so unpopular in England as to-day; that
English pugilists are insignificant, and the game does
not attract money enough in Bull’s run to make it
worth a stout man’s while. This indifference to fist-
fighting, and not the imagined avidity is, if you like,
some evidence of the decadence of John Bull’s stock.
When Englishmen really loved the prize ring, and English-
men had no peers as pugilists, they were whipping the
world on the battlefield and in scores of industries, and
there was no hint anywhere but that the Bull calf was a
virile and magnificent beef. Possibly the Englishman’s
joy in a ring fight was in no way responsible for his per-
fection then-a-days ; but certainly avidity for a scrap is
no element in his present alleged defection, for he is no
longer a fist-fighter, and is now a less hearty patron of
fist-fights than the Parisian.
IN THE AIR !
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Saturday.—M. Henri Farman, on his aero-
plane, at Rheims, flew 112 miles in 3hr. 4min. 56J sec.,
and thereby won the Grand Prix, valued at £2ooo .—Cable.
There’s a sound of something crackling in the air !
There’s a vicious smell of petrol in the air 1
There is something swiftly swooping,
Soaring, hovering and drooping,
And a man is sitting steering in a chair,
And his hair
Stands up straight and gives him something of an air
Of despair—
Looks as if he knew he had no right up there
In the air!
Looks as if he thought the splutter,
And the irritating mutter
Of the motor might stop with a bang! and land him in
the gutter !
And his anxious, fleeting smile,
As he skims another mile,
And the blurred crowd reels below him,
And the people shout that know him,
Seems to indicate a doubt—
Just a shade of apprehension
Whether it will last it out
Or collapse. The state of tension
Is exhausting, and he watches from his swooping, skim-
ming ’plane
As it rattles, flaps and shudders, and sweeps round the
course again
Like a beetle—like a bird,
Like a dragon-fly absurd,
With an endless string of crackers tied adroitly to its
tail,
And exploding like blue blazes on its elevated trail
As it dives and floats and soars
To the mob’s delighted roars ;
As it clatters swiftly round,
Far above the teeming ground,
See ! he peers and steers and watches with anxiety pro-
found !
Till the time has come to stop,
When, with one loud final pop !
And-a flutter and a shudder, to the earth it does a drop ;
Then, like some vast flake of froth,
Or a new and awkward moth,
It squats down upon its wheels,
Hardly knowing how it feels —
Sits there, staring at the sky,
As if it would ask jt why
It was made to carry Farman and an oily smell on high.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


THE IDEAL WINTER RESORT
Hydro-Majestic and Hotel
Medlow Bath, Blue Mountains.
3500 ft. above sea level, and just 2£ hours’ railway journey from Sydney.
MOTORS DAILY TO JEN OLA N CAVES.
Here, housed in a palatial Hotel and with exquisite scenic environments, one can
realise the Best Winter Holiday.
Telephone 29 Katoomba; or call up CITY OFFICE, 42 CASTLEREACH STREET, Telephone 4349.
Grand Opening of Cycle Showrooms.
B. & B.’s—at 234 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
SPACIOUS GRANDLY LIGHTED SPLENDIDLY FITTED.
FINE DISPLAY OF NEW CYCLES
—the latest B. & B. Models —Parts and Accessories —MOTOR
CYCLES—SECOND-HAND MACHINES (upstairs).
These Showrooms are worth a Visit from you. Catalogue Free. Mention this paper when Writing.
BENNETT & BARK ELL,
Largest Cycle-building 1
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and
Castlereagti Street, Sydney.
St. Vincent’s Private Hospital
VICTORIA STREET, DARLINGHURST.
Under the care of the Sisters of Charity.
Open for the Reception of Patients Bth September, 1909.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Bail
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing:
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland —Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
SA-VO-LA' s«" s.iv.
THE SURE CURE FOR SKIN INJURIES.
SUIfI'MIIJKRM!
k
i'i•
•111 l II
.V/v//»
";c
4v
CC
f -
K:
\
#*-
.•.V« !
2&
r- : ;:
U *•
*
V^v
•SA-VO-LA* in a few words is best described
as “the Greatest Skin Healer of the Century.”
All medical experts declare the great skin salve, SA-YO-LA to be the most
reliable of skin doctors, and invaluable to all persons in every grade of life
wherever accidents may happen. It is a disinfectant, antidote to blood poison,
and a skin-healer combined. It prevents blood poison arising from sores,
wounds, cuts, abrasions, etc., by reducing heat and inflammation and leaving
the injured parts soft, sweet, and cool. Workers in factories, warehouses,
or on farms, cattle-sheds, sheep-stations, mining camps or shearing sheds,
should have SA-YO-LA always handy, because it heals magically.
SA-VO-LA IS THE POCKET SKIN DOCTOR FOR ALL SKIN ILLS.
SA-VO-LA is a sure cure for cuts, sores (chronic or acute), barcoo, rash, itch, burns, scalds, festers,
chilblains, sun-burns, pimples, eczema, skin-cracks, whitlow, scalp sores in children, ulcers, piles,
muscular rheumatism, lumbago, boils, nerve pains, chapped hands, etc.
For Piles it is a most remarkable cure, and, when applied to the part, should be slightly heated to
reduce the balm to a liquid, then saturate a piece of cotton wool, or some other soft material, and
apply. Stubborn cases hava been cured in this way.
SA-VO-LA may be obtained of all chemists and grocers, price 1/6 the pot, or 3/6 large size,
containing four times the quantity. If not supplied locally, send direct for a pot, post free on
receipt of price.
The ‘Ray’ Chemical Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney, n.s. w.
FLITE TYRE SUCCESSES.
Bathurst to Sydney Road Race (133 Miles).
PROMOTED BY BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
WON ON FLITE TYRES.
Ist.—H. LUNDIE.
2nd.-A. C. WALCOTT.
3rd.—F. D. WALCOTT.
4th.—R. MUTTON.
Fastest Time:
F. D. WALCOTT.
2nd Fastest Time :
R. MUTTON.
ALL ON FLITE TYRES.
Manufactured by BARNET GLASS RUBBER Co. Ltd., 234 Clarence St., Sydney, & all States.
RAY’S PLEURO VACCINE
(PURE CULTURE FROM VIRUS).
30,000 Head Inoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Full particulars from—
DONALD ROSS g CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
Missing; Friends.
TP DAVID ROSS and KATE ROSS (children of
WILLIAM ROSS, late of Swan Hill, Victoria, farmer,
deceased) will communicate with The Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd., of 412 Collins Street, Melbourne
(or with D. J. W all ace, solicitor, Swan Hill), they will
hear of something- to their advantage.
OMHOLT or HOLT or WILSON, Frances
Amelia, nee HENDERSON or DEANE,
formerly residing- Old South Head Road,
Waverley, communicate with undersigned.
Money awaiting you. If dead, information or
evidence of death will he paid for.
McLACIILAN & MURRAY, Solicitors,
E. S. & A. Bank Building,
King and George Streets, Sydney.
An /m,
(y
THE
y-
sLmm
m
STROKE l
From point to heei.
Or Heelto Point
Pd'f'rible
URLEYgQ
RAZOR
ENDS
All
TROUBLES OF SHAVING
on i> r MAS<
Witk.the
<33o^°*
CET A CURLEY SAFETY RAZOR. Cannot Cut Your-
self ! Price 15/- each. Extra Blade, 3/6. Post Free.
Denyer Bros., 281 George St., Sydney, N.S.W
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
HALF A MILLION GALLONS
Just Landed ex “ Trocas.”
Supplied by all Garages throughout
the States of South Australia, Vic-
toria and New South Wales.
I
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Somethin"- every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day.
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing- mention this paper)
“KURLO”
produces beautiful curls or waves in
a few days without the aid of tongs or
pins. Makes the hair soft and silky,
strengthens the roots, and prevents
hair falling out. Curls the straightest
hair if not cut too short Pleasant,
perfectly harmless. Not affected by
sea air, damp weather, or heated rooms
Price 2/6 PER BOTTLE
(Post Free anywhere, full directions)
Send Postal Note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins St. Melbourne
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding' day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you have not
done your duty by your shin and
complexion. If, on the other hand
—that is, on both hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you wall have done the
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
The usual cadging deputations that camped
on the Vic. Treasury doormat during Show week
would cheerfully hang a certain public servant if
it could identify him. He happens to be blessed
with a long memory, and about the time the
beggars were most persistent he remembered
something, and passed it on to the Minister. A
few years ago a certain country shire said it was
utterly ruined by floods; its bridges had been
carried away, its culverts smashed and its roads
reduced to the toilsome, difficult state of the
Narrow Way, and it casually asked for £1000 to
help it along. The then Public Works Minister
was so filled with sympathy that he sent this par-
ticular officer to see whether £1000 was quite
enough. What he found was that the roads were
in a vile condition from neglect, that the bridges
were as bad from pure shiftlessness, and that
the total flood damage could be repaired for £70.
The council got a grant of £35 ; but it was in no
way abashed, and has since then bobbed up
frequently.
“ Lost Ball ” writes :—
The recent death of John Oonway is another reminder
of the fact that notable identities of the cricket field
rarely make very old bones. Conway was one of the
foundation pupils at the Church of England Grammar
School in Melbourne in 1858, and he was still a Grammar
School boy when he was chosen to play against H. H.
Stephenson’s English Eleven in Sydney and Melbourne.
Yet of the Victorian team that met Stephenson’s crowd
on the M.C.C. ground, Conway was the last survivor.
He managed the first Australian Eleven in England, and
practically silenced for ever the question which was then
raised as to the “bona fide amateur”—haw ! —status of
visiting “colonials.” Being challenged to state whether
the Eleven were playing the game as “ gentlemen ” or
professionals, Conway wrote a letter to the Times stating
that their habits were respectable and their favorite
breakfast was chops.


Baby Covered with Pimply, Inflamed
Humour-Very Fretful and Cried
Night and Day—Doctor’s Oint-
ment Seemed to Make It Worse.
CURED AT SMALL COST
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
My baby had something like a rash
come out all over him. It made 2
&
very fretful and
crying night
and day. The
doctor did not
tell what it
was but the
nurse said it
was eczema. It
was like small
pimples under
the skin and all
inflamed and
the skin came
off with the
napkins when
changing and
. the doctor’s
ointment made it peel, then it came out
worse than ever. I tried the doctor’s
ointment for some time but it did not
seem to get any better. I used two
boxes of Cuticura Ointment and Cuti-
cura Soap and cured him. I have not
seen anything on him since. He had
the skin trouble ten weeks. I feel sure
that Cuticura Soap and Ointment cured
mm and I am still using Cuticura Soap,
twas very pleased to have found out
that Cuticura was a great skin healer.
Mrs. Stone, Fonthill Bishop, near Salis-
bury, Wilts, Eng., Oct. 13 and 18, ’08.”
Reference: It. Towns & Co., Sydney,
P a £ e pamphlet
™PPed about Cuticura Ointment are
to be found most valuable suggestions
for women, especially mothers, for Ihe
flfi Ser Z a - lona , n , d Purification of theskin,
, a .P’ hair and hands; for removing tor-
g ’ d nng humours, rashes and
o?iL^- matl ? ns , : for sanative , antiseptic
cleansing of ulcerated, inflamed mucous
Hfe fa /nrl and ; destruction of microscopic
{v®; and for .bringing about, by sugges-
S°LS me . dlcatl ? n ’ a norma l condition
of health, strength and beauty.
Fla “floats R^?rfntf?T are / ol<l o I ? her ® ver the British
S RiipWn l Pondon, 27, Charterhouse Sq
Sydney;
n 0 ™ 0 ?' Ptd.. Cape Town ’etc C U S A Po te ;
free i?° Ie P ™PS-. Boston/' tM
free, the Cuticura Book mentioned above.
NERVOUS
TROUBLES.
EVERY NERVOUS MAN should
try the OLD ENGLISH HOME
REMEDIES. The BEST and CHEAP-
EST in the WORLD for the SPEEDY
CURE of Nervousness, Loss of Energy
Despondency, etc.
These invaluable remedies have
cured thousands (hundreds of whom
had "riven up all hope), and they will
CURE YOU.
Every man should read our 1N-
... . , TERESTING BOOKLET, which we
will send FREE by post. Write for one TO-DAY.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 5, 44 Castlersagh Street, Sydney.
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Boat,
22/6
Sadies who golf or take much walking exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, is goloshed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at 22/G.
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrate.' booklet “Shoe-
light” is free on receipt of a card sent to
any of these addresses.
LEE MING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
aod BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peer/ess Aperient.
LAXATINE The- Gentle Regulator.
LAXA TINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE Sold bp All Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
GLASS
Of?
mm-:
Boruck’Si
Halted milk
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples- 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
SALT
Agents—Harrison &* Attwood, Sydney.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawKes & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
WHY STAY
FAT?
im-j.
Ten thousand Fat Women
have been restored to
normal. —So may you.
“FATCURE ”
is a harmless and pleasant cure for Obesity.
In average cases it reduces by about 5 lbs.
per week, and the excess fat once removed
does not come back. Send 2d. stamp for
FREE TRIAL Sample and Free Book,
which explains how “ FATCURE ” cures.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
rAT LNTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated).
ACTRESSES* PHOTOS.
Catalogues from Is., with samples (letter postage. 2id.).
G. Arthur, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
'That Have Caught On!'
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover—full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed and
illustrated in Australia —you
ought to read them—they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E.Birtles ; price, cloth, 3/0 ;
postage, sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, ]/- ; postage 3d.
Duncan McClure, by
“ Steele Rudd ” ; price,
paper, ; postage 3d.
(The above two com-
bined) ; price, cloth,
3/0 ; postage ltd.
Sandy's Selection, by
“ Steele Rudd " : price,
paper, !/■ ; po.-tage 3(1.
Back at Our Selection,
by “ Steele liud. I" I
price, |ia)>er, I/- ; pos-
tage 3 I.
From Selection to City,
by “Stele Rudd”;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
age 3d.
BACK AT OUR
SELECTION
rli
RUDD
For Life, by “Steele Rudd”; price, paper, 1/- •
postage 3d. * f ’
Dad in Politics, by “ Steele Rudd ” ; price paper
1/-; postage 3d. ’ f h ’
(The above two combined), price, cloth 3/6 •
postage sd. ’ ' ’
Settler and Savage, by
Chas. De Boos ; price,
cloth, 1/- ; postage 4d.
Do., paper, 1/-; post-
age, 3d.
On the Fringe of the
Never-Never, by H. K.
Bloxham; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James
Green ; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by
Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by C. D.
Websdale; price, cloth,
1/-; postage 3d.
.
IBS
jga;
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by A. Pratt;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches hnd Booksellers.
SPRING SUITINGS,
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
tailors,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE-'FOR PATTERNS
Sole agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
Aertex Cellular Shirts and Underwear.
Briar
Pipes
V.
J
Briar
Pipes
They copy us
They follow us
They never catch
us.
Yota buy
and you buy
the Best.
GBD
" AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
everybody CAN USE it.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(A vvl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
I Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
i. repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
|is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (winch may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage
apparent m sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc l
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain,
ed. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
httmgs, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—a reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cottdn
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), ad’
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for qs. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collin. Street, Melbourne!
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Sydney Harbor Trust has a lame assort
meat of odd jobs on its hands. It has to dredge up the
dead dog which is mysteriously cast into the port and
the crockery which goes overboard when the cook’s’mate
is too busy to wash-up ; it has to boss the navigation of
the port and provide wharves and jetties; and it has
to turn on the hose when a flurried vessel rushes in
vuth a fire under hatches. Along shore it has 27
other odd chores to do. Since the nhra, jtt
busUed the State Government into resuming some
of the foreshores the Trust has become one of
the big landlords of the city. It probably owns nearly as
many pubs as Tooth's or Toohev’s ; arid at one swoon
Lately it added 22 waterside workers’cottages to its lon£
list Most of these places are on the flat system exceut
that every flat has its own separate entrance. And for
the water or waterside worker who can’t for the moment
run to a flat or even a boarding-house, the Trust keeps a
doss-house at Miller’s Point, and puts up an avera£ of
close on 200 visitors per night. It doesn’t provided
tucker, but the dosser can get a scrub and a mop as well
as a decent bed. And the doss pays the Trust; in fact
dm mg the last two or three years, most of the Trust’s
side-lines have been paying. For a long while it showed
faun a U? ?u' r 0 Slde ev '? ry • year > bu tthe tide turned in
1906, and it has been running strong the other wav e'ver
since so strong that the Trust told Parliament latelv
that for the last 12 months it had £48,835 which it
wanted to drop into a sinking fund.
* * ), .
The taxi-cab has wrecked the horse-cab indus-
try in the Big Smoke. The pirate with the great!, ex
aggerated reputation for repartee is fleeing from the
wrath thatpursueth him; and the smart mechanic with
the taxi-meter is permanently taking his place There
was a big auction sale of cabs, horses and harness ~
London a month or so back, at which hansom-cabs sold
for 255. each In fact, £6 10s. was the top price Soon
the honk of the motor will be over the face of the earth
and the noble animal that makes rogues of the
honest men will be an object of interest in a glass case?
* * * *
Statistics recently compiled in England e-o tn
prove that if you want to get separated from a quantity
of cash in a burry, you can’t do better than invest it in
the motor-building business. During the last nine years
639 manufacturers have gone in for that line and on l,™
1, 1909, only 270 remained on deck. Not more than
of these have been at the business for over a vea ■ A
firm installs expensive machinery to-day and starts to
produce a certain type of honk to-morrow ; but the da,
after (or thereabouts) a fresh invention revolutionises the
trade, whereupon the expensive machinery has to b?
scrapped, and the equally expensive patents become
worthless After which the firm mostly goes into Ikmi
dation, and some other Juggins dashes in and proceeds
to make a fortune in a hurry. 1
+
: For , a I( ™g- time past the Bendigo
Vic.) pub-keepers have been casting envious glances at
thei Co-operative beer-foundry run by the. Melbourne
publicans, and now those of them who are not leg ron?d
by the brewers are starting a hop-cooking factory on their
own. They have secured certain big buildings built ,
brewer called Thunder nearly half a eenU,7ya/o and
have sworn to make the venture a humming success and
humble the proud beer barons in the dust The r'n
operators say that the.,; will produce enough liquor to
keep all the free dmikenes throughout the northern dis
tnct going, and as most of the landlords will i, e share’
holders in the co the more beer they sell the higher the’
div. they will get from the co. when it gets to the’div?
paying stage. Meanwhile the local beer-wallowers look
for a great shindy between the old brewers and the new
Co-operators, and are getting ready to catch any beer
that happens to be dropped during the fight. There are
some good fieldsmen among them-men who can snatch
the'grounT "' ne tlmeS ° Ut ° f ten before it reaches
* * * *
“Q.E.D.”: I know one branch of Private
Enterprise that could do with gross interference-
viz., the wharf weighbridge system. It is an understood
thing with some agents who deal with (or steal from) the
harassed tiller of the soil to have an “ honorable under
standing’ with the weighbridge clerks. HH ?
nuts edibles say corn, per boat to his agent- the agent
greases the wharf weighbridge-confroller, and so
ensures satisfactory and expeditious short weight in
" eighing-in. Billpm is thus grossly deceived and im-
posed on. In disposing of the produce, more oil is fed
into another bridge, and a check recording overweight is
carefully extracted. Having diddled both the produce?
and consumer thi.swise at little cost, the middleman re?
luctantlv pockets the difference on the two transactioi??
and heatedly indites a letter to the morning press re the
dishonest tendencies of the Labor party lusnectm-c?
What? Oh, yes, they are about, but — P Ct ° rS?
* * * *
| Hard times are ahead for the motor fiend '
Yankeedom has hurled itself into the motor-imkinw biisi'
ness till £40,090,000 are invested in the industryAvldch
aSt Z e^L tumed out worth of cars? There
are 69,000 of them running round the State of New York
alone. The result is that the demand for rubber has
soared up, and with it the price thereof to £B6O per ton-
-50 per cent, more than the figures on which the present
prices of motor tyres are based. The result is inevitable
and already a rise of 2o per cent, has been recorded, with
the sure and certain knowledge that unless some of these
lankee companies break it will go even higher.
MATILDA ANN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Loaded deep with timber she’s
Coinin’ down the bay ;
Breeze is fair and sea is flat,
Thirty miles to-day.
Queer old fish her skipper is—
Ancient sailor-man—
And his rum old hooker’s named
The Matilda Ann.
She is somewhat elderly ;
Once had better days ;
Sails and spars and runnin’ "-ear’s
Patched in many ways.
Now she’s nosin<>-down the coast,
Doin’ pretty good ;
Thirty miles to do to-day,
Twenty ton of wood.
One old deck-hand is the crew
That she takes to sea ;
Cook and mate and cabin boy
He has got to be.
Skipper puts in over-time,
Pumps Matilda dry ;
For the hooker leaks a bit
When the white-tops fly.
Early morn Matilda Ann,
On a summerday ;
Drifted past the inner light,
Bound for Broken Bay.
But the light wind died awav,
Left her in the sun •
Rollin’ in the easy swell,
Twenty miles to run.
“ What a cool and pleasant change !”
City people say.
“ What a splendid southerly,
After yesterday ! ”
Just a piece of battered plank,
Painted dingy g-reen,
Swirling in the undertow.
Casually was seen.
Letters on the underside,
Read them if you can ;
Battered, old and knocked about,
The Matilda Ann.
N.S.W.
FRANK JESSUD.


PHOTOGRAPHY
is the
Hobby of Kings
and the
King of Hobbies.
1
rm
sm
m C
' *v
mg
■■
* f
* ■■ •' * •>.*£ *»&*'& *k /li* •* r* £ W\& >5
.
m
■mmmm
' * t^ll
a#
immM
y&/£ , .
FILM
PHOTOGRAPHY
is EASY
and SURE.
Teach Your Children to Photograph !
One of the most pleasant and profitable of pastimes is photography —a hobby
that grows in attractiveness the more you follow it up. Even young children can
be easily initiated into the art, and they find in it a source of constant pleasure.
It’s a grand way to train the young minds to an appreciation of art, and gives them
a practical insight into a most congenial pursuit.
Buy your children a BROWNIE, and watch their interest grow. The
BROWNIES are splendid Cameras, made by the famous Eastman Co., and
are almost Kodaks.
Simplicity is their keynote, and it is really remarkable what excellent pictures
they produce. The BROWNIE is light, compact and convenient, taking the
popular films, and thus doing away with the darkroom.
Come in and see just what they can do, and bring one of the little ones along
with you. Write for Catalogue if you cannot call.
No. 1 BROWNIE CAMERA
takes admirable pictures, measuring 2 : }in. x 2Jin. It has a
capacity of six exposures, weighs only Boz., arid is very well
made. It is not a mere toy, but a Camera fitted for practical work. Price, 5/- Postage, fid.
No. 2 BROWNIE CAMERA
is equipped with two finders, and covered with a tine quality
imitation leather. The pictures measure 2Jin. x 3iin., and it has
a capacity of six exposures. The lens is a Meniscus'; the shutter an Eastman rotary; and
the Price only 10/-. Postage, 9d. extra.
No. 2A BROWNIE CAMERA
takes pictures measuring l 2Jin. x 4jin., amt is excellent for
landscape compositions. When vised vertically it takes splendid
full-length portraits. It is fitted with a Meniscus achromatic lens, an Eastman rotary shutter,
has a capacity of 12 exposures, and weighs only 21oz. Price, 12/6. Postage, 9d. extra.
Other of these Cameras are the
No. 3 BROWNIE, i-plate, 17/6. No. 2 FOLDING BROWNIE, 21/-
IVo. 3 FOLDING BROWNIE, 37/6.
Then, of course, there are the world-famed Kodaks—the Cameras without a peer.
Ask us about them.
BAKER 8
Sole Agents for
AUSTRALIAN KODAK LIMITED,
379 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne. 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Wellington, New Zealand. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba, Q.
No,GS9l9—Best Quality Silverplated Flower
Stand, £3.
»
■mz
? sSfc^l
i*S
', i£
No. G 855 Quality Silverplafced Chased Cake
Basket, Special Value, £l/10/-
mo*
m&arifr
(AUSTRALIA)
Ltd
THE true value at which we fcuy, the economic conditions under which we work, the
amplitude of our resources, and our determination to give customers the benefit of
every advantage our system places at our command, enables us to guarantee the
quality and value of every article. We do not deal in sham goods, or artificialities of any
description. Even our lowest-priced goods are of sound and genuine quality —just what
they are represented to be,jn materia 1 , make and finish.
We have three Illustrated Catalogues —one dealing solely with Watches, one specially
for all designs of Rings, and the other is our large general 112 page. Either, or all of
(hem, can be had free on application, or will be sent to any address.
No. G 4067— Quality Silverplated
Cake Fork, 2/- each.
No. 358 A—Best Quality
Silverplateci, Chased,
Sugar Basket, £l/7/6.
m
s£m
m;
■H
No. G 3550 —Best Quality Silverplated Chased Suyar, Cream and Cake
or Fruit Stand, £6/10/-
No. E2234—Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 3/6 ; Silverplated, t/-
No. HB52 —Best. Quality Silverplated Flower
Stand. £2/15/-
No. GO7l4 —Silverplate on Nickel Silver
Vegetable Dish, Two Divisions, £l/1//6.
No. J‘292—Best Quality Silverplate.
Our own special design, at the
Manufacturers’ Price, £2/2/*
No. P 563 —Best Quality Silver-
plated Engraved Sugar Scuttle
and Scoop, £l/2/6.
No. 84990 —Best Quality Silverplated Revolving
Vegetable Dish. Each Dish can be removed
and used separately, £6/6/*
No. F6s27—The “Kins James ” Afternoon Tea
Service, with Tray, Silverplated on
Nickel Silver, £5.
No. 388—Silverpiaued Jam Spoon, 3/-
Butter Knife to match, 3/-
No. Gl5O1 —Pearl Handle Solid Silver
Tea Strainer, 10/6.
No. F6l4o—Silverplated Butter Knife, 3/-
No. J3l4—Best Quality Silverplated
Hot Water Kettle, with Spirit
Lamp, £2/15/-


A reliable medicine for croup, and one
that should always be kept on hand for immedi-
ate use is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. VV. GROVE’S signa-
ture is on each box. Is. ljd.* [1
A. reliable medicine for croup, and one
that should always be kept on hand for immedi-
ate use is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
FINNEY
MILLINERY
AT
10/6, 15/6, 211-
YOU know what we mean by
Finney Millinery; we mean
the kind that is always smart,
that has a tone about it, a dash about
it —a something about it that one
can't describe.
No matter what the price you pay
at Finney's, you get a hat of that kind.
We make three special lines which
will appeal to you —at 10/6, 15/6,
21/-
Just tell us which amount you
wish to pay, and the style of hat
that suits you best, and we shall
surprise you with the value in the
hat we'll send.
FINNEY, ISLES
& CQ., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
The Transcontinental Railway and the
Proposed Great Queensland Grab.
It is hard to understand the mental attitude of those
who favor a transcontinental railway via Oodnadatta,
which would achieve the mighty accomplishment of
nothing.
It has been said that the Commonwealth is a federation,
not of men, but of acres. Well, a threadwork of railways
with a common objective, knitting up the different State
systems as filaments of a great skein of intercommuni-
cation, would conduce to that reciprocal knowledge of
one another which would make of parochial politics an
inipossibility.
To this continental system all existing systems must
form integral adjuncts. The bisection of the continent
is no great matter, and has, besides, the questionable
shape of a huge pastoral scheme for the exploitation of
Central Australia.
The transcontinental railway must be lifted out of the
realm of grab and speculative finance. It is a question,
not of the interests of capital, but of the interests of the
people.
All the capitals and large seaport towns must be linked
together, or good-bye to an effectual system of defence.
A railway from Bourke, via Hungerford, Thargomindah
and Camooweal, to Palmerston, in the Northern Terri-
tory, would be one of the surest steps towards the block-
ing of a Japanese invasion of the peaceful occupation of
tropical Australia.
The above extract is from the Brisbane Worker,
but it might equally well be an extract from a
speech by any one of Queensland’s three Tory
senators, Sayers and Chataway and St. Ledger, or
from the utterances of Premier Kids ton or his
new friend Robert Philp.
* * * *
There is a curious streak of humor about the
arguments on which certain Queenslanders base
their demand for the eastern deviation of the
transcontinental railway. It is propounded, in
the first place, that the Commonwealth should
take over the Northern Territory. On the abso-
lute necessity for doing that everybody is agreed,
for Australia’s unguarded back gate is a great and
constant danger. But, having taken over the
Territory at the expense of all Australia, it is
proposed that the Commonwealth should not at
once proceed to develop this great property to the
utmost for the benefit of all Australia. It is
rather proposed that it should build a railway
which will hurry with the greatest available velo-
city out of the Territory, and leave as much as
possible of that property undeveloped ; and pro-
ceed, at the cost of the Commonwealth, to
develop Queensland and (to some small extent)
N.S.W. According to the map of the proposed
eastern deviation, which has of late been lavishly
circulated throughout Australia, it is suggested
that, when the Commonwealth has taken over the
Territory at the expense of Australia generally,
these lines should be constructed:
660 miles of railway in the Territory
1313 ~ ~ Queensland
4SO ~ ~ New South Wales
And it is not proposed that any of the land values
which wiil be created within the borders of
Queensland and N.S.W. should goto the Common-
wealth, nor that these States should sell to the
Commonwealth any of the State lines connecting
with their ports (as S. A. is to do with its Oodna-
datta-Port Augusta dine), nor that they should
grant space for a Federal terminal port (as S.A.
is to do at Port Augusta.) Consequently, the
startling proposition calls for some inquiry.
* * * *■
The alleged object of the deviation is to “link
together ” the great capitals and seaports. The
straightest possible line (from Port Darwin to
Port Augusta) would, as a beginning, make the
shortest possible connection between the empty
and unprotected North and Adelaide. Adelaide
is, in point of population, the third city in the
Commonwealth (it has about 43,000 more people
than Brisbane). It is the third shipping port in
the Commonwealth, while Brisbane is the fifth.
And it stands for a State which beats Queensland
badly in commerce and runs it closely in manu-
factures. Then again, the shortest and cheapest
line—the one from Port Darwin to Port Augusta,
and thence to Adelaide and Melbourne—would
furnish Melbourne and Geelong with quite as
rapid communication with the Northern Terri-
tory as the proposed long and costly deviation,
and would also give Hobart and Launceston quite
as good a road (and a cheaper road) to the North.
Melbourne is the second city and the second sea-
port of the Commonwealth. Hobart, as a port,
ranks ahead of every Queensland coastal town’
save Brisbane and Townsville ; and Geelong is a
place of some little note. Sydney, the biggest
city and biggest port of Australasia, would” be
just about the same distance from Port Darwin
by either route. Also Albany and Fremantle (the
port of Perth), in Westralia, would be brought
closer to the North by the direct Port Darwin-
Port Augusta line than by the eastern deviation,
and if it is a question of linking together capitals
and seaport towns, it may be mentioned that Fre-
mantle comes immediately after Brisbane as a
port, and Albany comes immediately after Towns-
ville. Also, Providence placed them both nearer
to Port Darwin than Brisbane is, therefore, as a
matter of the defence of the North, their close con-
nection with Port Darwin is important. There is
something inexplicable about this clamor for a
railway from Port Darwin to remote Brisbane
when Fremantle, Adelaide, and Port Augusta are
all nearer, and therefore quite as worthy of
consideration.
*** * ’
According to the proposed eastern deviation of
the transcontinental line, N.S.W. would have to
build either a railway from Bourke to the Queens-
land border or one from Cobar to Broken Hili in
order to connect. If the straight line was con-
structed, N.S.W. would have to connect by
building a railway from Cobar to Broken Hill.
In that respect the position of N.S.W. seems
much the same either wav. On the other side of
the case, N.S.W. would have to pay a larger share
of the cost of the transcontinental railway if the
deviation was made, for the whole cost would be
greater. It Would get a line down through the
western (and the driest and least hopeful) part of
its territory, which line would serve chiefly to
give its western trade a short cut to Melbourne.
And the development of the Territory, in
which it would be the largest shareholder,
would be retarded to N.S.W.’s loss. Victoria
and Tasmania would be brought no nearer
to the Territory by the deviation, yet they
would have to pay more towards their share of a
longer and more costly railway ; the development
of the Territory in which they would be share-
holders would be hindered to their loss; and
instead of having ® part interest in a whole
Federal transcontinental line, and in the port at
each end, they would have an interest only in the
port at one end, and would be shareholders in a
Federal line which began at Port Darwin and
ended far inland on the banks of the Murray
or the Darling. S.A. and Westralia would both
lose by the deviation. And one naturally asks
who would gain ?
* * * *
So the main drawbacks of the eastern deviation
may be summarised thus :
(1) It would be longer and more costly.
(2) It couldn’t be of one gauge throughout unless the
eastern States are prepared to do a vast and general
reconstruction of their lines, for it is to have its sea out-
lets in the south and east over the Queensland 3ft. 6in.
line, the N.S.W. 4ft. SJin. line, and the Victorian sft. 3in.
line. So whatever gauge the Federal line is built upon it
must disagree with two of these State gauges. On the
other hand, along the straight line the Commonwealth
would own the railway all the way, and could make it
any gauge it pleased from sea to sea.
(3) The deviation would leave the southern end of the
Commonwealth railway to end somewhere in the interior
of the country, and it would have no access to the sea in
the south or east, save over the State lines.
(4) The deviation would not only destroy the idea of
having a Federal line all across Australia', hut also the
hope of having a Federal port at each end of that line.
(5) The deviation would bring one State capital
(Brisbane) closer to Port Darwin. It would possibly
bring another (Sydney) a shade closer. It would
bring-two (Melbourne and Hobart) no closer. It would
make two (Adelaide and Perth) much more remote. And
as a mere matter of distance, judged as the crow flies,
Adelaide and Perth are the capitals to which the North
must look first for assistance in case of invasion.
(6) The eastern deviation would involve building the
greater part of the transcontinental line, not through the
Territory for the development of the property of all Aus-
tralia, but through State lands.
(7) There is a sort of desert to be crossed ip any case,
but the deviation would go through more desert and
through quite as dry a desert as the direct line.
Therefore one asks, naturally, who is to profit by
the deviation, and it seems that the only profit—
and that may yet prove a wholly imaginary
profit—would go to Queensland. Queensland
would get many hundreds of miles, of rail-
way built in its State at the cost of the
Commonwealth. The transcontinental railway
would be brought so far east that Towns-
ville would be connected with Port Darwin with-
out Queensland building a single mile of railway
at its pwn cost. Rockhampton would (le con-
nected with Port Darwin by the mere building of
150 miles, and Brisbane by the mere building of
170 miles on to the existing State systerri In
other words, the back country of Queensland
would be opened up with a vast amount of line
built by Australia generally in State
Townsville, Rockhampton and Brisbane would fie
connected with each other, and they would ajl
WATER VIEW 100 MLEES WEST OF ALICE SPRINGS , CENTRAL AUSTRALIA,
NEAR THE PROPOSED PORT AUGUSTA-PORT DARWIN RAILWAY.
three be connected also with Sydney and Mel-
bourne, all at Australia’s expense. These Queens-
land ports would get a not much longer road
to the Northern Territory if the straight,
short, cheap transcontinental railway was built;
but then, instead of the Australian-owned
line diverging east at Australia’s expense
tOiConnect with the Queensland system, Queens-
land would require to build its lines westward at
its own expense to connect with the Australian
railway system. In this matter a little outside
State like Tasmania is apt to remark that it
dpesn’t see why it should contribute towards the
building of so many miles of line in Queensland,
seeing that it isn’t part-owner of Queensland ; and
it is inclined to add that Queensland can afford to
build its own lines.
* * * -*
The conspiracy to leave South Australia out in
the cold in this matter of the transcontinental
railway looks rather ungrateful. When neither
N.S.W. nor Queensland would have the Territory
at any price, S. A. recklessly shouldered the bur-
den, and probably saved the North from becoming
a nigger-infested appanage of India. The British
Government stipulated for the building of the
railway from Adelaide to Port Darwin as
one of the conditions on which it would perma-
nently transfer the Territory to Australia,
and but for the valiant (and foolish) effort which
S. A. made to fulfil that condition, the Terri-
tory would most likely have been resumed by
Britain long ago. Then in all human probability
there would have been no Commonwealth, no
White Australia, no Labor party (for with the
cheap nigger in the land there isn’t much room
for a Labor party), and no Brisbane Worker.
South Australia began to realise the White Aus-
tralia gospel fairly early; even as far back as 20
years ago it was keeping its own country and the
Territory fairly clean as compared with the con-
dition of Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria and
Maoriland. It never deserved the name of
Kanakaland as Queensland did. It led the way
in Factory legislation, and it is the only State
which has put a strong Labor Government into
power and kept it there for over four years. S. A.
deserves better luck than to find a Kanakaland
Labor paper going into camp against it along
with Sayers and Chataway and St. Ledger and
Philp and Kidston. It deserves better luck than
to have its unfinished transcontinental line left on
i fco ' hands as a bad debt, seeing that that line
represented a great effort to keep faith with the
British Government, and it was almost certainly
the attempt to keep faith which prevented the
Territory becoming a nigger-cursed Crown colony.
And as for the suggestion of the Brisbane Labor
paper that the only way to prevent the trans-
continental railway being “a huge pastoral scheme
for the exploitation of Central Australia ” is to
divert the line out of the State which produced
Price, McPherson, Kingston and many other
good democrats, and which also produced the first
graduated land-tax and the first .successful Labor
Ministry, and to bring it at grdst extra cost into
the State which produced Glassey, Dawson,
Philp, Drake, Kidston and the Kanaka policy,
it seems rather a low-down business. In fact it
looks an indecent rushing, from purely provincial
motives, into the camp of Sayers and Chataway
and St. Ledger, and people of that sort.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 4, 1909.
Mr Dear Thargominoah,—
Our Commander Richardson has been made a
captain and a commandant. It is rather a
distinction without a difference, as he seems
to have been at the same job for some time now.
But I suppose its nicer to have the official stamp
upon you. This sort of thing is like society : “To
be in it is merely a bore, but to be out of it is a
tragedy.” The powers that be might have given
the cheerful Curtis his other half stripe. Can it
be that these dark remarks about onions—but no !
Such a thing is impossible.
With the first break of spring the southern
flittings commence. The Cecil Palmers are off in
a week or so. and other flitters are the Knox
family and several more.
The jubilee effort of Queensland could not be
called an exhaustive one, but a few persons took
themselves seriously and got a move on. The
local Art Society, for instance, made a surprising
break, and its annual show is really a credit, not
the least interesting items being the caricatures of
Souter, “Hop” and Norman Lindsay. Franky
Payne shows some nice figure work and a little
glimpse of Paris ; but the feature of the local work
lies in the many exhibits of Miss Isobel Townley,
just back from the Straits Settlement. Her output
includes fakirs, Chinese josses, temple gates and
some really dainty,bits of heathenesse in general, all
done with a light and airy touch like unto that of
a fairy walking on eggs. After many years’ absence
Datillo Rubbo is again represented, while Lillian
Chauvel. Bessie Gibson and a host of other old
Brisbane girls assist.
The O’Reilly clan has been feeding the multi-
tude this week in honor of the coming brides,
Misses Callan and Macdonald. Miss Beryl Mant
is another of the tea-givers. Other diversions
since I wrote last have included a pleasant little
shed dance at the stronghold of the Commercials,
and a hop at the Willcocks mansion, whereat the
hours were chased on flying feet until the clock
struck (for higher wages), and the night failed (it
paid nothing in the £) and the day broke (its
neck, I expect).
Trust the dearly beloved brethren for getting
someone else to do the major portion of the toil.
Their d evices are as ingenious as those of
the heathen in his blindness. Recently the local
fire escapes wanted 10,000 circulars addressed.
Did they give the job to some hard-up little
typist ? Not they ! They selected some half-
dozen of their most attractive curates; and the
curates rounded up about 30 females, who, on
promise of having a curate each to play with, were
beguiled into doing the pen-scratching. A society
par in a local daily gravely chronicled the fact
that at Mrs. Blank Blankton’s tea the last of the
envelopes were superscribed.
The Staughton dame and her chick, who have-
been putting in August in Brisbane, have de-
parted to their native fields. The chick aforesaid
was a pleasure to look at, with her bright cheeks,
and well-cut wrappings. Also she had an air of
well-being, as if the world bloomed in bright tints
just for the asking.
Another monster bazaar threatens. This time
it is the Sisters of All Hallows that are the mov-
ing spirits, and the proceeds are to be for the com-
pletion of the new Mater Misericordiae Hospital.
The said building already constitutes a landmark:
upon the south side of Stephen’s Hill. The pro-
ject has the whole-hearted support of G. W. Gray..
E. B. Forrest, Peter Murphy, and such good,
workers in charity’s cause.
Those whose business it was to lighter the-
stranded Waipara had a fine exhibition, last,
week, of the shark power of Moreton Bay. Much
of the frozen mutton became so tired that it was.
a case of either throwing it overboard or the sal-
vage crew going on strike. It went over, and it is-
solemnly declared that the bay was paved with
sharks when the first carcase was half-way between,
the bulwarks and the water.
The German gunboat Condor that didn’t find!
the long-lost Seestern is back again, and the town,
is full of Kaiser Wilhelm’s cheerful, bearded
middies.
There was a very angry lady at a certain city tea-
house, the other day. A tea-fight was in full
bloom. The waitress had heen handing round- the
strawberries, and thus there was a pause in the
conversation. “Pardon me, madam,” said a
junior assistant, confidentially yet audibly, “but
your husband is waiting on the telephone.” The
lady looked slightly flustered, and fled to the wire.
On her return, she murmured to her hostess some-
thing about “dear George” having a letter tor
her, and that she must really be going, hare-
wells were said amid a general smile, the meaning
of which the lady was unable to unravel until she
caught sight of the husband aforesaid at a table
near the door, and in full sight of the party she
had just quitted. Who was it on the wire?
Parliament is prorogued and the dogs of war
are loose. Now comes that fine opportunity for
mutual plain speaking that is with us only once
in a while, when the enlightened voter is master
of the situation and can vent his or her feelings
without fear that lasting offence will arise through
his utterances. To bail-up your member in the
street on an ordinary summer day and tell him he
is a miserable ass would be actionable ; but just
now your voice is lost amid so many, all telling him
the same palpable truth, that nothing seriouscomes
of it. Already there is the usual rush for the spoil.
The Toowong-shunted Macartney is to be the
second horse in the Tory team for Brisbane North,
while up against this representation of Stoutness
will be, if all reports are true, Mayor Wilson, as
a straight-out Labor man. The second Laborite
has so far not been announced.
Old man Hanran. who for the past 10 years has
helped Pliilp to represent Townsville, threw up
things in general last week and retired in favor of
Fenwick. He is a kindly old soul, and few
in the House wasted less of the country’s time in
conversation. The party rallied round and told
him some nice things about himself, and cor
roborated them with a purse of sovereigns.
Hanran was much moved, and said exactly what
he has said in the House for 10 years—which is
nothing.
Sincerely yours,
MABIO.
One more trial shipment of 1500 quarters
of chilled Bananaland beef is being sent to John
Bull by the Marathon. Previous shipments from
Australia were complete failures, and two lots
from Maoriland were not much better. The
cattle will be killed four days before the vessel
leaves, and the voyage will take 60 days. If the
experiment is successful, it will mean a big thing
for the Commonwealth, which hitherto has had
to freeze its cow before exporting her; and freezing
is a much more costly business than chilling,
though it’s all the same to the cow.
In the Jap Quarter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LOTUS land, lanterns alight
Spread in a gay colored row.
The “Who is it?” hour of night,
Azaleas that wave to and fro,
The flutter of fans, the glow
Of fabulous things, a scene
Smokers of opium know—
This is the soul of a screen.
The geisha, butterfly bright
With obi and wonderful bow,
Lorn for, the honorable knight,
Waits in the tea-house below
The bamboo bridge. ... He will go,
Two-sworded, reckless of mien,
To fight for his love, friend or foe.
This is the soul of a screen.
Passions that mortals excite
Are but as blossoms that blow
Dreams of desire and delight.
This was a love long ago. . .
Time is illusion. Andlo!
Softly the hours slip between,
Lulled by the tropic sea’s flow—
This is the soul of a screen.
We are but dream shapes, I trow,
Wafted through Fancy’s demesne.
Fleeting as Fuji’s soft snow —
This is the soul of a screen.
QUEENSLAND.
LOUIS ESSON.


THE INDUSTRIAL TWINS—COAL AND IRON.
“ Queensland coal-bearing strata are of vast extent
and wide distribution.” — Mr. Knibbs, Com-
monwealth Statistician.
In Ipswich and Burrum districts there is a coal-
bearing and coal-yielding territory larger than
either Servia, Greenland, Belgium, Denmark
or Switzerland, and as large as Greece.
With all these enormous deposits, Queensland only
produces about three-quarters of a million tons
of coal annually.
England, with only 9000 sq. miles, of coal-fields,
produces annually
251 MILLIONS OF METRIC TONS.
In one area of five square miles, the Government
Geologist estimates that there are■ 50 MIL-
LIONS OF TONS OF COAL in sight in
Queensland.
In one mound of 200 ft. high, near Cloncurry, with
a diameter of a mile, there are 10\ MILLION
TONS of pure iron ore.
Below the roots of this mountain are iron veins.
In America, kingly revenues arc poured into the
laps of individuals like Carnegie by the iron
and steel industries.
The value of the iron product in the U.S.A. was, in
1905, TWO HUNDRED MILLIONS sterling.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXXVI.
FORTUNES IN COAL AND IRON.
By J. D. FITZGERALD. Barrister-at-Law.
“ Br-oop and iron ” were the ingredients employed
by the great Bismarck in making the German
Empire. “Coal and iron” are necessary in-
gredients in maintaining a nation which is
marked out for a great industrial future. How
stands Queensland in regard to these foundational
products? Says Mr. Knibbs, the Commonwealth
statist:—
In Queensland the coal-bearing strata are of vast ex-
tent and wide distribution, being noted under the greater
portion of the south-eastern districts, within 200 miles of
the sea, as far nortli as Cooktown, and under portions of
the far western interior.
The Ipswich and Burrum districts have 24,000
square miles of coal-bearing country, a territory
larger than Servia, Greenland, Belgium, Den-
mark, Switzerland, and as large as Greece.
There are also huge deposits of iron, which is
used in the reduction processes in connection with
gold and copper production. The Giant State
thus possesses the keel of a great industrial
future, firmly laid. One of these days she will
become the largest field in the world for the in-
vestor in industrial enterprises. The problems of
industrial advancement have not become acute
yet. We are still mainly primary producers ; but
we can imagine what the future will bring forth
in the exploitation of the hidden, or half-hidden,
wealth which lies beneath the surface of the soil,
ready to yield its spoils to the capitalist, and to
SAPPHIRE TOWN—WHERE THE LOVELY GEMS COME FROM.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
VICTORIA BRIDGE, OVER THE BRISBANE RIVER (AT THAT POINT
WIDER THAN THE THAMES).
give a market to the thews and sinews of the
worker. The principal coalfields at present under
exploitation are in the Ipswich district, near to a
fertile and beautiful agricultural, pastoral and
sugar country, and with easy access to the wharves
and shipping of Brisbane by land carriage.
The development of coal mining has been slow,
but a steadily-increasing output is coming as year
follows year/ That may be seen from the figures,
The production of coal in 1861 was 14,212 tons, in
1871, 17,000 tons. This small output grew to
65 6 i2 tons in 1881, to 271,603 in 1891; to 539.472
tons in 1901, 606,772 in 1906, and 683,272 in 1907.
The coal-mining industry is thus seen to he a
baby, with illimitable possibilities of growth in
the future. In this, as in other matters, the com-
niuna j services of democracy lend a hand. The
Government of the State, representing a busi-
ness democracy, allows concessions to ships which
coal at Queensland ports. The output will grow
PICKING SAPPHIRES IN THE GEM COUNTRY IN QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
WASHING SAPPHIRES.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
by leaps and bounds. When the industry gets
fairly going, the proximity of Queensland ports to
the great hives of the East will be found of the
greatest- advantage. Sea-carriage of coal from
Queensland ports to ports like Hongkong,
Manila, Tandjong Priok (Java), and Taudjong
Pagar (Singapore) must have an advantage in
cheapness over coal borne over longer distances.
And the quality of the Queensland coal is first-
class, especially the fine anthracite deposits of the
Central District.
In the Bundanba district, near Brisbane,
where the chief coal mining operations of the
State are carried on, a very high standard of
development exists. The most up-to-date
CARYOTA URENS PALMS, KAMERUNGA STATE NURSERY, CAIRNS, N!
Photo. by Mobsby.
machinery is in use, including electrical coal-
cutting machines. There are 1000 miners em-
ployed ; and these are but a regiment of the
army which will some day be employed in cutting
the coal from these beds. The quality of the coal
and its suitableness to the varied uses of the pro-
duct have now been well ascertained. The Wide
Bay and Maryborough coal measures are next to
Bundanba in point of development, producing
over 80,000 tons annually. The Central District
of Queensland produces anthracitic coal, which
has been subjected to severe tests by the British
Admiralty authorities, who report strongly in its
favor, and by the Mount Morgan Company, which
declares that, burned with forced draught, it is an
excellent coal. But we have the abnormal
element again in this, as in gold, in this
wonderful State. The Queensland Government
Geologist, after investigating the deposits of coal
at Callide Creek, not far from the Dawson River
District, estimates that in an area of five square
miles there is a wonderful deposit of fifty million
tons of coal. These only await the co-operation of
capital and labor and commercial methods to get
a share of tile markets of the world—or, at any
rate, of that quarter of the globe which looks out
on the seas flowing southwards to the break
against the Barrier Reef.
The capitalists of all countries generally com-
bine a certain amount of imagination with those
coarser, but very necessary, qualities of common-
sense and business acumen. This combination of
qualities has given the woi'ld a wonderful impulse
in wealth production, When we hear of the re-
strictions which are placed upon the development
of the native wealth of countries like New Cale-
donia and Siberia, owing to a fatuous political
system, and contrast the obstacles imposed upon
those new countries with the facilities and the
assistance offered to the investor by an intelligent
democratic Government, the wonder is that the
great resources of Queensland have been allowed
so long to remain in the bowels of the earth.
With the least imaginative faculty enabling them
to
Pip into the future, far as human eye can see,
See the vision of the world, and all the wonder that
will he,
they will speedily prepare a future for the great
Queensland mineral industries, which will keep a
prosperous people employed in raising yaw weal th
from the ground. And, when the coal and tiie
iron and the juxtaposed limestone (providential
geological combination) are won and “gotten”
from the ground, there will be a fresh circle of
home industries created, in the processes which
follow the bringing together of the raw ingredients
of industrial riches.
Again, in relation to iron, we have to face the
abnormal. Iron Island is, it is said by high
authority, capable of yielding 2% million tons of
hematite (iron ore) ; Mount Leviathan, at -Clon-
curry, from the base upwards to 200 ft. at the
summit, shows a deposit estimated at million
tons of pure hematite ore, and like Mount
Morgan, when the summit is levelled, that is only
the removal of the cap of the deposit, and the
roots of the mountain are great ore beds,
Chromite and magnetite exist in varying quanti-
ties in every district of the State. Immense
deposits of limestone occur in all the metalliferous
zones. It needs no special powers of imagination
to conjure up the wonderful industrial develop-
ment of the future. We may measure the possi-
bilities by the work done in Mount Morgan,
The superhuman energy applied in the wonder
mine by the hands of men, by the throbbing
machinery, and by the lubrication of the
works by the oil of stored-up capital, is
not exhausted in the search for gold and copper,
Gold is the more easily realisable product, doubt-
less. But larger fortunes have been made in the
iron and steel trades. Next to the oil men in the
United States, the ironmasters are the richest
citizens. Andrew Carnegie gives away universi-
ties and libraries, and builds shrines to the Inter-
national Peace idea, and all his wealth has come
to him from the huge returns won by the exploita-
tion of coal and iron.
These huge fortunes, these more than lungly
revenues, which have been poured into the laps of
individuals like Carnegie, are the fruits of the new
industrial age —the age of coal and iron and steel,
and machinery—the age of development and ex-
pansion of bridge-building and railway construc-
tion and leviathan steamships. If Queensland can
boast of her tens of thousands of square miles of
country with ascertained coal measures, the indus-
trial prophet can, with easy vaticination, point
out her marvellous future, remembering that
England produces annually, from 9000 square
miles of coal fields, no less than 251 millions metric
tons (of 22051 b); France, with 1800 miles of coal-
bearing country, 34 million tons ; and Germany,
with 3000 square miles, million tons.
In the same line of exploitation we see. the
tremendous strides made in iron and steel produc-
tion in the United [States. The capital in the
U.S.A. invested in this industry rose in five years,
between 1900 and 1905, from £110,000,000 to
£189,"00,000, while the. value of the product in the
last year named was approximately £200,000,000
sterling. It is this tremendous development of
natural wealth which has made the United States
the industrial portent which she is to-day—a
country where the individuals who have been
rewarded iri the industrial uplift with wealth be-
yond the dreams of avarice are now beginning to
learn how to use it wisely. Thus we have splen-
did endowments of American cities with parks
and noble institutions, universities, science research
colleges, slum destruction and scientific rebuild-
ng, and garden cities.
Queensland’s day is to come. There may be
poor lads to-day in Scotland who might become
the O-irnegies of the industrial future of Queens-
land if they immigrated. The era of the develop-
ment of these great resources is coming with a
sure crescendo. Before 20 years have gone over
our heads we will see the smoking chimneys and
hear the ringing hammers of a great industrial
hive in Queensland. We shall have our steel
works, rolling mills and Bessemer plants. In
beginning our iron industry in Queensland we
have not to feel our way blindly, as the Americans
had. We are the heirs of the ages in scientific
knowledge, and we shall start at the stage which
the United States, the United Kingdom, Belgium,
Germany and France have reached. Moreover,
to the foreign investor there is the encourage-
ment which he may expect to receive from a sym-
pathetic Government, whose services ajrid whose
officers are at his beck and call. It is the greatest
pity in the world that the concessionaries who
suffer discouragement from the crass governmental
policy of the French in New Caledonia do not
tear up their papers and cross to the great island
continent. If they did, they would find a wider
scope, richer fields, abundance of raw material, a
race of white workers who have performed with
their picks and shovels miracles like unto those of
the genii of the Arabian tales, and a settled and
intelligent system of government, which will give
them every possible assistance in the profitable
employment of their capital or their labor. Ihe
world has yet to learn the rich rewards that await
the bold investor in Queensland coal and iron
ventures.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. ( £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126.105.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Erkaiantlk Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers,
AUSTRALIA E N GLAN D.
ORSOVA .
OTWAY
OSTERLEY
ORVIETO
OTRANTO
ORONTES
OMRAH
OPHIR
ORMUZ
Twin-Screw
12,036 Tons.
12,077 „
12,129 ~
12,000 ~
12,124 „
9,023 „
8,282 ~
6,814 ~
6,465 ..
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial IDutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
EOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
*l9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000. ■
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
j) an k of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREAONEEOLE STREET, E.O.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 72,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Gen. -Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
CTpon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
$
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
Ibis Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.w.
[flontdepietefl
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH S I'., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
EXECUTORS
The trustees.
AJiD
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collin B-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages)' .. .. £35,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Chairman •
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon.’
Thomas Skelie*; 'J. H. MacFarland, Esq.', M.*A., LL.I).
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager,
FREIiK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
RUPTURE
Do' you buffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. Then gen d tor particulars
our perfectfitting
Automatic air Cushion appliance
Vhe Best Ruptur; Applianc; of the Centu iy
Twj Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre ;
WINSLOW CO.j 261 Collins St., MelbournejVic
Shipping.
ord
eutscher
Ivloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen,
oeagoing qualities—Maximum Speed,
Safety anti Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
une A^prits,
, LOHMANN & CO.,
6 95. 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of ||eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. .. £2 000 000
Uncalled Capital ./ isoo’oOO
Reserve Fund aiid Undivided Profits £710,998
GRANTS DRAFTS on Aus G'»lia, New Zea-
r , Wn«riO land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. •
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
September 29.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 27 (taking- passengers for
the Melbourne Cup).
RUNIC, MEDIC, and AFRIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation*
FARES—Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne 17 6
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Daiyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€~4B€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3x 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOLIPAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo tc
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP <fc CO., Ltd., lO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
V ' Ul< f oUB ■ t ° Settlel ' S ° r intendin - sectl ™ the land, a few of
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during:
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
...T- t*nuresupon which the Advance Department may lend are:—(l) Freeholds (2) Certificated Pnn
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), Uncertificated Conditional
with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections(beforeor after
pJrchaleUases" 163 ' Crant) ' (5) Settlement Leases, %) Settlement PuTchases^fconditS
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
T nl Jf,?o e r P n rtn !i en f ,llak r ad ;: ances u Pt° £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest. 11
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moor§. Street, Sydney.
Zaw Points
inventory
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning- the obtaining of Patents,
and tbe best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it
(including drawings, etc.). No charge made for such re-
port, and allcommunications treated strictly confidential.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
“ Rialto,” Collins Street, Melbourne.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
9
MOHRiSS I
iirse Witches
CIGARETTES
for
Made
London
■3S; tta
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
Hotels, &c.
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
FOSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Wm. Atkins & Go. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana (from Pre-
mantle), September 29,
calling' at all N.-West
- Ports to Wyndham.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
S.S. Marloo, October 5.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Pores North fco Oairns.
S.S. Grantala, Sept. 18.
S.S. Yongala, Sept. 25.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields «
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
!. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Asrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
AND VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing' the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Agents, George-screet, Sydney.
Music
and Mirth !
The opportunities for enjoying a good,
hearty laugh or listening to excellent music,
excellently sung, have wonderfully increased
since the introduction of the Edison Phono-
graph.
Every home with one of these machines
becomes a place of melody and mirth, because
among the genuine Edison Records you will
find any kind of entertainment represented.
Stirring band marches, witty dialogues,,
catchy coon songs, pretty lullabies, favorite
old ballads, new songs and selections—all
are available on the Edison.
You certainly should have one for the
coming season—when you will want to be
agreeably entertained without stirring far
for it.
Write for a list of machines and records
and the name of your nearest dealer. He will
let you hear how good the Edison Records are
On the Edison
Phonograph.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
E Ml Wl 3
NORTON
[ Cartridges.
| British made*
1 .22 Long
s and
H, Short
range Re-
cords will be
improved by us-
ing these Cartridges!
The best Rifle Shots
all use them. Sold by
Ammunition Dealers.
Agents :
THE COLONIAL
AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA
■
Medlcator. size
3i inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages •which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures llie sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
_ Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
ON THE HOP ’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.


3
oc
si
»
5*
1
*
B?
1
2:
ft.
Pd
FROM
111.5
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABUS
FROM
£.11.5.
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
AKock&C" 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
\
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
397 George Street.
ini
m
t
1 H
Ifllllli
All progressive Hardware and Sporting
Goods Merchants handle STEVENS.
If you cannot obtain please let us know.
Send for 160 Page Illustrated Cata-
logue. Replete with STEVENS and
general firearm information. Striking
cover in colors.
J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL CO.,
546 Broadway,
Chicopee Falls, Mass., U.S.A.
Combination Couch and Bed.
~ iinwniiMiiiiniiiißiiiiMiiiiwiMiiiiii « m ■■ ■ m^m nw^—'T—
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
n *
V V
CLOSED AS COUCH.
r'3
■s.
■sSfe
aa Ca^
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. • in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 Iss. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
£5OO FREE
For CORRECT
ANSWERS.
We ask not One
Penny of your Money
We intend to giveaway to
those who can supply thecorrec;
names of these two well-known
English Towns.
cotf)
This is your opportunity. Send us your solution at once, and if
correct we will send you an order for the ; or if more than
one correct answer is received, the will De divided. We
mean just what we say, We also wish to impress upon any who
may be suspicious owing to the unusual generosity of this propo-
sition, that there is no catch word or scheme iir it to deceive or
disappoint you. Frankly, we have adopted this method of giving
cash and premiums simply to interest you in and advertise our
business. We want to enlist your services, and you cannot help
being impressed with the generosity of our business methods.
To those who are fortunate enough to supply the correct solu-
tion, we require to sell 20 of our Aluminium Egg Separators, at
6d. each, for which service we give Watches and Chains, Photo
Cameras, &c., in fact, you can furnish your home without it
costing you a penny of your own money. Remember, all we require of you is:—Send us
your solution of the puzzle; if correct we will send you your Cash Reward and 20 Egg
Separates; you then sell the Separators, return us our money, and receive your Watch or
the Premium you choose. Remember, we do not send the 20 Separators unless your answer
is correct. Can we be fairer ? We take all risks. It costs you nothing to try.
ALUMINIUM M’F’gJ CO., Dept. 352 > George St„ Sydney, N.S.W.
NO RATS or MICE SEEN
Since using- DANYSZ VIRUS. Discovered at the
Pasteur Institute, Paris. See testimonials.
Single Tubes, 26, five for 10/- Post Free from
DANYSZ VIRUS,
454-6 FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE,
and 13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Harmless toother animals. All chemists and storekeepers.
U.s.ptf
Are You Tired of
Mending Your Roof?
GENASCO
READY ROOFINC
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt,
and gives you long years of
service. Doesn’t dry-out, crack,
pulverise, rot, nor rust.
Saves You Trouble,
Time and Money.
Made by The Barber Asphalt Paving
Company —the largest producers of asphalt
and largest manufacturers of ready roofing
in the world.
MINERAL AND SMOOTH SURFACE.
Come and Get Samples.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
385-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR DOCTOR
i
l
m
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Our modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do tout little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
thing’s he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation' or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worßs wßile you sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as £1 in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you. want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liße BEING a Man ! . . vSend the COUPON to-dav.
or CALL for Free Consultation. Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Gastlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1


The Victorian Government Statist has
issued another part or two of his Year Book ; and
one of them deals with the municipalities.
Among other things there is a statement of the
population of the shires into which the country
districts are cut up ; and this is how the first three
entries compare with the first three in the dead-
and-gone Hayter’s Year Book for 1892 :
Here and there the Victorian country population
has been added to during these last 16 years ; but
mostly the record reads like the first three entries
in the list. For 16 years Victoria has been crying
for a progressive land-tax ; for 16 years the State’s
own Year Book figures have been yelling louder
and louder for the same thing; but instead of a
progressive land-tax and population the country
gets T. Bent and John Weary. And they’re
mighty poor substitutes.
Amusements.
T H E A TRE ROYAL. SYDNEY.
* Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING.
BLAND HOLT & COMPANY
in the Great Drury Lane Melo-Farce,
THE FLOOD TiD E,
or THE TALE OF AN ADVENTURESS.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plans at Elvy’s.
UER MAJESTY'S THEATRE. SYDMEY.
■ * Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 7:50.
THE NEW MUSICAL ROMANCE,
THE KING' OP CADONIA.
Interpreted by' THE J. C. WILLIAMSON NEW COMIC
OPERA COMPANY.
l‘rices as Usual, Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
w Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors : Clvdk Meynkll & John Gunn.
EVENINGS at 8. Wednesday a Saturday at 1.45 p.m.
STILL RUNNING MERRILY.
THE OPERATIC SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME
CINDERELLA.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sale at White Rose.
yH E LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s fid,
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at S ;> Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s. Is Gd, Is, & fid. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
3 Y D N E Y GLACIA R I U M.
HEAL ICE~SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY-10 to 12 a.m., 3 to 5 p.m.,
and 8 t 0.10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION,.2s. ; CHILDREN, Morning and Afternoon
: only, Is. SKATE HIRE, 6d.
SATURDAY MORNlNG—Admission, Children Gd.
THE GLACIARIUM, George St., opp. Railway Station.
Phone 492, Glebe. Dunbar Pool k, Manager.
gj»IJOU PICTURE PALACE
■“ (Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
• EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
RONALD GEORGE, English Instrumentalist.
CAPT. WINSTON’S PERFORMING SEALS.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Comedy Sketch Artists.
CHARLES J. JOHNSON, Corner Man & Cake Walker.
THREE SPRIGHTLY SISTERS, Comediennes & Dancers.
THE KREMKA BROS., Eccentric and Comedy Acrobats.
VAUDE and VERNE, Clever Patter Comedians.
ROCHFORT and HART. Mr. TED KALMAN.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
n PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
ROSINA CASSELLI and HER PERFORMING DOGS.
BROW and ROBINSON, Amusing and Novel Act.
MERTON and RYDON, Comedy Artists.
FLORENCE and LILLIAN, Musical Artists.
MISS NELLIE MAUNSELL.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
Amusements
CASTLES’ AUSTRALIAN TOUR, 1909.
AMY CASTLES,
“THE AUSTRALIAN JENNY LIND.”
ADELAIDE TOWN HALL—
SEPTEMBER 9 and 11.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL—
SEPTEMBER 18, 21, 23 and 25.
BRISBANE, H.M. THEATRE—
OCTOBER 2, 4 and 5.
Tout- under the Direction of J. & N. TALL
yH E MAN OF THE HOUR.
EXPRESS TOUR OF THE ANTIPODES
BY MR. JOHN
FOSTER FRASER
“ The Most Engaged and Most Engaging Talker
on the Lecture Platform to-day.”
BENDIGO, SEPTEMBER 9 & 10.
SYDNEY, Y.M.C.A. HALL, Beginning MONDAY,
SEPTEMBER 13.
DUNEDIN, HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
OCTOBER 2,4, 5, and 6.
CHRISTCHURCH, WELLINGTON and AUCKLAND
TO FOLLOW.
For Further Particulars see Daily Press.
CARLYLE SM.Y.THE.
pBLJCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson'.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 11,
SHERLOCK LI OLM E S
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Cast includes G. S. TITIIERADGE, THOMAS
KINGSTON, ETHEL WARWICK, DOROTHY
GRIMSTON.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
LfIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
1 * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS OF
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S ROYAL
COMIC OPERA CO. in
TILE DUCHESS OE DANTZIC
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
I“HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 11.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
in Shakspeare’s Comedy,
AS YOU LIKE IT.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
“ Sole Lessee and Manager—William Andkiison.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in Mr. Jo Smith’s Story of Australian Life
THE BUS HWOM A N.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHENAUM HALL, MELBOURNE
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
vJ. &N. TAJ T’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
A Complete Change of Programme Weekly.
Popular Prices. First.-Olass Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s. I
OF WINTER SPORTS.
ICE SKATING.
Melbourne GL AG IA MUM,
EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES THE b^lll.
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
BRISBANE CITY PROPERTY
MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, at 11 o’clock.
Magnificent City Block
OPPOSITE STOCK EXCHANGE.
THE ONLY CORNER AVAILABLE IN QUEEN STREET.
THREE FRONTAGES- 55 ft. to QUEEN STREET, 45 ft. 4in. to LITTLE QUEEN ST.,
and 71ft. 8 in. to EAGLE LANE.
ISLES, LOVE & CO. and CAIYIERON BROS, will sell (in conjunction) as above, aS
the POST OFFICE AUCTION MART, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
Sub. I, 2 and 3 of Allotments 2 and 3 of Section 31, Parish of North Brisbane
RTTTTr%?M ,^! pr ‘*, V ? r^entS co ™Pi'ise a SUBSTANTIAL BLOCK of THREE (3) STORIED BRICK
uuiijLUNdS, and, being lighted on three sides, every foot o£ the Property can be used to advantage.
This Grand Property is practically Unique, being opposite the Stock
Exchange, in the centre of the Insurance and Banking quarter of
t \’ e C '* y ’ sncl5 ncl the only corner «« Queen Street which can be pur-
chased at any price at present
and produces an aggregate rental of £1,050 per annum.
U<l6 . Aa „°h® n & Munich Fire Insurance Company, The Australian
Widows Fund Life Office, Messrs. Come & Company, and others.
f pecia ' ly fav in the way of lighting; the Offices let readily, are
Mught after by gTOd tenants, and, as rentai values are on the increase in Brisbane, the VENDORS
WILL GUARANTEE THE RENTAL OF £lO5O PER ANNUM FOR FIVE (5) YEARS from
tne date of Sale.
**The AUCTIONEERS have obtained instructions to realise at an upset price
-chat will mean AN ABSOLUTELY SOUND and PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
PLANS ON APPLICATION. TERMS AT SALE.
Messrs. Thynne & Macahtney, Solicitors for the Vendors.
The Union Bank of Australia Limited.
♦
Balance-Sheet, 27th February, 1909.
liabilities.
Capital, £4,500,000; less
reserve liability-,
£3,000,000; paid up. ..£1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund—invested
in the names of trus-
tees—as per contra,
£1,000,000 ; not specifi-
cally invested, £270,000 1,270,000 0 0
Balance of undivided
profits 143,005 16 7
—£2,913,005 16 7
Circulation £474,072 0 0
Deposits (including in-
scribed stock deposits) 19,322,079 9 3
Bills payable and other
liabilities(including re-
serves held against
doubtful debts) 2,052.003 0 1
21,848,154 9 4
£24,761,160 5 11
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances r k
Bullion and advances on bullion 243,39 b 6 o
Money at call and short notice in London 485,000 0 u
Investments —
Reserve Fund —Consols,
£750,000; local loans
(Imperial Government
stock), £250,000 £1,000,000 0 0
Other investments— ,
Consols, and other
stocks of, or guaran teed
by, the Imperial Gov-
ernment, £241,297125.;
IndiaGovernmenb ster-
ling- stocks, £223,072;
Colonial Government
and municipal stocks
and debentures,
£203,571 ss. 2d 667,940 17 2
1,667,940 17 2
Balance of remittances and drafts in
transitu, and bills receivable at London
office 3,602,569 6 7
£9,840,416 16 3
Bills discounted, loans and other securi-
ties at the branches and in London 14,348,286 11 5
Bank premises and pro-
perty in the colonies.... £461,843 2 9
Less appropriation from
profits 10,000 0 0
451,543 2 9
London leasehold premises £142,304 19 4
Reserves against same and
accrued interest 21,691 3 10
120,613 15 6
£24,761,100 5 11
Statement of Profits
Balance of undivided profits on 31st August, 1908 ' £142,444 3 9
Less dividend and bonus—January, 1909 ” 105,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of £37,444 3 9
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful
debts £287,889 19 8
Less :
Remuneration to the local directors and salaries and allowances to
the colonial staff. £93,650 2 8
General expenses in' the colonies, including rent, taxes,
stationery, etc , 35,513 1 4
Remuneration to the Board of Directors and auditors, salaries of
London office staff, rent, taxes, stationery and general expenses 15,885 11 10
Income-tax 7 079 n 0
152,328 6 10
135,561 12 10
Deduct:
Appropriation to write down bank premises and property in the colonies.. £lO,OOO 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund 20 000 0 0
£173,005 16 7
30,000 0 0
Balance of undivided profits at this date
£143,005 16 7
Jjondon, 13th July, 1909.
ARTHUR FLOWER,
W. R. MEWBURN,
CHARLES PARBURY,
W. B. PERCEVAL,
Directors.
A. C. WILLIS, Manager.
C. M. 0. SHANNON, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act 1908, we report to the
shareholders as follows :
We have examined the above balance-sheet with the books at head office, and have had access to the branch
accounts transmitted to the head office from the colonies. We have verified the correctness of the cash, money at
call and short notice, investments, and the bills of exchange held in London, and having obtained all the information
and explanations we have required, we are of opinion that such balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a
true and correct view of the state of the company’s affairs according to the best of our information and the explana-
tions given to us, and as shown by the books of the company and the said branch accounts.
London, E. 0., 13th July, 1909.
WHINNEY, SMITH and WHINNEY, I
Chartered Accountants, \
Auditors.
Don’t Trust a Truss!
The experience of thousands of suffering men and women should
convince you that the truss is absolutely useless as a rupture-cure.
But that does not mean that you cannot be cured. There is a way
—the one way —by which you can be instantly relieved and permanently
cured of the most aggx-avated form of rupture.
The Sherman Method
Cures Rupture!
The Dr. J. A. Sherman treatment has lifted many from the depths
of despair and enabled them to face life cheerfully as only healthy men
and women can. Dc YOU feel despondent about your rupture—its
present inconvenience and pain and its ultimate effect ? Then call and
have a free consultation on your case. See the evidence of hundreds of
cures ; read the medical testimony to the efficacy of the Sherman treat-
ment, and you will at once desire to take the track that leads to health
and happiness.
If you cannot call, write for two free books describing rupture and
its cure.
HOURS Daily (Sunday excepted) 10 a.rn. to 12 noon; 2 p.tn. to 5 p.m.
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 12 noon. Extra hours : —Friday Evenings, 7to 9.
A. W. MARTIN,
Sole Controller of the Dr. J. A.
SHERMAN METHOD,
GIBBS’ CHAMBERS, 7 MOORE STREET, Near G.P.0., SYDNEY.
43
MOUSTACHE GROWING MADE EASY.
ANY man, however hard he has tried to grow
a moustache, will succeed with one jar of
CAPILLARINE, Price 10/6, Post Free.
For 25 years it lias never failed —
it won’t in YOUR case. TRY IT.
Craig; & Ait ken, 654 George St., SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
s
V
d


A wandering Cornstalk who is earning his
rouble in Eastern Siberia sends a letter with
two octagonal stamps on it, and the Russian
part of the address —the part which carried
it as far as the place where the Australian
language begins—looks like “ Tepeze Mockby,
Abcmpaillia ”:—
Re “Trotter’s” remarks on fast expresses in Bulletin
of 15th April (that’s a long time ago, but The Bulletin
has just come in, so it is not my fault). I’m writing this
with my legs stretched along latitude 58° N. and my back
against the post that holds up the line of longitudewhich
runs through Alban’- (W.A.). Except for a few fleecy
clouds in the blue >_.f the skies I might be in Western
(Queensland on a typical winter’s day, for Siberia, con-
trary to popular opinion, is not always under snow.’
It’s about “ Trotter ” and his inclusion of the Moscow-
vladivostok express amongst the fastest trains of the
world. That “ express” gets along at 20 miles an hour,
avenge speed throughout the journey; and that is the
Intei tational Wagon-Lit Co. of Europe’s express, too. It
couldn't go any faster on the present track, anyhow. As
to comfort, it is fairly good, having a library (carrying at
least a dozen ancient English novels), piano, corridor
cars, usual dining saloon, electric light and bathroom—
the charge for the last named is 3s. a dip. I know
that bathroom, for one day I emerged from it to find
myself shunted off to a side track in mid-Siberia for
repairs to the car.
The _ cars have double windows and double door-
ways in winter, as protection against the cold of the
bleak Siberian plains, which I remember at Omsk
station sent the thermometer down to 25 degrees below
zero 1 That was at 6 p.m. on a January day. Blit these
trains don’t have the boudoir car of the Adelaide-Mel-
bourne and (I believe you have them also since my last
trip that way) the Melbourne-Sydney expresses," and
altogether are not nearly so comfortable and steady as
your two boss trains. The Moscow-Vladivostok trip takes
12 days, with one change at Irkutsk, seven days out from
Moscow ; and the Australian language goes on the first
section, but not, as a rule, .951,. the last. On that first
section I once foymd a waiter who could wait in six
languages!
Then “ Trotter," there is no through Paris-Berlin-St.
Petersburg-Moscow train, for coming eastward through
Germany one must change first at Wirballen, on the fron-
tier, where the gauge changes, and where they turn travel-
lers out into a bleak waiting-hall at midnight’and overhaul
baggage and passports. Also at St. Petersburg and
Moscow you arrive at one side of the city and continue
from the other side, driven across in a drosky by a
bearded and yelling moujik who knows no rule of the
road : for, unlike Paris and Berlin, the Russian cities have
not even a; devious suburban line to bring one round to
the other side of the city when passing through. But
then no one should go through these cities without a
stay. St. Petersburg, with its fine, wide, straight streets
and splendid buildings, is verily the Queen City of the
Aorth. Moscow’s streets are twisty, like those of
London and Sydney; but its magnificent old churches
and palaces are fascinatingly attractive.
That’s about all I want to say to “Trotter,” who, I !
trust, has not died in the long interval. I get The j
Bulletin posted from your end each week, just to see \
how Wade, Deakin and Co. are getting on, and receive I
them nearly all, mostly in batches, any time from two to I
three months after posting. I nearly summoned upenough 1
energy some time ago to put a contributor of yours right
about the fees paid at Tomsk Universitv, but have for-
gotten now what it was he said.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New YVayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases qf Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11 /.
Thousands of Testimonials. ' '
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Messrs .Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared bv I. W.■ . NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist
25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Lire Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
_ , . . _ _ City or Suburban Properties, or on
of GovornttTi l nf n'«,i.» 0 !r bined . ) ’ Pastora ' a " d Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills O'f any of* the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IPif AT LOWEST CURRENT INTEREST
our Mort ? a ? e Oefec} contains a condition allowing Borrowers the brivileo-e of renarjn"
nn> „ -0 Per cent, of the loan durimr any year, without notice or payment of. any fine?
Shorf F«?n e * t * enator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman : Benjamin
Jas O ' ' ,ames Burns M.L.C. : , The H <>n. R- J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F. E'. Winchcombe. M.L.C. ;
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STRFFT WMFT Mana?er and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A.. F.F.A.. F.S.S.
iL.it, b/ PITT STREET, SYDNEI. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
LOOK FOR THE RED
<n
I TRADE MARK i
I REG. IN U.S. PAX OfnC£.|
When Buying Guns or Ammunition
This Winchester trade-mark is the hall-mark of guns andammu :
nition as perfect as brains and experience, coupled with a com-
plete plant, can make them. The red Wis to guns, cartridges
and shotgun shells what the word “Sterling” is to silverware.
For Your Protection “Look for the Red W”
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., - NEW HAVEN, CONN.
(When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for ,
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard i
against infectious diseases. 1
Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng. 1
DON’T LOOK OLD
DARKEN
TOUR
!•:!=*)
WITH
LOCKYER’S
HAIR RESTORER
MlrM
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREB.
Cl HEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
J Price 2/0. Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street,. Sydney.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant!
FULL PARTICULARS ON: APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
PROFIT to FLOCKMASTERS. NO TROUBLE to EXPERTS . EFFICIENCY and COMFORT for SHEARERS.
The FALKINER-BOLL PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING
MACHINES and GRINDERS are Unequalled.
Please write for Catalogues and full particulars to
YOUR PROFIT lies in utilising ELECTRICITY.
You need to realise the vital importance of
guarding against the loss of power in trans-
mission. Inefficient equipment means waste of
time and money.
THE FALKINER-BOLL PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINE CO., Head Office, Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 175 William Steeet, Melbourne.
Agent: A. EDWARD EVERSHED, 65 George Street, Launceston, Tasmania. Telegraphic Address: “ Falkiner-Boll,” Melbourne. Code Word : “ Triumphant.”
CURES
For eighty years POWELL’S
BALSAM has been the one
safe and reliable remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES.
Sold by all (2/jemists and Stores.
Sole wholesale agents for New South Wales and
Queensland —Elliott Bros., Sydney & Brisbane.
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
CURES
Read the following proof of its
efficacy.
Mr. Thos. Shelton, ifj,_6rowh Street, Oxford,
writes :—“ If the value of ' POWELL’S BALSAM
OF ANISEED ’was better known, many who suffer
with Coughs, Bronchitis, and other Lung Troubles,
would do as I have done for upwards of 50 years;
I take that when nothing else will give relief. One
or tyvo bottles invariably set' me up. It is invalu-
able. I have several times given a bot.tle.to suffer-
ing friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have
had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last,
and two or three bottles had the desired effect when
all else failed. You what use of this
you like.” —December nth, 1907.
COUGHS
COLDS
#
f
Food.
digestive principles
1 cuts' of food which
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natujg
are combined in proper proportion with tlfose efct
are necessary to restore health and to sustain assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
S7>e LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting' Goods
Fishing Tacßle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting; Goods selected
from.our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP ...
CANT
B
BEAT
OYEZ ARMS COY.’S 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced breech, top
lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left full, right
modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6f to 71b. .. S So
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare booii Dy De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datf. Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all.the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. MyNkigiibor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is posb free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomed’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for tiie
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is. 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
NOJVIE CYCLOPEPIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about .
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man Plis Own Builder, Is. Every
Man Plis Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer' Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers,: illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor, : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is; Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, ls,6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Cd each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more,
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. ‘N uw Thicks with Oa itiw,' Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Btisji Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted.. . Wonrerful Burget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’-s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing” Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
The Famous Remedy for
Coughs,. Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
(W* P o ™' Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it effects a ’ ex P enen ce delightful and rapid relief; and to those
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice and’it neithp- nil P^ te 1S most comforting in allaying Irritation,
tion to develop. Consumption i no? Wn whereCoughs' We * theV § fi T t0 K become nor Consump-’
*•—«•» asw sms
PATERNOSTER’S
pills H
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR
i Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five vea rs...
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING°AWAY
500 free machines.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of anv charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to, give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after vou receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee bv the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give awav. We invite all' who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
inay advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will’be awarded
111 order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., o PP . C.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Uhe
BULLETIN POST CAR DS
Vtts&srasmks&rTS&j+ . PACKET OF TWELVE Gd. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fi at, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of »
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTH MA CURE
GRIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difl&culty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs, \
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately*
relieved by GP.IMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAE-
ETTF«. 'P* d bn all Chrmu 4 *. '


Pimples Off in Two Days.
THE REMARKABLE EXPERIENCE OF
MISS SOPHY HENDERSON.
You don’t want to wait for ever and a day to get rid of your pimples or other skin
eruptions. You want to get rid of them right now. Next week you may want to go some-
where where you wouldn’t like to have to take the pimples along.
You can get rid of them just in time by taking Laxo-Tonic Pills.
These wonderful little workers have cured bad boils in three days, and some of the worst
cases of skin diseases in a week.
They contain as their main ingredient the most
thorough, quick, and effective blood cleanser and tonic
known.
Remember this, too, that most pimple treatments reelc
with poison, and they are miserably slow besides.
Laxo-Tonic Pills have not a particle of poison in them.
They are free from mercury, biting drugs, or venomous
opiates. This is absolutely guaranteed. They cannot do
any harm, they always do good—good that you can see in
the mirror before your own eyes a few days after.
Don’t be any longer humiliated by having a splotchy
face. Don’t have strangers stare at you, or allow your
friends to be ashamed of you because of your face.
Your blood makes you what you are. The men and
women who forge ahead are those with pure blood and
pure faces.
m
m
if I
■ •
Laxo-Tonic Pills will make you happy, because your
face will be a welcome sight, not only to yourself when you look in the glass, but to every-
body else who knows you and talks with you.
“ LAXO-TONIC PILLS removed an unsightly patch of pimples from my face,” writes
Miss Sophy Henderson, 12 Reiby Street, Enmore, N.S.W.,
“which, for two months, had resisted every possible
remedy. These- breakings-out were of a scabby nature,
and covere I a portion of my chin and cheek. They were
such a disfigurement that I didn’t care to go out of the
house in the daytime. One day a friend of mine gave me
a box of Laxo-Tonic Pills, and suggested that I should
give them a trial. ‘Very well,’ I said, 4 1 will; but I
don’t think they can possibly affect the pimples, which
seem to have settled down for good and all upon my face.’
I took the Pills according to directions. After twenty-four
hours the pimples began to dry up, and in forty-eight
hours they all came away when I was washing, leaving the
skin perfectly clear and clean, like the rest of my face.
For two months these pimples worried me. Two days of
Laxo-Tonic Pill treatment and they were clean gone.”
We want to prove to you that Laxo-Tonic Pills are
beyond doubt the best and quickest blood and skin purifier in the world—so we -will send you
a free sample as soon as we get your name and address. Send for it to-day, and when you
have tried the sample you will not rest contented until you have bought a or Is. 6d. box.
Send your name and address to-day, and we will at once send you by mail a sample
package free. Address, Laxo-Tonic Pill Company, 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
a
i'-'
! axO'fonic
lOird.
Is. 6d.
THE VERDICT of SCIENCE
Oil BUt BEAMS
PROVED SUPERIOR BY
ANALYSIS & TESTS
REPORT OF
A SCIENTIFIC JOURNAL
/
P 2
i
w
’E have satisfied ourselves that
Bile Beans are of purely vege-
table origin,” says that leading
London scientific journal, “ Science Sift-
ings.” “ Our laboratory experiments and
practical tests have disclosed to us a valu-
able preparation . . . excellent for Consti-
pation, . . . and as a regulator of the liver
and bile. Bile Beans increase secretion in
the whole of the digestive tract. When
employed to relieve Constipation they do
not—as is the case with so many purgatives
—cause «/<er-constipation. There is no
griping. They relieve flatulence, sick headache, and
biliousness. May always be relied upon to rectify
the overflow or insufficient flow of bile, and to lessen
congestion of the stomach and intestines. Bile Beans are an excellent family
medicine, and we award The Certificate of Merit to The Bile Bean Company
in respect of them.
Bile Beans have
proved unequalled
■for Biliousness,
Headache, Indiges-
tion, Constipation,
Piles, Bad Blood, Ful-
n css After Meals,
Nausea, Belching,
Dizziness, and all
Liver and Stomach
Ailments. Obtain-
able •from all Chem-
ists and Stores at
1/1 id. and 2/9 per
box (contains three
times the 1/I£d.).
The above supports absolutely the claim we have long
made for Bile Beans, and more convincing evidence of their
merit could not be possible. The verdict of Science Siftings
coincides with the verdict of the public. Twelve years ago
Bile Beans were practically unknown in Australasia. To-day
they have the largest sale throughout the world, and are the
standard family medicine. Bile Beans are a modern scientific
triumph ; are compounded from the finest medicinal roots and
herbs*; made in the best-equipped laboratories; are mild in
action, yet always effective ; are suitable for the most delicate
invalid ; are convenient to take ; are not too expensive foi the
working man and woman; in short, are the best family medicine.
Journey Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lund liner Commonwealth arrived at Durban and
reported having- seen no trace of the missing steamer
Waratah.— Cable.
HEAR the whispers of the Steam !
Hear thepent and toiling Power !
Where the furnace throws its gleam,
Hark ! the secrets of the Steam,
Whilst the watchful servants cower,
And the clanging notes of shovels on the hot and
throbbing floor
Seem to ring a knell of labor ’midst the engines’
endless roar.
Driving on—driving on
Where a thousand ships have gone.
Lo ! the hidden giant singing
To the harsh-toned shovels’ ringing
Broods the conquered.miles upon,
And the burthen of its song—
Of its rolling thunder-song—
It is this: “My puny masters, I will carry you
■ along
To your small and vain desires,
So you tend my altar fires
Till by the quay you face the waiting throng ;
But though vast my strength, the Sea
Hath the Will of God behind it, and beneath
Eternity ! ”
Toiling on—toiling fast
While the deep-sea peace doth last,
Asking never ease or leisure,
Beating out an ocean measure
With a rhythmic grace and vast;
Thus the snow-white spirit Steam
Drives its sleek and gleaming team
And it softly sighs and whispers, making up its
journey dream
As its good slaves to one end
All their strength and swiftness blend
Till from their hidden work their voices seem
To proclaim tumultuously,
“Time and Distance do we conquer, but we
conquer not the Sea ! ”
Toiling on—toiling far
’Neath the; haggard morning star
''All the pilgrim voices blending
lii a hymn of toil ascending
Chant with never jolt nor jar,
And the great shaft’s solemn note
From its cavern dim, remote,
'Mid the lighter, higher voices like a warning
seems to float;
“ Heavy—heavy is my tell 1
O, my masters, give me oil
That I may moisten well my parched throat!
And remember, all of ye,
That we journev on for ever at the mercy of the
Sea ! ”
Hear the whispers of the Steam !
Hear the pent and toiling Power !
Where the furnace throws its gleam,
Hark ! the secrets of the Steam !
How the watchful servants cower !
And the clanging notes of shovels on the hot and
throbbing floor
Seem to ring a knell of labor’midst the engines’
endless roar.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
Sam’s Seance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'* T" OOK ’ere, Jerry,” said Mr. Sharp,
I i “ the Dook —a fellar I met larst night—
is raisin’ Cain over losin’ an ole copper
ticker. Torks o’ goin’ to the p’leece about it—
fancy that! The ’Ops, matey ! When I arsted ’im
if ’e wasn’t quite positive ’e ’adn’t on’y lent it to
’is dear uncle, you’d ha’ thought I’d er pinched it
orf of ’ini by the ugly look ’e give me.”
“Well, an’so you did, I s’pose, Sam,” rejoined
the matter-of-fact Mr. Maunder.
“Them’s ’arsh words wot one day you’ll be
sorry fur utterin’ of, Jerry ; you’d give ole worlds
to recall ’em back agin arter you ain’t got me with
yer no longer,” prophesied the sentimental Mr.
Sharp. “ But wot I wanted to say wos this ’ere —
I’ve promised the Dook to find out fur ’im ’oo it
wos prigged that luverly watch an’ chain of ’is, an’
you’ve gotter ’elp me, mate. It’s necessary ter
divert suspicion. We don’t want no John ’Ops.”
Mr. Maunder shook his head decisively.
“Not me, Sam,” he said, with firmness. “ You
kin do yer own dirty work. I’ve yanked you
outer a ’ole afore this pretty frequent, an’ small
thanks you ever give me fur doin’ of it.”
“ You wouldn’t tork that way if you on’y noo
’ow it pained me to ’ear you, Jerry,” retorted the
grieved Mr. Sharp. “It ain’t much I’m arstin’ of
you. I sor in the noospaper orl about a bloke—l
furgit wot they called ’im—wot went into trances
an’ them things. Well, there’d bin a ’orrible
murder, an’ ’e says as ’ow ’e’d put ’isself inner
trance an’ find out that way ’oo it wos done it. I
don’t rightly remember if it come to anytbink, but
readin’ give me a idea, an’ I’ve told the Dook an’
’is cobbers if they chooses to drop inter my dig-
gins at the ’Orns to r night ’bout nine, my pal, the
eminent meejutn, Mr. Jerry Maunder, ’ll trace
the watch quicker ’n orl the John ’Ops in
Melbourne.”
Mr. Maunder, grinned reluctantly.
“ ’Ow you goin’ to work it, Sam?”
Mr. Sharp coughed portentously.
“You shall’ave a drink fur bein’a good boy,
Jerry,” he remarked, evasively. “Comeon acrost
to the ’Orns. I must make it orright with Ginger
Jones for me to borrer the loan o’ that excluded
room of ’is.”
* * * *
At nine o’clock that evening Messrs. Sharp and
Maunder received their visitors in the small back
chamber wherein Publican Jones and his associ-
ates devoted much of their spare time to two-up
and other games of chance.
Mr. William Smithers, familiarly known as
“ The Dook,’’was one of the earliest to present
himself, and from his lowering countenance his
companions took their ciie. Indeed it needed all
gain’s magnetism to even slightly thaw the thick
coating of ice which bound his auditory together
in chilly comradeship. He concluded his few
words of welcome with a fervid peroration calcu-
lated to disarm the most hostile of critics.
“I don’t arst none o’you to listen to me,” he
said, with great earnestness. “Watch my ’ands
—that’s orl you gotter do; an’ then when ole
Jerry ’ere opens ’is lips, ’ang onter ’is words an’
don’t lose one of ’em. ’E’s wot we ’oo ’ave the
gift o’ ’ippytism calls a meejum—the’ole sperrit
push toilers ’im about constant, same as little
Mary’s lamb. I on’y leads ’im on be questions,
an’ everythink ’e says is Gawspel troo. Now are
you orl ready ? ”
“Git on, Sam,” counselled Mr. Jones, from the
doorway. “ The’ole boilin’ o’ you’ll ’ave to be
out o’ this in ’arf a’ hour’s time, ’cos I’m expectin’
a few pals to drop in promiscuss-like fur a prayer-
meetin’.”
The suspicious Mr. Smithers sniffed noisily, and
honored Sam with a basilisk stare. Sam doffed
his coat, and advancing towards the chair in
which his venerable colleague was seated, executed
several passes of a rapid but complicated descrip-
tion under his very nose.
“Time!” bellowed the ribald Mr. Jones, and
somebody sniggered.
Mr. Smithers snorted. Sam smiled cheerfully
as he readjusted his shirt-sleeves. Mr. Maunder’s
eyelids drooped languidly and closed.
“’E’s unconscientious,” explained Mr. Sharp,
thoughtfully. “ Are you asleep, Jerry?”
“ Yes,” replied the unhappy medium, taken by
surprise.
“Meantersay no, not quite.” He opened one
inflamed eye.
“’Ushaby baby, ’e ’s teethin’—give ’im a drop
o’gin to soothe’im,” recommended the sceptical
Ginger Jones, playing shamelessly to the gallery.
Sam waved his hands persuasively, and the
theatrical Mr. Maunder snored.
“’E’s orf,” whispered Sam confidently. “Now
I’ll arst ’rn any questions you like, Bill.” He
turned to the baleful Mr. Smithers.
“Pinch ’im fust, to see if’e ain’t shammin’,” im-
plored the irrepressible Mr. Jones.
An expectant auditory requested the interrupter
to put his head in a bag without delay. The
Dook cursed at random.
“ Arst ’im furst ’oo sneaked my eighteen-carat
gold repeatin’ ticker, an’ wot ’e done with it ? ” he
demanded, hoarsely. Sam turned to the slum-
bering Jerry.
“There’s a gen’leman ’ere ’as lost ’is watch.
Kin you kindly tell if it were stole —if so, by ’oo ? ”
he inquired, with dramatic emphasis. No answer.
“’E’s far away in the sperrit world, surrounded
by all the asterisk influences,” explained the
psychical Mr. Sharp. “’E’s,in wot we call the
seventh 'Eaven ; I must summons ’im down to a
lower plane.” He gesticulated with abandon.
Mr. Maunder grunted. “ Are you there, Jerry ? ”
Sam’s tone was insinuating.
“No, ’e’s bushed—send a black tracker arter
’im,” suggested Ginger Jones.
“ Stow it! Go an’ boil yer fat ’ead ! ” besought
the general assembly with warmth.
“Yes, I’m ’ere, Samuel.” The voice of Mr.
Maunder sounded faint and far away.
Mr. Sharp repeated his query relating to the
Dook’s timepiece.
“I kin see a tall man with a ugly mug, a big
’ook nose, flap ears an’ a squint,” began the
sleeping medium.
Sam nodded triumphantly at the incensed Mr.
Smithers.
“Yes, that’s right enuff, Jerry. Well, wot
about ’im ?” he said.
“’E’s torkin’ to a female,” pursued Mr.
Maunder, dreamily.
“Is it ’is wife, Jerry?” asked Mr. Sharp,
acutely.
“ She’s gotter back tome,” continued the pains-
taking Mr. Maunder. “I carn’t see ’er face.
Now, she’s turnin’ round. No, it ain’t ’is missus—
wife, meantersay—but a fat, ’orrid-lookin’, red-
’aired, freckled gurl inner green plinth dress with
a yeller rose stuck inter it.”
“’Oo is it, Jerry?” inquired Mr. Sharp.
Eor a moment there was a dead silence, broken
only by the troubled respiration of the unfaithful
Mr. Smithers. Then Mr. Maunder resumed —
“ It’s the noo barmaid at the ‘ Hanker in ’Ope.’
’E’s arstin’ ’er if she loves ’im ” (the Dook started
violently), “an’ she says she kep’ a pet monkey
once, on’y the pore thin’ took to consumption an’
died. ’E puts ’is ’and inter ’is pocket an’ pulls
out ’is watch an’ chain. ’E shows ’er the works —
jew’ls in four ’oles an’ all marked 18-claret. She
shakes’er’ead. ’E takes’er’and. She smiles up
at ’im. ’E give ’er the watch an’ chain. She
give ’im the rose out of ’er bosom. Now their lips
meet —ah ! I kin see no more. Wait—yes—wdt’s
this ’ere? A small little woman with false teeth
wot ain’t bin paid fur—it’s ’is wife. She arsts
’im the time o’ day. ’E says ’is watch ’as bin
stole from’im in Collins-street; she fetches ’im a
clip acrost the ear-’ole”
“It’s a lie! It’s a damned lie!” roared the
exasperated Mr. Smithers, trying to assert him-
self above a storm of laughter.
“That’ll do, Jerry. You kin wake up now,”
said Mr. Sharp, shaking his aged comrade by the
shoulder.
At that moment the door was flung violently
back, and a stout, breathless gentleman with pro-
nounced Semitic features darted into the room.
“ Anyone see’d Sam Sharp?” he demanded, in
a voice husky with emotion.
“’Ere I am. Wot is it, Ikey?” inquired that
individual, blandly. “Carn’t you see me an’orl
these good peoples is ’oldin’ a little scientifical
meetin’ ? An’ yet you come bouncin’ inter the
room bellerin’ like a bull in a Chinaman’s shop.”
The infuriated Mr. Cohen opened his mouth,
gasped, sought words and found them not. Then
he thrust his hand into his capacious pocket and
produced an obsolete timepiece, bearing all the
evidences of extreme eld.
“Wodger mean by bringin’a thing like this
’ere round to my place? Wot you know I
wouldn’t give as much as a ’arf a crown fur not if
you wos starvin’ on yer bended knees, and Solly
so shikkered he couldn’t tell a ticker from a fry-
pan ? You didn’t know I wos out —git away with
you ! You watched me go, and that flat-footed
son of a dingo give you a suvrindown on the nail.
’Oly Moses ! I’ll ’ave it in fur you over this, Sam
Sharp, you see ! ”
Mr. Sharp shook his head reproachfully.
“Ho, ’ow kin you say sech’ard thin’s, Ikey?”
he asked, more in sorrow than in anger. “ Wosn’t
that ’ere watch a presentiment one give me fur
savin’ the life of a pore ole man wot fell inter the
’Arbor at Perth, over in the West, an’ lost’s right
leg as fur as the knee tea shark? Would I’ave
sold it to you fur a ’undred thousan’ pound if it
’adn’t a bin that the dear mother of me oldest pal,
wot’s dead an’ gorn. wanted the price of a pint —
meal, meant’say. Well, I know it ain’t gold—
more shame to them as give it me unner false
pretences. Didn’t I tell young Solly, with
the tears rainin’ down me eyes, that it weren’t
worth above three bob at the very outside ? Begged
an’ prayed of ’im, I did, not to tempt me be
offerin’ a a’penny more ’n two an’ eleven. An’
wot did e’ say? ‘You’ve a noble ’eart, Sam,’
says ’e; ‘ you risked yer unval’able life savin’ a


CO
m
m
m
Though- no two persons alike are
affected in precisely the same way by
kidney disorder, the danger is always
equally great. One man may suffer
from pains in the back and loins, or
from rheumatism—another may have
urinary troubles, and his eyes may be
puffy and swollen; one woman may
notice heart irregularity, she may be
sleepless, nervous and despondent—
her neighbor may have all the
symptoms of dropsy or Bright’s disease.
It depends on the sufferer’s constitution
and the nature of the impurities kept
back in the body by the blood filters—
the kidneys.
Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills
should be taken at the FIRST
sign of anything wrong.
They are the reliable medicine for
every disorder caused directly or in-
directly through kidney weakness or
inflammation ; they drive out the uric
acid that irritates the kidney mem-
branes and clogs the passages. Doan’s
Pills help the kidneys in* their great
blood-filtering work, and give tone to
the whole kidney organism.
3
3
till I Ilf fill UilllMlIllU&t
3
(T '
(S)
r
ca) ■
I®.
imiflfim«iimnm«m)
WW
“Every picture tells a, story
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per
box, or posted free by Foster=McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, N.S.W.
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. S. O’Rourke, 39 Griffin Lane, Surry Hills, Sydney,
says:—“For nine years I’ve been troubled with the
kidneys. In that time I used all sorts of remedies, but
the first to do me good was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills ; these were Al. I used to get pains in the back
and across the shoulders, hot flushes of blood to my head,
burning pain under the eyes ; I was frightfully nervous,
and had palpitation of the heart. Regarding the pain in
ray back, after stooping I would have to ease myself up.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills started to relieve me when
I had taken a few doses. After I had taken them for a
week I felt so well that I forgot to take them. Anybody
who needs a kidney medicine should get Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills.”
Mrs. O’Rourke confirms the above seven years later :
“ I am still free of every distressing symptom mentioned
above, and have been ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured me, seven years ago. This remedy is
unrivalled for the cure of kidney ailments.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., 749 Harris Street, Ultimo,
says : —“Some time ago I strained myself pushing some
heavy trucks, and soon noticed the effect in the small of
my back. For three solid months I was unable to work,
I had a very lame back, and a dull pain through the loins
and the kidneys, and my secretions became unnatural and
irregular. I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
obtained wonderful relief. I am so much better, lean
now do heavy work. lam firmly convinced that Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy, and I
never fail to recommend them among my friends.”
Mr. Carroll makes a second statement I am still
well, and have never suffered with my kidneys fsince
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me eight years ago.’,
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
pore droundead man, an’ golden deeds deserves
golden rewards,’ ’e says. ‘By my Father
Abrahams, I’d sooner die an’ go down to
Gohanna than offer you a farthin’" less than a
suvrin!’ An’with that, seein’as you’d locked
up tho cash, he borrers a thick-un at the pub next
door, an’ slaps it on the counter in front o’ me
an’ busts out sobbin’.”
Mr. Cohen laughed bitterly.
“My oath! You and yer noble ’cart!” lie
scoffed. “Why, you ain’t got the ’eart of a.
mil ngy oyster. Never mind, I’ll be even with you
yet—jest wait till nex’ time, that’s orl. Be rights
I orter put the traps on yer.”
“No,, no. Ikey,” said Mr; Sharp, gently ; “ you
wouldn’t do that —not fur yer own sake, you
know. Cheer up, matey, take ’eart; think of orl
them pore fatherless widders an’orphans you’ve
robbed, an’ all the gold you’ve bought without a
license.”
The veins stood out darkly on Mr. Cohen’s
massive brow. He flung the object of contention
on the table with an original objurgation.
“Take it !” he stuttered, “Keep it! Much good
may it do yer. I won’t ’ave nothink to say to it
it ud disgrace a Dago. Oh, my Gawd ! On’y
wait till nex’ time !■”
He shook. a pudgy fist fiercely a bare inch from
Mr. Sharp’s flushed nose, and then, fearful of
trusting himself further, turned on his heel and
strode out of the room, calling loudly on Moses
and all the prophets as he stumbled heavily down-
stairs. Sam beamed benevolently on the diverted
assembly.
~ Fore old man,” he remarked, kindly; “ ’ard
’it, ain’t ’of I wouldn’t be in Solly’s shoes fur
somethink—his son Solly what’s took ter drink.”
His hand closed on the rejected watch just as Mr.
Smithers started forward, purple in the face with
wrath and amazement.
“Why, damme! it’s my”- He broke off
short, and eyed the smiling Sam askance.
“ I know wot wos on the tip o’ yer tongue, Bill,”
said Mr. Sharp, with conviction. “No, it ain’t
yours, though not unlike be apparents. You
wouldn’t never-demean yerself to own.a copper
ticker wot on’y cost about five bob when bran’
noo—you 'oo will ’ave everythink so ’andsome.
Yours, the one you. give the barmaid—lost, I
meantersay—,\yos real gold, eighty carrots, jew’lled
in I dunno ’oyv many ’oles. ’Ere, ’ave a look at it
if you like —you kin see with ’arf a eye it ain’t
your’n, carn’t yer?”
Hto held out the watch for inspection. The
Dook thrust his hands into his pockets, and glared
apoplectically.
“Is it yers, or is it not? Give a answer, I
beg.”, persisted, the tenacious Mr. Sharp.
Mr, Smithers choked.
“No, damn you, it ain’t! Will that satisfy
you ? ” he ejaculated in strangled tones.
“ Yes, kindly thankin’of you ; that’s all I re-
quire, William,” said Mr. Sharp, with dignity.
“ I’ve ’ad this ’ere ticker fur years an’ years, ain’t
I, Jerry?”
u Fur years an’years,” eohoed the faithful Mr.
Maunder.
Sam’s face suddenly shone with loving kindness,
pure and undiluted.
“’Ere, take it, William,” he requested, liter-
filly forcing the watch on the embarrassed Mr.
Smithers. “I give it to you, free, gracious, an’
fur nothink. I've ’ad a suv’rin fur it—more’n it’s
worth be a very long chalk—an’ dear ole Jack
Tuff’s mother’s bin able to pay ’er ’ard-’earted
landlord ’is long-owed rent outer it. Take it,
matey ; a pore man like me don’t want no watch.
Like as not I s d'lose it or else give it away to some
low, graspin’ female. ’Ump it ’ome to the missus,
William, an’ arst ’er to keep it locked up safe fur
yer. Gawd bless yer, mate.”
Mr. Smithers pocketed the timepiece without a
word ; then, giving vent to a peculiar guttural
noise in his throat, he favored Mr. Sharp with a
ferocious stare. Still staring, he backed slowly
from the room. Sam regarded his risible audi-
ence sadly.
“ That’s orl one gits fur doin’ a kindness in this
world—not even a thank you,” he declared,
brokenly.
‘‘P’raps ’is feelin’s overtook ’im,” suggested
Ginger Jones. “Never mind, Sam ! Remember
wot the pote bloke said’bout “kind ’earts is more’n
cornets.’ ”
“‘Come on, Jerry,” said the disillusioned Mr.
Sharp, ignoring Mr. .Tones’ well-meant attempt at
consolation. “Nobody don’t want us’ere. We’ve
done oil the good we kin, an’on’y got trompled
on fur our pains. Come on, mate, an’ if nobody
else won’t shout, well, I’ll do it meself fur the ’ole
mean-sperrited crowd.”
He took the unresisting Mr. Maunder by the
arm and descended to the bar, closely attended
by a thirsty retinue.
Lawrence
B. JUPP.
Scobie’s Tenner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rPHE .trooper climbed lazily from the
I saddle and, dropping the reins over a
fence post, strolled over to the hut.
Seobie, with his pipe jutting out at a sharp
angle from his mouth, stood leaning against the
door post awaiting his visitor.
“G’morniu’, Seobie.”
“Mornin’,” replied that gentleman, laconically.
“Findin’ things a bit slow,” asked the trap.
“Oh, they’re not too bad. What’s the
matter'?”
“ Nothing much. I happened to dream that ye
had a bit of a look-in in the trouble on the road,
the other night, and as that tenner’s not turned
up yet I’ve come over to see if it happened to fall
into the turn-up o’ your pants. I’d advise ye
now as Seobie pulled his pipe out of his gash
of a mouth indignantly—“ not t’ bother me, or
I’ll be takin’ t’ you, me lad. Come in and take
things easy while I have a look around.” So say-
ing, the trooper pushed Seobie gently inside the
hut and closed the door.
“Might’s well save yerself the trouble,” said
the suspect, peering at the policeman from under
his hairy brows. “Ye’ll find nothin’, and I.d
like t know what liar put yer on ter me.”
“No one, me dear. If I didn’t know ye so well
I wouldn’t ’a’ bothered ye, but—well, we’ve done
business together before, ain’t we, Seobie ? ”
Seobie smiled., “ Yer puts it delicate,” he said.
The trooper was in a happy mood. “ Well,” he
said, “ there’s no need f’ me t’ be rude about it.
I mark ye understand me, anyhow. Ye’re an in-
telligent man gone wrong, Seobie. Now,'if ye’d
only been caught young— h—ll.’’
In pushing his hand beneath the mattress,
Elliot had scraped it on a nail that stuck through
the floor of the bunk, and the red track showed
deep along the palm.
Scobie was all solicitude.
“ Be th’ livin’ Peter, it’s a snorter of a scratch,
ain’t it ?” he murmured feelingly. “Here. Dip
yer flipper in this, while I fish up a bandage for
yer. Ye’re a careless man, Elliot. Now, if ye’d
only been caught young ”
“Shut up, y’ fool,” barked the injured one.
“ Are ye going to be all day with that bandage ?”
Scobie smiled very sweetly. He seemed pleased
over something, did Scobie, and as he tied up the
wound his face glowed with the light of an arc
lamp.
What’re ye grinnin’ at, ye goat ?” demanded
the exasperated trooper, “I notice that a fellow
can never hurt himself without amusin’ the idiot
population.”
“ Ah, take it easy now, Elliot. I was only
smilin’ because of the sweet relief I was dolin’ out
to ”
“Sweet rats!” And the trooper, all his good
nature gone, re-commenced his search, while
Scobie sat on the edge of the table and watched
him. He made his temper worse by offering to
assist in moving the “furniture,” etc., or by
sarcastically suggesting a few places that hadn’t
been searched. For a good hour the officer pried
and hunted, till not an inch of the place was left
unnoticed. Then, after an unsuccessful search of
the genial Scobie, the trooper reluctantly gave up
the quest, and prepared to take his departure.
“Hold on, Ellior,” said the suspect, “have a
bite and a taste of something before ye leave
us. ”
“Oh, be hanged t’ ye,” responded the officer.
“ Don’t want anything. And mark me, me man,”
he continued truculently, “ye’ve got a plant
somewhere, and this time ye might’ve beaten me.
But never again, me lad—never again.”
• -Scobie looked hurt.
“Surely -ye don’t suspect me after all yer
searchin’, Elliot,” he complained. “Be just,
man.”
“ Oh, be damned.” The trooper turned to
leave.
“ Well, let’s put on a clean bandage before ye
go, Elliot. Ye’ve got that one all dirty, and its
worth while lookin’ out for blood-poisonin’, ye
know. We can’t afford to lose any of the few real
energetic officers we’ve got.”
Elliot was inclined to refuse the proffered kind-
ness, till he remembered that he intended to call
in at Harry MeGlade’s on his way back to the
township, and, of course, Harry’s pretty sister
would in all probability be about, and the bandage
was certainly dirty— too dirty for the spick-
and-span Trooper Elliot. So he reluctantly held
out his hand to the sycophant for treatment.
Scobie skilfully rebandaged the damaged mem-
ber, and flinging the dirty linen into the empty
fireplace, he accompanied his visitor out. to his
horse.
The trooper had thawed visibly under Scobie’s
kind treatment, and his good temper was return-
ing. Looking down at the man, he spoke with a
kindly twinkle in his blue eyes. “Why don’t ye
go a bit straighter, me boy?” be asked. “It’s
always the prad that pulls straight and steady
gets the least whip. Think it over, lad.”
Scobie smiled—an impish, good-natured sort of
grin it was.
“That’s good enough advice f’ a colt, Elliot;
but I’m no colt now, and I was badly broke in, I
was. So long.”
Then Scobie walked back to the hut, and going
to the fireplace, took up the cast-off bandage and
rescued out of it the missing note.
“That was a streak of luck,” he remarked to
himself.
POLSTAN.
The Milestones.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T HE splendid sun of noonday
Is sloping to the west
As I lay down my burden
A little while and rest.
The road that I have travelled
I view with yearnings vain.
Would God that I could travel
That long, long road again.
It ran ’midst shining meadows,
By ever-singing streams,
And through the Wood Enchanted,
And through the Land of Dreams.
And up the hill rejoicing
It ran, and reached the crest
That overlooks the plain lands
And valleys of the West.
Once I stood bravely singing
Upon that green hill’s brow—
The bird within my bosom
Sings not.so bravely now.
Beside that road a milestone
Shines, far off, in the sun;
’Tis wreathed with faded garlands
And numbered—Twenty-one.
The road that I have travelled
I view with yearnings vain.
Would God that I could travel
That long, long road again.
Alas, this fond repining
Is like, for all it yields,
The wind that chases shadows
Across forsaken fields.
The road that lies before me
Is dimmer than a dream,
And deeper grow the shadows,
The milestones closer seem.
And, in the dust-veiled distance,
There glimmers, ghostly white,
The last of all the milestones,
Upon the verge of Night.
A name thereon is graven,
A number too is there ;
Ah me ! That stone so mournful,
What number does it bear ?
VIOTOR J. DALEY.


“Having held a position as Held umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A. ”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Ayer's Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
Bird’s
Cts!atd with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SMGLETOrs EYE Oi«TME»T.
In use since 1686.
, CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, £lO, Lambeth Road- London, Eng.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Senes. IV, V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
■an-? auisu sqi sjsaq ajnsdea qaeg
•sjnoq 8-j^
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, (>d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original ancl Only Genuine
ssasf
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England-
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS
. ■
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA , and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
The“ABBOTT”
Australian Filter.
APPROVED BY THE BOARDS OF HEALTH.
The leading Filter in Australasia, and installed
by the leading Butter and Aerated Water Factories.
IM. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
263 George Street, Sydney ; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only on really insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters as must be decided by the test of expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECHAM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BBBCHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price I\l\ {56 pills) & 2/9 {l6B pills).
THERE IS HO TIME
LIKE THE PRESEHT
for installing- a windmill, for though there is
plenty of water about now, the summer will
soon be here, and without water conservation
the same old necessity will arise.
If you want large quantities pumped, get a
“STEEL WINGS,”
which has a bearing on each side of the wind-
wheel ; or small quantities—then have a
“ LITTLE TROJAH,” a willing worker at
a low prior.
Both are fitted with roller bearings, and are
superior to all other makes.
Send in particulars of your requirements and
we will send you estimates free.
Dept. C post Catalogues.
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
c
ritchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal oiNfavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibajilt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
== Brifisl)‘.fliistralasiait
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
iu advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
forination on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
IMO fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
Compulsory Winding-up of the insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street} Melbourne*
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring- this business
to a close, they have decided upon the computsorv
wi riding up of same, and beg- to submit the followin'--
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified', re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price £3 17 6
S Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .£2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts. Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
THE
WORLD’S CORE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Gough, Hoarseness, &c.
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
Bung Tonic could not have been won,,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in*
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
{ remedy ever known. Beware of Sub-
stitutes; ask for “ OWBRIDGE
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
! Sold everywhere
in bottles at Is. lid.,
2s !W.,45. 6d.,&115.
COPYRIGHT.


Re-building Sale at Perdriau’s
During- our re-building sale yOu’ll have a rare
chance to snap up some splendid goods at prices
that are very, very low —far below the actual value.
Profits have been sacrificed to clear the
stocks quickly.
Waterproof Driving: Rug's, usually 12/6,
now 9/-
Waterproof Driving Rugs, usually S/6,
now 6/6.
Men’s Macintoshes, usually 42/., now
25/-
Wemen’s Macintoshes, usually 25/-,
now 12/6.
Motor Coats, usually 42/-, now 23/-
Caloshes for Men, usually 4/3, now 3/6.
Goloshes for Women, usually 3/3,
now 2/8.
Tweed Legrsinars, usually 4/6, now 3/3,
These are but some of the offers. We’ll be
•g;lad to show you all, or to send details of any
line in which you are interested. Call or write.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Stroet, Sydney,
PETROL ELECTRIC LIGHTING SET
FOR
2®
$
mssm
J
&
a?
*
V
SOLE
T. K. STEANES,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
TRADb.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a fruard against, inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
James Hardie & Co.,
Sole
Importers: „
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
m
SCHNAPPS
The beverag'e
that benefits.
At all times
ask for and obtain only
MciNNES DOBBIE INDICATOR
99
FOR STEAM, GAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted toy British Admiralty, and used by the
Largest Power Users of the World.
919
STEAM, BELT OR ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
Simple, Double or Triple Act-
ing, with Forced Lubrication.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COMPLETE
MINING
EQUIPMENTS.
DICK KERR 8 CO. LTD.,
Head Australian Office : E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
Engineers, Contractors, George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR
INQUIRIES
SOLICITED.
GENERATORS
TEL.
(3236
\5221
ELECTRICAL
§
WARBURTON,
ON
162 Clarence S
SYDNEY
Postal Address :
G.P.O. BOX 1629,
SYDNEY,
. . '’■- '• , (■. , • , , .. .
’Phone 1390.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Office: Mutual Life Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“MINE SMELTER,”
SYDNEY.
We Manufacture
in Sydney
PERCUSSIVE ROCK DRILLS
AIR (HAND) HAMMER DRILLS
and for Pric<
ve your inquiries.
BOILERS
Horizontal, Self-Contained,
Return Tubular Portable -
Water Front, Open Bottom,
Locomotive Portable*
Horizontal Tubular Stationary.
Submerged Tube Vertical .
ENGINES
of various types and newest
design in all sizes -
HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL
COMBINED ENGINES
and BOILERS .
BLOWERS
ROOTS Single Geared Foundry *
Smelting, Single or Double
Geared, with or without Engine „
KEYSTONE, STEAM DRIVEN .
RUGGLES’ PERFECTION FLUE CLEANER, Positively Self-Adjusting,
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George St., Sydney; 486 Collins St, Melbourne
*
