

H lb? WAK Bi~AII that a perfect Whisky should be.
R. Gr. WATXUZVS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining 1 and Contractors 7 Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
m
Power without Coal.
Suction Gas Plants
in Stock.
7 Bent
AINU
128 William Street, Melbourne.
EEQBART.
Ijadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEEH
LEATHER BELTING
GUAK.ANTBBD.
«/» C Ludowioi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
V
" Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTj
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
'
FIT PERFECTLY.
[“cssm.
Junket
J
J
HANSENS
k
unketg
TABLETS
J!
GQSpB&k.
uime
J
CnipEßk
Ci// , faJ\ca
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
*
s
*. --.oN V VA- ~<*V #■
I^J>\.
V
.<f *>
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
I
IYAL
ITCH
mm
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOI^
. ArofflJk.Strei^tKi'Purifjc
MALTHOID MINERAL UfING comes as a boon to all those who
desire a perfect house cover.. i.;. It withstands heat and cold alike ; is
without the faults of tiles, slates or shingles ; is easy to lay and economical
in cost. MALTHOID ROOFING is practically everlasting in wear.
ķ
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN,
GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER) 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ECONOMY
4
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
a?
Wsß>-
:V - v -
WORTHINGTON
PUMPS
FOR . ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence
THORNE’S
The “DOYEN” of WHISKIES
9
s
The CREMF.-DE-LA-CREME of BRANDIES
HELIDON SPA
44 It is a dream of the Physician realised,” so says a medical man
of Helidon Spa* HELIDON SPA is Nature's Eliminant*
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.30.—J0. 1557.]
[Thursday, December 16, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


For the Christmas Season.
ART CALENDARS AND CHRISTMAS GREETINGS.
DAINTY BOOKS IN CLOTH AND LEATHER BINDINGS.
POCKET EDITIONS OF FAMOUS AUTHORS.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKS IN COLOR AND BLACK AND WHITE.
BOOKS FOR PRESENTATION.
Write for Our List Containing all Particulars and Prices.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Traehea or
Windpipe.
d e
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemi9t9, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., I 9 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
The Noble Six Hundred
The Countess of Cardigan ia one of the
very Nicest People—“My father was
Spencer Horsey de Horsey, of the ancient
family of de Horsey, who married Lady
Louisa Maria Judith, youngest daughter of
the Earl of Stradbroke.” Being 85 and
childless, she doesn’t care a cuss for any-
body, so she makes up a neat little surprise
packet of scandalous stories about her old
pals, labels it My Recollections, and sends it
to a public greedy for such gossip. It comes
to us per Dymock’s Book Arcade.
The book is undoubtedly an interesting
one, for the old lady, in her naive way,
presents some specimens of that strange
survival from barbarism, the British
aristocracy, in all their glory. One of
her earliest memories is of speaking
with the Marquis of Hertford, the orig-
inal of Thackeray’s Lord Steyne. She
thinks that Thackeray did a great deal to
malign Hertford, and he did not quite
deserve it. It is true that he was a roue.
Scandal says that the prettiest members of
the corps de bcdlet drove to his house after
the opera and waited on Lord Hertford and
his friends at supper, “wearing less than
what is now considered good form to appear
in as Salome.” “But after all,” says the
countess, “ he always looked a great noble-
man, never forgetting his manners, however
much he neglected his morals—a refreshing
contrast to the fast young man of to-day,”
who lets both slide.
England is degenerating badly, according
to Lady Cardigan. They did everything
much better when she was young. The
children were sweeter and more natural.
‘ ‘ The horrible modern child, with blase
ideas and cynical self-conceit, did not exist
years ago.” (How true this is !) Society
was much simpler, finer and gayer before
the invasion of the American millionaire and
knighted plutocrat. Yet in some respects
the change has apparently not been very
great. Once, when the countess was a girl,
she wanted to see a rather risque piay, and
asked her father to take her.
“ Quite impossible,” answered papa, with great
decision. “ i am dining to-night with General
Cavendish at the club, a long-standing engage-
ment, and, ” he continued in a tone of conscious
virtue, “even if I were disengaged, I should not
think of taking my daughter to see such a play ;
nothing, my dear, is so degrading as a public dis-
play of lax morals, and it is the duty of every self-
respeoting person to discountenance such a per-
formance. Let me hear no more about it.” And
he opened the Times with an air of finality.
The lady was young enough to believe the
club storjr, but decided to go in spite of her
father. She secured a box, took her maid*
and asked Cardigan, a friend of her father’s,
to come too. Cardigan arrived after the
overture, rather agitated.
“Miss de Horsey.” he said, “you must leave
the theatre at once.”
“I will do no such thing,” I cried, angrily.
“ What on earth is the matter ? ”
“Well,” reluctantly answered Cardigan—“well,
Miss de Horsey, your father and General Caven-
dish are in the box opposite—with ” (he looked at
me apologetically)—“ with their mistresses !”
That sort of thing is all right if you are a de
Horsey. Bub the doings of the modern
jumped-up rich people make the countess
snort. An episode which stamps the caste
of Horsey de Horsey took place in the gallery
of the House of Lords. The Countess saw
the Marchioness of Ailesbury come in, and,
anticipating a cut, said loudly :
Oh,, Lady Ailesbury, you may like to know that
before Lady Cardigan died she told my lord all
about you and your illegitimate children.
It is a good thing to get your blow in first,
and after that knock-out the Ailesbury person
was quite tame and fed out of the hand. The
Lady C. who died was the first wife of
“Cardigan the dauntless,” who led the
charge of the Light Brigade. They sepa-
rated in 1846, and “for 12 years Cardigan
remained a grass-widower, consoled by many
fair friends; and bills being as numerous then
as they are now, certain ladies were always
ready to stop at Deene (Cardigan’s house)
without their husbands.” The virtuous de
Horsey practically turned his daughter out
of the house because she persisted in meet-
ing the grass-widower, and friends like
Lady Ailesbury dropped her, but when she
became Lady Cardigan all was forgiven.
Before her marriage she had received pro-
posals from a number of dukes and other
blokes, including Disraeli and one of the
Bourbons. The list is printed with evident
pride ; also the letters of Don Carlos Bour-
bon to whom she was engaged. She has en-
joyed life, and she still enjoys her dinner
“heedless of any new fashioned fads about
food. I sleep as peacefully as a child, and
Dr. Pink says I shall live to be a hundred.”
If so, she may drag her memory for some
more anecdotes of the noble set to which
she belongs.
Spooks and Other Things
Whether W. T. Stead is having his leg
pulled or is trying to pull the leg of the
public, there is no doubt that he is making
good “copy” out of Julia. No other jour-
nalist would have thought of such a scoop
as “ When the Door Opened ” in the Novem-
ber Fortnightly —or, it may be more correct
to say, no other journalist would have had
the face to print interviews with the shades
of Disraeli, Cobden, Bradlaugh, etc., even
though, as it happened, they were all in
agreement with the interviewer on current
questions. A large section of the British
public will be impressed, especially as the
meetings at the Spook Bureau were opened
with prayer and closed with the doxology.
Gladstone and Bright just called and wrote
their names in the visitors’ book. So far
Edmund Burke and Oliver Cromwell have
not dropped in, but no doubt most of the
crowd back to Pericles will in time rise to
make a few remarks in support of Stead’s
views.
There are immense possibilities in Julia’s
Bureau in the way of verifying history. It
is not certain that all the far-off spooks can
be got at; but when the long-distance tele-
phone is established, no doubt many compli-
cated historical knots will be unravelled.
About recent events it is quite effective. For
instance, Stead was wondering whether there
was any truth in Lady Cardigan’s statement
that Disraeli had proposed to her. Dizzy
happened to be on tap at that moment and
replied: “It is quite true. I had my
moments of foolishness, like other men, and
tins was one of them.”
v!>
The cable says that the Circulating
Libraries Association has determined not to'
circulate “ scandalous, libellous or immoral
books, or those likely to prove offensive to
any considerable section of subscribers.”
Cool cheek on the part of the Circulat-
ing Ass. It would, however, be entitled to
distinguish by some outward mark the books
it considered harmful to the innocent. This
plan would be a boon to all if a committee of
Judkinses did the branding. Ordinary
naughty books could be put in blue covers ;
perfectly pure books, such as E. P. Poe’s
novels, in white ; and the degrees between
represented by other colors. Green would
be reserved for the decadents ; and yellow,
the quarantine color, would serve for danger-
ous books of the same class as the Old Testa-
ment, Shakspeare, Sterne, Rabelais, Boc-
caccio, etc.: —which, of course, never appear
on the chaste shelves of a circulating library.
When Vizetelly was prosecuted for publish-
ing Zola in England he printed and put in
evidence a collection of “scandalous and
immoral ” passages from English classics in
general circulation to which no objection had
ever been made.
W
The rejection of the British Budget by the
hereditary Muckainucks recalls Greatauk in
Anatole France’s Penguin Island. Greatauk
had smashed a few weaker penguins, and
thereupon became a noble. When the elders
met for the first time and discussed the
question of taxation, he made this brief
declaration :
“Being noble, I shall not contribute ; for
to contribute is ignoble. It is for the rabble
to pay.”
Stephen Gwynn’s Robert Emmet (Mac-
millan) is more of a history than a novel.
“Not merely in the broad outline,” says the
preface, “ but in every detail of the narra-
tive (with a single exception of no great
historic importance) this is a faithful recital
of things which happened in the year 1803.”
Gwynn has had access to State papers and
memoirs previously unknown or ignored by
the historians, and one of the new documents
relates to the love of Emmet and the
daughter of Philpot Curran. The ordinary
romancer would probably have made more of
Leonard McNally, the informer, who was
used by Gwynn for the episode which is the
single exception in the shape of invention.
While sticking closely to the facts, he has
constructed an interesting story of the
abortive rising, and has brought out in fine
relief the heroic spirit of Robert Emmet.
When you find on the first page that She
said “ damn ” deliciously you know that the
story is right up to date, and you sit back
prepared for the worst. Laurence North’s
Syrinx (Sydney Book Club) makes the pace
hot from the start. The lady was not de-
pendent upon a plebeian English expletive ;
she could swear in several languages.
Her knowledge was as surprising as it was
shameless; from the Symposium of Plato, which
was one,of the few books she misunderstood, to
the ghastly scalpel work of Weininger, which she
understood too well, she ranged over the whole
field. When she quoted Burton of the Anatomy
one would have thought her a philosopher. It
was hard not to believe her wanton when
she fenced lightly with Procopius, Apuleius,
Philostratus, de Brantome, Casanova, certain
works of Mend&s, Mirbeau, Pierre Louys, apd
even the mysterious volume of the Arab Sheikh
Mefazoui.
In addition to her accomplishments she had
youth and beauty, and in the fastest and
most exclusive club in London, “ The Polite
Outcasts,” they called her Aspasia. Withal
she was a perfect lady—“ Before her ter-
rible purity of thought and act he felt him-
self to be a moral leper.” “He ” was a
harmless Oxford don who made the mistake
of regarding her as human.
Alfred P. Schultz’s Race or Mongrel (Page
and Co., Boston) may be explained by its sub-
title : ‘ ’A brief history of the rise and fall of
the ancient races of the earth : a theory that
the fall of nations is due to intermarriage
with alien stocks ; a demoiistration that a
nation’s strength is due to racial purity ; a
prophecy that America will sink to early
decay unless immigration is rigorously re-
stricted.”
Schultz holds a brief for the Teuton. The
Saxon and Norman were of the same root
stock, and from about the time of John they
merged. He says, “ it is true the Saxons
spared some (Celtic) women,” but their
racial influence was insignificant, and what
influence there was became absorbed into the
Saxon blood. In this way we, the Anglo-
Saxons, are, as pure in blood to-day as ever
we were (if ever we were). He is out to
prove that when nations were pure-blooded
they rose, and when impure they fell, and
he will prove it or die. Of the Cubans he
gently remarks :
The English language has not adjectives suffici-
ently strong to even suggest the rottenness, the
concupiscence, the mendacity and the cowardice
of that Spanish-Indiatt-Negro mongrel.
He tells of a murderous religious rite per-
formed by the natives-of the Hayti republic,
and demonstrates, that the worst mongrel of
all is a mongrel civilisation—a white culture
thrust into a black soul.
. Schultz loves war and Anglo-Saxons, and
hates mongrels with a terrible hate. Yet he
has a genuine concern for the laboring
classes of the States. He is most careless
of other races, careful even of the single
life in his own.
It is an arresting book, though on many
points not sound, and marred by ferocity.
It has an importance for Australians—more
for the questions it raises than for the pro-
blems it solves.
About books for Australian boys : “ Bym-
lygar” refers to The Yellow God and other
Australian and Pacific tales by Reginald
Horsley, a native of Sydney who was physician
on the Challenger, and now lives in Scotland.
“ Myrtle ” calls attention to Ernest Favenc’s
Ma/rooned in Australia as one that is more
likely to suit young boys than those men-
tioned recently by “Wang.”
G. A. Henty’s latest, A Final Reckoning
(Blackie and Son), is the ordinary English-
man’s mixture of blacks and bushrangers,
with plenty of fighting and a policeman for
hero. A Sunday-school teacher may with-
out qualms hand it over to the bright
scholar who passed well on the Hittites.
The same publishers send The Hidden
Nugget, by Alexander Macdonald, who has
the advantage of knowing Westralia, in
which the Nugget performs its usual part.
There is a cryptogram, a liberal supply of
bushrangers and a bush poet (only one, with
small samples of his doggerel) and altogether
it is not a bad yarn for boys.
By far the best book about the blackfell ow
written for young people is The Little Bloch
Princess of the Never Never , by Mrs. AEneas
Gunn, of which a new and revised edition
has been issued by Hodder and Stoughton.
All “the best people” of the Northern
Territory figure in this and the bigger book —
We of the Never Never , and a very humor-
some and interesting lot they are.
*
It. Crawford : My verse has Keen found
fault with on the score'of its stressed articles,
as in, for instance, this first verse from
“ Evening ” :
The light is drawn out of the leaves and grass,
And the sweet flowers grow pale in the gray air,
As if their beauty’s essence e’en did pass
With the departing light from all things fair,
As the sap in the trees when summer’s fled
Draws back to the earth, leaving the leaves dead.
I won’t go so far as to say that these lines
are musical, but I should like to draw atten-
tion to this peculiarity of stressed articles in
modern English poetry. Shakspeare and
the Elizabethans generally are remarkably
free from this characteristic, though Milton
in his early lyrics supplies many an example.
But look at these lines frofn Marvell’s famous
“Thoughts in a Garden,” in themselves so
famous : .
Annihilating all that’s made
To a green thought in a green shade.
Or take this verse from Blake’s “To the
Muses ” :
Whether in heaven ye wander fair,
Or the green corners of the earth,
Or the blue regions of the air
Where the melodious winds have birth.
Then coming to Shelley and Keats, con-
fessedly the most musical of all our English
lyrists, take Shelley’s “Ode to the West
Wind,” and Keats’ “ Ode to a Nightingale.”
In the former’s finest lyric these lines occur :
. . . there are spread
On the blue surface of thine airy surge.
Like the bright hair uplifted from the head
Of some fierce Maenad, even from the dim verge
Of the horizon to the zenith’s height.
The locks of the approaching storm. . . .
Will be the dome of a vast'sepulchre....
If I were a dead leaf thou mightest bear;
If I were a swift cloud to fly with thee ;
and from the greatest Ode of Keats take
these lines :
Cool’d a long age in the deep-delved earth . . .
O for a beaker full of the Warm'South... .
Past the near meadows, over the still stream,
Up the hill-side; and now ’tis buried deep
In the next valley-glades.. . .
Through the sad heart of Ruth, when sick for
home. .
Wordsworth and Byron, admittedly inferior
melodists, do not afford any such examples
of this characteristic. In it apparently
“ more is meant than meets the ear,” and it
is remarkable that it is most manifest in
those poets who display a strong lyrical in-
spiration, and in the moments of their most
intense meditation, as if their very words
were set to a mystic croon, and every syl-
lable (even though it were but an article)
had to have its distinct and peculiar intona-
tion. Does it not seem as if the strange
liquidity of the most musical of our modern
poets not infrequently owed its very fascina-
tion to this stressing of the article, as old
Chaucer’s verse music does-so often to his
stressing of what are now so many silent
“ e’s ” ? Of course, even in the reading of the
verse every syllable must be stressed ex-
actly as the poet stressed it in the making ;
slur the olden “e’s” or the modern the’s,
and the charm of the thing is gone.
-♦ :
In the extracts from Gordon’s poems, printed
last week, the title A Dedication should have fol-
lowed the second last quotation, not the last. The
lines “Lay me low — my work is done,” etc., are
from an unnamed poem printed in the appendix
to Sladen’s Australian Poets (1888). Selections
received too late from Alice E. D., Harrison 0.,
Utiku, H. Rendall, L. H. Fryer, L’Fou, T. H.
MoKinlay, G. Stenson.
Norman Lindsay writes from Colombo :
I have done a little work on the ship—bears
—for a book of bears, for which Edward
Dyson is going to do the letterpress. The
idea is a native bear who has been captured
and has learned the habits of civilisation, re-
turning to the bush to carry human culture
among the barbarian bush bears. lam post-
ing a dozen drawings with this from Colombo.
The fact is, I haven’t the intelligence for
anything beyond bears, and though quite
oblivious as regards personal discomfort to
the rolling of the ship, it makes any serious
drawing impossible by imparting a curious
feebleness to the direction of the pen stroke.
I have read considerably, chiefly, I am sorry
to say, of a species of novel which I find ex-
tremely suitable to the debilitated condition
of my intellect. I bought a large number of
sixpenny novels at Fremantle. Among them
were all I could get of Whyte Melville’s sport-
ing stories, which I found good reading. They
are really solidly thick-headed English pro-
ductions, written very much from the stand-
point of the swell gentleman of sporting
tastes who smoked the longest Laranagas,
grew whiskers with avidity, and put his nose
into a peg at night, to ensure a general
appearance of languid debility on rising. I
confess to finding extreme pleasure in such
an excellent exposition of Mr. Mantalini in
these books, and if you come across Market
Harborough or Tilburg Nogo, you’ll find them
well worth the trouble of reading.
You will lie pleased to hear that we intend
to do Italy pretty t horoughly. Our idea is
to put up for a week at the little pub outside
Pompeii, which Baedeker says is frequented
by most, artists and scientists, and the charge
is only six francs a day. I have got a lot of
the compositions for Petronius ready, and
written out a list of things to get first,
such as the candlestick that Eumolpus fights
with at the inn, and other accessories.
I have a thirst on me now to get to work.
It seems to me that it will give me some-
thing of real inspiration to be on the spot of
the stuff I have been mentally obsessed
with for so long. I see by the guide book to
the Naples Museum that every species of
household utensil, from cooking pots to door
hinges, is to be seen there with the naked
eye. We go from Naples to Rome, then
Florence, Venice, Milan, and round to
Marseilles.


A
a
Everybody at r Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
GUNS OF RENOWN
AT
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Scholefidd’s D.8.8.L. Gun
Steel barrels, left choke, bar
rebounding locks, Deeley
and Edge fore-end fastener,
engine-turned rib, Greener
treble wedge fast cross bolt,
half-pistol hand, hammers
below line of sight, 12-
gauge.
Price, £4 10s.
k
1
Hollis 8 Sons’ Panmure D.8.8.L. Gun
Top lever, Siemens-Martin steel barrels, bar locks,
Greener cross bolt, chambered for 2J cases. Right
barrel modified, left full
choke, high flat file-cut rib,
specially proved for nitro
powders, half-pistol hand,
stock. A thoroughly re-
liable gun, 12-gauge.
Price, £6.
Scholefield’s D.8.8.L. Gun
Twist barrels, left
choke, bar rebounding
locks, snap fore-end,
pistol grip, walnut
stock, double under-
bolt, hammers below
line of sight, 12-gauge.
Price, 675. 6d.
m
Write for Illustrated Sporting List, Post Free on request.
GEM
JUNIOR
Safety Razor
WTH
THE
NEW
BAR
||’V7
GE
sv
&
4*
#1
JE
~ Makes an
Ideal Present for any Man.
The Gem Junior Safety Razor, with the New Bar, adds still
further to the efficiency of this popular Safety Razor. THE GEM JUNIOR
provides a keen blade for each day in the week. Every blade automatically
adjusts itself, and as the BLADE does the shaving, it is the first consideration.
Gem Junior Blades are made from the best razor steel, tempered by
a process patented by the Gem Cutlery Co. (the oldest makers of Safety
Razors), and assure a keen lasting edge.
After using Gem Junior Blades several times they may be stropped
—the steel is superior, the temper and edge so fine that stropping makes
them as good as ever.
The New Bar smoothes out the creases of the skin, raises the beard
just ahead as'the cutting edge, and makes perfect shaving a simple matter.
The Gem Junior Safety Razor is made and finished in the best
style, of the best materials, and by the best workmanship. It comprises
Nickel-plated Frame, extra handle for Stropping Blades, and Seven Keen-
edged Blades packed in neat case.
m
iH
Anthony Horderns’
p ricc, 5 5
By Post, 5|9
TENTS FOR CAMPERS
offered at
TOP QUALITY and BOTTOM PRICE.
i
The TENTS enumerated below are made of STANDARD CALICO, and, with the exception of AX
quality, are SEWN BY HAND THROUGHOUT. Each will give a surety of satisfaction. Tents may be
purchased without flys.
CALICO TENTS.
FLYS TO MATCH.
AMERICAN DUCK TENTS (All Hand-Sewn). FLYS TO MATCH.
VAGABOND TENTS (Hand-Sewn Calico).
Anthony Horderns for Pipes, Tobacco 8 Cigars
TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR PIPE.
London Made,
Silver Mounted.
I).
25
26
28
29
Hand Cut
Vulcanite Stems
poK.4/8
THE 4/8 TRIUMPH BRIAR is the finest Pipe made, and guaranteed to be of the finest materials. It is
London made, Sterling Silver-mounted, with Hand-Cut Vulcanite Push Mouthpiece, and will not crack
or burn. Shapes as illustrated. Shapes No. 26 and 28 can also be had with Silver Push at 6/8 each.
THE A. H. & S. BRIAR PIPE
Selected Briar, Silver
Band, 2|g Post Free
I
'4 /J
■
Push Stems, Any Shape,
9IQ Post Free.
Send for
Tobacco List,
Post Free.
THE A. H. & S. BRIAR at 2/6 (Posted 2/8) is the equal of Pipes
often sold at four times the price. It is First Quality Briar,
Vulcanite Mouthpiece, Sterling Silver Band, Push Stem, shapes
as illustrated.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Jock Whisky
■
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrape >» BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book op Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving-s, 7/6-- Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
m
j
\L
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween tjie finders (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling- the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
o
sfl
KSi C?
The BROOKS Saddle
combines, as no other Saddle can, those two essentials
comfort and durability. Thousands of have proved that
statement —if you would do so, test it and maKe comparisons.
Remember, all Agents stock, and that we shall be delighted
to send Art Manual on request.
J. B. BROOKS 81 CO. LTD.,
The Saddle Specialists,
BIRMINGHAM,
ENG.
By Appointment to
ffik
His Majesty the King.
BOVRIL
is ALL beef—prime beef in a readily digestible form.
That is why BOVRIL is so invigorating a beverage, so
strengthening a food, why Cooks find it so useful, why Doctors
and Nurses recommend it, why the sensible housewife will
have nothing in place of it.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
** * < '■ * * ■ t V * . 'tf' V \ '
v > - v ‘ v * ‘
y . %- y 4 ifc £ V *y
m
H
«spii
'■." s *«‘i;»"....
CLOSED AS COUCH.
3®
%
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Next Distribution of Cash Surplus as at 31st Decomber, 1909.
Every participating Policy issued in the Ordinary Department, previous to the close of the current )tar,
will share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided Tor the year 1908, £740,385.
Total Bonuses distributed, £ 14,336,892.
The Society being a purely mutual institution, the whole of the profits realised are divided among the
participating Policy-holders. There are no Shareholders to first claim a share of the amount.
Accumulated Funds, £24,600,000. Annual income, £3,160,000.
Assurances can be effected for any sum up to £lO,OOO. For full particulars write to the Head Office, 87 Pitt
Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.,
General Manager and Actuary.
ROBERT B. CAMERON,
Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
Underwear
Hade in
England
MARK
3QVUJ.
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO..
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
For the NERVES and BLOOD
m
MR. TOM PA YNE.
NOTHING EQUALS
CLEMENTS
TONIC.
MR. TOM PAYNE, one of the leading comedians
of the Cinderella Opera Co., Sydney, is high in his praise
of this great blood and nerve restorer, and writes of it as
follows :
Cinderella Opera Co.,
Criterion Theatre, 10/9/’O9.
Clements Tonic Ltd.,
“ Since residing in Australia I have experienced great lassitude, nervousness and
lack of energy, due, 1 am sure, to your climate, new to me. In my profession nerve
strength and health are necessary to perform arduous comic parts. The strain is
always on the nerves to nightly satisfy the public. Finding myself run down and
far from well, I was advised to take your Clements Tonic (the recognised Australian
standard remedy for weak nerves), with the result that 1 now have splendid health,
a pleasure to enjoy. The invigorating, nerve-strengthening properties of your tonic
are undoubtedly beyond question.”
Witness—C. Lovely, J.P.
(Signed) TOM PAYNE.
Professional people should keep Clements Tonic always when travelling
or following their duties, especially in the hot summer months, when
the heat is oppressive and the nervous system prostrated. The effect of
its use will be to create good nerves and appetite, strengthen the system
and enrich the blood, giving immediate benefit. All chemists and store-
keepers sell it. 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per bottle. Keep it always in the house.
Manufactured
solely by—
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., BALMAIN.


<P"
The Best
Cough Drops
Are Drops
of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral.
Sixty years ago physicians first
used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, and
ever since then it has been the
standard cough remedy all over the
world. Thousands of families, in
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America,
keep a bottle of it in the house
ready for an emergency.
Mger’s
'Gherrn Sectoral
controls the spasmodic efforts of
coughing, relieves the congestion in
the throat, quiets the inflammation
in the bronchial tubes, and prevents
the lungs from becoming involved.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Be sure you get Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. It contains no
narcotic or poison of any kind.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &. Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
ķ
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade HEAD
Coventry Flyers
at loaß than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port In the World.
iriTiur inrUTO wanted in each die*
All I IVt flutnlo trict. Large profit!
easily made. Write ul once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., w. 2 so LIVERPOOL
ANTINEURASTHIN
■usually rebuilds the nervous system by feeding- the
brain and nerve centres.
ALL NERVE TROUBLES
can be speedily cured by the use of this food. Its effect
is rapid and permanent. The general feeling of health at
once increases, and a feeling of energy and mental vigor,
with consequent power of concentration of thought and
application to work, is obtainable. 1 Headaches and
neuralgic pains, and digestive derangements are
promptly banished, and the patient experiences a
renewed pleasure in life.
IT IS FUTILE
to take drugs and tonics when the nervous system is run
down and debilitated.
They may rouse the,system just as the whip may urge
the flagging energies of a worn-out horse. The temporary
over-stimulation is inevitably followed by a harmful
reaction, due to the drain on an already enfeebled ner-
vous system, and the body is left with weaker powers of
resistance; and therefore less able to bear fatigue than
before.
IT IS DANGEROUS,
as well as useless, to take tonics and drugs—the com-
position of which is unknown.
There is no secret about
ANTINEURASTHIN.
Every person applying •'(vill receive an exact analysis,
endorsed by the world-famous analyst,
W. LASCELLES-SCOTT,
whose opinion gives the hall-mark of scientific investi-
gation.
ANTINEURASTHIN is guaranteed not to contain
either STIMULANT or SEDATIVE. It is a natural
FOOD, based on true scientific principles, being com-
posed of such organic materials as are contained in the
Nerve substance itself. A descriptive treatise and
analysis will be forwarded, together with trial sample, on
receipt of one shilling in stamps or postal note, by the
Wholesale Distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
H. A GODDARD, Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
GLASS Qf?
HORuCK'f
Halted mil*
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing & Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horllck’s is on draught at
5 most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples' 82,Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd.,
Slough, Bucks, Eng.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
i
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
&
oofif tot*?.#:
IRISH
ill""'".'
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “BoNNiNG'i'ON’s’' of 40 years fame.
BONNINGTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
“5
fsamrerr
IRISH
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 16.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; .Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
6]
THIN
WOMEN
are always placed
at a disadvantage
by their full-
bosomed and per-
fectly - developed
sister. You, too, can be normally developed.
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD”
adds as much as five pounds a week weight
in ordinary cases, and develops the bosom
and hips by inches to normal. No woman
need remain thin and scrawny. Do as others
do—improve and perfect your charms.
Send 2d. stamp or call for a Free Sample.
Get our Free Book. Hours, £) a.m. to sp.m.
Falliere’s “Flesh-Food” Co,
Dept. 5,
Linden Coort,
Castlereagh St. ,
Sydney.
A LIGHT TREAD j
When you . wear Wood-Milne
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly—your step is light and
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the
nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wood-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
WOOD-MILNE
RUBBER HEELS
are made in Britain, from new, -
resilient rubber: t''ey enable you
to walk without fatigue, and give
'a surprising feeling of buoyancy
and vigour.
Look for the name W ood-Milne on
every heel, and refuse all imi Nation e.
mm's
fWgi
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose : — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION-
Hote the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label. <
<O/
Ah! m That’s it
The connoisseur can tell 0.0.
Whisky every time. Its fragrance,
its mellowness, its unique and
delicate flavour appeal at once
to the man with the discerning
palate.
And the water from which 0.0.
Whisky is made is so pure. It
Springs from the Heather-Clad
Hills of Orkney, far removed from
human habitation. Money cannot
buy a better whisky, because 0.0.
is perfection.
May we lend you our booklet “ Farthest
North, * together with name of nearest
0.0. Agent?
McConnell's Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House. Arundel Street, W.C.
Proprieters o'4
•Stromneas Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
ĸ
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Love so Frail.
The moon was still on the valley and hill.
The plain had the warmth of day.
He watched the love in her soft eyes fill.
And whispered, “Sweet, I will love you till”——
The grasses heard in a night so still.
But ’twas dawn when he rode away.
The stars were faint a-swoon in the sky.
The warm earth drowsed and slept.
“ I love you sweet, can you love deny ? ”
Not even a laggard breeze moved by.
Alone in the world with none else nigh.
But the frail night daisies wept.
The sun blazed high from the mountain peak;
The hot haze leapt on the plain.
The long nights paled her faint flushed cheek,
Of her lonely watch she might not speak.
But the shadows are deep in the still brown
creek,
And he will not come again.
The curlew cried on the plain heat-dried.
The wattles drooped on the hill.
Down the winding creek a night bird cried
Ever and ever as one denied.
The groping wiiid through the dead flowers sighed,
Sobbed once—and the world was still.
N.s.w.
CARO.
The Everlasting Game.
Grandpa sat in his old armchair
With pipe and a book and a cup o’ tea ;
No longer wide was the world for him,
Nor life as fair as ic used to be. ■ i.
And, wistfully gazing, his dim eyes saw,
Through the little space of the window pane,
Two lovers kiss by the garden gate,
And clasp in passion, and kiss again.
“ Dear me ” —he peered from his old armchair!
And his thoughtsflew backward and far away—
“To think,” he murmured, and rubbed his head,
“ That still goes on in the world to-day.”
VICTORIA.
ALPENSTOCK.
After.
I said, “ I’ll not weep.”
But the cricket shrilled
When I strove to sleep,
All my slumber killed !
I said, “ I’ll be gay.”
But the warm wind blew ■
The scent o’ the May,
And that brought—you !
I said, “ I’ll forget.”
But the fiddler played
One st ive; our lips met,
And that ghost’s not laid.
VICTORIA.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.
Sonnets.
HOT WIND.
Wind of the shrouded North, that all the day
Hast raged at close-shut pane and groaning
eaves,
Harried and seared the shuddering tender
leaves,
The wasted pasture smitten with dismay,
Back! one more swift than thou is on the way !
Back ! for the Desert fiery-hearted grieves
For want of thy fierce breath. As piled sheaves
The great sands poise them, motionless and grey ;
Who, at thy coming, will arise and lift
Skyward their eddying crests, and in their pride,
Stalk sentinel behind thee and beside;
And, look ! across the kindling ocean drift,
Thrusting in haste before him whitening seas,
Comes with shrill piping, eager, cold —the breeze.
BLUE DISTANCE.
Lord of all fires, thine unforgiving hand
Is on us at this season ! At our feet
Gapes the parched earth, nor any flower is sweet.
And noon is terrible with whirling sand.
To hidden places of this thirsty land
Thy watercourses dwindle and retreat;
Scarce can Thy creatures gather scanty meat
From pasture that Thy furnace-breath has fanned.
And yet on burning eyes Thy Distance lays
A quiet healing. Heaven’s own color, blue,
Steals from the smoky hills and climbing goes
By cleft and gully, till the extremest ways
Of naked verge and summit lift such hue
As wear our purest dreams against Thy sunset
rose.
MOUNTAIN ECHO.
Hast thou forgot the music, Hidden Throat,
Whereto alone thou answeredst in time past,
The crashing, perilous onset of the blast,
The thunder foiling sullenly remote ?
Doth not the magpie’s clanging, valorous note
Lightly from treetop unto treetop cast,
Or voice of rock-bound waters leaping fast,
Still in thy heart of dreams divinely float?
Now are thy haunts invaded. Hour by hour
Thou needs must make reply to axe and gun
And engine’s shriek; yet are such sounds as
these,
W hen as the great storms call to thee in power,
As though they were not, or, at set of sun,
When the pines whisper thee of breaking seas.
TASMANIA.
A. W.


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING’S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
Private Rooms for Dinner and Supper Parties can be
en §' a §fed for four to 30 persons. Banqueting Room for
250. Seating accommodation for 700 guests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 3.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can be purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12, 2/6.
A Feature of “THE BURLINGTON” is the
FISH AND OYSTER. CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the comm.unity are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen’s Retiring: Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 i.m. TILE MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
@3B
0
O^EQA 2
The Watch of
Matchless Merit
THE WATCHWORD IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy”—accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts—accuracy in assembl-
ing them —and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepers in the world.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “Th«
B-ulletin. ” Office
STEVENS
tmrntummm
New Visible Loading
Repeating Rifle No. 70.
The Most Accurate .22 Calibre Repeating Rifle Made.
Barrel rifled with slow twist, one turn in twenty-five inches. Weight pounds. Handles fifteen
short cartridges, which are always in sight whiie being fed into chamber. Extra double extractors."
The No. 70 Rifle is also manufactured for .22 long Rifle Cartridges.
The Stevens No. 70 Repeater is absolutely guaranteed, and bound to give universal satisfaction.
No. 70. Pitted with bead front and sporting rear sights.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [8
m
*
r
> -»
9Z
■ ■
.
§@ii s
m
ii
Tili'
mi
k-X&Mffl MI
;«/!"
'
llHi
iiliiiii
i • >
ydney Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1557.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1909.
Pkice 6d.
MR. WINKLE’S SUDDEN ATTACK OF COURAGE.
Whether Mr. Winkle was seized with a temporary attack of insanity which originates in a sense, of injury, or animated by this display of Mr. Weller’s valor, is uncertain; but certain
it is that he made a terrific onslaught upon a small boy who stood next to him ; whereupon Mr. Snodgrass announced in a very loud tone that he was going, to begin .—Pickwick Papers.
After having allowed the coal strike to last for five weeks, Premier Wade celebrated his return to his office by belaboring Mr. McGowen
“for doing nothing” in connection with the matter.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclhod. of
Musgrave and MoLeod Streets. Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.. at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ..." 0 7 0
Tin,,si”)ulinti direct to Tun Bulletin Office- Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin pouted
} erniiarh/ to you every tree!: for a- year.
Cheques, .Drafts, etc., and all lias iness Communications
tol>(addressed to William Maclkoii, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige the payer
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods o f address.
Business letters (with reyard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no ease be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manayer. To send them- to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a yood tinny to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin.” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
a lways is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
Tfie contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby exnressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted,,- whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(thosedealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 5000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Letters, or N' ewspaper Clippings.
All comnmnications will be regarded as strictly confi,-
dentidl.
Tiift Bulletin will returit, all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But. no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that, the cony is to be
destroyed if not acceptable.. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Thk Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is n'ot responsible, for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amnteurs in Black and White.
Anyonesupplying to Tiik Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkot reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted far direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be. paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is ,forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd. , Adelaide—at 4 /S per doz. nett.
Copies of Tim Bum.ktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Lady ate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High flolborn, London, ll'. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson,and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Dmban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Nor man,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Neivspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street; Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Boon and News Stores. Port Said.
Honglyong. —Brewer aiui Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates.size Of in. x lUin.,
ivill be' forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 10, l‘JO9.
THE ONE HORSE-POWER NAVAL
STANDARD.
I wonder if/ you all realise in Australia that you are a
gift to s Japan whenever she likes to walk in there ; and if
we sent you enough ships to tackle the Jap. fleet, the
Germans would be in London in a week.
Someone will perhaps remind us that between the two
countries there is a tyeaty of alliance for defensive pur-
poses, which is true. It is also as true now as when Wash-
ingtoNjlrving told us lohg ago “ that treaties at best are
but complied with so long as interest requires the fulfil-
ment., .‘'Consequently, they are virtually binding on the
weaker party only ; or, in plain truth, they are not bind-
ing at all-” — Recent letter in Sydney morning paper.
Englishmen are brace and confident because they know
nothing of what is going on. The valor of ignorance per-
vades the whole country.—Lord Roberts, according to a
cable message last week.
Within the last year or so there has been an un-
usual rush of well-known Australians to London,
by reason of the Press Conference and the Defence
Conference and other such occasions. They were
mostly>elderly Tory persons of moderate intelli-
gence and a great and “loyal” willingness to be
impressed; and from “Dr.” Ward, of Sydney
Telegraph, to “Colonel ” Foxton, of the Fused
Ministry, they came back greatly comforted. They
had seen a new thing, and were flabbergasted
thereby. They had viewed the British army, and
they found thatthemilitary weakness of Britain had
been much exaggerated. They had considered the
British navy, and gazing on it in amazement they
said that fear of attack from any source or by any
combination of Powers was mere folly. They had
looked upon the immensity of the British fac-
tories, and discovered that they had been deceived
by a lying tale about Britain’s decadence. They
were, on the whole, a comforting lot of prophets
when they came back. They were the Men Who
Had Been There, and the man who has been there
assumes a vast superiority over the one who
hasn’t. And yet the man who hasu’t been there
and who studies the case intelligently, is often
much the better authority of the two. And the
man who has been there is often more ignorant
and unreliable after his return than before.
•* * * *
It is quite probable that there was, a little over
2200 years ago, an intelligent Persian editor with
long whiskers, who was harassed by rumors of a
coming Macedonian invasion and the approaching
downfall of the Great King. Being a man who
believed in personal investigation, he took a
return ticket by saloon camel -.and went to inspect
the army of Daeius Codomanus. And he returned
reassured to report that the aymy of Daeius was
invincible—that there were Square miles of sol-
diers and solid acres of elephants, and that
nothing on earth could stand against it. Of
course, he quite forgot to look at Alexander's
army—all he knew was that the force he saw was
incredibly large by comparison with the two
policemen he was accustomed to view from his
office window. So it came to pass that the ink
was scarcely dry on the comforting leading article
which he wrote before he learned that the
army of the Great King was running for its life,
and that the prop had been knocked from
under Persia. And in similar fashion the long-
whiskered man from Pooncarie, being troubled by
dreadful rumors of Japanese invasion, may one
day resolve to see for himself how it is with his
country and the Empire. So he will hasten to
Bourke to personally examine the condition of the
British dominions, and having inspected the local
half-company of militia and viewed the newly-
enlisted irregular corps of Darling whalers he will
be reassured, and will realise that the imperial
forces are far larger than he had ever anticipated.
The man who has been there, when he has gone
there with the wrong species of mind, and has
only looked at one side of the case, is mostly that
kind of false prophet. And he is just as unre-
liable in industrial matters as in matters pf
defence. To one who has only seen—or
who perhaps never took the trouble to see-
the rising manufactures of N.S.W., the
decaying manufactures of Britain may seem
incredible in their vastness—so incredible that the
idea of decay appears impossible. But the indus-
tries of 1,600,000 people scattered over 310,000
square miles may look small and yet be very
healthy and progressive, while those of 44,000,000
people compressed into about one-third the space
may look very stupendous and yet be perishing.
The man who has been there is poor evidence
unless he has been there in an intelligent spirit.
* * •# •
When “Dr. ” Waed of the Sydney Telegbaph
paid his recent visit to England, he was staggered
—and he staggered Australia at second hand-
over three circumstances. One was the vastness
—the incredible vastness—of the British navy.
The second was the absurdity of supposing that
there could be any danger to the Empire with
such a navy. The third was the folly of imagin-
ing, now that he had seen what a real navy
was like, that Australia could ever possess a
real navy of its own. Yet if the great naval war
is postponed fora mere 15 or 20 years, only about
5 per cent, of the ships that “ Dr.” Waed looked
at will count for anything. The other 95 per cent,
won’t amount to a row of pins as regards the
defence of the Empire, nor will they exist in any
practical sense to bean argument as to the alleged
impossibility of a real Australian navy. The
only things that can possibly count in the
war of 1925 are the ships that were built
during the last five years or so, the ones
that are building to-day, and the ones that
are to be built during the next 15 years.
And this year Germany is spending more money
on the building of new warships—the ones that
should count in the great naval war of 1920 or 1925
—than either Britain or the United States. Nine
years ago it was the third Power in the world in
the matter of naval construction; now it is the first,
and apparently- it means to keep ahead. These
are the amounts voted for the building of new
ships during the present financial year by the
three great naval Powers :
Germany £10,751,406
Britain 10,251,000
United States 10,015,101
The boasted two-Power standard of the British
navy appears to have gone utterly. Seem-
ingly there isn’t even a wholly reliable oue-
Power standard now, and Britain is so ham-
pered by the enormous burden of pauperism
and poor relief that there is no immediate pros-
pect of things becoming better. And it must be
remembered that a German warship is worth
more than a British one in this sense, that it
doesn’t belong to a country of ruined agriculture,
which depends on importations by sea for its daily
crust; so it isn’t tied to the defence of its own
ports in the sense that the British fleet is tied.
Furthermore, Germany, though it is building new
warships faster than Britain, pays £15,000,000 less
per annum for the upkeep of its navy, because it
hasn’t the same stupendous herd of old ships to
man and provision and keep in repair. These old
ships will be of no real value in the great naval
scrum of 1920 or 1925, and their cost is stupend-
ous. brought great comfort to the soul of
“D..” Waed, of the Sydney Telegraph, when
he saw t :ein.
* * # *
Under these conditions, the statement that
Britain couldn’t assist Australia with any appre-
ciable naval force for fear the Germans wou.d be
in London before that squadron got back, wears
an aspect of solid truth. The case is one in which
old precedents are not worth considering, for
never since Australia was first occupied by the
white race was Britain in such a situation as
to-day. The old order has passed away—
for the time, at all events. Yet, though Aus-
tralia is doing something in the way of
defence, it isn’t taking the matter very seri-
ously. Nor is it taking the immigration
question, which is a most essential feature of
defence, very seriously. It is wildly proud of its
proposed squadron of one battleship and some
small vessels, but there is too much of a tendency
to regard this as the end of things instead of
merely the beginning, and a very small beginning
at that. Defence is a sort of gamble. A nation
may acquire it at great cost and then find that it
wasn’t needed just then, whereupon that nation
is apt to speak bitterly about wasted money. Or
it may save the money by not providing adequate
defence, and then find that the thing teas needed,
and having made the discovery, that nation dis-
appears from the list like the Hittites or the
Assyrians or the Piets or any other community
that can no longer be found in the directory. In
the same way a person may lead an honest, moral
life for fear there is a Hell, and be staggered
after death to learn that there isn’t; or he may live
in joyous riot on the supposition that there is no
Hell, and find that he has made an irreparable
blunder and that there is one. On the whole, it
seems better to take as few risks as possible.
There are quite a number of nations which have
discovered by experience that there is a Hell.
RUNNING A CONTINENT ON OLD-CLO’
SHOP PRINCIPLES.
The Deacook Fusion not only allowed one of its
own measures to be stabbed in the back the other
night, but itself assisted in the stabbing. Yet
Deakin, ostensibly the leader of the Fusion, was,
and is, in a very special manner bound to this
Northern Territory Bill. It was he who had per-
sonally made the agreement with the dead-and-
gone State Premier Price. And he ought to be
bound to it all the more closely because Price
had dared a good deal of local prejudice by con-
senting to the agreement, and had fought that
prejudice, and honorably carried out his
end of the compact. The State Frights and
Tory element in South Aus. was against any
transfer at all. The Territory, Price was told,
was far too good and valuable a possession to hand
over for the mere payment of a trifle of debt, less
by far than many a second-class city carries. But
Price was no narrow State-frighter. He saw that
what Fat wanted was permission to exploit the
possession for his own benefit, and he knew that
it was only by remarkable good fortune that Fat
had not been allowed to do it. Had the same
sort of boodling crowd ruled in South Australia as
ruled a few years back in Queensland, the Territory
would have been handed over to great syndicates
which would have been helped to get colored labor,
just as the Northern sugar-growers were helped to
get Tommy Tanna. But S. Australia never was in
the hands r-c Boodle to that extent. It pre-
ferred to s.e the debt grow year by year rather
than make good its Northern Territory finances
by smudging the map of Australia and helping
hordes of cheap colored labor to come in. Now
all the thanks the State gets from the pettifogging
vote-snatchers who have helped to tear up the
agreement which Deakin made, and fling the
fragments in the face of the man they call their
leader, is the snarling remark that it wants to get
the other States to pay its debts.
• * * *
The fact that South Aus. might have enriched
itself had it chosen to do on a mammoth scale
what Queensland did in a small way, and that it
held its hand in the interests of a white Aus-
tralia, is pushed right out of sight; all that these
little, narrow-minded men see is the few thou-
sands of pounds of debt. If, they argue, S. Aus-
tralia is relieved of this, it will be very well paid ;
and therefore the other part of the Deakin-
Price agreement, providing for the completion
of the Port Darwin-Port Augusta railway,
is coolly thrown out. And it is thrown out,
it is worth noting, not in the House of
Reps., but in the Senate, the House which is
supposed to protect State Rights. If ever there was
a matter before the Senate upon which its duty as
the guardian of State Rights was clear it was this
case. S. Australia had made a bargain with the
Commonwealth, through its P. .me Minister, and
unless excellent cause was shown it was the duty
of the Commonwealth Parliament to honor that
agreement. If, however, it was so bad an agree-
ment that it could not be accepted, then the duty
of the man who made it seems clear also—-prompt
resignation ought to follow the Parliament’s
refusal to honor his bills. With his own agree-
ment torn up and thrown at him, Deakin can no
longer maintain both his office and his self-
respect. He knows perfectly well that it
was not because the}' took a national view
of the matter that members of his own party voted
t)Q dishonor his political cheque. He knows that
it was out of pure local selfishness; he knows that
they sacrificed him and his agreement in order to
curry favor in their own electorates and catch a
few votes. If Alfred Deakin is prepared to
continue at the head of a party which cares that
mpch for its leader's promissory notes, then all
the yarns about his high regard for honor and so
oij can safely be dropped into the waste-paper
basket, or the ash-bin, or any other handy old re-
ceptacle for rubbish.
■But whether Alfred Deakin rises to the occa-
sion or not, Australia will yet have a word or two
to say about the matter. Apart altogether from the
agreement, and apart altogether from the obliga-
tions under which South Australia has put the
Commonwealth forhavingkept the Northern Terri-
tory free from the coolie and the kanaka, Aus-
tralia will see that this vote-snatching policy of a
few huckstering politicians threatens to hang up
indefinitely the acquisition of the Northern Terri-
tory. Evpry day that the Territory is out of
the Commonwealth’s hands cuts a day off the
time that Australia will have for preparing its
defences. It is admitted that, if the agreement
which Deakin made, and which was the basis of
this Bill, is violently departed from, another
agreement will have to be come to with S. Aus-
tralia. That means delay—and we have delayed
for nine years already. But what confidence will
, S. Australia have in making any other agree-
ment? Remembering what has happened in this
case, what right has it to expect that even if it
does an unspeakably foolish thing and gives way
upon the transcontinental line, something vital
will not be cut out of the new agreement ?
What confidence, in fact, can any State have
in negotiating with the Commonwealth after this
dishonoring of the Prime Minister’s agreement, if
the Prime Minister takes it lying down ? Every
State will feel, unless this reproach is wiped out,
that it deals not with a great national Parliament,
which considers matters from a broad Australian
point of view, but with a collection of huck-
stered. It will be deplorable if the State which
takes the broadest national view of things, and
asks only for what it believes to be fair and just
and best for Australia—it will be deplorable if
that State is penalised while the selfish State,
with the old-clo’ shop instinct better developed,
comes out on top.
* * * •»
But supposing the matter is settled on old-clo’
shop principles, thisis the situation that has to be
faced. •’S. Australia holds the NorthertfTerritory.
It has pushed a railway up to Oodnadatta—a
work which it would never have done if it had
regarded Oodnadatta as the terminus. That rail-
way was simply a section of a line to cut through
the Territory. While the State holds the Terri-
tory it has the power not only to build that line,
but to build it, if it chooses, on the land-grant
or any other system. But the minute it
hands over the Territory it loses . that right.
And now that it knows .hqw hard a
struggle will be made to drag the railway
into the eastern States, leaving the Oodnadatta
line ending nowhere, it is far less likely to hand
over that right than it was before. Once, when it
could have trusted the National Parliament more
fully, it might have been content, on a pinch, to
hand the Territory over without conditions. But
Foxton, Chataway, and the rest have shown
their hand too plainly. The point which those
people overlooked is that South Aus. need not
play at all. It has the Territory, and it can no
doubt keep it, and proceed to negotiate fora land-
grant railway. Then, when the Commonwealth
is forced to take the Territory over, Aus-
tralia will find that the eyes have been
picked out of the country by some blastiferous
syndicate or other. If that happens it will
be a calamity ; but Foxton, Chataway and the
others will be responsible for the calamity, not S.
Australia. This, then, is the suit that S. Australia
holds, though at present it does not want to play
it. If the State is compelled to play it—if it is
driven into the huckstering business—what cards
does the other faction hold ? None, absolutely
none.
UNDERGROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was in the S. M. Herald I read how the strike
was to be settled:—
... .1 beg: to make the following suggestion. Let a call
be made upon clerks, shopmen, University students and
others. ...
I am a retired civil servant, aged 65, and as tough as
shoenails, and offer my services. With a six-shooter in
my belt, I would not care twopence for the man Pktkr
and his misguided disciples.
Another meddling shoemaker, who evidently
lias never been near a mine, valorpusly volun-
teered to go and help the other meddling shoe-
maker.
Think of this doughty cobbler in a bord, four
miles from the pit bottom, 800 ft. below the sur-
face. Picture him standing ankle-deep in water,
pick and shovel in hand, the ringhandle of a Davy
lamp clutched between his chattering teeth,
damp, foul gloom creeping into his soul, and the
splitting, grinding roof groaning for timber lest it
fall and crush him into eternity. Standing there
in that hellish gloom, with straining ey’es and
choking lungs, the gallant snob would realise the
largeness of a miner’s heart; it would break in
upon him that the making of a miner is a slow and
tedious process, and that he cannot be_so readily
replaced by an immaculately-dressed Civil ser-
vant, a clerk, or a shopman whose knowledge
does not extend beyond making 6oz. of butter
look like Boz., and4oz. of acetic acid masquerade
as a gallon of vinegar.
Down there in the bowels of the earth, down
in that foul darkness, lighted by the sickly flicker
of a half-candle power safety lamp, he would
begin to think —think of the man who, working
under these conditions, receives one penny for 20
tons of small coal. One penny—not even the
price of half a loaf of bread. Yet at what a risk !
An hour, a day, a week—the time matters no-
thing; the risk is always there. Death, often a
horrible death, faced with a willing heart, defied,
triumphed over; and the reward— one penny !
Go down in to the pit, grope your Way into the hole
which leads to a 4ft. seam of coal, and, standing
to the ankles in water, see with me the conditions
under which we work, tearing out a miserable
existence for ourselves and those depending on us.
Lie here upon your back, and in that position
strenuously wield a pick. Call up a tyrannical
manager ; urged on by an opulent mine-owner, he
stands over you, often with a sneer upon his lips,
while he haggles whether he will pay you a penny
more or a penny less for the class of work you are
doing.
Then, after eight hours sweating in almost total
darkness, ascend to the pit-top with aching eyes
and tired limbs ; come to the blackboard, and see
there, chalked in large plain letters, your number,
and the order—“ Take two days off for dirty coal.”
This may happen on the second day the pit has
worked after a long spell of idleness. After you
have served your sentence and are ready to
start work again, the pit whistle, as if gloating
over your misery and disappointment, may blow
a short, sharp shriek. That short whistle means
no work to-morrow, nor perhaps the next day,
nor the next, fcjo the fortnight drags out, and
you are left with two days’ pay to draw. Even
your more fortunate comrades have only four.
All this passes quickly through your mind as
you read your sentence on the board. It is no use
protesting ;no explanation will be accepted. If
the Davy lamp does not give enough light for you
to distinguish dirt from coal, that is the fault of
the inventor. But he is dead itnd cannot argue,
so the blame is yours. You sent up a skip of
coal. It was searched at the pit-top. It was
found to contain a certain amount of dirt (a slaty
stone which runs through the seam of coal). Your
crime was discovered ; you must pay the penalty.
With weary limbs you trudge the two miles to
your home ; and by the time you reach your
door your feelings are an anarchist's.
With a wife and two children depending upon
him, a miner, who had been through these things,
accepted surface work offered him by a manager.
In the blinding heat of a summer this man had
twice a day to clear the ashes from the pits of six
boilers; the steaming ashes had to be wheeled in
a cumbersome barrow to a tip 70 or 80 yards dis-
tant; he had to perform other arduous duties in
between ; and for these things he received ss. 3d.
per day. For five or six weeks he struggled,
clearing six boilers of their ashes, emptying the
skips of stone and dirt and stable filth as they
were sent up from the pit, supplying the fan
boilers with small coal, trimming tiie coal for the
main boilers when required, and in his spare time
doing any other job that required attention. If
he had any minutes to spare, he must go to an
old dirt tip which had tired and was slowly
smouldering its way to the pit top, and there,
amidst suffocating fumes, he must dig drains, and
fill them with sand and water so as to check the
fire.
This man did it all, and was glad to do it. But
the fire fumes beat him at last, and another man
took his place.
My meddling shoemaker, God knows how that
man struggled to keep his place; for his family's
sake. 1 know too ; for I was the man.
Yet, meddling snobs, with your narrow minds
and your petty class hatred, you demand that
such men be sent to prison ! You shriek to the
Government to “set the Law ill motion 1” You
proclaim yourselves ready to pick up the tools
that the miners flung down when they rushed to
the pit top crying for justice. " You deafen your
ears to the cry of the women and children, many
of whom at the best of times are barefoot and
ragged. You rejoice when the Press tells you
that the pinch of starvation is beginning to work.
You gloat over the picture of a child begging for
bread.
But you gloat in vain ! The pinch of starvation
may be felt, but those who feel it have felt it so
often that they no longer fear it. 1 speak with
the knowledge of experience. I have lived and
worked and starved when, through slackness of
trade, mines have lain idle for months at a time.
I have looked upon the pinched faces of my own
children. I have seen the agony of a helpless
mother. I have seen the brave wife trying to
hide the signs of poverty, so that even her
neighbor might not know of its existence. And,
while they have hidden their poverty 1 have seen
families eat bran. If you pit Starvation against
these people, you pit it against an army of
veterans.
And you—you of the city—you rush into the
streets, snatch a paper from the nearest newsboy,
and, after hastily swallowing its contents, you
throw your arms frantically in the air and shout
to the Government to crush these men ere your
own petty business fall about your ears in ruins.
At which shout the meddling shoemaker hurries
from his last, and with a s;x-shooter in his belt
isn’t afraid of any Peter !
And this retired civil servant, who boasts of his
65 years and his sinews of shoe-nail toughness, he
whose iife has been bound up in red-tape and ser-
vility and p.iper-fed reasoning, let him come
with me, and I will take him into the earth ;
and there I will show him men, white-lia.red and
age-worn, of 65 and 70, with limbs and bodies


screwed, bent and racked with rheumatism, with
weakened lungs and blinded eyes, still groping,
grinding and sweating to tear an existence out of
the hands of Death. These men have not retired.
They know they never will retire. All they hope for
is to be allowed to work; the best they can
dream of is to die working.
To die working. The wives and mothers of
these men, they, too, have that awful thought
always with them —Will their man come home
again ? When they can banish that thought there
is always another—Will the whistle “ blow short”
to-day ?
The Civil servant may boast of his age and
strength ; he may be willing to shoot down men
who struggle to make things easier for their
children than they have been for themselves ; but
if he knew the facts, if he had one ounce of ex-
perience, he would go down upon his bended knees
and thank God that he became a Civil servant
and not a coal miner.
PIT BOY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
On National Grounds.
It was notified last week that “ the only matter
that may cause a curtailment or postponement of
the ‘ Kitchener camps ’ is the present coal strike.”
That is to say, if the trouble .doesn’t end shortly,
Johnson’s trains may refuse to carry the local
warriors to the field of sham-battle. It opens up
a pleasing vista. Supposing a situation of the sort
arose at a time when the Commonwealth was
menaced by a foreign invader, it would quite
conceivably mean that the entire continent would
be rendered impotent from a defence standpoint.
Railways are as. much the recognised essentials
of modern warfare as rifles, horses and
artillery. The Constitution recognises that
fact by providing that in time of need
the Commonwealth may “exercise a modified
control over the railways so far as may be neces-
sary to regulate the transport of forces and
material for naval and military purposes.” But
in order to exercise even this modified control
over the railways, it must have a complete control
over the sources of coal supply which feed the
railways. The Australian Parliament has stated
its intention of immediately, borrowing £3,500,000
sterling wherewith to build warships. Yet it is
liable, when those warships are delivered, to find
itself in the grotesquely tragic position of being
unable to dispatch a single battalion of soldiers to
defend any given port where the costly vessels
may be sheltering, or to supply even a gunboat
with enough fuel for half-an-hour’s steam. So,
under present conditions, the of the nation
and the nation’s fleet depends entirely on whether
or no a privately-owned monopoly is going to hit
it off amicably, day by day, with the men in
its emploj’. The alternative is the Common-
wealth ownership of coal supplies. But the
“Anti-Socialist” dailies, which agree heartily
with the principle of railway-nationalisation,
scream affrightedly that the idea of coal-national-
isation is “unthinkable.” Naturally they advance
no arguments in support of that view. As a fact,
the nationalisation of the coal industry is a
Corollary on the nationalisation of the railway
industry. The break-down of Johnson s arrange-
ments, and the loss anc| inconvenience which
almost the whole State has suffered, simply drive
home that contention. Idealising the danger of
divorcing the two industries, Laborites in
this and in other States have for years past
been urging the wisdom of nationalising the
coal-business, or at any rate enough of the coal-
business to ensure the running of the trains. But
that same policy has been combated by the same
old crowd which always butts hard agaiiist any
progressive proposal, and continues butting to
the last; and thus it is that Australia is faced to-
day with one'of the most unpleasant crises it has
known. And- in this extremity what does the
same old crowd offer ? At the present time while
the Herald and the -Aug us are crying with one
voice that the N.S.W. Government shall come
along and “guarantee” a privately-run coal con-
cern, and with another voice that “free labor”shall
be secured (regardless of the law of the land and
the safety of the workers), and while “ Bro
Bono,” “ Anti-Socialist” and the rest are making
even wilder suggestions in the correspondence
columns, the disorganised Ministry with frenzy in
its eye has embarked on the weird enterprise
of importing coal at an immense price from
abroad ! The nation which relies on importing
its fuel every time trouble strikes it in the coal
belt deserves all that is coming to it. If only as
an integral part of the railway machine, which is
an integral part of the defence machine, the coal
industry clamors for nationalisation, and at once.
. -*4-
If the Commonwealth Owned the Coal.
This comes to The Bulletin from a man who
knows as much about the iron industry as anybody
in Australia,:—
The Bulletin concluded its article on “Too Many
Strikes” (2/12/’O9) in this way:,“The only permanent
remedy lies in making coal else Federal—pro-
perty. Seeing that all Australia depends to a great ex-
tent on the N.S.W. mines, coal, should be Federal pro-
perty.” The Federal Government has decided on erect-
ing the arms factory at Lithgow,, and as coal is essential
for carrying on the factory, I would urge that The Bul-
letin's idea should be carried out, and that both coal
and iron should he worked under the Defence Depart-
ment ; so that the Government might not only be able to
make the guns, but also the raw material required, in
the shape of iron and steel, and to make it of the quantity
and quality wanted.
As sure as the sun will rise to-morrow, we shall have to
fight for our existence some day ; and the day may come
before we are ready. We want our army to consist of a
fine, strong, courageous, high-spirited lot of men, who
not only know how to shoot, hut can manufacture the
guns and all munitions of war—men who can not only
build a bridge, but make the iron and steel in it ; meii
who can, in fact, take the iron ore, coal and limestone of
a country and convert it into all the necessary material
for defence. Is not this the great opportunity for start-
ing this work? We are holding in trust one of the finest
countries on the face of this earth. The Federal Govern-
ment has started a scheme to defend that country, but
it is not complete. Instead of having to borrow money
for building ships of War whichunay become obsolete in a
few years, let us tap other channel’s of revenue and make
our army complete in every way. What is the use of an
army when the piost modern guns are in another part Of
the world ?
Let us try to see the effect of Federal collieries and
Federal iron and steel works. To start with, by a coinci-
dence before me lies the Queensland Department of
Mines’ record of the geological survey of Queensland
(publication No. 100). It reports the proceedings of the
Iron Bonus Commission. Captain G. A. Richard, of the
great Mount Morgan, questioned by Mr. Kingston, stated
that “ he had had about 20 years’ practice, and had had
considerable experience in metallurgy, including iron and
steel. He was in a position to express an opinion as to
the prospect of successfully establishing iron and steel
works in Australia. The price of pig iron varied; but
the statistics which he had with him gave the lowest price
in America as BI 15s. 4d. pe> ton? On an average, when
the selling price pf pig was £llls. }o£d., steel was £3 6s. 9d.
That was a good-average steel practically cost
twice as much as pig iron. He had not worked out exactly
the cost of producing a ton of pig iron in Australia, but
it would probably he from 38s. to 40s. That would be
under the most favorable conditions, and he had not
allowed anything for interest on the cost of plant or for
mau. gemeiit. These items, in the caoe of a large output,
would come to a very small sum ; possibly Is. or 2s. per
ton would be sufficient.” We will suppose the iron ore
and coal lands belong 1 to the Federal Government.
(Pr.vate interests would have to be purchased, of course.)
‘ a blessing it would be if coal, iron and steel, up to
the finished bars, were made under the best management,
with the most modern machinery, and supplied to all
users at cost, plus interest and depreciation! The
advantages to bur manufacturing interests would be great
indeed- Our iron manufactures and engineers have
now a tariff. What they want next is cheap coal, pig
iron and iron and steel in bars and sections at lowest
rates.
By the latest statistics, the imports of iron and steel of
all sorts,for the ten months of 1909 were at the rate of
£10,000,000 per annum. Most of this should be spent in
Australia. What a prospect we have befo.e us, starting
with Federal collieries.
♦
Playing With Powder.
Acting-Premier Lee, of N.S. W., announced last
week that he was getting ready to let off some
fireworks on a barrel of gunpowder. Parliament,
recognising that coal-mining is a dangerous busi-
ness, and that one man’s blunder may be a
hundred men's funeral, passed a law providing
that, if an inexperienced mangoes to the work,
lie shall; have with him one who has been at it for
at least two years; And the law provides that an
inexperienced man shall not be employed under-
ground op any Other conditions. Now, however,
Acting- Premier Illegal-Lee makes the astound-
ing statement that this law will be svpeuded if
the mine-owners ask for ijts suspension. No
more staggering announcement has ever been
made by a Premier in this country* If
Ministers can suspend one law they can suspend
another. Probably in their opinion Peter Bow-
ling is a- person who Would be better dead. If
they can suspend the law relating to coal-mining
they can 'suspend the law relating to murder, so
that Peter Bowling may become as dead as'some
of them probably wish that be was, without un-
pleasant consequences happening to anybody.
They forget, however, that it may be the
other people who may suspend that particular law;
and that would make it awkward for
other people besides Mr. Bowling. For Mr.
IlregAl-Lee is not always going to be in
pqwer—the other people will have a turn some
dfjy. Fortunately, however, it isn’t quite so easy
to suspend laws as Mr. Illegal Lee may think.
Sitting away in a quiet court somewhere is an
elderly gentleman with grey whiskers named
; ; and when somebody tells this elderly
gentleman that a person named Lee, backed up by
another person named Wood, suspended this or
tjpg>t law, the remarks of the elder]y gentleman will
he worth recording. Mr. Griffith, who happens
to be Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,
will probably ask who these anarchist persons are,
And ifibe is informed that they are persons of evil
minds and dispositions who have put their heads
together to defeat the laws of this country, he
may even make some remarks about conspiracy
and treason, and other interesting things that may
lead: to glory if they succeed, but to plain, cold
gaql if they don’t.
; ♦
Johnson : his Appearance of Evil.
N.S. W. Railway Commissioner Johnson is about
due for a bad time. When the strike occurred
his Department rushed in and bought from the
Vend companies thousands of tons of coal at prices
that ranged from 255. toAOs. per ton. Much of
this coal was bought from companies which weie
under contract to supply the Department at 11s.
or less per ton. When the strike had been in
progress for some time a firm named Kethel
and Co., which was not in the Vend, made an
arrangement with the Miners’ Federation by
which it was enabled to open two mines and do
something towards mitigating the coal famine.
These two mines were described by the morning
papers as “the Strikers’ Mines” because they
were to be worked on the profit-sharing basis.
Immediately they started work the Railway Com-
missioner announced that no coal would be hauled
in the Newcastle district. Later on it was stated
that the coal would be hauled if the Com-
missioner was given half of it at a “reason-
able price.” This was agreed to. Then,
growing hungrier, the Department demanded
the whole of the coal, and took it. While
it still paid 15s. per ton for “strikers’ coal,”
Which was good, large coal, it was paying
2Ds. per ton for small stuff of vastly poorer
quality. And while these proceedings were
taking place, it was announced that Mr. Johnson
was dining with Mr. Lijaumonth, the chairman
of the Trust whose obstinacy in refusing an open
conference is the cause of the present national
woe, Of course it may be only a stern regard for
the interests of the Department that has in-
fluenced Mr. Johnson to take, the course of. action
he has ; and it is quite possible that be *tnd Mr.
LearmONTH collogued merely because of a. great
yearning for one another s company, and that the
strike was never mentioned ; but in cases like
this Mr. Johnson would do well.to remember the
precepts of the Old Book and avoid the appear-
ance of evil. When the daily papers, reporting
the Commissioner’s refusal to carry the “miners’
coal,”eameout with a big type heading, “CHECK-
MATE,’’itsbould have been a strong enough “tip”
for any self-respecting head of a Government de-
partment. Of course, the papers eulogised him for
“ checkmating ” law-breakers by refusing to carry
their coal. As the mines belonged to Messrs.
Kethel and Co., it is difficult to see where the
argument applied ; but, anyhow, Mr. Johnson is
here to run the railways, and not to decide who are
and who are not law-breakers. Trial by Railway
Commissioner without the right of being heard in
defence is an astounding proposition; neverthe-
less, it has been seriously put forwaid by the
Sydney dailies. >
;♦
The Position in Papua.
From a Papuan man, in whom The Bulletin has
a lot of confidence :
Nothing is burning in Papua like the question how
best to tax the native, and how best to persuade Australia
that some taxation is necessary.
A Bill, con 1 n.u.dbig certain periods of labor for the
village and other natives, has been summarily thrown
out—in Australia. This hag discouraged officialdom, and
it is now stiffly on its dignity. In the meanwhile, the
whj’s and wherefores of native taxation might be aired
for the benefit of the Australian taxpayer.
Why tax the Papuan at all? Because, being looked
after by an expensive administration, he ought to con-
tribute. That is one reason. In round figures his
guardianship absorbs about two-thirds of £50,000
annually. Of this, £20,000 is granted by the Common-
wealth, and local revenue makes up the balance.
Is not the Papuan already taxed, then ? Yes, no doubt
—hut to an extent that is hardly worth mentioning. See
the report of the Papua R >.vai Commission (1906): “If
we assume one-half of the Customs revenue as being paid
b,v natives, and that the goods are distributed among
150,000 natives, this would mean that at present the
Papuan pays about one shilling per head to the revenue,
while the European man, woman and child contribute
over £lO each.” Again: “It may be argued that the
natives are already, in an indirect way, paying a certain
amount of taxation in return for benefits received
through the ‘trade’ which they buy from Europeans ;
but in the opinion of your Commissioners this is a totally
inadequate quid pro quo for the money spent and being
spent their behalf; and therefore, from the standpoint
of payment in return for services rendered, your Com-
missioners consider it would be only fair to ask the
natives within the sphere of official influence to subscribe
directly towards the upkeep of government.” That is as
true to-day as it >vas in 1906.
On the whole, the native looks rather patronisingly on
the ordinary white. For the Government be has a
sneering, although veiled, contempt. Officials s ldoin
learn this, being surrounded by natives who fawn ; yet
they get many instances of treachery. The “Gub’miij’"
is usually regarded as a retributive protector, and. on the
whole, considered fair game up to a certain point. The
rest depends on the magistrate. A tax would make the
native feel that he was individually governed. It wojiltl
assist in—
(1) The building of a fund to benefit the Papuan him-
self in his incapable or infirm days.
(2) Making the Government more intimate with vital
native affairs.
(3) Securing more respect for the Government.
(4) Securing an imp. oved labor market—to the Papuan’s
•wn advantage.
Says the report of the Papua Royal Commission:
“ Will it (a tax) operate towards the improvement of the
natives themselves ? We believe it will, for its tendency
must be in the direction of making them work. If P pua
is only to he considered as a natives’country, in the sense
that they are to be allowed to work out their own destiny
in their own way, then we have already gone too far ; for
in giving the coastal tribes a guarantee of peace, we have
removed the necessity for their being constantly prepared
for War, and as a result they are rapidly falling into
slothful and evil habits, sure twin companions of idle-
ness in any country. . . . With one or two exceptions,
every white man examined in Papua has expres.-ed him-
self as in favor of taxing the native in one form or
another; and while many advocated it as a reasonable
means of obtaining more revenue, all agreed that it was a
proper tiling to do from the standpoint of native regener-
ation. Among the witnesses will be found officials of
every grade, from the Administrator downwards; settlers
representing each phase of industrial life, and mission-
aries representing different faiths.”
In what way, then, can the Papuan be taxed?
At this late day, I suggest a cash hut tax of ss. per
annum per family. Everything favors it.
(1) It would be simple and prompt.
(2) Registration would be a process comparatively free
of complications.
(3) Collection of tax could be accomplished without an
increase of more than one officer to each present, division.
(4) No simpler form of taxation could he put before the
natives.
(5) Generally, it would not be resented by the natives.
(6) As each family could be traced, a complete census
of the native population could be effected—a most desirr
able and necessary thing.
(7) Finally, it would draw closer attention to the con-
dition of dwellings, of sanitation, of hidden diseased
natives, and of the evil huddling of houses—which latter
is a source of danger in cases of fire and epidemics, e.g.,
whooping cough or measles, etc. ,
Can the Papuan meet the tax? Indentured laborers
can, of course, do so ; and their parasitical
brothers can if they must. The latter can do it by gird-
inir their loins, and exchanging rubber, gold, sandalwood,
ivory-nuts, pearls, pearl and turtle shell, copra, curio's,
etc., for cash at the hundred and one stores and trading
depots. That indentured naiives handle a surprising
amount of cash in the space of one year maybe learnt
from the Papua Annual Report, 1907-S. Wages payable
at Samarai labor office alone were £18,807.
At a low estimate, the number of dwellings occupied by
natives entirely under official influence would be 20,000,
if we except the enormous structures in the Western
Division, where each dwelling accommodates scores and
scores of families. This number of houses (20,000) would
represent villages which, for the last nine to 25 years,
have been under the immediate eye of the Government,
and cons quently are ready for registration, and, on
timely notice, for taxation.
Is the time ripe for taxation? In the Papua Annual
R'port, 1907-8, no less than three differently-situated
magistrates alluded vigorously to the lamentable con-
dition the natives in their respective divisions were
lapsing into. Thu- (p. 54): " The sooner some means of
making the tightly-laced and ornamental young bucks go
out and dosotne work, instead of, as now, loafing around
the villages, the better.” And (pace 56); “ • • • Another
cause which I think is responsible for at least 50 per cent,
of ihe crimes in this district is the fact that the young
men of the district mostly loaf about, sponging on their
parents for food, and occupying themselves ill no useful
manner.” Again (page 63): “There are, of course,^ a
number of u-eless loafers attached to each, village who
will never work unless absolutely compelled todo so. At
present, this species of loafer lives nn the industry of the
other natives, and lives remarkably well, too.”
Loafing, sponging and crime ! Surely enough—the hen
is coming home to roost. Australia doesn’t know the
trouble it is storing up for itself by holding-off the taxa-
tion of these people. It might, however, listen to the
practically unanimous opinion of the men who have
lived in the Possession, and who know the natives, and
whose one object in offering that opinion is to do a slight
service cb the Australia we still love—even though it
odesn’t give us a vote at present.
T ♦ ’
When the Wade Government throws mud at its
own Industrial Disputes Act, it seems absurd to
expect those who have always opposed it to uphold
the thing. The Act which thp Wade party
passed to replace the old Arbitration Court was
to prevent lock-outs and strikes ; it provided that
anyone guilty of either, or of instigating, sliding,
or abetting either a lock-out or a strike, should be
liable to a penalty not exceeding £lOOO, or, in de-
fault, two months’ imprisonment. But when a
man named Holland went to Broken Hill and
“ instigated,” he was notWealt with byjthe Wade
Government under its own Industrial Disputes
Act, but was run in on a charge of sedition,
and gaoled under the Common Law of dead and
gone .Judges of the Georgian age. Again, when
the Neweastle miners went on strike, the Wade
Government seemingly forgot all about its precious
Industrial Disputes Act, and sat back and did
nothing, except, it may he. to incite its officers to
take the part of the Goal Vend. When the best
part of a month had passed it grew suddenly ener-
getic, and proceeded against the “strike leaders,”
but not under the Industrial Disputes Act. Again
the Government dropped its own creation over-
hoard, and instead of haling the leaders before the
Industrial Court by summons', it arrested them
on a charge of conspiracy under the Common
Law, made by some more dead-and-gone
Judges. Bad as this was, the manner in
which it was perpetrated was infinitely worse.
The strike leaders were travelling to Newcastle
by train, which contained also 70-odd poliee.
Practically the whole Newcastle force was on the
railway platform in battle array, and said to be
armed with revolvers and clubs, and the leaders
of the miners were clumsily “ lumbered ” in the
midst of a swaying crowd which had assembled to
welcome them home. Apparently the Govern-
ment was anxious for a riot, and short of an attack
on an unarmed and peaceful crowd didn’t care
much what it did to obtain its row. That it didn’t
get the riot it seemingly wanted wasn’t the
Government’s fault—it was the crowd’s virtue.
Victoria got itself an inspector of charities last
year, and in return it is being told a lot of in-
teresting things about its subsidised hospitals,
etc. For instance, when one concern didn’t know
what another concern was doing, and had no way
of finding out, it seems that some people went in
for “ charitable relief ” on commercial principles,
and got all they could of it, even if they
had to get it from three or four socie-
ties simultaneously. They had become so used
to doing it that even when an inspector was
appointed they didn’t ease off. But the enter-
prising person who made a business of being
“ relieved ” is going to meet with a lot of State
interference in future. Then the inspector poked
round and wanted to know what the various sub-
sidised concerns were paying for supplies ; and he
got some amazing results there too. Even in Mel-
bourne one hospital was paying, for instance, 6d.
for bread while another was paying ln the
To Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soon shall the sundering borders fail to stay your
nation’s march,
Free as the winds above you ; free as the skies
that arch.
Held not all to the cities, nor timidly camped by
the sea.
The Heart and the North of Australia shall know
trade and traffic for ye.
Yours be the courage to bear ; yours be the clever
guile!
Following not the Egyptian, who rotted by
ancient Nile ;
Free and bold and alone—free from the Old
World myths!
Entering the plain and the ocean, leaving the
shelt'ring friths.
By Wyndham and by Darwin and their tre-
mendous tides,
The ocean’s power ye shall harness to spin silk for
your brides;
The strength of the Triple Oceans ye shall bind to
work in the mill.
And the Flores tide of forty feet shall slave to do
your will.
Power from the sea for nothing, to answer the
rich man’s fright,
To make your wares the cheaper and to keep your
country white.
The Flinders grass of the Queensland plains shall
help your millions eat —
A hundred leagues by fifty leagues white with the
bending wheat.
The five-mile furrow ye shall score in the fragrant
miles of hay;
And the land shall throb with pleasant toil for all
the live-long day. ■
Women and men by the million ! The haze of
Cape Keerweer,
The Gulf-lands backward to the sea whence the
bastard bread-fruits sheer.
The mill-race of the Barrier Reef, the gleam of
the Otway’s lamp
Shall look bn a teeming country-side now nought
but a lonely camp ;
Shall see the land a limitless stead—dotted and
striped with farms—
For out to the white men of all the world Aus-
tralia holds her arms.
In the silent central provinces where lone moons
wax and wane,
And none are there to steer to wealth the argosies
of rain,
There shall the flocks of millions, the herds of the
thousands be,
And the Country yield its plenty from the Straits
to the Northern Sea.
The Old World gate of Fremantle for the Old
World White is meant!
From Sharks Bay, sweating in its haze, to the
Wayd of the Occident;
To the ultimate of the Leeuwin—the men of the
Old World lands
Shall home by tlie thousand and thousand to eat
at Australia’s hands.
Wilson’s and Otway’s and Raoul’s and Schank’s'
—their sea-lights all a-blink
To gather the men from over sea and hold them
link by link ;
.Melbourne and Sydney and Brisbane hammer by
marge and marge,
Ooal and iron and furnaces—captains of bale and
barge.
A system’s buried forests from Powlett to Nobby’s
herd,
Bringing the ships from all the seas ; smelting the
iron, and lead !
And the ocean-wealth of the Barrier Reef (that once
was a mountainls spine—
Bearing its coral up to the air with its granite
pride in brine)
Shall have its twenty thousand of fishermen,
sailors all.
To stand to the guns in time of stress lest the best
of lands should fall.
And Cairns shall know no alien, but that garden,
great, divine !
Shall give to the white its beauty and wealth of
frangipanni and pine.
Ere the playtime of Creation, ere ever was order
or law—
Ere the concrescent Crystal had conquered its
primal flaw—
Ere Europe was cut into kingdoms, and trampled
in battle-wrath—
Our land was broken from Old World lands and
made its exclusive path.
Hidden from all the stir of war, held for us in the
South,
Safe in its splendid loneliness, through ages of
flood and drouth ;
While the North men sabred and,slaughtered—
sword, cross-bow, pike and gun—
Our white land stayed safe walled with seas, and
free our oceans spun.
When the Old World’s order failed it our cymars
wide were flung,
And showed it to the bravest men from lands of
variant tongue.
The cream of the earth sailed to it, the world's
adventurers,
Charted the reefs for our sons-to-be; plumbed the
depths for our heirs.
Ward are you of the oceans—Pacific and Indian
both
Lord of all white men in the South but ye be free
from sloth ;
Breed out, breed out! and welcome in the white
strengths as they come—
To the alien ever exclusive; to the alien ever
dumb.
Truth, Courage and High Endeavor ! and history
shall sound the name—
Sound as with trumpets the golden pomp of thy
most splendid fame,,
Work! —not the spot vicarious; no woman*
Symbol be;
Work ! and the strength of a strong man ! for
male of a male are ye !
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Apparently they get so used to feeling
dead in Tasmania that when they do die they go
on working just the same. Hence this wire from
Launceston in Melbourne Agk (23/ll’o9/: —
This morning at five o’clock Jonathan Shore, aged 62,
employed by the corporation, fell dead in the street prior
to commencing work.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our l\ew Illustrated Cine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 Georgre Street,
near G.P.O;, Sydney.
and at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Franz Josef Lag'er Beer.
SPARKLING, REFRESHING, EXHILARATING AND PURE.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality and character, being sharp, clean, and of light gravity.
Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney’s Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
&
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
country some of the prices were amazing. When
poor old Brown can’t pay the grocery, the
grocery and its missus promote a benevolent
society, get a few subscriptions and a Government
grant, and then the society pays Brown’s grocery
bill, with 20 per cent, added in the sacred cause of
charity. “It might be necessary to consider the
advisability of having tenders invited from a cen-
tral agency for all the institutions,” the Minister
told the inspector, and that’s as far as it’s likely
to get; for the grocer will howl that he won’t
subscribe another penny if the money is “sent out
of the district,” and the committee will shriek it
in the ear of the local M.P., and the local M.P.
will pass it on to the Minister with a hint that he
will be losing a good supporter if he isn’t careful.
-*•
At the moment of writing G. H. Reid is under-
stood to be busy yes-noing with himself on the
subject of the High Commissionership ; and the
indications are that, after he has been on the rail
long enough to satisfy the conventions, he will say
yes, and thereby do another atrociously bad turn
to Australia. That he should have been offered
the high office at all is so little short of a scandal
that the margin isn’t worth noticing. Something,
however, had to be done with G. Reid.
The Fusion knew he wouldn’t stay where
he was, and it knew also that any
movement he might make wouldn’t be for
the Fusion’s comfort. So Cook, the accident who
has followed Reid as leader of the Freetrade and
Parish-pump party, has “ been authorised to
negotiate with Mr. Reid on the subject.” In
this way Cook may be saved, but Australia will
be sacrificed. It is hard to imagine a worse
choice for the office. G. H. Reid’s whole political
record has been one of muddle and failure. He has
neither business experience nor capacity. Socially,
nobody ever hinted that he was a success. More-
over, he does not, and he cannot, represent Aus-
tralia. He stands for a blown-out political faith
which he had to sink in order to get his one taste
of Federal office. And his prospects for the
future are worse. He represents a hopeless, utter
minority, and could only scramble to office by
hanging on, as he did before, to somebody else’s
coat-tails. Australia’s misfortune is that Joe
Cook is in exactly the same position—that is his
only hope, too. And seeing that no man’s
.coat-tails are likely to stand the strain
of both Cook and Reid, and that Cook
may want all the coat-tail that is available,
Reid has to be provided for otherwise. So Cook
hangs him round Australia’s neck ; and G. Reid
isn’t the right shape or weight to hang round
anybody’s neck with comfort to the wearer.
' ♦
Interviewed after the last session of the present
Commonwealth Parliament had closed. Affable
Alfred Deakin said he was “well satisfied”
with the work that had been done. It is easy and
inexoensive satisfaction. He and his fellow Fusion-
ists have been six months in office, and, beyond
the customary financial bills and a few measures
dealing with details of administration or effecting
slight amendments in existing Acts, the sum total
of six months’toil amounts to the Defence Act,
the Naval Loan Act, the High Commissioner Act,
the Federal Capital Act. and the Financial
A reement Act. Such others as the Coinage
Act and Patents Act can hardly be credited
to the Fused Ministry, as, though they
were made law this session. the best
work in connection with them was done by
former Ministries. The Defence Act, a half-and-
half, confused sort of thing, may satisfy Deakin,
but it comes a long way short of satisfying Aus-
tralia ; the Naval Loan Act marks the commence-
ment of the old shiftless borrowing policy ; while
the other measures ate in sum and substance the
mere expression of a policy of truckling to the State
Frighters, mainly of Sydney. As to the-measures
that were dropped, Deakin says nothing. More
important than all the others was the Northern
Territory Bill. It was only shelved in the Senate
by two votes, after having passed the Represent-
atives, yet there was no attempt at a re-com-
mittal ; there was no cracking of the whip as there
was over the Financial Agreement Bill. Unlike
the Federal Capital Bill, no cantankerous
State Insect demanded its passage; so it
was dropped. There was no attempt made to
rectify glaring anomalies in the tariff, and
the Interstate Commission Bill wasquietly allowed
to lapse so soon as the Employers’ Federation
declared against it. Also the Navigation and the
Land Tax Assessment Bills, introduced by pre-
vious Governments/were unobtrusively stuffed
into their temporary coffins. And Deakin is
satisfied ! Possibly his satisfaction arises from his
ridiculous offer of a Dreadnought. It was on this
meretricious business that he ousted the
Fisher Government, and it was this policy that
the Home Government rejected. But Deakin
is quite satisfied! The one measure that he
and his Ministers really fought for was the
one that is almost certain to be repudi-
ated by the electors—the measure which would, if
passed, leg-rope the Commonwealth, and make
Australia a mere milch-cow, to be used for the
sole profit and aggrandisement of the States.
And Deakin is satisfied ! So satisfied, in fact,
that, though there was still a fortnight left for
strenuous work, Deakin rushed into recess, lest
the weight of accumulating satisfaction should
crush him.
«
A shocking thing was unearthed by the Press on
December 3—a scandalous thing. The S. M.
Herald gave this editorial account of it
The State must assert its powers and refuse any longer
to be the sport of law-breakers and revolutionaries.
Every day shows the absurdity of the position. Even the
coaling of the Palermo is a revelation. It is permitted
by the strike congress presumably because so much
foreign coal to serve outgoing mail boats will hurt the
colliery proprietors, and because the scientific strike is
to be forwarded thereby. Reason is to govern the whole
programme. We come back, therefore, to the original
contention, that the strike congress must be dealt with
summarily.
“Reason is to govern the whole programme.”
The wretches ! No bombs, no dynamite, not even
a riot and a few brickbats ! What chance are the
scoundrels giving the poor papers? Haven’t
they got any consideration for Grey Hairs and
Whiskers? Reason—phaugh ! “Dealt with
summarily”—we should think so.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Catch of the Season.”
Criterion “The Girl Behind the Counter.”
Palace. I “ Married to the Wrong Man.”
( “East Lynne.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Town Hall Sylvia Blackston (22nd).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Aladdin.”
Theatre Royal “ The Merchant of Venice.”
King’s “Hamlet.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tail’s Pictures.
Wirth’s Olympia Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
♦
“ Zaza ” is a wonderfully clever play, but
it is more than doubtful if it should have been
written. Its brutal cynicism, its flagrant im-
morality, its false ethics are appalling and, to
many people, revolting. It is Roman in its whole-
hoggishness, and the introduction of a broken
heart into such an environment is, to
say the least, astounding. Zaza is a crea-
ture of the gutter, conceived in sin and
born in degradation, who under the alleged
refining influence of love becomes in nature the
purest of the pure ; and when the dream-structure
inspired by that love is shattered, nothing matters
to her but how she is regarded by the cynical sen-
sualist of whom she had chosen to make a demi-
god. Love is enough, according to the French
authors, to this woman, who in the nature of things
could scarcely be capable of real affection. Still, it
is an alluring subject, the materialist finding a soul,
the sensualist evolving affection, the human beast
of prey suddenly developing altruistic virtue.
And all that could be made of such a weird im-
possibility the authors have made. Six years ago
Miss Stewart had the physical and emotional
strength to make it real, and give it the stamp of
truth. To-day she has not ; and that was the
cruellest tragedy in the Theatre Royal during the
run of the piece.
* * *
Once a year, for the space of one issue,
The Bulletin hangs its spectacles on the weep-
ing willow tree, bursts into song and story, and
takes no inky heed of passing shows. The seven
days’ loaf was on when Sydney Palace wore
“ The Wedding Ring ” for the first time on Satur-
day, December 5 ; consequently this journal has
had to hold on to its handful of confetti until 11
days after the initial performance. “ The Ring”
is just the same old stock bellow under a different
name. It is as much like all the other bellows as
one elephant is like another elephant. Of course,
it starts off with a good supply of family
skeletons: —
(1) The Duchess of Brierly has been married before,
and her first husband is very much alive. So is the
Duke.
(2) Her grown-up daughter by the insufficiently-dead
husband is living under the care and in the household of
the Chief Villain (Peter Fletcher) as his niece. She
moans under the name of Mary Ashford—or Ashbarrel.
(3) The daughter doesn’t know who her real mother is.
(4) The Duke of Brierly is not aware of his Duchess’s
previous marriage; consequently, he does not know the
insufficiently-dead husband of Mary Ashtip.
(5) The gentle Duchess thinks her first husband (Mark
Allison) is dead.
(6) The Chief Villain’s son (George Fletcher) has be-
trayed a riotous young woman (Violet Foster), who wears
her hat over one eye,
(7) The. hero-curate (Gerald Armstrong) has secretly'
married the heroine (Mary Ashtray).
(8) Mark " Allison (the Duchess’s insufficiently-dead
husband) has lost track of his wife, the Duchess. He
doesn’t know that she is a Duchess.
(9) He is totally unaware of Mary Ashbin’s existence.
It is a goodly heap of skeleton to start with, and
the author Joses no time in malting the heap
rattle. Gerald Armstrong defiantly tells Fletcher
of his marriage to Mary, knowing that the Chief
Villain has been plotting
to marry her to his
villainous son George.
The enraged pair pre-
sently hand to faded
Violet (who has incon-
veniently turned up)
some vague love letters
from Gerald to Mary,
which have been inter-
cepted by Peter. (Appar-
ently Mary never missed
them.) Violet takes
them to the local church,
tells the vicar that his
curate has reduced her
to a ruin, and has the
unhappy young man biffed out of his job.
Accompanied by his faithful wife, Armstrong
goes to London, where family afflictions and the old
Freetrade Curse of unemployment reduce him to
despair and beggary. At last he appeals to Sinner
Peter for help, and the ancient fiend gives him £2O
on condition that he clears out and deserts his wife.
The workless and agonised curate writes out a
receipt on that condition and departs. Immedi-
ately he has gone, Peter’s son George steals in and
murders his father, while Mark Allison and Violet
—who only wanted to rob thesafe—look on horror-
stricken. From thence onward the play is the
same old riot of improbabilities until Virtue
triumphs at 11 p.m. and the unhappy and dis-
comforted George—who has been twice knocked
out by the low comedian—is handcuffed and given
to understand that the gallows is creaking
for him. Nellie FerguSson is fairly successful
as Mary Ashford ; Ethel Buckley is a
bright and chirpy maid ; Lilian Booth as the
Duchess is charming, but makes up at least 30
years too young; Nona Wynne makes Mary
Foster a cheerfully bad, but refined, young per-
son until repentance overtakes her in the last act.
Of the men folk, Kenneth Hunter, as Gerald
Armstrong, and A. W. Tyrer, as the high-minded
and military Duke, help the drama most. Wilton
Welch, as a busted lord, is most humorous when
he decorates his lady-love with the pawn tickets
for the family jewels—the articles themselves
being unavailable just then. Hilliard Vox makes
George Fletcher a terribly gaspy villain. Besides
the murder of Peter, the drama is enlivened by a
terrible railway accident and the presentation of
a V.C.
iff * * *
The Hugh Ward Comedy Co. opens at
Sydney Palace on Boxing Night in “ A Bachelor’s
Honeymoon.” The leading lady is the per-
enniaily-delightful Grace Palotta. Miss Rose
Musgroveand Miss Celia Ghiloni are members of
the combination ; and the male mimes, headed by
the agile and blithesome Hugh, are understood to
be all stars of immense candle-power.
** * m
“ Havana ” has been smoking gaily away
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) during the past two
weeks ; but it is due to become a butt on December
17. After it has been laid reverently on the
managerial ash-tray, “The Catch of the Season”
will be landed on the stageon Saturday, 18th, by the
returned Royal Comics, who will be reinforced for
the occasion by two English actresses —Lydia
Flopp and Florence Vie. The first-named lady is
a sister of Fan Dango ; and if she is anything like
Fan, The Bulletin will be glad to see her.
#* * *
On a recent evening, in Sydney Town
Hall, Lucille Benstead, the girl singer from Cen-
tral Australia, lifted up her splendid soprano and
roused a critical audience to enthusiasm about 14
times. In addition to possessing a full soprano of
exceptional purity, the lady from beyond Oodna-
datta is gifted with all the joyous confidence of
youth and a fine platform presence. Her num-
bers included some formidable items, but she
attacked them all with the skill of the experienced
artiste. Her fresh young voice showed no signs
of fatigue when, at the end of the long evening,
she concluded her debut in Sydney with “ Ritorna
Vincintor ” (Aida), and Hawley’s charming “In
a Garden,” given as an encore.
** * *
A revival of “Dr. Bill” transpired at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday night. This wild old
farce smote London in days when immigration
agencies were . unknown, and Dr. Arthur had not
bourgeoned into a ready-letter writer on Austra-
lian topics. The great British public may be
said to have acquired its first schooling in the
ways of the fauna of this continent from “Dr.
Bill.’’ The Kangaroo Dance gave it to them.
“ Dr. Bill ” ran for an incredible number of nights
after its first presentment; later it was revived
(Charles Hawtrey played then in the name part),
and again it careered like a mass of disordered
capital fleeing before Labor across the Obi Desert.
With every' revival more information anent Aus-
tralia accrued to the British public, and more
money to the promoters. The writer did not stay
long at “Dr. Bill” last week. It made him too
sad. Each jape, each well-remembered bit of
business induced suicidal breedings over gay,
irresponsible and now-dead days. This is not to
be taken as a reflection on the production. The
better done an old farce is the more depressing it
appears to those who have known it when it and
they were young. Stanley McKay is a brisk and
amusing Dr. W. Brown, Fred Stephenson plays
Thomas Firman satisfactorily, and Miss Guest,
Miss Olive Burke, Miss Sumner Locke, and Miss
Burton all do well.
** * *
The Stage Society played “Hedda Gabler”
at Sydney Criterion on Friday night. The even-
ing show was in the nature of an experiment, as,
hitherto, the society has given matinee perform-
ances. In one sense it was a failure. Whether
owing to the uncertain habits of Johnson’s trains
and trams of late, or to the fact that Sydney
theatre-goers are not to be lured forth at night by
anything less absorbing than a living-picture
entertainment or musical Comedy, there was a
thin house. Such treatment of Ibsen’s best act-
ing' play was drearily suggestive of the reason
why this city and environs habitually elect people
like W. Wilks and W. E. Johnson.
Miss Irby Marshall possesses physical
advantages which fit her to play Hedda. She
has the finely-drawn features and figure, the cold
eyes and the “ tone” that one looks for in General
Gabler’s daughter. It is easy and must hetempt-
ting to overplay the tragedy of the wife ill-mated,
the anguish of the neurotic, unbalanced “society”
woman who has tied herself to a man of
THE SACRIFICE OF JULIUS CAESAR, AT
SYDNEY CRITERION.
another class than hers, and finds the environ-
ment to which he brings her odious. Miss
Marshall put rant and cheap effect resolutely
behind her. Her Hedda was the most natural,
unstagey person conceivable. Leonard Willey,
who produced the play, represented Brack with
distinction and strength. Leslie Carey’s Eilert
Lovberg was a picturesque and imaginative
creation. Roland Conway undertook the diffi-
cult part of Tesman. He overdid the lump-
ishness of the student. By employing the
name or style of whatever character he
chanced to be addressing about half a dozen times
a minute, he achieved the effect of social awkward-
ness in sure enough fashion ; but it rendered his
Tesman scarcely credible as an intelligent human
being. It is to be hoped that the Stage Society
will present this fine drama again, and that it may
then attract a worthy audience.
iU Us
Sydney Tivoli is pursuing its three, two
and one, plus the booking fee of Is., with the same
band of stars that were prancing, somersaulting
and singing last week. Mrs. De Dio whirls grace-
fully in the van of the advertisement; closely
followed by sketch artists Graham and Dent and
the Trapnell aerobatic troupe. Bertha Stuart,
Fred Curran and Dolly Harmer are the other
chief supports; and some further assistance is
rendered by Fanny Powers and Fred Bluett. The
rest of the entertainment—including the solemn
first part —may be taken as read. Some night an
absent-minded person may rise up in the stalls
and propose a motion to that effect.
** * #
The craze for operatic concerts in Sydney
is acting as an unconscious agent for Williamson’s
opera scheme, which is to mature next year.
During this season Slapoffski did fine work in
May with “Lucia” and “Aida”; the Garcia
School is out with “Carmen,’’ on Thursday
night at the Town Hall ; and many concerts
specially include operatic numbers in the pro-
grammes. Last Friday, at the Y.M.C. A. Hall, Mr.
Vincenzo de Giorgio’s students gave excerpts
from “The Magic Flute,” “ Nozze de Figaro,”
“Traviata,” and the death of Miini from “La
Boheme.” Apart from the unintentional comic
MISS SYLVIA BLACKSTON, the Sydney
contralto, just back from five years' foreign
polishing.
Photo, by Martin Jacolette, South Kensington.
tone of the young singer whose melancholy “Send
for the Doctor” roused the audience to roars of
laughter, there was much pleasant, well-trained
singing. Mr. de Giorgio’s artistic piano-playing,
too, deserves more than this small quantity of ink
spent on its mention.
** * *
Miss Rose Pin hey, the Sydney girl who
was coming to the front in grand opera in foreign
parts under the name of Rosina Sydna, is feeling
just now that life is a blank, and the chocolate she
drinks is rue. After years of study, many
successful appearances and several note-
worthy engagements booked ahead, she has
had to quit professional singing. A true
daughter of the Sun—Austral brand—she
has never got acclimatised to the European
fog, and cold succeeded cold and influenza
followed influenza. Now a Juliette or a Mimi
with a real cold in the head and a stuffing of the
chest and watery eyes is unthinkable. So Miss
Sydna decides, anyhow. Hence, Miss Sydna is
hereby invited to come back to her native sun-
beams and sing to us occasionally; for here, of
course, her colds will cease from troubling and her
influenza will be left at rest near the Tiber or the
Thames.
** * *
Mr. Rex de Cairos Rego officially entered
the ranks of the resident musicians of Sydney by
giving a recital in the Y.M.C. A. Hall on Satur-
day. He had prepared an exacting programme,
and after a few initial nervous minutes, he went
through his work like a veteran. His voice has
beeh well trained, and he sines with much artistic
perception. For the classical concert hall he is
an acquisition. His chief song was “Hia-
watha’s Vision.” Mrs. Grace Miller Ward was
entirely satisfactory with her charming songs and
cultured method, and Mr. Laurence Godfrey
Smith played a Rhapsody of Liszt and three
Chopin preludes. His style is masterful and
soothing. Wherefore, Premier Wade might do
worse than engage Mr. Smith to play to the coal-
mine owners and strikers.
* * * -*
Among the sundries of the Christmas show
season is a free one that is year by year growing
more popular. This is “ Venice in Sydney.” On
Christmas Eve Mosman Bay gives itself up to
carnival. Every house on Cremorne and Mus-
grave Point is lit with Chinese lanterns,
and the waters of the bay are ablaze with
a moving crowd of illuminated craft. For
this coming carnival there is promised a real
water pageant, with a number of novel effects in
lighting. Thousands were attracted to the show
last year, and a collection taken up for the North
Sydney Hospital totalled £3O, though not one-
tenth of the spectators were reached by the
collectors. The N.S.W. Military Band will
play; there will be West’s pictures in the open
air ; a large choir will carol from the moored flag-
ship ; and there is to be an illuminated procession
of craft. Given a still night, the carnival will be
a revelation of the possibilities of water illumina-
tion in Sydney Harbor.
** * *
“ Othello,” at Melbourne Royal, is much
as it was before—that is to say, the performers
are as moderately powerful as they were before.
Herbert Grim wood is the same lago, rather
physically and psychologically wanting; and O.
Asche is the same barbaric Sambo, exciting nasty
thoughts on miscegenation. Miss Brayton, as
Desdemona, is sweet, graceful and elocutionally
satisfying. Gerald Souper, as Cassio, is in-
clined to be over-weighty, except, perhaps, in his
unsober period; while H. Tripp Edgar, in
the much smaller part of Roderigo, shows that he
is an artistic actor all the time. But all
of these people, good as they are, only heighten
one’s irreverence for W. Shakspeare’s idealised
Moor. Here, apparently, is a nigger who regards
Desdemona’s alleged infidelity as not so damaging
to his honor as to his self-conceit. Seemingly, in


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for
Subjects constantly arriving,
parts, and accessories stocked.
Jerdan’s, 203 George Street,
hire —new
Machines,
Write.
Sydney.
Messrs. Scrubb and Co., Ltd., have been
granted a special royal warrant of appointment as manu-
lacturers of their ammonia to H.M. the King of Spain, for
use in the royal household. The firm has also the honor
of holding a similar warrant from H.M. King Edward VII.*
Insure i
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 230 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE Manager
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
D.O.M.
BENEDICTINE
The Liqueur with 400 Years’ Reputation.
his view, it is much more disgraceful that a woman
should prefer a white man to a black than that
she should prefer a “lover” toahusband. .There-
fore, if lago had told him that Cassio, her pre-
sumed young man, was only a sort of “under-
study,” probably he would have kissed rather
than killed Desdemona.
“Hamlet” at Melbourne King’s would
seem like caviare at a fourpenny “food joint,”
yet it was served up at the Russell-street theatre
on the Saturday before, last. The production is
in no ways splendid, or entirely satisfactory ; for
it fails to convey a sense of either symmetry
or poetic illusion. For one thing, the com-
pany is wanting in dramatic cohesion. The
players are in the picture, but not of it
—in the play, but indifferent to it. Apart
from their deficiency, there is another—that °f
reasonable scenic representation. The Bulletin
is not inclined to object when a king’s castle is
only princely or even ducal ; but when it is asked
to believe that what is shown in Act IV., for
example, stands for a queen’s apartment, it
simply can’t do it. A chamber with three poor
bits of furniture, two or three rugs and an in-
sanity of a wall paper, is not the parlor of a royal
being, but the waiting room of a registry-office.
* * * *
To come to the acting is to come mainly
to Walter Bentley, whose Hamlet is the orthodox
egomaniac, reaching 1 the apogee of lunacy with
rolling eyes and gesticulations. It is more, force-
ful than subtle, possibly more passionate than
truthful, and may be regarded in toto as a highly
effective gallery appeal rather than a really artistic
interpretation. Still Walter Bentley acts well in
his vigorous way, even if his voice gives Hamlet
a rather old-fashioned, grandfatherly youth.
Charles Brown plays tastefully as Polonius, and
an occasional hint of humor in his lines touches
the audience. Andersonian audiences are not
yet quite en rapport with William Shalc-
speare, but they accept Polonius as a very
fair substitution for the absent Bert Bailey.
Rutland Beckett is moderately convincing as the
young Laertes ; but Wilton Power, as the King
of Denmark, delivers his lines like an auctioneer’s
clerk reciting a catalogue. Miss Fuigenie Duggan
takes the part of Ophelia with small success.
Her capricious elocution is certainly subdued in
the interests of Art, yet at times she barely
escapes falling over the cliff into the pit of bathos.
Her Ophelia suffers from mature age and imma-
ture consideration ; but, as the fault is Nature’s as
much as her own, this paper writes her a pardon.
Miss Helen Fergus is mild to middling as the
Queen of Denmark ; but the bulk of the others
have little conception of what is really required
of them, and some of them seem, to have been
drawn haphazard from a penny dip.
** * *
Bland Holt’s last appearance in Melbourne
the other night finished up in interesting style.
All the members of the co., including some stage
assistants industriously dragged out by Bland
himself, seized hands and Auld Lang Syned.
Then Bland, garbed as SuperbuS, spake a
whimsical farewell speech, probably'to laugh down
a persistently rising sob. He made some fond
but appropriate references to liis beloved public.'
and remarked that he and Mrs. Bland had only
come to say “An revoir, but not good-bye.”
After taking a holiday by “some cool waterhole,”
they might probably return to stage-graft once
again.
* #
The popular “Hook” company bade
Melbourne a last fond farewell at the Theatre
Royal on Friday night. It was quite an occasion
dc luxe; for the management, with utter disregard
for the price of cardboard, presented each lady in
the, audience with a souvenir photo. Moreover,
there was an air of extra revelry on the Stage, and
sundry comedians executed unlicensed capers all
the evening. Willie Cromwell, waving a basket
of foliage at Mrs. A.sche, who occupied a box,
desired the great lady to prance the Merry Widow
waltz with him; but she merely smiled archly,
while her own Oscar,fired stares of cold annihilation.
Edwin Brett piffled with remorseless ardor, and
Tom Payne, of the omnipotent legs, indiscreetly
powdered the sickly beauties of the “ Gibson six.”
At the close the curtain arose and fell many
times, and a procession of vegetables was formed
from the house to the stage. All of the leading
ladies and some of the misleading chorus re-
ceived the nursery stuff. while Messrs. Brett and
Cromwell were handed bottles, apparently of
liquid refreshment. Incidentally there were also
speeches—a soulful one from Miss Ruth Lincoln,
a gurgling one from Willie Cromwell, a serio-
comic one from E Iwin Brett, and a purely humor-
ous one from the nimble Payne.
* ■ * * *
At Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, “The Lady
Dandies” exhibited their hosiery and side-split-
ting garb for the last time on Saturday night.
This week the theatre is, closed, and marvels are
germinating behind its shutters. In other words,
preparations are being made for the production
next Saturday of .T. C. Williamson’s tremendous
panto, of “ Aladdin.” Many sensations—includ-
ing some new faces—will decorate it, and not the
least of them will be an extraordinary cave of
precious gems. It is understood that the gems
were brought from the Newcastle mines, and are
of the very rarest character.
** * *
An unusual theatrical event in Melbourne,
last week, was the production of Bernard Shaw’s
comedy. “You Never Can Tell,” by a body of
University amateurs; and the show deserved
more than half the tributes it received. The
play is not the brainiest- of Shaw’s so-called
“dramatic impostures ” and really represents the
dramatist more as a genial funmaker than as a
flinger of glittering ironies at the universe. Still,
even here he is vivacious and charmingly flippant,
and, as he possesses the talent of being stimu-
lating on any subject from bad eggs to bi-
metallism, he has contrived a” comedy that would
b§ entertaining even if it were badly acted, which
jt wasn’t. True, there is a suspicion of Sliawian
philosophy in the advanced pretensions of Gloria
Glandon ; but, seemingly, the author only intro-
duces that didactic prig to guy her frigid unro-
manticism. Moreover, one gets an impression of
violent reaction in the evolution of Gloria from a
sort of superwoman to a sentimentalist; but a
female, changing from the pursued to the pursuer,
almost as quickly as she might change her frock,
makes capital comedy all the time. Miss Hilda
Bull gave full value to Gloria’s loftiness in the
beginning, but hardly revealed the sense of ironic
absurdity in Gloria’s hunger for hugging in the
end. The unparalleled twins, Dolly and Philip
Clandon, were played with spirit by Miss Nellie
Bramleyarid Max Mdtzler respectively; Miss Helen
Kelsey was a.not over-imaginative Mrs. Clandon;
Cyril Lade did well as Valentine, the dentist;
and one or two others gave their little help to the
bright, racy dialogue.
*# * *
Analysing the stuff at Melbourne Opera
House, this paper finds the ingredients much the
same as they were a fortnight back. Hass.in, the
brunette gent with the “ pidgin” speech, is still
conjuring deftly, but un picturesquely; and the
undoubtedly skilful Krerrika Bros, seem more
agile at every time of re-inspection. Franco
Piper, better as a banjo soloist than as a banjo
juggler, is on the bill, and so are Brown and
Robinson, the pore but ’onest British workmen
with the fund of mawkish organ tunes. Also,
Tom Dawson has become an exotic Willie-boy
and a fearful ruffian of a fellow. What Tom
sings is mainly the epidemic gag of “You’re the
One ” ; though, to get its requisite atmosphere, one
portion of his song calls for a group of bagmen
and a smoking-room.
** * *
At the Melbourne Glaciarium, J. and N.
Tait are unwinding a film about Nero and the
burning of Rome.' The picture is strangely power-
ful. and presents some scenes of the conflagration
that look less like fakes than real things. Other
pictures are “ The Mummy,” a sort of treatise on
sorcery, the black art, Chung-Lirig-Sooism, and
so forth ; “ House Under Repairs,” showing the
amazing humor of an amazing mess; “Balloon
Making,” revealing the manufacture of .the enve-
lope, basket, valve, etc., of a balloon ; and
“ Cavalry at Ypress, Belgium.” which should be
interesting to all members of Australian mounted
regiments. Another picture is ‘‘The Country
Doctor,” but it is so furtively sentimental that
the bung drops out of the keg of emotion, and
one blubbers in silent sympathy.
CHANGE FOR AN HISTORIC PICTURE.
Unloading the Palermo, as it might have been, if
Fat had had only one drop of heroic blood.
The Servian Tragedy of 1903 is West’s
greatest claim to notice in Melbourne this week.
The events leading up to and including the
“accident” that happened to King Alexander
and his missusare depicted with enough realism,
to atone for a revival of the grisly trouble. More
ancient history is disentombed in “ A Message to
Napoleon,” which refers with more or less accuracy
to Nap’s sojourn in the Isle of Elba ; and in
lighter vein is the picture “Dynamite,” which is
the quintessence of labored comicality.
** * *
Spencer, the Sydney picture man, is to open
at Melbourne Olympia next Saturday night, arid
announces the fact with a poster display that is
keeping every local policeman awake." At his
show, Spencer will introduce his Chronomega-
phone, revealing the immortal voice of Harry
Lauder ; and he will provide an array of pictures
that, figuratively speaking, will set the Yarra in
flames.
** * #
Prior to flitting for “polish,” Harold
Elvins, a young Melbourne pianist, gave his fare-
well recital in the Masonic last Thursday evening.
He played half a dozen items or so from Liszt,
Chopin and Beethoven, and more than hinted at
his skill. Certainly his rendering of Beethoven’s
Sonata in D Minor was not thoroughly brilliant;
but he turned out Chopin’s difficult Ballade in A
flat major with a surprising amount of elegance.
Those who also entertained during the evening
were Herr Louis Hattenbach, a ’celloist who is
always worth hearing; and singers Misses Elva
Rogers and Ruby Gray.
** * *
The balancing seals are popular enough to
keep Adelaide Tivoli going, but they are only an
item in a strong programme. Guest and Newlyn
have left for London, but Blake and Granby are
still playing, Harold Parkes (whose career began
in Adelaide) is giving imitations, and Miss Atb-
more Grey has brought along the Salome Dance,;
which the Churchy City had heard a lot about,
but never seen. Herod and the Head are both
absent from this version, so there is more dance
than Salome about it. The Royal has shunted
oft' the railway smash of “ Man to Man,” and got
back to Australia with the Blue Ranges drama,
“The Bushwoman.” Tom Cannam, with Miss
Edith Sowden, is playing a playlet at the Empire.
But the most original entertainment in sight is
that given in various halls by the Point Macleay
natives, who sing hymns (they are said to be
hymns) in the Narinyeri language, and accompany
themselves on the banjo.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Meib.” : The parents of the retiring- Bland Holt, Mr.
and Mrs. Clarance Holt, were stars in Australia, with
“ Belphegor” and such pieces. Clarance had a great idea
of his Hamlet, and would put it on the boards whenever
he could get a show. Relinquishing starship, he figured
in the “Octoroon ” and other pieces in Jefferson’s Meib.
season. Afterwards there was the management of Clar-
ance Holt and William Hoskins at the Theatre Royal.
Clarance would say, “ How about ‘ Hamlet ’ for Saturday
night, Billy ?” Hoskins would say, “No, no, give ’em
your unrivalled D’Artagnan in the ‘ Three Musketeers,”’
and Clarance would heave a sigh. Later on he created
Flotsam the detective (not Hawkshaw) in the “New
Babylon,” in London ; then became a theatrical agent, and
thus greatly helped Bland’s early Australian management.
Bland was named after Janies Bland, a well-known Lon-
don comedian.
Allan Hamilton, who has been running a dramatic
show of his own, and Max Maxwell, who has been rescu-
ing beautiful ladies for Bland Holt for many years past,
have put their heads and their pockets together ; and
the Allan Hamilton-Max Maxwell Dramatic Co. takes the
roads in consequence, carrying 5£ tons of the late John
Brunton’s scenery and 14 acres of wardrobe. Besides
scenery and wardrobe it has arranged with Blandolt to
take over “ Woman and Wine,” “Lights o’ London,” and
other seasoned melodramas, and will start out to give
Vice a bad time at Bendigo on Boxing Night, working
thence to Brisbane, and back to Sydney for Easter. The
co. will lead off with Miss Lilian Myers and Jennie
Pollock ; and Willey, C. R. Stanford, Chas. Brown and
others will be on hand to give Maxwell their moral and
other support; and the tall hat of Geo. Buffer will hold
the surplus cash in the manager’s office.
“Meib.”: Apropos Bilanderson’s experiment with
Bentley. Hamlets who have hitherto appeared in this
city include Adams, Anderson, Barrett, Batten (ama-
teur), Bentley, Brooke, Bandmann, Miss Cleveland,
Creswick, Dampiei-, Defries, Dewhurst, Duggan (a
brother of Eugenie), Rose Evans, Fairclough, Heir, Hos-
kins, Howe, Ireland, Kean, King, Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis,
Maddocks, Miln, Montgomery, Louise Pomeroy, Stark,
Sullivan, C. Warner, H. N. Warner. Perhaps Mont-
gomery was best. Yet he may have been only a Mel-
bourne furore. Sydney asked, “ What went ye out for
to see ? ” London did not recognise the grandeur. There
are, or have been, Melbourne enthusiasts who give the
palm to Adams, the Yank. Sullivan’s was a particularly
good, workmanlike Hamlet, equally appreciated in Aus-
tralia, England and America. With his unparalleled
complacency he said to W. J. Wilson : “ I don’t turn a
hair in performing this arduous part.” Wilson’s re-
flection was: “Nevertheless the man who does turn a
hair will score one niche the highest.” I saw Bentley's
excellent Hamlet and Rob Roy long ago. Both were
highly esteemed in Glasgow and Edinburgh. His
Hamlet is Edwin Booth, with a dash of Sullivan. Booth
acted it in Sydney. Charles Kean was the shade of
a fine Hamlet. When young he might equal even
his illustrious father in this particular character, not one
of Edmund’s best. Doubtless Nesbitt acted Hamlet,
though his line was the heavier one of Richard 111., the
first Shaksperian part he acted in Melbourne. Nesbitt,
Brooke, and Edwin Forrest were strangely alike. Pro-
bably Shearcroft was a Melbourne Hamlet of nearly 60
years ago. Wilson Barrett’s was too even and musical,
with that peculiar suggestion of commonplaceness which
lurked in everything he did. Booth acted his English
Hamlet in Berlin with German supporters. Bandmann’s
had one redeeming feature, the German use of full-length
tapestry portraits in the Closet Scene between Hamlet
and his mother. Hamlet shakes his fist at the usurper’s
portrait, with —
A king of shreds and patches !
Lights down. Ghost bursts in from that portrait. Surely
this is better than tinkering with two little medallions.
“L.H.P.”: So my old cobbers, “The Corsican
Brothers,” are to appear once more in Sydney at Christ-
mas ; Knight the Superfluvius promising their resurrec-
tion at the Royal. Sydney’s last notable revival of the
play was Geo. Rignold’s, at Her Majesty’s in 1891, with
Geo. as the “ twicers,” Harry Jewett as the Chateau
Renand (a fine villain part), and Edith Blande (the wife
of theatrical ink-slinger Austin Brereton), as Emilie De
Lesparre ; Mabel Tracey, as Madame Dei Franehi;
A. E. Greenaway, as Baton De Giordano; W. J.
Hazlett and Henry Hoyte. Both Hoyte and Jewett
played the same roles in Signor Majeroni’s production
in 1887. The Italian mummer was great as “The
Brothers,” and so was Bahdmann. Charles Kean was the
first English actor to do it in London, in 1852. Like a lot
of other good dramas, it hailed from France, being first
produced at the Theatre Historiquev Paris (of which
“Three Musketeers” Dumas was manager), in August,
1850. Fetcher was the original of the Brothers, and
he afterwards played it in English in London. The
famous story was first related by Dumas the elder in one
of his books of travel. Translated into English in 1845, it
appeared as “The Sympathy of the Twin Born” in
Ainsworth’s Magazine, the periodical published by the
man whose yarn of “ The Tower of London ” makes your
blood creep. Dumas professed that while travelling in
Corsica he had been entertained by the Comtesse Dei
Franehi at her chateau, and that he met her twin sons,
Louis and Fabien. From them he learnt of the
mysterious sympathy existing between them, of
the love of Louis for tfie beautiful Emilia, and
Of the villainy of M. De Chateau Renand. He also
averred that he was present at the two duels of the
Corsican Bros, with the Frenchman—the duels, by the
way, being fought at Vincennes, with pistols, not at
Fontainbleau, with swords, as in the play—and he re-
lated that Louis was warned of threatening; danger by the
spectre of his dead father. This story, considerably
altered and expanded, was staged at Dumas’ theatre.
The success of the “supernatural and legendary ” drama
in Paris was immense. It was soon seized upon
by Kean, who got Dion Boucicault, the elder, to
arrange it for the English stage. It is this
version of Boucy’s that Knight will stage here.
The famous Ghost melody was by one Stopel, and this
strange music and the mysterious, gliding progress of the
murdered brother across the stage enthralled everyone.
Irving achieved one of his greatest successes in the pro-
duction. Bill Terriss was the villain, A. VV. Pinero (the
dramatist) played Meynard, and Emily Fowler (well
known in Australia) was the heroine.
“Dux”: As a general rule, vaudeville is only as
naughty as one expects it to be. T’other night I sat
behind three stout females at a show when the serio
came out and sang somelhing like this :
“She got dilator-ee
Mixing with the militar-ee.”
The stout parties immediately sat erect and snorted in-
dignation. One stated in a loud voice that it was
“shocking.” “ Perfectly indecent,” chorused the
others; and with ruffled feathers they bounced out. I
had a good view of the show after that.
“Motley” (whose pen seems to be suffering from
asthma or shortness of breath): Circus people I have
known : J. A. Rowe. Made a pile in San Francisco from
1549 to ISSI. Brought all his troupe and horses to Mel-
bourne. Did immensely. Returned to San Francisco.
Back again in Melbourne 1556. Opened Rowe’s American
Hippodrome, which did not succeed. Returned again to
America. He was in Australia for the third time many
years afterwards as a humble agent with a big circus
troupe. His chief performers the first time, say in 1854,
were G. B. W. Lewis and Lilliputian Tom (Risley act),
Ned Yeamans (clown), Mrs. Yeamans, Young' Raphael,
J. L. Smith and Tom Nunn, who did better than any-
body with his Hnmmums Hotel, now the Austral, in
Bourke-street, near King’s Theatre. Is J. H. Nunn any
relation of Tom? The most curious circiis man ever I
knew' was Omar Kingsley. He first burst upon Australia
disguised as Ella Zoyard, the dashing lady equestri-
enne. He brought a wife and two children. Afterwards
he was a gentleman rider and master of the stud with
Wilson. Omar was a beautiful horseman, of the
Haute Ecole, same as Ohiarini and the Wirths.
Victoria Cooke, equestrienne, wife of Schliemann,
or some such name, a German rider of the
school just mentioned, caused extraordinary sensation
in Calcutta. She was a pretty little blonde, afterwards
familiar to circus-goers in Sydney and Melbourne. The
Calcutta business was in Viceroy Lytton’s time, shortly
after King Edward, as Prince of Wales, had visited India
in Viceroy Northbrook’s time. Lytton held the mighty
Delhi Durbar, where George Titheradge, as herald, pro-
claimed Queen Victoria as Empress of India. Medals were
given to all the Indian princes. Lytton had a lot of
medals over. A brilliant idea seized him. Victoria
Cooke was performing with a big circus on the Maidan, at
Calcutta. Lytton had one of the medals inscribed : “To
Victoria, Empress of the Arena,” and he, himself, pre-
sented it to Miss Cooke in the circus ring before an im-
mense, brilliant and delighted audience—mostly nig., of
course. My word ! There was a row among the Indian
princes! Yates published a bitterly sarcastic article in
the London World. I expect Miss Cooke was related to
James Cooke, the clown, and to the brothers Cooke, now
of Wirths’ show.
“ Luddite ” : A chat with Susie Vaughan and Alma
wraps me in the atmosphere of London. Gf course the
two ladies represent two generations. When Susie is in
Australia she sighs for London, and when there she sighs
for Australia. She is the most out-and-out Londoner I
have met on this side. What peerless pearls were the three
Vaughan sisters, with sweet Kate as the gem ! The three
sisters Levey were clever, but they were not Vaughans.
Kate was the inventor of true skirt dancing, followed by
Sylvia Grey, Lettie Lind and Alice Lethbridge.
“ Harrison O.” : “ Vulcan ” has changed his ground in
connection with the Beerbohm Tree controversy. He
started off by objecting to the rumored importatiow of
Sir ’Erbert on the ground that he was at “ the fag-end of
his days.” To this absurd-statement concerning a mime
of sfi years of age I replied. Now (“Poverty Point,”
2/12/’O9) “ Vulcan ” alleges that he objects to Tree because
he was only a “middling” mummer when in his prime.
As to how he compares with the actors of the ancient
past, neither I nor anyone else is in a position to say ;
but, judged by modern standards, Tree is the best mime
the Cold Country at present possesses. Upon this point
the critics appear to be agreed. We have, most of us,
been delighted with Oscar Asche ; but unless the ’Ome
critics are liars or fools or both, Tree is on a higher level
than Asche. All things considered, I beg of “Vulcan ”to
retain possession of tbe defunct animal with which I pre-
sented him a couple of weeks ago.
Translated from La Patrie, of Paris, to show how Aus-
tralian Bert Levy (his pictures still reach The Bulletin
now and then) is doing in France “ Parisians are laugh-
ing with Bert Levy, the inimitable artist and entertainer,
who is delighting large audiences at the Folies Berg&res.
Here is a nian who is showing us that it is possible to hold
an audience spell-bound with the best and cleanest wit.
A man of striking and compelling personality is Bert
Levy, with a Heaven-sent gift of humor, which he uses
at the right moment. A wonderfully modelled head of
Fallihres, a startling picture of Clemenceau, and a
‘memory’ of Pasteur brought round upon round of
applause, till the artist responded with the head of »
young girl, which he took through the seven ages of
womanhood to old age. Softly whistling ‘ Home, Sweet
Home,’ he put a pair of specs on the old lady’s face, put
knitting in her hand—then rose from his.deskand quietly'
retired, leaving the audience wishing for more. Bert
Levy' is an artist to the tips of his fingers.”
Margaret Anglin’s manager, Louis Nethersole, sends
from N’York word of the lad.v’s stage intentions. “I’ve
been crying for a living nine years,” she says, “ and now
I want to make them laugh. If an actress has any con-
science at all she feels just a bit guilty'when she looks out
front and sees an audience which looks as though it had
beep caught in a shower. I toured Australia and several
other countries and left a damp trail behind me. Now I
want to get a comedy’ r6le and shed a little sunshine. I
think I’ve earned m v rainbow.” So she’s going to finish
her present Helena Ritchie part and then sell out her old
business to the Water Department while Frohman looks
her up a shower-proof comedy.
“Myrtle”: Thk Bulletin (18/11/’O9) telD of Melba's
first appearance in London. This is the story of th ■
first appearance she didn’t make in Bananaland . SI e
wasn’t Melba then, but plain Nellie Mitchell. At Mackey
a concert was to be held, and Miss Mitchell was to sing.
So were others —many' others ; in fact, too many' others.
Somebody’s name had to depart from the programme.
So the.v considered who could best be spared, and Nellie
Mitchell was rubbed out. Some people in Mackay don’t
like to be reminded of this nowadays.
SKATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Roller skating- has become extremely popular in Great
tllis "'inter. It is estimated that a total sum of
41,000,000 has been expended upon rinks and other build-
ings The craze is proving- a blessing to a number of the
workless, some 17,000 persons now being employed as
clerks, attendants, etc.— Cable Item.
Skates!
Roller skates!
All the Kitties, Maudes and Kates,
In a deadly combination, in a captivating whirl.
Are displaying ankles slender,
While bestowing glances tender
On the members of the gender
That pursues the fleeting girl.
Skates!
Countless skates!
In the cold the pauper waits
For a chance to geji a billet in the rink with bunting gay;
While he’s standing out there gazing
On the hall with lanterns blazing,
He is praying the amazing
Roller craze has come to stay.
Skates !
Roller skates !
Kind indeed have been the Fates
To the unemployed of Hingland ; for the winter’s cold
and bleak.
To the pauper, wan and weary.
Life is now not quite so dreary ;
Things, in fact, seem rather cheery
On, say, six-and-eight a week !
Skates !
Many skates !
Tons and torn of Freetrade skates
They are selling night and morning. (So, at least, the
cable states.)
Freetrade England—mighty nation !
Is consumed with great elation ;
She will slither to salvation
On a pair of roller skates !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
WHY HE ASKED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ D’ye want an actor? ” asked the pro—
A somewhat soiled and needy ’nn—
Of the well-dressed boss of the big- new show,
Who looked askance at the seedy ’un.
“ No, sir, I don't! ” was the curt reply ;
But th > broken-down tragedian,
No wise abashed, just winked an eye—
A somewhat bleared and beady 'nn—
And he spoke again : “ Sir—are you sure 1 ”
The pause was quite a Macready ’un,
And a well-dressed boss can ne'er endure
To be “ guyed ” by a low comedian !
“I ask,” the mummer went on to say,
Preparing for flight—a speedy ’un—
“ 'Cos I happened last night to see your play !
“ That’s all—so long ! ” said the seedy ’un.
N S.W.
EARDLEY TURNER.


k
GLOVES
for
Christmas
Presents.
Every woman needs them, and what could he
nicer? We pay the postage to any address. Ask for
latest Glove list. Here are three popular lines :
3 Button Fine Kid Cloves, Stitched Backs, in
Beavers, Pastelles. Browns. Whites —3 pairs in pretty
glove box—Post Free for 8/9.
3 Button French Kid Cloves, Self or Black points,
in White, Bai'stelles, Sky, Rose, Helio. and Browns —
3 pairs in dainty glove box—Post Free for 10/6.
3 Button French Suede Cloves, Self or Black
Pastelles, Beavers and Browns—3 pairs in
handsome glove box—Post Free for 11/9.
Get your order away now.
AXTENS & CO.
(La Maison
Parisienne),
21-33 THi STRAND, SYDNEY,
Rexona Cured Ringworms.
‘‘My little girl suffered from ringworms for over
two months,” writes Mrs. C. L. Gilder, of 18
Addison Road. Marrickvilie, N.S.W. "I used
Rexona on them, and they were cured in a few
days.’’ Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. CCCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Sterling Silver
Hall-Marked
Mirror, 13/6.
Buy SERVICEABLE Presents
FOR LITTLE MONEY you can buy a really serviceable
Christmas Gift. Just look at these few. Don't
they suggest other things which would be suitable
for the occasion ? We have hundreds of useful and
beautifully-finished articles to select from.
Best K.P. Teapot, 15/-
Oiliers, 20/-, 25/- and
30/-, either Afternoon
or Full Size.
Comb in Oase, 15/-
Others, 20/-, 25/-
Catalogues Post Free.
m
Sterling Silver Toilet Set, 3 pieces
in case, 8/6 and 10/6.
HollingdaU $ Kessell,
Watchmakers, Jewellers and Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Embossed Single Inkstand,
best English Silver-plated,
highly - finished Cut - Glass
Inkwell, 15/-. Other
designs, 30/- and 4C/-
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
In N. S. Wales it was no use telling the
yarn that the slack coal, for which the miners are
paid the twentieth part of a penny per ton. is of no
marketable value ; but Fat tried it on in Victoria.
Unfortunately, Labor-member Solly remembered
that the Wangaratta gas works, which are owned
mainly bv Swinburne, M.L.A., use nothing but
slack coal obtained from N.S.W. and Gippshtnd.
Possibly Swinburne gets his slack coal for nothing,
and possibly that is why he charges 10s. per 1000
feet for the gas he squeezes out of it. But this
paper has its doubts.
A few days ago there was an excited meet-
ing of farmers at Willaura, a big Victorian wheat-
growing centre, to consider the action of the Rural
Workers’Union in fixing rates of pay and hours
of labor. No worker in Australia needs an im-
provement in his lot worse than the rural worker.
His hours are long, his pay is short, and his food
and lodging are usually worse than awful. So the
Rural Workers’ Union was not formed before it
was wanted. It fixed a very moderate scale of
wages and it laid down eight hours as a day’s
work, with a sort of semi-half holiday on Satur-
days, starting at four o clock. The moderation
was, however, wasted on the Willaura Farmers’
Union, which nearly exploded with anger and
disgust. Having cursed the other union bitterly,
it drew up a scale of wages of its own, running
from 355. per week down to £1 ; and, as it didn’t
say a word about hours, it no doubt reckoned that
the old rule of jackass to jackass was too sacred
to be trifled with. Still, about 47 other farmers’
unions have already been started in Victoria;
and as there is going to be a shortage Of men at
harvest-time this year, the new one has Just about
the same dismal prospects as its 47 dead prede-
cessors.
. * * * ,
Said Archbishop Wright in his inaugural
address to the Anglican Synod last week -
I am most anxious to discover what value Churchmen
in Sydney really set upon these opportunities, which so
far 1 only know by hearsay. The value set can probably
be best gauged by a subscription-list.
This proposal to gauge values set upon different
opportunities by a subscription-list is very reason-
able; so The Bulletin herewith adopts it, and
heads the list of contributions in the following
cases :
Opportunity No. 1. —The Wade Government, as a con-
ciliator in industrial disturbances, one penny.
Opportunity No. 2.—The coal bosses, as reasonable
employers and square dealers with the public, one red
cent.
Opportunity No. 3.—Sydney Daily Tklkgraph, as a dis-
tributor of truthful strike nev.s, £1 (less 19s. llfd.
discount).
Opportunity No. 4.—Yassberra, as the Federal capital,
Oil.
Opportunity No. s.—The Federal Labor men who voted
against Representative Coon’s proposal to submit the
capital site question to a referendum, 30 pieces of silver.
Opportunity No. 6.—The N,S.W. Labor party, in its
relation to the financial agreement, one vote (informal).
Opportunity No. 7. —Freetrade, the Stinking Fish idea,
State Frights, A. Sosh, the Yellow Pup, each one gallows.
Hay (N.S.W.) has struck trouble. A little
t ine back a poll was taken to see if the stores and
shops should have a half-holiday on Saturday or
on Wednesday. The shopkeepers and assistants
chose Saturday. But Haybag and Billjim in the
surrounding districts have been for years coming
into town on Saturday, and they seem quite un-
able to get into the custom of coming on Wednes-
day. So Hay resolved to change its half-holiday
to Wednesday. Now it finds that, when once the
half-holiday is decided on, it can’t be shifted for
two years, and there doesn’t seem to be law
enough in N.S.W. to get round this difficulty.
And the surrounding people still refuse to recog-
nise Wednesday. They send in for necessaries,
of course ; but the trade in unnecessaries is dead.
The old Saturday arrangement meant an after-
noon and evening spent among the wild dissipa-
tions of Hay, a peaceful loafing-home over the
plains at any old hour, a long sleep on Sunday
morning, and a long, placid recovery on Sunday
afternoon. And if these things are off, then Bill :
jim has ho use for Hay, which is now a dark,
shut-up town on the once-joyous Saturday.
THE PRIVATE PLAGUES OF PHARAOH.
MRS. PHARAOH (after having thrown bracelet
and picture): "Detained at the club, were
you? I'll club you! And perhaps you will
be good enough to explain the presence of
that brazen hussy's vile picture and bracelet
in the pockets of the garments you wore to
the club last night. Monster, I go straight
home to mother at the rising of the sun.”
“G.L.”: Archbishop Wright’s former
flock has been creating a certain amount of
amusement to those in the know at ’ome by its
earnest prayers for its beloved pastor’s safety
in the land of cannibals and wild cats. If he of
tile leg-guards shared the same opinion, I wonder
what his feelings were like on striking Melbourne
and Sydney ! The newly-imported man’s lady,
from all accounts, was so surprised that a suitable
school could be found, quite easily, for the chil-
dren. Perhaps the family thought it would be
forced to select a tutor from the chain gang;
perhaps it came to the decision that it didn't
matter much since the odds were 7 to 1 that a
prowling blackfellow in King-street would kill
the poor infants with a boomerang inside a week.
What a relief it will be when the Flock that was
Left Behind learns that the chain gang consists
entirely of gentlemen of standing, and that a
Boomerang is not a weapon, but a friend of the
Premier’s!
THE SCIENTIFIC TEST.
The N.S.W. Hoard of Health complains that there are many milch cows around Sydney suffering from
tuberculosis. Owners, may, however, refuse to allow their cows to be subjected to the tuberculin test; so the
Hoard (ride official report) "is obliged to confine its operations to the test of running the beasts about in order
to ascertain the effect upon their breathing.”
This is not a cowboy. This is a N.S.W. Health Inspector determining whether a cow has
tuberculosis. ( The test is admittedly imperfect.)
Some Victorian fruitgrowers are beginning
to discover that Protection is going to put a few
extra coins into their workpeople’s pockets as well
as into their own. At Ardmona, in the Goulburn
Valley, is a compact settlement of growers who
have the benefit of a fairly high tariff on dried,
preserved and pulped fruits, and who enjoy even
more liberal State aid in the shape of costly irri-
gation works, mostly paid for by the general public.
These growers, almost without exception, belong
to the Goulburn Fruitgrowers’ Association, and
last season they fixed the pay for pickers at
30s. per week of 58 hours. Since then, however,
, the Ardmona Fruit-Pickers’ Union has arrived,
and this season the members of the latter body
remarked that 3Gs. per week of 52 hours was a
fair thing. At present about 200 pickers are
camped alongside the Goulburn, waiting; while
the growers are weeping dolefully about "the
Socialistic trend of legislation.” That is to say
all but one big grower, who is paying his pickers
6s. per day of eight hours —which is better even
than the Union asks.
* » • •
The inquiry into the loss of the Wellington
(M.L.) steamer Duco, 129 tons, which left Wel-
lington recently' for the Chathams and was never
again heard of, is more instructive than satisfying.
Evidence was given by various officials that the
vessel ought not to have carried deck cargo.
Lloyds’ surveyor said had he known what the ship
was taking on deck he would have demanded a
survey. The Surveyor of Ships said had he known
the circumstances he would not have let the boat
sail. All the officials concerned seem to have been
worried about the whole business, but not quite
sufficiently worried to stop the dreadful undertak-
ing. The Court found that the Duco had 10 tons
of coal on deck which it should not have had ; that
it carried on deck a 400-gallon tank that ought
not to have been there, as well as a quantity of
timber; that this deck cargo was not lashed;
that the Duco probably foundered on the night of
September 7 (the sailing date); and that the ship
was unseaworthy. In these circumstances the
Court ordered the owners to pay’ the costs of the
inquiry, amounting to £l4 55., or 19s. per head for
each of the 15 lives lost ! The owners apparently
feel that this punishment is too harsh, and at time
of writing they talk of applying for a re-hearing
before the Supreme Court. So far, the officials, who
did not know what they are, presumably, paid for
knowing, have not been even fined 3d. It seems a
matter for regret, in more wavs than one, that the
crew were all drowned. The Law could have
made a fine example of them, as well as a warning
to others who persist in overloading their pro-
prietors’ vessels and sneaking ,off to perish just
when the officials are otherwise engaged.
“Duncan McK.” : John Madden, deplor-
ing the sexual precocity of Australians, draws
attention to the number of lunatics between the
ages of 15 and 30 in this country, and evidently
wants to establish a connection between insanity
and indulgence. It sounds plausible, likesomanv
other things John Madden says. But what about
John Madden's own Ireland? Its women are
probably the most chaste of all women. The pro-
portion of .babies that arrive without the priest’s
blessing is the smallest in the world. And yet
the proportion of insane in Ireland is almost the
greatest in the world. (According to Knibbs, the
proportion of illegitimate to total births in Ireland
is only 2'B per cent.; in Australia it : s 6’2 percent.
Per 100.000 people the insane in asylums in Aus-
tralia were 354; and. accordirig" to “ Maxell's
Annual,” in Ireland 510.) If unchastity produces
insanity in Australia, does chastity produce it in
Ireland ? Or is John Madden merely blather -
skiting in a st nking-fish way ?
The “old boys” of Sydney Grammar
School had their annual dinner the other evening,
and made it a special event to celebrate the fact
that veteran headmaster Weigall had been mfi.de
a C.M.G. After the butter had been unduly
handed round, the guest modestly remarked that
he hoped there was some truth in what the pre-
vious speakers had said. This shows the refining
influence of education. Under similar circum-
stances the ordinary Billjitn person would have
remarked, “ Leggo me leg.”
General Booth was up in the N.S.W, In-
dustrial Court the other day, and was fined for
sweating. He had worked a man all the way
round the clock for a few shillings a week, and
pleaded that it was all done out of sweet charity ;
out even a very sympathetic Judge couldn’t
swallow the yarn whole seeing that the man who
was employed for sweet eharity’ssake grafted hard
in a hash-house which competed frith hash-houses
whose owners would be scoffed at if they pleaded
that they sweated peoole for the people’s own
benefit. Of course, the Ikenstein-nosed person
who bosses the Salv’army didn’t put in an appear-
ance at the court; and a doubt was raised
whether he was the right person to sue. But the
doubt was promptly suppressed. Boss Booth
owns the whole ttalv’arrny rig-out. Even when,
as sometimes happens, Booth turns a branch of
his huge money-grubbing concern over to a limi-
ted co. he. only passes over just enough shares to
satisfy the law. When he registered a bank—the
Reliance Bank—he held 39,1)93 shares out of
40,000 ; and it was just the same when he formed
the Salvation Army Assurance Society', Ltd.
TOO ROUGH.
BERTIE : “ But you said I was a rough diamond. ”
SHE: “ Yes, and that's why I cut you.”
The old chicken-stealing contagion is still
at work. A prisoner at the Criminal Session in
Adelaide, the other day, pleaded guilty to break-
ing-and-entering, whereupon his counsel said
sadly that he had started life as a good boy—
“but he then went to the war with the sth Con-
tingent, and that appeared to have been the be-
ginning of his downfall.” The Judge seemed to
think that it would account for anything, and re-
leased the victim of evil assoc.ations on two
sureties of £5O each.
A METHODISTIC CURSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the course of an address at the Methodist Church
the Rev. S. J. Hoban, of Ballarat, said there was no city
in the world in which there was more evil and villainy
thau’in Melbourne. . . He had witnessed practices that
were indescribable. . . . He could tell his audien e that
after his experience there could not be anything on earth
that so nearly approached Hell as the city life in the
slums of Melbourne.
Sins indescribable
The Ultra-Righteous smell.
Melbourne is Little Hell.
All monstrous growths are found
On this unhallowed ground.
Iniquities abound
Beyond comparison ;
The pubs of Little Lon
Shame Tyre and Babylon.
Sodom, Gomorrah—this
Yawning and black abyss
Cleaves the metropolis.
At every alley’s turn
Sin glares. The Pious yearn
To watch their brothers burn.
And it is right and fit
The Righteous should commit
Such sinners to the Pit.
Wherever men exist
They mark a long Black List.
O righteous Methodist!
You're not like us, ’Lis true;
Yet it consoles us, too,
We are not quite like you.
For ever in the slums,
■Where life bacehancic hums,
Some honest feeling comes.
At least these folk are free
From smug hypocrisy.
Their souls have liberty.
They hate. They know no trick
Of subtle rhetoric.
They drop a sudd-n brick.
They love. In passion's bliss
There is no artifice—
No transcendental kiss.
The lost inhabitant
Exudes no elegant
SnutlU or pious cant.
He drones no tuneless hymn
To pain the Seraphim ;
Nor weeps in whiskers trim.
He riots and bla phemes,
Hut drivels not, nor schemes,
lie is but what he seems.
The Jolly Beggars’ turns,
In whisky-splashed sojourns,
Rejoiced the soul of Burns.
And tender Paul Verlaine
Made many a plaintive strain
For outcasts of the lane.
Villon sang joyously.
St. Francis’ charity
Embraced humanity.
But little holy men.
With acrid longue and pen,
Find sin in every den.
Bat-eyed, they see no higher
Than polished pews require—
No roses in the mire.
The Gates of Love are slammed ;
With mud their skulls are crammed,
And all the world is damned.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


Ihe I®£ie Hand
Xmas Number.
' f : ' • . . ■ s •' •
p
NOTICE TO AGENTS.
THE LONE HAND for January
will be the Christmas Number
of the Magazine, and will be
published on DECEMBER 23rd.
Agents requiring extra copies will
need to notify the office at once, as
only a limited issue of the Christmas
Number will be available.
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
1
WHERE there’s a'way there
should he a will! The
way to clean hoots most
effectively and economicalv is
!^. U .^ CHERRY blossom
LISH. Have you the will ?
Give it one trial, at all events,
and judge its exceptional merit
by that. Most dealers sell black
and tan CHERRY BLOSSOM
in 3d. and 6d. tins. Write us
if you cannot get supplied.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
PEAPES’ EXCLUSIVE SHIRT STYLE.
Peapes’ New 'Ti£
Cambric Shirt, 110
3 for One Guinea.
Posted 6d. each extra.
THIS SUMMER SHIRT is a special design in cool Cambric
material, and reserved for our house by arrangement with
the makers. It lias the appearance of a pleated front
shirt, and is made with starched cuffs and neckband for linen
collars.
The fabrics used are particularly handsome—mostly hairline
stripes in Blue, Green and Heliotrope colorings.
This shirt is a style distinctive from its predecessors, and as a
Summer Shirt will satisfy the most critical dresser.
CATALOGUE OF MEN’S WEAR
SENT ON REQUEST.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Adelaide mayoral election this year
was the most exciting- for a generation—since
E. T. Smith ahd the late John Colton had their
historic fight. The ratepayers have the electing,
but of recent years the City Council has agreed
which of its members should go in unopposed. This
time it was the turn of John Baker, young lawyer,
ex-tennis champion, member of the Tramway
Trust and son of the ex-President of the Federal
Senate; but Lewis Cohen, holder of the office five
times in the past, butted in in a sporting way to
break up what he called the council’s “ happy
family.’ Then Ponder, M.P., cut in to take
advantage of the split capitalistic vote. Cohen’s
personal popularity carried him in easily, and
Frank Johnson, the retiring mayor, who had
strongly supported Baker, was unexpectedly
beaten for a mere aldermanship. To complete
the upheaval. W. L. Ware, city auditor for 27
years, was thrown out by a young and little-known
opponent. The fact is that Adelaide is going to
have a big rubbish-destroying furnace. It has to
be put sonieichere ; but the ward it is to be saddled
on is fighting mad, and would vote for the Devil
rather than any of the crowd who arranged to put
it there.
* . * * #
In the N.S.W. public service you can be
Jones in four different ways, so far as the Board’s
special Gazkttk is concerned. You can be
Jones—just plain Jones. Jones is the man who
is dead or has otherwise g-o-t —‘‘‘'■vice Jones,” in
fact. Jos. Jones is the common general-service
bloke—gardener, tinker, messenger and so forth.
Mr. Joseph Jones is the ordinary public servant
who goes to Booligal rice Jones. Joseph Jones,
Esquire, is the new appointee to the high-toned
chair, Yet when Joseph Jones, Esquire, gets the
kick-out he will be plain Jones. It is a terrible
coine-down that—to arrive as Jones, Esquire, and
go out as just vice Jones.
THE PLAY OF THE SURF.
SHE: “ Why do you consider surf-bathing more
demoralising than playing poker? ”
HE: “Well, in poker you only have to show
your hand.”
Dunedin’s Supreme Court (M.L.) is a
veritable Hades of long-winded litigation. The
lawyers drone for hours, spiders spin cobwebs over
the jury, and the press props up its weary eyelids
with penholders. The other day a case about a
horse or a dog or some other frivolous item over-
whelmed a patriarch in the gallery, who, falling
asleep, straightway began to snore. The court
was filled with a soothing, drowsy, mesmeric hum
as though a million blowflies were holding a
recital. His Honor nodded ; the Associate closed
his eyes. A counsel with a strident voice sought
to break up the state of coma by barking like a
dachshund and tearing the inside out of authori-
ties. The snores, as though stung to emulation,
began to trumpet to each other after the manner
of wild elephants. “Gentlemen of the jury,”
yelped the lawyer, “can you conscientiously
bring yourself to” “ Aw-r-r-hawr-r-awr-r-
-rumphrah-hahr-r” chipped in the snorer defiantly.
“Is it proved to your satisfaction that my client
is a ” “ Ahr-r-hwr-wurrumph-rahr-ahrrr ”...
“ Let me ask you, gentlemen of the jury, what
did Mr. Wright say ? ” The snorer, with prompt
decision : “ Awr-rumph-rah-hahr-hawrr-hrrrum-
phah.” Someone laughed and disturbed the
Associate, who woke up a policeman, who stumped
ponderously upstairs. The sleeper let loose a
snore like the turning of the Key of Despair, and
gave a horrified yell in the middle of it. The
Court smiled fatuously, and then wallowed once
more in the 'jjTrough of Desolation, while the Snore
was overpowered and removed struggling.
* * * *
“ J. 8.” direams he burst a Tory :
I never read tfie Daily Tklkgkaph until late at night—
it goes well witfi a heavy supper. The leading article of
30/11/’O9 contained the following : “Itis no use for them
(the coal-miners) to talk about the wrongs that have pro-
voked them into this action. That is not the immediate
question. For, no matter what the nature of their
alleged wrongs may be, the public have given them no pro-
vocation, and it is the public that they are making suffer.
This gives all the advantage of the position to the owners,
at whose hands the public have so far been subjected to no
injury, and against whom, thereff re, as far as the present
position is concerned, they have no cause of complaint.”
Just there I fell without a splash into a sound dream.
The Fat Tory, upon whose luxuriant stomach a long,
heavy gold chain bounced with indignant bounces,
glared at the Hungry Man and the Thin-Ribbed Child.
“ Damyer,” he gulped ; “ what y’ mean by talking about
your wrongs at a time like this ! What about my wrongs!
Eh? You don’t hear me goin’ round whinin’ about
wrongs and rights! \ou(re thrown out ov work and
hungry? What! Can’t y’ rise above your cursed love
ov food? Think ov the Public—that’s what you, ought to
consider at a time like this. You don’t hear 'trie yowling
about food. You’ve averaged only 20 hob a week this
year? What’s that got to do with it at a time like this?
Ain’t y’ got no bowels ov compassion? Y’ don’t hear me
jawing About the sordid side ov this—do y’? Eh? This
is a nice time to he par'ding your wrptehed, tinpot
wrongs— your struggles and ’ardships ; your pore ill-fed
children ; your —ah, y’ selfish pig. Y’ don’t hear me ”
At this stage of the dream “ »T. 8.” twisted the
Tory’s long, heavy chain round his middle until
he burst with a report that awakened the sleeper.
"6 0 tr -*
“K.” : St. James’ old Cathedral, men-
tioned B. 18/11/09) hides in Little Collins-street,
Melbourne, behind a brewery; and it’s a wet day
indeed when a number
of fat casks aren’t
staring it out of coun-
tenance. The old church,
enveloped by ware-
houses, stores and the
like, makes a small,
grev-green plot of peace
in the midst of packing
cases and profane cart-
ers ; but the church
authorities who have
gathered all this world-
liness about them for
profit should have
pulled dowji the old
place and surrendered
the position lons' ago.
Theold-fashioned House
of God is completely
hemmed in bv liierh
commercial brick walls,
and the sinell of beer
bangs ever in the air
like a suspended curse.
Also, the sky in the
vicinity is generally
thick with smoke, and
the rattle of laden
lorries and drays lasts
with the light from
dawn on Monday till
late on Saturday after-
noon. Long ago, before
the An glican authori-
ties sold the land about
their worshipping place,
that must have been a sweet, pictur-
esque hillside. Of course, if the
noise, smoke and beer bring in a
good, fat rental, it is a matter for
rejoicing. Still, I feel rather sorry
for the poor old stifled church, with
the drink casks at the front door.
* * *
A divorce suit that was whispered
about isn’t coming off. The plaintiff
(who won’t plaint) is an artist, and
he proposed to make his friend co-re. ;
but the friend has explained that, though the
lady made certain advances, he declined to re-
spond. In fact, Joseph went down into Egypt
and was tempted by Potboiler’s wife, but resisted.
V * * *
In addition to being a bad smell and a
manslaughter, the motor-car is developing a habit
of being an incendiary that sets fire to itself on
the highway. There have been several instances
in Sydney lately of the fleeing menace bursting
into furnace effects, scorching the Screaming
Blonde and the Straying Husband, turning out
the cursing fire brigade, setting the dogs to yelp,
making the milk horse rear till the cow product is
spilt, threatening to explode like a large land-
owner faced with a stiff land-tax, and generally
being a demon and a disturber of the peace. If a
horse were to burst into flames in the public high-
way he would be promptly shot bv a policeman
A blazing chimney would be fined iOs. and Costs •
but somehow the privileged benzine shebang goes
unmolested—maiming and flaming like the Red
Dragon with the Last Day on its horns
LIMITED LIAMLITY.
PARSON : " Yours is a dcserriny msc, Airs.
Brown. Here's thrippence. He that pivcth to the poor Lendeth to the Lourd, pan k now."
WIDOW BRPWM: ” An' I hope Ile'lt he Me to repay per without puttin' too muck strain on
the. tinances."
“ Illawarra Collier Laddie ” on one of the
miners’ grievances :
The South Coast colliery proprietors make a profit of
1500 per cent, on some of their “slack” or small coal.
Some years back this stuff had no commercial value, and
was tipped as rubbish. The miners then received one-
twentieth of a penny per ton for it. To-day—and for
many a day previous—the value to the proprietors is 6s. 3d.
a ton. But the proprietors still give no more than l-20d.
per ton to the pit slaves. The enormity of the
“ slack ” grievance is so startling that many people can’t
bring themselves to believe it can exist ; and yet only
half die facts have reached the public eye. The average
proportion of slack in coal produced in, say, the Metro-
politan colliery is 40 per cent. Twenty per cent, is pro-
duced during the process of hewing, anil is thrown back
in the colliery by the miners, and hundreds of thousands
of tons of slack are thus buried in the mines. For this
the men get nothing at all. When miners fork the coal
it leaves them as best screened coal, and their skip is full
of large pieces without any slack. Nevertheless,
when it reaches the surface it is screened again,
and as much as 4cvvt. of slack, the result of
grinding in transit, is deducted from the weight
of each skip. It is only for this slack, produced by the
miners originally as round coal, that they are paid at the
rate of l-20th of a penny peFton.
So that for winning 20 tons, or it may be as much
as 40 tons, of slack coal from the depths and dark-
ness of the earth, the pit-slaves received ONE
PENNY—4O ton s worked while every minute is
loaded to the muzzle with Death, for the price of
two boxes of matches ; and the owners receive £6
or more for it.
• «' * *
The Boy Scout: foolery, which issued from
the self-advertising department of showman
Barnum Powell, Inis been causing some disturb-
ance in Adelaide. Jealousies amongst the leaders
or ring-masters, or whatever they call themselves,
ended in two separate Fooleries being enrolled,
and all attempts have failed to merge one small
Foolery into the other, so that a gigantic Foolery
might arise with a clothes-prop in its hand and
ribbons round its knees. A few days ago
Governor Bosanquet, who is the State Scout
Master or Footprint Follower, dragged the
pair of Fooleries before him and spoke to them
according to their folly; but both departed
painted with different colored stripes and twirling
a different war-yell. The only sign of sanity was
a unanimous refusal, to countenance Girl Scouts.
Sydney is suffering from an outbreak of the female
brand, and somebody is going to be sorry for it.
The other night the writer saw three of them,
about 15 years of age, in slouch hats and uniform,
swashbuckling with military canes round one of
the theatres. Their short serge skirts swung to
an adopted swagger, and with each swing there
was disclosed a hqm of white under-petticoat.
The effect of the White Petticoat was as the
bugle call for the fall-in of the Army of the
Damned.
The ancient pile of buildings at the top of
King-street, Sydney, is to go, and £84,000 is to be
spent on new quarters for the Registrar-General’s
Department, on the historic site where the Equity
Court is now. The old buildings were erected in
1822 by Governor Macquarie for prisoners’ bar-
racks, and obstreperous con victs were whipped on
the triangle in the yard. Later the buildings be-
came known as the Immigration Depht, and in
more recent times still as Chancery Square. The
erection of the Registrar-General’s office is the
real start of the ambitious Macquarie-street im-
provement scheme, involving the removal of the
Mint, the building of Law Courts and a general
tittivation of the whole of that side of Macquarie-
street.
***.-»
The Ma State’s new Fire Brigades Act
comes into force on January 1, when a new Eire
Brigade Commission will he constituted to grapple
with the conflagration that most experts are
certain will one day make things warm for
Sydney. The Act has two main features: it pro-
vides somebody with a billet at £3OO a year and
fees, and it gives the Commission power to borrow
£lOO.OOO. Under Wade and Waddell, Ma doesn’t
even think she ought to pay cash for keeping her
premises from being burned down.
» * * *
The Waratah, 140 days out on a two days’
run from Durban, South Africa, has now been
posted missing at Lloyds, and the underwriters
are getting ready to pay out on the cargo. What
the ordinary person said was inconceivable has
now to be accepted, viz., that a British passenger
steamer, meeting all the requirements of the
British law and mote, and embracing all the
modern ideas of shipcraft, should disappear with-
out the slightest trace, though only a few hours
distance from the next port of call. The usual
inquiry is, of course, to be held, hut the usual
inquiry will not be sufficient fpr the people in
England and Australia. Full and searching
answers must he given to three questions—(l) Did
the Waratah in every respect conform tq the
requirements of the surveyors and to the accepted
ideas of shipbuilding, both as regards structural
conditions and stability ? (2) If it did, in what
respect are the accepted ideas wrong, and,why ?
(3) If modern methods are wrong, how many pas-
senger ships afloat are to be considered dangerous?
THE WOLVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The free laborer has made his appearance.— Daily
Telegraph (11112/’O9).
I see the war fla.ar flying' " here Labor’s army rides ;
I hear the trumpet calling: clear and high
A challenge to the foemen, to the battle that decides
A sullen challenge fretting to the sky.
And as I watch them going, all steadily and grim,
Held closely to the standards as a wedge,
I mark upon the distance a creeping line and dim—
I know it for the wolves upon the edge.
Afar they scent the struggle,,no Car Mon more keen
From hidden holes pith burning feet they steal.
The slayers of the fallen ! The fratricides unclean 1
The nameless dog's that snatch the guardless meal !
They heed not cause of honor, of order or of life ;
Desolation is their password and their pledge ;
Where anxiety and suffering mark the passage of the strife
You’ll see the skulking wolves upon the edge.
N.S.W.
GIDRON.


DILUTING THE MEDICINE.


&
' HAVE YOU BEEN BUYING
HONEST SILK?
If a merchant gave you ii of a yard of cloth and made you pay
for one yard he would be CHEATING you. Yet many stores
sell SHORT MEASURE silk and you keep buying it.
The CORTICELLI Silk on every spool is measured by RUL.E.
Corticelli Silk known to Science ...
Test for yourself the strength of Corticelli Sewing Silk. It cuts
into the flesh when you try to break it! Corticelli is the
strongest silk made. No other silk is so elastic and springy.
Corticelli Silk Mills
ESTABLISHED 1838
Australasian Office: 91a York Street, Sydney
EDUCATION BY POST,
-The Proprietors
of Sr.ott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“Home Study,” post free.
Only Address — Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
Our Guinea
Brooches.
are in Solid 15ct. Gold, set
with choice whole Pearls,
Opals, Peridots, Tourmaline
or Garnets.
The range of designs is a
very large one.
ĸ
k
ķ
k
Set in 156 t. Gold at 21 /■ each.
The designs are unique, absolutely new, and from the latest approved in London,
workshops, we finish them exquisitely. Our prices are lower than in London.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Mallarapoonie ” : One of the most sport-
ively-inclined communities in Australasia is that
of tiie cattlemen of the sou’-west corner of Queens-
land. Each season (when “ the time is ripe,” as
the Argus has a habit of saying) the sun- and
wind-tanned horsemen of the blue-hush plains
and sandhills foregather in the little galvanised
iron township of Bedourie, among the gum-fringed
channels of the Lower Georgina ; and, during the
several weeks of carnival, rum, fur, sand, hair
and gumleaves are made to fairly fly. A race
meeting often continues for three weeks ; a dance
doesn’t generally get into swinging order until
sunrise; and a fight may last two or more
days. Item ember one race meeting at Bedourie.
The programme provided for three days of
furious riding, and at the end of a fortnight
all hands were still careering wildly. Small
punctuations of time were set apart in which to
snatch another meal or seize a little sleep. The
racecourse was the last mile of the 120 of the road
from Boulia. Any old substance —a gidya stump,
or a crow, or a wandering goat—did for a starting
point. In fact, sooner than not start at all, a
debt or a religion or any other old portable thing
would have been made to do. The course was
quite the stiffest in Australia, being fetlock deep
in soft, wind-drifted sand, and the winning
post was the verandah of Cragie’s pub. Horse
and rum pervaded most of the scenery,
with dead marine and the jam-tin in
the middle background, and a goat on a
sandhill was the horizon. When the main pro-
gramme was got through, the winners mostly put
up the stakes to be re-raced for, accompanied by
many fierce and voluble side-wagers. That cut
the week out. At daylight on Sunday morning
some red-whiskered horse : erank from the sand-
hills out towards the sunset started an argument
that led to 11 six-furlong flutters and two fights
before lunch. And so on until the following
Thursday dust was being raised with great energy.
Just then a big droving plant struck toyvn. The
Oldest Inhabitant reclined up against the south-
east breeze and remarked that it was th’ biggest
blanky drovin’ plant that ’ad struck “ th’
Bed” since ’B9. an’ bizness should be good
fer anuther week. It was. Even the drover’s
dogs were not the dogs they had been on arrival
a week before, and at the end the local william-
goat just leaned his beard on the ruined scenery
and sighed. The wiry bronze-faced horsemen of
that big, free, sunlit region rode and drank and
gambled and fought until what horses weren’t
foundered were, tired of life, and the money was
done, and the rum finished, and the last argument
settled, and things were fizzled out by natural
causes. Then they saddled up and. followed by
their various blackboys (much the worse for wear)
driving the lame “ spares,” and with partly-
wrecked dogs (dogs have their sprees !) at their
horses’ heels, they dispersed over the horizon to
pursue for another year the monotonous business
of punching horned stock from skyline to skyline
through the clear, rare atmosphere that shimmers
far out over the silent wastes.
GIVING THE SHOW AWAY.
ONE OF THE SYNDICATE : “ Didn’t we tell yer to be sure and win only by a foot? Instead of
that, yer tear in six yards ahead!”
NEWLY-DISCOVERED WONDER: “By cripes, me siwilem beer ahead.”
“ Jakay ” : A northern nigger of my know-
ledge was given a commission to secure a crocodile
alive or dead. After trying vainly for several
days to entice the wary croc, with live-dog bait,
it dawned on his barren intellect that human bait
might secure the prize. So he got his gin down
to the river, shoved her in, and tied her to a stake
so that she wouldn’t drown too quickly and thus
become useless, for live bait is required on these
fishing excursions. Mary splashed and squealed,
a mass of bare flesh and top notes, while Bill sat
stolidly on the bank with an old rifle and waited
for a shot. Finally the gin, tired of splashing and
probably frightened lest she should attract the
big reptile prematurely, became quiet. This
didn’t suit for croc, fishing, so she was kept on the
move with stones, lumps of wood and cheery
words. Still no croc, happened along, and the
fishing was given up for that day. Mary was cast
adrift to be used on future occasions when there
was more hope of a bite. But next day there was
no Mary in the camp, and a poor sorrowful black
brother scanned the distant horizon for his live
crocodile bait.
*** * .
“ Mut ” writes from Boulder City (W.A.):
“Wang,” with his discourse on decadent towns
(B. 21/10/’O9), is not “in it,” when the history of Rock-
ingham (Westralia) is cited. Said town-site is situate 20
miles due south of Fremantle, and stands on Peel’s Inlet,
so called after one of the earliest settlers.
When the first batch of immigrants blew up to Garden
Island, a few days elapsed before a landing was effected
on the mainland, and, according to tradition, not a few
died of woe as they gazed oh the adjacent desolation.
; As time wagged on, however, new country was opened
up, and quite an extensive timber trade sprang into exist-
ence. The centre of the industry was Jarrahdale, 20
miles east of Rockingham, and that port proceeded to
have its day. Numerous deep sea craft, trafficking with
Fremantle, poked their noses in for cargoes of jarrah, and
the busy little harbor showed great promise, as all the
export trade from Jarrahdale passed through its portals.
Kingdoms wax and wane (vide the poets), likewise sea-
port towns ; the latter more especially when combines
and trusts take over the industries of a country. The
timber combine was rather too drastic, forit swept Rock-
ingham practically out of existence by removing' its ex-
port business to Bunbury. Hence the birthplace of
Bigjohn Forrest now holds a monopoly of the trade.
Nowadays the advent of astranger in the aforesaid town
of Rockingham has the same effect upon the five remain-
ing families as a ferret has when liberated near a burrow
containing five rabbits. One solitary pub exists (how 7 ,
one can only conjecture) likewise a post office and school.
The mistress of the academy has taught the local youth
for the last 30 years.
The steam tramway, once the scene of active life, is
now only used by mill-hands who seek a day’s fishing.
They travel coastward per medium of a truck hauled by
an antiquated brumby. Even the fish have deserted the
harbor.
Some of the old lags aver that the sand dunes are
haunted by demoniacal forms, but this theory is merely
the raving of diseased minds.
When the moon rises cold and gloomy over the misty
eastern plains, the wreaths of haze tremble duskily as her
silvery beams gather power. Then it is that imaginative
minds build phantoms on a foundation of beer, and the
roof of the mental edifice is gin, and the turret would
probably be cocktail only that drink isn’t known at
Rockingham.
“Pedro J. Vallazo” : As a full-fledged
cockatoo I had barrow-loads of trouble a few years
ago with a newchum from the Cold Bull Country.
Hired him off the ship to dig spuds, feed the
porkers, bring in the moo-cows, and otherwise
leap and hustle about the selection. Soon dis-
covered he was more loss than profit to me. He
began operations by losing himself all day in a
40-acre paddock, half a mile from the humpy,
where he was sent after the cows. Made his
appearance about dark, heeling up two old work-
ing bullocks instead of the milkers. Soon after-
wards crippled himself for a month by chocking
one of the wheels of a bullock-dray with his big
mundoeys. Sent him to saw off a high limb of
a gum-tree for a bees’ nest. He sat on the
wrong side of the cut, and came down ker-
flump into a deep creek over which the
limb projected ; lost the honey, but
reached home with a fairly numerous
colony of bees clinging affectionately
around him. He was' laid up three
weeks with an attack of dyspepsia,
induced by eating a junk of wooden
pear, which he had now come to
think should always be boiled soft
before eating. Grave him a gun
one day, telling him to shoot all
the pademelons he could see in
the, cultivation patch ; and hang
me if he didn’t blow all my beauti-
ful young watermelons into pulp.
Said he thought I wanted them
mashed up small for jam-making.
Finally, he went clean off his
head at the sight of a clump of
young grass-tree spears, which he
asserted were green snakes stand-
ing on their heads on charred
stumps, ready to throw somersaults
at him. I packed him off to an
asylum, and chucked the selection. His doctor’s
expenses ran me up Phillip-street.
* * * *
“ Pick ” : With all due deference to Out-
back “Jimmie Pannikin,” I submit that the Land
of Sunset as a region of flowers is not in it with
Kiandra in springtime. After the melting of
winter’s snow, the plains and hillsides of Monaro
are a variegated glory of bluebells, daisies, yams
and radiant hop-scrub blossoms, while the many
swamps and shaking-bogs wear a sheen of purple
swamp-lilies. It is a beautiful country, except
for the Chinese fossickers’ hovels that smudge the
landscape; but it is the worst place in the con-
tinent for snakes and scorpions. The inhabitants
never think of putting on a coat without previ-
ously turning the sleeves to empty out reptiles,
and bush men who ‘smoke always carry a long
splinter, called a jabber, with which to the
death adders out of their pipe-stems.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Strange it is how
many' men on the land still persist in regarding
Reynard the Rambler as a friend because he kills
a rabbit or two. The fox will be one of the
worst scourges ever imported into this unfor-
tunate country if prompt measures are not taken
to root him out by the tail. The evidence of
trained observers and recorders is all against Him-
of-the-Beautiful-Brush. Dr. Macgillivray, of
Broken Hill, a noted lover and scientific student
of Australian bird life, recently returned from
some weeks’ investigation in the interior. He
reports that he and his' party saw the tracks of
foxes everywhere; that the foxes are doing
infinite damage by killing off the native ground
birds, such as the plover, the young emu, and
many small useful insectivorous, earth-nesting
fowl. The doctor adds : ‘‘The unfortunate part
of the matter is that some squatters and settlers
regard Reynard as a friend, because he kills off x
few rabbits ; but he is multiplying at such a rate
that he will soon be a mighty pest.” The fact is
that some squatters and settlers would love and
cherish “ hanythink himported from Hingland.”
Importation is an obsession with them.
“ Wang ” explains why he dodges the par-
son in his old age
When I was a boy I hated the sight of a parson.
Usually the first intimation I got that a sky-pilot was
expected was the- command to assassinate a fowl and
pluck it—a Stone Age job which I loathe to this day.
After that, the orders for the day prescribed a general
clean-up of the yard and all outlying territory, including
the pig-sty. Half an hour before the holy man was ex-
pected I would be despatched in a freshly-scrubbed
condition to the most remote slip-rails, with strict
instructions to have them down ready. As soon as he
arrived and passed through, I had to replace the rails
and fly like a small soul to the next set to perform the
St. Peter act again. There were five fences in all, and I
was a pretty breathless infant when the good man
alighted before the reception committee and patted me
on my hot head. Then, while dad escorted the pilot
across the renovated yard towards the roast fowl, X had to
unhitch the holy horse and lead him to the stable.
There I would feed him and give him a rub down.
Then X would shove the trap into a shed or under a
sheltering tree. If the parson happened to be going
away the same day, the performance had to be gone
through later backwards ; but, when he stayed all night,
my pewter of happiness was full to the brim and had a
head on it. Before I collected the cows at 4 a.m. next
day I had to clean the ecclesiastical boots and feed and
groom the sacred moke. Then when all the urgent jobs
had been rushed through, I would have to kneel while
the reverend did a long-distance pray. All the time the
work would be accumulating at a fearful rate, and the
final “Amen!” generally found me half-way out the
door. Seething with helpless small-boy rage, I would fly
about like a distracted ant and endeavor to overtake the
arrears of chores. The reward for all this at parting was
a keen glance in my direction as the great and good man
moved off, and a loudly expressed hope that I would
always be a good boy and do as I was told. I often felt
inclined to murder one of the family on the spot just to
spite him.
* * * *
Black brother learns slowly; his bingy
has to do most of his thinking, and, as a rule, a
bingy isn’t a rapid thinker, and, when it does
think, it doesn’t think far ahead. For some years
Westralia has been building rabbit-barrier fences,
hoping to keep the vermin back east. Naturally,
black brother’s eatables, moving either east or
west, run up against the fence; so, by degrees,
black brother’s bingy told him that the fence was
a good place to camp against. But, after he had
learned that much, it took him a lot longer to
find out how to work the gates. The rare
inspector managed to catch him in ones and
twos, and tried to teach him that it wasn’t
SLIGHTLY OVER-
DONE.
CUSTOMER: “Say, waiter, this steak is burnt to
a cinder.”
WAITER: “ Unfortunate, sir; but that bullock
was branded just afore he was killed, and
you're eatin' the brand.”.
necessary to smash the latch to get the thing open ;
but that sort of teaching was no good, and it
wasn’t till black brother found that when the
gate was left open the eatables passed through,
whereupon he got hungry, that his bingy began to
do a bit of thinking. Now the inspectors report
that it is only a very infrequent latch that is broken,
from which it seems that black brother of those
remote parts has got one more step nearer Bruce
Smith and other more or less civilised persons.
SUNSHINE AND SHADOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The slow movement of progress in our over-rated semi-
barbaric civilisation was due to intemperance. The drink
power sought to check every forward, upward movement,
to prevent the good time coming too soon. — Rev. Dr. T.
Roseby, as reported in the Daily Telegraph.
I saw 7 the Parson standing by the doorway of the Pub,
Groaning loudly as the Thirsts were passing in,
With his eyes swung up to Heaven, like a sadly-wounded
grub,
And a Warning (same old Warning) in his fin.
“ Oh, brothers,” he was chanting, “ stay a moment ere
you go
To the Barrel and the Bottle in the Bar ;
To the temptings of the Hebe, whose fruits are pain and
woe,
To the triple X and poisonous three-star. .
“All is vanity that bubbles; all that sparkles is not gold ;
Every hogshead is a coffin for a fool ;
The snake is in the pewter, breeding sorrow as of old—
Sool him out, my wayward brother 1 Sool him !! Sool!! !
Every forward [sobbing] movement for the benefit of Man
Is heel-roped by the kersed demon Drink ;
And the Good is drowned [more sobbing] in a run-the-
cutter can,
It pleads unheard above the glasses’ clink.
“ Alas, alas, my brothers ; I see you pass me by ;
The seed is bouncing back from barren soil;
But I shall keep on sowing till I [awful groaning] die—
Who am I that I should shrink from [loudly] TOIL? ”
Still the Thirsts went fleeing past him till they reached
the shining bar ;
I could hear their noses glowing as they drank ;
A scent of beer-suds lifted, and spread itself afar ;
The merry laughter softly rose and sank.
I looked upon the Sad Cove with the Warning in his fin ;
I thought of all the progress that was checked ;
And I weighed them in the balance, and chucked a
little in
Against the Kerse that paralysed and wrecked.
But his promise of the future put my feelings on the
rack—
His world seemed but a sunless vale of tears—
So I shook him by the Warning and passed along the track
To the temple where they sold the joyous beers,
n.s.w,
THE SNAKE.


McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
’ i
F3R
9
More MilesPefCaltonThanArivOi
VACUUM MOBIL OIL,
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
Bull Fights, etc.
State wishes clearly,
and full satisfaction guaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties.
Send full particulars, with ali plans and repo-rs
available, to “MINE,” care J. H. FAWCETT,
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
A country Jaypee of N.S.W. collided with
trouble one day lately. One of the local boot-
makers was brought before him, charged with
sunstroke, aggravated by beer. The J.P., after
hearing the evidence, majestically fined the boot-
maker 10s. with costs. The bootmaker then asked
how long he would be allowed to pay the fine, and
the J.P. told him that he wouldn’t be allowed
any time at all —he must pay at once. The man
who had relinquished the last for the long sleever
thereuponcl'ied in anguish, “I want tick ! Give me
tick !” Therelentless J.P. returned astern “No !’
Then the maddened bootmaker hollered from the
dock or the scaffold, or wherever he was, “You
pay me the 15 bob you owe me and I’ll pay you
the fine out of it ! ” Amidst irreverent laughter,
the voice of outraged Justice was beard ordering
the removal of its clamant creditor, who was
shouting, “You always want tick and you won’t
give me tick ! No more tick for you!” “Take
him away !” implored the Jape E in a choking
voice, and the bootmaker was shoved from the
scene to the adjacent dungeon, crying shamelessly
for his 15s. And the Law looked the ass it was.
“S.S.S.” : Our neighbor, the Dutchman
in New Guinea, civilises the native with splendor—
and the sword. When he desires to explore in-
land he sends a company of soldiers ahead—just
to tell the natives that someone’s coming. Strange
natives caught within a certain of the
Meruke compound are —cautioned. Not long ago
a Resident Magistrate (Papua is peopled mostly
with magistrates) had to go across to Meruke
about some boundary business. He was a simple
young Australian, clad in khaki, and accom-
panied only by his boat boys. A regiment of cavalry,
with colonel and captains in full fig, escorted him
to the Governor’s residence, where he received
first-class hospitality, punctuated with gin-
pites. Dutch . gin-pite corresponds with
American cocktail. Next day a review was
held in his honor; and a brass band
just arrived from Java played tunes for him.
Chargers curvetted ; brass and?gold braid shone
like the sun; all was superlatively splendid. Rows
of woolly heads, copiously anointed with cocoanut
oil, were drawn up for his inspection. A gorgeous
gallant on a mighty warhorse pranced up to
young Australia. “We show you,” he said,
including the woollies with a sweep of his hand,
“how we civilise!” He gave a lordly signal.
The band blared “Gor’ Save,” and the blacks
bolted helter-skelter for the hush. The soldiers
ran after them, and pounded them with the flats
of their swords to induce haste. The simple Aus-
tralian said it' was splendid.
* * * *
“ Canopus ” : How strange a thing is the
Sydney rock fisher—not your casual, mark you,
who slings the brand-new line and hook into the
bounding ripples, arrayed in brilliant tan boots
and dainty tailoring, on a half-holiday. Not he,
but the regular—‘-he of the tattered pantlets, the
bristly chin and the shirt which hangeth loose
and long. He comes every day to stand upon the
water’s brim, knowing not the time, nor caring
whether it be Monday or Friday, winter or sum-
mer. Neither does he any business, but leaveth it
to the missus to maintain his home, caring
nothing for the affairs of this world. Saying put
some three arid a half words a day, he gazes with
the glassy stare of a preserved, penguin at the far
horizon, and defileth the ocean with saliva. He
likes not td be asked whether he has come by any
fish, and will devour the questioner with frightful
gaze and answer rudely. When the sea is too
splashy for him to encompass his desire to be near
it, he taketh himself to the nearest tavern, fixes
his glassy stare upon the ceiling, and defileth the
sawdust from sparrow crow to the final jackass.
Then he gods home to beat the missus. Truly, is
it not a world of strange things?
HE DIDN’T GET THE JOB.
COCKY (to applicant for work): “’Ave-y’ad any
experience with, 'orses? ”
PERCY: “Oh, yes, bai Jove, I remember a fear-
ful one. The horses bolted—haw —with our
carriage, at Home, and I jumped out just as
they—haw—dashed over a precipice, don’t
you know.”
Stony : Mrs. Blaggs could neither read
nor write; but she occasionally went to church.
She lived in a scattered district, and going to
church was in the nature of a social event. At
church, one morning, Mrs. Henry Peeker, whose
husband’s block lay next the Blaggs selection, sat
behind Mrs. Blaggs. The Blaggs family had
more land than the Peekers, wherefore Mrs.
Peeker was inclined to a petty jealousy
of Mrs. Blaggs. As she sat be-
hind Mrs. Blaggs on this parti-
cular morning, Mrs. Peeker saw
an opportunity for polite nasti-
ness. She bent forward. “ Excuse
me, Mrs. Blaggs,” she buzzed,
“but you’ve gotcher hymn-book
upside down.” It was "perfectly
true. Mrs. Blaggs looked straight
ahead of her, and hissed in a
loud whisper, “ Well, Mrs. Peeker,
an’ wot’s it to you if I ham left-
’anded ? ”
V
“ Timber Merchant ” : Said that the
Dorrigo (N.S.W.) railway—providing it takes
a certain route—will save from the clearers’ tires
millions of feet of good timber. The destruction
of valuable Timber is a crime, and you cannot
hammer the faqt too hard into the careless Aus-
tralian’s head. An instance : Maryborough (Q.)
pine cannot be bought now, as it is practically cut
out. There is another variety (hoop pine), which
is now known as Maryborough pine, and is used
for doors, mouldings, etc. But it is harder and
heavier than the original wood, and even when
dry it buckles—a fault from which the real Mary-
borough pine was quite free. The Maryborough
pine was an ideal timber, as it was easily worked,
took a fine polish, was very light, and didn’t
crack or warp. I have a brother in the U,S. who
has had considerable experience in the timber
trade. He lately wrote me that the Queensland'
cedar is far ahead of the Californian variety, and
that lots of the cedar classed as No., 1 on Uncle
Sam’s west coast would only sell for No. 2 in
Queensland; also that in grain, figure and color the
Californian cedar is nothing compared to the
Queensland wood. It is about time the blunder-
ing tree-murderers of Australia were called off the
national assets or converted by scientific instruc-
tion. Ours is a very new continent, yet we have
already done an immense amount of damage to
our forest wealth—mostly through ignorance.
Let us rectify the omission in all haste.
“ Wang ” tells the story of two pounds of
sausages :
An inebriated party, who really ought to have been
furnished with a crayfish, fell into the butcher’s shop,
and laid his head gracefully and invitingly on the
chopping-block. The butcher, by using kindness, at last
found out that the party’s wife had sent him for tvvo
pounds of sausages. The butcher wrapped up that quan-
tity of bagged meat in a newspaper, and extracted pay-
ment for them. Then he piloted the messenger firmly off
the premises. The bearer of Sunday morning’s breakfast
tucked the food lovingly, under one arm, and turned his
face in the direction of home. He zigzagged along for
100yds., and then stopped to watch a three-handed game
of marbles. He became interested. He put down his
parcel of sausages and, without an invitation, joined in
the game. The sausages lay forlornly on the asphalt. A
derelict dog strolled up casually and nervously inserted
an inquiring nose in one end of the parcel. ‘ A joyful
smile suffused his unshaven face and he got to business.
Three sausages had disappeared before the sausage-
owner noticed the happy animal. He kicked the dog
with astounding accuracy, and gathering up his parcel,
staggered on. On a piece of vacant land he found a game
of cricket in progress. He wrested the bat from the boy,
at the wicket, and throwing down the parcel com-
manded the bowler to send him up a fast one. Twodogs
strolled up from nowhere, as if they had arrived by
appointment, and became intensely interested in the
contents of the parcel. A minute or two later the man’s
attention was directed their way by the sounds of a
mighty combat between themf He smote them feroci-
ously with the cricket bat to dficompanying lamentations
from the players, and rescued half a sausage from the
mouth of the slowest dog. Then he gathered the parcel
up once more and proceeded on his way with a grey,
flabby sausage dangling from the hinder end of the pack-
age. The two abject dogs noticed it, and followed him
silently and persistently, like wolves after a sledge laden
with fat Russians. Other dogs tailed on until it was a
procession. Now and again a dog would jump and snap
at the meat. But the messenger’s gait was, erratic, and
the sausage waggled elusivelyand dodged the jumps of
the pursuers. A poster showing a beauteous female
attracted the attention of the sausage conductor. He
stopped to gaze at it, and the dog whose turn it was
to jump won the prize. He pulled at it, and other
bags of squashed meat came into sight. The
lucky dog followed up the lead, while the others
danced enviously around, waiting for a chance to get in
a tooth. Then, having gazed his fill on the poster, the
distributer of sausages proceeded on his way with his
untidy parcel under his arm and a dog, gulping hard,
attached to one end of it. He reached his front gate as
the last of the string of sausages issued from the paper
covering and fell to the ground. Fourteen dogs fell on it
at once and tore it to pieces. The man bumped his way
into the house, and, three minutes later, reappeared with
a sheet of newspaper, in his hand and a shandygaff look of
terror and incredulity in his eyes. Afar off, a galloping
herd of dogs disgraced the street; and somewhere inside
a voice proclaimed that he wasn’t a man at all.
THE BEER QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A SLEEVED of
brand - new
milk, they say, is
a beautiful thing
indeed,
Fresh garnered in
paddocks of tender
green where the
stout moo-milkers
feed ;
And, although the
brand of his class
is plain on the
fat beer-fancier 1 s
brow,
The preacher of pap
and the hx’penny
bun, the prophet
of curds and
whey,
They say he may
yet be saved from
beer by the gospel
of new-mown cozv.
1 haven’t a
word to say,
Except to re-
mark, with
a sigh: “I
love beefs
beautiful,
brown bouquet! ”
With beer, real beer,
to admire at ease—
and shortly, with
pleasure, to drink —
Why, life has a glamor, not
granted to all, that is rather worth while,
I think ;
\et some people scoff at the scoffing of beer ;
there are experts who offer instead
The odor of sanctity— scents that rise from
the benches where microbes play,
The murmur of garlic, of hymn books glued
with the hoof of the boss, long dead.
But, whatever the parsons say,
I’d love to be sniffing, in forests of beer,
i beer's beautiful, broivn bouquet!
As you gaze
on the bubbles that
chister close at the
long beer's foaming brim,
What ao you think of the
milkman's plan, and what do you think
of him ?
Do you thank your stars for your long,
brown beers, and pity his beer less state ?
With the aid of a large free lunch, with the
helping hand of a midnight cray,
Or a couple of dozen of Sydney rocks set out
07t a large white plate,
What happiness lack you, pray,
When you breathe, with these at your service
now, beer's beautiful brown bouquet ?
VICTORIA.
FRANK HRNTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insunieiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or haiuled in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Arthur E. : “Covers ” turned down after pain-
ful consideration... .Rothree : Webster says an essay is
a composition intended to prove or illustrate any par-
ticular subject,” and we’ll let Web. have his way
Aurora: The thoughts are stale and the verse is lame.
... F.M.P. :20 teeth in the milk set and 32 in the per-
manent, including the “wisdom” teeth, which are only
permanent in moderation W. T. Cobar: Unsuitable.
Boomerang: Hit the basket J.H.L. : Verses fail
because (1) you haven’t anything fresh to say; (2) you
don’t say the old thing in a fresh way ; (3) you try to
rhyme things that won’t rhyme, and too obviously
drag in remarks for the sake of saving a bump
Bushman (Q.): Just a tangle of language in spiky
writing which makes us think of your pest—prickly pear.
... W.C.M. : We agree with you ; the Domain seats are
hard.... Velo : A straightforward statement that she fled
with him, and that you pursued and slew him. Then she
came back, and, after mortally wounding you, committed
suicide. The only excuse we can find for the bareness
of the narrative is that you had no time to waste. Are
you dead yet? J.C.J. (Carlton): At this juncture we
cannot print a poem wherein Master and Man cordially 7
sing together in a sort of moral duet and agree about
everything. Also the statement that in 1887 you wrote a
poem called “ The Drunkard’s Child ” doesn’t impress us.
J.G. (Richmond River): Thanks for cutting; verses
quite hopeless.. .R.T. W.: A dry narrative about water
Phidias : Sorry to have to reject such clearly typed copy.
...Bill the Bear: Consider yourself discharged under
the First Offenders Act I. AlO. : Yours is a good cause,
but the verses are fathoms below publication level
8.0. (Sydney ): If smiling at men is the woist you want
to do, start right away'. This is a mournful world, where
smiles, are scarce A.W. (Sydney): Geometrical poem
received. You say “Oh ! it’s hard to go straight in a
world so round.” So it is ; but it’s harder still to square
up... M.B. : Verses unsuitable... No. 3 (Geelong): The
pen is not your weapon. Try the sword —or the axe
Clancy : The two poems overflowed into the basket
E-O.P. (MX.): “Sir,—Are these verses any good?” To
which we repl.v as follows: “ Sir, —The verses are no good
whatever.” (This correspondence must now cease)....
V.S. : Your poem has two wooden legs. We heard it stump-
ing up the stair and stopped it on the landing, where the
light is bad and murder is easy.. ..J.U.P. (Broken Hill):
Yawned 14 times whilst plodding through your yarn....
Ajax: Don’t want a “ regular letter ” even from Gehenna.
Do want bright paragraphs from everywhere. But
you’re a wordy cuss—the lightning would be all over
before you’d half finished 'your few opening- remarks. ..
ti.O.K.: The Tyson estate didn’t go into Chancery. It
went to about 22 relatives and 222 lawyers. No will was
ever produced; whether one was ever made or not is
another yarn.... Clarinda : Cut out the claimed par,
mark with date and page, and send to the accountant
Ii.F.R.: “ Please publish the enclosed poem in your
Christmas No. My mate thinks it bosker.” Betterchange
your mate ...Cam: All weak little things. .„ Dinda :
Style all right; but subjects trivial... .Velox : Now,
ffankly, is canteemkeeping part of a soldier’s duty ?
E.S. (South Gippsland): The basket foreclosed on your
banking poem.. ..H.C. : There js.no poet’s corner in this
paper. The poet pervades the whole inky mansion, and
puts his feet impartially on the kitchen hob and the
drawing-room mantelpiece. . . .O.H.F. : Verses evidently
nailed together in haste... .L.H.: We submitted it to the
Religious Editor and he immediately engaged in prayer.
S.A.H. : Three harmless little poems, with no vices
and no virtues.. ..Bushy Bill : Funny in spots ; but it’s
a long way between the spotsO.S.O. : Fairly well
done; but the' climax can be seen approaching while
it is still afar off... .'BIB. : Maybe we’re a sour
lot; but we couldn’t raise a smile over it.....
G.A.: We’re sending the pup back ; favorably consider-
ing the other... G. A. (Box 93): Chaotic verse, marred
here and there by mutilated English words—” Myst’ry,”
“Cdlv’ry,” “ moCk’ry,” “gorg’ous.” We don’t care for
disemvowelled' language-../.Mamie; Same old theme.
Same old sudden death. . . .L. McC.: Good-bye ! lan
Barque : Don’t do it again.... F.B. Y. (Woollahra):
Regret story unsuitable.. . .L.E.N.: Cherry-tree poem
cut down and burned. It isn’t safe to send
any sort of timber to Sydney during the coal strike....
Eros : Shun the company of the people who “persuaded”
you to send that poem to us.:. . W.C.M. i Unsuitable
D. Hindson : Verses a bit raw Orange : Not up
Marcus : The mining poem stamped 0ut.... ,-O.E.D. :. You
can't sing that in these columns J.M.O. (M.L.): Un-
suitable D.M.M. : Ditto.. Lex: Likewise J.C.
(South Melb.): Humor rather thin.. . 1 A.S. (Christ-
church) : Three cheerful but mediocre chirps... .Ethel W.:
Re “ Summer Idyll.” (I) Your address is at a post office,
and most people who write from post offices are sellers of
stolen verse and copied pictures. (2) The “Summer
Girl ” and the Earl and the glories of May all suggest that
the verse is a copy from an American magazine. The
Summer Girl is pure Yankee. Earls are sekice here. And
May isn’t a month of riotous blossoming in these parts
Crux: Your story about how idiots become Labor mem-
bers is interesting, but it doesn’t carry conviction. Idiots
of that type don’t become Labor members. Of course, we
accept your assurance that you are a good friend to the
Democratic cause and only write your yarn from the best
motives, but when we get a good friend like vou we’ll
poison him on spec... .Eegeebee : Your first line' states
“ I had not slept a moment ere I dreamed.” Now, unless
you took the clock to bed with you, how did you know
how long you had slept ?... .V.P. : Drought poem
crowded out... .G.A. : A firm conviction holds us
that Dad isn’t going to rope that colt after all
Edward H. : “ One Night ”is red-hot. We cooked a chop
on it to save coal . .M. : Story of a madman and an
insect 6ft. high too crude a horror. Horrors should
show some discrimination E.W.B. : No, thank you.
Send it to_ some Tory publication Minx’: Depressing
tale of a bright girl who abased herself before a “superior
person.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Scrub-axe: No, you’re not much of an artist. Also,
on samples submitted, you’re not much of a joker
T.F-H. : Humorous, but Try us again.... B.B.:
Quite hopeless.. ..R. : Neither hits us hard enough
XIZ : Practise for three years, and then come again....
A.S. : Horrible....G. Colville: Two of the jokes were
old, so we gave the third one the disadvantage of the
doubt, and assumed that if was old likewise Bert R. :
There are far too many pictures which simply represent a
pair of ordinary men, with a line below to explain what
one ordinary man is saying to the other ordinary man.
Don’t be ordinary.
“Pick : I want to hear from any Abo liar
who can name a district that beats Monaro for its
variety of fences. Here is a list: Post and rail or
rails, plain wire, rail and wire, iron dropper,
paling dropper, pack fence, brush fence, scrag
fence, chock and log, fork and log, dog-leg, cocka-
too fence, wire netting, barbed wire, stone wall,
stone wall and top wire, sapling and wire, mud
wall, paling, picket and nondescript. Apropos, I
have noticed that the style of fence on a property
is a pretty good indication to the wayfarer as to
whether it is wise or otherwise to ask for tucker
at the homestead.
Mr. W. Daniels, Temora, N.S.W., says:—
“Some six months ago I was very ill for nearly
a week with colic pains, Suffering great agony.
Speaking to Mr. Rigney, one of our local chemists,
about it, he said he had a good remedy for such
complaints. Leaving me for a few. minutes he
returned with a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy. After the first
dose I felt relief, and in less than 24 hours was
completely cured. My daughter has also during
the last few months been similarly attacked, but
a dose of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy soon put her right. lam now
never without it in the house, and make a point
of recommending it to my friends.”*


BETWEEN COAL VEND AND STRIKE.
Man in the Middle You both say you are doing your best for me. Well, all I can say is that between you lam
getting the daddy of a soaking.”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
m
m
ķ
To H.M. Kins?
Alfonso XIII.
tyf-
CfI AMPAGUE of tabu
Sparkles with pure Natural Gas, which distinguishes it
from all waters containing manufactured carbonic acid gas.
To ELM.
Edward VII.
Chronic Constipation.
“For years I suffered terribly from chronic con-
stipation,” writes E. J. Taylor, 292 Riley Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. “I am now entirely cured
through the use of Laxo-Tonie Fills.” All
sufferers from constipation will obtain like results.
Laxo-Tonie Pills are sold everywhere at IOJd. and
Is. Gd.*
You pay one shilling when you shout a friend.
It’s worth it in this hot weather.
You pay two shillings a month for ** The
Bulletin/'
It’s worth it in any weather.
You pay one shilling a month for " The Lone
Hand."
It’s Worth it all the Time !’
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The late Sam Hordern’s N.S.W. estate
has been valued for probate at £2,925.924 net; so
Treasurer Waddell’s windfall reaches £292,592.
Of the N.S.W. Parliament of 50 years ago
there were two members left for certain last week,
and possibly three ; but the death of Mr. Edwin
Mawby Sayers cut the number down by one.
Mr. Sayers, who had walked, rowed and other-
wise navigated himself past the 91st milepost, sat
for St. Leonards, and was connected with that
and other parts of North Sydney for most of his
(10 years in N. S. Wales. Of the men who sat in
the Parliament of ’59, Mr. Samuel Lyons is living.
Another member was Lyttleton Holyoake Bayley,
who represented Mudgee, but retired from Aus-
tralian public life and subsequently got a Judge-
ship in Bombay. He also was alive a year or two
ago, but since then has got out of sight somewhere.
FUEL—ON ITS LAST LEG.
r> -r. n/r i . , . . . ,
R. D. Meagher had visions of a restored
solicitor wearing the gold chain of Sydney’s gaud
Mayor for the next 12 months ; but after the
High Court had spoken, the vision faded, and
when the aldermen lined up to make their choice
nobody was mentioned but Alien Taylor. That
successful timber merchant has therefore started
on his fourth term, with the promise of a lot of
worry ahead, and £lOOO for putting up with it.
. rn . , ” T> n ,
Bishop Ihornton, one time of Ballarat,
retires from the post of general help to the Bishop
of Manchester, and drops out of the fighting line,
He was a fierce antagonist of Beelzebub in his
younger days, and as a curate flapped his coat-
tails so strenuously in the streets of London that
stolid bobbies twice arrested him as a public
nuisance; but Bishop Moorhouse took him out of
his trouble and planted him in Ballarat. Only a
few times did the coat-tails show a tendency to
flap in Australia ; presumably either Beelzebub
or the bishop changed with the climate. The
retired bishop is now 74, and, as he is fond of
books, he will not be altogether lonely.
That Lady Constance Stewart Richardson,
daughter of the late Earl of Cromarty, who (so
the cables say) is to appear in classical dances at
the Palace Theatre, London, is the wife of a lank
young baronet who was A.D.C. to. Governor
Lamington in Queensland.
One day this month R. H. Levien, father
of the House, completed 29 years’ continuous
membership of N.S. W. Assembly. He was first
elected for Tamworth on Dec. 2, 1880, and he
alone of all the members of the 10th Parliament
holds an Assembly seat in the 21st.
Ex-Labor leader J. C. Watson is back
from S’Africa with two or three dredging options
in his clothes and two or three stone less under
them. He left some of his weight on the dredg-
ing claim he was testing; being a wretched sailor,
he lost the rest on the voyage.
That quaint Victorian enthusiast, McLach-
lan, M.L. A., is getting himself loved for his
originality. Lately he asked the Murray Govern-
ment if it was in favor of granting a bonus for
killing snakes. Premier Murray, in reply, said
that no man needs a bonus to make him kill snakes ;
but McLaehlan seemed to be only half convinced.
Cornelius Job, the youngest of the Biblical
Hams who for about half a century have been
dabbling in Victorian real estate and politics,
died last week, aged 72. The Cornelius Job, and
the David, and the Theophilus, and the rest of
the Biblical remarks were due to the fact that
Father Ham was the first hard-shell Baptist
minister in Victoria.
By way of a coincidence, Sleath and Fergu-
son, the last big-strike leaders who were arrested
in N. S. Wales for conspiracy—that was 17 years
ago —w T ere taken by Goulder, the man who
arrested Peter Bowling for conspiracy the other
day. And Saunders, now in charge at Newcastle,
was then in charge at Broken Hill, where it hap-
pened. Goulder, then a detective, is now an
inspector; Saunders, then an inspector, is now
superintendent.
Gerard Trower, D.D., a once well-known
laborer in the Sydney section of the vineyard, is
coming back to Australia. Some years ago he
was at Christ Church, at a time when Christ
Church was in the van. To-day that tabernacle,
like most city churches, is at the rear, and its very
existence is threatened bv the resumption ogre.
Dr. Trower, after he left Australia, went to
Nyassaland, in a bishop's gaiters, and now he
goes to north-west Westralia wearing the Maine
brand of leg-protectors.
The Bulletin’s N.S.W. Gallery photo-
grapher takes a picture of John Louis T retie
He sits for the Castlereagh, and is one of the younger
members of the Labor party. On the death of Hngliie
Macdonald, in 1906, Trefld succeeded to the vacancy easily,
and won the seat more easily still in 1907. A native of
Victoria, he is racially of the same composition as
Canada’s Prime Minister, Wilfrid Laurier; he had a
Freneh-Canadian father and a mother from the High-
lands. With the facility of the French, he has rhe
caution of the Scotch. But he has no ancestral weight
on his Radical soul. Young Trefl6 was apprenticed to the
plough, and became so proficient that he won competi-
tions. Ilis education was not neglected, and he ex-
changed the plough for the editorial pen of his own
paper, the Tumora Independent. His writings on
the land question, the result of experience and
hard thinking, attracted wide attention, lie was
founder and first secretary of the N.S.W. Farmers arid
Settlers’ Association, but it became too reactionary for its
parent, who abandoned it to the people who now use it to
prop up Wadeism and favor the Federal Fuse. A keen
and incisive debater and a fluent and effective speaker,
Trefl6 has the rich voice one likes to listen to. His
modesty is surprising, arid his courtesy is incurable. He
is regarded with much satisfaction by his party, and many
Ministerialists vote him the ablest of the Oppositionists.
He is tipped as Secretary for Lands in any State Labor
Ministry.
Among those who hastened to congratu-
late James Mills and George McLean when they
were recently branded by squat-
ter Edward Rex to show that
they had made a lot of money
out of the red-funnelled U.S.S.
Co. (M.L.) the Otago Har-
bor Board, much to the disgust
of William Belcher, Secretary
to the Seamen’s Union. Win.,
since he has got a seat on the
Board, has been busy upsetting
its dignity, and generally giving
it cold shivers. Last meeting he
moved—-“ That the resolution
passed by this Board congratu-
lating certain persons on alleged
honors being conferred on them,
be rescinded and expunged from
the books.” The Board paled at
the horror; hut, plucking cour-
age from the fact that the earth,
air and heavens remained in
their advertised place of busi-
ness, the other members hurriedly
cut out the motion’s vitals, and
let its plebeian blood drain into
the spittoon.
James Hutchison, of the Federal House
of Reps., just dead, was an apprentice compositor
on the Aberdeen Daily Frkis Press (Scotland) in
the early ’7o’s ; and a lad named J. A. McPherson
worked alongside him. In 1897 it was Hutchison
who took his old apprentice-mate’s place in the
State Parliament, when the latter died in harness
as member for East Adelaide. Hutchison was
one of the founders of Adelaide Quiz, a little
weekly which stdl lives,
n o-n » • ... j- j, i
„ . , Sllk “ afc a am .°?9 laW^erS ™
Brisbane; Mr. A. PI. H. leez, lately appointed
a K. 0., is the only practising barrister in Queens-
]and who wears it. The last K.C. appointed
was Arthur Rutledge, who later on accepted
a minor Judgeship. Mr. Feez was called
to the Bar on September, 1881. He is a
grandson of District Court Judge Callaghan,
who was accidentally killed in 1863 in a
horse saleyard at Braidwood (N.S.W.). Also he is
a great-grandson of Justice Milford, who was
resident Judge at Moreton Bay in 1856, and after-
wards sat on the Supreme Court Bench at Sydney,
The venerable Mrs. Callaghan, of A v oca, Rand -
wick (N.S.W.), is the new K.C.’s grandmother,
T. A. DIBRS, OF SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA'S
OLDEST BANKER.
Judge Paul, of Queensland, who died last
week, was the son of George William Paul, who
carried on an auctioneer’s business in George-
street, Sydney, in the ’thirties. The son was
born at Penrith in 1839, and was schooled in
Sydney; but he went to England for his law,
and, returning to these parts, was lifted up to the
bench at the very sensible age of 35.
Tozer, the man who gave the Queensland
language a new common noun, and in gratitude
was made Agent-General, got his start in life at
Port Macquarie (N.S.W.). The house in which
he was born was built in the old settlement’s
earliest days, and, though condemned 12 months
ago, has been patched up; so “ the Port ” will
still have it to proudly point to. Tozer, senior, in
the days of Port's prosperity, when all the New
England wool reached the Sydney market that
way, carried on a storekeeping business, and was
also in the boiling-down line.
Ex-Judge Bundey, who died in Adelaide
last week after a long illness, was a lawyer against
whom nothing damaging was ever said
even in joke. At 10 he was earning his
living as an office boy. A year or two
later he had to go into the country
for health’s sake, and there he be-
came clerk of the local court at 18.
Owing to early disadvantages, he
was nearly 30 before becoming
qualified as a lawyer; but in 13
years he was a Q.C., and in six
more he gave up a proved income
of £4OOO a year, to accept a £l7OO
Judgeship. It was said that he
had never defended a prisoner
about whose innocence he had any
doubt, and, as a Judge, for nearly
30 years his courtesy to witnesses
and his lack of rudeness to con-
victed criminals were proverbial.
As Attorney-General of S.A. for
several years, Bundey carried through
Parliament the University Bill and
in face of keen opposition—Hie Hills
(afterwards the Melbourne) Railway B.
In private life he was famous as a’
yachtsman, and he wrote the most
readable things yet printed about that
sport in Australia.
Only one man—John Harris, who
is still in the council—has beaten Allen
Taylor’s score of four times Mayor of Syd-
ney. Those who have equalled it are W.
P. Manning and Thomas Hughes.
Sydney University is gradually giving up
its old habit of crying Stinking Fish, and dipping
into somebody else’s basket when it wants a pro-
fessor for home consumption. It has so far
appointed three of its own graduates to various
chairs—Butler, Pollock, and .T. B. Peden. The
last named, a Sydney man who has been rushing
ahead at the Bar during the last few years, is the
good choice made of a law professor to succeed
Pitt Cobbett.
One of the few curiosities of the Federal
Convention, as it first met in Adelaide, died the
other day in the West. Bigjohn Forrest, then
Dictator over at Perth, practically nominated the
Westralian team, and among them was R. F.
Shod, a highly respectable old gentleman who
had the virtue of having been born at Bunbury,
which Bigjohn also honored in the same way. Of
course the Convention was miles too big for Sholl,
and after saying nothing and looking wise for a
while, he just chucked up the dull job of founding
a nation and went for a trip to Europe. Curi-
ously, there were two R. F. Sholls at the Conven-
tion—this one in it and the other one at the
official reporters’ table.
The late Tristram Dunstan, of Sackville,
Hawkesbury River, belonged to a family which
helped to make the Hawkesbury famous for pro-
ducing men of vast bulk and long lives. He was
the father of four clergymen, who look good for
100 years apiece, and was himself the son of a
Hawkesbury native who reached the age of 81.
His grandfather hung on until he was 98. The
latter had five sons, all of them of the Hawkes-
bury build.
The prattle of the Westminster Gazette :
Lady Sybil Grey is the latest distinguished gold-
digger. She accompanied herfather, Earl Grey, Governor-
General of the Dominion, on his recent trip to the
Canadian Arctic goldfields. Near Dawson City, Che
capital of the Klondike, she pegged out a claim for her-
self, with all the prescribed legal formalities, and
christened it the “ Sybil.” During the long Arctic winter
Lady Sybil will work her claim by deputy ; hue she will
return next summer to supervise operations and examine
results in person.
These pretentious English —how they pk'ty at
government, at work, at everything ! A countiy
with 10 millions of people inside the starvation
line, yet keeping up the fiction of being still the
prosperous Protectionist England of old ; playing
with ruin, and comforting itself with little putt
pars, about Lady Sybil —the daredevil of a miner
by proxy !
The centenary of Lachlan Macquarie s
arrival as Governor of N.S.W. will eventuate on
December 30. The new man brought with him
the 73rd Regiment, which obliterated, as far as
Australia was concerned, the old New South
Wales or Rum-selling Corps. The Rum-sellers
became the 102nd Regiment, and after a couple of
years’ service in North America ceased to exist.
Many of the men (and officers, too) who had
“formed connections with women” (ride Mac-
quarie) were allowed to remain, and formed the
Veteran Corps. This body is described as having
“died out”—that is to say, it dispersed in an
unofficial sort of way when the y’oungest survivor
became too blind to find his spectacles on the
mantelpiece at midday.
The miners’ monument to Christopher
Robinson, Judge and Lieutenant-Governor of
Papua, has been unveiled at Samarai. The in-
scription runs: —
In Memory of Christopher Robinson, Able Governor,
Upright Judge and Honest Man, died 20th June, 1904,
aged 32 years. His aim was to make New Guinea a good
country for white men. Thisstono was here set up by the
men of New Guinea in recognition of the services of a
man who was as well-meaning as he was unfortunate, and
as kindly as he was courageous.
Life is mostly froth and bubble,
Two things stand like stone:
Comfort in another's trouble,
Courage in our own.
The story of Christopher Robinson has been told
already in The Bulletin —the story of an honest,
unfortunate, courageous, but supersensitive man.
driven to his death. A little jury of bureaucrats
at Port Moresby held an inquest and returned a
verdict that Robinson committed suicide whilst
insane. A truer verdict would have been death
by rumor, envy, hatred, malice and all uncharit-
ableness. And the most appalling feature of the
case was that the malice and nncharitableness
were the possession of certain missionaries.
PARTICULAR.
“Bring me some oysters, and be sure to see they
are perfectly fresh, and not too large , or too
small, but plump; and have them opened with
care, and”
"Yes, sir! With pearls, or without?"
Rev. James Carter, who died lately at
Summer Hill (N.S.W.), aged 82, was one of the
last to be put on the list of parsons to receive
State pensions. He was listed when at Picton in
1859, and he continued to draw £BO 17s. (id. per
annum with great fortitude for just half a century.
Judge Murray, of Papua, goes on a long
holiday, and Mr. Staniforth Smith takes up the
running pro tcm. Some such move was inevitable
—one or other of them had to go holidaying.
Staniforth Smith is a modest man ordinarily, but
long ago he set his mind on bossing a brown or
black section of the Commonwealth, and his mind
seems to be still set that way. The trouble is that
he isn’t a lawyer, so there’s a temporary judicial
job sticking out for somebody.
"SIR GEORGE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whene’er we gazed on George’s form so chubby
We felt, despite his soft, seraphic air,
Despite his amplitude, so round and tubby,
His smirk and smile, so void of carking care,
He scarcely filled the statesman’s amplest metre,
He something lacked to make his grace completer.
It irked us, too, to hear them call him “ Georgie,”
As if our statesman’s broad and beaming face
Were boon companion at some midnight orgie,
Replete with wine and void of saving grace ;
We felt, whene’er he showed his public paces,
’Twere well the vulgar herd should keep their places !
At last it came ; and round the politician
A golden halo seemed to rest awhile,
Then faintly glowed and vanished from our vision,
And what was left was only Paunch and Smile :
A smile to think his Toil had found Requital
In Edward’s Birthday Gift —a brand-new Title.
No longer is he light of limb and agile,
No more he trips on gay, fantastic toe,
Ilis sixteen stone is neither frail nor fragile—
Majestic statesmen are not builded so ;
But thdugh he lacks the lighter airs and graces,
He’ll mount “ Sir George ” upon a solid basis !
Not scornful, like a rigid, close fanatic,
He bids them take their bauble back to-day ;
No show he makes of anger democratic
That such a gaud should come his portly way.
If Sovereigns gracious let such tinsel dangle,
’Tis fitting he, of all, should wear a spangle !
So now behold him stand, a bright example
Amid that massive hut distinguished band
Of beery swells and gold-bugs broad and ample
Who’re hailed as “ Sir ” in a beknighted land,
Prepared, no doubt, our pleadings all resisting,
To bid “Good-bye ” to acroba’tic twisting.
Prepared to give to all a friendly greeting,
To bail Sir Shoddy with fraternal grin,
To feign a fulsome joy at daily meeting
The Baubled Tribe who made their rise in gin ;
To proudly boast at last—“ Whate’er the sequel,
I stand to-day among them as an equal!!"
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.


KOSCIUSKO BN SUMMER .
The ideal time for a summer tour to Kosciusko is now. The motor road to the summit has been cleared of snow, and the tourist glides over its smooth
surface in comfort, surrounded on the uplands by immense fields of glistening snow. No more enjoyable experience could be imagined and the view from
the summit of Australia’s highest mountain is unsurpassed in the world. This trip to the oldest land surface known on the globe and ’the highest point in
the Continent, has been made easy, comfortable, and comparatively cheap. By the aid of a service of speedy motor-cars connecting with the rail-head at
Coorna, the Kosciusko Range has been brought within sixteen hours of Sydney. The journey by motor from Cooma to the Creel (40 miles) and the Hotel
Kosciusko (50 miles) is one of the most pleasant and interesting stages of the journey. The road traverses the broad bosom of the Monaro mostly over
undulating country, well grassed, and used principally for grazing purposes. At 20 miles the little hamlet of Berridale is passed and 16 miles further on
is Jindabyne, a pleasant village lying snugly on the banks of the Snowy, which at this point is a broad, fast-running stream.’ lust before reaching
Jindabyne, the first glimpse is caught of the Kosciusko range since leaving Cooma. Six miles away is The Creel. J 0
The Creel, at Thredbo, is the famous fishing box at the foothills of Mount Kosciusko. A rippling trout stream at the door and miles of magnificent
mountain waters running through Crown lands are available to guests at this Government Tourist House. A few minutes’ walk brings you to the confluence
of the Snowy and the Thredbo, two of the world’s best trout waters, and not far away the Eucumbene, another splendid stream ioins the Snowv Fnr +he
trout fisherman, the situation of The Creel is ideal. F du, joins me snowy. nor tne
Ten miles above The Creel, at an altitude of 6,000 ft. stands the magnificent Hotel Kosciusko, built by the Government It is thoroughly well
equipped, being quite up to date in every detail, and offers every comfort and convenience similar to a first-class city hotel From the Hotel driving and
riding trips are made to the summit, across the great snowfields which hang on the broad shoulders of Kosciusko throughout the summer This journey
round the Kosciusko ridge is full of interest, the scenes varying from each successive outlook, and the road circles round the margins of the Alpine Lakes
—Cootapatamba, Albina, Harnett, and the Blue .Lake. ° 1
3!
&
SWrJ'.i'.
&
&
s cr-J
BY THE SUN-DAPPLED PACIFIC SHORE.
The classic Lido, where the blue Adriatic washes the golden Italian strand, is a famous bathing-place; Coney Island on a warm summer’s day seethes
with myriads of swimmers; the long warm sweep of the breakers from the outer reef to the beach under Diamond Head on Waikiki, caresses the most
daring surf-shooters in the world; but nowhere can the ocean bather find better sport than on the dazzling sunlit beaches that fringe the Pacific within a
half an hour’s tram ride of the City of Sydney. The Australian who has not enjoyed a dip on a Sydney ocean beach has yet to realise one of the luxuries
of the world. The beaches at Manly, Coogee, Bondi, aid else vhere within easy distance of the city, are thronged in summer by night and by day with
jolly bathers of both sexes, and an air of carnival pervades the coastal suburbs. The Semi-Circular Quay is the focal point of the ferry and tramway
services to the beaches at Manly, Bondi, Coogee, and Maroubra. Sydney’s system of electric tramways is the most comprehensive, effective, and cheapest
of any of the world’s great cities, and the cars are commodious and airy. Manly, called the Brighton of Australia, is picturesquely situated at the base of
the peninsula of the Northern Headland at the entrance to Port Jackson. On the southern shores is the wide crescent-shaped beach, lapped by the placid
waters of the harbour, at either end of which are commodious baths for those who enjoy quiet water swimming and the pleasures of diving. Bondi and
Coogee are reached by electric cars along a route through the Eastern suburbs, which, as it approaches the ocean, commands magnificent panoramic views
of the bold coastal promontories, dropping away in regular succession beyond the limit of vision. The ocean— a gigantic indigo ball—spreads in the east, and
the tram drops the visitor at the foaming edge.
The best time to visit Sydney to revel in the delights and enjoy the attractions of this beautiful maritime city, is now. The climate is equable and
temperate, and is conducive to living out of doors. Besides the ocean beaches are the numberless bays and inlets and delightful picnic places of the peerless
harbour, whose extent and beauty has justly won for it a world-wide renown.
m
ONE OF THE WORLD’S GRANDEST PANORAMAS
Hundreds of feet below, to the front and right and left lies the dimpled ocean of the deepest sapphire, fading into the clear-cut horizon to
the palest turquoise. The sands by the margent sea are gold, edged with snowy lace. A line of white foam following the outline of the shore
breaks unheard away and away, and to the dim distance on the right, waves this triple line of blue, white, and gold, until it merges in the
infinity of space.
This is the vision from the Bulli Pass, one of the grandest of the world’s panoramas, to be seen on one of the railway routes from Sydney to Melbourne,
or on a short side trip from Sydney. At the back of this famous tourist district is the great Southern Plateau, crossed by the main line of railway connecting
the Capitals —Sydney and Melbourne. On this route run the finest express trains to be found on any service here or abroad. Moss Vale, one of the leading
centres of this district, with many splendid health and holiday resorts in its vicinity, is the starting point for the cross-country trip over the coastal ranges
to Nowra, on the banks of the magnificent Shoalhaven. Nowra is the terminus of the South Coast railway, and interstate tickets are available for continuation
to Sydney on this route. The traveller will visit absolutely novel scenes, passing in the coach immediately over the head of the Fitzroy Falls, which drop
sheer into a rugged sunken valley to a depth of 1,100 feet; the vegetation on the ranges is semi-tropical, and luxuriant, and the journey on the coastal
railway has no rival in its exquisite beauty, outside the glorious scenery along the Mediterranean littoral.
Before making this cross-country trip, the tourist has the option of inspecting more closely the Southern Highlands. From Moss Vale, Mittagong,
Bowral, or Goulburn, a splendid coaching drive to the famous Wombeyan Caves is available. These caves seriously rival the incomparable Jenolan in their
wonderful grandeur and beauty, and are situated in a delightful valley, where a Government house affords first-class accommodation for visitors.
Steps have just been taken by the New South Wales Government Tourist Bureau to open up the lower South Coast to tourists. A motor-car service
has been established between Cooma and Bega, and by arrangement between the Railway Department and the steamship companies, round tickets are
available for the journey—Sydney-Cooma, Cooma-Bega, Bega-Tathra, or Eden-Sydney. The lower South Coast district of New South Wales is a luxuriant
garden dappled with limpid streams. The cross-country journey by motor is a splendid drive, sweeping from the tableland, down rugged mountains, to the
blue waters of the Pacific, and no more enjoyable tour could be suggested than a trip over this route.
H
to.
m
gne
V.-;
!■•••!•• i
m
r/Trc,
C®O~S/^
'f/am^sh
m
For full particulars as to Routes, Accommodation, and Cost
in connection with all the State’s Tourist Resorts, apply to
PERCY HUNTER, Director.
THE GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
CHALUS HOUSE, SYDNEY.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society's trials in Enjrland. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
" NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent stock of Large Boilers for
all Mining Purposes, for working pressures of
1201 b. and 1501 b. per square inch, by Ruston
Proctor, Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
CAMEL HAIR 1
BELTING
m ku j
TRADfc
BELTING.
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Mining: purposes. Sot.e Agents,
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT & BENDICO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The November revenue figures for the five
States that issue them monthly (South Aus. wakes up
only once a quarter) are not particularly cheerful.
N.S.W., Queensland and Westralia between them are
£222,308 ahead of their figures for November, ’08. New
South’s share of the lead is £165,610 ; Queensland’s is
£40,507; and VVestralia’s£16,191. Victoria and Tasmania
are the lagging sisters; Victoria is £30,717 to the bad,
and Tasmania £34,69S—a total of £65,415. Subtracting
£65,415 from £222,30S, the improvement is seen to be
£156,893. The expenditure figures, however, so far as
they have been revealed, wipe all this gilt and more off
the national gingerbread. 'N.S.W., Queensland and
Westralia are the only States that tell how much the
cashbox has leaked. In the five months since the begin-
ning of the financial year, N.S.W. has spent £425,691
more than in the corresponding period for 1908 ; Queens-
land has paid away £3365 more. Westralia admits having
spent £7888 more in November ’09 than it did in Novem-
ber’08. The total increase in expenditure for the three
States named is £436,944. That wipes out the aggregate
improvement in income (£156,893), and, in addition,
leaves a dry taste in the mouth which is worth £280,051.
Poor, old extravagant Ma and her managers Wade and
Waddell are the ones most to blame for this distressing
situation : and the multitude of strikes—including John-
son’s railway strike, and the strike of Johnson’s coal con-
tractors, who charged him 40s. for coal that was hewn
before the coal misunderstanding—are not likely to im-
prove things fo r her.
* * * *
The Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd.:—
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1899 .. £49,777 £17,245 £20,033 £12,499 £228,224
1900 .. 53,572 19,760 25,409 8,403 236,627
1901 .. 61,872 19,909 24,725 17,238 253,865
1902 .. 73,782 18,640 24,559 30,583 284,448
1903 .. 73,983 19,585 28,263 26,135 310,583
1904 .. 79,779 18,302 29,285 32,192 342,775
1905 .. 89,738 18,894 36,071 34,773 377,548
1906 .. 98,666 21,026 38,925 38,715 416,263
1907 .. 108,447 21,451 39,616 47,380 463,643
1908 .. 130,384 29,470 44,751 56,163 519,806
1909 .. 160,946 44,733 49,412 66,801 586,607
Industrial Life Department.
Taken from Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1899 .. £24,200 £20,660 £6,924 £3,284 £17,472
Added to
Funds.
1900 .. 29,104 19,839 7,461 1,804 19,276
1901 .. 40,198 26,938 7,724 5,536 24,812
1902 .. 53,597 35,444 8,294 9,859 34,671
1903 .. 69,547 46,230 8,925 14,392 49,063
1904 .. 82,742 48,595 13,365 20,782 69,845
1905 .. 103,499 54,761 14,213 34,525 104,370
1906 .. 118,433 58,833 16,444 43,156 147,526
1907 .. 124,703 52,289 16,129 56,285 203,811
1908 .. 134,723 64,402 22,320 48,001 251,812
1909 .. 145,757 64,954 34,189 46,614 298,426
Accident Branch.
Ex- Added to Total
Sept., Income, penses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1907 .. £2477 £1092 £1177 £208 £208
1908 .. 3345 1785 1474 86 294
Taken from
Funds.
1909 .. 3849 2311 1542 4 290
This society has made rapid progress during the past few
years. Established in 1876, its income in the Ordinary
department at the end of the first 21 years amounted to
£42,787. It is now’, after another 12 years, practically
four times as great. In the Industrial department the
growth has been even more rapid. From £13,067 in 1897
the total income has sprung to £145,757 in the past
year. There are, how’ever, differences of opinion as to the
quality of some of the business and the basis upon which
it is done. Whether Mr. Henry, this society’s general
manager, is right, or whether other actuaries know best,
only time can settle conclusively. P’or instance, when
the last actuarial valuation was made, a full year’s
premium was assumed to be due on every policy ; and,
though that of course produced attractive results on
paper, some other actuaries didn’t find themselves able
to agree with the principle, and declared, in fact, that,
though the results might bring business, an office working
on such lines was weakening its foundations. It is a case
in which, in the midst of conflicting opinions, a thorough
investigation from the inside by an independent Com-
monwealth actuary is called for ; and that can’t come
until the long-delayed Commonwealth Insurance Depart-
ment is created.
Judging for the present merely on the business
figures, the results are very good indeed. The expense
rate still looks high in both departments ; but in the
Ordinary department, if the proportion of new business
and the average size of the policies is taken into account,
the rate is not as high by any means as it looks. Calcu-
lated on total income, the figures for some years past
have been as follows :—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept., Ordinary. Industrial. Accident.
1899 .. £34 12 11 p.c. £S4 19 2 p.c. —
1900 .. 36 17 8 „ 68 3 4 „ —
1901.. 32 3 7 ,, 67 0 3 „ —
1902.. 25 5 3,, 66 2 7 „ —
1903.. 26 9 5,, 66 9 5 „ —
1904.. 22 18 10 „ 58 14 7 „ —
1905.. 21 1 1 .,, 52 18 2 „ —
1906 .. 21 6 3 ,, 49 13 7 ,, —
1907 .. 19 15 7, „ 4118 7 „ £44 1 8 p.c.
1908.. 22 12 0 ,, 47 16 1 ,, 53 7 3,,
1909 .. 27 15 9 ,, 44 11 3 „ 58 10 5 „
But if The Bulletin’s usual practice is followed, and 7
per cent, is charged for old or renewal business, leaving
all the rest of the expenses to be borne b}’ new business,
it will be found that the latter has cost only 80 percent. ;
and that is one of the low’est rates in Australia. Yet the
policies written even in this Ordinary department during
the year averaged only £94 ; and that makes the expense
figures all the more satisfactory. Unfortunately,
however, the smallness of the policies appears
to have another result; small policies don’t appear
to be so persistent as the bigger ones. Conse-
quently, though the lapses are not reported, they
seem to be numerous. Even so, however, a society
which strives to pass the best of its Industrial insurers
on to the Ordinary department is doing good public ser-
vice. For even in this society, whose expense rate is
comparatively low, the Industrial business is only done
at a cost of £44 11s. 3d. per cent, of the total income, or
nearlj 49 per cent, of the premium income. That is to
say, only a few pence short of 10s. of every £1 paid by the
Industrial insurer goes in pursuing the business and the
premiums and in office expenses, leaving only a penny or
so over 10s. available for actual insurance. Obviously,
the sooner the insurer can be trained to the insuring
habit, and passed on to the Ordinary branch, the better.
On the average of the funds, the interest earn-
ings have been as follows :—
1902 .. £4 9 4 per cent.
1903 ..488 „
1904 .. 4 9 1 ,,
1905 ... 4 10 6
1906 .. £4 9 1 per cent.
1907 ..492 „
1908 ..4 9 7
1909 .. 4 10 3
These also are satisfactory figures ; and in general the
assets pass the test pretty well. Just 41 per cent, of
them consist of public securities. Recently, however,
the inclination has been towards mortgages, in which 27J
percent, of the total assets are now’ stuffed. This probably
accounts for the higher interest earnings ; but some of it
ought to be put aside to meet the inevitable losses through
depreciation of some of these securities. The society’s
freeholds (with a little lot of leaseholds) are too large—
-12 per cent, of all assets—but there are worse examples.
Altogether the society is showing a great deal of energy ;
it is probably writing as many, or almost as many, indus-
trial policies as any other two offices in Australia put to-
gether. The one doubt that remains is w’hether their
numerousness isn’t partly due to the promise of results
which other offices wouldn’t venture to hold out.
« * * •
The English, Scottish and Australian Bank :
Net Profits on
Busi- Repurchase
ness of Old Written Re-
June, Profits. Deposits. Dividends. Off. serves
1899.. £15,411 £21,032 Nil £6582 £67,124
1900.. 38,465 8,678 2$ p.c. = £13,486 100,781
1901.. 41,907 579 3£ „ „ 18,880 124,387
1902.. 49,329 4,929 4 „ „ 21,578 157,067
1903.. 40,806 1,828 4 „ ~ 21,578 178,123
1904.. 45,585 1,273 4 „ „ 21,578 203,403
1905.. 48,348 1,527 4 „ „ 21,578 85,991 145,709
1906.. 48,667 1,797 4J ~ „ 24,275 8,990 162,908
1907.. 58,324 659 5 „ „ 26,972 8750 156.169
1908.. 61,784 599 5 „ ~ 26,972 19,590 201,990
1909.. 62,194 937 6 ~' ~ 32,366 9,928 222,827
The co. got into bad trouble in 1892, and made so poor a
bargain with its creditors that in 1896 it had to ask for a
rearrangement; and that, of course, was a heavy handi-
cap. Even now shareholders only do fairly well; for the
o.ld debt is represented mainly by stock carrying 4 or 44
per cent., and after 4 or 4j per cent, has been paid and
expenses have been met, there isn’t much profit on that
money left over for shareholders, especially as the
securities standing against the money’ weren’t always
worth 20s. in the £. Still good seasons have helped the
management to do a lot of realising ; and close upon a
million of debt has been got rid of since the 1896 re-
arrangement :
Re-
-1896. 1909. duction.
Debenture stock .. £983,547 £983,547 Nil
Terminable receipts .. 891,454 Nil £891,454
Pref. insc. stock .. 889,419 889,419 Nil
Deferred stock .. 808,758 771,500 37,258
£3,573,178 £2,644,466 £928,712
The debenture stock carries 4 per cent. ; but it is only
redeemable at 5 per cent, premium, and so it is allowed
to stand for the present. The deferred stock, which
carries 4£ per cent, if the bank can afford it, and 3 per
cent, if it can’t afford more, is now receiving attention ;
a sum equal to one-third of whatever amount is
paid in divs. has to be set aside to buy up this
stock. As £26,972 was paid in divs. for 1908,
£8991 became available to buy deferred stock; and
with that money the bank bought up stock having a
face value of £9928. That explains the £937 profit shown
as having been made on repurchases. The whole £9928
was then written off premises. Provided that fair depre-
ciation has been otherwise provided for, this writing-off
is, in effect, the same as adding the sum to reserves.
Reserves are of two kinds—visible and invisible. When
profits are used to write any-assets down below their true
value, invisible reserves, are created. If, however, this
money is simply used to wipe out actual current depre-
ciation, it ought not to he shown as profit at all. In 1908
something apart from this w.as written off ; but nothing
else is written off for 1909.
This next table shows the progress made in
getting rid of the old trouble :
Reconstructed Paid off
Deposits. During Year.
June, 1900 .. £3,176,074 .. £42,416
„ 1901 .. 2,94J,659 .. 234,415
„ 1902 .. 2,906,379 .. 35,280
„ 1903 .. 2,790,924 .. 115,455
„ 1904 ..' 2,780,482 .. 10,442
„ 1905 .. 2,681,724 .. 98,758
„ 1906 .. 2,672,734 .. 8,990
„ 1907 .. 2,663,984 .. 8,750
„ 1908 .. 2,654,394 .. 9,590
~ 1909 .. 2,644,466 .. 9,928
The bank is not rushing matters. During the past four
years it has paid off no more than it has been obliged to.
Money at 4J per cent, is no doubt dear ; but John Bull’s
money market has been in a troubled state during the
last two or three years ; and so long as things are good in
Australia and money can be lent out freely, there are
points in hanging on to permanent money while you’ve
got it even if it does cost 4£ per cent.
The business has grown a good deal lately :
1908. 1909.
Notes .. .. £63,449 £68,071 Inc. £4,622
Bills, etc 345,330 305,150 Dec. 40,180
Deposits at interest 2,031,145 2,450,735 Inc. 419,590
Free deposits .. 1,621,960 1,713,514 Inc. 91,554
Liquid assets .. 2,363,062 2,797,676 Inc. 434,614
Advances .. .. 4,793,054 4,855,135 Inc. 62,081
Premises .. .. 352,281 337,329 Dec. 14,952
Ten years ago the deposits totalled £1,613,924 ; they are
now £4,164,249. The advances then were £3,713,594 ;
they are now £4,855,135. This bank favors the city,
suburban and inner agricultural districts: it is, for
instance, scattered all over the farming districts of S.
Australia. And the farmer has mostly been able to drop
something considerable into the stocking during the past
few years. From the shareholders’ point of view, how-
ever, the prospect isn’t all beer and skittles. The
advances total £4,855,135. Capital and reserves combined
total £762,264. Therefore £1 of shareholders’ funds has
to safeguard about £6 10s. of advances. The proportion
of borrowed money in the business is very large. Under
favorable conditions this means a big profit in proportion
to capital and reserves ; under unfavorable conditions the
risks are equally large. The capital is in 43,155 shares
of £l2 10s. each —mostly held in England.
* » * •
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney):—
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1899 .. £4,235 7 per cent. = £2325 £l9lO £19,145
Forfeited capital .. 16 19,161
1900 .. 4,392 7 per cent. = 2339 2053 21,214
1901 .. 4,911 7 „ „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902 .. 5,261 7 „ „ 2537 2724 26,401
1903 .. 6,900 7£ „ ~ 2762 3138 29,539
1904 .. 6,591 9 „ ~ 3355 3236 32,7’ ; 5
1905 .. 7,639 10 „ „ 3792 3847 36,622
1906 .. 8,952 12J „ „ 4742 4210 40,M2
1907 .. 9,249 10 ~ „ 4126 5123 45,955
1908 .. 9,535 12J „ „ 5659 3876 49,831
1909 .. 12,018 12j „ „ 5836 6182 56,013
Up towards the top of the foregoing table there is a tell-
tale item, “ Forfeited capital, £16.” That was only
between 10 and 11 years ago. Things had been bad with
this co. for some years before that. In the first half of
the ’nineties it had great difficulty in keeping any
deposits at all, and it wanted them rather badly.
Between October, 1891, and October, 1895, they shrank
from £71,780 to £25,899. That steady drain meant forced
sales at a time when nobody’ was keen on buying—or
when nobody seemed keen, any’way. Consequently for
some little time there was no dividend at all. Still the
co. hadn’t been a bad plunger, and it pulled through
remarkably well. Then Federation arrived—the thing
that was going to hand Sydney over to the ravening
wolves across the border—and business soon began to
lookup; and it has been looking up ever since. This
shows more of the progress :
1900. 1905. 1908. 1909.
Debts (deposits, etc.).. £17,417 £26,219 £55,907 £47,144
Freeholds, etc 29,999 26,163 65,303 40,756
Advances .. .. 43,611 75,149 88,314 116,004
Other assets .. .. 154 1,551 165 191
Debts, though they have increased nearly threefold, are
still comparatively small. Capital (which has been in-
creased during the past few years) is now £50,255 ; add
that to reserves, and the total shareholders’ funds are
£106,268, or more than twice the total debts. The de-
posits and other debts are therefore most amply pro-
tected, unless the assets are outrageously overvalued ;
and there isn’t any sign of that. The freeholds on hand
are not very extensive ; judging by the growth of the
advances (which mostly represent unpaid instalments of
purchase money) the co. has been getting rid of its pro-
perties very satisfactorily. Of course, there may be bad
debts in this lot. The security may slump, and be
thrown on to the co.’s hands; but there is apparently
some provision against this in addition to the visible
reserves. Anyhow, the advances are stated “after de-
ducting suspense account,” though what that account
amounts to isn’t disclosed. An erratic business is this of
buying land wholesale and selling it retail, and helping
the retail buyers to build. No disease seems more in-
fectious than building, and Sydney has had it lately. By-
and-bye it will, no doubt, ease off ; and then, though this
eo. won’t be able to sell much land, and may even have a
good deal of property thrown on its hands, it won’t, at
any rate, be harassed by a big liability to depositors. It
has done exceedingly well; and it has not rushed into
mammoth divs., but has, to all appearances, made very
good provision for the slack time.
* * • *
The Fourth Victoria Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne); —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £4,214 2 p.c. =£2022 £2192 £4,315
1900 .. 5,586 3„ ~ 3036 1550 £lOOO 5,315
1901 .. 6,865 4 ~ „ 3864 3001 8,316
1902 .. 11,402 5 „,, 4578 6824 15,140
1903 .. 12,811 6„ „ 5248 1046 6517 21,657
1904 .. 7,746 6 „ „ 4820 2926 24,583
1905 .. 7,640 6 ~ ~ 4542 208 2890 27,473
1906 .. 8,768 6„ ~ 4549 1061 3158 30,631
1907 .. 9,496 7,, ~ 5289 838 3369 34,000
1908 .. 10,711 7,, ~ 5332 5095 284 34,284
1909 .. 11,566 7„ „ 5392 3767 2407 36,691
It will be noticed that the amount written off during the
last couple of years is considerably more than usual.
Before that, the amounts came off a special reserve to
provide against losses on uncompleted contracts, and
were thus _ the poorest sort of writing-off: it merely
meant that in one year profits were over-estimated, and
the over-estimate was made good in subsequent years.
Something of this kind is still being done ; but something
better as well. In 1908 £4478 was written off the
society’s Collins-street freehold, and another £3OOO
comes off this year. This reduces the book value of
the premises to £37,000, which is £3OOO below what
they were valued at in 1894, when the boom-mess was
cleaned up, notwithstanding that about £6OOO has in the
meantime been spent upon them. Excellent progress
has been made also in clearing out the foreclosed proper-
ties, and only £10,369 worth of that wreckage now
remains on hand. Besides the money that has been got
in in this way, the deposits have largely increased ; and
so far the society doesn’t seem to have had much trouble
in letting the money out again. The following shows the
various movements :
1895. 1900. 1908. 1909.
£ £ £ £
Permanent Capital .. 35,606 72,741 72,741 72,741
Investing Capital.. .. 58,171 28,003 3,720 4,625
Deposits, etc 134,076 74,334 196,622 200,034
Advances 117,357 89,345 255,840 268,781
Foreclosed Properties .. 64,146 49,936 13,137 10,369
Other Freeholds .. .. 40,000 44,478 44,478 40,000
Interest earned p.c. on
average Assets .. .. 3/18/0 4/19/0 6/11/8 6/17/0
The figures are as at October 31 in each year, and, there-
fore, before the annual appropriations' are made. The
advances have increased 300 per cent, in nine years ; and
almost the whole of the money has come from "depositors.
In 1900, the shareholders’ £1 of capital had only to safe-
guard just about £1 of deposits and other borrowed
money ; now it has to safeguard about £2 18s. The risks
have therefore grown very much. Of course, nearly
everything depends upon the care with which the
advances have been made ; and except where a boom
bursts suddenly, money lent under building society con-
ditions of repayment should be unusually safe. Still, the
risks, judged merely by the size of the advances, have
increased so much that it will be satisfactory to see the
dividend kept moderate so that much stronger reserves
may be accumulated.
The Penshurst and District Butter and
Cheese Co. (Vic.): —
. Bonus Writ-
to Sup- ten Re-
Profits. Dividends, pliers. Off. serves.
Mar., ’O4 ..£44 10p.c. = £5B £B9 £3OO
Sept.,’o4 .. 56 Nil 44 312
Mar., ’O5 .. 663 10p.c. = 61 43 871
Sept.,’os ..89 5 „ „ 32 £306 45 577
Mar., ’O6 ..80 5 ~ ~ 32 122 44 459
Sept.,’o6 .. 63 Nil - 43 479
Loss.
Mar., ’O7 .. 87 Nil 43 349
Profit.
Sept.,’o7 .. 139 Nil 72 416
Mar., ’OB .. 300 Nil 177 539
Loss.
Sept.,'oB ..62 Nil 477
Profit.
Mar., ’O9 .. 105 Nil 69 513
Loss.
Sept.,’o9 .. 44 Nil 469
Not much of a record. Still the co. does its work if it cuts
out the unnecessary middleman’s profits and gives the pro-
ducers the full value of their product.
* * *
The clawing in Justice A’Beckett’s Court in
Melbourne between the Mutual Life and Citizens’ Co. and
the National Mutual had a curious ending. National
Mutual officials and agents had circulated some wild
remarks made by Randolph the Reckless about the
Citizens’; and the Citizens’, evidently thinking that the
Reckless didn’t have £20,000, asked the National Mutual
for that sized cheque. His Honor had no doubt about
the libel, and no doubt about its publication by the
National Mutual’s people. But when his Honor showed
that he was inclined to say that an agent wasn’t the co.,
and that even a district secretary wasn’t the co. either,
the National Mutual reckoned that that would never do,
and begged his Honor not to give it a verdict on that
ground. So his Honor said £7OO and Costs.
* * * *
Co-operative?societies run in all shapes. One
which works on lines of its own helps the South Coast
(N.S.W.) coal-miners to make their poor pay go a trifle
farther than it might if the society didn’t exist. As in
several other working-men’s societies, capital in this
Woonona Industrial Co-operative Society is withdraw-
able on giving notice. The things that are usually called
dividends are called interest; 5 per cent, is paid. Bonuses
on purchases are also paid, and the society calls them
dividends. These bonuses have lately been about 2s. to
2s. 2d. in the £ on members’ purcha-es ; on those of non-
members, about Is. When things were brisker, as much
as 2s. lOd. was paid. There is no such thing as a re-
serve fund. The full amount of the profit is
cut up every quarter. Not to have a reserve is
highly dangerous ; the only thing to be said in extenua-
tion of the plan is that apparently the stock and other
assets are written down severely. Still, it is most desir-
able that there should be a reserve, especially in view of the
fact that shareholders are entitled to withdraw all their
capital on short notice. As shareholders have that
right, it is plain that, in case a number of with-
drawals took place at once, there would have
to be a forced realisation, and in the absence
of a reserve fund the society might very easily find itself
unable to meet its obligations. The profits have lately
run to about £3500 per half-year—an excellent showing
seeing that the stock rarely exceeds £7OOO. As far as
possible business is done on a cash basis—cash in a
mining town meaning fortnightly'. One curious feature
of the concern is that four or five members are appointed
as “ stock-takers,” and their business is to practically
audit the stock and see, among other things, that it
isn’t over-valued.
» * » *
A fat cheque of £79,000 has been handed over
to the Australian Alliance by the London and Lancashire
Fire Co. to pay for the 39,500 shares which will give the
L. and L. a controlling interest in the Australian con-
cern. Besides getting the handling of the Alliance’s fire
business, the L. and L. will probably reap advantages in
other ways. Very likely the L. and L. has an incorrigible
habit of “treatying” much of its business, because
“ treatied ” business generally means a 25 or 30 per cent,
commission from the “ treaty ” co.; and no doubt the
business which the Australian Alliance has hitherto passed
on to other Australian cos. will now go to the L. and L.’s
foreign pals. The L. and L. also gets control of the Aus-
tralian Alliance life business ; but as the L. and L. does
not take life insurance, it is arranging to reinsure this
business with the National Mutual. And that will proba-
bly mean that the National Mutual will reciprocate by
giving some of its fire insurance on “ mortgage ” pro-
perties. to the L. and L. In fact, seeing that Colonel
Templeton (deceased) was both managing-director of the
N.M.L.A. and a director of the L. and L., it would not be
surprising if the N.M.L.A. has reciprocated already.
» ■* * *
Block 14, Broken Hill, looked in vain for what
the directors considered a promising show among the
outside mines of Broken Hill, and then fixed on some-
thing in Tasmania. The B. H. Prop, appears to have
greater faith in the Barrier field. It is now prospecting
the old Potosi, one of the early-day shows, and is pre-
paring to do similar work at the old Allendale and the
Pioneer. Both these shows were worked with good
prospecting results in the early days, but neither has
been tested to any depth.
* * * *
The only chance for most of the small shows
which have been pegged out north and south of the
Main Broken Hill mines seems to be that they will be
absorbed by one or other of the big cos. as the latter
begin to fear that the cupboard at home is getting
empty. Block 10 followed the example of the Broken
Hill. Prop, a couple of years ago, and took up the promis-
ing show at the other end of the line —the Rising Sun—
ostensibly for the sake of the water it contained. But it
was also sampled for its metal contents, and found to
contain a promising body of ore at the 500 ft. level. This
ore is mostly clean galena, and some hundreds of tons
which were dumped on the surface years ago have been
put through the Block 10 mill mixed with Block 10 ore.
The co. intends to exploit this body by stoping about
6ft. off the back of the drive on the 500 ft. level, and then
sinking the shaft. The ore in the Rising Sun always
looked better than that in the neighboring New White
Leads, and yet the latter kept steam up long after the
Rising Sun was a derelict.
* * # *
The Queen Bee, Cobar (N.S.W.), has closed
down. As the last fortnight’s run didn’t average 5 per
cent., the strike came in handy as an excuse. The
market realised that a closed mine may continue to cost
a lot of money, so shares got down to 35., the lowest
price for many a day.
* * * *
Now that scheelite is fetching a good price, Hill-
grove (N.S. W.)is becoming a livelier camp, and a few good
crushings from tributors’ blocks in the Eleanora and New
Hillgrove Prop, are making everyone feel better.
Tributors have been getting 3£oz. stone ; but, as it took
seven parties to raise 102 tons, nobody has made a
fortune. Baker’s Creek is still in the doldrums, and the
last return of 130 oz. from 110 tons sapped the confidence
of even those chirpy Adelaide operators who have traded
in Bakers for years past. What looked like good
crushings were taken out during the last half-
year, yet it finished £2007 to the bad, including
£1770 spent on development. But, as to that develop-
ment, a mine that cannot make enough profit out of
a level to replace its ore reserves by sinking and driving
is in a poor way. Baker’s Creek paid its last dividend on
Dec. 31, 1900, and the payment of £272,500 some time in
the last century doesn’t warrant a high market value.
A note of encouragement is that 100 ft. of “ payable ” reef
has been proved at No. 19 level, and there are also hopes
that something may be made out of parallel veins inter-
sected in the crosscut.
• * * «
The long-delayed mill of the Kyloe (N.S.W.)
has been given a trial run ; but as Kembla is not taking
ore, on account of the strike, it will not be kept at work.
Underground, things still look very well. The faces of
the north and south drives at the bottom level are now
692 ft. apart. In one end the lode is 18in. wide, and worth
10'6 per cent. ; in the other 9ft. (average for the last2oft.),
worth from Bto 9 per cent. It is a fine ore body that can
show values like that at two points 600 ft. apart.
The financial outcome of Lake View Consols
operations for the past year is a profit of £33,075 ; another
£4045 brought forward gives £37,120 to deal with. The
shilling dividend is maintained, and after making sundry
other allocations there remains £12,939 to carry forward.
During the year the co. parted with its big holding in
Golden Links, unloaded 10,000 Zinc pref. shares, which
it lias taken up at par, and reduced its holding in
Broken Hill South Blocks by 9550 shares. Instead of
crediting the proceeds to profit and loss, however, the
Mines Finance Account has been marked down from
£71,856 to £13,322; and this greatly reduced figure is
given as the book value of the following formidable array
of securities : 60,675 Broken Hill South Blocks ; £18,770
6*p.c. first mortgage debentures, £2s,ooosecond mortgage
debentures, 11,260 2s. ordinary, and 17,467 3s. pref. shares
in the Burma Mines; 500 £1 shares in Bukit Rubber;
11,100 £1 preference shares in Brixworth Ironstone;
£5OOO in Peruvian oil; and sundry other small interests.
In addition to this under-estimated wealth, the co. has
the following assets: Broken ore in stopes, £21,988;
sundry debtors, £17,131; investments (mostly in rail,
rubber and trust stocks), £61,868; loans, £84,284 ;
bullion, £10,156 ; and cash, £15,037. Seeing that £2795
covers all liabilities, shareholders aren’t likely to growl
at the financial position. The general-manager states
that on the whole the year’s development in the mine
itself was disappointing, and this is confirmed by the
fact that some 7000 tons more ore were treated
than were developed. Omitting the gold derived
from old residues, the recovery value of the grade
averaged 235. 6d. ; and costs (including development)
exceeded 21s. On the strength of a statement by the
Mines Water Trust that the Minister had certified the
mine to be a low-grade one, it has been getting its water
at 3s. 6d. per 1000 gallons, or Is. 6d. below the general
rate. This has been going on since October, 1906. But
the Minister has now repudiated the statement, and in
consequence the higher rate is being claimed as from
May 1, 1908; and an amount reserved (£2442) represents
the disputed arrears. The sum of £3230 has also been
set aside to meet a contingent liability in connection
with a claim for the alleged infringement of certain
patent rights in regard to the vacuum slimes treatment
plant. So the co., though it is Fat, has its troubles as
well as Peter Bowling.
* * * •
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.)is going in for strenu-
ous development. The shaft is being sunk from 1700 ft.
to 2000 ft., and a lot of other work is in full swung, in-
cluding the opening-up of some ore-bearing prize-packets
exposed in the long crosscut from the Ivanhoe South
Extended shaft at 2000 ft. General-Manager Sutherland
is conferring with the Board in London, and on his return
to Kalgoorlie in January the proposed additions to the
treatment plant will be put in hand, after which a bigger
tonnage and a lower milling-grade may be looked for.
The Hainault (W. A.) held its annual meeting
in Glasgow on October 25, when the chairman told share-
holders that a start had been made to accumulate funds,
and he hoped they might resume dividends in the near
future. He also opined that the ore now being developed
would average better than what they had been putting
through the mill, and generally his face beamed with
satisfaction at the outlook. Someone supported what
the chairman had said, and then a shareholder called
attention to the item “ Directors’ fees, £900,” which he
reckoned ran out at £lB per man per sitting. He sug-
gested that at least 50 per cent, should be taken off.
Another shareholder urged that the fees be reduced to
£5OO, with 2£ per cent, on the profits. But the chairman
came to the rescue of the Board, ruled the discussion out
of order and said that the speakers W'ere all wrong, any-
how. After which he declared the accounts adopted, arid
shareholders went away not much w'iser than when they
arrived.
* * * •
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) has added the Moun-
tain Queen at Southern Cross to its list of possessions.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
Specially constituted
to ad as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power Agents, etc.
Economical and
Efficient Management.
Absolute Security.
2, 4, (Si 6 Spring' Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager,
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgrosrlie.
[3
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
£ amsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The property has been under option for the past five
months for £30,000, but has been secured at a reduced
figure. According to the local paper, it is one of the
biggest propositions” in the West, but local papers have
the habit of saying that about so many shows. Doolette
and Son are also on the lookout for mines in this district,
and have just taken a £55,000 cash-and-shares option on
the Corinthian group to go on with.
* * * *
Matters have now been pretty well fixed up
between the Oroya-Brown Hill, the Golden Links, and
the Kalgoorlie Amalgamated (W.A.). The Links nomi-
nally does the absorbing; but there is no difference be-
tween its cut and the Oroya’s. The shares in the new co.
will be parcelled out this wayOroya'-Brown Hill,
500,000 ; Amalgamated, 150,000; Links, 500,000 ; in re-
serve, 100,000. The Oroya-Brow-n Hill will throw in its
agreement with the Central and West Boulder Co., but
hangs on to its tailings heaps, and the use of its shine
plant. Working capital of about £36,200 will be provided
as follows:—O.-B.H., £15,000; Links, £15,000; and
Amalgamated, £6200. 8., M. and Co. have carried
through the bargaining, and will no doubt still stay on
the bridge.
* • * *
There are not any visible flies in Ivanhoes
ointment (W.A.). All the lower levels are looking
splendid, and in the two bottom ones big widths of ore,
worth from 48s. to 78s. per ton, are being developed.
Chairman Govett talks of paying another visit to the
mine early in 1910.
* * * *
Boulder Main Reef (W.A.) is now having its
say on the subject of amalgamation with Chaffers.
About six weeks ago the Board of Chaffers offered to give
Reef holders 110,000 shares in a co. of 750,000 shaies ; but
the directors of the latter co. wanted 130,000 shares, and
as the parties couldn’t come together negotiations lapsed.
Since then developments at the No. 4 level have shown
the new shoot in the Chaffers’ lease to have slid into
some unknown place, and in view of this the Main Reef
people now demand at least a third share in any new co.
that maybe formed. Chaffers has very little plant, no
mill, over £30,000 cash, and about 30,000 tons of ore in sight.
On the other hand, the Reef has a deep shaft, a good
winding engine, a passable mill, about 15,000 tons of ore
reserves, practically no money, and a mortgage of two
or three thousand pounds. It is claimed by the Reef
crowd that, although Chaffers has valuable ore bodies at
from 1700 ft. downward in the old main workings, it
could not sink a shaft deep enough to give them reason-
able ore reserves and erect a suitable treatment plant for
less than £lOO,OOO, whereas the absorption of the Main
Reef mill and mine as a going concern would, it is
argued, result in a great saving to the co. Naturally,
the best terms possible are desired by both sides ; but,
all the same, an amalgamation should be effected some-
how. Scientific and economic mining demands it.
*****
Associated Northern (W.A.) has decided not to
complete its option on the Forest Belle lease at Mount
Ida. The area is too small and the gold in sight too
little for the price demanded, the co. says.
* * * I*
Esperanza Westralia, Ltd., a notorious wild
cat, has just been hauled before the London courts to
show cause why it should not be compulsorily put in a
bag and drowned. The accused was, however, dis-
charged, though the Judge wasn’t sure that the assets
(mortgaged) would realise enough to pay the debts. As
with its forefathers —the Perseverance Mines, Ltd., and
Sherlaw-Webster’s Gold Mining Co.—reconstruction and
amalgamations have proved of no avail, and the concern
hasn’t the slightest excuse for keeping alive.
* • * *
Cue (W. A.), “ the capital of the Murchison,’’
loudly advertises that in November nearly 30,0000 z. went
away from its vicinity. Considering that the Murchison
includes Day Dawn, in which the Great Fingall still plods
on ; also Cuddingwarra, Tuekanarra, Meekatharra and
a dozen other “arras,” this 30,0000 z. is not very much to
boast about; for there are over 1200 head of stamps, and
rich dabs are always saved up for Christmas-puddings.
The best thing the Murchison has shown up to date is the
Great Fingall, primarily engineered by the W. R. Wilson-
Horn crowd. It nearly ruined W.R., but made the for-
tunes of a lot of boodlers in London. A few Westralians
did well, too ; one man, who delivered bags of flour and
cases of whisky when Day Dawn was the Four Mile,
bought in heavily at half-a-crown and sold at £l2. Had
W. R. Wilson lived a little longer he would have been
a millionaire and a bit over. As for Cue itself,
there is a spark of hope left. The Bight of Asia,
a couple of miles to the north, has a big lode,
worth about lOdvvt., and yet for more than 15
years it has been only trifled with. There are other
shows which yield up to an ounce ; but when more than
three or four men are put on, the mines seem to be over-
manned. The Princess Royal has just cleaned up 1300 oz.
from 850 tons. This mine was so little thought of that
the shareholders wouldn’t pay a contractor for sinking
a shaft, so it fell into the hands of a small Perth
syndicate.
* * » *
8., M. and Co. have turned their attention to
the Mainland and Island, Lake Austin (W.A.). In the
early days of the Murchison, gold was thick on the sur-
face, and dry-blowers had a great time. But at depth
the metal vanished. Since then wild turkeys and kan-
garoos have been in possession ; but there is now a
chance of more prospecting along the shores of the vast
silted-up salt lake, at one time an inland ocean,
which now furnishes mirages more beautiful than any-
thing painted by Turner. Dredging might be worth a
trial both at Lake Austin and Nannine—where Bayley
made his first rise.
» * *
Barrambie Ranges (W.A.) has almost reached
the end of its ore resources, and all the beating of drums
and blowing of horns in Melbourne will not make it
different. The stone has been worked to the ends, and
the mine shows nothing beyond. The winze below the
200 ft. level, which was to have given a new fillip to the
shares, has given nothing of value ; and, unless things
change completely, the mill will soon cease from chatter-
ing. A suggestion has been made, to save the face of
those who have talked big about ore reserves, that the
co. should apply for exemption instead of making a call;
but the local miner, who has seen how the show has been
worked for the benefit of Melbourne, prepares to protest
against this. Lately the co. has taken to sifting the old
dump where a few specks of ore were seen. So far, even
this has failed, and the position of affairs is beginning to
look desperate.
* * * »
Intimation has just been sent to shareholders
in the Orion (W.A.) that the revenue for the year ended
June amounted to something under £16,000; and, after
writing something off for wear and tear, the profit and
loss account showed a credit balance of £2461. The in-
crease of the capital to £40,000 by the issue of 100,000
shares of 2s. each, which was approved by shareholders
on June 8, was duly made ; 50,000 of the shares, which
carry an option on the remaining 50,000, were offered to
the shareholders, and the lot have since been taken up.
Mt. Morgan (Q.) values last month’s production
at £90,500, of which £63,250 stands for gold and £27,250
for copper. That is, 545 tons of copper were produced,
but it is taken into account at only £5O per ton. Thus
does the leviathan pave the way for better things in the
way of dividends. The future to some extent hangs on
the development of the Many Peaks, which is going along
very slowly, partly as a consequence of unexpected delays
in railway construction. Mt. Morgan expects eventually
to make" a small profit out of its iron flux, instead of
having to pay a high price for ore from Iron Island. On
the Peaks ore there will be mining and railage to pay, and
also a royalty of 2s. 6d. per ton ; but even then the metals
contained in’the fluxing ore are expected to leave some-
thing to the good.
* * * *
The most enlivening Charters Towers’ news is
that the Brilliant Freehold has at last sprung its ex-
pected maiden dividend of Is. per share (£7500), payable
on December 23. Mills’ United pays its £15,000 on the
same day. But the Freehold div. was discounted, and
there is now very little buying. Mills’ has some payable
stone left; also a wider mining area in consequence
of the settlement of freeholders’ claims. Though some
good stone is being mined below No. 10, reports about
the intervening levels, down to No. 14, are not very good.
Bonnie Dundee has sent a trial lot of stone to the mill
from the east level, driven from No. 4 hanging-wall reef.
Prospects at the end of the main levels are disappointing.
* * * *
Just when it could least stand the shock,
Gympie (Q.) has been set upon by a litter of wild cats.
One of them, unloosed in England, was such a venomous
beast that the State Government felt called upon to rush
out with an axe. In consequence of hifalutin reports in
various unfinancial and other papers in London, the
Government geologist was sent up to the alleged
mine and made a report. The concern called itself mag-
nificently the Gold Reefs Exploration Co. ; and this was
the little pill that the Government geologist sent its way :
“ No plant in course of erection at the mine ; chairman’s
estimate of 2oz. gold per ton not warranted by past
crushings ; no stone of consequence has been crushed
since 1900 ; no ore reserves developed; no working in
mine since 1902 until August this year, when only five
men employed ; up to date of geologist’s visit no stone of
any value met with since work started by present com-
pany ; chairman’s estimates of profits absolutely not war-
ranted ; mine is not equipped for economical working;
no winding engine ; main shaft full of water; old adit and
underlay fallen in ; battery out of repair; mine 40 miles
distant from Gympie; no geological similarity to
Gympie.” After which one wild cat will surely feel as
though it had picked up a bait somewhere.
• * * *
O. K. Copper Co. (N.Q.), which closed down
owing to a strike, doesn’t propose to start the furnace
again for a while ; it will stick to very much needed-
prospecting and development work. As the old grade of
ore can’t be maintained, the directors are thinking over a
proposal to put up a bigger furnace to handle the poorer
stuff. The men came out of the late strike with a shilling
extra for wet ground, and better terms for contracting.
* * * *
Shareholders in the Mitchell River gold and
antimony show (N.Q.) will shortly hear of a resurrection
scheme. The money put up has been to a great extent
wasted, and the co. is in debt. A preference issue will
probably be tried.
■to***
Vulcan (N.Q.) crushed 780 tons of stone for 40
tons of tin concentrates, valued as £2630. This monthly
return has put more life into development work. The
1400 ft. level has only been driven a short distance, and
values have been irregular and bunchy. Fortunately
there appears to be a fair-sized ore body to operate on at
the 1050 ft. level. Some driving has been done also at
900 ft. to pick up the western ore body. Generally speak-
ing, prospects are brighter.
* * * *
Chillagoe is now speculating in Renard road-
trains, to run from the end of the Etheridge railway to
the wilderness of Perc.vville, Gilberton, etc.
• • * *
The Lawn Hills field (Queensland) is not to
vitalise the Gulf yet awhile ; for the syndicate, u'hich has
now forfeited two deposits of £5OOO to Bananaland, is in
liquidation. It is generally supposed that the investi-
gating engineers were against the railway project.
North Queensland has a new co., for registered
lately was John Moffatt and Co., with a capital of £280,000
in £1 shares. Presumably the public hasn’t handled
much of the scrip—yet. The assets consist of a mill and
tin-smelting plant at Irvinebank, some outside mills
(which have a hard row to hoe to obtain stone just now),
a variety of tin shows, interests in things like Mt. Molloy,
some tramways (not very profitable at present), and some
coal at Mt. Mulligan, etc.
* » * *
It seems as though the prolific Walsh and
Tinaroo district (N.Q.) is going to add another one to
its list of minerals. About half way between Mareeba
and Chillagoe, and adjacent to the railway, are what are
called the Pinnacles, over which * inspectors have been
falling for the last 10 or 20 years. Now it is said that
these Pinnacles are mostly alum. Samples have been sent
away for examination, and meanwhile Nicholas, general
manager at Stannary Hills, has taken up a big slice of the
country. „ , ,
Macgregor, Cloncurry (Q. ), is preparing to ex-
plore the oxidised zone in the shallow ground from No.
1 shaft, and is also introducing a boring plant to get
some idea of what the mine is like at deeper levels. The
money has been dwindling away at the rate of £l4OO per
month. Opening a copper mine that isn’t exceptionally
rich is an expensive business in the backblocks, and in
this instance wet and heavy ground has also'raced avvay
with the money. The deepest level at 320 ft. has been
opened by a western crosscut 290 ft. long, in which three
seams of ore of moderate value have been prospected.
The brightest spot at present is in the south drive, which
is out issft., and has sft. of 6 per cent, ore in the face.
There may be 64,000 tons of 8 per cent, ore proved, but
the mine is in no shape yet for a smelting campaign.
Fluxing ore may be got from the Wallaroo mine (which
belongs to the Macgregor), but this show is just as much
in need of development as the Macgregor.
* * * *
“X.P.D.” : If some peopledowhnttheysay they
are going to do, the long-neglected Hodgkinson (N.Q.) is to
be given another chance. Dr. Jack reported glowingly on it
in the ’eighties, but Queensland mining folk, ever keen
on the scent of the wild cat in the wilderness,
read calmly and passed on to more distant places. Now
mining-man Bowler comes from the south on behalf, it is
said, of a syndicate, inspects some of the mines, and buys
one—the Tyrconnel—right out. Bowler doesn’t think
much of previous methods ; in one place the props are,
he says, in a reef from 2ft. to 14ft. wide, though evi-
dently the party didn’t know it. The reef goes from
9dwt. up to 30z., and Keating, the last previous owner of
the show, took out 472 tons for 6170 z. The mine was
worked to over 400 ft. in the early days, and about
£55,000 worth of gold has been pulled out of it altogether.
Bowler also speaks well of the Cecil, which the Clarke
syndicate has been bogging away at intermittently for
some years on a hand-to-mouth system.
Central Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.), wanted fresh
capital a while ago ; so it put 10,000 reserve shares under
offer at 12s. each to an Adelaide crowd. The latter did
not catch on when prices slumped, and forfeited £lOO.
Lately shareholders were asked to subscribe for the shares
at 75." The market forthwith sized up the situation, and
beat prices below that figure. To save the skins of the
tenderers, the Board declined to accept any offers sent
in. Whv? Applicants did not tender in ignorance of the
price wanted; so they should have got the scrip, no
matter how the market went. Supposing shares had
jumped to 125., would the Board have held the scrip
back or allotted it ? No one knows what number of
shares were applied for. Rumor says 500 ; but the Board
says Rumor isn’t getting any more truthful in her old age.
Meantime the man in the street is wondering why boring
at the Central is no faster than shaft-sinking at the Langi
Logan. Henry Dodd, of the Oathcart, still worries the
Central, and the Central cannot yap back effectively,
because it has been going so slow that it only has a line
of bores to save its face with.
• * * *
Bendigo feels uneasy because it sees calls un-
paid and the deep mines establishing themselves as merely
sinks for money and unhealthy traps for the miner. The
glamor of Geology Dunn’s “illimitable resources” is pass-
ing away. Folk who boomed shares—Johnsons, Cathe-
rines, New Argus and such like—now know that hard
work alone drives the pick, and that only the pick earns
dividends. Then the stories about gold-stealing have
helped to frighten away timid birds who didn’t mind pay-
ing calls if they thought they got all the gold, but
flew off directly the gold-stealing scarecrow was
raised. Also young Lansell and Kelly are on their
way back from London without anyone having heard
that their pockets are filled with J. Bull’s sovs. If
the back-numbers they took to England are not to be
backed by Bull’s oof, then Bendigo money will have to
be forthcoming. This brings things back to the point
urged by The Bulletin again and again—that the field
has to look to the shallow ground or the side-lines rather
than to deep sinking. Rankin and others are on the
right tack with their prospecting co., but they have to
keep it clear of the Beehive crowd and quit whimpering
whenever someone says that the depression is due to the
evil of gold-stealing.
* * * *
New Kohinoor, Ballarat, is ending up the year
a bit differently to what it began. Cornish mining talent
had it in charge for long ages past. But John Trethowan
and the Pearces at last got tired of carrying nearly 40,000
shares, so they gave V. J. Saddler and other Melbourne
mining “ toffs’” the chance to come in. These have set
to work beyond the big crosscourse, and, instead of
blindly punching on the west, called in mining skill,
which told them to strike out east. Now leaders are
making, and it is thought that the long-lost Consols lode
may be out that way. The unluckiest man of the party
isJ. H. Dill, the legal manager. He gets a solatium of
£25 for the loss of his co. ; but Ballarat deplores that
Dill should have to pass his job on to a Melbourne
manager just when things look like mending.
What King O’Malley calls “the vocal bloom
of sufficing oratory ” is being heard at ltutherglen (Vic.)
over the shut-up of the Prentice and Southern. Things
have gone too far now for the State to set the pumps
going, though a slab of its security lies in the assets
underground. The question has been put whether some
of the plant at the surface wasn’t leased. Rutherglen has
two big mines left and one stringer, all on the alluvial
side, while it has a couple of promising prospects in quartz.
These are all that remain of a big industry. Chiltern Valley
last quarter yielded 22240 z. and Great Southern 26430 z.
On such yields working expenses have been pretty well
met, even if a profit has not been earned. Prentice and
Southern beats them with 27430 z., but is shut up, despite
preliminarv heavy outlay on dead work. Is it the water
that makes all the difference ? If so there will have to be
more palavering over the mines above the Prentice shaft.
Quartz mining, with the Chiltern Bar, yields an occa-
sional dividend: but the right crowd is not in to push
the mines, so development is as slow as an alderman’s
funeral.
In the rake-up for mines in Victoria someone
wants a certificate for the quartz claims out Moyston
way, near Ararat. This can be given by Hans Irvine,
who made a hit by treating the old tailings. Mining at
Moyston flickered out suddenly because the water got
heavy, the reefs got narrow, and the gold contents fell
off, and because those who did the mining were not a
provident lot. That is not saying that there isn’t a
chance there. But it is asserting that good plants will
be needed, and a fair splash of cash to make any impres-
sion on either mines or market.
Mount Balfour Copper Co. (Tas.) is out with a
reconstruction scheme. There is a big capital—£lsl,ooo
cut up into £lO shares. Of the 15,100 shares, 5000 go to
reserve. Then 2500 pass to the original vendors of the
lease. Thus half of the shares are disposed of. Then
4000 paids (£40,000) are wafted free to Langford’s syndi-
cate, plus 3600 shares fully paid, on payment of £2 per share
on these 3600. So each holder of one £lO share in the
syndicate gets 19 £lO shares, or £l9O for £2 cash. Mag-
nificent! The best way to appreciate this is to take
totals : £lOl,OOO is represented by the scrip to be issued ;
but of that only £BOOO is real, and this alone
goes to the credit of working account. What a glorious
invention is the printing press ! The funny part of it is
that the market for vendors’ scrip is tied up by Stock
Exchange rules for six months, so that 3600 shares will
represent all the moving pawns that can be placed on the
board. When the co. goes mining, the £BOOO will vanish
like a flash.
■****
Mount Lyell (Tas. ), for its last month, sent out
rather a poor return—s 44 tons copper, 46760 z. silver and
11450 z. gold from 28,806 tons ore. It is seldom that the
average falls below 2 per cent., but this time the furnaces
required nearly 63 tons of ore to make a ton of copper.
And gold and silver values were also low. The explana-
tion is that the best stopes and benches of ore have been
heavily drawn upon for some time past. Valuing Mount
Lyell’s copper at £5O, which is the fashion at another big
mifte; the ore only averaged a shade over 265. per ton.
That, of course, leaves a comfortable margin, for w’orking
costs are 15s. 6d.
* n * *
Though the references to the Irrawaddy option
w'ere tacked on to the last-published Tongkah report,
Tiie Bulletin is assured that the Tongkah Co. has
nothing to do with it. The Bulletin’s idea was that, if
the co. was looking for another property, only one con-
clusion could be come to regarding the Tongkah. But it
evidently isn’t looking-for another property. *
Tongkah Compound, the Tasmanian-Melbourne
syndicate which holds rights over a slice of good tin
country at the head of Tongkah Harbor, isn’t apparently
going to amalgamate with the bigger co., though there
has been a lot of chatting between the two Boards. The
new idea is to form a co. in 55,000 shares —44,000 to the
public, 2500 available for present shareholders (who will
get a bonus share for each share applied for), and 6000
for the underwriters. No cash payment to the present
syndicate (in 1000 shares) is proposed, but £22,500 of the
profits will first come their way. Assuming the shares are
worth £1 and the £22,500 of profit is available, this would
make the present shares worth £25. But so many esti-
mates made in connection with these Siamese tin con-
cessions have gone wrong that the market won’t at
present come half way up to the £25.
George Meudell and his expert mate, dredger
Brown, have been to Siam and captured four tin options,
covering 2270 acres, for his Malay and Siam Syndicate ;
also a “commercial concern.” G.D. always gets quick
off the mark. He isn’t waiting, like Cecil Rae or the
Apostle James, to bore in detail. Booms burst, and G.D.
knows it.
* * * *
Opalton, in the Winton district (West Queens-
land), is very ill these times. Over 900 men fossicked
and raked there a few' years ago ; but countless heaps of
mullock and one solitary miner are all that remain. The
other day, however, a party struck a, good patch six
miles away in new ground. The specimens included some
pinfire, flash and boulder opal. Unfortunately it is in
country where water is almost as scarce as polar bears,
■* * * *
The Treadwell (South-Eastern Alaska) is the
w'orld’s champion low-grade gold mine. It is a huge
mountain of ore, worked eight months with water and
four months with oil. Twelve hundred stampers are at
w’ork and 1300 men—mostly Slavs and Huns. It is said
that three men a week lose their lives there. The
value of the ore is about 10s. 6d. a ton, and costs (ex-
cluding funerals) run to 6s.
Troubled :: You’d better look up the last notices
of the cos..— Bulletin 18/S/’09,.25/2/’o9„and 17/12/’OB.
* » * »
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines,, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
* * * *
Jodelite Wood Preservative, for preserving
timber against White Ants, Dry Rot, Fungus, Teredos,
ravages of rats,, damp walls,.etc. Used by all Australian
Governments. 1250 galls, supplied S.A. Government
in one order in September. Agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,, Sydney ;; also Melbourne and
Brisbane.*
* * * *
In the Supreme Court of New South Wales, iii
Equity, a suit lately brought by Bell’s Asbestos Co. Ltd.,
of 315 Kent Street, Sydney, against Perdriau Rubber Co.
Ltd. for infringement of trade mark and selling engine
packing as “ Dagger,” not of the plaintiff company’s
manufacture, has been settled upon terms agreed upon
between the parties, the defendant company acknowledg-
ing the plaintiff company’s right to the exclusive use of
the device and the word “ Dagger” in connection with
engine packing, and consenting to a perpetual injunction
against the use by the defendant company of such device
and word, and paying the plaintiff company’s cost of. suit. *
*■ * * *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling hand or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [1
» * * *
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and
mada by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only genuine,
reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers' name, obtain from Sole Importers,
James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, who
carry large stocks, guaranteeing quality.* [4
* * * *
If coal and other mining companies, railway
contractors and users generally are desirous of purchas-
ing explosives at competitive figures, we should strongly
advise them to enquire into the unique and thoroughly
original terms and conditions offered by the Cape
Explosives Works Ltd., whose agents, Noyes Bros.
(Sydney) Ltd. , 109 Pitt Street, will be glad to give them
full particulars on request. A mail card request will cost
you one penny ; the saving to be effected is illimitable.*
•K * * *
The Financial Times, London, in its issue of
9/10/’08; comments as follows upon the last report of The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited:—“We
cannot withhold admiration for the energy which in
twelve months can secure proposals for more than a
million and three-quarters, and issue 4853 policies for
£1,278,000. However vigorous the driving may be, such
a result could not be attained if the Society did not offer
what many people want.”*.
,» * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* » * *
Refractory Mines.—Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, ,\yho are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
•»■***
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * *
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.—Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now' taken over the sole agency in N.S.W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbk.ro and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * * *
The great value of suction gas as a form of
motive power has been well demonstrated since coal
became so scarce. A suction gas plant can be run on
charcoal or coke fuel, and is both economical and reliable.
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128
William Street, Melbourne, as Sole Agents for the Ruston
Suction Gas Plant, carry various sizes in stock ready for
immediate delivery.*


PETER F.
HEERING’S
Cherry BRANDY
acknowledged by all /)
THE BEST.
WHEN GREY HAIRS COME
It does not necessarily follow that you are getting
old. What it does indicate is that some scalp disease
is existent, sapping away the substance that nourishes
and keeps the hair luxuriant and naturally colored. To
restore that desirable look of youth you should consult
Mrs. Cowling, of the Hygeia Institute, whose systematic
study of and practice in scalp diseases fits her to success-
fully treat your trouble. She treats each case individu-
ally, diagnosing the disease before attempting to apply a
remedy. If no cure can be effected she frankly says so,
and charges nothing for the consultation.
Patients may see Mrs. Cowling at her rooms ; hut if
you cannot call, write, and prompt attention will he
given your letter —Dept. B, Hygeia Institute, Ocean
House, opp. Government Savings Bank, Moore Street,
Sydney. Free consultations are given every afternoon
but Saturday between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesday
e'-ening, by appointment, from 6 to 7. Her Telephone
No. is City 608. _
u
a
The Calendars we are send-
ing out this year are, if anything,
more artistic and dainty than any
we have previously sent out.
The tear-offs are arranged
so as to allow for making short
notes of anything you wish to
remember on each date, and the
Pictures are charming copies of
Works of Art—two from the
Sydney National Gallery (“Their
Ever Shifting Home” and
“ Bidford Sands”) and another
from the Melbourne National
Gallery (“The F : -st Cloud”).
We shall continue to send
them out to for free
distribution to cu.tom.’rs until
our supply is exhausted.
Ask your Grocer to save
one for you, because we think
they will go quickly this year.
The “ROBUR” Tea Co
James Service & Co.,
Proprietors.
P.S.—As regards “Robur”
Tea for “High-class” family
everyday use, we recommend the
No. 1 Grade—it has a delightful
flavour, and is very saving.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 14, 1909.
My Dear Arini,—
Our society cake is dough on both sides.
The strike has stricken it flat just as it was
beginning to rise beautifully in the early summer
temperature. The only industry that flourishes
is that of lamp and primus-stove making. The
manufacturers are working day and night to
supply the demand. This is likewise a good
time to cultivate the acquaintance of relatives
in the candle-making industry. They will
certainly run a thousand-guinea motor-car,
and the girls need not ask the price of next season’s
confections, but just order them to be delivered,
six at a time. Whilst the strike lasts I shall feel
as if I were writing to you with my feet—and
club ones at that. The shops are empty, for
everyone is afraid to spend money except for abso-
lute necessaries ; the theatres are nearly empty ;
private entertaining is not in sight; and several
good hostels, the country resorts of the summer
Sydneysider, are closed. Last week I returned
from a week’s stay at a hotel on the Southern line.
The only other guests were a dismal-looking
bridal couple. Yet 17 rooms had been booked for
that week, and cancelled as soon as the strike was
proclaimed.
I went to Victoria Park Racecourse last Satur-
day afternoon to view what the dailies persist in
miscalling an “attempt” at flying on the part of
aviator Colin Defries. The word “ attempt ”is a
lamentable misnomer in this connection. If an
aviator decides to fly, he just adjusts his contrap-
tion, starts his engine, and flies. The process is
as inevitably automatic as that of falling off a
highly-greased log which has been tilted to an
angle of 45 degrees. The trouble is that,
if weather conditions are unfavorable, the aero-
plane shortly afterwards capsizes, and slays
or maims all aboard, besides anyone who may be
below at the time the trouble occurs. Last Satur-
day a north-easter howled across the more or less
blasted heath whereon the moan of the defeated
punter has so often mingled with the joyously
triumphant howl of Israel, what time some well-
backed “ stiff ’un ” rolled home an easy last. And
so there was no flight. The propellers were started
and the aeroplane fled along the earth’s surface,
but that was all. If only because he is a just-
married man Mr. Defries is debarred from soaring
in a gale. And, anyhow, if he did, he or his
executors would almost certainly be proceeded
against by the Inspector of Nuisances appertain-
ing to that bailiwick into which he first
happened to crash. Mrs. Defries is slight,
pretty and dark. She drove her husband’s
motor-car about the course during the afternoon
with the ease of a practised chauffeur. Most of
the motorists of to-day (who are the aeroplanists
of to-morrow) were there expectant of a sight that
is brand-new to these parts; but they left in a
disappointed state. A sound tip seems to be to
shun aviation displays unless there is a dead
calm raging.
Report and appearance promise that we shall
feel indebted to New York for loaning us a charm-
ing artiste—Miss Katherine Grey. The promise
is to be fulfilled (or otherwise) in January,
when Miss Grey opens here with the Julius
Knight company. Probably it will be in Bernard
Shaw’s “Arms and the Man.” Miss Grey has
had experience in Shawian dramas and in some
of the emotional pieces in which Miss Anglin ap-
peared here. She comes with a distinguished
reputation as an emotional actress, a reputation
considerable enough to warrant her having started
a theatre of her own. “With disastrous result,”
shesmiles, and shows dimples that are very valuable
assets on or off the stage. Arms and the Man
forsooth ! Dimples, combined with good teeth and
an expressive mobile mouth would make the man
lay down his arms. Lay down his weapons and
hold out his arms. Then there would be no play.
Dark hair the newcomer has; and fine eyes—
either slate-color or hazel, with that peculiar ex-
pression of infantile unknowingness or inno-
cence that short-sighted eyes often possess—
guarded by rimless pince-nez. She is a young
woman, somewhat above the middle height,
slight in build, with a quiet manner and a
literary mind. As with Miss Anglin, there is
nothing suggestive of the stage about the dress,
complexion or manner of our Californian visitor.
She speaks with affection and admiration of
Kyrle Bellew, with whom she was recently playing
in “The Thief.” With Cuyler Hastings Miss
Grey was quite lately associated in a most power-
ful three-act play, “The First Born.” She
mentions that one of the best known and most
distinguished actresses in America came origin-
ally from Sydney. Miss Agnes Perry she was,
but is better known as Agnes Booth. She has
retired from the stage. Miss Grey’s decision to
come hither was somewhat sudden ; but w'hen
it was made she put out eager feelers seek-
ing Australian information. Our recent visitor,
Charles Waldron, assisted to educate her up to us,
and when she got to Brisbane my colleague,
“ Mario,” gave her a volume of “Bush Ballads,”
which she has read, for she can quote from the
same. Before she starts her season the new-
comer will probably put in a few weeks Blue
Mountain-wards. By that time she will be quite
liberally-educated, and will think the kookaburra
superior to the eagle.
Miss Elsie Anderson, who was as beautiful a
girl in her own tall, slim Blessed Damozel-like
style as Australia owned, married Mr. Evelyn
Beerbohm in London a week ago. The romance
was of long standing. They met four years back
in England. Then she returned to Sydney.
The swain followed. As he was unable
to deposit at her feet even so much as
the cottage which is commonly accepted as
the irreducible minimum in the way of offerings
to a civilised bride, he went back to London and
sought work. He found it on the stage, and at
the first attempt scored a decisive success in the
sort of part whereof Weedon Grossraith has
hitherto held a monopoly. Since then he has not
looked back. He comes of a theatrical family.
His father was a brother of the recently beknighted
Beerbohm Tree and half-brother of Max
Beerbohm, essayist and Saturday Review-cf.
Miss Anderson is the eldest daughter of Orient
liner David Anderson, who arrived here on the
Otway last week. Mrs. Anderson and the two
unmarried daughters of the family follow on in a
few weeks.
The marriage of Chief Secretary W. H. Wood
and Mrs. Telford Mackenzie Young' has been fixed
for the coming Saturday. They had arranged to
honeymoon in Maoriland, but the strike-dis-
jointed time is not opportune for public men to
go far afield from their consultation rooms.
Miss Emma Sussmilch, of the beautiful voice,
became Mrs. Allard last week. It was the quietest
of weddings, and the Voice breathed no louder
than the grass grows. The bridegroom is head of
a firm of accountants, a widower, with some
biggish children and considerable means, and for
the rest he has married the greatest favorite in
Sydney musical grooves.
News comes of the marriage, at Colombo, of
Miss Eily Fesq, the only chick of Mr. “Willy”
Fesq, to Captain Adler, of the Indian army.
Miss Eesq left Sydney some months ago, under
her mother’s wing, to meet her fiance.
Mrs. “Ted” Simpson has left England, where
she was on a visit to her sister, Mrs. Dalgleish
Bellasis, in order to make contact with these
shores in time for the marriage of her daughter
with Mr. Archie Rankin. Both parties to this
alliance are uncompromising Roman Catholics,
wherefore the ceremony will beone of thef ew society
affairs of late to occur under the aegis of the church
which Dr. Dill lives to scarify. They are to set
up housekeeping in Newcastle (where the prospec-
tive groom pursues Costs), but propose later on to
settle down in Sydney.
Mr. Frank Coffee is back from his manyth trip
to his native America. It is still at work, but
more so than when Foster Fraser wrote his book.
To listen to the domiciled American’s cataract of
narrative gives the sensation of falling from the
top of a flat-iron building. America is in a
greater hurry than ever, and the best one
can do is to catch an item here and there
by its fetlock as it races past in speech. Mr.
Coffee ran across a few Australians in New
York, all doing well. Contralto Eva Mylott sings
at a Congregational church on Sundays and at a
synagogue on Saturdays, and with private en-
gagements earns all sorts of money. She is, and
she also looks, a most prosperous young party, and
has done some successful touring. Both the Cong,
and ’Brew flocks are always glad to have her
back again. She is for ever studying, she says,
and frequently pays two guineas a lesson to some
haughty signor to make her voice more of a gilt-
edged security.
The Jews and the Irish, Mr. Coffee concludes,
own America. They certainly seem to run New
York. The Italians do the digging and haul-
ing, and are the feet and hands of that hurried
city. Probably this is a chestnut : A priest,
riding by excavation works, saw one of his
parishioners digging, with Italians all around,
and a Lucentio Polenta ganger directing the job.
“Good morning, Pat,” said the priest with some
irony ; “ and how do you like your Italian boss ?”
“Fine, your reverence. How do you like yours?”
Discussing the near future of Australia with
many men of affairs, the returned wanderer found
them singularly unanimous in their belief that
Australia’s peril is German. Hochderkaiserland
wants somewhere to send the little Wilhelmjsand
Gretchens, who keep the storks busy by arriving
at the rate of two millions a year. Australia would
do very well for the expansion, and Australia, the
Americans sav, will be the indemnity demanded
if the German eagle puts the British lion out of
commission in a war. The theory is not new, of
course; but its reiteration is particularly cheering
just at this juncture when we expect our gas to be
cut off and our steamers to stop tripping.
The beautiful Miss Irene Marks is returning to
Sydney shortly. She has been laid up for
months with an old knee-trouble, but is now con-
valescent.
A Sydney girl, who returned from foreign parts
by way of America, talks of a New York hotel
You don’t appreciate the moderation of Australia’s
leading hotels until you have an experience of the
Waldorf-Astoria in New York. First morning of my stay
in that hostel I rang for my morning tea. lam as keen
on this rite as I am weak on breakfast ; and after learn-
ing that morning tea was a dollar I fancied I need not
even make my usual pretence of breakfasting. A man
brought the outfit on a table. A beautiful silver teapot,
a small cup and saucer of valuable china, cream, sugar, a
couple of thick, unattractive slices of bread and a piece
of butter. The tablecloth was of the finest linen and lace,
the silver was the real metal. There was one small cup
of pale straw-colored fluid in the valuable teapot. I
stirred it. I put in a lump of sugar to coax it to draw.
Then I,counted the tea leaves, and, sadly convinced by
their fewness that they had done their best, I poured the
“ tea ” into my valuable china cup and drank it. I loathe
cream and would have been glad of milk, but
plain milk would not have matched the rich table
appointments. I would have liked a little delicately-
cut bread and butter; but, of course, anything
so “ cheap ” as bread and butter would not merit delicate
treatment from a Waldorf-Astorian menial. One dollar—
four shillings—for that morning tea !
I desired to have a frock pressed—a simple morning
frock of tussore. The man who answered my ring sent
another man, who took the frock away, kept it three-
quarters of an hour, then brought it and the account
back. The frock was nicely pressed. The bill was a
dollar and a half—six shillings ! I have been wondering
what they would have charged if the frock had been an
elaborate one.
Miss Madge Mclntosh, the fine melodramatic
actress who came out to Meynell and Gunn a
little while ago, has since her return to London
divorced her husband, Mr. Graham Browne, a
well-known actor. The suit was undefended.
The crumb of humor was the gentleman’s reply to
the fair Madge’s cable (from here) that she had
finished her Australian engagement. “ Take
another,” he replied.
In the Sydney Divorce Court, Justice G. B.
Simpson has been drawing attention to the fact
that he has to undo far too many knots named
Gwendoline, Euphemia, Viola and such like. It
seemed to his Honor that parents who named
their children so were paving their way to his
Honor’s Court just to keep his Honor’s nose to his
Honor’s grindstone. Last week a man brought a
large knot to be unravelled, and said the female
part of it was named “ Australia” ; but when it
was subsequently found that it was “ Estralia,”
his Honor almost threatened to go on strike.
But, being notoriously gallant, his Honor relented
in the end, and dissolved the knot in a bottle of
Costs.
over my brains with a reaper and
binder, I recall the memory of a novel hatpin
that a returned girl-traveller showed me a few
weeks ago. She bought it in Egypt during a
recent visit. It was a half-blown pink rose, per-
fect in shape and color, a natural rose, that had
been “fixed” fast, as if earven, by immersion in
some solution, the constitution of which the in-
ventor naturally does not cry aloud from the pyra-
mid tops.
Another novelty that will appeal to the house-
wife and the chef I saw in Melbourne during a
recent visit; but I suppose it can also be got in
Sydney. It was a “cooker”—an oblong metal
dish with a closely-fitting hinged cover. A mov-
able pan keeps the joint or bird just out of the fat,
and on the inner roof of the cover are innumer-
a.ile little protuberances, like so many thimbles
reversed. On these settle the steam of the joint,
and dropping back on to it, a natural basting goes
on. Ihe cover keeps the natural juices in the
n ’ usually they are dispersed to the four walls
of the oven. Be an artist, not a tradesman, in
the preparation of your food.
Yet another novelty seen in the southern
capital was a stuffed canary in a cage. The bird,
in response to the use of t key, opens its beak,
vibrates at the throat, and pours forth a flood of
glorious song—real canary-notes and trills. The
” as ® °f the cage is thick, and must conceal some
elaborate jnechanism, The price of the melodious
toy was 15 guineas, or some such pin-money trifle.
„ r^-'. ss Lvne and her father, the beknighted
William, are staying at the Wentworth Hotel,
and merrily seeing callers, in spite of the alleged
paralytic seizure of yesterday morning. Most of
us have had the seizures that are the result of a
nor -easter. You wake in the morning with the
sensation that your spine is missing and that you
are in a state of intellectual bankruptcy. If
you are a distinguished person, the press says
you have had a seizure.
A young man who in a few years has been the
means of raising £2500 for charities, deserves a
practical sign of recognition. Mr. Stanley
McKay, the man concealed in the foregoing
sentence, takes a testimonial performance at the
Cri. Theatre next Friday. “Niobe—All Smiles,”
the “Nurse” scene from “Romeo and Juliet,’’and
vocal music are programmed. All that is wanted
for the fine programme is an audience to match.
Miss Sylvia Blaikston is back in Sydney with
the lustre of her black eyes and hair as fresh and
undimmed as when she left us five years ago. She
had English and foreign engagements booked up
to 1911, when the serious illness of her father
caused the contralto-bird’s sudden flight from
London hitherward. As she is here, and is due
in America next year, she will submit to Sydney
a concert-proof of her voice after five years of
foreign study and platform work. On Wednesday,
22nd of December, at the Town Hall, the event
will occur, and the sample will consist of some 14
songs, English, German and French.
Mrs. “ Bob ” Fitzsimmons, to whom a reception
was given at the Wentworth Hotel last week, has
the voice of a prima donna, and was trained by
Jean de Reszke. She is to appear in aid of cer-
tain charities before Christmas.
Lady Poore is to open the new girls’ club, The
Pioneer, on Friday. Misses Frances Windeyer
and Phyllis Cunninghame are the hon. secs, of the
promising bantling.
Unobtrusively and cannily, like a night-faring
Aberdeen policeman in new “sneakers,” there
stole forth, at the beginning of this month, the
first issue of the official organ of the Highland
Society of N.S.W. I had a struggle to get
it, so skilfully had the promoters kept its
advent dark. It is called the Scottish Austral-
asian, and will provide occasional literary fare
acceptable to exiled Scots on this side.
“Tam o’ Shanter ” spreads himself ahent the late
R. Burns, a spirited contribution concerning the
composition of haggis is supplied, and all round
an atmosphere of brose, parritch and what-not
pervades the publication. The whisky advts. are
a feature. There are eight of them, no less, all
beautiful enough to drive a Rechabite to drink.
Yet, somehow, not one soft-drinks firm has sought
harborage in the journal.
I never could understand maps; but the Immi-
gration and Tourist Bureau has sent me a beautiful
one which is colored green, yellow and red, and
seems delightfully easy. It has “Agricultural
Map of New South Wales, 1909,” in one corner ;
and, immediately underneath, the key to the
color scheme. On referring to this, I find that
the green border next the coast is the Cow
Country. Right behind is a thick red belt;
this is where “mixed farming with some dairy-
ing” is indulged in. After the red is a thinner
belt of yellow ; this is the land of the sheep,
where also grain sprouts thickly. The hinterland
of the State is just plain white with black spider
tracks, and this is the pastoral area. Right up
at the top, next the Queensland border, is an im-
mense grey-shaded portion marked “ Artesian
Water-bearing Basin,” though I can’t find a pic-
ture of the crockery anywhere. The back of the
map is covered with useful information to the in-
tending settler. If I were not so busy I would go
out and settle on a green patch myself. It looks
so restful !
The most beautiful lot of calendars for 1910
I have seen are to hand from the Roycroft
Library—really works of art ; their coloring
makes one think of rose-leaved scrolls and wine.
“ The Book Lover’s Kalendar ” is a dainty book
the color of Scotch haddock (which is a lovely
brown), tied with green ribbon. It carries sweet
verses, suitable for every month. The Garden
Lovers’ Kalendar is another masterpiece in ivory-
white, sapphire ribbon, with choice quotations.
4-S for the calendars to hang over your desk, they
carry fair faces, dreamy landscapes from weli-
known artists, or smart-set dogs, with silk cords
and tassels to tone in with the art paper on which
the 365 days are blazoned.
Out of pure altruism everyone who was at the
Stage Society’s performance of “ Hedda Gabler ”
on Friday will wish the performance repeated. The
number that saw it was so small, the loss to
those who did not so considerable. As Hedda
Gabler, Miss Irby Marshall was startlingly
successful. She is a beautiful girl, and her
grasp of the character of Hedda. her easy
playing of the cold-hearted, hot-headed woman,
suggested the genius. Miss Marshall is a
Queensland girl, and went on the stage some five
years ago; but,' having married, she has only
appeared at long intervals. She has a Princess
part in J.C.W.’s “ Catch of the Season ” Christ-
mas production in Melbourne.
Yours affectionately,
AKENRBI.


imJ
<b
U.
o
rO ■
fa.
tm
®SSI
m#
Mm
/ f i
r
! \\
»<r
■H
ft
t*
>ks
y.
i\ a-1
vf\:
P?
e
£l-
- .
fjv V
S&BS
-A*
# .. x. .*£4
m
&
X
Xv
iff
gjj£
1
n
;j&W
’• if,.-. -' ; ' v
' 4»
m
'Si&IWW
pA^FV^
vr.
N *L
jf- .i-s
***•' V
N* <>
JP*"
J«;
C-O-B-R-A Ufye Boot PolisK!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Round the World
At boot-time due.
Hitches up
His team and drives,
Ev’ry morning
He arrives.
He has time
And cash to spare,
“COBRA" takes
Him ev'rywhere !
All the other
Sorts he loses!
“COBRA” is the
Stuff HE uses 1


ALWAYS ORDER
Whisky and
Schweppe”
(See Red Seal on Every Bottle.)
Dunlop
Hose
Lasts for
Years.
m
DUNLOP
CARDEN ItflSf
will give you every
satisfaction, for it is
made to last. Does
not Kink or Burst.
The fact that more “Dunlop” Hose
is sold in Australasia than any
other brand, speaks volumes for
its Quality and Durability. Only
accept “Dunlop” Brands.
OBTAINABLE ALL STORES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., all State, and NZ
iflilniu
■!!!■!!!!!!!
\
vTm
\li
V?
ar' "i
7 /
k
->’■' % N
Dunlop-
Kelly Tyres
Are Solid Tyres of Pure Rubber
that absorb all vibration on
Vehicles. Ensuring Comfort to
yourself and doubling the life of
your Vehicle. We fit Tyres in all
sizes to all classes of Vehicles —
ranging from £sa pair.
Illustrated List on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide. Perth,
Brisbane and Christchurch. N.Z.
1
Medical & Toilet Black & Green Ticket R e £?
MISS HILDA SPONG and SOLYPTOL SOAP.
n da p 0 t^'. e beautiful and accomplished actress, who commenced her stage career in Australia
sends the following unsolicited testimonial to the manufacturers of SOLYPTOL SOAP ’
M T)ear SGs —Yni A *<SM >ll f G i a C °' Savoy Hotel, London, W. 0., July SI, 1909.
I have found it °h P recen “ rou B ht under my notice, and you may be interested to know that
b m kln TP I , have ever used - Ir ' lathers most freely in the hard London water,
fl.rivnthei- fi chilly refreshing, and it leaves the skin soft and velvety in a manner unobtainable with
nrodnctlnn 0 p ‘ 11 P articularl y gratifying to me to know that Australia is the home of such a perfect
production. Yours faithful!v, HILDA SPONG
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 13, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik, —
The Bosanquets, of South Australia, waited till
after the whirl of Cup gaiety was past before they
made their state visit to these parts. A young
brunette daughter represented S.A. at Guv’ment
House during race time, while papa and mamma
and the twin sister merely ran over for a quiet, in-
formal week-end. On their return the coal strike
had cut down the sleeper accommodation on
the Adelaide express to one car, wherein
passengers were boxed like sardines. Neverthe-
less, the Governor and his suite, walking over red
carpet, boarded and occupied a - whole car for the
overworking of a poor, half-starved engine. It
nearly provoked a mutiny.
The Bosanquet Governor-folk caused Melbourne
some mild worry. How should it pronounce the
Irenchy-looking piece of family architecture?
80-somy-kay, ’ said some who had been to Paris
and knew a thing or two. “ ‘ .80-san-que,’ of
course ,” snorted others. At last a brave one
rushed an aide and soon spread the glad news.
Now those in the sacred know just say plain
“ 80-san-kitt.”
On the reappearance of the Asches, G.-G. Dud-
ley and his lady, attended by Lord Dicky Nevill
arid a Guv’ment House party, strolled in a few
minutes after eight, whereupon the house rose
sheepishly, and the orchestra brayed the usual
painful strains. It is a distressing spectacle, and
makes one wonder whether we are really superior
to the English, who are not guilty of these silly,
superfluous outbursts.
Our Miss Duggan’s Ophelia in our latest
‘ Hamlet” is less than ethereal and over 30. She
is plump and rounded—well nourished, one would
judge, on such ambrosial fare as beef and pickles.
Yet her gowning is so artless, its simplicity so
exultant, that she attains an aspect of naivete.
One frock is azure, like a summer morn or a legal
summons; the others are white and so innocent
of garniture that one sees at any rate that Miss
Eugenie can learn restraint when" she thinks the
occasion demands it. Moreover, she affects not
the least bit of horticulture—not even a bouquet
of beetroot or a spray of cauliflower—except, of
course, in the Mad Scene, when her hair must be
garnished. And it is in the Mad Scene that Miss
Ophelia Duggan looks her best. With her sweet
spring costume and her hair loose she seems
almost like one of those young angels that ring
out glad chimes on a Christmas card.
While on their recent journeyings, the £ £
Smiths went to lunch with the Countess of Lin-
lithgow—quite a little family affair, with the
Countess serving the raspberry pie herself and
such like. It was at Hopetoun House, or Lin-
lithgow Gistle, or whatever the Hopes call their
little diggings. It is a show place even in the
land of beautiful old castles. To quote the £ £’s,
the Government House from which the Hope-
touns once governed could be packed into either a
leg or a vying of the Hopetoun humpy, and its
gardens might be lost in one corner of the gorgeous'
park lands and flower-plots. Mrs. £ £ went
to England to collect daughter Louise, who had
spent two years abroad, mostly in visits round
about Scotland, with dashes upon Paris to im-
prove her French and other decorations.
On a large junction station sat four assorted
grown-up people—young and frivolous, but appa-
rently sane. On their knees were flat boxes, and
in the boxes the “blocks” familiar to babies of
tender years and sacred to Kindergarten. There
is a picture, and blocks to be fitted to make the
picture. These youths and maidens were shriek-
ing uproariously over the task, and gave intima-
tion that another’Murkan craze has set its claw on
this country. Teddy bears (begun as a sort of po-
litical gag on President Roosevelt) had raged itself
out in the Yoonighted States before it reached
here ; so the bears, valued at shillings and sold for
pounds, vyere shovelled on to idiotic Fashion-
followers in Australia. Following the bears in
the States came the picture-block craze. Grown-
up women gave block parties. Horribly expen-
sive picture-blocks were bought—one foreach guest
—and female creatures, dressed in 50-dollar hats
and 1000-dollar coats, came and sat at tables with
a serious, worried air, and spent hours in piecing
the pictures together for glory and still more hor-
ribly expensive prizes. This game has whipped
through the States until it has absorbed all the
enthusiasm going, and has got itself firmly into
the comic papers and the short stories. Now, at
the far tag-end, when the States have a glut of the
picture blocks for sale, the Fashion is passed on
here. This show on the junction station was the
first public sign of the disease. But it will grow
—like ping-pong.
Some returned wanderers who have brought
back chic fig-leaves for the envy of friends say
they dared not bring the real mode. The mode ,
they say, would make more commotion in these
parts than a coal strike. One bunch of come-
backs tells of a dashing damsel who boarded the
boat thej r were on. She was it —only the other
passengers did not know. They thought—well,
no matter. At any rate, she was tabu, scorned,
ignored by all—that'is, outside her immediate
circle. What niche, they wondered, did she fill
in life. “Chorus girl,’’was the verdict. Her
dresses clung—my, how they did cling ! The
sheath was cut to show a beautiful silken leg and
dainty foot. The creature even had the audacity
to tilt her foot on to the taff-rail while she talked
to a man, and showed the limb-curves to perfec-
tion. The questionable young lady left the boat
at Colombo, and the shes rushed the register.
Plump ! They all fainted. The lady was Some-
body. She was a Lord’s daughter. And she was
the mode.
At last we-have attained a Bernard Shaw pro-
duction, and it whets the appetite for more. The
University Literature Society,was brave enough
to break from Pinero and Sutro, and make its first
bow to the public in “You Never Can Tell,” at
the Turn Verein Hall. An amateur performance
of a Shaw play is liable to be comic in a way the
author never intended, but these performers have
every reason to be proud of their daring. Nellie
Bramley, as Dolly Clandon, might have been
born to the order of Shaw himself, so much she
was a part of his irrepressible twentieth-centurv
damsel, who would be a most impossible person to
be aunt to ; whilst Miss Bull grappled well with
the difficult part of Gloria. Whoever stage-
managed the performance deserves an extra hard
pat on the back, for it flowed with quite pro-
fessional smoothness.
The Greens’ annual fancy dress ball for kiddies
occurred in the Masonic Hall one evening last
week. It was in every way charming, and
almost as notable for its clever dancing as for its
gorgeous costuming. One little maid, in gold and
gauze and fragile wings, palpably belonged to a
beautiful order of Lepidoptera. Another, a
frisking child in a garb of silver, was apparently a
fairy who had escaped from a Rackham drawing,
btill another romped as a pink convolvulus,
with two cute green legs as twin stalks
to the flower. Flowers, indeed, were extremely
de rigueur. Small boys were less representative of
iantasy than of Fact. Some were scouts, theatri-
cal in their plainness; one was an Aladdin
of surpassing grandeur; another a Monsieur
Beaucaire ; another a very effective little Dutch-
man—and so on in a riot of color. Dancing was
naturally the feature of the festival. The barn
dance, a Highland schottische, a minuet, to select
a few, were given by the youngsters in excellent
style; and later in the evening they danced the
novel French cotillon des Jleurs, which is all curt-
seys, flowers and waving fans.
The Nevin Taits, three all told, are wandering
through South Africa on their way from England
to Australia and home. This Mrs. Tait was
Bess Norris, an Australian production, who has
gained fame in London as well as another name.
Hubby is the N. of the J. and N. Tait combina-
tion ; he is exploiting the Besses of the Barn in
South Africa, and has visions of another monster
blow in Australia. The third of the travelling
trio is a lusty youngster—a son.
lor this Christmas night we are to have
Dickens human “Christmas Carols.” given by
Miss Grantham at the Athenaeum Hall. When
the lady chirped “The Cricket on the Hearth,”
at Sydney St. James’, she made an artistic suc-
cess of it; but still she prefers to make her first
iippearance on this side in the “ Carols.” With a
fine presence, a rich, deep voice and a sincere
appreciation of her author, Miss Grantham’s
recital, besides being an experiment so far as a
woman is concerned, should be a joy to her
audience.
Ihe Bland Holts got an ovation the last night
of ‘ White Heather.” A large box, covered with
pink satin, and decked with ribbons and bunches
of white heath, and containing a silver soup-
tureen and other engraved furniture, was handed
over the footlights. A white satin hand-painted
photo case the work of Miss Walters—was also
passed along. Bland made a rattling good speech,
and the house cheered till its chest was weary.
After the play, the more intimate friends of the
Holts got behind the scenes, and, between drinks,
said they were both jolly good fellows.
The Holts intend taking the rest-cure at
Wellington Parade (where the dust comes from)
for a time. After that, they will sniff the salt
breezes of Sorrento ; and then the betting is C to
4 on that Bland will take up the shovel and the
hoe of theatrical management again.
Rupert Conrick was farewelled by his friends,
comrades and admirers at the Masonic Hall on a
recent Saturday, when dray loads of eulogies were
backed up and tipped all over him. The popular
young man, who has elocuted to considerable
extent in the cause of charity, goes to London to
push himself behind the footlights, and as he has
youth, good looks and good health, to say nothing
of ability, he should be quickly on nodding terms
with success.
Mrs. Gillfillan (Miss May Vale that was) is to
hold an exhibition of her sketches and enamels at
her studio, in Collins-street, on the last days of this
week. As Miss Vale Mrs. Gillfillan was an artist
of tonnage the public is being urged to go
along and see whether she has changed her ways
with her name.
Hans Heysen, that vigorous Australian artist,
is keeping to his work. He and his young wife,
who is also artistic, have planted themselves
down in a country cottage in South Australia,
and are putting all the gums and cows of the
neighborhood on to canvas. Motfatts, here
m Melbourne, had a late canvas of his
on show before it departed to the home
of its purchaser, and it was a thing
of eloquence. The corner of a well-timbered
paddock, with sheep. A hot day, with the heat-
haze shimmering in a blur against distant trees
and hills. Never has that hot, still atmosphere
been caught more subtly. The sheep brown, as
Australian sheep are. White, woolly creatures,
such as artists conservatively graze on their
canvases, may run in bright, green fields in Eng-
land ; but they don’t run in Australian paddocks.
Heysen’s sheep are merinoes—quite patently
merinoes ; even a critical sheep-breeder could tell
that. They are moving, as sheep always do
when they feed. And behind the mob a ewe
wallops along in the lurching way of a sheep that
finds itself late ; and it bleats almost audibly.
Pathe Frbres, the cinematograph film people,
have just sent to Paris an enormous length of film
called “ Circus in Australia,” which will travel to
the ends of the earth on a thousand screens. The
film was taken from Wirths’ last show in Mel-
bourne, and, to celebrate the advt., the joyful
brothers have bought another bunch of feathers
for the kangaroo’s tail.
Pursey iChirnside still limps round with a
wounded knee. He was going to sell some of the
family s bloated grange, wherefore he set to work
clearing the surface of stones, so that the grange
might turn a smoother face to buyers. One rock
tumbled over in its long sleep, rolled on its
squatter, and laid him on his bed for weeks. And
even after Pursey’s personal exertions and suffer-
ings, the sale wasn’t a success—in Pursey’s
opinion, anyway. In fact, they do say that in
great disgust he stopped the sale, and, closing the
refreshment tent with as much bang as-a tent is
capable of, declared that he wasn’t going to have
people eating and drinking under false pretence.
A smart young matron tripping about Mel-
bourne after her travels is Mrs. Welford, one of
the Gillespies of Villa Lido, Mentone. A pretty
black-eyed sister has been wandering with Mrs.
Lately-wed, and the journey terminates in Hobart
Another sister, Miss Millie Gillespie, has de-
parted for Cairo and a third inspection of London.
There never was a rose season like this year’s.
In the midst of the whirling rush of race time,
and hustled into a mere corner of people’s
thoughts thereby, the Horticultural Society had
its show and filled the Town Hall with glory
while a sympathetic orchestra played “ Boheme.’’
Ihe scent of the roses and the strains of
Boheme ” made a mingled fragrance. But the
decorators of the rose show do not take the
strength of their position. All round that
hall was a stiff garland of greenery, with be-
headed roses stuck at intervals upon it. Roses
are wildly plentiful at rose-show time. Only the
minority are show blooms, but the majority are
decorative. Why don’t they, then, pile baskets
with the glory, and hang them where the garlands
are laboriously put? Every year there is a newrose,
a debutante—no debutante in human life gets so
much attention. The new rose is pampered and
watched and talked about. Every detail of her
beauty is canvassed. But this year’s glorious rose
was net new—the Marquise Nardillac, or some-
thing such. She is not a debutante, but is as
capricious as a court beauty. She refuses to bloom
at all some years; then in a gracious mood she
beams and blooms. But rarely does she bloom
as in the season just past.
Though Melbourne’s new railway station is
an architectural joke, it at least has one redeem-
ing feature in the modest Loungers’Club which
has been started in one of the Flinders-street
basements. To this club, which studies con-
venience instead of religion or politics, anyone
who possesseth a humble brown coin is welcome.
In a pretty room of green and mauve one may sit
and read, or write a letter on club paper on pay-
ment of another copper; or, if one is luxurious,
one may buy afternoon tea and home-made cake
for a thrippeny. A guinea a year will secure all the
club privileges, including the library, though one
imagines the casual penny-a-timer will be more
numerous than the yearly member.
From ‘‘Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
Vice-regality has folded its tents, packed its clothes
and stolen to Marble Hill for the summer, which
may be expected any minute now, even though we are
at present being subjected to an icy weather-shock.
Nearly every day, thoutrh, one Excellence or the other is
dragged back to open or shut something ; so we still have
something to live for. Last week his Ex. hurried down
and welcomed the H.M.S. Psyche people, who came
ashore and made a noise—of a more or less pleasant
nature—in the North Adelaide Institute. Their object
was to swell the bank balance of the local Seamen’s
Mission.
All the fire-brigades emerged suddenly last Friday
afternoon and rushed about town. They did fancy
marching and calisthenic exercises ; they ran races, and
leapt over obstacles in great style. And finally they
rushed up ladders and played the hose on defenceless
buildings, and rescued imaginary maidens from similar
conflagrations. The gilded and official populace had a
portion of the earth fenced off in the neighborhood of
the manoeuvres, so that it wouldn’t get trampled on or
have its eyebrows singed ; but the million had to take these
risks.
The University undergrads had their annual outburst
by night this year. A torchlight procession, wild and
dinny, opened the proceedings, which terminated on the
Exhibition Oval in what was termed a Continental. It
was, as usual, a tremendously hilarious revel; but what it
was all about we still don’t know. However, quantities
of girl turned up and were immensely gratified.
We are to 'have a pageant. It is to be A Dream of
Fair Females, and the son of the poet who wrote about
the same is to be invited to chop down a pine tree or two
on his late papa’s estate. The pines will then be sawn up
and sent out, and the flitches will be tied to books of the
play, which will be then sold in aid of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Tram-horses and other animals.
Mrs Jim Anderson has a large finger in this pie.
Two well-known families have gone into mourning.
Mrs. Edwin Mayfield, Adelaide’s Mayoress until a week
ago, has lost her son, who was only 21; and the James
Melroses’ youngest boy, Eric, succumbed to meningitis at
the same age. The latter was a bookish youth, and
travelled the inky track in a modest way. Like his
mother, who died last year, he was cremated.
There is an epidemic of engagements in the Eastern
Extension Co.’s service. No less than four of the men
who translate the cable’s lies are demanding the felicita
tions of an interested world.
The Conservatorium’s last outburst brought forth yet
another voice of much promise. The owner is a young
ster, still in the flapper period, named Kathleen O’Dea
and her initial struggles up Parnassus have been aided by
Miss Guli Hack. The latter, having presented the maiden
as a kind of final legacy to the local world of music before
plunging in to matrimony, has now gone trousseau-hunting
in Melbourne.
Artist Bessie Davidson has made up her mind to g
back to Paris early next year. During the two years she
has been here she has added her quota to the local
gallery and achieved other triumphs. Now she is after
further French polish for her clever brush.
The authorities who guide that excellent institution,
“ Minda,” the home for weak-minded children, will have
a street collection on Christmas eve to coax the careful
half-pence fr«m the public on behalf of the poor babes in
their care. ,
The Frederick Bevans had a party in their garden on
Tuesday eve, whereat everyone who had helped at all in
the Gilbert and Sullivan lectures was bidden to spend a
festive hour. There was music (with tunes in it); there
were colored lights playing hide and seek in the tree
tops; and there was a sumptuous supper in the billiard
room.
Miss Agnes Giles has been given into the keeping of
Mr. Walter Law Smith, with a considerable flourish
at Christ Church. She was handed over in a garment of
satin and gorgeous rose-point; and a pale blue maiden
and a white cloth page assisted her to bear up. Many
relatives, some Barr-Smiths, Lungleys, a Coles girl, the
Willie Popes and a few other favored personages saw that
the Voice Breathed in time and tune. Afterwards the
bride, in innocent white muslin and lace with some
pinky-blue millinery, fled in a motor.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
From the Old Soldier :
Poor Joe Cook has confessed to another little trouble
over Kitchener of Khartoum’s visit. Liddell, who mis
represents Maitland, was anxious to know whether want
of money prevented the Minister for Defence taking the
big-boy cadets into camp, and was told it wasn’t, but
want of equipment. In fact, poor Joe could neither
shelter nor cook for them. Tents and cooking utensils
are the “ equipment ” he means, and he hasn’t enough to
go round. The idea has apparently never occurred to
Joe, or any of his predecessors or staff, that;
it might be necessary some day to feed, clothe
and shelter a great many more than the 2000
or so who usually attend a camp. Clearlv the
available equipment is not, on Joe’s own showing, more
than enough,for the numbers who now turn out.'”There
is a curious variety of tents for officers, mostly of Indian
type, while the common person who serves in the ranks
and does “ sentry go,” has to put up with the ancient
bell-tent, which holds him by the half-dozen or so. For
cooking utensils, Indian copper degehis, such as are
served out to the native cooks of European regiments
are very generally used in camp.
It is high time some one in authority thought of “ stan-
dardising” Australian camp requisites in a civilised way.
Some of the people who ta'lk about “ the Swiss military
system ” would be astonished not so much at its organi-
sation as at its perfect equipment. Every battalion of
the Elite, for its 25 officers and 749 of other ranks, has six
carriages at its headquarters always packed and ready for
the road ; and the necessary 18 draught horses are always
within reach. The Swiss don’t bother about tents (no
people of continental Europe ever do for their soldiers)
When recruits are going through their drill thev are kept
jn barracks, where each man is allowed more than
50 cubic feet of air space, which is a 9 much
as the whole cubic contents of one of the
bell tents into which Joe Cook crams half a dozen or
more unfortunate Australians. Any skilled work the
bwiss wants it can get done by the four companies of
Artificers it has in the great arsenal at Thun. Each divi-
sion (there are eight in the army) has a battalion of
Engineers with 30 waggons carding a complete bridge
equipment, and all necessary tools for entrenching’,
building and road-making; and there is also a strong"
railway battalion, recruited among the railway men of all
classes in the country. There is also an Administrative
Corps of eight companies, each containing 20 bakers and
10 butchers, besides other tradesmen. It is so easy,
when you have the whole population to pick from, to put
* V^ an wan t just where he is wanted. Cook can't.
And it s mainly his own fault that he can’t.


6
6
Our Six
Each leads
‘Red Label” Whisky, 15 years old, extra
choice, ss. bottle: 28s. gallon.
‘ Royal Grande ” Brandy, 15 years old, very
choice, ss. 6d. bottle; 325. gallon.
‘ Special Liqueur ” Brandy, 7s. 6d. bottle;
* 425. gallon.
■■■■feg 1 11 *’■ * ;
* v ,
i ’ .
m
- 4'' <V'i
'
:■ * : 4
* •
vr
v..
mmm mm' . ** -J,, s :
? J?> v 'V »•'«!
1. . . .
fwi'tki
■
- .
" :
;
■
*
!i
* a
■ 1
pi
fIK
iiifeSKKfi
in its class.
,s M.S.” Invalid Port, 30s. dozen.
M.S. “Special Blend” Whisky, 4s. 3d.
bottle; 245. gallon.
M.S. “Special” Sherry, 2s. 3d. bottle;
255. dozen.
Here are a few other favorites
M.S. Pale Ale, 6s. dozen ; pints, 4s. dozen.
M.S. Bitter Ale, quarts, 6s. 6d. dozen ; pints, 4s. dozen.
M.S. London Dry Gin, 3s. 6d. bottle ; 19s. gallon.
Pot Still Old Irish Whisky, 4s. 3d. bottle; 235. gallon.
Mutual Club Whisky, 4s. bottle ; 225. gallon.
South Australian Brandy, pure grape, 4s. bottle;
19s. gallon.
Pinest Amontillado Sherry, ss. 6d. bottle.
Pinest Old/lawny Port, ss. 6d. bottle.
A choice assortment of well-matured Australian Wines.
NON-ALCOHOLIC DRINKS.
“ Ecks,” the great health drink, 3s. 6d. dozen.
Grenadine, Is. 9d. bottle.
Lemon Squash, Is. 6d. bottle.
Burnet’s Gingerwine Extract, Is. bottle.
Burnet’s Lemon Extract, Is. bottle.
Montserrat Lime Juice Cordial, Is. 6d. bottle.
Montserrat Lime Juice, quarts, 3s. bottle.
Montserrat Lime Juice, pints, Is. 6d. bottle.
We have a liquor to suit every
palate. Call and select one
acceptable to YOURS.
m
(VIUTUA!,
STORE
Special Blend
10 Years OiO
t&=
This is a bottle of “ M.S.
Special ’’—well and favor-
ably known to all good
judges of Whisky.
Ministers to the Interior
and Comfort of Man,
Opp. Flinders Street Station,
MELBOURNE.
(VIUT UA
STORE
Special Bif.No
*0 Years CKo
19=
There is only one thing
better than a bottle of
“ M.S. Special ’’—that’s
another.
6
6


Walter Bradley & Go.
284- George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining Boom Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed by
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised thatKature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will be sent post paid to any
address upon receipt of price— 3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDGWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
CURING THE CAUSE
OF SCIATICA.
♦
New Treatment in Advance
of Old Methods.
*
When the Nerves are Strong and
in Tone Sciatica Naturally
is Cured.
The same principle* must be observed in treat-
ing sciatica as in any other disease if a really
permanent cure is looked for. The correct treat-
ment must go a step behind ordinary treatments
that aim at relieving the sciatic pains, and cure
the cause of the trouble. Sciatica is a nervous
disorder just like neuralgia. One high medical
writer has said it is the cry of the nerves for food.
The complaint indicatse that the nerves are weak
and run down. Toning the nerves to their proper
state naturally cures the disorder. Amongst
blood-makers and nerve tonics Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills have gained a high name. They actually
make new blood, and through the blood supply
the nerves with the food that keeps them in tone,
thus curing nervous disorders. Amongst recent
cures of sciatica is the following :
“ About nine years ago I got sciatica,” said
Mrs. Margaret Tydings, March Street, Mary-
borough, Queensland. “It came on quite sud-
denly with twinges of terrible pain in hips and
legs. I could not stand straigiit, and the pain
increased almost daily. It was very severe. I
had to neglect my household duties through my
illness. My husband and family were much
troubled over me. Sometimes I used to get slight
ease, but at other times the pain was unbearable.
It was very severe in the back of hip and thigh.
Very bad on walking about. Both my legs
started to waste away. The doctors didn’t seem
able to do me any real good, so a friend of my
husband advised me to give Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills a trial. I did, and found improvement
before I had finished the first box. From then on
I gradually picked up, and now I am in good
health, and believe that it was Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills that cured me. I have had no return
of the complaint for the past seven years. 1 have
recommended Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to several
of my Maryborough friends.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by chemists
and storekeepers, or sent by mail, post paid on
receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per box, G boxes 15s. 3d.,
by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney.*
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort, made of
the best materials, and fjives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of spring's.
We make oil kinds of Trusses
and have experienced litters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
•281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter SC.), SYDNEY.
Also At Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Vic. Employers’ Federation is dis-
tributing pamphlets expounding its policy. Its
first and particular plank is the upholding of the
Cons’tooshun, though it is safe to say the Em-
ployers’ Federation wouldn’t know the’Cons’too-
shun if it met the blessed creature. “ The Labor
Socialistic party,” it says, “ is constantly clamor-
ing for legislation which is outside the Cons’too-
shun,” and if the people don’t vote Anti-Sosh
dreadful things will happen. The people, how-
ever, are probably rather tired of having their
leg pulled that way ; having rather more political
knowledge than the Employers’ Federation, they
see that, if a law is unconstitutional, the Courts
will promptly upset it. In short, it isn’t because
these proposed laws are unconstitutional that the
Employers’ Federation worries ; it is because they
are constitutional, and therefore can’t be upset.
Stop It!
A neglected cough or cold may lead to serious
bronchial or lung troubles. Don’t take chances,
for Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and
Colds affords perfect security from serious effects
of a cold. Small dose. Pleasant to take. Every
bottle guaranteed.*
The Wade Gpvernment, which got into
office by assuring the country that the previous
crowd was a riotous spendthrift, and that the
State would smash for certain if it went on rush-
ing so furiously to the pawnshop, passed its own
loan estimates last week. The total (apart from
loans for repayments) was £3,249,212. How the
Wade Government must snigger at the way it
fooled the country with its prodigious confidence-
trick !
The military Foxton, who went to the
Defence Conference a while ago, could scarcely
restrain his jubilation over the passing of the
Naval Loan Bill. As soon as it was through he
wired to McKenna, First Lord of the Admiralty:—
Scheme approved, practically unanimously. Naval Loan
Bill passed both Houses of Parliament.
To which McKenna joyously responded :
Many thanks for telegram. Congratulations to British
Empire.
Evidently a mistake in transmission. What
McKenna really said was :—“ Congratulations to
Yiddish Empire.”
There is hope for Victoria when even one
member of its House of Fat can see like thjs :
There were three counties in Victoria which contained
2,5.)0,0()0 acres of land, mainly of good quality, some
being the finest arable land in the world. The counties
referred to were Hampden, ltipon and Grenville, and out
of these 2,o00,0(i0 acres only 200,000 were now cultivated.
In thgse counties there were now' 7623 fewer people than
there were 37 years ago.
And the man who can see these things is not one
of your Labah fellahs either, but J. Drvsdale
Brown, John Weary's Attorney-General. More-
over, having seen these things, j. Drysdale Brown
can’t understand any country people opposing
leader John’s land -tax.
Bigjohn Forrest’s currency arrangements,
which include an Australian silver coinage, have
passed the post without drawing the attention of
2 per cent, of the population. Other more striking
questions were being screeched about every time
it was on the track, so the public hardly noticed
Bigjohn till he cantered in. Yet, though this
coinage Bill attracted so little comment, the cur-
rency was the first political question N.S.W. press
was allowed to discuss. Up to 1823 no politics
were permitted in Australian newspapers. But
the currency (then in course of alteration) was so
important that Governor Brisbane had to give
way and allow the press to thresh the subject
fully. Thus the press tasted freedom ; and in
about a year the censorship had to go altogether.
The small but noisy Anti-Sosh party in
Maoriland was delighted over the brief strike of
400 men at the State-owned mine near Grey-
mouth, and hailed the circumstance as a striking
proof of the dangers, follies and general iniquities
of interfering with Private Enterprise. Tory
newspapers reckoned it the last nail in the coffin
of State Socialism, and called on the world to wit-
ness this convincing demonstration of the beauties
of Anti-Sosh. Still, if a brief strike of 400 men in
a publicly-owned mine in Maoriland proved State
Socialism to be a failure, a delusion and a snare,
what does a protracted strike of 12,000 or more
miners in private mines in N.S.W. prove?
A. W. Hogg, who was Minister for Labor
in the Ward Government (M-L.), but threw
up the job rather than stand for the new Land Bill,
is still boiling with rage. At Wellington, last
week, he likened the Ministry to a menagerie :
Dr. Findlay may be described as the hawk, ready to
seize and pluck either friend or foe. Mr. Carroll—does
he not represent the drowsy Mongrel, the only sign of
life being that he occasionally wags his tail? Mr. Millar
is the rat with the red eyes, looking for the principles
that he has lost. Mr. Fowlds, sleek and mild, is the
pigeon, rapidly losing hisfreetrade and single-tax features.
Mr. Roderick McKenzie may be likened to the owl, who
sees better at night than during the day. Mr. Buddo
represents the poor little cock sparrow, chirping hope-
fully, and wondering what will happen next. My old
friend Mr. T’hos. Mackenzie., the Freetrade Minister, is
like the cat—always ready to make a spring. Joseph
Ward is in charge of this little menagerie. • He has the
animals all in his cage, and the dog and the cat, although
their tails may be tied together, find themselves com-
pelled to agree.
Hogg concluded his scientific discourse by declar-
ing that in the whole outfit there was not enough
backbone to set a jellyfish up in business.
J. BULL'S QUANDARY.
THE WORRIED ONE: “ I better mount this 'orrid
energetic an progressive animal an make a
move , or that other more violent brute will
MAKE ME.”
According to a statement made by Prime
Minister Deakin just before the House of Reps,
broke up last week, the Federal elections are to
be held in the first fortnight after Easter.
THE FUSION BANNER.
NAVAL DEFENCE POLICY.—THE FUNDS TO BE
BORROWED.
The Tory press of Maoriland is fond of
calling the Government a Continuous Ministry,
and so far as concerns the keeping of Ward and
Jimmy Carroll in office it is continuous enough,
but its policy isn’t continuous nowa-
days. Old Jock McKenzie would
turn in his grave if he knew that
in future State leases are to include
the right of purchase, and that the
freehold push is on top once more.
In fact, if McKenzie knew he would
never want a grave any more. He
would get up at once anil stay up.
The Oil Octopus is beginning to
squeeze in a new way. When the
motorist buys a case containing two
tins of petrol he pays, so he thinks,
for eight gallons ; but if he takes the
trouble to measure a tin he is liable
to find that there is only about
gallons inside, wherefore he is paying
for a gallon of stink producer that
he doesn’t get. Hence the motor
hog, who is usually of the Fat type,
and regards Government ownership
or production as half-brother to the
plague, begins to curse the huge
Private Enterprise Octopus ; but all
the cursing in the world won’t make
a monopoly virtuous. What is wanted is a pro-
tective duty on Yankee petrol big enough to give
Australia a chayce“ to’'develop the local oil busi-
ness and encourage the manufacture of an alcohol
motor spirit—out of prickly pear, if possible.
The college cap is charm when
worn by bright and; pretty girls. And brainy
imbibers of D.G.L. Whisky may be interested to
know that the cap worn by the charming D.C.L.
girl, whose photo 'adorned The Bulletin
Christinas Number, was 'obtained from Lincoln
Stuart’s, of Melbourne; where are vast stores of
hats and caps for the thatching of every sort of
brainy cranium.*
Without doubt, the best issue’ for some
time. . . . “Full of meat” must be thewerdict of
the reader of the November issue. . . . Certainly
the best and brightest shilling’s worth printed in
Australia. . . The illustrations and general print-
ing of the number are amongst the best this
magazine has yet given us, which is saying a good
deal. ... A remarkably good number. Pferhaps
the best matter in the number is the further con-
tribution of “ Galahad Jones ” ; and in this serial
special attention should be given to the illustra-
tions, as they are exceptionally clever and far
ahead of many magazine pictures. This month’s
magazine is worth double its price and is chokeful
of entertainment.—lt is perhaps unnecessary to
mention that the magazine thus referred to by the
Maoriland press is The Lone Hand.*
People who take the train be-
tween Richmond and South Yarra
(Vic.) these days look out on a
striking monument to the virtues
of Protection. A few hundred
yards from the railway, and with
its principal facade abutting on
Church-street, South Richmond, is
a brand-new three-storeyed brick
building, which is shortly to burst
into life as an up-to-date match
factory’. The pile is so big that
it occupies a whole block, and
faces a public thoroughfare on
all four sides. Machinery is
even now being put in, and
for a start the business will
one way and another employ
about 500 hands. When it gets
under weigh the good Austra-
lian will look on the box for
the sign which will tell him
whether his pipe-light gave
employment to his own
countrymen or to someone
else’s.
“ Dick ” Underwood,
the good Australian who
represents way-out Marble
Bar in the Groperland As-
sembly, told the House the
other night, on the Licensing
Bill, that he believed in let-
tin" his principles have a fly
whenever there was a chance ;
and he let his White Australian
principles have a fly straight off by proposing that
no Asiatics should be eligible for a job in licensed
pubs. Underwood probably won’t be able to
carry it; but, anyhow, he'will make a few alleged
White Australians toe the line.
Cattle-king Kidman has just taken up 2587
square miles of Queensland in order to breed
cattle. Yet when it was proposed to allot the
Commonwealth 900 square miles in N.S.W. for
the Federal capital, State Frights shrieked that
the area was far too much to allow the Federal
Government to control.
Anti-Sosli didn’t feel well after the
Sydney municipal elections on December 1.
Three members of the Parliamentary Labor
party—O’Sullivan, Meagher and Andy Kelly—
topped the poll in their wards, whilst Broughton,
the solitary M.L.A. candidate representing Wade
and Anti-Sosh, was badly beaten, notwithstanding
that for two months the Tory press had been
continually beseeching Anti-Sosh to be up and
doing and save the country from the same old
tiger, which steadfastly refuses to tige.
Messrs. Williamsoln and Co., Jundah, Q.,
recently wrote: “Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera
and Diarrhoea Remedy enjoys a great reputation
in these parts. It has effected some really remark-
able cures, and scaicely a home is without a
bottle.”*
ROPE’S END.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Federal Session is drawing to a close, and Ministers
are confident of getting into recess.— Recent news item.
Ho, the good ship Fusion’s ’ove in sight
Of the ’arbor at Recess,
She’s sailin’ slow with ’er ’ull down low,
An’ she’s plainly in distress.
’fir sheets is tore an’ ’er gear’s askew,
She’s a most unsightly ship ;
Fer she shipped a real ole rough-up crew,
An’ she’s ’ad a crazy trip.
But ’eave dull care
Right overside,
Fer the ’arbor’s there,
An’ we’ll gently ride
Right into Port Recess.
O yes,
To the safety of Recess.
Fer the cruise wus rough, an’ we’ve ’ad enough
Of a life on the rollin’ sea ;
Of the pitchin’ an’ the tossiu’, an’ the Hoggin’ an’ the
bossin’,
And the threats o’ mu-ti-nee.
Ho, the good ship Fusion’s coinin’ in,
An’ ’er main-top gallant’s gone ;
But we know she’s safe by the wide, glad grin
On the purser bold, II John.
But the capting ’e ain’t wild wi’ glee,
An’ ’is troubles ain't done \e.,
Fer ’e knows ’e’s failed in the course ’e sailed,
An’ the owners mus’ be met.
But ’ip ’ooray !
Fer we ’ardly thort
When we sailed away
That we’d land in port.
An’ a cheer fer fust-mate Joe 1
t Yo-ho 1
’E’s a rare ole salt is Joe.
’E seen us thro’, fer ’e hazed the crew,
An’ ’e cowed ’em good an quick,
Fer the lubbers started growlin’when the windy storms
wus howlin’
But Joe he done the trick.
Ho ! the seas wus rough at Finance rock,
An’ we nigh on guv up ’ope ;
Fer the crew went wild ; but the capting smiled
When the fust mate seized a rope.
With a good rope’s-end ’e set to mend
Their ways wi’ a rough, rude shock ;
An’ ’e hazed ’em good, as a fust mate should,
An’ we weathered Finance rock.
O, the seas wus bad,
An’ the crazy crew
Wus nigh on mad,
An’ the tempest grew',
An’ it looked like Davey Jones ;
I owns
I thort of Davey Jones.
Hut the fust mate ’e smelled mu-ti-nee,
An’ 'e seized a rope’s-end tough,
An’ ’e druv ’em to their places, with terror on their faces,
Till they sed they ’ad enough.
Ho, the good ship Fusion’s nigh to port,
An’ it’s joy fer ev’ry 'and.
But the capting ’e sits mournfullee,
A-w r atchin’ of the land.
Fer the course ’e took ain’t by the book
As ’is owner told ’ini to ;
Fer ’e left the chart to the fust mate’s part,
An’ the ’andlin’ of the crew.
But it’s ’ip ’ooray !
Ses the foremast ’and,
Fer the joyful day
When we treads the land
In the harbor of Recess.
O yes,
Ther’s a rest at Port It cess.
An’ it’s ’ip, ’ip, ’ip I fer the Fusion ship,
Fer ’er sailin’ days is o’er.
She’s a ’ullt they’re all abusin’, an’ she’s seed ’er last c’
cruisin’,
An’ she’ll put to sea no more.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
THE GENTLE LADY’S WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is high time that women took an active part in the
government of the country, as men seem incapable of
directing affairs wisely.
Bah ! for Mr. Peter Bowling and an effete Government,
unable to deal with a state of things which should never
have existed had the laws it made been carried into
effect.
Take a ballot of the men’s opinions, and SO per cent
would go back to work to-morrow. They don’t want to
strike, poor driven cattle! They only do as they are
told, and they and the public pay the piper. Fie upon
you, men ! It’s enough to make one wonder whether,
after all our bombast about foreign invasion, it would not
be better for the country to be governed by some Power
more fitted to cope with these industrial convulsions than
we appear to be.— Extracts from a letter written to the
papers by a perfect lady a few days ayo.
I stand and watch with much contempt these menial
miner-fellows fight,
And shrill with laughter when I hear the trash they talk
about the Right.
The likes of them to talk of such w’hen they are only born
to work,
Like cattle steadied with the lash, or speeded with the
goading dirk !
Dear God! That they should be allowed to sing their
brutish-minded song
Of Labor’s wakening ! Where’s the Law, the prison—aye,
the triple thong?
With dirty hands they strangle trade ; with hobnail boots
they Commerce kill;
And, flouting Custom. Habit, Use, they loaf and sleep
and gorge and swill.
This White Australia policy is due for death ; for it is sure
That foreign hordes, as cheap as dirt, will give to us the
needed cure
For labor ills. The Chinaman and gentle Jap are patient
to the master’s word ;
They W’ould not make the public pay as does this present
labor herd.
Get back to work ! The mines are there 1 Not yours to
prate of Right and Wrong !
An it were I who steered the Law’ you’d fly before the
leaded thong.
N.S.W.
PRISCHLA PRINR.


r
Suits
TO
MEASURE
FOR
. Business
\ MEN.
m
w
fr
WVM
rn
a
w
ft
"iT®
l'
4Z
u
CUT , FIT,
AND
FINISH
Guaranteed.
Buckley * flufiri II?
MELBOURNE, S.E.
OUR SOLE AGENCIES
INCLUDE THE WORLD’S GREATEST PIANOFORTES
; TEINWAY
NSMEAD
ICH
A trio of Instru-
ments that repre-
sent the highest
artistic attainment
of America,
England and the
Continent,
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
MASON & HAMLIN Organs
acknowledged throughout the world as the leading
Organs for home, school or church.
The Artistic “ WELTE” Piano Player.
An instrument that reproduces the exact and individual renderings
of Classical Music as played by the World's Greatest Pianists.
RECITALS DAILY AT OUR SHOWROOMS.
Descriptive Booklets and Full Information Free.
NICHOLSON & CO. Ltd.
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-EDUCATION.
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence CsUSf
Can Train You By Post.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU ? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
of our students at uH PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division.
Commonwealth General Division.
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars
■ It V r t mistake to dela y this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
VN rite TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
172 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
Bfookman’s Chambers, GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
Why Pay More ?
Model H° 7
MU
■7S
!Pff
y-
%
L
■
i®
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable
Keyboard.
Unlimited Speed.
Two-Color Ribbon.
Steel Type.
Powerful Manifolder.
Light Touch.
Portable.
Built for Hard Work.
Warranted for two years.
Weight 121 b.
Don’t wait till your business grows before you
get your typewriter.
Get a typewriter* now, and your business will grow.
THE BRITON is the popular typewriter, because to merchants,
professional men, telegraph operators and journalists it means full
guaranteed value at the lowest possible price.
OUR OFFER . —We carry stock in every state, and will ship you a
Briton typewriter, charges prepaid. You use it for ten days’ free trial.
If you return it we pay freight, and you incur no obligation whatever.
If you want to keep it, remit the cash price, 10s., or if you prefer to
pay in instalments, we charge 10s. extra.
WRITE AT ONCE TO
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
Cor. GEORGE and WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
17 Queen St., Melbourne; 364 Queen St., Brisbane; 131 King William
St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Hobart; 17 Grey St., Wellington, N.Z.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’, hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
What more acceptable present/ to your
friend abroad than abound volume of The Lone
Hand ? This is a gift wholly Australian,
typical of the continent, and packed with.inform-
ation of all things Australian. Price Bs., or 9s. 3d
post free.*
WORMS.
Every child suffers more or less from those very
troublesome parasites which infest the stomach
and intestines, thread and stomach worms, which
are the cause of much of the irritability, fretful-
ness and restlessness in children of all ages.
Purgative medicines have no effect upon worms ;
they require a specific remedy.
h/COWSTO CHs ■
Are a safe, sure, and reliable remedy, prepared in
the form of a lolly, effectual both with children
and adults. Price Is. fid. (6 boxes, Bs. fid.), at all
chemists; or post free from the W. H. Comstock
Co. Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
THE BOX PLAN
FOR
Fitzsimmons v- Lang
CONTEST
TO TAKE PLACE AT 10.30 a.m. on
Boxing Day «The Stadium
IS NOW OPEN AT
Hugh D. Mclntosh’s BOX PLAN OFFICE,
100 KING STREET, close to Corner of Pitt Street.
SEATS—£S, £3, £2, £l, 10/- and 5/-
BOOK EARLY and SECURE YOUR SEAT.
Telegrams and Letters will receive prompt attention.
Fitzsirnmonsv.Tommy Burns
IN FOUR-ROUND SPAR at
The Stadium, Next Saturday Afternoon.
FITZSIMMONS will also appear in FAMOUS
WINNING HITS.
E. COVELL, Governing Director.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agrents—RlCHAßD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The first aeroplane flight (with a passenger)
was made by Colin Defriesin the Wright machine at Vic-
toria Park on Thursday, when, after a number of pre-
liminary tests, the machine rose gently from the ground
and skimmed along 115 yards in five seconds at a height
that varied from 3ft,. to 15ft. Then, just as everything
was going beautifully, it came down suddenly. Mr.
Defries explained that he had to switch off, as he found
the engine failing owing to faulty plugs. The first flight
in public was arranged for Saturday, but a nasty wind
made for delay ; and, when the machine started, it had
gone only 100yds. or so when the propellers struck the
supports of the rudders, and, carrying them away, put
the machine out of action. So far,' but little public in-
terest has been taken in the aeroplane, and only a couple
of hundred people were present. There were 10 times
the number at the Stadium to see the novices p'unch each
other and watch Fitzsimmons and “ Snowy ” Baker put
up an excellent performance.
* * * *
A short-range examination of the Wright aero-
plane at Victoria Park (Syd.) on Saturday confirms the
previous impression that the great American invention
is a crude thing after all, unscientific in design and faulty
in construction. If Mr. Colin Defries is wise he yvill not
attempt to “go up” till the monoplane that was re-
cently shipped to Messrs. Tait Bros, comes to hand. The
aeroplane that he has now is dangerous—very dangerous
indeed. How badly it is constructed was evidenced on
Saturday, when the propellers collided with the rudder
wires and smashed them. Such a thing should be just
plain impossible. But that is not its worst fault. Owing
to its crude and faulty design it lacks longitudinal stabi-
lity. That is to say, not only has the aviator to balance
himself sideways, but endways also. The thing- is too short,
and is, in fact, like a bird which has been chopped off be-
hind close up to its legs. Even a bird would find flying-diffi-
cult if it were built that way. Having no body, the machine
has no dead centre of gravity, and its longitudinal stability
depends absolutely on the balancing skill of the aviator,
and the keeping of the balance requires constant effort.
One false movement and the balance is lost, and the
results may be disastrous. They have already proved so.
The Wright Brothers seem to have evolved their machines
on empiric lines—doing certain things and watching
what happened. The French investigators first ascer-
tained what was required, and then set themselves to
devise a means of doing it. The Wrights had no scientific
education: they were tradesmen engaged in building
bikes ; and although, under any circumstances, they
must be given every credit for what they have done, the
fact remains that their type of aeroplane is dangerous
and unscientific.
• * * •
Hubert Latham is the hero of the aviation
world just now on the strength of that terrific perform-
ance of his at Blackpool (Eng.) recently. On the Thurs-
day part of his machine, in rising, struck some obstruc-
tion, and, smashing, put him out of action till the next
afternoon. People were speaking of his bad luck and
commiserating with him. He could stand derision, but
sympathy killed him, and he announced that he would
fly on the Friday afternoon, no matter what happened.
When the time arrived it was blowing a howling 40-mile
gale. Turning on the full power Latham drove his machine
in the very teeth of it, and managed to struggle along at
the rate of about six miles an hour. It was a marvellous
display ; the monoplane seemed to be buffeted by in-
visible waves, and to plough its way through a ghostly
sea. Sometimes it was swept chains out of its course,
and thousands of people held their breath and waited to
see him smashed. But every time he came back to the
course, and, after what seemed a young eternity, reached
the turning point. Men howled to him to descend and
not risk it ; and the officials tried to telegraph the same
advice to him. But Latham was intent on his mono-
plane, or if he saw the signals took no heed. Then, with
a sudden swing, he turned, and, swooping down, flashed
past the spectators at a speed that worked out at about
75 miles an hour, and once more facing the wind came to
the ground safely. It was an amazing and historic per-
formance, the deed of a hero.
And Latham does not look a hero—very few of
the breed dp. The most heroic-looking men are generally
beauty actors. Latham is only 24, very slight, of medium
height, with sallow complexion and a stoop. He is the
most daring of the aviators, and has twice been fished out
of the Channel while trying to fly across it. He holds the
world’s record for both speed and height on an aeroplane,
and his brother aviators regard him as the incarnation of
reckless courage.
* * * *
The arrangements for the meeting between
Fitzsimmons and Lang are now complete, down to the
last button on the white coat of the last Stadium
attendant. The box office is open at 100 King-street,
Sydney, and prices are £5, £3, £2, £ l, 10s. and ss. The
scrap takes place on the morning of Boxing Day, and a
special tram service has been arranged for. The officer
in charge of the police Will be Superintendent Mitchell,
of the Metropolitan Division, and. he will have 250 men
under his command.
* * * *
An attractive feature of the Fitzsimmons train-
ing operations will be the sparring match between him
and Tahmmy Burns at the Stadium next Saturday after-
noon ; and, judging by the rush of applications for seats
even at this early date, there is going to be a big crowd
to watch the two ex-champions.
•** * *
The novice boxing competition at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday, combined with the Fitzsimmons
display, drew a considerable crowd, a good half of it
female. The novices', put up some savage four-round
scraps and dealt out stoush in great style. Most of them
being lightweights, the women did not take them seri-
ously, and as one novice crawled out between the ropes
with his nose in a sling and a large mouse over his eve,
one sweet young thing inquired when the real fighting
was going to begin. They are funny, these novice's. One
gentleman when he found things growing too sultry used
to step outside the ropes. This exasperated his lighter
opponent, . who . followed him at last, and occa-
sionally knocked him through the ropes to save him the
trouble of going by his own effort. Another
humorous act was a scrap between a Jew and
an Irishman. The Jew was an excellent made
fighter, but Paddy was born to the game ; and after
winning all the way on points he knocked his friend
through the ropes, seized his neck and seemingly
tried to break it, whereupon the unappreciative “Snowy”
Baker outed him on a foul. When Fitzsimmons came on
there was considerable cheering, and Robert beamed.
“The Freckled Freak” is as “white as the lily,” as an
enthusiastic Syrian put it, but is apparently in the best
condition possible. His sparring- with Baker was a fine
sight, especially the last scene where in a wild rally both
men w r ent to the boards with every appearance of being
knocked out. Both Fitz and Baker are evidently as good
actors as they are boxers.
Lang is under the impression that it is infra dig.
for him to attend Fitz’s training exhibitions; but it is
whispered that on Saturday he was in the audience,
incog., and would not have been recognised had he not
cheered his rival so lustily. He is not yet fit to enter
the ring, but is shedding the surplus adipose at a con-
vincing rate. Feeling is very much diiided, the patriotic
bruise-followers claiming that if Fitz wins it will be, after
all, a case of an Australian being outed by a man who is
virtually an Australian. But it certainly will be a dread-
ful thing if the best we have goes down to a battle-scarred
veteran like Fitz. It is going to be a struggle between
mature age and splendid science on the one side, and
youth and considerable brute force on the other.
» » * *
Those two important but rather wearisome
gentlemen, Messrs. Jeffries and Johnson, have at last
agreed upon the conditions under which they will frac-
ture the peace, even if they do not hurt one another.
Johnson appears to have been much the more anxious for
the scrap. Jeffries wanted a side-bet of 20,000 dollars •
Johnson demurred. “ I’d like to get that 20,000 dollars,”
said the great man. “ And I don’t want you to get it,
Mr. Jeffries,” grinned Johnson. “ What "about letting
the 5000 dollars we have already posted stand as
the side-wager?” Seeing he could get no more,
Jeffries agreed. Then he desired that the winner
should take all the gate, and Johnson was wil-
ling; but his manager inquired if bruising was a
business, or a pastime for millionaires, and he decided
that it was a money-making business, pure and simple.
Therefore the gate must be divided on the 75 and 25 per
cent, basis. Agreed upon. Jeffries did not seem to be
over-keen on thut matter. The only new thing about
the discussion was the revelation that Jeffries’ father is a
clergyman of the Scotchlryterian persuasion. Which
may account for a lot of things. Writer’s impression is
that if the scrap ever does come off Jeffries will be ex-
ceedingly glad he was not too obdurate about that divi-
sion of the purse. A parson’s son who has been out of
the game as long as Jeffries has is not likely to recover
his old form.
* * * *
The O’Keefe-Bill Turner scrap at Sydney
Stadium last week was a ding-dong, stand-and-smash
contest which drove the spectators fairly wild with ex-
citement. Turner is the heavyweight champion of Tas-
mania, and O’Keefe is Tommy Burns’ trainer. Fitz-
simmons and Tahmmy were present, and were supposed
to be backing up the rivals ; but they acted with becom-
ing modesty and suppressed themselves severely. There
was not much to spare between the bruisers, but O’Keefe
had the fraction of an ounce to the good at the end of the
majority of the rounds, and when the 19th was rung on he
was a winner on points. Turner’s facility for getting out of
what looked like absolutely fatal corners was wonderful,
and with proper training he would make a very fine
fighter indeed. In the 19th O’Keefe got home a right
swing and a left hook, both on the jaw, and the Tasmanian
went down with a terrific smash, staying on the floor
eight seconds. When he got up he evaded all he could,
and the gong came to his rescue. The 20th round opened
gloomily for Turner. He was still dazed, and O’Keefe got
busy at once, banging and bashing unmercifullv till the
referee, to save further slaughter, stopped the fight and
gave O’Keefe the decision.
* * * *
The Austral Wheel Race made a hesitating
start on December 4 at the Melbourne Ground. Four
heats of the mile handicap happened on a greasy track ;
then some of Shackleton’s weather advanced, and the
cyele-cwm-balloon show was turned off. Those who put
in their nimble bobs received a check for the next
Saturday. The postponement was a turn up for
John Wren’s pony races at Richmond. Crowds left
the Cricket Ground and made a bee-line for the pony
course, where the gee-gees don’t skid in rounding the
turns.
* ♦ * *
The first section of the social function that is
partly balloon, partly Austral Wheel Race and partly
brass band, took place on the Melbourne ground last
Saturday, when glorious weather and the added novelty
of certain toy-aeroplane contests drew 20,000 spectators.
The ’planes were of all shapes and sizes—some wouldn’t
go into a family sepulchre, while others could be covered
by a handkerchief—andthemotive power ran from rubber
bands to petrol and electricity. Most of the 80 excited
more amusement than interest, only two doing anything
like an extended “ flight.” They were both driven
by wound-up rubber cables, and as the rubber cable
isn’t a serious proposition in connection with aeroplanes,
the M. 8.0. cannot congratulate itself on having advanced
aviation to any extent. Between" these demonstrations
the minor heats of the Austral were performed, all the
winners save A. J. Davies starting from between 100yds.
and the limit. Thomas, Horder, Goullet, J. Campbell
and G. Walker did their dashes from scratch, but failed
to reach the other end of the procession. Taking it by
and large, it was a solemn day’s sport, even Penfold’s
balloon ascent being depressing and unsatisfactory. The
final act was to be the ascent of Pen. and Miss Mostyn,
followed by a simultaneous parachute race to earth bv
the rash couple ; hut when the balloon got half expanded
a top seam came unstiched, the air escaped, the machine
collapsed like a squashed tomato, and people went home
dour and disgusted.
* *■ * *
The yachtsmen on Port Jackson struck ideal
weather for racing- on Saturday, and had a revelsome
time, in which close finishes were the order of the day.
It was a Prince Alfred afternoon, and eight faced the
marker. Some of them, anticipating a big blow, had
come out rigged for storm conditions, and found to their
disgust that the breeze was just It, or, if anything, on
the weak side. After crossing the Heads the hreeze
dropped, and a regular succession of changes took place.
Rawhiti, on scratch, drove the whole fleet in front of it,
till on the last lap Mr. Brockhoff began to cut down his
competitors one by one. and eventually crossed the line a
comfortable winner, with Petrel and Yeulba second and
third.
The 18ft. championship of the Sydney Sailing
Club was a foregone conclusion. No matter how often
Chris. Webb may be beaten in handicaps and general
races, when the championship is at stake the grand old
veteran is right on the spot, and romps the old Aus-
tralian home.' On the wind, or off it, ’twas all the same
to skipper Webb ; Australian ran on, leading from start
to finish, and giving nothing else a show. In fact, the
only boat that put up a fight was Eileen, which beat all
others with the greatest ease, and was followed home at a
long interval by the Nimrod—which in this case was a
mighty hunter, hunting the two winning boats all the
way.
* ■
Two Adelaide bowling feats. Parliament, in
its annual match with the Press, tumbled the newspaper
men out for 38 and 26 ; Coombe, Minister of Lands, took
six wickets for 21 and six for 11. In more serious cricket,
Wright and Travers, treated lately by the State selectors
as mere has-beens, have been making hay. They play for
the same district, and they lately got out astror.g batting
team of University for 49 and 60 in one afternoon.
Travers’ bag was eight for 66, and Wright’s 11 for 43.
* * *. •
Public interest in cricket in S. A. seems to be
dwindling just as the local standard of play improves.
With O’Connor, Whitty and Crawford dropped into the
team which lately beat Victoria by an innings, the State
XI. should be pretty strong, with a sporting chance of
taking the Sheffield Shield for the first time since 1893-4.
But the public will not pay to watch. The attendance
at the recent inter-State match was miserable, and at the
Saturday club games it is so inconsiderable that the Asso-
ciation hasstarted throwing all the district “Ovals” open
free of charge. (Every sports-ground is an OvalinS.A.)
The feature of Saturday’s cricket in Sydney
was the batting of Burwood and North Sydney. Against
Eedfern Burwood smacked up 374 for six wickets, and
the fact that M'Mullen’s 105 was the only century proves
the solid nature of the whole of the batting. Small
carried his bat for 81, and the other scores ranged from
good old Sundries 11 to Docker’s 50. North Sydney went
fairly baresark. Or, rather, Norman Deane and Moore
did ; the latter making 139 and Deane carrying his bat for
122. Alphabetical White contributed a modest 46, Bubb
40, and for five wickets down the side accumulated 373.
For the rest, Petersham made 274, and Paddington
responded with 88 for six wickets ; University totted up
243, and then got one Glebe batsman out for 48 ; Gordon
left 191 on the board against Waverley, which responded
with 106 for one wicket. Sydney made 202 a. ainst
Central Cumberland, and C. Cumberland made Sydney’s
chances look hopeless by scoring 110 without losing a stick.
Among the bowlers, Howard (of Waverley) was
easily best, taking four Gordon sticks for 15 runs. He
was, in fact, the only bowler of note on the day, the next
two best being Pye (of Central Cumberland), with three
Sydney wickets for 34, and Hill (of Waverley), who got
three of Gordon’s for 37. The rest were nowhere.
• * * *
The round which finished in Melbourne Pen-
nant cricket last Saturday was noted for some excep-
tional gaiety with the bat. Lampard and Smith, of Rich-
mond, made 145 not out and 115 respectively ; Healy, of
P’ran, compiled 127; Warne, of Carlton," hit up 117;
Carroll, of East Melbourne, totalled 102 ; and Kierman,
of Fitzroy, aggregated 99 not out. With such exhibitions
the various matches were fairly vigorous, and spectators
at most of the grounds had an unusually cheerful
time. At Richmond the local team responded to Essen-
don’s 177 with three wickets for 341, walloped up in a
little over three hours, and thus won by seven wickets
and 164 runs. East Melbourne, being requested to
surpass University’s 231, just accomplished it on
time with three wickets And a run to spare.
South Melbourne could only score 210 in all to
Carlton’s seven for 257 (declared closed), so that Carlton
was victorious by 47 runs. P’ran put up the shutters
with nine down for 241 ; but, Fitzroy replying heartily
with 168 for five wickets, the match ended in a draw. St.
Kilda against Melbourne made 128 to Melbourne’s miser-
able score of 113, and hence had a frantic win by 15 runs.
Oollingwood against North Melbourne closed down too
early with eight for 153, for North retorted with 171,
thus conquering ’Wood by the small margin of 18 runs.
* * * *
J. N. Crawford, imported from England to fill
the r6le of teacher in a South Australian college, had a
trial spurt in S.A. cricket on Saturday. Playing for East
Torrens against Adelaide, he took six wickets for 39 runs
in a total score of 99. South Oss reckons Crawford is the
man it has been looking for.
# * • *
The Timaru to Christchurch (M.L.) cycle road-
race has 1-ft trouble behind it. Two competitors received
the brand of Cain for accepting motor-car pace, while
another has to “show cause” over a similar fall from grace.
Jack Arnst, for accepting pacing from brother Dick (after
Dick had ceased to be a competitor in the race), is also
bereft of the glory of his record ride. Maoriland cycle air
is filled with further alleged trouble, mingled with the
curses of the up-turned cyclists.
• * • *
The Australian sprint nyelisb A. J. Clarke is
now admittedly the fastest known wheeler on earth. The
Yankee sporting papers are poking rather bitter
satire at Kramer, who rode alone in the American Cham-
pionship race for 1909. He is styled the “Technical
Champion,” because, when called upon to defend his
supremacy, he made such impossible conditions that no
one would meet him. So Clarke and others stood down,
and Kramer sprinted over the course arid claimed the
award. He got it, but the roasting he is receiving pro-
bably makes him wish he could drop the thing. Later on
Clarke had his chance of revenge when meeting Kramer
in a three-corrtered duel. The Yankee god a good lead,
but in the straight Clarke came with a terrific burst of
speed and beat the “Technical Champion” easily, by
three-quarters of a length. Later on in the day he again
met Kramer over a three-miles scratch race, and downed
both him and Lawson in 6min. llsec.
* •* * *
| H. A. Collier’s 24-hours’ motor-cycle track
Record of 775 miles 1340 yards has been badly smashed by
Yankee C. S. Spencer, who has been credited with riding
1089 miles 199 yards in the same time. To chip 314 miles
off a man’s record for a day’s riding is an offensive thing ;
hut these Yankees are quite devoid of finer feelings,
heedless to say, the new record was put up in the States,
on the new racing track at Springfield, Mass.
’ I * * ' * *
: The Dunlop Rubber Co.’s usual artistic calen-
dar for 1910 is about the best the co. has so far produced,
vyhich is saying a great deal. The subject is a charming
portrait of the evergreen Miss Nellie Stewart; and the
composition, execution and everything connected with
the picture' prove conclusively that Australia can now do
art printing as well as anybody in the world.
In vouchsafing Melbourne an exhibition tennis
match against Dunlop and Heath, the Davis Cup
challengers, Long and McLoughlin, ran the risk of scorch-
ing their already-faded laurels; and Saturday savy the
said bay-leaves shrivelled right up. The Victorians were at
the top of their form, and so was McLoughlin ; but Long,
though he got going in the doubles, was quite a couple of
aces below his Davis Cup exhibition. In his singles
against Dunlop the scores show the slack nature of his
game: 6—l, 6—3. McLoughlin made a harder fight
against Heath, the first set only going to the
latter at 10 —8. In the second the American
went off at a great bat, s—o being the tally, when Heath
grabbed the occasion by the neck, and scored seven
games in succession from McLoughlin, thus winning the
set at 7—5 and the rubber. California showed better in
the doubles, the first set being Victoria’s (7—5), the
second going to the visitors (6—4), and the last to the
locals (6 —3). So Victoria won the rubber and the match.
* * * *
George Towns, who is now a better boat-builder
than a sculler, had a big record in the recent Foxton
(M.L.) handicap. Of the 12 entrants, nine competed
in boats made by him ; two raced in M.L.-built boats ;
and the other in a boat built by C. Neilsen (N.S. W.).
* * * *
Exemptions from jury service run in all shapes,
and in Maoriland recently 'is ’Onah broke all records.
The applicant was a jockey who explained he was engaged
to ride in a race,at Timaru thesnext day, and he could
not be in two places at once. ’ls ’Onah fell off the Bench
in his haste to remove any obstruction to good sport.
- . *j - » *
The “John Young” Memorial Shield—which
keeps the memory of a departed bowling enthusiast green
—stirred up much dust in Sydney recently. Conditions
arej that the team accumulating the largest majority
ovbr its opponents takes the trophy for 12 months. The
outcome of the scramble was that Chatswood succeeded
with a big majority of 101 over Ku-rin-gai, with St.
Gebrge well up for second honors with an 82 majority.
The struggle for the Shield, however, wasn’t a success—
there were too many weak teams in it, which help the
crack clubs to a mammoth majority. The N.S. W. B.A.
would act wisely to eliminate all the second-rate teams ;
then, with fewer teams but of better quality, the Shield
would carry greater interest.
* * * *
There was a bowls match recently between Press
and Parliament at the Sydney Legislative establishment;
and there was a sinister suggestion in the fact that the
legislators were routed. Evidently the Press will con-
tinue to rule with an iron pen.
•» * * *
Albert Park and South Melbourne, which had
dead-heated for the four-oared championship, stirred the
same old murky Yarra again on the following Saturday.
With a tail wind pursuing ’em in gusts, Charlie Donald
and his boatload of old ’uns made things busy all the w'ay.
aud secured a threequarter length verdict from
in 13min. 30sec. On the same wet streak D. and Y V"
Murray’s crew captured the Warehousemen’s paddle from
Robert Reid’s lot, while Sargood’s chased the other rag-
importers home.
* * * *
C. Seeling, the big “All Black” forward, left
Auckland last week for Britain. He has been engaged for
Wigan, the same Northern Union club that L. B. Todd
(the ex-Auckland rep.) has been working for during the
past two seasons.
* * * *
George Hackenschmidt is due to display his
muscular magnificence at the Melbourne Town Hall on
Boxing Night. George will pose on a pedestal while a,
lecturer pokes him with a stick and describes his various
muscles ; and “Gooner” Moir, Herman and a number of
other persons will assist in the gentle exercises. The
strenuous part of the show will occur on the cinemato-
graph sheet, where the ponderous Russian will be seen
grappling with the “Hungry Hun” or the “Terrible
Turk.”
* * * *
Regarding the contest between Hack, and
Gotch, every effort is being made by the Melbourne pro-
moters to force Gotch to adhere to his signed agreement
to wrestle Hackenschmidt in Australia in January for the
world’s championship. Hackenschmidt left Africa for
Australia by the Wilcannia, due in Melbourne on De-
cember 22 ; but so far no word has been received as to
Gotch’s departure from America, and the chances are
that no word ever will be received about it.
Concerning an Australian invention which
is going to revolutionise things: —
A cable published a few days ago said that the Silver-
town Co., of London, had taken up the Bleeck-Love
electric battery ; and, as the Silvertown Co. is about the
biggest of all British manufacturers of electrical appara-
tus, this puts a sort of hall-mark on an Australian
invention about which only vague remarks have hitherto
been made on the authority of people in Brisbane,
where the thing was originall}- hatched. W. A. F.
Bleeck, the inventor, used to be in the tele-
graph service there; Love, the other man whose
name the patent bears, is a member of the well-
known Isles-Love firm, and is chairman of the small co.
which has been financing the invention. Bleeck himself
has recently been to London. Previously he had inter-
ested the Silvertown Co. in the invention, and when he
got on to the spot, that huge concern put its works at
his disposal, and after he had shown what the battery
could do under strict test conditions, it not only took
over the British patents, but proceeded to rush out a
supply of the cells. Moreover, it apparently reckoned
that it had got hold of something good for, accord-
ing to latest advices, it is tearing out the accumulators
from its electric vehicles and putting in the Bleeck-Love
cells, having found that they have double the capacity,
though only weighing half as much. Chairman Love’s
idea is that this Australian invention is going to take
electricity into thousands of places where it has never
got hitherto. The battery is a small double-fluid cell,
and crude models, working under test conditions, have
given as high as 2’79.v01ts ; while, besides high voltage,
the cell lasts so long that it gives five or six times more
current, it is claimed, than any other primary cell of the
same size. Further, it can be charged and re-
charged ; all you need is a supply of “ cart-
ridges ” and a small quantity of water. The
thing is as easy to manipulate as a kerosene
lamp. Professor Lyle, of Melbourne University, made
various tests, and described it as “wonderful.” Looking
ahead a bit the inventors see pretty well every cottage
getting in a cell or two just the same as nowadays they
get in a pound or two of candles; and the cells
will provide light and power for domestic purposes.
Also, it is said, it is going to simplify and cheapen
“wireless.” All the explorer or prospector will have
to do is to take a small battery with him and
the other light telegraphic apparatus, and he will he able
to report progress any time he likes. The Naval Com-
mandant used a battery of 20cells at the last encampment
at Cleveland, near Brisbane ; for six days a current of 6£
amperes was taken intermittently, with the result that
at the end of the period the collective power of 23’2 volts
was only reduced to 22 volts. Electricians almost gasp at
some of the claims made on behalf of the cells ; but Pro-
fessor Lyle’s report and the fact that the Silvertown Co.
has taken up the invention in England make it certain
enough that it is something quite out of the common.


Beauty’s Favourite
The article which excels all others
in improving; the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This Has been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent deg'ree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Java-Australia Line
OF THE
ROYAL DUTCH PACKET COMPANY.
Full-powered, modern passenger Steamers, specially built and equipped
for voyaging in the Tropics.
An ideal pleasure trip—smooth water everywhere, via Torres Straits.
Splendid scenery throughout the voyage. Electric Lights and Fans installed.
First and Steerage passengers carried.
All modern conveniences. English spoken on board. .English
Stewardess carried. Passenger Accommodation Amidships,
1
mm
.v"
:;k 1
"MAT-- - 'P*■
Steamers will be despatched from Sydney as follows:
S.S. BAUD, December 29th, 1909.
S.S. VAN DER HAGEN, January 27th, 1910.
Thence every four weeks, calling at PORT MORESBY, DOBO,
MACASSAR, SOURABAYA, SAMARANG and BATAVIA, ' via
Queensland ports. The round trip can be made in 48 days, including
eight days’ stay in Java. For Booklets, Titrie Tables, and~alT further
information apply:—
AGENTSMessrs. Mcllwraith, McEacharn & Co. Ltd., Adelaide; John
Sanderson & Co. Melbourne; Birt & Co. Ltd., South
Brisbane; Adelaide S.S. Co., Townsville; Bowden Bros.,
Thursday Island; Earp Bros., Ltd., Newcastle; C. R„ Baldwin
& Co., Pt. Moresby.
L. E. COCHERET, Managing Agent tor Australia,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 953 City.
At
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
•* AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
everybody can use it.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
J
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Siraps, etc , it
is the •• Awl-you-want." Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins etc-
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight— 1 reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras • Cotton
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent) ad ’
post free; 2 for 711., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne!
We wish you
A HAPPY XMAS.
This will be assured to you “if” j-ou use
“SHELL”
SPIRIT
WHEN TOURING.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
POLICY foii the COMMON WE ALT H
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
■The RIGNEY Shoes for Men
Perfect footwear satisfaction is embodied in every
shoe we sell.
If you want footwear with a style and character
you will get it in the Rigney Shoes for Men.
It s distinctively high-grade footwear.
Ihe shoe we illustrate is a Tan Willow Calf Derby
Shoe, fine stitched welts—an extremely com-
fortable shoe.
Price 21f-
ALSO IN BLACK, SAME PRICE.
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE GO.
ķ
The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,
305 GEORGE STREET
(Between Hunter Street
and Martin Place),
SYDNEY
Write for our Catalogue, and
mention The Bulletin.
COAL’S DEAR !
Help the Railway Commissioners to spin out their supply by taking
to a cycle instead—a good cycle—one that won’t always be in the
repair shop every week—for instance,
The B. and B. MODEL 3 at £,ll
will suit you. Best British parts—first-class tyres—guarantee, 12 months—£ll.
Our Pitt Street Dep6t is open every Friday till 9 p.m.
BENNETT & BRRKELL,
Specialists in Modern
Cycle Buildin
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
With ■ the, 'etnpfimaib of
The VunTop ftuUer (6.
©k£sSl-
iki * I j
, ' t
Mon. Tue. Ved. Thu. Tri *:
If Ota;
'ft jee.
T >
BEAUTIFUL ART CALENDAR for 1910
(MISS NELLIE STEWART)
The Dunlop Rubber Co. beg to announce that they have decided to give admirers of Miss Nellie
Stewart an opportunity of obtaining a copy of the above beautiful Art Calendar, the finest pro-
duction of its kind yet seen in Australasia. Size 20% in. x 30in., exquisitely mounted and
printed in soft, brown tones. Only a limited number available to the public at 1/9 each (money
or stamps), which will cover cost of postage in mailing tube, or 16 if called for. An early ap-
plication is necessary to ensure obtaining one of these lovely Calendars.
CO., 108 Flinders St., Melbourne; 255 Clarence St., Sydney; 92 Pirie St.,
> Adelaide ; 268-270 Adelaide St., Brisbane ; 67 King St., Perth ; Worcester St., Christchurch, N.Z.


OPEN
fAOE,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black, Open-
faced, Heart-shaped,
KEYLESS WATCHES,
fancy hands and dial,
strong and accurate
timekeepers,
21/.
Higher grade, 25/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/-
XMAS PRESENTS
“What to give for Xmas” is your main thought at the present time. Here are a number of
Useful Suggestions, and you’d do well to order at once, so as to avoid possible disappointment.
Write for a Copy of our 1909 XMAS CATALOGUE, sent, Post Free, to any address in Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold BRACELET, set with Diamonds and Rubies,
£2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Fancy Bar and Bird BROOCH
set with Redstone, Turquoise, and Green
stone, chain and heart attached,
12/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold BRACELET, set with Diamonds
•md Rubies,
£2/15/.
SOLID
GOLD,
£4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold
Half-hunting’ KEYLESS
WATCHES, fully jewel-
led,, compensation bal-
ance, extra heavy,
£4-
Higher grade, £4/10/,
£5, £6/10/. Guar-
anteed with a writ-
ten certificate.
HIGHER
GRADE,
£4/10
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral BROOCH, set
Ruby, Sapphire, or Turquoise,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray BROOU”,
set Ruby, Sapphire, or Tur-
quoise, '6/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Sovereign PURSE, silver-filled, to hold
5 Sovereigns,
5/6-
Solid Silver, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Gold Filled, 15/, 20/, 25/, SO/. In Oct
Gold, £2/7/6. 15ct Gold, £3/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Set with
Pearls and Ruby, or Sapphire,
15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold, Set
Fine Double-Cut
Diamonds and Rub-
ies or Sapphires,
£3/10/,
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUND'ERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£l3/10/.
With . Emeralds,
£l5.
All Diamonds,
£2O.
9ct Gold
Scarf Pin,
Set Pear.s
and Peridot,
10/(5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9:'t Gold PEN-
DANT, Set with
Pearls and Tur-
quoise,
aa/c
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct' Gold NECKLET, every style, 12/6, 15/,
17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/. 15et Gold, 30/, 35/, 40/.
9ct Gold Muff Chains, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/,
£4, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/. In 15ct Gold,
£4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless
about WATCH, Non-magnetic,
Adjusted Balance, Dust and
proof Cases,
20/.
Knock-
Patent
Water
OPEN
FACE,
15/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
20/
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCHBOX, richly
hand-engraved,
6/6
Larger, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
Smaller, 4/6, 5/6. 9ct Gold, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oet Gold PEN-
DANT, Pearls and
Rubies, Amethysts
or Turquoises,
1
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold
Scarf Pin,
Set Pearls
and Peridot,
10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Bird Heart and
Spray BROOCH,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold I'loiai H-aar Spray
BROOCH, set Redstone, Greenstone,
or Turquoise,
S /«•
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold 2-Br BROOCH, set Dia
monds and Rubies or Sapphires,
-»/•
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
Fine Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l5.
Diamonds and
Emeralds, £l7/10/.
iH
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Uold, set
with Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires,
or Opals,
£3/10/,
Diamonds and
Olivines, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FOUNTAIN PEN, Sterling Silver Mounted, “Paul E.
Wert’’ or “Glide Easy,” 15/. 14ct Gold Nib, plain
7/6; other styles, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.'
9et Gold Band BRACELET, Richly Embossed Floral
Design,: with Safety Chain,
30/.
Other styles 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 60/.
Higher grade, 25/, 30/. Guaranteed
for 15 years, and kept in repair, free
of cost, for one year.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold NECKLACE,
Bet with Pearls and Rubies,
or Turquoise,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Pure
Diamond Band RING,
£2.
Larger Diamond.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold WED-
DING RING,
IK/.
15et Gold, 25/.
18et Gold, 30/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Set Fine Pure Golden Sapphires,
£5.
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires, £l2/10/. All
Diamonds, £l6, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Nellie Stewart,” Secret Snap BRACELET,
£2/15/.
Wid-r, £3. 15ot Gold, £3/10/, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Turquoise,
32/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold PIN
and Wishbone
CHARM, 5/6.
Larger 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver HAT-
PIN, Strong
Steel Stem.
1/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Collar STUD,
5/0, 6/6; 15ct Gold, 8/6,
10/; Silver,- 1/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold LINKS,
Heart and Dumbbell,
20/-.
Smaller size, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
WATCHES, Engine-turned Cases, f-
plate Lever movement, fully Jewelled,
patent adjusted balance,
'i£ 2/-/--
Higher grade, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-, £6. In Solid Gold,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/- to £5O.
Guaranteed for 2,3, 4,5, and 6 years.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2/-/-.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS,
Shield and Dumbbell,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Double Opal
HEART and 3 Diamonds,
£4/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver HAT-
PIN, Strong
Steel Stem.
9ct Gold
Pin and
CHARM,
4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Tur-
quoise,
£2/-/-.
a*
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Bar BROOCH, set with Dia-
mond, Cut Amethyst Centre,
17/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold 1,-lloop
RING, set with five
Pure Opals,
£2/10/-.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
with fine, large,
double-cut Dia-
mond,
£«/-/-.
Smaller Diamond
£3.
WITH THE EXCEPTION
OP CLOCKS AND CHINA-
WARE WE SEND ALL
GOODS CARRIAGE PAID
I'O ANY PART OP THC
COUNTRY.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Double Curb ALBERT, made in our own workshop, £3. Heavier, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/- £5/10/-
£6/10/-, £7/10/-. 15ct Gold, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-. In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 20/. In I4ct Patent Gold-filled, Guaranteed, 20/, 25/, 30/. Any special design made to order.
OUR SYSTEM OF FREE
CARRIAGE ON GOODS
TO ANY PART OF AUS-
TRALASIA MEANS A BIG
SAVING TO YOU.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pure
Double Cut Diamond,
£2/-/-.
Larger Diamond, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
<M Gold Sisrnet
RING, 20/-; 15ct
Gold, £2; IBct
Gold, £2/10/-. Ini-
tials engraved free.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Claw-set
RING, Garnet, Ame-
thyst, Opal, or To-
paz 25/-; 15ct Gold,
£2; 18ct Gold,
£2/10/-.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


hd tr
HD
Omni
ST
Sargents’ Xmas Greeting's.
The near approach of the festive Xmas season suggests to us that it is
our pleasant duty to once more extend our sincere thanks and our very
hearty good wishes for “ A Happy Xmas and a Bright New Year ” to the
many thousands of customers who have so generously extended us their
patronage during the past year.
It also suggests to YOU the need of securing your Xmas Pudding,
without which no Xmas Dinner would be complete.
Why trouble to make your own this hot and busy season when you
can procure one of
Sarg'ents’ Xmas Pudding's,
which are made from the highest grade of ingredients the world produces—
wholesome, appetising and delicious.
Sargents’ Xmas Puddings may be obtained at any of our shops at 2/6
and 5/- each.
Each one sold is enclosed in a dainty basin, and is backed by our
guarantee for “ QUALITY.”
Sarg'ents’ Xmas Cakes.
There is nothing “ quite as good ” as Sargents’ Xmas Cakes.
They are the result of a scientific mixing of delicious products,
perfectly baked.
They look tempting, and are tempting—rich and delightfully 44 tasty ”
of Sargents’ High Quality, of course, and economical to buy.
PRICES.
ICED ON TOP ONLY (In sizes from 2/6 upwards) ... 1/3 per lb.
ICED ALL OVER (In sizes from 4/6 upwards) ... ... 1/6 per lb.
WITHOUT ICING (Any size) 1/- per lb.
Sarg'ents’ Mince Pies.
These toothsome delicacies are perfectly made, the pastry is light and
crisp, and the price we sell them at —2/- per dozen —brings them within
the reach of all.
SARGENTS’ SUPERIOR SERVICE.
SARGENTS’ is now firmly established in popular
regard as the most convenient and pleasant place for
Luncheons, Dinners, Afternoon Teas, etc. Everything
possible has been done to make the Cafes in Sydney and
Melbourne ideal in every respect. The dining rooms are
spacious and cool ; beautifully furnished and decorated ;
while the table appointments are of the finest. The
season’s daintiest dishes are placed before the Cafe’s
patrons, whose requirements are quickly and courteously
served by the large staff of assistants.
Dine at Sargents’, and you dine well.
= COMFORT ACCESSORIES. =
For the convenience of Ladies, there is a Suite of Toilet
Rooms, and a comfortable Smoke Lounge for Gentlemen
—all at no extra charge whatever.
* \tfi
V
~*r > y
. ;V
; & / O -
%*? i " ‘
A/'Oj
/
<1
«1
\x
r.
»
ss®
f«.
RSs*
%!P*»
■
jtrt*.
3S.
M 1 ■■'
l*ir,f
WS/
**
H ■
«
«%•«*»
mm
’£ss, v
«sr«
SR
SARGENTS’ WEDDING CAKE.
The excellence of a “ Sargent ” Wedding Cake cannot be
over estimated. A proof of its perfection is clearly shown
in the increasing demand, not oniy in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, but practically all over the Commonwealth.
Its superior quality is largely due to the select
recipe and the particular way in which it is prepared.
Every cake is made from the choicest of ingredients,
which are mixed and baked by the most modern methods.
Whatever design of Cake is decided upon, whether it
be simple or elaborate, of either one, two or three tiers,
there is not the least difference in the quality—each
possesses the same deliciousness of taste. We are also
Specialists in Birthday and Christening Cakes. Prices
most reasonable.
SARGENTS LTD.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY s Head Office, 252 Pitt Street
(’Phone-Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering, 4250),
MELBOURNE : 28-32 Elizabeth Street
(’Phone- City, 1344)*


THE
HYDRO-MAJESTIC, MEDLOW BATH
• • l.
The most perfect Beauty Spot of the wonderful Blue Mountains.
> V
"'T v
- 'it w
" J 5 *'
lomnfßWiiin®
GENERAL VIEW OF THE FAMOUS HYDRO-MAJESTIC, MEDLOW BATH, N.S.W.
X Hydro-Majestic, the famous Blue Mountain Home, is best described as a palace in a wilderness of mountains, streams and flowers. It
l combines he comforts of a First-class Hotel, with its Motor Cars. Ravine Railways, Lounge, Card and Ball Rooms, Casino, Colonnades,
. . e "' ace ‘ wa ks and sparkling fountains, with the luxurious furnishings and Art Galleries of a Palace Nature has concentrated her most
health a S -1° P recl P lce aa ravine with the soft charm of peaceful valley and flowering mountain slopes To those seeking permanent
HvZ’mZT' l,r “ mg ; pl:a “ T ‘ he world ’ or search ldea l a "d incomparable scenes of grandeur and beauty, no place is equal to the
or He , w n ?• ? aUt ' fU ,' B '“ e Mountalns A " modern comforts are at command, and the natural scenic effects at sunrise, noon
for a g ferm t eSCnp lOrL “ ' ,f tanff and fares and descriptive brochure sent on application This magnificent property has been leased
tor a term of many years to Mr. W. H. Burgess.
Sole Lessee -
BURGESS, late of Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
Inter-State Clients are asked to
make P.O. Orders and Postal Notes
payable at North Melbourne.
No. 2001-Charming- Hat, in Colored Straws, elaborate trim-
mings of Banksia Roses, Foliage, small Flowers and
Ribbon, 14/6.
T : '
8: v:* *
110. 2006—A Favored Mode, in Pretty Plaits, Rich Drawings of folded
Silk, finished as depicted, 10/6.
Write for “LE DERNIER CRI con-
tains 1000 beautiful illustrations
of the latest fashions—Gratis.
Sketches from the
Showroom Parlors
AT
FITZ.’S
ĸ
State clearly
means of
t r a n s i t,
giving - full
address.
No. 2097 —An Effective Skirt, in the season’s cloths or tweeds,
smartly trimmed with braid, as shown, and gathered at back’
lined throughout; to order, 27/6. Also in best linens, 20/-
Samples and
Estimates for
any Garment
always sent by
return post.
Fitzgerald Bros.,
Drapers, Importers, Manufacturers,
NORTH MELBOURNE.
Every article as advertised.
No exaggeration.
No misrepresentation.
No. 2037—Elegant Mode!, carried nut in drawn Net,
crown composed of richly massed Roses and
Foliage, finished smartly with Ribbon, 15/6.
m
No. 2000—Parisian Mode, in Straws, with draping
of rich Charmeuse and Ornament to finish, 9/11.
FREE CARRIAGE throughout Victoria
on £1 parcels
by rail or boat only.


KODAK
m
W
&
i
\
a
Photography
for Christmas!
WHEN the holidays are on you’ll be av/ay picnicking and
revelling in the pleasures of outdoor life. There’s
nothing like it for real, honest enjoyment.
But you can double the joy of the outing if you take a
Kodak with you. There’s no trouble about it. You’ll find the
tank method of developing very, very simple indeed. The dark-
room can be absolutely done without, and the Kodak is scientific-
ally sound in all its work.
Light, compact, efficient—could you Wish for a better
camera than a Kodak P Prices range from 265., and there are
also the famous BroWnies from ss. They make grand presents
for the young folk.
No. O FOLDING POCKET KODAK
takes'pictures 2_iin. x l§in., and loads in daylight for 6 or
12 exposures. When closed it is only lfin. thick, and can
be opened or closed by an instantaneous movement. The
lens is of good covering power, with a focal length of 3in.
The shutter is everset, and actuated by separate levers for
time and instantaneous exposures. A set of three stops is
provided, and also a brilliant finder. Price 265., postage9d.
No. 2 FOLDING POCKET KODAK
takes the popular 3|in. x 3|in. pictures,, and is
beautifully fitted and finished throughout. The
body of the Camera is made of aluminium, covered
with a fine black seal-grain leather. It can be
used as a fixed focus Camera, and can be locked
at Bft., 20ft., or 100 ft. focus.
Price £3 35., postage Is.
No. 3a FOLDING POCKET KODAK
weighs only 41 oz., and embraces all the practical features
of Cameras several times its bulk, yet retains the Kodak
simplicity. It takes grand pictures of 3|in. x sJin., and
is fitted with a rapid rectilinear lens, the F.P.K. auto-
matic shutter, two tripod sockets, a brilliant reversible
finder, with hood and automatic focussing lock.
Price JS4: 10s., postage Is. 3d.
BaKer ®, Rouse Proprietary, Ltd.,
Sole Ag'ents for Australian Kodak Ltd.,
379 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. “ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
Christmas Gifts
at
the
Treasure House
Save Christmas worry by sending for our latest illustrated Catalogue. It contains all the latest Fashionable Designs in Presents most suitable for
everybody. This season we have an unusually wide, varied and choice stock especially suitable for presents. You could not have a wider choice
or spend your money more economically. We are direct importers—which means a saving to you of from 10 to 15 per cent. All goods delivered
■■■-- at Catalogue Prices to any address in the Commonwealth. Money back if goods do not open up to your approval. =
03334—15cC. Gold, Pearl and
F.ishoda Ruby Set Brooch,
£3/3/-
03333 —Fine Pearl and Green
Tourmaline Set 15ct. Gold
Brooch Pendant, £3/10/-
Pearl and Olivine
Pendant, £lB/10/-
18ct. Gold, Diamond
Set Snake Rings,
Assorted Designs,
’£s, £6/10/-,
£B/15/-, £9/10/-
S
II !
I
H3Bl2—Heavy 9et. Gold Twist Bangle, set Diamonds aim
Sapphires or Rubies, £4/10/-
GB93o—lsct. Gold Brooch, Set
Fine White Pearls and
Diamonds, £7.
H9B66—Fine Pearl and Diamond
Cluster Earrings, £l2/10/-
Other designs up to £lO5.
ft
: JT’<i
J4lG—Handsome Diamond Com-
bination Brooch and Pendant,
£B5.
H99o2— Pearl, Aniethvst
and Tourmaline Brooch,
9ct. Gold, £l/10/-
J644—Fine Diamond Two
Rowßing, £25. Sniialler
Stones from £B/8/-
F7207—15ct. Gold Necklet, set Fine White Pearls, £6/15/-
N.S.VV.
New Black
Opal Scarf
Pin, 60/-
Others up
to £7/10/-
C3302—15ct. Gold, Oval Tube Bangle, £2/12/6
Larger, £3/5/-
mmm
Solid Silver
Chain Parses,
from 25/- to £5
9ot. Gold, from
£5/10/- to £2O
J4l9 —Pine Diamond,
Pearl and Olivine
Pendant, £2O.
H7o76—Fine Pearli-Green and
Pink Tourmaline Brooch
Pendant, £7/15/-
Fine Diamond Half-
Hoop Ring;, £5O.
Smaller Stones from
£5/5/-
D 1276 —Fine Whole White Pearl and
Diamond Brooch, £7/10/-
H8927—15et. Gold Pearl and Olivine Set Bangle, £6.
H8929—15ct. Gold, Fine Pearl, Green and Pink
Tourmaline Bangle, £lO/10/-
STEWART DAWSON 8 CO.
Strand Corner, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Australia Ltd.
Stewart Dawson & Co., Ltd., London, write announcing a
further development by the opening- of 73, 75, 77, 79
Regent Street, London, as a magnificent Jewellery
Establishment with a frontage of 88ft., which, excepting
our Hatton Carden Treasure House, is the finest of its kind
in Great Britain. All Australasian visitors will be welcome.


BARROWS
English Portable Engines
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOI.K
AGENTS :
J. H. YODNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
(S£
fcs!IE“'
Special Records
for Christmas
We have a grand list of records
suitable for Christmas time—a list
that will be a delight to you to
own.
Children’s stories, Ghost Yarns,
Carols, Christmas Hymns, Band
Selections, and appropriate Songs
are given by competent artists.
Call at your nearest dealer’s and
ask to hear some of them, or write
direct to us for the printed list.
The records are beautiful.
On the Edison
Phonograph.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
7.
r>
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
s M o ntserra*^
Lime Ju.ice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the ponuine " t'ONTSERRAT.”
THE
MARVELLOUS
EAR PHONE
Professor HOFFMANN’S Great Discovery.
A Wireless Telephone for the Ear. Excels any*
thing: ever invented to restore the HEARINC.
fiU
He is wearing the
Ear Phone. Can
you detect it ?
Professor Hoffmann’s Ear
Phone marks a new epoch in
the cure of Deafness, and
the difference between a
country cart and an express
train illustrates the immense
improvement this remark-
able instrument is on all
other devices that have gone
before. J -
The Ear Phone is self-
adjusting, invisible to the
eye, and its enormous value
to deaf ears is in its unique
power to QORRECT, FOCUS
AND MAGNIFY the sound
waves on the drum of the
ear. By the aid of these in-
struments, which are so soft
and light that they are not
felt clay or night, the slightest sounds may be
heard perfectly.
A very interesting Illustrated Book, entitled
“ How to Make Deaf Ears Hear,” will be sent post
free on receipt of name and address.
Every Deaf Person should read this.
Address—
Professor E. HOFFMANN, Dept. 1580,
54 Duke Street, Mayfair, London, Eng. [2
k
»i
A Certain Moustache Grower!
If you have tried ever so many so-called moustache pomades without
success, no wonder you have lost faith. Try CAP/LLARINE —
the GENUINE moustache producer, and you will get satisfaction.
Been on the market 25 years, and never disappointed yet.
SENT POST FREE If)/ft nt* f Jfff
ANYWHERE, fi//0 fJKZr l/ttf.
Craig: & Aitken, 654 George St, SYDNEY,
' Established 25 Years.
y
A
A MODERN ELECTRIC BATTERY
NEW N°4 HONE
Mf DICAI APPAfJA'US
WITH OB'' BITTEKI
Price, C
cJtJOi
Post
Free.
MEDICAL Electricity is used all over the
world in every hospital and by every
doctor.
But you can have a Battery right in your
own home.
Our Medical Battery is of the most modern
type, and is worked by means of simple diy
cells. The Battery will last six months with
daily use; and the Re-fill Battery is cheap,
and can be put in by a child.
It is both a tonic and a sedative. Properly
used, it is a safe remedy that can be placed in
the hands of any person of ordinary intelligence.
This Battery will cure Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Nervous Disorders, etc.
Booklet of full particulars sent free anywhere.
JORDAN’S
(formeily OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
People disagree on the
COOK PEARY
controversy about reaching the
North Pole.
But no one denies that
Lieut. SHACKLETON
penetrated nearest to the
South Pole.
HE TOOK PLASMON WITH HIM!
The Lancet states that to
COOK PLASMON
with your food is to add enormously to the nutritious
value.
Plasmon, Plasmon Cocoa, Plasmon Chocolate,
Plasmon Biscuits, &c., of all Chemists, Grocers and Stores.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
PLASMON LTD., London.
Australian Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Don’t Waste Time
with Any Truss!
To rely on a truss to cure rupture is absolute folly. It can never
give you your desire, but if you depend on the curative effect of the
Dr. J. A. Sherman Treatment,
your health and happiness will assuredly be restored. Hundreds of
men and women testify to the healing properties of the method.
Here’s an example
Dubbo, N.S.W.,
Dear Sir, November 13, 1909.
I am pleased to inform you that the treatment I received
from you cured my rupture. I wore the appliance and used
the lotion for about nine months after commencing the
treatment. I left off wearing it then, being thoroughly cured,
for which I feel grateful. Thanking you for your kindness.
(Name supplied.)
Will YOU come in and have a free consultation, even if you have to take
a day or so off to come to town for the purpose? Our descriptive books and
testimonials will be sent free on request.
HOURS: —Daily (Sundays excepted), 10 a.m. to 12 noon ; 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 12 noon. Extra hours : Friday evenings, 7to 9.
A. W. MARTIN
Sole Controller in Australasia of the
Dr. J. A. Sherman Treatment,
Dept. B, Gibbs’ Chambers, 7 MOORE STREET, near the G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I
/ l ilt!
lubricates the mechanism, prevents rust on the
metal parts and cleans and polishes the stock.
For cleaning 1 out the residue of burnt powder,
especially smokeless powder, it is unequalled.
Write for free sample to
REID & REID (Dept. A ). Australasian
Rep resentatives —
Wellington
\ New Zealand.
Sf
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 101-
\ Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [5
\vz
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
umoimwa
F.WOLFFASOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON jmA
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Rent Street, SYDNEY.


NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE
AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
BRISBANE, 10th December, 1909.
CHEAP QUEENSLAND PROPERTIES.
Near Kilcoy, 14 miles from rail. 46in. rainfall.
Dairy Farm. 855 acres. t Annual Rental, £ll2 per
annum goes towards making freehold. Water, permanent
creek. Improvements, splendidly improved ; good plant;
in fact, everything required for working up-to-date Dairy
Farm. Country, really sound cattle country equal to
anything on Kilcoy Estate. N.B.—Owner is prepared to
show returns, and can prove the place is a profitable in-
vestment. Price, £6 10s. per acre and take over Govern-
ment terms. , . ' .
Crazing Farm. 2800 acres. Water, permanent creek ;
drought unknown. Country, 1000 acres well-grassed
tableland, balance rich scrub, considerable quality cedar ;
21 years’ lease. Rental, Id. per acre per annum.
Prick, 10s per acre. 1
Agricultural Farm. 15 miles Kilcoy. 990 acres fenced.
Water, permanent; drought unknown. Country, sound
cattle country. Rent, 3d. per acre. Prick, 15s. per acre
and take over Government terms —£12 per annum.
For further particulars or firm offer apply to New
Zealand l,oan & Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
FRAMPTON (JOHN ANDREWS).
HIS Sister, who last heard from him in 188!),
has died in England. Information as to
whether he is living or dead is required by
Messrs. Lovell, Son and Pitfikld,
3 Grays Inn Square, London,
England, Solicitors,
who should be communicated with at once.
m
*sBl
■V " - :
“ /rz.f/ he reached the girl”
IN addition to this exciting yarn, The Lone
Hand for December tells “What the World
Owes to Australia,” exposes “ The Art of
Opium Smuggling,” continues the adventures of
“ Galahad Jones,” and allows Theodore Roose-
velt to tell of his sensational adventures among
the Rhinos and the Leopards of Africa.
Altogether there are Six Great Stories—-a
real Holiday Number. Price—the Price.- of
Two Bulletins.
The Perfected Self-Filling FOUNTAIN PEN .
Everrone is interested in the New Invention applied to the “ Torpedo ” Self-filling- Pen. It has the following
advantages '-Pills itself in a moment; Cleans itself instantly; No rubber to perish or other parts to get out
of order” Does not leak or blot, and is always ready to write ; Twin feed and all latest improvements.
The Makers claim the “TORPEDO” Self-filling Pen the Best Pen made,
being convinced everyone should use it.
A REMARKABLE OFFER IS MADE TO READERS OF “THE. BULLETIN,’’
The 10/6 “TORPEDO” Self-filling Pen, with 14-carat Gold Nib, for 4/-; or 3 Pens for 10/6.
The 15/- “TORPEDO ’’Self-filling Pen, fitted with Massive Diamond Pointed 14-carat Gold Nib, 6/-;
' or 3 Pens for 15/-.
The 21/- Cold Mounted Self-filling Pen, with 14-carat Cold Nib, 8/-; or 3 Pens for 20/-
A THRFF YEARS’ GUARANTEE WITH EVERY PEN FOR RELIABILITY, and if you are not satisfied,
mnnev will be returned or Pen exchanged till suited. Points can be had Fine, Medium, Broad, or J, soft
or hard. Every Pen, securely packed, sent by Registered Post to ensure safe delivery,
Readers of The Budletin can have full confidence in the “ TORPEDO ” Pen. No other pen so simple,
reliable, or such pleasure to use.
ORDER AT ONCE. Makers: BLOOM & CO. LTD., 37 Cheapside, London, B.C. Agents appointed.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
, IN THE ESTATE OF THOMAS QUIRK late
of Tammin in the State of Western Australia
Farmer deceased intestate.
To JOHN QUIRK brother of the above-named
Thomas Quirk.
NOTICE is hereby given that administration of
the Estate of your brother the above-named
Thomas Quirk deceased who died intestate has
been granted by the Supreme Court of Western
Australia to William Quirk of Tammin in the
State of Western Australia Farmer and by an
order of his Honor Mr. Justice Rooth it is
ordered that this advertisement be inserted twice
weekly in The South Australian Advertiser
Newspaper for one month and twice in The
Bulletin (Sydney) newspaper and it is further
ordered unless within one month from the last of
the said advertisements you communicate with the
said William Quirk giving him notice of your
claim you will be deemed to be dead and the said
William Quirk will be at liberty to distribute the
estate of the said Thomas Quirk amongst those
entitled thereto excluding you the said John
Quirk and any person claiming under you from
any share in the said Estate.
Dated this 12th day of November 1909.
LEONARD LOHRMANN,
105 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Agent for Messrs. Meeres & Meeres, of Northam,
Solicitors for the Administrator.
Books Which Every
Australian Should Read.
By ALEX. MACDONALD, F.R.G.S.,
Explorer and Author.
IN THE LAND OP PEARL AND
GOLD.— A Pioneer’s Wanderings in the
Back-blocks and Pearling Grounds of
Australia and New Guinea. Fully illus-
trated. Demy Bvo, cloth elegant, 10/6
net.
THE HIDDEN NUGGET.— A story
of the Australian Goldfields. 3/6. i -
The life on the Goldfields is-very realistically
described, and is based on' Mr. Macdonald’s
own experiences.
"THE PEARL SEEKERS.-A Story
of Adventure in the Southern Seas. 6/-
THE ISLAND TRADERS —A Tale
of the South Seas. 3/6.
THE QUEST OP THE BLACK
OPALS. —A Story of Adventure in the
heart of Australia. 5/-
THE LOST EXPLORERS.— A Story
of the Trackless Desert. 6/-
THE WHITE TRAIL.— A Story of
the Early Days in Klondike. 6/-
THROUGH THE HEART OF
TIBET. —A Tale of a Secret Mission
to Lhasa. 6/-
MAY BE OBTAINED FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS.
BLACKIE g SON, LTD., LONDON.
PORTFOLIO WRITING CASE
Keeps your Letters
Private and Writing
Materials Tidy.
Very Handy
and Nice.
ķ
We
Pay
Postage
Reduced
to
6/3
W A Nice
Acceptable
Present.
Fitted with Note Paper, Envelopes and
Post Cards, a
Self-Filling Fountain Pen,
and Material to make a Supply of Ink.
r PHE Portfolio Writing Case is especially useful for keening
your letters private and writing materials in good order.
Wheu vou write a letter, you do not have to search all over the
house for a pen and ink, a sheet of paper and an envelope.
There is the Writing Case, with an excellent Self-Filling Foun-
tain Pen, Note Paper, Envelopes, Post-cards, and Materials
that have merely to be mixed with water to make a good sup-
ply of Black, Bed. Green and Blue Inks. The Writing Case,
as will be seen in the illustration, is very handsomely gotten
up with nickel-plated and burnished clasp, fitted with lock
and key, and ornamental corner protectors. Owing to an
error of our London buyer we are overstocked with these
Writing Cases, so we have reduced the price from 9s. 6d. to
6s. 3d. to clear them, and we pay carriage to any address. You
should order at once, as this advertisement may not appear
ft{?a in Obtainable only from
The Union manufacturing Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Mr
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It-
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something- every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
-|- OW N HALL, SYDNEY.
SYLYI A BLOCKS TON,
THE FAVORITE AUSTRALIAN
CONTRALTO,
WEDNESDAY, 22nd DECEMBER.
H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Concert Manager,. Paling's.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 18,
Return of THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA
COMPANY in
THE CATCH OF THE SEASON,
THE LATEST and MOST UP-TO-DATE
MUSICAL COMEDY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
Criterion theatre, Sydney.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL & GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors: Clvdk Mrynkll and John Gunn.
COMMENCING BOXING. NIGHT, DECEMBER 27,
Return to Svdnev and FAREWELL TO RUPERT
CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL’S COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Succe-sful London Musical Comedy,
The GIRL BEHIND THE COUNTER
Plan open at Elvy’s, Monday, December 20, at 9.30 aim.
Prices—ss., 35., 25., Is.
PA LACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
I.e-see and Manager : GEORGE MARLOW.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE WEDDING RING.
IATURDAY, MONDAY & TUESDAY, DEC. 18, 20 & 21,
MARRIED TO THE WRONG MAN.
VEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, DEC. 22, 23, 24,
Revival of George Marlowe’s New Version of
EAST LYNNE.
POPULAR PRICES : 35., 25., Is. Box Plan on view at
?LVY’S Reserved Seats, 4s. Day Sale at White Rose
Confectionery. Early Doors to all parts, 6d. extra.
HE LYC EU M HA LL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling's, 2s fid.
Sydney glaciarium.
! DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN TttE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
7 jVTu picture palace
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at S.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
r ,v O LI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
I sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
MDLLE. DE DIO, Incomparable Dancer.
GRAHAM & DENT. Popular Sketch Artists.
HREE TRAPNELL SISTERS & BROTHER GEORGE.
FRED CURRAN. ' DOJ.LY HARMER
BERTHA STUART. MISS; FAN NY POWERS.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOsSJand AUSTRALIA’S
LITTLE TICH.
[R. IRVING SAYLES. MR. FRED .BLUETT.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at, Paling s.
HOUSE, M EL B O U R N E.
J Sole Proprietor * Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
HASSAN, Indian Magician.
POST MASON, Baritone.
BERT TERRELL, Comedian and Dancer.
KREMKA BROS., Comedy Acrobats.
HARRY MARTE, Intricate Dancer.
PHILLIS SYDNA, Mezzo Soprano.
FRANKO PIPER, Banjo Expert.
Nan at Allan’s, .. PRIOKS-tte, 2s, Is.
pSE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
I Sole Lessee and Manager—Wiluiam Andhrson.
FOR SIX MORE NIGHTS ONLY.
WALTER BENTLEY, Famous Tragedian,
MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN, Talented
Australian Actress, in
H A M L E T.
A SPECIALLY SELECTED SHAKSPE ARIAN CO.
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
lER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 18,
R. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Grand Annual
Spectacular Pantomimic Extravaganza,
ALADDIN.
-v Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s. .
H EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SCAR AS'CHE and LILY BRAYTON
-I V
se MERCHANT of VENICE
OSCAR ASCHE as SHYLOCK.
. LILY BRAYTON as PORTIA.
Plan at Allan’s.
CO.
PENCER’S
THEATRESCOPE
V I R T IL’S O MPIA;
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE. '
IGHTLY at 8. MATINEES at 2.30,
DIRECTION of MR. C. SPENCER.
THE CHRONOMEGAPHONE,
oducing HARRY LAUDER’S Songs and Specialities.
Popular Prices. Plan at Glen s.
LA CIARIUM,
Lessees
MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
J.&N.TAIT'S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan's.
■. > g t'S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
W THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES THK ouall.
NIGHTLY AT'B. , y.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.3^>.
the finest picture hall IN THE WORLD- v
Popular Prices —1/6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, *!/-.
" Box Plan at Glen’s. - j
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except-D.C. 1-/-
. , ,
T. C. Harwood is one of the quaint o
Tory customers likely to be opposed at the p®**
Vic. Council elections. He has enjoyed a long
termwithout opposition, and it was thought n
would go on in the old way; bu * Q ] *J n t p ar i
Faulkner^ the persmi was mentioned
as and then the outlook changed
Considering that Harwood was one ot the crner
supporters of Archbishop Clarke, Geelong is won-
derin? if this beautiful Church squabble is to he
the main question on which the election will be
fought. , .
A municipal politician in S. Aus. has just
found out how bad luck can be• He was retinnj
° als a ad °Vrers nominated him for
another municipality alongside. In both places
the result was a tie, and in both the returning-
officer gave a casting vote against him.
® T , .»-.«• * l v-i yl fLy.nrrhf if
The West. Coast Of Maonland tnougn
had struck the limit when it recently heard of a
nolice sub-inspector who had issued a summons
?rrplid“^?e! h ß«.K“a?.er„ e r uphhd e r
of Maoriland lawnorder than even the sub-in-
spector. A recently appointed district constable,
returnin o, home after the swearing-in ceremony,
found his “ missus ” in the twenty-eighth stage of
mate in it, and wheeled her two miles to the
nearest lockup.
lITTTII. T never heard the story told by
±l.l. • 1 1 never neam cne *>wiy y
the Oldest Inhabitant (B. 25/11/’O9) concerning
Superintendent Bell blocking a very exalted per-
son (afterwards a Suprehie Court Judge) at the
opening of the G.P.O. “The chiet
tradition on such matters relates to Constable
Thomas Mulquinn, Justice Innes. and the un-
veiling of the Queen Victoria statue. Mulquinn
barred his Honor’s entrance, and in fact, to pre,
vent it, did seize, grasp, clutch fasten to and
lay hands upon his almost sacred person. The
episode was afterwards ridiculed in pantomime,
when, in a topical song, the singer warbled
As much as the Devil loves stone-gin,
So does Sir George Innes lbve Mulquinn.
41 Australia To-day,” the annual issued by
the United Commercial Travellers’ Association of
Australasia, is out again. As usual, it has
secured a very strong bunch of literary contri-
butors. This year Senator McColl won the £25
prize for an essay on “Australia for the Immi-
grant” ; Frank Williamson won the £25 prize for
verse on “Australia’s Outlook,” and R. Taylor
Ghee scored the 20 guineas offered for a colored
supplement.


Shipping;.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINK STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Ajrents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne A of. nts : .lOHN SANDERSON & 00.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Sailing every fortnight, from BRISBANE. SVDXEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c
The Colonial |{|utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance. Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Heap Office :
419 & COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 116.164—Assuring £33.888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Horn C. .7. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of Horth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: .7 P. CANNY.
Loeal Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp&Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £508,197 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. • .. 162,824 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 73.500 0 0
£744.521 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.:E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. . . £35.000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman'; Hon. J. M, Pratt ; Hon.
Thomas Skene; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
"“TSN
<S\N
;
/?//✓<? •
//o//ovrfi/
r /r
WinL^g
C4*r*&ccs
'Ma A?f a CeerA/svr/
o/c /r
HOLLOWAY’S
are acknowledged the
longest-distance killing'
guns in file world. Won-
derful results. Low in price. A weak’s Free Trial given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write to the Agents—
8. COHEN SONS CO., Hardware. Merchants,
310*16 King Street, Melbourne; and at London.
HAVE von >ri<d this beautiful SKIN PREPARATION?
VERONIQUE. we only wish you to try a
SMALL JAR— rite result will be so gratifying 1 to you that
you would nor be without it for one day. Every" French-
woman who values her complexion uses VERONIQUE. It
does wonders for them, and will do the same for you.
VERONIQUE makes the skin smooth, soft and white, re-
moves blemishps, and so nourishes the skin that wrinkles
disappear. VERONIQUE costs 3s. per small and 53. per
large jar. Obtainable from the Sole Agents onlv : THE
JtfISTRALIA MANICURE AND TOILET ROOMS. 42a
CasTOKRRAan Street (over Medlow Bath Hydro Offi'-es),
exaetlv opposite the Hotel Australia. Entrance through
large doorway. Here also are the finest M nicpre Rooms
in Sydney. Add 6d. for postage.
Shipping:.
N
ord D eutscher Ivloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt. Naples. Genoa. Algiers,
Marseilles. Gibraltar. London, Antwerp, and Piemen.
ucaKiij"*' uamies Maximum speed,
Safety anrl Tonnage, Rest Accommodation, Excellent
l 'm.'ina OlXm T r r\’ w i , i ... 7
Ouisirip, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Ajrents.
FOUR-WEEKhV SERVICE to MANILA,
and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA
IOHMiMM x- nn
Tel. 60S.
LOHMANN & CO..
7 Uridye-srreet, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH.
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total ,Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £5OO 000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710,998
CHANTS DRAFTS on Austra Ha, New Zea-
, l * land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Ghair
man (Gibbs, Brisrht & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. •
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. ahek, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COOOWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ĸ
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
Uecember 22.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
January 19
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARRS—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne . .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
])a/</eti / and Compa-ny. Ltd
Agents in Australia.
LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
Return and Stop-over .Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c.. on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown. and thence bv
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo tc
Port Moresby. Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about S
k
CRUISES. A
ANP
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney: combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send. address for 111 us-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PH/LP & CO., Ltd., lO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
TA A ion. a mmm m- m . .
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
MiTin n , „ „ ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
T H^e^^^^^ Var ' tTO ter " ,S l ° SeU,erS ° r intendin " BPtUers °" the ,and ’ a few of
8 S’ASRU. « ~
<•> Txur 5 -*«- “»*» w 8 .~ ssJss/sKfiat is
_ date only being' charged.
jHtM tantS U^esJ^srSrtmS^itStionSi
E la ® e » (W,t u 0r l r ,thout associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Elections /before or after
Purchase L h easer eStead Crant) ’ (5) Sett,ement *”“•<«> Settlement
_ SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
I hSITJ ”’ ak , PS advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of g-ood quality at moderate rates of interest. ' /anus wen
o n on application to Branch Managers, or to the Skcrhtary, .at Moore Street, Sydney.
r
HICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
S. H. McDONALD, Manager.
TASMANIA
.The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
HIGHFIELD
.The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged and Re-
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite for the
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class Cuisine.
Alcoek’s Billiard Tables.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &c.
Business Announcements.
Boomerang Fence Droppers
THE STRONGEST -AND CHEAPEST.
20 Per Cent. Reduction on
Former Prices.
Send for Price List. GIANT FENCE CO.,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
SIMMER SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear.
Hotels, &c.
mm
fEORGE HOTEL,
' >St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
FOSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
• . •
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St , Lcndon, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PTRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports |
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Ivanowna, Friday,
December 24.
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), January 5,
calling- at ail N.-SVest
Ports to Derby.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
BRISBANE,
MACKAV.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Olirns.
LS.S. Yonaraln, Dee. 18.
I S.S. Innainincka, Dec. 24.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
nist Port of Call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IiED ROUTE.
the. BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
* Twin-Sbrew Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in tlie World
crossing' the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-streeo, Sydney:
F. H. A.
Federal.Houlder-Siiire Lines.
For* London and Liverpool
Via DURBAN.
T.S.S; “DORSET.”
11,800 Tons. W. E. Puknticr, Commander
Will be despatched from SYDNEY - about 18th Dec.
» » .. MELBOURNE „ 24th Dee.
» ~ „ ADELAIDE - „ 31st Dec.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Thiid-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
t , Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and 1 ' _
LIVERPOOL.. ( £49 10s - £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares front Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., applv to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
Mc EACH ARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne:
ELDER, SMITH & Co.. Ltd., Adelaide.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRISS I
hree Wtches
CIGARETTES
v/n,
10
for
Hade
tondon
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. Then send for particulars
oi our perfectfilting
Automatic Air cushion appliance
THr Best Ruptuhj Applianc • of the Centimy
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre;
WiSVJSLOW CO., 2»I Cal.lns St..'4elbojrci,Vi«


XMAS & BIRTHDAY PRESENTS
FOR THE BOY.
‘KNOWLEDGE IS POWER
Useful Apparatus
and Scientific Models
FOR THE
Young Mechanic.
a
IvoUAJJ])'"
w
PRACTICAL TOYS THAT TRAIN
THE MIND.
We submit below a few lines of simple, scientific mechanical Models to our Australian friends—each single
apparatus practicable—and an education in itself—not flimsy toys—but well made, reliable instruments.
MECHANICS MADE EASY.
In this go-a-head progressive 20th century, boys are not content with the simple
toys of our grandfathers. This outfit consists of machine-turned wheels, nuts and
bolts, angle and girder pieces of iron, running and driving wheels, steel shafting,
etc., with which the various models can be made, simply using the fingers and a
screw driver which is supplied.
The No. I BOX, 7/8:— Simple Models, Crane, Windmill, Trolley, Endless
Rope Railway, Telpher Span, Railway Signal, etc.
The No. 2 BOX, 11/6; No. 2 ACCESSORY, 8/6; the two together are equal to
Box No. 3. Will make all the foregoing models, also Draw-Bridge to raise and
lower Travelling Crane, Warehouse with Hoist and a large number of other models
limitecj only by the ingenuity of the young engineer.
The 3 BOX, 20/-; No. 3 ACCESSORY, 15/-; the two together are equal to
Box 4. Will make all the models in the No. I and 2 Boxes, also Cable Railway,
Swing Bridge, using worm wheels, pinions, etc. Overhead Jib Crane with gear and
Contrite wheels, Swivelling and Luffing Jib Crane, Pit Head Hoist, Warehouse
with Elevator.
No. 4 BOX, 35/-:— Will make all the models in the No. I, No. 2 and No. 3 Boxes,
and Crane on R,ails, Overhead Travelling Crane, etc., Maxim Flying Machine, etc.
The “ D ” BOX, 60/-:— Makes all the models in the preceding Boxes and con-
tains extra parts. ' Will make all the models in the No. I, No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4
Boxes, Eiffel Tower with working lift. Tower Bridge with raising and lowering
bascules, and material for constructing Railway Stations with Transparent Roof,
Big Wheel, etc.
POCKET ELECTRIC LAMPS with self chargeable ce’ls. useful fora thous-
and purposes. 2/6 each. Better quality in Nickel Cases 5/~! Morocco and
Nickel (with dry cells) 7/6.
ELECTRIC TORCH, 9 x I V 2 —gives 8,000 flashes. For Mines, Hotels, Burglar
preventive. 10/6 each. Best grade, 20/-.
ELECTRIC MOTORS in parts for fitting together with full instructions 6/6 each
TELEGRAPHY Electric Key. and Sounder for learning the Morse Code. A
practical working instrument with instructions 10/6.
SHOCKING COILS with battery, handles and cords, regulator, etc., per-
fect instruments. 7/6 complete.
ELECTRIC BELL SETS. —Bdll and Cabinet, push, 25 feet wire. Dry cell.
Ready to work, 7/6.
STEAM MODEL LOCOMOTIVES, copper boiler with brass heavv. flanged
wheels, 2-cylinders. On and off cock, whistle. Size. 9 ins. x 3 ins. Price 10/6.
MODEL MOTOR BOATS imitative of Naval pinnaces, gun boats, 5/-, 7/6 and
10/6.
AMERICAN STEREOSCOPES in pine with imitation Leather Hoods, 2/- each.
STANDARD STUDENTS MICROSCOPE in brass with 3 powers, magnify-
ing up to 70 diametres, 15/- each. Higher grades 21/- and 42/-.
POCKET TELESCOPES, 3 draw in brass and leather. Good for 7or 8 miles,
10/6 each.
MODEL STATIONARY ENGINES. Steam boilers and engines, slide valve
cylinders and reversing gear, 10/- to 70/-.
Write for our Fully Illustrated Electrical Catalogue. We Send it FREE to any Address
JERDAN’S
(Formerly OSBORN & JERDAN.)
“MY OPTICIANS”
393 George St., Sydney
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS.
(FACING ROYAL HOTEL.)
Hotelkeepers, Chemists, iConfectioners, Cafe-Owners
THE “GLACIER"
SODA FOUNTAIN
Constructed of Finest Italian Marble-
Handsomely Mounted with
Nickel-Plated Fittings.
Fitted Internally with our Patent
Cooler.
Produces a Well-Mixed, Ice-Cold,
Effervescing Drink.
storekeepers
; Make Money this Summer by installing' a
ti
Soda Fountain
....AND AN ...
AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water
Machine
CATALOGUES and full PARTICULARS on request.
THE- “AUSTRAL”
AERATED WATER
MACHINE
Produces the Very Best Soda Water
for less than ONE PENNY
PER DOZEN.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, and all
Syruped Drinks for Less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN.
Requires no Skilled Labor —only
One Youth to work it.
Over 2000 Machines in use through-
out Australia.
PRICE £lB and Upwards; Cash or Terms.
Queensland Agents : ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 110 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS AND PATENTEES—
ECKERSEEY &, SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.


mm
m
P
A :
iIM
If you only knew how the mouth
is rejuvenated when the teeth have
been cleansed with Odol! It feels
like the body does after a bath.
m
Silverware
AND
Electroplate.
The Electroplate which we
stock is the best procurable.
The same policy of “ depend-
able goods at the lowest
prices ” is carried out in' this
department, just as in the
drapery, clothing and furnish-
ing sections.
Send your Xmas order to us,
in the knowledge that you
will get the highest class of
goods, at prices which are
considerably below those of
other houses.
If you leave the selection of
the present to us, both you and
the recipient will be pleased.
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
Francis Kenna, writer of verse and re-
jected of Bowen, has taken to journalism again,
and is editing a paper in the town which lately
said “ No” to him as a politician.
Mrs. Da Costa, who died in Brisbane the
other day, was the daughter of one of the
surveyors who laid out the city. There weren’t
many older native-born Queenslanders than she.
Bananaland’s first Government House is
still standing. It is in Adelaide-street, Brisbane,
next to the new Anglican Cathedral, and is
occupied nowadays by the Anglican Diocesan
Registry. Fifty years ago it was the property of
Dr. Hobbs, and was rented for the use of George
Bowen, the first Governor, at £350 a year, pend-
ing the erection of the building which has just
been handed over as the home of Bananaland’s
’Varsity-that-is-to-be.
The Queensland State Labor party takes a
larger view than the N. S. Wales lot. Last week,
M-L.A. Murphy moved an amendment on the
financial statement, condemning the action of the
State Premiers in trying to make perpetuity a con-
dition of the financial agreement with the Com-
monwealth. A dozen of the Labor party voted
with Murphy and the rest wouldn’t vote against
him. Though, of course, it wasn’t carried, it is a
healthy sign when such a motibn can be moved in
a State Assembly, and the Murphy who can
strike a blow like this at the Parish Pumpites has
no blight on him.
From Stowe and Brand, consulting
engineers:—
We would like to enter a direct dehial to the statements
of “ S.R.” (B. 18/11/'O9) as far as they concern ourselvesin
regard to the Rockhampton tramways. The commission
paid us was far less than 10 per cent!., and was inclusive
of all travelling expenses, plans, specifications, buying
and inspecting fees, also supervision. Moreover if “S.R.”
consults the records of the Rockhampton Council meet-
ing (29/10/’O9), he will see that the engineers saved the
council more than the whole of their fees in buying com-
missions alone ; and, consequently; the municipality got
the remainder of their services free. Since the estimate
of the scheme was presented, the new tariff came into
operation and the duties on material required were
raised very considerably ; also, more track was laid and
more rolling stock bought than was provided for in the
£25,000 bill.
The council’s original instructions were to purchase or
make everything possible locally. Unfortunately' the
Litbgow people could not undertake the rail and special
work contract. The cars were patent, and in the absence
of a Federal law compelling patentees to construct in
Australia, were purchased in Francfe. Remarkable as it
may appear, the Continental countries have made much
more progress in high-pressure superheated steam than
the Unite ! Kingdom ; the most economical s.vstem in
every way of several investigated was the “Purrey,”
which was consequently installed in Rockhampton.
The cars vie in appearance with electric ones—no
smoke, smell or escape steam being visible, and are far
less noisy than the Sydney electric cars. Had Rock-
hampton sufficient population to permit of an electric
system paying as a municipal venture, a light scheme
such as Brisbane possesses would have been recom-
mended. “S.R.’s” ignorance does not permit him to
know that the original cars for Brisbane and Sydney were
imported, and that the motors are still imported.
Brices for woodwork and trailers were obtained from
Australian firms, but proved to be considerably higher
than the landed cost of the imported car. However, we
do not recommend importation on that account, and we
advised the Council to get the bodies built in Rockhamp-
ton for the two new- 75-h.p. cars they are ordering, and
we are now drawing plans and specifications that this
may be carried out.
The £BOOO loan mentioned by “S.R.” is, we under-
stand, for the purpose of buying the cars referred to
above, extending the track mileage, and equipping the
repair-shed.
The boiler-tubing spoken of, or any tubing, is unfor-
tunately not made in Australia, and so has been ordered
from England.
With the arrival and erection of the water purifier
which the council at first neglected to order, although
repeatedly asked to do so, the boilers should be as suc-
cessful as they have been on the Continent, where the
tubes have run 55,000 miles without renewal.
“ X.P.D.,” his growl :
Something- like a hundred thousand bunches of bananas
are sent away from Cairns each year, yet it is almost im-
possible to buy or steal a decent banana in a Cairns shop.
Again, the fishing about the Barrier Reef and at Double
Island—both within 21 hours by motor-boat —is the best
I know in Queensland waters. Yet even the publicans
can’t get fish half as often as they are prepared to buy it.
Why plentiful supply and chronic need can’t meet and
make it up is an economic problem too hard for
me to solve. The banam industry is in the Chow’s
hapds entirely; all the. fish shops are kept by
Greeks; and for fish-hawking (when it is done)
there is more Chow. White fishermen have tried
to make a living at the Reef, and have left with sore
hearts and patched pants. American salmon, Norwegian
ling, Moreton Bay oysters, and God-knows-what in tins
come by every boat. Cairns and other northern people
talk vaguely of fruit-markets and fish-markets, but
a Society for the Prevention of Love to Chinamen (with
power to extend its operations to Greeks, Syrians, Fili-
pinos, Japs, Cingalese, and alien-loving Australians)
would better meet the case. There is a family
of whites growing vegetables, near here. Two
of the girls pluckily drive round in a spring-
cart and hump a basket to back-doors. A few
days ago one of them happened to be trying to sell her
cabbages when the vegetable John arrived. He glared at
the stealer of Aliens’Rights (whom he had insulted on a
previous occasion), and replied to the missus’s “Good
morning, John ! ” with “ Whaffor goo’ morning ? Whaffor
buy Tong whitee gel?” And the missus, being a new-
comer, didn’t know that she should have apologised.
The Adelaide Steamship Co.’s lease of the
municipal wharves at Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane,
runs out at the end of the year, so the co. has
secured 1725 ft. of water frontage from the South
Brisbane Council. For nearly 50 years South
Brisbane has had no inter-State shipping,
though before that it had all of it. The
oversea vessels anchored in Moreton Bay,
and loaded there. In those early time's,
“the South ” was the only part connected
by road with Ipswich and the Darling
Downs. The A.S.N.— now the A.U.S.N.
—Co. had a wharf there, but it wasn’t big
enough, and a drinkery blocked an ex-
tension. So the co. cleared out to the
north side of the river, and there the
inter-State business has stuck ever since.
It is proposed now to pay Queens-
land members of Parliament from the
date of their election. Hitherto they
have only been paid from the date of the
return of the writ up to the date of the
next dissolution. So, as Queensland has
had three elections in 2J years, any mem-
ber who has weathered those three elec-
tions has been unpaid for from six
weeks to two months after each
election, making a total of from five
to six months in all without salary
during 2£ years. Yet the more
numerous the elections the bigger
the expenses. No wonder the North-
ern politician nearly always dies a poor
man.
PViidcfnn ovn'nrr tr. nlin the fb„
1 niClSt ° n 18 J oln S to Clip tile Wings of tile
cheap and nasty honorary J.P. as regards sitting
m »«■***«**• *■' ** *°
manner in which the creature unblushing’ly touts
for the Tory postal vote, Phidston lavs low and
- , . ••
sa y s nothing.
rpi P nnd-,anh visits tr, nert r>f
J-Re constant visits to poit OI ceitain
Japanese bkchh-de-mcr ketches with exceedingly
™ deSt ]ed —% *o Customs
officers at Mackav making a search of one of the
Jap boats as it came np the river, after anchoring
r, ln teirle tho bar- 11 ,0;’ c 0
~ '•/ a a ‘* n, f?nt waiting ostensibly for
,p e '' lde : 11 China boat had passed south from
lownsvdle to Brisbane a few days previously, and
the Customs and police thought they smelt
something. But the monkey-boss had got
ashore over-night in his dinghy, and all
that tl,e searchers found aboard were a few
sea-slugs, some cane mats, a few fantastic
teapots, and a large quantity of monkev grins,
For all that, there is very little doubt that the
men engaged in the beehe-de-mer business are the
biggest opium smugglers yet uneaught. Their
] CetcheS ar< ; constantly dropping into port after
out tor only two or three weeks, whereas
their usual time out is four months. And the
Reef must be pretty bare of fish now. for the Japs
have been skimming it for the past three years.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 11, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
We have got our new State Governor at last,
or what the London surgeons have left of him.
And, strictly between ourselves, he is an old
dear, despite the lamentable fact, impossible to
correct now, that he was born north of the Tweed.
Before he came the air was heavy with Mac-
gregor tartan, and a brand new band of pipers
had burst forth, each man blowing his own way,
and blowing for all he was worth. There was in
consequence a tremendous run on cotton-wool;
yet, with the single exception of one outburst
on the day of his arrival, I haven’t heard of the
Governor giving the slightest encouragement to
these disturbers of the peace. Wee Macgregor
has a kindly face, and I don’t think that he would
hurt their feelings; but I suspect that he just
called them and told them not to be down-hearted,
but to run away and practise something.
We really did him proud on that day of days
when he got back.thus far to the tropics he so
loves. Premier Kidston and one of his usual ex-
clusively aristocratic parties went down on the
Government yacht Lucinda, and picked up his
FAR MORE CONSIDERATE.
"Drop'd ’em on yer toe! That's nuthin'. Why,
I seen a bloke get killed stone dead , an' ’e
never made such a bloomin’ fuss as you're
doin’.”
Ex. at Pinkenba. Mistress Kidston also went,
and scattered fragrant vegetation upon the new-
comers. There were only 63 pieces of light luggage
to be transhipped ; and among four of them—the
Gov., the lady, Miss Macgregor, and the Scarlett
appendage—this wasn’t so bad. Some of the
parcels were full of interest. There was what
looked like a mandolin, though it may have been
a parcel of oatcake, and another that I am con-
vinced was a haggis, besides many Arctic curios
and no . end of fishing-rods and umbrellas. The
latter may be useful if the clan is one day hurriedly
evicted from its humpy to make room for the
University. If by then our Wullie hasn’t made
up his mind where he will put the Exes, to sleep,
they can camp under the umbrellas and fish off the
bank of the Botanic Gardens.
Coming aboard, the Gov. gripped the hand of
Captain Craig, of the Lucinda, and hailed him as
an old friend of the New Guinea days. Then
the fact burst upon us that, along with
the luggage, there had come a real live
beauty, a charming girl with eyes blue
as a periwinkle, soft hair brown as a nut,
rose-pink skin, and a little Cupid’s bow of a
mouth. This turned out to be the daughter of
the clan.
Coming up the river the company ate all sorts
of indigestible things, while the Governor kept
on wearing his WiVfdsor uniform, and Lady
Macgregor her prunelle gown, and the vision a
covering as blue as her eye, with straw and roses
atop. There were the usual troops frying upon
the Kennedy Wharf, and Boy Scouts fainting in
the sun, and numbers of citizenesses melting in
their finery. The Mayoress had the usual bokay
in her arms, and the Mayor was in a Turkish bath
of cloth, gold-chain and fur.
The sun simply blazed. I sidled up to the
Scarlett appendage as soon as possible, and asked
him, in a tone meant to be confidential, whether
he played the mandolin or the haggis ; but he
could not remember in the heat of the moment.
The women-folk of the new vice-royalties are
not given to anything very striking in the clothes-
line, but the Governor is a furious dresser. To
date he has appeared in (1) one Windsor uniform
of much gold lace; (2) one white'duck uniform
hung with medals ; (3) another ditto draped with
ditto, ditto ; and (4) one sky-blue flowing robe lined
with red and hung with one large star, two larger
tassels, seven doz. (approx.) orders, and a sash or
so. He wore the last-named magnificence at the
dedication of the old viee-iregal lodge as a univer-
sity, and did it under a gorgeous maroon and
striped pavilion erected outside the porch. Every
one, including Premier Kidston, talked a lot.
The Governor, Joey Bell. “Penguin ’’David, and
Stirling (of the Adelaide Uni.) all had their
turn, then Dame Macgregor planted a jubilee
tree with a highly useless spade ; and after that
the multitude was fed at the expense of its bleed-
ing country. No one wore anything worth talk-
ing about in the way of clothes except the
Governor himself.
Henley was a great sight entirely; but what
the Prince is to any well-constituted “Hamlet,”
the naval house-boat was to the gathering. It
was a gay structure of palms and bunting,
arranged as only Jack Tar can arrange it, with
little shields showing the devices of States and
Commonwealth, and dozens of little fairy lights
at night. On board, pretty Mrs. Richardson and
her husband, and lots of other naval husbands,
were bidding good-day and good-bye to guests in
yachting uniforms and pretty gowns through the
afternoon and evening. Alongside was the little
grey Midge, pretending to be a nice tame domestic
pet instead of a vicious little torpedo boat. At
night there was one yacht at least that would have
done credit to any old Henley. It was decorated
by the Misses Gallagher and a host of girl friends,
and was a study in pink and white, the fail-
girls and brave sailors dressed in white, with
pink hats and ties respectively. At night, when
the lights were burning, she was a pink dream,
and won about £6 worth of prizes.
The child Vera Parker added another sprig of
la, -E el to , £ er hunch m the Musical Union's
Messiah on Tuesday. Her 16-year-old voioe
in “ He Was Despisedwas a thing to be remem-
bered with jov, and the new Government House
party felt for { ts hanky .
T „ ,1 A w if
•J" eneral Jubilation over the University it
, r hauhed
pa “ e # up n the bac ’ c ’ as - lf aJone had l atched
° U s the S f che ™ e .’ The University Extension men,
Particularly Reggie Roe and Jack. Walsh
/'? r p ear ‘a dld , tl ,® s i° f r h eUrw ~ !!„; tp ? ’ o vpr
e p f / ustice Samuel Griffith, are all quite over-
v
v
Yours affectionate y,
MABIO.
December 10 is celebrated as Separation
Day in Bananaland, but December 9, 1859, was
the day on which the Order-in-Council separating
Queensland from N. S. Wales was read. Gover-
nor Bowen had landed in Brisbane on that day,
but as he had been horribly sea-sick most of the
flummery was put off till the next day, and it was
resolved in consequence that December 10 should
be regarded as Separation Day. The business on
the 9th was lipiited to the reading of the aforesaid
Order-in-Council and the swearing-in of the
Governor by Judge Lutwyche.
Surely the luckiest politician in Australia
is Attorney-General Thomas O’Sullivan, of Banana-
land. He was appointed to the Upper House—a
process which involves none of the worry of an
election—on September 29, 1903. Instead of
having to wait years for a job, he was started as
an honorary Minister at once—so much at once
that he was a Minister for five days before he got
into the House at all. Then he was promoted to
a salaried portfolio, and, barring an interval of
three months, he has held it ever since. When
Morgan left the Assembly O’Sullivan clambered
down from the Council, ran for Arthur’sold seat and
won it. He only held it two years, and when the
electors threw him out that should, in the ordinary
course of things, have been the end of his Minis-
terial career. But the gods were watching over
Thomas O’Sullivan, and he was immediately
shoved back into the Nominee House So that he
might not lose his billet. In fact. Queensland’s
chief business seems to be the keeping of Thomas
O’Sullivan in his billet. He doesn’t seem a wildly
and horribly indispensable man, yet he has been
in three Governments, and out of 6 years 2 months
in Parliament (only two years being in the
Assembly) he has had 5 years 11 months of office.
Captain Foulis, now at anchor in Cairns
(N.Q.j as Harbor Board Superintendent, was one
of two speculators who tried to work up a trade in
cedar from the banks of the Fly River. Papua, 25
years ago. The cedar was there all right; so the
partners bought a small vessel and a big bullock
team. The captain did the sea transport, and
duly landed the bullocks at the mouth of the Fly,
and hauling began. But southerners said the
timber Was too spongy, and the spec, ended in
dead loss and a derelict team of bullocks.
From a man in the North :
Queensland has some State and other orphanages ; but
it goes in also for the boarding-out system, and the little
boarded-outs want a lot better looking after than some of
them get. A farmer up this way has three or four of
them in his charge. They get up about 2.30 a.m.,
milk the cows, and half of them take the
product into town at daylight. When the weary
round of the streets is finished (I have seen them, insuffi-
ciently clothed and shivering in the rain, up till well on
in the forenoon) the cart-boys go “home” and rejoin
those who were left behind at real work. There is
seldom anything to do after the evening milking is finished,
so they can have at least eight hours for sleep and re-
creation on all seven days of the week. Another
cocky, resident near Mackav, had charge of an orphan boy.
The boss and his family lived in a two-roomed hovel.
Outside was a lean-to made from a few sheets of iron. It
had no floor but the ground, and contained no bunk. A
flour bag was spread on the ground, and the boy slept on
this. When rain came he got washed out—but that
might have been good for him, for he was never encour-
aged to waste time in washing himself, and lived, night
and day, in an old shirt and trousers that the boss had
discarded. Queensland is a bad place' to lose one’s
parents in.


THE WEALTH IN SUBTERRANEAN
STREAMS.
Over half the territory of Queensland is supplied
with underground streams, vjhieh, when re-
leased from their imprisonment, force their way
upwards in jets.
The development of these artesian streams has
meant the fertilisation of a territory larger
than the German Empire, France, Italy or
Japan.
The actual area of water-hearing country in Queens-
land is 367,000 square miles,
While the area of
Germany is 208,000 square miles.
France is 207,000 square miles.
Italy is 110,000 square miles.
Japan (with Formosa) is 1)7,655 square
miles.
This huge territory was a while ago supposed to he
barren and sterile country, fit only to graze a
few million sheep.
The first jet of artesian water\ dissipated for ever
the legend of the
GREAT AUSTRALIAN DESERT,
and restored the reality — viz., the
GREAT AUSTRALIAN GARDEN.
At the latest there were sunk in Queensland.
596 WELLS
giving a daily yield of
391 MILLION GALLONS OF BEAUTIFUL
WATER
which.is jit for watering sheep and cattle, and
for all purposes of irrigation.
Queensland To-day: The Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XLIX.
QUEENSLAND’S ARTESIAN WATERS.
ARTESIAN BORE, DILLALAH, QUEENSLAND.—(3,000,000 gallons daily.)
By J. D. FITZGERALD, Barrister-at-Law.
If the wonderful gold discoveries opened out a
new prospect to the pioneers, -the discovery of
artesian water gave illimitable vistas to the
settlers upon the vast areas of the west. It saved
a province in Queensland as large as several
European principalities. It raised the hopes and
again aroused the energies which had been lowered
and become sluggish through the repetition of
droughty seasons. Men used to cry in despair
that Providence had mocked them in providing
huge territories whose soil was as fruitful as a
garden when the rains were regular, but as sterile
as a desert when drought followed drought. “ The
one great requirement necessary to permanent
and profitable settlement,” as one writer on
Queensland puts it, was wanting ; and the de-
pendence placed upon the kindness of the seasons
in a naturally arid country led to disappointment,
disaster and irreparable loss. The discovery
of the inexhaustible stores of water which Nature
had hidden in the earth changed the whole face of
ARTESIAN BORE, BARCALDINE, QUEENSLAND.
the situation. To-day the haunting fear of ruin
through drought has practically disappeared. The
geologists have propounded their theories of the
hiding places of the streams Which disappear into
their sandstone beds, and the diamond drill and
the boring machines have proved the theories true.
After the bores had tapped these artesian
supplies on the great westefn rolling downs (the
“ lower cretaceous formation”), and the water
was pouring out by the million gallons, the earth
yielded abundance, and the sheep and cattle in-
creased and multiplied. We are only at the
beginning of things in this new development of
the natural resources of Queensland. Water con-
servation and artificial irrigation are in their
infancy with us, compared to the great schemes
of the Old and the New Worlds. The won-
derful work done on the Nile by dams, water
gates and canals are well known. There the
supply which adds such marvellous fecundity
to the soil is surface water gathered from moun-
tains and lakes in the interior of Africa. In Cali-
fornia the mountain streams are tapped and the
water brought down to the plains. N.S.W.,' Vic-
toria and South Australia have the Murray River,
fed by snow waters, to apply to their lands in the
irrigation colonies. Japan, Java and China use
the waters of their streams. But Queensland
uses the abundance which flows beneath the
ground in the shales and porous sandy beds.
The views of the intending immigrant, who has
heard so much of the “Great Australian Desert,”
would change violently if he could take a geological
map of Queensland and glance over it. Such a map
is now before the writer. It is issued by the . Water
SLUICING TIN AT STANTHORPE, QUEENSLAND.
Supply Department of Queensland, and it shows,
in multi-colored zones, the artesian water bearing-
strata (with the significant addendum “as far as
at present known-to the Department”), and also
the positions of the artesian borings and peren-
nial springs. The artesian wells are marked with
red and blue circles, the red being those put down
by the Government Water Supply Department,
the Queensland Railway Department, or the Local
Government bodies, which latter, as has already
been shown, have the power to undertake this
work under the scope of their authority in the
Local Authorities’ Act of 1902. The blue circles
denote the bores put down by private landowners
for the purpose of providing water for their stock,
Again, in this sphere, as in others, the services
of the Government have been applied for the
benefit of the settler and producer. The Govern-
merit was the pioneer in this important matter,
The value of the discovery of artesian water was
soon realised by the State, and all speed was used
in developing the new source of wealth. The
possibilities of the new'discovery staggered even
the most sanguine. As the development of the
artesian water went on—it is still going on with
accelerated speed—and the tests over huge terri-
tories proved its wide-spread existence, its
true significance in the future development
of the State was at last realised. While the
State was by a railway system remedying the
defect of Nature in not having provided navi-
gable rivers, Nature herself provided a remedy
for the surface aridity of these large tracts by dis-
closing her underground supplies. It is said that
nearly half the territory of Queensland contains
VERNON DOWNS BORE, QUEENSLAND.—(1,000,000 gallons daily.)
underground supplies of water. The actual area
is not less than 376,000 miles of water-bearing
country.
This extent of territory so supplied is probably
the largest in the world save one ; and to show
the nature of the efforts at development, the
latest figures available prove that 596 wells have
been sunk to various depths, the deepest being
5046 ft., and from these sources there is a daily
flow of 391 million gallons of potable water, which
not only affords sustenance to teeming flocks and
herds, but also, though in a vtery small way as yet,
assists in the growth of such crops as wheat,
maize, sugar-cane, oats, lucerne, rape, Hungarian
millet, paspalum, vines, citrus fruit (in which
there are fortunes to be made in the future), figs
and mulberries. In Central Queensland alone
there is one area of 9,000,000 acres in extent which
W suitable for irrigation experiments similar to
those pursued in Egypt. Apropos of this, a writer
No. 1 BORE, MURWEH STATION, QUEENSLAND.—( Depth, 1800ft.; flow, 3,000,000 gals, daily.)
in the “Year Book of Australia” (1908) makes
these observations
As yet, this artesian water has been used chiefly for
providing vvater for stock. Attempts at irrigation have
been few, yet the soil of the Western Downs is of the
richest description, and with irrigation these districts
might become the granary of the world. Of all cereals,
wheat is that requiring least moisture. The arid climate
of the West would suit it to perfection if a sufficient
supply of moisture couid be depended on at certain
stages of its growth. In the future, bore water wi
probably be applied to this purpose. Already at Bar-
caldine, in Central Queensland, irrigation experiments
have given most encouraging results.
The geological theory of the existence of
artesian streams is a very interesting one. Mr. W.
H. Rands, the then Government Geologist, in the
official Year Book of 1901, shows the natural divi-
sion of the State into two parts—the eastern or
coastal district, with an ample rainfall and mar-
vellous deposits of minerals. The western interior
district “presents a vast area in parts of almost
treeless plains, with here and there clumps of
gidga scrub.” In this expansive region the rain-
fall is small, and the river beds are generally dry.
The land, though it embraces the best pastoral
land in the State of Queensland, cannot (or rather
could not) be stocked to anything like its full
capacity, owing to the aridity. “But,” says the
geologist, “ this difficulty has to some extent
been overcome in recent years by the tapping of
vast supplies of artesian water that these lower
cretaceous beds contain.” He then goes on to
show how the beds come to contain _ these
supplies of water. Dr. Jack and Mr. Maitland,
in 1894, investigated the causes. A porous
bed of sandstone, was discovered and was found
extending from the borders of N.S.W. to the Gulf
of Carpentaria on the north ; and this bed of sand-
stone was responsible for sucking up the rivers
which flow over it, until they apparently dry in
their beds.
Their waters are not gone, however. They flow
away underground, taking two directions, the
first of their streams discharging into the Great
Australian Bight, and the second into the Gulf of
Carpentaria—the “Grey Gulf water” of Pater-
son’s poem. The geologist says : “ The amount
of water yielded by the numerous bores is almost
infinitesimal when compared with the amount of
water taken in by this rock and other porous beds
that occur.” Since those lines were written there
has been an immense development of the means
employed for the exploitation of the underground
streams.
The history of the development of artesian
boring affords another picturesque facet of Queens-
land pioneering enterprise. The business of suc-
cessful boring "had to be learnt, with an immensity
of labor (often wasted), and at great expenditure
of money (often misapplied). But, undeterred by
failure, the pioneers continued. Their outfit in the
early days was extremely simple—a carrier’s dray
packed with machinery. The site of the bore was
oftenfarfromthestationhomestead, and there,with
a camp set up and primitive contrivances in the
shape of blacksmiths’ shops, repairing forges, etc.,
the work was begun. Nor were they always sure
that, as in the case of the goldfields, their labor
would not “bottom on a duffer.” The divining-
rod—which has been fervently declared by one
party to be mere charlatanry, and by another to be
scientifically impeccable —did not always tell the
exact facts about the locality of the under-
ground streams. But gradually a better know-
ledge of the country, and of the art, came with
experience founded often on failure; and with
improved machinery thpre is much more certainty
and less expense to-day than in the pioneering
days.
To-day one sees the arid plains being gradually
transformed to gardens. The release of the sub-
terranean waters has created new watercourses
where dry plains existed; and along these water-
courses the usual stream growths have sprung up.
We may look confidently to the future of this great
territory, when eatnpestrian wastes as large as a
jfj ur opean principality are revivified by the artesian
. u ,C, , fprtile reckons of the
streams and added to the teitile regions ot the
earth. i-hB Queenslaijciei ot tp-Cuiy,, and the man
from abroad who desires to become a Queenslander,
has a bright and sanguine outlook upon the future,
now that lie sees Nature’s apparent ban of aridity
remo ved from so great a slice of productive coun-
, . , ■ , 1 ; , c
tr Y' whicn is now >ein p made available for the
pastoralist. the fanner and the fruit-grower.


Itching Humor Broke Out on Tiny
Mite’s Checks—Would Tear His
Face Till Blood Streamed Down
Unless Hands were Bandaged —
Spent $5O on Useless Treatments.
CURED BY CUTICURA
AT COST OF BUT $1.50
“When my littlo boy was two and a
half months old he broke out on both
cheel:3 with ec-
zema. It was tho
itchy, watery kind
and we had to
keep his littlo
hands wrapped up
all the time, and
if ho would hap-
pen to got them
uncovered ho
would claw his
face till the blood
streamed down on
his clothing. Wo
called in a physi-
cian at once, but
he gave an ointment which was so
severe that my babo would scream when
it was put cn. Y/o changed doctors and
medicines until v/o had spent fifty dol-
lars or more and baby was getting
worse. I was ■so worn out watching
and caring for him night and day that
I almost felt sure tho diseaso was in-
curable. But finally reading of the
good results cf tho Cuticura Remedies,
I determined to try them. I can truth-
fully say I was more than surprised, for
I bought only a dollar and a half’s worth
of the Cuticura Remedies (Cuticura
Soap, Ointment and Pills), and they did
more good than all my doctors’ medi-
cines I had tried, and in fact entirely
cured him. I will send you a photo-
graph taken when ho was fifteen months
cld .and you can sec his face is perfectly
clear cf the least spot or scar cf any-
thing. If I ever have this trouble again,
I will never think cf doctoring but will
send for the Cuticura Remedies at once.
As it is, I would never think cf using
any other than Cuticura Soap for my
babe. You aro at liberty to publish
thjs, it may help come distressed mother
as I was helped. Mrs. W. M. Comerer,
Burnt Cabins, Pa., U.S.A., Sept. 15, *08.”
Reference : R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Depots: London. 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Australia,
Towns & Co., Sydney: South Africa. Lennon,
Ltd Cape Town. Natal, etc.; U. S. A., Potter Drug
& Chem. Corp.. Sole Props.. Boston.
cjyPost Free, Cuticura Boots on Shin Diseases.
;
THE “HARMONY
11
This high-class The “ Harmony” is one of the
smartest and most popular of Ladies’ Shoes, and
is fitted with neat patent leather caps and facings,
with either pumped or welted sole.
We have this dainty shoe in all sizes and
fittings, price 14/6. Postage in Victoria, 9d. ;
other States, 1/- extra.
SAMPLE LINE OF LADIES’, IMPORTED SHOES
with Wurtemburg heels, in seven sizes, either
black or tan. Very special value, price 7/6.
Send for our Booklet, “Shoelight.”
In it our finest footwear is priced and
illustrated. Post free on application.
LEEMING’S Boot Stores,
103 Swanston St., Melbourne; 303 Chapel St.,
Prahan; 1 & 3 Errol St., North Melbourne. [:
Price
1416
CONSULT
the Old HERBAL
SPECIALIST
for Nervous and kindred troubles which embitter life
and cause Nervous and physical breakdown. You may
receive the benefit of his lony; and successful experience
in the treatment of these complaints fk.hk of charge.
Call or Write.
Address: HERBAL DISPENSARY,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
FREE TCTaLL
Ladies who lack proper BUST Development.
We will send full particulars of a valuable
remedy which will ennance your physical
charms and br mr about that natural Develop-
ment of the BUST which all ladies desire and
all men admire.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CHANGE OF SEASON?
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR. ME.
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
LAXATINE
The Peerless Aperient,
The Gentle Regulator.
The Lollie-like Laxative.
The Cure for Constipaiion.
Solti by AH Chemists.
Equally Good for Children and
Adults.
ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
• TZ
BARNET
GLASS
FLITS
wOLF’BAm
are resilient, good fliars, and un-
surpassed by any imported balls.
Golfers will find they cannot do
one hole more with imported
balls than they can with FLITES,
which cost less.
BARNET GLASS
Rubber Co., Ltd.,
234 Clarence Street,
Sydney; 289, 291, 293
Swanston Street, Mel-
bourne; 10 McHenry
Street, Adelaide. And
all States.
THE HYDROBLAST.
A NEW FORGE BLOWER.
Easier to work, more effective, more durable and cheaper
than other kinds. Write for particulars and prices.
THE. HYDROBLAST CO.,
Patentees add Makers,
FLETCHER STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY, L’.f.W.
Hr.
WOMEN
SUFFER More
Than MEN!
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men.
Excess fat takes away a
a woman’s loveliness—
gives her an ugly, ungainly appearance, im-
pedes her gait, interferes with her maternal
instincts, injures her general health and
makes life a burden, rather than a pleasure.
86 Fatcure”
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable, non-poisonous and harmless.
The fat, once reduced, does not return.
“Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe and
harmless treatment for Obesity. Send 2d.
stamp for FREE TRIAL Sample and full
particulars, or call if convenient. 9 till 5.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Casllereagh St., Sydney.
#sr
PA7TN7J
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
ONCE
USED
ķ
ALWAYS
USED
-Dalli
For Household use; —To use it is the best, most
simple and most comfortable way of ironing.
Independent of stove and gas, it can be used
anywhere. Non-inflammable fuel without
noxious fumes. No risk from fire; healthier
and safer than any other iron.
For light work and travelling only, Tho
“DALLINETTE,” a smaller “ Dalli."
For general household work use the ‘‘ Dalli.”
Having a 'larger ironing surface and greater
heating capacity every description of ironing
can be done with it.
Of all Storekeepers.
Stocked by—
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Sydney.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Beware of worthless imitations.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
f
k
f'Wj
s
■'n
That Hzyve
Caught On!
They’re books every Aus-
tralian should read.
They’re \ typical Australian
from ooyelf to cover —full of
intense interest from start to
finish. They’re written, printed
and illustrated in Australia—
you ouy-ht to read them —
they’re published in cheap
editions.
Here we enumerate just a
few of lh6m.
Steve Brown’s Bunyip, by A. J. Barry ; price,
cloth, 1/-; postage 4d.
The Luck of the Native Born, by A. J. Barry;;
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
How McDougall Topped the Score, by T- h.
Spencer ; price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
The Spring Cleaning, by T. E. Spencer;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth, 3/6 ;•
postage sd.
The Surprising Adventures of Mrs.. McSweeney,
by T. E. Spencer ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Budgeree Ballads, by T. E. Spencer;; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
A Man of Sympathy, by LLarry Tigheprice,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Spell of the Bush, by John X. Cameron
price, paper, ]/- ; postage 3d.
Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by Alf Brasch ;•
pi-ice, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Ciias. White ;price,
paper, J/-; postage 3d.
Riverfall, by L. B. Porter; price, paper, 1/-;
post age 3d.
Adventures of Russell Howard, by A. E. Job-
son ; price, paper, i/-;. postage 3d.
The New Chum, by A. IT. 'Adams'; price,
paper, J/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
k-3
Q • J
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ET a -pc- p n b,, aJJ
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. Tt has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every o idler remedy had failed. J_nglisii Prices 4/6 aiul 11/.
Tliousanas of Testimoni- Is.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
WHOJ.JSSAUS AGENTS I
Mesor3 .Sayers, jrc proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared b • I. W. NIRHOIL Pharmaceutical Cheir.isfc
25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Ind gestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to talce;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and 'internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them, Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be 'completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Berkeley”: The female who was recently
caught bringing ashore opium in a canvas petticoat is not
the first.to try the dodge. The Act hud only been in
force a few weeks when a woman, described in the Cus-
toms reports as “ well-dressed and of exceptional appear-
ance,” was searched on coming off a Chinese-manned
boat at Port Melbourne, and found to be wearing
an undergarment provided with 20 or so of what
she afterwards described as “the trickiest pockets
imaginable.” As she had been promenading tire
pier for some days before the Customs suspected
anything, it is quite probable she is now in a posi-
tion to give up business and make a good marriage.
Women are adepts at smuggling : there are so many mys-
terious places aoout a woman’s clothes where small
packages can be hidden, and if the Customs officer doesn’t
set a woman to catch a woman, the chances are he will
find nothing. Despite the efforts of a female searcher, a
woman (also, by the way 1 , of “exceptional appearance”)
very nearly gotaway lately with £2O worth of opium, hid-
den in a fine tube coiled in her hair. The Commonwealth
Government, in passing the present Act, renounced a
revenue of £60,000 a year; but our yellow law-abiding
brother doesn’t let that piece of self-denial stop him
getting opium if he wants it badly enough. As a matter
of fact, by merely saying the word, he can have it
brought to his back door. Poppies grow well in Aus-
tralia, and considerable quantities of opium have been,
and are being, made here. ; But so far the Customs
Department has been too busy groping in the coal
bunkers or inspecting the scuppers of the kedge anchor
to heed the unobtrusive poppy farms not so far beyond
the suburban area. The quality of the stuff, lam told, is
vile ; but as it is offered at about half the usual price,
winch now means about £3 a half tin, there is no lack of
purchasers. And the quality will doubtless improve.
*I» * «
“Kidman’s Man”: Before the success of the
Linley chilled-meat-carrying experiment was known, 1
wrote in this paper on the importance of getting chilled
beef to England from Australia. We have tremendous
rivals. Brazil and Venezuela are both making every
effort. They are, of course, within the easy-chilled-beef
zone, -which extends to Argentina. Brazil is nearer the
Old World than that, and Venezuela yet nearer. Doubt-
less the hotter Weather will handicap them a bit in breed
ing, if not in chilling. Then there will be the Panama
Canal to open up Chili, the Pacific slope, and
so forth. Well, we must not look too far ahead,
or one may say that Australia will be out of
the Old World markets. The South American States will
probably till up in population, with local demands for
beef—always the favorite meat. Consider the vast field
for imported meat there will be on the European Con-
tinent. Australia’s big distant future must lie in Asia.
You will see your very babies cry for meat, It-is a world-
wide instinct. No use saying Asia, even tropical Asia, is
devoted to rice and what not. Wheat shoulders out rice.
Meat is as big a thing as wheat. More and more meat is
eaten everywhere as Asiatics become Europeanised.
* *■ * . *
“Itan”: The new Commonwealth tariff hit
the great Swiss condensed milk company a severe blow in
its dividends, and soon the distressed co. announced that
it was going to put up large factories in Australia.
In many cow-yards many hats went up instantly. But
there are signs of an aftermath. From the outset
the foreign concern began to buy up existing
plants/palpably aiming at a monopoly. So far there
are no bones broken ; indeed the new arrivals are
treating the suppliers with liberality—suspicious liber-
ality, in fact. Only the other day they absorbed a co-
operative factory in Victoria, and agreed to pay l£d. per
gallon more for the milk than any factory in the district
had ever done. But the agreement only lasts for two
years! What priceafter that? Once a monopoly gets in,
it is there on the spot for every ounce of business and
every farthing that can be squeezed out. If the co.
doesn’t intend to squeeze, it is certainly working its way
into a position in which it will be able to squeeze infer-
nally hard, supposing, for instance, it changes its mind
and its tactics. At present there are more inilk-
condensories bearing its name than exist under its wing in
any other country in the world. The other large concerns
which it has .not yet acquired are talking about combining
against its inroads for protective purposes ; but they
have acontract in hand, since the average cow-worshipper
would sacrifice anything to get a halfpenny per gallon
more for his juice to-day, regardless of what may happen
to him to-morrow. Once the monopoly became firmly
established retaliation would be well-nigh impossible,
and any co-operative bantling would be smothered by
tempting offers of higher prices for the raw material.
If the farmers have their wits about them they will not
let these co-operative factories go to the wall. They will
reflect upon the £350,000 a year which the Sugar Refin-
ing Co. squeezes out of the sugar business, and they will
see that they don’t entrench the same sort of monopoly
behind their cow-bails.
• • * *
“Back Pay”: A gentleman, who some little
time back bought “a nice quiet residence” in South
Yarra, was surprised and disgusted to find that his next-
door neighbor was conducting a business that—well, il
doesn’t come within the scope of the Factories Act. As
the lady was both owner and occupier of the place', the
usual tactics could not be resorted to. So, after vainlv
appealing to that vague entity known as the authorities,
and sleeping on the matter for a night or two, another
idea struck him. The establishment was mostly what- is
known to private enterprise as an “afternoon” house
i.e., for the accommodation of respectable city business
men whose domestic affairs demand the whoie of their
evening leisure time within the bosoms of their families.
The man who had bought the nice quiet residence was a
person of some means, with plenty of «pare time on his
hands; so he invested in a camera, and stationed himself
every afternoon in his front garden, and ostentatiously
took copious snapshots of the traffic as it alighted from its
respective hansoms. Very soon a slackness in trade was
noticeable, and the lady was eventually obliged to tile her
schedule or let the premises, or something, and seek a
changeof air. And the householder lived happy ever after.
THE HONEST MERCHANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In an article in the New York Tribune (September 25>
on “Australia’s Prescription of Commercial Ethics in
Imports and Exports, and also in Advertisements,” the
conclusion is drawn that Australia is the only land in
" hieh such stringent legislation is reckoned necessary.
What will they say in England, in Japan,
In Germany, in U.S.A. ?
How can
Australia make her way
In Commerce when each bag or tin or box
Must state, clear typed, what it contains?
It shocks
The Yankee mind. It pains.
In better lands no label is required.
Commercial men are there, forsooth,
Inspired
Always to speak the truth.
A reputable merchant's word, I wis,
Must be accepted and obeyed.
That is
The basis of Freetrade,
Whatever goods come out of Flinders-lane
Should bear what mystic sign they please.
It’s plain
The world loves mysteries.
Why should the Government in cussedness
Decree a brand that irritates?
We guess
It’s not so in the States.
In freedom-loving- lands of Uncle Sam
. Sound principles are understood.
A ham
Is built of solid wood.
And potted Chow or Czech or Buss or Swede
Requires no story on the tin.
What need
To state what lies within !
A good wine needs no bush, Freetrade no laws.
Distrust of Private Enterprise
Will cause
America surprise.
By every foreign firm such wickedness
Will be denounced and brought to book
Unless
Reformed by Reid or Cook.
VICTORIA.
GANESHA.


flr.
n
Self-Shaving a Pleasure!
For the man who shaves himself there is no razor like
the PLUM. Its blade is of pure silver steel, tempered
and hollow-ground to a fine shaving edge, and used by
a large number of barbers all over the State. We
guarantee and keep it in order 2 years free of charge.
10/6
Post
Free
in the
Commonwealth
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
(Drawn from photo)
“The ehampion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
fj v o Wirt.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK HI 1 TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of exDense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, 'who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends aud home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we giveaway. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, aud'enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, asthe machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. C.P.0., Sydney, N.SW.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
D.R. G. VI.
KiKfb'fP]
m
St
■
m
H
i
_=j; :
a
SSIES
r_
ĸ
PUZZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market.
Even our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts
baffled. Three entirelydifferent moves beforepurse
can be opened. It is made of superior leather, with
inside pocket, and strong polished nickel frame.
Illustrated directions enclosed. Post free any-
where, 2/- Do not miss this chance of obtaining
one of the best and-most useful puzzles ever
produced.
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to j;ive the matc,h-
cadger a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, jult
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock, Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
k
The JOKER’S INDIA RUBBER SNAKE.
One of our most successful surprise novelties.
Folds up in a very small space, and can be held
in a closed hand without being 1 noticed. Springs
out of the hand in a most natural way. Made
of indiarubber, and is absolutely unbreakable.
Causes heaps of amusement. Price 1/3 post
free anywhere.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue — New Edition
just nv.hlisheil. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Havmarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King- Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
Congo
MEVER
IEAK
ROOFIN
ķ
WHY CONTINUE to patch your roof when a few rolls of Congo “Never-Leak”
Roofing will put an end to all of that expense at very little cost over what you are
paying for repairs ?
You can lay it right over your old roof, it is so soft and pliable.
Congo will not leak or rot. It is pliable, non-shrinkable, unaffected by climatic changes,
winds or water.
It is easy to lay, durable, and will give the most service tor the least money.
Free Sample sent on request. Write to-day.
Congo Damp Course for making foundations damp-proof.
G. C. Delmar, Sydney, N. S. W. t Australasian Representative for “Coneo”
NOYES BROS (Sidney) Ltd., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
wt.
&
i
£
Trump Card
FROM
i 11.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE. ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
AlcociuO:, 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
FROM
3.11.5.
OILLIAIIDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
ad mi ttedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
397 George Street.
DOCTORS TELL US
That if Epsom Salts were
worth a shilling an ounce, no
medicine would be in greater
demand.
As an APERIENT, or for
RHEUMATISM and ALL
BLOOD DISORDERS, how
much better would be a com-
bination of Epsom Salts, Sar-
saparilla, Senna, Dandelion,
and Liquorice?
Such a combination is to
be found in
fi
V*
Golden'
Crystals
Which is, therefore, the per-
fect and natural health salt
for family use.
It is more palatable than
Epsom Salts alone.
Sold in 3d., 6d. and 1/- (fam-
ily size) packets by all Chem-
ists and Stores.
Sample forwarded, post free,
on application to the
Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
‘ MELBOURNE.
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
and other Facial Blemishes” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddocks, in which she explains
her reason for offering £lOO Reward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever grow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove —as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
eollectionof his best verses ; bound in cioth, with
portrait; price 4s Gd. from all booksellers. Post
free from IIULLKTiN office, os.
Weakness Cannot Win
in the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
wi 1 only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
23P
4-
//
\\V
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength aud vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep upyour
nerve force —and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands Of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address: M.E.B. Co.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagli and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEfH Re CORCORAN .
Ths McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name .
Address
12


A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of, using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia;
Makers : E. C. Calvert & 00., Manchester, Eng.
EC
AUdlcator. aizo
3b Inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
Catarrh is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for book et Iree, or send
Postal Note 10s. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 2.19-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
3hS 3Efj2»~y dflk, trfc
GBD
9 / if
K Unable lo
? Procure
"Ah Local
►Tobacconist
'Apply At
Wholesale
Depot
B'6
a
231 Clarence
Street, Sydney,
SPECIAL
Silver
Mounted
Nohhing Ever Like
Them Snown In
Australia Before
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCONISTS;
ANDREW McGEE
NS
-
—1
MAKt
%
Heue’s an appropriate Christmas or New Year’s Gift for “him.” It’s one of
Barling's best shapes—one he’ll like and treasure for many a long day.
Silver-mounted push, hand cut vulcanite stem, choice Briar Root, 4/6 to 9/6,
posted 3d. extra. Bent or straight stems.
Christinas and New Year catalogue now ready, posted free.
Sydney's Leading Tobacconist&Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 and 7 CASTLEREACH STREET, corner Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Saloon open all
day Wednesday.
,WAN
IS ALL THAT A GIFT SHOULD BE.
XMAS, 1909,
will proye' a memorable date in your friend’s life
if you give a “ SWAN ” Fount Pen.. , Because of,
its usefulness, it will soon become indispensable;
and, as each successive year passes by, his
“SWANs'’ 5 '’ will recall to mind' you and your
thought.
Every man, woman, boy or girl is capable
of 'appreciating the gift of a “SWAN.”' It
is sure to be useful, lasting, convenient
and always ready.
SOLD BY ALL
STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
May we send our v lllustrated Catalogue ?
MABIE, TODD & CO., Manufacturers,
London and Branches.
Australasian representative : J. A. BURKE,
15 Waltham Building,
24 Bond Street, Sydney
tm
mm
%
rAIA/i
m
mm
m
mi
tm
ml
m
i
m
m,
ffl
>:>£
45 -
14/6
35
Famous PILTON Estate,
Darling Downs,
Queensland
33,000 Acres, now being subdivided into Farms of various areas, and will be
offered for sale towards the end of December or early in January.
Rich Alluvial Lucerne Flats, Well-Grassed Hills and Nice Agricultural Slopes.
Many of the Farms will be watered by King’s Creek, which is absolutely permanent.
“PILTON ESTATE ” is famous for its Sheep-raising, Farming and Dairying Properties, and we
can honestly recommend inspection. All good, healthy sound country.
RAINFALL about 30 inches, and a MILD, TEMPERATE CLIMATE, typical of the
Darling Downs. c
SURVEYORS are now on the Estate, and Lithographs will shortly be available.
TERMS. BUYERS AFFORDED EVERY FACILITY TO INSPECT.
«ppu y TO BALCETY & COMPANY LTD., Toowoomba or Brisbane, Q
Patronage.
Unde** Vice-Ts.eg'al
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ...
Miss Van Brakkkl),
Ladies' Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlerea<rh Streets.
Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
are Better —Stronger—and More Durable Tyres
than all others *
Their immense popularity with Motorists is suf-
ficient reason why YOU should investigate their
merits before coming to a buying decision L .
Catalogue and Price List on application.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY
279 George Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
LIFE ASSURANCE.
ENDOWMENT ASSURANCE.
CHILDREN’S ENDOWMENTS.
Income for 1908 15 per
cent . increase on figures
for 1907.
Directors :
R. M. PHILLIPS, Esq., J.P.,
VICTOR E. LUDLOW, L.R.C.5.1.,
L.K.Q.C.P.1.,
CLAUDE MANNING, Esq.,
DAVID W. WATKINS, Esq.,
H. MONTGOMERIE HAMILTON, Esq.
General Manager : J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary s FREEMAN J. EATON.
Consulting Actuary : W. R. DAY, F.I.A.
Principal Offices s
VICTORIA—I4B Queen Street, Melbourne ; NEW SOUTH WALES—3O Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; QUEENSLAND —Metropolitan Buildings, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Their Majesties
the German Emperor
the King of Spain
the King of Greece
His Excellency
the Governor-General
of Australia
use the
Auto&lrop
kKToa r
The Standard Outfit con-
sists of quadruple silver-
plated, self-stropping razor;
one dozen ' tested lancet-
steel blades ; one horsehide
strop ; in leather case size
2 in. by 3f in.
Sold by all Jeadr
ing dealers.
25/-
NET
Is the best too good for you ?
You can enjoy the same luxu-
rious, safe, quick, convenient
shaving by investing 25/- in
the Auto Strop Safety Razor
No continual expense for new blade
Descriptive booklet free on request to the
Agents for Australia:
Lamson Store Service Co., Ltd.
The Rialto, Collins St„ Melbourne & 222 Clarence St., Sydney
4wio£trop Safely Razor Go.. Ltd. 61 Son^daid
Also at Paris, New York and Montreal.
Thus Prime Minister Deakin on the Naval
Loan Bill:
Mr. Fisher had said that he had no objection to bor-
rowing in time of war or fear of war. Well, he thought
it better'to provide for such times now, as in times of
war it wbuld not be easy to get ships and prepare crews.
No one objects to Deakin “ getting ships and
preparing crews” now—Australia wants ships and
crews now—but the point is, that the ships and
crews that are got now should be paid for now,
reserving the borrowing method for the time
when many things will be wanted in a great
hurry, and the country will be too much, upset to
pay for them on C.O.D. principles.
“Martin Luther ” rambles over circuses,
meat and the Nor’-West
One of the most admirable circus families and one of
the worst circuses on record is Hyland’s. They have been
on the road 30 years, and have played all over the “ Aus-
tralasian Gazetteer.” It is a family affair. There are 10
Hyland children, and they can all tumble, or pirouette,
or blow the bugle in the band. In Westralia the family
laid off the roads for a few months while they worked a
mine at Sandstone; the male Hylands below, and the
ladies at the windlass. Using the circus ponies and all
the circus rolling stock, from the hvena’s cage down to
the band waggon, they carted 300 tons to the mill, and
crushed for a profit. But the “ mine blew out, and they
started the show again, playing Lawlers, Lake Way, and
Beak Hill, and then away on an 800-mile stretch to
Carnarvon races. They played one station on the track
—to £7. -
Carnarvon has three pubs and a store or two, and
nobody in sight. Yet the place is rotten with money,
and the circus chared £3OO in six davs. The show went
to Broome by sea, struck it in the pearling lay-up, and
cleared £6OO. It looks as if Pa Hyland has decided that
he knows enough about Australia. He’s settled down to
hotel-keeping and butchering in Broome. Streeter and
Co., pearlers, storekeepers, graziers, butchers and God
knows what else at Broome, were charging Is. a pound
for beef in the heart of the beef country. After Pa
Hyland started they dropped it to lOd. and he saw them ;
then they dropped it to 4d. and he saw ’em again. I
don’t think they’ll beat Pa Hyland.
The Carnarvon meat ring is worse. It’s country the
Briton would put down in his ignorance as desert—it
looks, as poor as a crow, and it’s as rich as Jimmy Tyson.
Talking of Jimmy Tyson reminds me of what a big
chap he was. They run him down as a mean man, and
talk of him being a woman-hater. Why, he was too bi"
a man to be indiscriminate—he’d been too bashful to ge”t
the one he wanted when he was young, and he wasn’t
small enough, to be able to marry anything. When he'
bought Heyfield, and was sitting at dinner, a ladv, for a
wager, came behind his chair and kissed him. She said
that now she could say she was the only woman who had
ever kissed Tyson. Old Jimmy got up, and says he to
the lady s husband, “This is done to belittle me, or for
some other reason. Anyway, it’s a liberty. Get my
horse, please. I’ll return here when this lady has left the
station.” So he gets his horse and away he rides in the
night.
They’ve got men in Australia now who to play up
to Tyson’s memory—understpdy Tyson’s simplicity and
ways of life. They travel at night and they sleep outside
townships, and they don’t drink or smoke or swear/ But
Tyson never opened butchers’ shops and undersold to kill
opposition. Tyson would send his stock to public com-
petition, and never got behind it.
Look at Tyson’s first speech in the Queensland Legisla-
tive Council. Whyj he inadfe a speech advooating the
breaking- up of big estates, and the smaller men around
him, cried. He was a big man-one of the biggest Aus-
traha ever knew. I’d like to know what he thought of—
all his long dreams in the long night rides ; all his
schemes made in his solitary camp! He died like a big
man, too—died at Felton alone ; goes to bed ! and dies in
the dark. That’s an end for a big man.
And he never left Australia and hti never wore a hard
hat/ Id like to see him alive now. He'd burst up that
Nor'-West meat ring.
“No image-maker worships the gods. He
knows what stuff they are made of.”— Chow
; proverb .


“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
g&S
KING'S NORTON^
Cartridge!?
.22 Calibre O
British Made G -*o-
You’ll Bulls Rye
''more often in Miniature
Range Shooting with these
Cartridges.
USE NO OTHER
All Ammunition Dealers
Agents:
The Colonial Ammunition
Company J
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA yfl
m
«
The Advantage
of the Gillette Blade
is the ease and rapidity with which it enables you to shave.
Simply hold the handle in shaving position and the curved
blade makes the proper angle for shaving. There Is no
difficulty; yon cannot go wrong; yon cannot cut
your face.
The Gillette Safety Razor not only makes shaving easy, it
ensures a clean, close shave, no matter how tough the beard or
tender the skin. Moreover, no stropping nor honing are
required.
ALWAYS READY.
ALWAYS KEEN.
NOTHING TO ADJUST.
NOTHING TO K.EARN.
HAS NO DANGERS.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Gillette
NO stropping no honing.
Safety
Razor
USE GILLETTE SHAVING SOAP,
A Soap worthy of the Gillette Safety Razor.
4 For sale at all first-class dealers.
Gillette Safety Razor, Ltd., 17 Holborn Viaduct, London, England
LOOK FOR THE
WINCHESTER
m
TRADE
MARK
rIMV -
*4/a .
WHEN BUYING
Rifle or Pistol
Cartridges
Winchester Cartridges—
the Red W Brand are
sure fire and accurate. In
Winchester and other
makes of guns they al-
ways give the best results
and results are what
count. They cost a few
pence more than inferior
makes, but they are
pounds better. & Jj,
Sold by Dealers Everywhere.
k
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the chest it is,invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6 Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by W. G. HEARNE & Co., Ltd.,
Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
110 (v to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book o.v De Foe,) Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is (id. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d' Mechanics’
Workshop Handy rook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. Mv N eigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The IiULLKTiN series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of /Life,
10s Cd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s (id. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), pr.ice Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is lid. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Relit a iio ns, Is. Ao r Lui l n ( B 1 atch-
ford), Od. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for the
British, 4d. : Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taugiit, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ss
H
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS) and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of youngs and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. , Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of inert and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-Covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAROS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &Ci, with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card' Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is, Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. ported. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is fid. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of P.occaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s (id each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IMF" Established 25 l'ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Mileord’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. HowtO
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Gure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing' Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s. Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
$
4
Food.
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
tree from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold m tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.
By “ The Undersigned ” :
A recent Bulletin par. mentioned the N.S.W. Police
Offences Act in its relation to interference with young
girls in the street. Which is remindful. One night not
manj' weeks ago, a fetching young flapper stood for some
time at the Bourke-street end of the General Post Office,
Melbourne. Not far away I was finishing my pipe before
turning into work till morn in an ungrateful Post Office.
Presently appeared a flashy-looking fellow who, after
slowing down in his walk, approached the girl and raised
his hat. She swung away from him, but he was not
easily turned off, and was about to speak to her again
when a dapper little man stopped suddenly and jolted
the other over the gutter and far into the roadway. Also
he,called him several kinds of cad. The other regained
the footpath and walked swiftly round the corner.
I had a few minutes left, and 1 commended the
passing stranger upon his action ; also, after exchanging
a few remarks on the too frequent occurrence of this kind
of thing, I thought it proper to reward his chivalrous
action with a drink. He accepted my invitation, and we
hurried to the nearest drinkery. There I was about to
further enlarge upon his manly action in succoring
virtue in distress, when he said, “ Yes, yes, that’s right,
of course ; but it’s this way : Round in Elizabeth-street,
f was trying to chat a tasty young tom when a hulking
brute hit me in the trousers with his boot, and called me
a low hog. He was too big to talk back at, and I left;
but when I saw his nibs trying to word it to that young
one, I passed the trouble on to him. This chap was bigger
than me, but then in a busy street it’s pretty safe to deal
if. out to a fellow like him. There’s always somebody
about who reckons he’s cut out for a general peacemaker,
and he’ll stop anything like a scrimmage before it goes
far.” lagreed with his sentiments, but added that I had
never Experienced trouble of the kind because I always
endeavor to make sure of my mark before wording any
Stray heifer. He was expressing his approval of my
wisdom in this respect, and was about to tell me of the
shine bit of skirt he had introduced himself to on the
same spot a few nights before, when the hour began to
toll, and I struck out for the sorting-room.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.vS.W.
Tshe LEADING
HOUSE
ķ
Goods
Fishing TacKle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
THE MAINE
Pine
■Shewing Qifle /tparr
The Maine" S.S. Rifle
CANT
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2|lb., fitted with plain V back sight if
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards ...
Postage on one Rifle—ls 3d, N.S.W. 2s 2d. Inter-State.
It’s High Time You Tried
WINCARNIS
THE WORLD S GREATEST RESTORATIVE.
Wincarnis is an ideal Wine Tonic —a combination
of choice Wine, Extract of Meat and Extract of
Malt ; all blood-formers of highest value and most
beneficial to the system.
If your Health is not all it should be, if you are run down, depressed
and debilitated, try Wincarnis now —-at once. The supreme test
of merit lies in the good Wincarnis will do you. It checks
deterioration, supplies nourishment and strength immediately, bracing
up the nerves, making new blood, creating new tissues, and giving
Health and Life to Brain and Body.
Test Wincarnis to-day; what it has done for others it will do for you.
Wincarnis can be obtained from any Wine Merchant, Licensed Chemist or Grocer.
COLEMAN &t CO. LTD., Wincarnis Works, NORWICH, ENGLAND.
Australasian Depot: FASSETT &. JOHNSON, 5 and 7 BarracK Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
/
W
&
1
w
V:
1
THE RELIABLE
4BDUJULA
MILD, MEDIUM, and
FULL FLAVORED.
HAVE SECURED THIS
MARKET BY ACTUAL
MERIT.
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo made, 10/6 per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored,
11/6 per 100. Suitable for pipe smokers.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/0 per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part ot the Commonwealth from leading Tobacconists, or write the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCK ART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYONEY.
who will acquaint you of the nearest supplier, or post to you direct till an agent is appointed.
Postage—Add Cd. per 100 to vour remittance.
ĸ
A MONEYMAKER for Hotelkeepers.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Sodawater at 3d. per dozen.
We guarantee the Machine to do the work.
A FORTUNE Tor ENTERPRISING HOTELKEEPERS
Complete Outfits from SLIS. Sold on Easy Terms.
Soda Fountains and Carbonators to suit Chemists and
Confectioners. Write to-day.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.,
167 GEORGE STREET, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING ,
SALT
INVIGORATING


Good Dinners
are
i
a
S’
1
tft
>3
I
75*
33
m
x 5
M
[fiSJ
2#
ii.!iini»
m
SSSR:^
2*q
When you take
s«
<3»
s*s«»
ss
<9>^
•£?
e®
» Digestive
4 HEAL that
Qbstiwate Sore !
™ 18-MONTHS-OLD DISCHARGING WOUND
THAT DEFIED ALL ORDINARY TREATMENTS.
CUTS and bruises are often very obstinate in refusing to heal. The
edges of the wound remain inflamed and sore, and there is a daily
danger of disease=germs getting in the raw flesh and giving rise to
serious complications. This neglect of improper treatment of an injury, be
it a cut, burn, scald, or even a simple scratch, is a menace to life.
In cases where wounds refuse to heal quickly, Zam=Buk will make
skin grow naturally and perfectly once again. Zam-Buk rubbed gently
over a wound has the remarkable effect not only of rendering the wound
proof against disease-germs, but of growing new skin tissues. Thus Zam-
Buk heals wounds in a perfectly natural manner, and the possibilities of
eczema and other torturing skin-diseases are entirely defeated.
“ My son received a kick on the shin while playing football,” says Mrs. J. Smith, of
56 Main Street, Palmerston North, N.Z., “resulting in a nasty lacerated w'ound, and ex-
posing the bone. I tried various remedies —so-called ointments and healers—but they
had not the slightest effect, and at the end of eighteen months it was an ugly discharging
wound. I grew very anxious, because I was afraid that my son would have a chronic sore.
About this time, Zam-Buk being recommended, I decided to apply it. To my great
relief the boy’s leg began to heal, and by the time we had used two small pots of Zam-Buk,
the wound was perfectly well. It has never shown any sign of break-out again, which
reflects great credit on the wonderful cleansing and healing pow'ers of Zam-Buk.”
EVERY HOME KEEPS ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is without equal for cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, scratches,
boils, eczema, pimples, running sores, scalp diseases, poisoned wounds,
festering sores, bad legs,ringworm, barber’s rash,sore,aching feet, summer
rash, and all injured and diseased conditions of the skin. Zam-Buk is obtain=
able from all chemists andstores, or from Zam=Buk Co., 39 Pitt St., Sydney.
ķ
“Rub it in"
1/6
&
3 6
P
E
R
P
O
T
A White Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE, from my crow’s-nest high—
My balcony near the sky—
I watch the world go by.
Black cares are blown from my brain,
Like smoke by the breath of morn:
I f e el—like a man new-born—
The joy of my life again.
O, it is brave and fine !
O, it is glad and gay !
Sweeter than kiss of woman,
That life from death might summon,
Richer than rarest wine.
Is the breath of the world to-day.
Aho ! The day is fair !
The white maid Spring has come,
With bloom of the early plurn,
And beautiful pink peach-blossom,
For nosegay in her bosom —
And the wattle-gold as a crown for her golden
hair.
O, it is fine and brave
To see each little wave
Tossing gaily its pennon white in the sun—
Like a little blue cavalier,
With a white-rose flag on his spear,
Laughing lightly for joy of a battle won.
In the green old garden below,
Where the lady acacias grow,
And the sun a symphony weaves,
There is music of million leaves,
And a marvellous harmony
Of the spring, and the sun, and the sea.
But an old tree bends and nods—
Like one of the old dead gods—
And says : “Ye are young and free !
I was once as young as ye.
Dance lightly, and gaily thrive—
’Tis good to be young and alive !”
Here is no music that grieves 1
Here is a song like none
Sung over ancient graves :
The silver sides of the leaves,
The silver crests of the waves,
Dance in the wind and the sun.
And the Ferries, through and through,
Like shuttles do weave apace
On the Harbor’s robe of blue
Their ribbons of snow-white lace.
The small yachts curvet and prance,
And the little launches dance,
Each witli its barge behind,
And its streamer of smoke in the wind.
A great ship breasts the tide :
Close-rigged she is arid tall,
And a tug-boat black and small,
Moving along her side,
Puffs out its little fiery heart of pride.
Surely there is no grief
But to-day it finds relief ?
Sbrely on his last way
No dead man rides to-day ?
When the days that have passed arise
On the Day that is to be,
When souls leave the land and sea
And graves under many skies,
This day I shall know, and say—•
“ I was alive that day.”
VICTOR J. DALEY.
The Chastening of Mitchell
and Others.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
day was hot, and the river itself
I was listless and mud stagnant, and seemed
to share in the universal protest against
existing things.
In Main-street, facing the river, the long corru-
gated iron building where Mitchell had his office
looked like a rolled-out slab of uncooked pastry,
divided into sections with a clean cut of a knife.
Mitchell was editor of the Mulga Despatch, a
bi-weekly of some pretensions. The offices of the
Despatch were at the end of the row of buildings,
and its situation enabled the sun to get at its iron
sides as well as its roof. In the editor’s room
were two chairs, besides a table with pigeon holes
over it, and a commodious w.p.b. One chair
revolved on its axis, and commanded a certain
amount of respect at Mulga, where train freight
was high and office chairs of a revolving breed
were scarce. In the beginning of things Mitchell’s
other chair had been cane-bottomed, but now it
was worn out through the enormous staying
powers of Mitchell’s visitors.
Mitchell was localising a borrowed leader when
his eye encountered the fringe of dishevelled
whiskers round the wooden face of chair minor,
and there sprang up within him a tired resent-
ment because of its aggressive unloveliness. A
couple of hours ago the Rev. Werne had balanced
himself uneasily on an angle in the frame, and had
chosen the occasion to remark, with questionable
taste, that the structure was an illustration of the
insecurity of our hold upon life. If the parson
had come in to pay for the jobbing of his temper-
ance leaflets Mitchell could have dragged his face
into the semblance of a smile, but Rev. Werne’s
visit had no cash basis to rest upon.
Mitchell now eyed the decrepit arrangement
ruefully. The chair illustrated one of his griev-
ances, and to-day it aggravated him beyond
endurance. With its ragged, woolly-looking
beard it had a stuffy appearance that was mad-
dening.
Mitchell’s shears had wet bandages round them
to keep them from scorching him when he lifted
them for active service in conjunction with the
paste-pot, and with these shears he cut off the
chair’s beard and threw it into the w.p.b. The
gaping aperture, rendered almost indecent by
this act of vandalism, he covered with a slab of
cardboard.
The amateur barber subsided, sweating, into
his revolving magnificence, and so overcome was
he that he did not see the entrance of a unique
little man with a pallid helmet. He had availed
himself of an invitation painted on the door to
“enter without knocking.” The quaint little
person appeared with rather the air of one accus-
tomed to making sudden and violent exits, and
deposited himself hastily on the sheet of card-
board. As he did so, his boots and his helmet
fraternized in mid-air, while the rest of him, from
his lowest vest button down, disappeared through
the thin cardboard like a circus clown through a
parchment hoop. When Mitchell had blinked
the sweat out of his eyelashes he saw before him
something which might have been a plump um-
brella built on collapsible principles.
The visitor wriggled himself free of his card-
board embellishment and beamed placidly on
Mitchell as though this method of seating himself
was a recognised part of a business call.
“The editor, I presume,” he said, cheerfully.
“At your disposal,” answered Mitchell, trying
to infuse the remark with a degree of originality.
“You are, of course, aware that the Peerless
Vaudeville Theatrical Troupe intends showing in
Mulga Reach within the next fortnight.”
Mitchell waved a comprehensive hand. He was
not aware, not even dimly so ; but it is not part of
an editor’s duty to be unaware of anything.
“My business with you is for the purpose of
ascertaining your charges for printing and dis-
tributing three or four thousand handbills.” He
talked like a hundred years old sampler.
Ten shillings per thousand had paid Mitchell
handsomely a couple of weeks ago, but with the
almost involuntary glance he cast at the notice
over the mantelpiece, “ Politicians and theatricals
must pay in advance,” his reply was “Fifteen
shillings.”
The advance agent professed himself delighted
at the price and the sample of printing submitted
to him, and as he, too, glanced at the notice, he
chuckled a soft chuckle.
“ You editors must have your little joke,” he
said, rubbing his dry palms together apprecia-
tively, “ but the P.V.T.T. is not affected by
your tacit reproach, as our methods are strictly
cash, and in advance.”
He ordered 3000 of the leaflets same as sample
submitted. “ But,” he added fervently, “do not
employ green or orange for the base of the bills,
as I always, as far as possible, avoid stirring up
sectarian strife.”
Mitchell had to go across to the bank to change
the £5 the agent tendered. Here he found the
manager and his staff of one lying on the bank
floor in their pyjamas and almost hysterical with
the heat.
At the Mulga Arms, after Mitchell had shouted
for the advance agent, the advance agent shouted
for Mitchell. And thereupon Mitchell named it
again for the agent, and apologised for the chair
incident; and the agent, while asking Mitchell to
once more give it a name, said that Mitchell
should have the strongest chair that could be
turned out of the Industrial Blind Institute im-
mediately on his return to Sydney.
Mitchell, who felt in good business mood, seized
the occasion to suggest a prepaid advertisement
for the purpose of stirring up Mulga inhabitants,
and hinted that the balance of the £5 might with
advantage be put to this use.
The advance agent reckoned the suggestion
amounted to an inspiration, but thought it would
be to Mitchell’s advantage to wait till Rathbone,
the proprietor, guide, philosopher and friend, and
principal tenor of the P.V.T.T. came himself.
“You will find the boss and me alike in our
money dealings, and he will spend a lot in adver-
tising here. Especially so as he will recognise
what a splendid medium you are.” Thereupon
Mitchell fell on his neck once more, and again
they gave it a name.
The advance agent in repose looked like a
striped, hairy grub. He had black, varnished
boots, trousers of tussore silk, black coat and vest,
a tussore helmet, and a black umbrella ; but if he
had been an upended zebra Mitchell would have
accorppanied him to the train. He would have
seen a chimpanzee off in a truck that afternoon,
would Mitchell.
A fortnight later the P.V.T.T. arrived with
much exclamatory condemnation of the tempera-
ture on the part of the prima donna, and much
bemoaning of a hard fate and a harder train seat
by the young lady who tied herself in knots,
and who should have been above such material
considerations.
Rathbone and Ettingshausen were quiet, unas-
men, with that transparent honesty which
often marks its possessors as a target for the
unscrupulous. There was an aroma Of eggs and
bkcon still about Rathbone next morning when
Mitchell bustled up for his advertisement, for
Mitchell was nothing if not swift in business
transactions. Yes, they had heard most favor-
ably of Mr. Mitchell from their advance agent,
and were quite prepared to put all their adver-
tising into the hands of a person of such integrity.
They discussed terms, and there was no trouble
about money. Rathbone agreed to everything.
Mitchell was to call first thing in the morn.ng
after the close of the two-night season, and reap
the reward of his labors. “ And, ” said Rathbone,
as they shook hands, “ fill our house and add 10
per cent, to your bill.”
The Mulga Despatch came out next day with
such a roaring advertisement concerning -the
P.V.T.T. as to make the splinters on the fences
curl up for miles round. On the leader page, in
inch letters across four columns, the notice set out
a panorama of triumphs, achievements and public
eulogies that made the members of the P.V.T.T.
blink. The country people imagined that the cast
included Sara Bernhardt, Beerbohm Tree, Mrs.
Patrick Campbell and Julius Knight.
Besides the scintillating announcement, there
were cunningly worded pars strewn like gems
among the reading matter ; and Mitchell, to mark
his appreciation of what he termed “ An Epoch-
making Period in the Artistic and Musical His-
tory of Mulga Reach,” devoted a sub-leader to the
show.
On the first night of the entertainment Mitchell
sat with Miss Armstrong from the Mulga Arms
in the reserved chairs, and peered complacently
through the haze of the kerosene lamps. “ A £9O
house if it’s a bean,” he thought gleefully. “My
£l5 10s. won’t make much of a hole in it.” On
the strength of this meditation he took Miss Arm-
strong to supper afterwards, and made overtures
of a definite and sentimental character during the
walk home.
The troupe was to leave Mulga Reach by the
12.30 train on Wednesday, and Mitchell did not
(Continued on next page.)


THE BATTLE OF LIFE.
Efficiency Depends upon Health. Health Depends upon the Kidneys.
Every man or woman who works must keep healthy, if work is to be done effieienhlAr Tho llTlfl + n n j
ksi”’pS2°““rs"kS s sris “ k,t *° ° m; ont a ™’ w °' k o<
symptoms are forerunners of Dropsy, Rheumatism, Urinary
Diseases, Gravel, Stone, Neuralgia, all of which are Kidney
Diseases. Only a kidney medicine can cure you. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills act on the kidneys, and on the kidneys only. They
will keep you bright, free from pain, from backache and headache
They will keep you efficient.
LASTING SYDNEY CURE .
Mr. John Loauey, 20 Swanson Street, Erskiueville, Sydney, states “I wish to give you particu-
lars of my experience with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I owe these pills a debt of gratitude, for
they have cured me of very serious kidney diseases. My ill-health commenced three years ago, when I
first had to lay up. I had terrible pains in my back and right side, and my secretions scalded, and were
thick and contained sedimentary matter. I also had fits of giddiness, and every day I would have a
violent headache. For two years I spent an average of two weeks out of every three in bed, and even
when up I was very ill. I had the best medical advice and treatment to be procured ; ten leading Sydney
physicians treated me in the three years of my illness ; their bills totalled £lBO. The general idea was
that I suffered with stone in the kidneys, and I was constantly advised to undergo an operation. At last
a specialist put me under the X rays. He tolO me that it was unnecessary to be operated on, as my
kidneys were too far gone for an operation to benefit me. I gave up all hope of recovery, and fully
expected to die soon, and my friends were of the same opinion. My lawyer was brought home.’ and made-
out my will; I was held up to sign it. Not long after this I was advised to use Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. The man who urged me to give this remedy a trial had been cured by it, and had the utmost faith
in its healing properties. He told me he had been doubled up with the ailment, and not able to get
about at all, and one box had cured him, and for good. One could not but be convinced that he was in
thorough earnest, so I sent for a supply to Ellis’s Pharmacy, Erskineville. I used nine boxes, and was
cured. I felt no good effects until I was using the third box ; but after that my recovery was gradual.
The medicine I took before I got Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills would stock a chemist’s shop. I had
fallen away five inches round the waist, but I have regained all the lost weight. I might mention that
the operation which had been suggested was to cost me £6O. My cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cost me less than 30s. If I had used these pills when I first got ill, I would be considerably over £2OO
richer to-day. My recovery is well known, and may be authenticated by many ; but if any sufferer
would like to call, I shall be glad to substantiate this testimonial.”
Four'years later Mrs. Loaney says : —“ lam pleased to be able to say now that my husband is still
free of kidney trouble. In fact, he was never better in his life, and is without ache or pain. I think his
cure is marvellous, for he is 77.”
il A
J
A > A
A
K
A
A
Z
M
I
i
1
J
1
Be
“Every Picture
Tells cl Story.”
DOAN’S,
Remember!
DOAN'
Backache
Kidney
PHIS
2s. 9d. per bottle,
at all Chemists and
Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt St., Sydney.
permit any dust to settle on his boot soles as he
went to round up his £l5 10s. Arrived at the
hotel, he was told that Rath bone had waited for
him, and had then driven off in the nearly only
cab down to his office. Mitchell fell over the
priina donna’s dress basket, and rushed out to
engage the second only cab. He told the driver
to go for his life ; but, in spite of this speed, he
arrived at the office to find Rathbone gone. "He
seemld cronk at not seeing you, as he wanted to
settle his account,” the foreman added calmly, just
asthough the spectacle of persons pursuing Mitchell
to settle their accounts was to be encountered
every day. A double fare to the second only cabby
brought Mitchell to the station in time to find
Rathbone seeing to the comfort of the troupe.
When he sighted Mitchell, a look of profound and
gentle resignation spread over his face. But he
smiled a cheerful smile, which was sadder than
tears, and grasped the editor’s hand between both
his own.
“Mitchell, my boy, of course you have heard,
in spite of my efforts to keep the affair quiet.”
“I’ve heard nothing.” Mitchell’s throat was
dry, and he felt a sudden twinge in the region of
the spinal cord. By this Mitchell realised that
the spinal cord must be intimately connected
with matters concerning money.
“My partner. . . . Gone with all last night’s
takings. .. . Alas, my poor people ! It is for
them I grieve, and not for myself.”
“But what about me?” Mitchell’s voice
sounded brutal to himself, but—hang it all.
“Oh, you’ll be all right,” and Rathbone lifted
sad, trusting eyes to Mitchell’s. “ That is why
I wanted to see you in the privacy of your office.”
He drew the editor of the Mulga Despatch to
one side as he said, “ You know my principle in
money matters. I owe no man anything. I have
here in my possession something I value better
than life itself.” His emotion choked him for a
moment, and he turned away his head; then,
pulling himself together with a perceptible effort,
he said, “Into your hands, as an earnest of my
faith, I trust this souvenir of the love and good
wishes of my dear friends in Sydney.” He drew
from his vest pocket a plain but handsome gold
watch with an inscription inside the case. Un-
hitching it from its chain, he solemnly, with
the action of one elevating the Host, handed it to
Mitchell. “ Immediately on my return to Syd-
ney I will settle your account, and then I shall
expect the return of the watch, as I value it more
than anything else on earth.”
Mitchell’s sense of decency prompted him to
trust the good chap without any security, and he
said so.
But the mere suggestion seemed to pain Rath-
bone, for lie put the time-piece into Mitchell’s
hand and said, impressively, “ There is only one
thing I want you to promise. That is that you
will not mention the circumstance, and will put
the memento in safety till you return it to me.”
This Mitchell promised to do. Indeed, so much
did the whole affair impress him that on his return
to the office he locked the watch away in his safe,
there to await redemption.
A month went by, and the P.Y.T.T. was still
touring m the North, therefore Rathbone had not
sent for his watch. Thanks to the eulogistic
letters which Mitchell had written and empowered
Rathbone to deliver to the editor of the Dismal
Swamp Advertiser and the proprietor of the
LiOngreach Banner, the troupe had received
eyery assistance, and bumper houses, the result of
boom advertising, were the result.
Longreach was holding its annual show, and
Mitchell was on his way to it. The train stopped
for refreshments at Dismal Swamp, and there,
waving a hilarious welcome with a patriarchal
walking-stick, stood Stinson, editor of the Dismal
Swamp Advertiser. In the short space'of time
allowed to travellers Mitchell and he went to
dinner, and as Mitchell hastily gulped his scalding
soup at the railway dining-room, the trouble
happened. ,
“ And now, Richard, my boy, how did you get
on with the theatricals?” Stinson asked pon-
derously.
“Splendidly.” The soup was too hot, and the
time allowed for the meal too short for many par-
ticulars. “And you?”
“Oh, very well indeed. He was a surprisingly
fine fellow, that Rathbone. I’ll never forget how
his eyes filled when
Stinson hesitated and stopped. He had not
meant to say so much, but Mitchell dropped his
soup with a crash and sat up. “Eyes filled—
how ? ”
“ Didn’t you hear down at Mulga? The troupe
was robbed the night they played here, the whole
of the proceeds of a full house taken, and the
thief got away without leaving a clue behind
him.”
“ Who paid you ?” Time was getting precious,
but this information was worth missing the train
for.
“I’d rather not mention. A little matter of
honor—man to man, you know.” Then, seeing on
Mitchell’s face a wild, horrified look, he added
hastily, “ Oh, it’s all right, my dear boy; how-
ever things go I’m well covered.”
“Paid in kind I suppose,” supplemented
Mitchell, with dawning intelligence as he clutched
the roast pork even as a drowning man clutches a
straw.
“Something like that,” admitted the guileless
old typesetter. “You see, it was this way.
When Rathbone—-fine fellow—found that the
thief had got quite away, and he was still in my
debt, he insisted—yes, insisted, shamefacedly, as
though detected in taking a mean advantage of
another’s misfortune—on my holding as security
his gold presentation watch, which had been given
to him as a mark of esteem by his friends and
admirers in Sydney.”
Mitchell’s roast pork was dust and ashes, and
he was feeling the well-known tightness in the
region of his spinal column.
“It was a most pitiful case,” went on Stinson,
“and I really did not want to take the watch ;
but he insisted with tears in his eyes. I felt some
degree of responsibility over such a valuable
article, and I at once deposited it for safe keeping
in the bank, where it now lies waiting for him to
send for it. He asked me not to mention the
circumstance ; so I trust you, my boy.”
The bell was ringing, and Mitchell rose with a
gloomy remark, “You and I could fill a bolster
with our feathers, so clean-plucked have we been.”
At Longreach everything was humming on
account of the show, and it was not until the
weight-guessing competition, the stallion parade,
and the milking contest were over that Mitchell
had an opportunity of speaking to O’Toole, the
editor of the Longreach Banner.
“ How did Oi get on ? Well, be dad, there you
ask me. Oi thought at first Oi was right on it,
but now Oi’m beginning to think it’s right off it Oi
am. Oi don’t mind nursin’ a man’s gold watch
for him for a day or so, but when it comes to a
fortnight, and me with strict instructions not to
spend it, Oi’ra about thinkin’ O’d rather have a
couple, of cases of whisky for an ornament than
the finest presentation machine that ever ticked ! ”
More light was breaking on Mitchell.
“ And did they pay well ?” he asked gloomily.
“ Pay ! Be gor, the poor devils had the luck of
deported Kanakas when they showed here. Oi
gave them foine notices, and their house was
packed. But the partner, a German chap, skipped
with the boodle the very night of the play. Ave
course, Rathbone couldn’t pay me. What for am
I runnin’ a news rag, if it’s not for nobody to pay
me ! But Rathbone, he was a white man. He
left his gold prisintation watch with me, and Oi
am to return it when he settles my account.”
“ I suppose, by chance, he hadn’t tears in his
eyes when he handed it to you, and he didn’t ask
you as a favor not to mention the transaction,”
snarled Mitchell.
“Sure, and so he did entirely. But how did
y(®» know ? ”
“How did I know?” with the calmness of
despair. “ Well, to tell you the truth, I had
almost forgotten his words when he entrusted me
with my presentation watch, but Stinson at
Dismal Swamp refreshed my memory from what
he said when he entrusted him with his.”
That night a telegram of over 60 words, of
which part w r as the signature of Terence O’Toole,
went flashing over the wires, to where, at Dingo
Vale, the P.V.T.T. were playing to a boom house.
When the answer arrived an hour later, the vet
who doctored Longreach said that it was a fortu-
nate thing that a cool spell had set in, or the
apoplexy which seized O’Toole might have been
hopeless. The answer ran, “Will have you
arrested under Section 31 of the Pawnbrokers
Act, which deals with the acceptance of goods in
lieu of payment.”
*****
When Mitchell was in Sydney some months
later he noticed, in a big jeweller’s shop, a number
of rolled gold watches, the make of which had
become bitterly familiar to him. “ How much ?”
he asked.
“ We do that line at 16 bob apiece,” replied the
jeweller. “ They’re very popular. A chap came
in some months ago and ordered two dozen of
them. You’ll find them in use all over the
country districts.”
MARY LEITH.
The Roads to Everywhere.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
wander from the Heart of Things—
and many roads there are—
The roads that lead to Further Out—past
blaze and block and bar ;
The roads that lead to Further Still—to places
vague and strange,
Where Life has scarcely ever felt the thrill of
ceaseless change;
The roads that lead away from Strife—but not
away from Care —
The lonely, sandy, silent Roads that Lead to
Everywhere !
Aye, manifold, morose they are, and ever lorn and
lone—
And yet the wreck and vagabond shall claim
them for his own !
Hell trudge along their solitudes,'and he shall
sleep beside,
When all the cities of the world would starve him
and deride.
And out and out —and further out —the beacon
blazes there—
The Highways Cosmopolitan that Lead to Every-
where !
There’s room along their lonely lengths to picture
and to plan,
To soar above the craven cant of creed and caste
and clan.
And if the germ and gist of things have gone
beyond recall,
’Tis better far to merely dream than never dream
at all !
For if no dreamers had their dreams, would ever
doers dare ?
And countless visions deck the Roads that Lead
to Everywhere !
No splendid goals of affluence along those road-
ways lie;
There’s none to ask the Whence of All, and none
to question Why.
By stilted gait and drear degrees the City’s prize
is won—
But Custom never formalised the Children of the
Sun !
No sordid plans the Paths produce ; they grow no
doctrinaire—
And Custom never tramped along the Roads to
Everywhere !
And yet they call, and call they will, while Life
is young—and old ;
While-ever men are worn and weak—while-ever
men are bold ;
While-ever Love is worth a sigh— while-ever hates
prevail;
While-ever cads claim victory—while-ever good
men fail;
While-ever Distance whispers hope or mocks a
man’s despair,
The Best and Worst will take the Roads that
Lead to Everywhere!
But one by one, and two by two —by West and
North and South
(Here’s one who feels Her parting kiss still burn-
ing on his mouth ;
And here’s another hears a curse for ever in his
ears—
But, curse or kiss, the Open Path no class dis-
tinction rears !),
Aye, one by one, and two by two, they claim the
exiles’ fare—
And all the things that lie along the Roads to
Everywhere !
Ah, keep your sneers for those who stay where
all is ordered well,
And where, serene on cheerless heights, the dull
conventions dwell;
And keep your thanks for those of yours who
never dared to roam
(Perchance their labor was the price you paid to
laze at home);
But sneers, or thanks, or carelessness, or what
you choose to spare,
The best and bravest take the Roads that Lead
to Everywhere !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


“After having recovered from rheumatic fever i was
go weak that I thought I would never get strong again.
i
w
W
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
«ight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
Adelaide.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disappoint
you. Get “AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., LoweU, Mass., U. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
Bird’s
Custard»» fruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When Stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or ( d. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SIN6LETONEYE UINTMENT.
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
/■V your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Load- Loudon, Eng.
m use wnprlwß
CURES
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of sanie, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price.. .. .. .. ..£3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore,, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 IS
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual-price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 16
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5, Sale price £2 17
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
'Pjijcg .. , , , , , . . lw
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
0 0
9
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —.“ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney,
DR, J. COLLSS BROWNE’
The Original anti Only Genuine
(0
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England
1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
ĸ
I Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS,
BRC
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific An CHOLERA and DYSENTERY
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Me.tal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
S sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15,-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— Mill lIMMWITfIgSiIBtWKgSHgCTniIWIWirTHI'I'WB
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Yon Know What To gxpcct
in certain circumstances. All doubt is eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conclusion. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news: and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments I There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every case of ordinary ailments a cure can b* easily effected.
When Yon Kse
Beecham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world with such unvarying good results, that you know what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you —or if you cannot sleep or you „
are bilious and headachy—to know that all you require is a course of
Bcecham’s pills.
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels, Liver, and Kidneys.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1 j (56 pills) § 2/9 (168 pills).
••. . •
*■ •; -gv
pi
Electric Light
FOR
//oases.
This can now be obtained by installing a
“Steel Wings” Windmill,
with a dynamo attached and storage baiteries.
The whole outfit is controlled by a simple automatic
instrument, which cannot get out of order. <
NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE IS REQUIRED.
Note this one most important feature — that after the
initial outlay there is no further expense.
The first cost is moderate.
You press the button, and the wind does the rest.
We have an outfit w orking, which may be inspected
at any time by calling on
The STEEL WINGS WINDMILL Co.,Ltd.,
Next BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
Dept. C supply particulars on application.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 is.
F. Danvers Power,
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
/"NHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
British' Australasian
&
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Pri re* fid POST pRRE ’ £i p er y e ®*;>
iIILC KJ U* in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London- are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
CBB
SHAPES
ALL
J/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
(Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
STOREKEEPERS & EOBACCOPLSTS I
SHOULD SEED FOR OUR TRADE UST\
: : ; :
HP HE BULLETIN POST CABDS— New
X Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet ot Ten, 6d. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
r J
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenien e
in
48 hours
Each Capsale bears the name
to
THE BALLET GIRL
k
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of •
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 e G.P.0.. SYDNEY^
aa
honestly and without charge.
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and 1 will advise you
S.H.HENSHALL,
Rej?d. Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.


Garden Accessories.
4
You’ll find a Sprinkler very
useful in your garden. It saves
time and trouble, and does the
watering better. The “Frog”
is a novelty Sprinkler without
any parts to get out of order.
It works while you sleep, if you
like, and only costs 2/-. Many
other styles are stocked, as well
as Hose and other garden
accessories. Come in and see
them, or write for the Hose
Catalogue.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO 3 , LTD.,
“ The Best House tor All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
9
PUMPS,
THe Victoria Turbo-Pumps
Manufactured by
Willans (EL Robinson Ltd., Rtigby.
Wc can quote for High or Low Lift Pumps, either Belt or Electric Drive.
Apply T„ #C STEANES, 39 Pitt Street 9 Sydney
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORICINAL AND
GENUINE BAtATA.
TRADt.
an:-
MARK
The STRONGEST ami most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitat’ons, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
riIHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-
J. Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd.
WOLFE’
' ! NAPPS
At all times
ask for and obtain only
The beverag'e
that benefits.
McINNES OOBBIE INDICATOR.
IGNI u 3
FOR STEAM, GAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted by British Admiralty, and
Largest Power Users of the World.
used by the
“SENTINEL”
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
AIR COMPRESSORS
STEAM, BELT OR ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
S3NION3 Q33dS HOIH
Simple, Double or Triple Act-
ing, with Forced Lubrication.
«/. W/LDR/DGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
___ 7
Street
MERCHANT
Technical Staff.
N. B. Ltd.
ENGINEERS.
Electrical and
E. S. <& A. BANK CHAMBERS: KING & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNI
KINDLY ALLOW US TO GIVE YOU QUOTATIONS FOR ANY PLANT YOU MA
SAW MILLING MACHINERY.
Agents for Allis Chalmers Co.
UMPI
Phillip;
G
etc.
.
me.
TEL.
(3236
\5221
, A I
■i
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS —FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOU NTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
1
EY
Postal Address:
G.P.O. BOX 1629,
SYDNEY.
’Phone 1390.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Office: Mutual Life Building-, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
" r V I £J , V'
“ MINE SMELTER,”
SYDNEY.
We Manufacture
ROCK DRILLS
HAMMER DRILLS
and for Prices and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.
• "
.
ILIAI'
; be;*
u
m
m
L'' . ' "
iwirjjumihmmmiwL
w ////#////// // 1
SECTION.
[FOUNTAIN
BatUlTgro
Approved by the N.S.W. Board of Health
For use in Factory, Laboratory, Hospital and Home .
PRICES from 12/6 to £,30.
The ABBOTT FILTER is GUARANTEED GERM PROOF, and is a sure
PREVENTIVE of TYPHOID FEVER and all Water-Born Disease.
Manufactured by
N. CUTHRIDGE LTD.,
MAY WE SEND YOU A CATALOGUE'
263 George Street, Sydney
486 Collins Street, Melbourne
