

PUJWJkMftt
The Whisky for Men of Taste.
9
107 Kent Street, Sydlney,
ning
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
s&klft .Sw&U Zr & S&
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Mather & Platt’s
Electrical Machinery
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
§• AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
XSLOT&jPk.-JEX.’J?.
>fWps
Ijadley’s Orient fjotel
no
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117-York St.. Sydnej
w
s
Take it back,
I must have
*
Fine Apple ftraml
HAMS &
BACON.
CHUBB’S NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
QopgX
Hand-power Machines
to protect your Flocks
from the
Blow Fly.
inexpensive. Reliable.
(popeX
Sheep Shearing
Machine Pty. Ltd.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
Cil( , foJlLd'fiCL/ U ifafrfc.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
' ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES.
Wo make it a point of never being; out of anything;. We keep large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Colls and all accessories.
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts. Your Orders solicited.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
t BECK’S LAGER BEER
Stomach and Digestive Complaints.
PEPS SN"
IF YOU SUFFER FROM
Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh
of the Stomach or of the Bowels,
Heartburn, Dyspepsia, Bilious-
ness, Rachitis, vou should AT ONCE
TEST THE VALUE of Langefcek’s
Pepsin-Extract, lately introduced in
the Commonwealth.
Numerous descriptions of cures, with
signed testimonials from doctors, are
enclosed with each bottle.
These medical gentlemen’s endorsed
recommendations will show sufferers
of any of the above-mentioned disorders
that it is a remedy of highest value,
and speedily cures the most obstinate
cases, and is not placed before the
public on the recommendations of
dubious- testimonials.
LANGEBEK’S EXTRACT,
wit h 10 per cent, peps : cone : bantrebek,
will be POSTED TO ANY ADDRESS on
receipt, of 3/- (stamp* taken), from the Sole
Australian Afeents:-E. COMMESEN & CO.,
De Mestre Place, off 208 George Street,
Sydney, if not obtainable locally.
HANSEN’S
nket,
MALTHOID ROOFING
will give absolute satisfac-
tion under all conditions
of weather and climate.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Its chief merits are water-
proofness, durability and
comfort—the leading
features of an ideal roof.
HOPPER waggons.
HOAD-MAKBNG PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TD
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L ,c
Locomotive Builders
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
THE plant adopted
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
SUCTION GAS ENGINES
. : ■ ' AKD
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH , 1906,
against all makers.
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
helidon
SPA WATER
When iced occupies tHe highest position
among effervescent liquids.
i
■sjueSv
oo v Ninos
The Bulltin
Vo). 30.—N0. 1530.]
[Thursday, June 10, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post) as a Newspaper.


BOOKS OF THE WEEK.
INCLUDING THOSE REVIEWED ON
THIS PAGE.
Lodge, Sir Oliver: lither of Space, 3s, postage 4d
Cecil: Six Oxford Thinkers, 9s, postage 9d. °
Faith and Works of Christian Science, 4s, postage fid
Callender : Sea Kings of Britain, 3s 6d, postage 6d '
Vaile : Modern Golf, 9s, postage 9d.
Thomas : History of German Literature, 6s, postage 8d
Ssthern : Marine Steam Turbine, 15s, postage 9d
Greenish: Materia Medina, new ed., 18s, postage Is
Telegraphists’ and Telephonists’Note Book, ]s9d post 3d
Meredith, Geo.: Poems, 2 vols., cloth6s, leatherBs, p. 9d.
Meredith, Geo.: Selected Poems, limpleather4s, post 4d
Gucas : Over Bemerton’s, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Giles : Strange Stories from Chinese Studio, 7s, post 6d
Noyes : Magic Casements, 7s, postage 6d.
Berry: In a German Colony, 6s, postage 6d.
Seton, E. T. : Biography of a Silver Fox, 6s, postage 6d
Two Admirals, Sir Fairfax Moresby and his son, John
Moresby, 9s, postage Bd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular sjiys:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to L e c t u r e r s,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
uste their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung;.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post tree on . eceipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHBL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., I 9 York Street, S’ or y.
The RED PAGE
The Wider Sepulchre
The remains of George Meredith are not to be permitte
to lie in Westminster Abbey.— Cable.
Lie in the good, brown earth, where the world
winds blowing
Max with your dreams ; hills bloom and the plove
go by ;
Out in the night blue-domed with the gold star
glowing,
Here, oh masterful, if you are ever to, die !
Slammed is the door o£ their temple upon your
coining !
What if you knew it, oh you of the laughing
brain ?
Would you chant in their solemn marches anc
proud harp-strumming
Or walk with the weather—a-dream in the wine
and the rain ?
Splintering temples of ritual—truth slow-break-
ing.
You knew what these and the manners of men
were worth,
Or the pitiful priestly dream of an after-waking.
And you went down joyous to your own mother,
the earth.
Some for their doctrinal dream or a war-earned
glory
Xiie in the sacred vaults by their faith’s own
might—
You, who pitied their posture in poem and story,
Lro, sleep with the hills and the streams that are
yours by right!
What if they turned you adrift ? Is the world not
wider,
Fresher than all of their templed ritualry ?
S eep in men’s spirits and pity an old god-rider:
oleep with the world that is yours and will always
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
George Meredith—Poet
MEREDITH’S literary career began
in 1851 with a small volume of
Foe ms, dedicated, with “ pro-
found admiration and affectionate re-
spect, to his lather-in-law, Thomas Love
Peacock. This was followed by The
Shaving of Shagpat and Richard Feverel,
and, in 1862, by Modern Love, and Poems
of the English Roadside. We now think
the two prose works remarkable, and
wonder at their belated recognition ; but
the poems had to wait much longer for
anything more than the appreciation of
two or three penetrating critics. There
was no need to reprint Modern Love until
thirty years afterwards, when the novels
had reached a fairly wide audience, and
the “ precious ” people, such as Le G-al-
lienne, were talking of the poems as
made of liner and more durable stuff than
the prose.
Ihe characteristics of TMerediths
novels, already referred to, appear in
his poems. His style is abnormal, like
that of Browning, to whom he owed a
gieat deal; and in an age when
limpidity and sweetness had found
their highest expression in Tennyson,
most poetry readers passed by Meredith
as obscure. They had condemned. Brown-
ing in the same way, until he became the
subject of a cult. Some of Browning-
will remain for a long time craggy
enough to attract those who prefer prob-
lems to poetry; but, while he clipped
words to preserve the metre, Meredith
clipped sentences; at times a train of
his metaphors is telescoped by its suc-
cessors, and melody and meaning are
lost in the wreck. Lost, that is,
to the average reader—for obscurity is
a relative term. Meredith, in middle
life, did not worry about the aver-
age reader, and flashed forth suggestions
in word and phrase which could" only be
readily seized by an intelligence equal
to his own. A teeming imagination
pouring its products into fixed verse forms
would naturally result in poems of much
compression. These need to be retained
in the mind by many readings before the
thoughts held in solution are fully under-
stood. Sometimes they are not worth
while; and, generally speaking, we
think the obscure poems may Le safely
neglected. The early Meredith is reason-
ably simple, and at times he could flow,
and flow magnificently.
In the Poems of 1851 appeared the
fiistform of Love in the Valley, which, as
subsequently re-written, is one of the
clearest and most beautiful love poems of
the century. A poem containing many
passages like the following needs neither
explanation nor eulogy :
Stepping down the hill with her fair
companions,
Arm in pm, all against the raying West,
Boldly she sings, to the merry tune she
marches,
Brave is her shape, and sweeter unpos-
sessed.
Sweeter, for she is what my heart first
awaking
Whispered the world was ; morning light
is she.
Love that so desires would fain keep her
changeless ;
Fain would fling the net, and fain have
her free.
And Modern Love is the sublimation of a
psychological novel, told plainly enough
in subtly interwoven sonnets (of 16 lines
each). It is a piece of life— “ and life,
some think, is worthy of the Muse.” The
husband and his much-loved wife, who
had been disloyal, live on together, play-
ing the sad game of “ hiding the skeleton.”
He seeks distraction with a fair lady;
but finds only the ghost of happiness in
eating honey on the grave of dead love.
At last the wedded pair had parley, with
the unexpected result of the wife’s
suicide:
Their sense is with their senses all mixed in.
Destroyed by subtleties these women are !
More brain, O Lord, more brain ! or we shall
mar
Utterly this fair garden we might win.
Behold ! I looked for peace, and thought it
near.
Our inmost hearts had opened each to each.
We drank the pure daylight of honest speech.
Alas ! That was the fatal draught, I fear.
For when of my lost Lady came the word,
This woman, O this agony of flesh !
Jealous devotion made her break the mesh
That I might seek that other like a bird.
The first four lines state the position of
Meredith on the Woman question, which
he maintained to the end. The poet’s
comment in the last sonnet concludes
with a splendid image
It tragic hints here see what evermore
Moves dark as yonder midnight ocean’s force,
Thundering like ramping hosts of warrior
horse,
To throw that faint, thin line upon the shore!
This great sequence, and Love in the
Valley , should alone suffice to prove the
quality of Meredith as a poet; and there
are anumberof otherpoems of almost equal
beauty. That fiery song of the Huns, The
Nuptials of Attila, the wonderful picture
of The Lark Ascending and the eloquent
address to France, Lee. 1870, are near to
greatness.,
t The characteristic which most dis-
tinguishes his work from any other
poetry in English is its rendering of the
relation between Man and Nature. There
are phrases of vivid description and lines
of rare beauty, such as :
Bulls that walk the pastures in kingly-flash-
ing coats.
But it is not in description so much as in
the philosophic reading of the riddle of
earth that his poetry deserves study for
its meaning apart from its frequent
beauty. He held that beauty and utility
were joined in Nature :
As long as Nature holds it good
To urge her creature’s quest for food
Will beauty stamp the just intent
Of weapon upon service bent.
Nature is passionless, and goes on her
way relentlessly :
All round we find cold Nature slight
The feelings of the totter-knee’d.
She demands of man on ; ly—courage.
Enter these enchanted woods,
You who dare.
Nothing harms beneath the leaves,
More than waves a swimmer cleaves.
Toss your heart up with the lark,
1 oot at peace with mouse and worm,
Fair you fare.
Only at a dread of dark
Quaver, and they quit their form :
Thousand eyeballs under hoods
Have you by the hair.
Enter these enchanted woods
You who dare.
Yet for Man who “ builds the soaring
spires, that sing his soul in stone,” Earth
is the mother, the healer and consoler;
and—
’Tis she who kindles in his haunting night
The hoped dawn-rose.
But Meredith does not point to any
prophet’s paradise to come ; he holds
fast to the realities of Earth, and urges
that you play the man. . . “ Philosophy,”
lie considers, “is Life’s one match for
Fate,” and his poetry is freighted with
the conclusions of a virile and powerful
intelligence in its varying moods. He
had faith in Man and belief in the saving
virtues of common-sense and laughter ;
and possessed an optimistic temperament
which kept him young till eighty. He
was not a great poet, though some of his
poems have the accent of greatness and
will last. Meredith’s work must be taken
as a whole, and it is the work of a great
man.
Full lasting is the song, though he,
The singer, passes ; lasting too,
For souls not lent in usury
The rapture of the forward view.
Literary Guides
This is an age of snippets literature, short
cuts to knowledge, peptonised tabloids of
philosophy, “ Bright Bits from the 1001
Best Bards ” —and all that kind of thing.
Far be it from the present writer to decry
these useful time-savers. They are appro-
priate to the age of electricity and democracy,
for the majority of readers have neither time
nor cash for the ample folios of bygone
days. The large, leisurely books have gone
out with the epic and the stage coach. And
students like Scott’s dominie are as extinct as
the lyre bird soon will be. One may admire
the sturdy readers of the past who made the
most of what little they had got, and
chortled mightily over ye merry jeste when it
bobbed up at rare intervals ; but one does
not envy them. The navvy work is done
for readers of to-day by specialists. And
amongst the ablest of these is E. V. Lucas,
editor and biographer of Charles Lamb, and
guide to the best about the Open Road and
the Friendly Town. In Over Bemerton's (per
Sydney Book Club) he renders similar
service with regard to a few old-time books
which are distinctly worth while. The story
is negligible. The important thing is that
the narrator resides over Bemerton’s bookshop
in London, and Bemerton is something more
than a tradesman—he is a book-lover with a
flair for good tilings. The lodger begins by
buying a book for luck, adopting a whimsical
form of sortilege, and gets A Chinese Bio-
graphical Dictionary , compiled by H. A.
Giles. This does not look promising, but
turns out to be a mine of good stories.
Bemerton afterwards sends him several bed
books, such as Nichols’ .Literary Anecdotes,
the best of which is in the footnotes, and
John Aubrey’s Brief Lives, the source of
some first-hand information about Milton.
Aubrey gives a lively account of a less known
figure, Bishop Corbet, which ends with this
convivial memory ;
His chaplaine, Dr. Lushington, was a very
learned and ingenious man, and they loved one
another. The Bishop would sometimes take the
key of the wine cellar, and he and his ehaplaine
would go and lock themselves in and be merry ;
fcben first he layes down his episcopal hood,
“There layes the doctor”; then he puts off his
gowne* “There layes the bishop”; then ’twas
“Here’s to thee, Corbet”; “Here’s to thee,
Lushington ! ” Bishops and their chaplains are
not like that now ; and perhaps it is as well. But’
those were more spacious days. And, after all,
when a Chaplain is named Lushington . . .
A volume of Corbet’s poems was published
posthumously— Po'etica, Stromata (1648), and
from this, no doubt, Lucas go.t his “Fare-
well to the Fairies.” These are the first two
stanzas :
Farewell, rewards and fairies.
Good housewives now may say,
For now foul sluts in dairies
Do fare as well as they ;
And though they sweep their hearths no less
Than maids are wont to do.
Yet who of late for cleanliness
Finds sixpence in her shoe ?
At morning and at evening both,
You merry were and glad,
So little care of sleep and sloth
These pretty ladies had.
When Tom came home from labor,
Or Ciss to milking rose,
Then merrily went their tabor,
And nimbly went their toes.
—— ——
Alfred Noyes is a bad critic, but some-
thing of a poet. He thought the epic
had not finally gone out, and did Drake in
12 books. Twelve it had to be at any cost, for
that is the law with regard to epics which
no English poet would disobey. It
might have been a better poem if done in
one. It began well, but Noyes was not strong
enough to keep it up, and now it is dead ;
while Newbolt’s Drake’s Drum, in 24 lines,
lives and will live. Noyes has turned
anthologist, and gathers together a bulky
collection of fairy poetry in The Magic Case-
ment (Chapman and Hail). Again the book
is too big for its purpose and this time of
day. If he had followed Lucas’s example he
would not have given the whole of Drayton’s
Nimphidia, Hood s Plea, and the large por-
tions of Shakespeare reprinted. Any* reader
wanting the whole could easily get it ; and if
an anthologist is a gatherer of flowers he need
not drag in the whole hydrangea bush. Noyes
does not include Corbet’s Farewell , though
Puck o Pooks Hill, from which he extracts
a poem, ought to have put him on to it, as it
is quoted thei'e with approval. He does in-
clude, however, a poem by Chesterton, which
is a different way of looking through the
magic casement to the rest; and, as "it may
be unfamiliar, it is here quoted :
MODERN ELFLAND.
I cut a staff in a churchyard copse,
I clad myself in ragged things,
I set a feather in my cap
That fell out of an angel’3 wings.
I filled my wallet with white stones,
I took three foxgloves in my hand,
I slung my shoes across my back,
And so I went to fairyland.
But 10, within that ancient place
Science had reared her iron crown,
And the great cloud of steam went up
That telleth where she takes a town.
But cowled with smoke and starred with lamps
That strange land’s light was still its own •
The word that witched the woods and hills *
Spoke in the iron and the stone.
Not Nature’s hand had ever curved
That mute unearthly porter’s spine,
Like sleeping dragon’s sullen eyes
The signals leered along the line.
The chimneys thronging crooked or straight
Were fingers signalling the sky ;
The dog that strayed across the street
Seemed four-legged by monstrosity.
“In vain,” I cried, “ though you, too, touch
The new time’s desecrating hand,
Through all the noises of a town
I hear the heart of fairyland.”
I read the name above a door,
Then through my spirit pealed and passed :
This is the town of thine own home,
And thou hast looked on it at last.
+
Herbert A. Giles, whose “Chinese Bio-
graphical Dictionary ” is referred to in Over
Bemerton s, has translated and annotated a
large number of Strange Stories from a
Chinese Studio (T. Werner Laurie),' a flec-
tion from the Liao Chai, written by a gentle-
man named P’u Sung-ling, who, judging by
these tales, would have run Scheherezade
very close in the matter of invention.
The author flourished (that is the usual
word) in the seventeenth century. He
had taken a bachelor’s degree, but was
floored at his M.A. exam., and then
took to drink and writing stories. He says
in a biographical note written at the close of
his work :
I referred my non-success in this life to the
influence of a destiny surviving from the last. I
have been tossed hither and thither in the direc-
tion of the ruling wind, like a flower falling in
filthy places, but ... I have no right to complain.
As it is, midnight finds me with an expiring lamp,
while the wind whistles mournfully without, and
over my cheerless table I piece together my tales.
... With a bumper I stimulate my pen, yet I only
succeed thereby in venting my excited feelings,
and as 1 thus commit my thoughts to writing,
truly I am an object worthy of commiseration.
The jester is proverbially a sad man at home,
and the lot of the writer was apparently
much the same in China, a.d. 1650, as in
London. This poor chap couldn’t find a
publisher, and his stories did not appear
until 1740, since when various editions and
commentaries have been printed. One of
the commentators was a philosopher, whose
preface is a model in its way. He is very
severe on the schoolmen who condemn any-
thing not supported by the authority of
Confucius. “ The stories of P’u,” he says,
Should be sufficient to open the eyes of those
schoolmen, though I fear it will be like talking of
ice to a butterfly. . . . Some persons can see
a mosquito’s eye, while to others even a mountain
is invisible: ; Some can hear the sound of ants
battling together, while others again fail to catch
the roar of a thunder-peal. Powers of seeing and
hearing vary ; there should be no reckless impu-
tation of blindness.
As to the stories., there are over 150 of them,
and you must read them to get any idea of
the quaint and marvellous things which P’u
Sung-ling saw. The English of Prof. Giles
is admirable, and the book is the right sort for
reading in bed.
—
The Atheneeum received a report from
Berlin in April last of the death of Stephen
von Kotze at the early age of thirty-nine.
It speaks of him as “an author of marked
individuality, with, a strong sense of humor,
which made his travels excellent reading.
Among his best-known works are Austral-
ische Skizzen , Lin afrikaniseher Kiisten-
bummel, and Imeuropatsoften Hinterhaus.”
Bulletin readers will remember some of
the verses he wrote for it while in Australia,
of which this is a, characteristic specimen :
A SIMILE.
Poor shallow heart! The spark of latent fire
I sought to kindle into hoc surprise
Was but the image of my own desire
Caught in the startled mirror of your eyes.
1 hus boundless night reveals her starry face,
Reflected in the shallow mere, till oh 1
It seems as if illimitable space,
A universe, lay quivering below.


A.
No. 517— 9 ct. Gold Bamboo Bangle, with Safety Chain,
21/-, 30/-, 36/-
BHi|B
No. 710— 9 ct Cold Bracelet, Set with Pearls and Rubies,
or Pearls and Sapphires, 32/6.
No. 509— 9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Set with Pearls and Rubies,
Pearls and Sapphires, or All Sapphires or Rubies, 42/-
No. 7ii — get. Gold Bracelet, Set with Imitation Ruby in
Centre with 7 Pearls either side, as illustrated, 27/6
jj 0 513— got. Coid Bracelet, set with Pearls and Rubies or
Sapphires and Pearls, 42/-; 15ct. ditto, from 84/-
No. 497— 9 ct. Gold Gem Set Bracelets, 21/-, 32/6, 45/-,
47/6, 50/-
No. 493— 9 ct. Gold Half-Round Bracelets, with Buckle,
Chased ; Safety Chain attached, 19/-, 23/6, 29/-, 34/-
No, 489— 9 ct; Gold Flat Bracelets, with Buckle, Chased ;
Safety Chain attached, 19/-, 23/6, 29/-, 34/-
No. 510— 9 ct. Cold Amethyst Set Bracelet, 30/-
.l
No. 494—15 ct. Gold Fancy Bracelet, Set with First
Quality Diamond, £6 6s.
No. 705— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, Plain or Engraved, Flat or
Half-Round, 15/-, 17/6, 19/-, 22/6, 24/-, 26/-, 28/-, 32/6.
For Presents to Suit Every Purse'
TRY A COURSE OF
Anthony Horderns’
\ Famous Low Prices, i
No. 442— 150 t. Cold Pearl-Set
Pendant, with Amethyst,
Garnet, or Greenstone Centre,
£2/17/6, £3/3/-
No. 627— 9 ct. Cold Photo.
Pendant, Set Imitation Pearls,
Sapphires aud Rubies, 9/6,10/6,
12/6, 15/-
No. 443— 15 ct. Cold Pearl-
Set Pendant, Amethyst or
Garnet Centre, with Pearl
or Coral Drop, £l/14/-
No. 254— 90 t. Cold Bar Brooch, Fancy
Centre, Sec 1 Garnet, Chain and JBell
attached, 12/-
No. 216— 90 t. Gold Double Bar Brooch,
Fancy Buckle in Centre, 9/6.
o
* H 11.
3ia
- -313
STCI
No. 190— 9 ct. Cold 3-Bar Brooch, large
Amethyst Centre, 10/-
No. 171—150 t. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Diamond in
centre, 50/-
No. 425—' t5ot. Cold Pendant,
Set Real Pearls, 75/-
No. 426—1 5c t. Cold
Pendant, set Real Pearls,
36/-
No. 428— 15 ct. Cold Pendant,
set Real Pearls, 60/-
No. 139— 9 ct. Cold Fancy Bar Brooch,
Ruby or Sapphire Centre, 10/-
No. 11—Oct. Cold Bar Brooch, with Artist’s
Palette in Centre, Pearl Set Scroll, 12/6.
No. 280— 9 ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Heart
Leaf and Centre, 6/6.
No. 371— 90 t. Gold Fancy Bar Brooch,
Shamrock in Centre, set 3 Pearls and
1 Ruby, 6/6
We are Family Drapers, Complete House Furnishers, Manu=
facturing Jewellers, and Universal Providers, and the immense
assortment we offer presents attractions that cannot be
obtained elsewhere. Write for Price Lists of anything you
want, posted free on application ; pop your orders in the post,
and reap the full measure of economy always to be found in
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices
. -f —;*m«' 1 ■ ;ttrjjn?nr rrs~; m
No. 515— 9 ct, Cold Bamboo Bracelet, 30/-
&
No. 707— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, Pearl Set, with Garnet,
Sapphire, or Amethyst Centre, 35/-
No. 70S— 9ct. Cold Bracelet, Set with Pearls, Amethyst
Centre, 34/6.
No. 508— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, with Safety Chain, Set
3 Imitation Rubies, Artistically Mounted, 27/6.
No. s:l— 9ct. Cold Bracelet, with Safety Chain, Set
with 11 Garnets, Topaz, or Amethysts, and 20 Pearls, 50/-
wt
C f '' '
No. 503— 15 ct. Cold Fancy Bracelet, Set with Real
Pearls, 907-
No. 488— 9ct. Cold Engraved Band Bangles, in
various designs, 19/-, 23/6, 29/-, 34/-
iroooaoo
No. 706— 9 ct. Cold Milanese Bracelet, Set with Turquoise
and Pearls, 50/-, 60/-, 63/-, 72/6.
Ditto, without Stones, 45/-, 48/-, 55/-, 60/-, 65/-
m
umzSsS®.
No. 490— 15 ct. Gold Fancy Band Bracelet, 67/6.
No. 512— 9 ct. Cold Half-Round Engraved Buckle
Bracelets, 25/6, 29/-, 34/-
9ct. Cold Flat Engraved Buckle Bracelets,
20/-, 23/6, 29/-, 34/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


UNIT
AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON g Co. Ltd.,
Sydney's Leading Skin Salesmen .
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd,
S Y JD IST E Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best ad vantaS Amount *, PeC 'f attent ’ on
j . Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT „ ‘ ndered promptly
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished g ® f ° r free St ° nl " e ° f
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McMally Steel Patent “&RIP DROPPER."
Will Ahdrrpe « BOOKS.
ANDRADE'S
MINSTREL SHOW,
or Burnt Cork
Comicalities.
A Splendid Collec-
tion of Comic Songs,
Jokes, Conundrums,
Stump Speeches,
Monologues, Dia-
logues, Farces, Inter-
ludes and After-
pieces for Minstrel
Entertainments.
II-
Post Free,
1/2.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cattle—Causes,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
panes, 400 colored plates
and engraving-s, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, 1/3. Ne w
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/..
Letter Writer, ]/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
% 2
Diminishing'
Cards.
Ordinary
Playi »g
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
( altogether.
Co m p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struct ions;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
. , „ posted 37-
Other Easy Card Tricks are :-(l)The Lightning
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each •
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-’
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To defy competition.
WINES The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS,
SPIRITS.
CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
W Ride only^^
BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles A
logue free-
Saddle
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue i
B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The :
Specialists, Birmingham,'
England.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
refreshing
SALT
IN VIGOR A TING
iHil
MHinallKiNlt
tacts
pxcxoicks
GIGIG
gsfiuasasasass
WINCHESTER
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The important points in a shotgun cartridge are relia-
bility, uniformity of loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities and strength to withstand reloading.
All these virtues are found in Winchester “New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
y
Dread of Indigestion
drives many men and women to a mistaken dietary regime,
an ' *^ r ° mc d y s P eps i' a . It is the greatest mistake in the world!
Anybody who knows the supreme corrective value of Cockle’s Pills
can enjoy all the rational pleasures of the table with impunity. Cockle’s
i Is thoroughly purify, regulate, and strengthen the digestive system!
natural functional activity. Physicians have recognised
this for the last century.
□
PILLS
oars
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DMNEFORDf
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
AN OLD RESIDENT S
TESTIMONY.
After Effects of Rheumatic Fever Cured.
“I have been living at No. 18 Arthur-street,
Balmain, for the past thirteen years,” said Mrs.
Jane Toovey, to our reporter, “and anybody in
that neighborhood could tell you what a wreck I
was three years after I settled there. It was
rheumatic fever that was the cause of it, and
when I tell you that for four months I was suffer-
ing from that dreadful complaint, you can form
an idea what a bad effect it had on my consti-
tution generally.”
“No doubt your internal organs were greatly
upset?” j
“ Fearfully so ; my liver and kidneys being in a
very bad state, arid I was so low and weak that I
could scarcely crawl about. But as well as being
so feeble, I had pains of the most excruciating
character to put up with, particularly in my head,
which was never free from them. And there was
an intensity about those pains which was enough
to destroy one’s reason—an incessant ache, ache,
ache, that took- so much out of me that I hadn’t
the power left to do even the lightest of work.
What made matters worse, too, was not being able
to sleep, for several nights in succession passed,
and I would find myself awake all the time. Need-
less to say, that this helped to wear me out more
and more, and the pitiful part of it all was that
the medicines I had taken, in the hope of acquir-
ing relief from my burden of suffering, were quite
ineffective. I could have left them alone, for all
the good they did me. Giddy turns came on fre-
quently, and it was quite a common thing for me
to be feeling all right one moment and the next to
be in a dead faint. A strange sensation would
steal itself over me, and I’d gradually find myself
losing self control, and I would know no more till
the faintness passed, and consciousness was re-
gained. Oh ! I used to dread these attacks, for I
felt sure I would one day pass away in that man-
ner. And talk about being nervous! I was some-
thing terrible, any sounds causing me to start, and
I would tremble excessively. Besides this I
was excitable in the extreme, and so fret-
ful that the least thing would upset‘me for
hours. What worried me to no small extent was
the way my heart used to behave. It would start
beating so violently as to suggest the possibility
of jumping out of its place, and then die right
away, as if going to stop, to be followed by those
nasty fainting feelings that I dreaded so much.
And so my miserable life continued until I chanced
to get into touch with Clements Tonic, which I
can truthfully speak of as the best I have ever
taken in all my experience.”
“ More effective than the doctors ? ”
In finitely, as nothing but Clements Tonic re-
leased me from the awful depression of spirits I
labored under, and the head pains that I had en-
dured so long. It was splendid, too, for making me
eat, which was something new, as my appetite had
been non.-existent for months. I had also been
feeling severe pains across the small of my back,
about my shoulders and chest, too; but with the
advent of Clements Tonic I gained ease rapidly,
and Soon was free from all my old torments. And
when my nights became more peaceful, and the
heart troubles began to disappear, I was relieved
ot a load of care that I was glad to get rid of.
But what caused most surprise was the way I
threw off my nervousness. It was marvellous,
for not long before, I was always shaking, and
timorous in mind, and would not stay in the house
alone for all the tea in China, and after using
several bottles of Clements Tonic I was as right
as the bank. Not only had I gained in these
respects, but I was acquiring strength daily, and
soon felt as well as ever, with not an ailment left
unconquered.”
Well, if you have no objection to seeing your
experience in print, we will make use of them ’ ”
“Nothing gives me greater pleasure than to tell
folks what a wonderful medicine Clements Tonic
is, so you are at liberty to publish all I’ve said in
any form you think best. I know that Clements
Tonic cured me when I was very weak and ill.
and I know it can do the same for others, so do
what you like with my recommendation.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
• !>,TOOVEY, of 18 Arthur Street, Balmain,
m the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
J/
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this sixteenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and ei"h
before me, ° " 1
6] 1 T. D. GLASSCOCK, J.l>.
C
S'


%
A.
_ There’s nothing so
had for a cough
as coughing.
There’s noth-
ing so good
for a cough
as Ayer’s
Cherry Pec-
toral.
f When you
' have a genu-
ine cold or a
; hard cough,
I or when there
is inflamma-
mation in the throat or lungs, then
you need
Mger’s
' Gherri( Sectoral
It is a carefully prepared, accurately
compounded medicine for all diseases
of the throat and lungs. It contains
strong and active ingredients, such as
are extensively prescribed by the medi-
cal profession. It is the oldest, strong-
est, and best medicine for coughs and
colds you can possibly buy.
Accept no cheap and worthless sub-
stitute. Be sure you get Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. It contains no narcotic or
poison of any kind.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell, Mass., 11. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to an'one, on ton days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
■wanted in each dis-
_ trict. Ur e ( .roflti
fas lly made.' Write a. once, using sufficient postage,
_ for free Art Catalogues and our Speoial Offer
on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., LIVERPOOL
fTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price ls -> ° f all 1
booksellers and agents of the World. Omce : Zli
George Street. Sydney. _____
VALTER HARRIS OF WHOM THE
STORY IS TOLD
The story which mothers tell
of children saved from sick-
ness and suffering’ by SCOTT’S
Emulsion is a long and
continually increasing one.
Mrs. W. Harris, 50 Mary
Street, Waterloo, Sydney,
N.S.W., writes (10/6/08): “My
son Walter, aged 2, was
suffering from a severe cold,
and had lost the use of his
voice. I gave him SCOTT’S
Emulsion, and he was quite
cured after the first bottle,
and he is now as well and
strong as ever.” The intense
curative force which enables
SCOTT’S to achieve such cures
is not to be found in any
other emulsion, and this is
why SCOTT’S alone possesses
such a magnificent record
of success.
Of all chemists and dealers in medicines.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CUREI
S'
WHEN THE WIND BLOWS
from three or four directions at the same
time it is quite natural to expect coughs
and colds— these should not be left to run
their course, but should be treated promptly
by taking
BONNINCTON’S
Irish Moss.
This splendid remedy acts like a charm
and will cure the most persistent cough
or cold.
The cost is so small that it is foolish to endanger your lungs and
perhaps youiMifeJjy &Xs°"stock BONNINGTON'S IRISH
MOSS.” but see
IN USE 45 YEARS. BOTTLES 1/6 & 2/6 EACH.
The very best which the
Old Country produces.
HORROCKSES’
Unequalled for
make, style
finish and durability
FLANNELETTES
SHEETINGS
LONG CLOTHS, etc.
Sold by all Drapers and Storekeepers
See “HORROCKSES”’ name on the Selvedge
G.&G.149
PERFECT
mornEii
wmmaanmmmmmmmmmmm
are not flat-chested
and thin-limbed.
Nature intended
every woman to be
decently developed,
with a full, well-
rounded bosom.
Don’t stay thin.
<;5
%
fis.
dr. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD
will increase your weight by as much as five
pounds a week, and will add inches to your
measurements. It is a scientific bust
developer, a medicated tissue food, harmless
and efficacious. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and Free Descriptive Book.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
CaStlereagh St.,
SYDNEY
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester. Eng.
King’s Norton
Cartridges
It’s not for Miniature Rifle Range\j
shooting alone that “King’s Norton’
cartridges excel. The hollow pointed
bullet is a splendid sporting cartridge*
Sold by all Ammunition Stores
Agents
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION 00.
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA .
a «a
L 35/
!Sr/fM Made.
THE WEIGHT QUESTION.
In the weight of a bicycle there exists a point where safety is assured. Every ounce beyond
that point is superfluous and means wasted energy. Every ounce of that superfluous weight cut off
means increased ease of propulsion. In a Bicycle built of
GENUINE B.S.A. FITTINGS
the point of safety is assured—not by a clumsy addition of weight, but by tbe use'af tbe
finest material the world produces, by the knowledge of the most expert designers, and
by the most scientific methods of manufacture known to-day.
Thus are secured the three essentials-Strength, Lightness, Speed. The “ essen-
tial equally important-is Suitability, and this can be secured by having your new bicycle
built to your order to suit yourself.
Get a copy of the latest B.S.A. Handbook (just out), read about our latet
trade marks, also details of the famous Eadie Coaster Hub, Two-speed Gears, Free Wheels, &c.
Free from D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.), 5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
MAKES tiie SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
m
b
V
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tfln, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sale takers. BEETHAM & SON, GAeltenham, England.
Wholesale Agents-Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Heaven.
My soul is sick of noise,
Of tumult and of strife,
And all the blatant joys
Of this long frenzy—life.
What bliss it were to lie
Beside some singing stream,
And hear the hours go by
Soft-footed, in a dream !
But now I hear the fell
Street sounds that pierce, and far
The milkman’s dreadful yell,
The rattling cart and car,
And every grinding noise
That seems to fiercely say—
“ No more of quiet joys ;
To work—and leave your play ! ”
Here is no place of dreams,
All things to work invite —
The very Sun, he seems
To sweat his golden light.
Ah me, to lie and dream
On golden summer eves
Beside a singing stream
’Midst shadows of green leaves.
And sleep, and wake to see
And hear the whole clay long
The Bird of Fantasy
Singing his magic song !
V.J. DALEY.
When the Brick-Kilns Burn.
They shine like watch-fires on the wall
Of some beleaguered town :
Methinks I hear, the sentries call—
Their challenge fierce thrown down !
Here, ’neath the glory of the stars,
The years shrink to a span ;
I sit upon the Hill of Mars —
A grim Vespasian.
Or where my Persian galleys ride
Beyond dim Salamis,
I see old Athens lift in pride
Her sieged Acropolis.
Whilst brave Zopyrus spurns the fates—
Dread scats his face upon—
I wait with Persia at the gates
Of falling Babylon.
The Milvian Bridge is bending low,
Beneath the Vandal’s heel;
Where Tiber rolls his tide of woe
I lift my fist of steel!
Imperial Rome’s climacteric
Draws nigh—before her stands,
Whilst Carthage smokes, red Genseric—
Her sceptre in his hands.
Where Constantine lifts to the sky
His temples glorious,
Behold ! the victors march—and I
Am Belisarius.
Beyond the Borysthenian plains
I tramp in burnished steel ;
Yea, where Araxes seaward drains
My beaten standards reel!
Defeat and conquest—these are mine—
With Caesar’s fighting ships
I come to quaff the blood-red wine
Prom Cleopatra’s lips!
Queen Dido’s eyes, Atossa’s kiss,
And Helen’s breast for me ;
Yea, I have known Semiramis
In hours of victory !
This is the road of History
Through all Time leading down ;
Each yard of it’s a century.
Each kiln a burning town.
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Lost Ode.
I sat me down to pen an ode on Immortality :
Tomes from the pens of Darwin, Kant, and
many another sage
Lay round about me as I wrote; I thought I had
the key
To the problem of existence and the riddle of
the age.
And my little cat
Solemnly sat,
And looked at me
Adoringly.
I started on a train of thought immeasurably
profound;
Weighed the words of Mill and Arnold and the
works of Emerson ;
Pursued the Higher Critics ; found their theories
unsound,
And grasped the scheme of the finest ode that
man e’er hit upon.
And then I let
My cigarette
Fall plump and flat
t Upon my cat.
There rose a smell of burning fur, a howl of
burning cat;
The room was filled with anguish, and the tomes
were all upset;; ,
I fled the scene precipitate, without my boots or
The ode on Immortality has not been written
yet: , ,
It fled my head—
And so instead
I type
HP V» i o tiimo
macvriland.
ARTHUR DOUGLASS.


<y
mm
00^
M
▲
Ed
w
B-W
“A Well Decorated House'
Is Permanently Attractive."
Wunderlich designs in Metal add that distinctive charm to
the ceilings and wall-linings that makes the home perman-
ently attractive. And their long lasting qualities commend
them from an economical standpoint.
Every taste is catered for and handsome combinations can
be devised if desired.
The low cost of transportation and their immunity from
fire makes these productions a great boon to country house-
holders.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms: Postal Address: Melbourne Showrooms:
56 PITT ST. Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney. 243 COLLINS ST.
m
Cl
O-
—
NUIARDSfoR
Btt MOME ■
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. fllcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to be placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCK<&Co.
597 GKQRGE ST SYPWEV .
AMD
laHUUmtl'X
MELEjOURHE.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin” Office
7iU»
i ■.'■r.K.'illrr.Mlirt^
I I I.JJfa- 1
I ■ ■ II
IBM
lUi *mt ■'JSJ 1 .: ’--mhii
|SII®|§I
fpfc®KiSi|
f!ijj|ffiM«i|i!£i|EiiJii:ili
iflEirosioisPisiid
ilflli
inmgiii
Mi
laufl
ib'f
iOl
JjijL
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manages.
THE fICOORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price .£1 7s 6d ;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments
watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
m
m
m
MU
I
Mffii
: :■ .
THE THERMOS FLASK.
EVERY Squatter, Motorist, Yachtsman, and everyone whose work or pleasure
takes them out into the heat or cold, will find the celebrated THERMOS
FLASK invaluable.
It keeps hot drinks hot for 24 hours and cold drinks cold for days.
Fill it up with a pint of hot tea in the early morning, and when you
feel you would like a drink of hot tea, it is there just as when you poured
it in. Just the same with an iced whisky and soda, or any other cold drink.
Thermos, Invaluable for Infants.
Here, there, everywhere you go a Thermos proves its utility. In the
nursery it is invaluable.
In the park, away from the nursery, Thermos gives hot milk, clean —
fresh —health-giving. No trouble at all to carry.
At eventime or early morn soothing hot liquids always ready. No trouble —
no preparation—if your nurse has a Thermos.
The sick room lacks proper equipment if a Thermos is not to hand.
Workers with hand and brain, from navvy to monarch, use Thermos. Every
and anyone must recognise that Thermos is invaluable, indispensable; on
pleasure bent or on work intent Thermos is invaluable just the same. Depend
on yourself for a cooling drink, a hot drink —Thermos will provide both —a
drink that is fresh and inviting and can be had just when you want it. The
man, or woman, provided with a Thermos Flask waits no one’s pleasure only
his or her own.
Makes a splendid gift from one friend to another, or for a wife to give to
her husband.
THERMOS FLASK, nickelled finish, and covered with plain leather, to
hold one pint, sent securely packed and post free for lOs.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office,' Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1530.
THURSDAY, J l NII 10, 1909.
Piuok 6d
GETTING THEM USED TO THEIR CLOTHES.
Having met the House, the new Prime Minister (Mr. Deakin) moved that Parliament adjourn for three weeks.—News Item .
Deakin: “Thplendid! Thplendid! Why, after you’ve worn them at home for about three weekth, nobody’ll
ever notice that you weren’t measured for them.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets. Mosman, for
inn Bijllktin Newspaper Go.. Ltd., at the
Grnce of the Go.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
■ _ £l6 0
naif-yearly __ 0 13 6
Quarterlw ... ” 0 7 0
direct to Tim Bulletin Ofice Twenty-Six
Stallings sterling you can have. Tint Bulletin posted
) epillarly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
ohe addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director,
notv to A ildvess Lette)'s.
Correspondents to Tins Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) byjakincr some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
■invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
'anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
■superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
■sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
' officials. The person may not be there; the official
•always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable, to be refused.
... I'he contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
luriers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the. contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable ,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
•address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
■are observed. When MS. is forivarded ivithout stamps
■for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
•destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
'desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
I transmission of MS.
To Amu tours in Ttlaele. und White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
w other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
• — i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
O fice, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cavetown ;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
Neivs Agency, Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Breiver and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
. Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
' The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lhin.,
twill be forivarded on application. Larger sizes can be
■- supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JUNE 10, 1909.
THE BEITON AND THE TEUTON.
That the British and German Empires will one
day fight for the supremacy of the ocean is now
regarded by the great bulk of thinkers as inevi-
table if existing economic conditions continue.
The struggle between them commenced away
back in 1833, when the German States formed
their zollverein, or customs union. War is only
the last phase of competition, and so far as the
competition has gone the success- has been all on
the side of Germany. Its wealth and population
have both increased enormously, and the nation
believes that it will soon have the physical and
economic force with which to meet its great rival
in a duel of life and death. And feeling so it has,
without any attempt at disguise, commenced to
build a fleet for the purpose. An interesting
•sidelight on the impending struggle is the wav in
which it is regarded by writers of fiction in the
two countries. In Germany every writer assumes
a tone of absolute confidence. The last struggles
of the sinking Titan have been described in
detail. The triumphal entry into London (“What
a city to loot!” as Blucher said) by German
•armies, the wrecking of the British fleet in
straight-out battle, the dismemberment of the
Empire—they have all been portrayed and dwelt
upon a score of times. On the other side of the
North Sea it is otherwise. Many books, some of
them well thought-out and brightly written, but a
huge majority most lamentable tripe, have been
published in England describing the invasion that
is to come. The most sinister feature of this
literature is that almost every writer takes it for
granted that, under ordinary circumstances, Ger-
many must conquer. National pride has caused
the majority to finish up with a picture of the dis-
comfiture of the Teuton, but in almost every case
he is discomfited by a miracle or by foreign
intervention. One scribe made Britain owe
its salvation to an inventor who devised a
method by which areas of a few thousand
square miles could be frozen out, and he
saved his country by impartially freezing to death
both Briton and Teuton in the occupied dis-
tricts. In other words, he made a charnel
house of about half the kingdom. Another
made the turning point the arrival of a
Yankee aerial fleet; while a third placed his
country in the eternal debt of a gang of Russian
nihilists. Not one of them—excepting Louis
Tracey about a dozen years ago—dreamed of
making Britain triumph by the simple expedient
of hard straightforward fighting. And now this
species of literature has climbed on to the stage.
It is not good for a nation to get into that state of
mind.
The worst of it is that a critical study of the
facts of the situation bears out many of the assump-
tions of these depressed writers. Consider
the growth of the two populations. In 1816
the population of the lands now included
in the German Empire was 24,900.000. Ac-
cording to the census of 1905 it was
60,000,000, an increase of 35,100,000 in 89 years,
equal to an average annual increase of about
400,003. In 1816 the population of the United
Kingdom was 20,600,000, and in 1905 it was
43,200,000, an increase of only 22,600,000. The
British annual increase for the whole period was
only 254,000, as against the Germans’ 400,000. At
present the Germans outnumber the British by
17,000,000. The Briton is pouring out of his
country as fast as he can get away ; whereas the
German is staying at home, and his outflow is on
the decrease. As the years roll on the Briton
promises to become more and more helpless owing
to the sheer weight of numbers on the side of the
Teuton.
* » * *
All the foregoing is bad enough, but there is still
worse to be said. The Briton seems to be degenerat-
ing ; the Teuton is growing individually stronger.
There was a time when the Briton was regarded
as the equal of at least two, and sometimes more
foreigners. The present tendency is all the other
way. For Germany is cultivating its people, and
doing all that scientific development and paternal
Socialism can devise to make the race stronger and
better. Britain’s chief remedy for every evil is to
shoot pauper rubbish into the United States
first, and then in a less degree into the
British dependencies oversea. Pauperism is
practically non-existent in Germany ; it is
so invisible that no statistics concerning it
have been published since 1885. High Protection
commenced the elimination of the pauper. Then
in 1892 Imperial laws brought about the com-
pulsory insurance of workmen against sickness.
A his was followed in 1899 by further laws provid-
ing for compulsory insurance against old age and
permanent infirmity. In 1900 the Imperial legis-
lature compelled employers to insure their em-
ployees against accident. In addition to this, a
whole code of small laws waged war with diseases
of the preventable types. The public schools look
after the eyes and teeth of the children ; and those
whoarein any way defective aredrafted intospecial
establishments for scientific treatment. They are
compelled to undergo physical drill. Drastic laws
ensure the supply of pure milk and wholesome
food. Women in poor circumstances who are
about to become mothers are specially provided
for, because the nation wants healthy children.
When a German workman contracts disease he is
promptly sent to either hospital or sana-
torium, and the insurance fund keeps his wife
and children while he is being cured. If it is a
disease that requires long treatment, such as
tuberculosis, he is sent to a special sanatorium set
apart for that type of disease. There he is treated
free of charge. His family is first supported out
of the fund for sickness, and, when its claim on
that is exhausted, out of the fund for permanent
infirmity. When the house-father is restored to
health, there are special provisions for securing
him work, so that there shall be no chance of a
relapse through hardship consequent upon unem-
ployment. The State does not pretend to be
philanthropical in doing these things ; it is merely
business-like. Cynically it tells the patient that
sick workmen are no good to the country, and are
dangerous to the health of others; and as they
cannot well be killed off, the only thing to do
is to cure them as quickly as possible and get
them back to toil at the earliest possible
moment. Britain has no such arrangements for
its struggling workers. Its chief provision is the
workhouse, a place where the wreck may exist
drearily without hope, a curse to himself and a
drag on the community, till Death happens along
and grants the crowning mercy. According to
the late Prime Minister, Campbell-Bannerman,
one-third of the whole population of the British
Isles is practically in the pauper zone—l4,ooo,ooo
out of a population of 43,000,000. The children
of these 14,000,000 must almost necessarily be
physical and mental weaklings.
* • * •
The British artisan was not so long ago the
aristocrat of the workshops of the glpbe. His
skill was famous throughout the earth. British
craftmanship was the world’s ideal, and its pro-
ducts were famous for their quality and finish. The
German was then a maker of shoddy, and only a
few years ago “Made in Germany ” was the hall-
mark of inferior quality. To-day all that has
changed. The British-made boot cannot hold its
own even in Northampton against the imported
footgear. The dislocation of industry is
destroying the British craftsman. The man who
started life as a glove-maker has had to turn to
making pastry and biscuits. He was a good
glove-maker, but he is an indifferent pastrycook.
But he had to turn to pastry-making because
Gladstone, in his craze for Freetrade, destroyed
the British glove industry, and France has now
almost a monopoly. The glove-artist is only one
case among many. In the making of scientific
instruments the Briton was easily first. Now
such instruments come mostly from Germany,
and Britain cannot even finish off a razor, but
must needs send it to Germany to be hollow
ground. All this is simply because the German
artisan is assured constant work in any craft
he may choose; so he goes to a technical poly-
technic in Charlottenburg, or Munich, or some other
educational centre, and learns to be a joiner, or an
iron turner, just as the Englishman learns to be a
surveyor or a dentist. He learns both the
theory and practice of his calling, and is
thoroughly taught how and why. Then,
fully qualified, he goes to the factory and
starts at a journeyman’s wages. He does this
because he knows that his trade will last. It
isn’t worth while being so thorough in a country
where a man may learn an industry only to find,
when he is ready to make good wages at it, that
some new flurry in the free import market has
wiped it out and left him a mere odd-jobber. So
the Briton, owing to frequent dislocation of in-
dustry, has broken up his old apprentice system ;
and the once skilled craftsman has degenerated
into a mere casual worker. There was a time
when South Wales was the home of the tinplate-
making industry. Men were tin-workers all their
lives, and they begat sons who became tin-
workers also unto the third and fourth genera-
tions, till tinplate-making was in their blood, and
they acquired a proficiency that can be obtained
only through hereditary tendency. Then the
United States closed its markets. American tin-
plates must henceforth be made in America. A
British industry was wrecked. Whole firms
crossed over bodily to America, taking plant and
workmen with them. Others closed up, and
their employees drifted away to the seven
corners of the earth—many of them to Germany
where they taught the Germans how to cut the
throats of such English firms as still struggled on.
To-day England is importing tin-plates, and the
remnants of the finest army of tin-plate workers
in the world are making a living beating carpets
made in Belgium. The same applies to a hundred
other industries. Just because the German work-
man is a scientifically-trained operative he is
better than the Englishman who has picked up
his trade casually. Therefore the German
becomes an inventor and an improver upon old
methods; and the once splendid aristocracy of
British craftsmen is broken up. And when one
ponders over these things he is moved to ask if a
nation that throws away chances and disregards
warnings as Britain is doing, deserves to live.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Exit Fisher.
The Fishkr Government lias made its formal
exit, and Deakin, Cook and Co. reign in its
stead. The late Ministry departed amid deep
regrets, and the regrets would have been deeper
but for certain unfortunate circumstances con-
nected with its career. One of these was the
Ministerial attitude over the Federal capital.
The members of the Fisher Cabinet had strong
opinions on this subject. They knew perfectly
well that the selection of the wretched Yassberra
site was a sacrifice of the best interests of Aus-
tralia—that the whole miserable Yassberra agita-
tion was a sham got up by the Sydney morning
papers, which regard it as the one essential
qualification of a capital that it shall be
so close to their publishing offices that
they can secure its advertising business and
its circulation. But the vote went for
Yassberra, and the Fisher Government made
unseemly haste to change sides and join the daily-
paper-owned majority. Its plea was that it was
bound to “accept the decision of Parliament.”
If that is so, then when Parliament gives a
majority for the importation of niggers and China-
men, or for the preservation of big estates,
or for the Deakin-Cook coalition, the Labor
Government is bound to slew round and vote
enthusiastically for the importation of niggers
and Chinamen, for big estates, and for the
Deakin-Cook coalition. As it does none of these
things the explanation given of its attitude re the
capital looks thin, and it seems rather as if the
interests of Australia were sacrificed in order
that the Ministry might get safely into
recess, and make sure of six months’ con-
trol of affairs. And scarcely less regret-
table was Prime Minister Fisher’s attitude
over the transcontinental railway. His obvious
desire to drag the railway eastward into his
own State—to make it, not an Australian
railway built at Australia’s expense to develop
Australia’s common property in the Territory,
but a railway built at Australia’s expense to boom
lisher’s own State, while Australia’s common
property in the Territory might be allowed to go
hang—showed him up in a disappointingly paro-
chial aspect. The large Australian view was
sadly wanting in this matter. And there is an-
other reason why the departure of a Labor
Ministry is not regarded with so much regret as
the event ought to cause. The Labor party
still admits the Foreign-trade traitor into its
ranks. There are still alleged Labor men—men
who have received the Labor nomination and are
admitted to the Labor caucus—whose desire it
is to open Australia’s ports freely and on
equal terms to the goods of the cheap
pauper of England, the still cheaper nigger
of India, and the painfully economical Jap
and Mongol, in order that competition with
these cheap producers may cut down the
Australian workers' pay to the pauper and
Hindu and Asiatic level. This dreadful class
of sham Laborists grows smaller, but it isn’t
extinct, and while the real Labor man is
willing to politically associate with these enemies
of his class and his country, he has no right to
throw too many bricks at Alfred Deakin merely
because he associates with Joseph Cook. Deakin
has sunk a fair number of things for the sake of
office, but the sinking of the fiscal issue for eight
long years was a sinkage compared with which
the sinks that Alfred the Affable has perpe-
trated don’t look so very large, after all. On
present appearances, there isn’t much to
hope for from the Fused Government, except
that it may settle the urgent questions of the
Northern Territory and the two transcontinental
railways; on these points—if Deakin has his way,
and provided no new aspect of Deakin has come
to light since he was last heard from on the sub-
ject—the Fusion may possibly prove more
genuinely Australian than the party which pre-
ceded it in office. But on many other matters the
Fused push looks so wholly unsatisfactory that
its reign is likely to be short. The General
Election will probably see the end of it. And
when Labor comes back with a majority of its
own, it is to be hoped that it will be free from
those drawbacks which now prevent many good
Australians feeling so sorry for its defeat as they
would like to be.
Deakin and the Labor Party.
“ X ” puts the case for Deakin :
There is a good deal of blatant hypocrisy about the out-
cry of the Labor party over the Deakin-Cook alliance. I
atn a Socialist, a thorough believer in practically the
whole of the Labor policy, a suspecter of J. Cook, a de-
spiser of W. Kelly, and a disbeliever in John Forrest.
All these things don’t blind me to the fact that the Labor
party has itself, and itself only, to thank for Deakin’s
action. The members of the party could have avoided it
if they had chosen. They know they could have avoided
it. They know, too, that since they have not avoided it,
Deakin has been practically forced into an alliance which
cannot be exactly congenial to him. They know that,
through their attitude, he had to choose between this
alliance and almost certain political extinction. This is
why I say there is blatant hypocrisy about the howls of
“ treachery ” and the like that they are raising. Deakin
is no traitor. He is no “ political mercenary.” None
know this better than the men who have hurled these
epithets at him.
There is practically no difference, as everybody knows,
between Dbakin’s policy and that of the Labor party.
There is certainly no difference that might not have been
got rid of with very little trouble. His natural allies are
the Labor party. A real alliance between them would
have done more for the Deakin policy than a Deakin
Government can do, and vastly more for the Labor policy
than a Labor Government can do. All the best men in
the Labor party—Watson, Huoiies, Fisher, Batchelor—
know this perfectly well. They also know, arid have
known for years, that Deakin would have welcomed a
fair alliance with them. They have been perfectly will-
ing to conclude such an alliance, and to grant everything
necessary to conclude it, except the one thing that
really mattered—immunity from Labor opposition at
elections. A political alliance which does not extend to
the elections is, of course, mere foolishness. If I know
my companion intends to cut my throat as soon as we
get round the corner, I don’t wait until we get to the
corner to get away from him. He may be real good com-
pany ; his fellowship, as far as the corner, most con-
genial. But that doesn’t make any difference. I prefer
a duller and less congenial companion who won’t cut my
throat. I should be a fool if I didn’t.
The excuse of the Parliamentary leaders for not coming
to terms is, of course, that the Leagues won’t let them.
There is nothing secret about this. The last Inter-State
Labor Conference, at Brisbane, definitely declared againet
any alliance. The fact that the obstacles to an alliance
between Labor and anybody else come from outside
Parliament, however, doesn’t matter. The result is the
same. It doesn’t matter to Deakin and his supporters
whether they are opposed by Labor men at the elections
with the approval of Watson, Hughes and co., or against
it. If the form of Labor party organisation requires
opposition to men who are whole-hearted supporters of
all the essentials of the Labor policy, the Labor party
must take the consequences. The consequences are, of
course, exactly what has happened in this case. Since
Labor methods involved treating whole-hearted Austra-
lians and democrats like Deakin and Mauger exactl}' in
the same way as whole-hearted anti-Australians and
plutocrats like Bruce Smith and Willy Kelly, Deakin
and Mauger are in no -way to blame if, without abandon-
ing their principles, they make common cause with Bruce
Smith and W. Kelly against a party which treats them
all as a common enemy. There is nothing else for it. The
Labor party knows there is nothing else for it. That is
why it is hypocrisy, and blatant hypocrisy, for the party
to hold up hands in holy horror about it.
All this, of course, is subject to the reservation that
Deakin would not, under any circumstances, be justified
in abandoning any essential of the Australian policy for
which he stands for the sake of effecting an alliance
which would save his political skin and that of his fol-
lowers. It cannot be fairly said that he has abandoned
any essential in this case. He has stood out, not only
against the persuasions of Joe Cook and Co., but against
the far more dangerous solicitations of an urgent gang- of
his own supporters, who were Fusionists at any price,
and he has made the Cook people take him on his own
terms. And, considering that Cook and his men had
been denouncing most of his proposals for several years,
the terms were pretty high. However, he got them, and
he goes into the alliance with clean hands.
The question involved is not merely one about this
election. It involves the whole future of the Labor
party. If it is a finally settled plank in the party policy
that there is to be no alliance extending to elections, this
will have a material bearing on the future of Australian
politics. It means that, in the considered opinion of the
Labor party, no bread is better than half a loaf. It means
that membership of the Labor caucus is to be the sole
test of political virtue. It means that Labor organisation
is more important than Labor principles. It means that
as the Laborite’s hand is lifted against every man, every
man’s hand will be lifted against him. It means, in ail
probabilit3'—and this is the most serious aspect of it to
people who think more of Labor policj' than they do of
Labor methods —the perpetual exclusion of Labor from
office, except on chance occasions for short periods, when
the other fellows happen to be quarrelling among them-
selves, and when there is no real chance of doing any-
thing. Of course, they may think so highly of their
methods of isolation and independence that they are pre-
pared to face these consequences. If that is so, there is
nothing more to be said, except that they shouldn’t
squeal when these consequences begin to come home to
them, as they are doing now.
-V
Fight, or Play the Anti-Sosh Game : Which?
Thus the lachrymose Joe Cook, in Sydney Daily
Telegraph (7/(i/’O9)
Senator Pearce declared in the Senate on Thursday
last that they would force a dissolution, meaning that
they would obstruct the business of the House, and refuse
to let it be done.
Both the Herald and Telegraph claim that this
intention of the Laborites to “ force a dissolution”
• —which is simply to say, to defeat the present
Government —is a very dastardly one, meriting
the stern disapprobation of all right-thinkers. It
is hard to see the justification for such an
attitude. The Laborites’ defeat having been
engineered in caucus by people who at other
times smugly denounce the caucus system as
an unclean thing, a search was made
for one ready to take on the hangman’s job.
The deplorable Willy Kelly offered himself glee-
fully. Without being given the opportunity to
say one syllable in defence of its policy, the
Fisher Government, which had earned the
respect, if no more, of thinking men of all
opinions, was knocked on the head, and passed
coldly out. And the Tory press has now the
audacity to urge that these politicians, thus
treated, shall “ play” what it calls “ the game ”
with its adversaries. But all this anguished
talk of “ obstruction,” and of the infamous un-
fairness of “forcing dissolutions” and omitting
to “ play the game,” is beside the point. The
conduct of the business of Australia is too
serious a thing to be treated as a pas-
time. There has been a deal too much
affability about the attitude of Federal members
towards each other in the past. If the Labor
men really mean business ; if they honestly regard
the unauthorised squandering of two millions
of hard-cadged money on an unwanted battleship,
at the instance of a couple of Anti-Sosh news-
papers, as an absurdity and a disgrace; if they
genuinely believe in the principle of a graduated ,
iand-tax that shall fill up the Commonwealth’s
empty spaces—in a word, if they hold by their
own expressed sentiments, they will cremate the
rules of the Parliamentary “game,” as hitherto
played, and butt in, not to play but
to fight. The Irish party in the House
of Commons has followed this course since
its inception, and as a result it has, though
numerically small, made astounding strides
towards the goal of its ambitions. The example
is a sound one to follow. The Labor party has
been accused by its enemies of having voted itself
an extra £2OO a year. It will best discount any-
thing there may be in this charge by settling
down doggedly to earn the money. liet it turn
up to vote in united force at each division. Let
it refuse all pairs, save in the exceptional case of
the positively incapacitating illness of an oppo-
nent. Let each member of it put the public before
his own private business. That is a species of
patriotic altruism that the Fused party won’t be
able to emulate. It has been proved a score of
times in the past that the Anti-Sosh Whip doesn’t
live who is capable of tearing barrister-statesmen
of the G. Reid and B. Smith type away from Syd-
ney when briefs offer, or of luring business
politicians such as Dugald Thomson to Mel-
bourne when their own private affairs stand in the
way. A very few weeks straight-out battling on the
part of the Laborites, with all puerile cant about
“ game-playing” eliminated, should see the pre-
sent Federal administration in trouble. To palter
in this regard means the indefinite hanging up of
the New Protection, and the indefinite blocking of
the people from the land; and it threatens, fur-
thermore, the flagrant wasting of two millions of '
the nation’s money. It is a case in which no .
honest and sane party would hesitate for a..
moment.
South Australia has a Political Cat-Fight..
In South Australia, reputedly-so placid and patri- ■
archal, a vigorous political cat-fight has broken .
out over the grave of Premier Tom Price. Nearly
four years ago Price was given the job of forming
and leading a Labor-Liberal Government. At?,
that time four Ministers were reckoned enough.!
for S. Australia’s State services, and Price’s'!
party and Peake’s were allotted two each. The-
arrangement was a great success—an easier suc-
cess than it might have been, no doubt, had note
the seasons been favorable and the State therefore;
remarkably prosperous. When Price fell sc
sick that he could no longer do any work
at all, Treasurer Peake became Acting-Premier
at Price’s request. Now, the Labor members
saw that Peake’s party in the House consisted of
only nine men out of a total of 42 members ; and,
therefore, they had some misgivings about Peake’s
Acting-Premiership. Had Kirkpatrick been


available he most likely would have been nomi-
nated ; but at the beginning Kirkpatrick was in
the Legislative Council, which was a drawback,
and afterwards he became Agent-General, and
that barred him altogether. So the Labor party
put up with Peake, in spite of the small crowd of
supporters he brought to the combined show ; at
the same time, the party says that Price laid it
down clearly that, though Peake might
be Acting-Premier, he thereby had no
prescriptive right to become Premier. But
as Peake was Acting-Premier when Price
died, the Governor naturally looked to him to
carry on. At this stage, apparently having an
idea that Peake’s memory might need refreshing,
the Labor party dropped him a few words to the
effect that it claimed the Premiership ; also it
required certain electoral reforms to be pushed
through. Thereupon Peake reconsidered the
position. Though he might have been able to
accept Kirkpatrick, who was gone, he didn’t
believe that the party would now put forward a
man whom he could accept. Evidently Peake’s
thoughts ran on Verran, the party’s leader—a
rough diamond from the Moonta mining district.
So it happened that when Peake was formally
invited, in the ordinary course of events, to be
Premier, he undertook the work, and out of
his own party, which can be counted on the toes
of about one foot and three-quarters, he set to
work to form a Ministry. Refusing to hand over
the Premiership to the Labor party, asdemanded,
he had, of course, to do without even the Labor
men who had hitherto been his fellow-Ministers ;
and an alliance which had lasted for four years,
and had produced some excellent results,
thus came to a sudden end. Under the circum-
stances it seems well-nigh impossible for Peake
to carry on : in fact, it looks as though he were
riding for a fall in the House, trusting for better
things from the country. Even if all his political
opponents joined him, he could only carry
on against the compact Labor party with
the greatest difficulty, for the House is
divided almost equally into Laborites and
anti- or non-Laborites. (A party that has
worked jaw to jaw with the Labor party under a
Labor Premier for four years can’t very well be
described as anti-Laborite.) And without its
old allies the Labor party can’t hope to carry on
with much more success than Peake can. Sooner
or later, therefore, there must be an appeal to the
country ; and if the old allies cannot come together
again before the breach widens too far, the sooner
the appeal happens the less will be the waste of
time in the House. It is, in fact, a situation in
which the country ought to have a say. The
appeal may cost money ; but States must put up
with that until they have sense enough to adopt
the system of elective Ministries.
An Anti-Defence Minister for Defence.
The giving of the portfolio of Minister for Defence
to J. Cook suggests that the “fused” Ministry
means to leave the most urgent problem that
faces Australia to-day in abeyance till further
notice. Joseph, judged by his past pronounce-
ments, is likely to be not merely a brake on the
coach of local defence, but a skid, calculated to
bring any vehicle of the sort to a dead stop, even
while in full progress down the steepest incline.
There is no one outside a Peace Society who
regards the prospect of the Commonwealth arm-
ing itself on sea or land with more distrust and
pain than Cook. He has publicly committed him-
self to the view that the idea of an Australian
navy is mad, impracticable, and disloyal; and
based on a contemptible desire on the part of
Australians “ to save their own miserable skins.”
He can’t visualise a mere Australian wearing,
with any sort of credit, aboard a warship of his
own, the uniform that ornaments the lads of the
bulldog breed. Apart from which it is his view
—even as it is the view of the W. E. Johnson-
Willy Kelly school of don’t-thinkers—that any
naval engagement on which the fortunes of
Australia are going to rest will occur, not in this
hemisphere, but in the North Sea. It was in
accordance with this theory that he told the stupe-
fied electors of Marrickville last month that
the presentation to England of one Dreadnought would
be a mere flea-bite. The situation called for scores of
Dreadnoughts.
This weird scheme of hurling scores of bare,
empty, sailorless Dreadnoughts at a country
which doesn’t want them, and has said so, and
is feverishly disinclined to lend the money where-
with to buy them, is the only constructive policy
for the defence of Australia on the sea that the
country’s new Defence Minister has put forward.
His position on the land-defence question is
equally curious. No one has assailed the princi-
ple of compulsory service more vigorously than
he. He has rebuked it as he used to rebuke
Freetrade when he was a Protectionist, and as he
has been wont to rebuke Protection between the
date of his ’version to Freetrade and the quite
recent hour when “fusion,” or office, or some-
thing, transformed him into an interesting fiscal
hybrid with a gag in its mouth. Put
in a condensed form, J. Cook’s land-
defence views are that compulsory service
is un-English, and therefore ought not to be
tolerated in the free air of Australia ; and that
the Commonwealth would be wise to depend, as
heretofore, for the army it is surely going to need
in the near future, on the home-grown adult
volunteer —whose main characteristics are an
aversion from volunteering, and an easy-going
casualness, fatal to discipline, when he does offer
himself. In addition to the volunteer who is
grown up, Cook cherishes a warm corner in his
heart for cadets, and he is a perfect whale on Boy
Scouts. He has owned frequently to a wish to
encourage cadets and boy scouts like anything.
They should, in his opinion, be spoken to kindly,
and be given rifles and railway passes and
bands and every modern convenience. It is
what the Anti-Defence papers acclaim as a
“thoroughly sound conservative defence policy.”
An advantage from the Cook viewpoint is that it
is an easy one to carry out. A man could live up
to such a policy under the influence of opium, or
bhang, or strychnine. But with such a policy in
force, what is to become of the country which,
though one of the richest in the world, is, at the
same time, one of the most impotent to protect
itself, and whose national existence is unquestion-
ably going to depend within the next few years
on the possession of a, trained land force in con-
junction with an adequate navy for coastal de-
fence purposes ?
The Babel of Lawmakers.
The howling absurdity of hiring 12 indifferent
Houses of Parliament to pass laws on precisely
the same subject howls with peculiar vigor in
regard to industrial matters. Since Federation
arrived, the subject of shearers’ accommodation
has been dealt with separately by the Parliaments
of N. S. Wales, Queensland and S. Australia.
The men for whom the accommodation is to be
provided roam necessarily over four States at
least; also the men who own a Queensland station
are as often as not S. Australians, Victorians, or
N. S. Welshmen. In spite of that, legislation
on this matter is reserved for the State;
so the half-dozen State Parliaments consume
large quantities of time and money in separately
discussing a measure which could be far better and
more appropriately dealt with by the one Parlia-
ment that represents all Australia. And while
three States have separately dealt with shearers’
accommodation, four have passed laws since 1900
dealing with the inspection of boilers. There is
very little difference between the four laws—just
enough difference to trip almost everybody but a
lawyer ; wherefore one law applicable to all Aus-
tralia could not only have been passed at less
cost, but the chances are that it would also have
been more effective and provoked far less bad
language. It is the same with Truck Acts.
“Truck” is much the same everywhere, and
pretty well everywhere it is agreed that the em-
ployer ought to pay his wages in money,
and not squeeze the employee into “taking
it out” in goods from the employer’s store. Yet,
instead of being authorised to legislate on a
matter even of that kind, the separate State Par-
liaments dig away at it at great unnecessary ex-
pense, so that no less than five Truck Acts have
been passed in Australia since 1889; and there
have been almost twice as many on the twin sub-
ject of workmen’s liens. Then with regard to
factories, six State Parliaments, each supporting
a Black Rod and other expensive superfluities,
have one after another passed laws declaring that
the premises shall be “ clean, wholesome, and
well-ventilated.” In some cases they said “ clean,
well-ventilated, and wholesome,” and in others
“clean, wholesome and properly ventilated”;
but, even with these Tweedledum and Tweedledee
divergences thrown in, it is pretty obvious that
one might just as well bave said the thing for the
lot. And while the similarity of these laws in
some cases shows the absurdity of keeping the
present hobbles on the Federal power, the dis-
similarity in other cases is just as strong an argu-
ment. When one after the other the State
Parliaments pass practically identical laws,
it is a fair argument that there are a
lot of superfluous Parliaments in existence,
or, anyway, that the State Parliaments have a lot
of superfluous powers. But sometimes the State
Parliament is worse than superfluous. If one
State were a laggard in industrial matters —if, for
instance, it had an affection for child labor, long
hours, low wages, and poor conditions generally—
the other States used to be able to protect themselves
against the mean one’s competition through their
Customs tariffs. That means of protection has
now gone; wherefore their own decent conditions
are in constant danger, so long as the whole has no
control over the industrial conditions of the part.
Thus in every State but Tasmania there are
certain prohibited hours of factory work for
females and children ; in Tasmania there is no
limitation at all. In N. S. Wales, and most of the
other States, the factory owner may not employ
females more than 48 hours in a week ; in Tas-
mania he may keep them at it for 10 hours a day.
N. S. Wales and Victoria declare that young
persons under a certain age shall not be employed
at type-setting and certain manufactures ; Tas-
mania will apparently allow even girls of 13 to do
this work, although in N. S. Wales a child of less
than 14 isn’t allowed into any kind of factory at all
unless armed with a special Departmental permit.
Noting these and a hundred other anomalies the
mean manufacturer turns naturally towards the
State which offers the “advantages”; and if the
State is mean enough, it makes up its mind to go on
enjoying those fruits. If only the mean State
suffered it would be the mean State’s own funeral;
but when its manufactures have free entry into
the other States, then the other States become
interested. And obviously the only way they
can express their views on the matter to any effect
is through the Commonwealth Parliament.
♦
The Fall of the Fatted Fellmongers.
A notable triumph of Labor over an exceptionally
stubborn force of Capitalism was lately achieved
in the Vic. Court of Industrial Appeal, when the
hours in the fellmongery business were reduced,
and the scale of wages for skilled labor increased
materially. It took the employees eight years to
arrive at this settlement of their claim for a fair
week’s wage for a fair week’s work; and during
most of that time the employers had practically
been declaring that, whatever Parliament might
do to other trades, its pretensions to bend the
fellmongering bosses to its will were utterly pre-
posterous and inadmissible. The Fellmongers’
Board was “ determined ” —to use the misleading
expression—in August, 1901, nearly a year after
the appointment of the Board had been officially
sanctioned. Meanwhile, there was an election of
representatives of employers and employees. The
Board carried a resolution fixing the usual work-
ing hours of the trade at 4b per week, whereupon
the bosses resigned in a body. Argument was
unavailing. They were asked to give the regu-
lation a trial to see whether it really did spell
ruin; but they haughtily declined to have any-
thing further to do with the matter. Therefore
an order from the Governor-in-Council appointed
five persons to fill the vacant places of the five
indignant and unreasonable employers. The new
Board made a “determination” in August as
aforestated, and the angry Fat men appealed to
the Supreme Court for a rule nisi to quash the
determination. They won the decree on a
technical point; and as the Board’s regulations re
work and wages didn’t please them, they mostly
closed their places for a time. At the end of the
year the Chief Inspector of Factories reported to
the Government that two of the largest fell-
mongeries were still closed. The wormy course
of events during the next six years was duly
recorded in the report of the Chief Inspector of
Factories for 1907 :
Both the Fellmongers’ Board and the determination
were abolished by the Factories and Shops Continuance
Act 1902 ; but power was given to appoint a new Board,
subject to a provision that any determination made by
same should be signed by seven members, exclusive of the
chairman. This Board was duly appointed, but made no
determination. Under the provisions of the Factories
and Shops Act 1903, the condition that the determination
must be signed by at least seven members was repealed,
and the chairman’s deciding vote restored. A deter-
mination was then made, and came into force on May 15,
1904. Under the new determination the usual working
hours are 54 per week. In August, 1906, the Board re-
duced the hours of work to 48. The employers’ repre-
sentatives on the Board appealed to the Court of Indus-
trial Appeals against this determination. The Court
amended the determination by making the hours 54 in-
stead of 48.
So, at the end of 1907, the workers were still
putting in 54 hours a week for an average wage
of 375. 3d., which at any rate was 4s. 9d. higher
than it had been prior to the appointment of
the first Fellmongerv Board. Still the hours
and other conditions were unsatisfactory ; where-
fore the employees appealed in their turn, with
the result that Justice a’Beckett has now re-
duced the hours of work to 48, and increased the
average rate of payment. Unskilled labor con-
tinues to be rated at 365., as before, the only im-
provement in the lot of laborers of tbis class being
their six more hours of rest per week. For the
skilled workers, though, there are solid fruits of
victory. Some of the machine hands get 425.
instead of 365.; and the foremen tanners and
certain men in charge have advanced from 365. to
455. It is not a very attractive trade, this fell-
mongering; but it has lost much of the sweated
appearance which, according to the early outcries
of the bosses, was “ absolutely unavoidable.”
Moreover, conditions that were declared to be
“ruinous” to the employers in 1901 are now
accepted with a growl of submission. The things
they wouldn’t do they are now doing. A measure
of humanitarianism has thus been forced upon
them ; and not by the grace of God, but by Act
of Parliament, they are become better citizens
than they were, and fellmongering in Victoria has
become a trade carried on under such conditions
that one can feel justified in pleading for its en-
couragement.
«
A Squatter and His Cheque-Book.
Victorian land-monopolist Ritchie, of Pens-
hurst (Western District), erupted the other day
and discharged the following :
Like the sword over the head of Damocles, there hangs
over the landowner a Federal land-fine, which to him
would spell something like ruin. Is a bursting-up
land-fine necessary ? The large estates are melting like
snow-wreaths in thaw, and in 20 years the squatter will
be as extinct as the dodo. His name is on the list of
departures, and a future generation will know him not.
This is the way the large estates are “melting”
in Squatter Ritchie’s own district. Penshurst,
his postal town, is smothered on three of its four
sides by a group of the largest estates in Victoria.
His own estate, Blackwood, embraces just on
17,000 acres, and shows no signs of melting.
Right beside it is another Ritchie estate of over
14,000 acres, making a total for the one family of
over 31,000 acres. There is a fine metalled road,
18 miles long, from Penshurst to Dunkeld; and
on the whole of this road there is one house. One
of tbe estates on that road, Devon Park, totals
32,421 acres. It has got the railway town of
Dunkeld choked almost to death. Yet, a few
months ago, when a committee of Dunkeld citizens
asked the proprietors to cut it up for closer settle-
ment (for which it isadmirably suited), they met with
a scornful refusal. Between Penshurst and Mort-
lake, adistanceof36 miles, with a fine metalled road
all the way, practically every acre of the land is
in the hands of big squatters—the squatters who
are alleged to be disappearing like snow-wreaths.
It is the same on the other side, along the road to
Hamilton. So Squatter Ritchie is either depend-
ing upon the ignorance of those to whom he is
appealing, or else he has about twice the assurance
of a Yankee book-canvasser. Whichever it may
be, he is in deadly earnest: —
I appeal to the landowners—big and little, to the
farmer, and to those who abhor class legislation—legisla-
tion by a class for a class, and to blazes with everyone
else —-to subscribe to this anti-Socialistic fund. . . . To
further the good cause, and to give the anti-Socialistic
fund a stare in life, I beg to say that I shall be happy to
subscribe to it the sum of £lOO.
Squatter Ritchie’s appeal to the farmers is speci-
ally fine, seeing that for years past they have had
to say good-bye to their sons and watch them
move off from the State in which they were born,
driven out by the big landlords to seek country on
which to make a living in Maoriland, Queensland,
Westralia or elsewhere.
A Reform that Threatens to Become a
Farce.
Judging by the draft regulations just made by
Victoria’s Indeterminate Sentences Board, and
yet to be approved by Parliament, the prospective
reform is likely to prove a vanity. The regula-
tions propose to put every indeterminate detenu
in the second class, for a start, there to remain for
six months. If he behaves he will be advanced
to the first class, and after a further half-year’s
good behavior he may be liberated. If, however,
he acts the giddy ass, he may be reduced for six
months to the third class, and then there will beat
least six months in each class ahead of him. An
advance in class will mean the acquirement of such
luxuries as additional letters, with butter, cocoa,
fruit, jam, milk, etc. Before receiving hisliberty, he
must (1) have shown good conduct in the first class
for six consecutive months ; (2) have assurance of
immediate employment ; (3) be possessed of
enough cash to maintain biin for 14 days ; and (4)
have reasonable prospects of earning an honest
livelihood. In order that the third requirement
shall not be a ghastly farce, the Board proposes
to pay each prisoner, except those engaged in
special trades, at the rate of 2s. per day, less Is.
per day for food. Just here the Board fails to
grasp the intention of the Indeterminate Sentence
principle. At present the old, small, out-of-date
gaol at Castlemaine is being used for such prisoners
—though it must speedily become overcrowded—
and there are no signs of any properly equipped re-
formatory being built. Consequently, there is little
hope of any of the prisoners fairly earnmg'even
the paltry 2s. per day. The true business of the
Board is to take all indeterminate prisoners, and,
after keeping them fora month or two at scouring
round and cleaning up, to put them to some
useful, payable work. If they know a trade they
should be kept at it, but under more severe con-
ditions than rule outside. They should be credited
with the full wages earned, which should equal
those paid outside. All this should be explained to
them, and then they should be given to under-
stand that the whole cost of their maintenance—
including the keep of themselves, their wives and
families, the warders, etc. —is deducted from
those wages. Finally, the balance should be
handed over to them when the Board thinks they
have fully grasped the fact it is better to work
48 hours for 48s. or 605., and get it, than to toil
longer hours for the same sum, and only get a
third or a quarter of it. Doubtless the Board
means well, and is doing its little best; but
unless it fits its prisoner for honest wor-k, and so
builds up his character that he is likely to prefer
work to crime, it is only wasting time. To'
liberate a man after a term of good behavior in
gaol—such good behavior consisting chiefly of
scrubbing the floors to a fine polish and wearing a.
modest demeanor before the governor—won’t
insure that he will walk the straight and profit-
able path when he gets outside. But until the
Board gets control of a reformatory where men
can be put to useful, self-respecting toil, it has
little hope of doing any real good. And there is
no sign of that reformatory.
There were a lot of side issues about that case in
which ex-solicitor R. D. Meagher— he of the
famous Dean case—applied to N.S.W. Full Court
for reinstatement as a Gentleman One, and the
following, raised by Acting-Chief-Justice Simpson,
was among them :
I said yesterday, speaking about the attack made upon
the late Mr. Justice Windeyer, that I did not entertain
any doubt that that attack indirectly accelerated the
death of Mr. Justice Windeyer. I should like to add
this : I should be very sorry indeed to put the whole
blame upon Mr. Meagher. I have said, and say now,
that the attack made by Mr. Meaoher upon Mr. Justice
Windeyer, and the attack made upon Mr. Justice
Windeyer by other persons over whom this Court has no
control, in my' opinion accelerated his death. I don’t
want the whole blame to rest upon Mr. Meaoher. Other
people attacked him, over whom this Court has no’
control, unfortunately'.
Possibly that sort of thing is strictly according to
the etiquette of the Bench; but, after all, is it worth
while, especially as Mr. Simpson is not a medical,
authority? The chief cause of Justice Win-
DEYEr’s death is too well known to make it worthi
while raising new theories at this late hour. And.
he was a man who paid little attention to public-
comments —he could never have lived out his
career otherwise. For 20 years or so he was;
notorious on the N.S.W. Bench as an angry dis-
penser of the law, who held a brief for the;
prosecution in both hands. He was apparently-
guided in criminal matters by two simple rules: (1))
If a woman gave evidence against a man ini
a certain class of cases, no matter how improbable;
the evidence or how dubious the woman, she was;
to be implicitly believed ; (2) it was always best
to assume the prisoner’s guilt on general prin-
ciples. The announcement that Justice Win-
deyer “ summed up strongly against the accused ”
could safely be kept standing in type when the
famous old man was toiling in the Criminal Court.
He was superstitious withal, and put absurd re-
liance on the advice of “mediums” of the Mrs.
Mellon type; and a man with a profound
reliance on spooks is seldom the best of Judges—
he is too liable to learn that the accused is guilty,
more from the spook than the evidence. In the
Dean case Justice Windeyer was right in assum-
ing the prisoner’s guilt, but when one regularly
assumes that the prisoner is guilty he can’t be
always wrong. All the same, the conviction of
Dean for murder was a disgrace. The slovenly case
for the prosecution failed to show where Dean
got the poison, or that he really owned any
poison, or that he had any motive for giving his
wife poison. On the slender evidence before the
Court it is difficult to imagine that any Judge save-
Windeyer would have looked for a conviction ;;
but as usual his Honor summed up against the;
prisoner, and did it so persuasively that a con-
viction followed. The evidence was so poor that,
on the same testimony, Dean afterwards got an
unconditional pardon. Of course, the evidence
which cropped up later showed that Justice
Windeyer was right for once; but it is difficult to
enthuse over the Judge who, by the simple pro-
cess of constantly summing up against the
prisoner, happens, now and then, to sum up
against the right prisoner.
+
Probably Federal Laborites now see that it would
have been better for their party and their plat-
form had they dashed into the heart of their pro-
gramme as soon as ever they reached power. Had
their programme been defeated, the country
would at least have known what it was, and Anti-
Sosh would have had a bad time trying to explain
away some of the lies told about it. Instead, as
soon as the chance of working came to them, they
hung work up and went on a long spell of casual
talking, and didn’t even talk too well—on the
Federal Capital question, for instance. When
they came back and proposed to get to work the
opportunity to work had passed by. Opportunity-
does not grow hair on the back of its head, so thait
it’s not an easy matter to grasp the animal when
it has passed.
♦
The Adelaide Conference of inter-State delegates
to discuss the management of Children’s Courts
and such things came to some remarkably sane
conclusions —even though many of the delegates
were women, and on these matters women are apt
to be either hysterical or flinty. “ There are no
illegitimate children,” the delegates declared;
“ those wrongly so-called are the legitimate
children of illegitimate parents.” It is something
to have learned that much ; and if the truth is
hammered into practice, Australia will be a much
more cheerful place for many a desirable but now
frowned-upon little citizen. The question of
dealing with a deserting husband or father
troubled the delegates, a 3 it has troubled every-
body else ; but they were unanimous that it was
pure folly to drag the man back from a distant
part of the Commonwealth, where he was prob-
ably at work, and gaol him. “A large proportion
of deserted wives are slatternly or shrewish, or
otherwise impossible,” it was admitted —and that
was a solemn truth, too. A better plan, they
therefore concluded, was to let the man stay
where he was and to legislate so that a mainte-
nance order made, say, in Hobart should be en-
forcable by the police in, say, Brisbane or Perth.
But before it can be enforced effectively it is neces-
sary that the “hard labor” shall be made profitable;
and when that reform has been effected, then, of
course, the deserted family will be entitled to
draw their share of the profit. If the man will
maintain them “outside,” well and good; but if
he will not, then he must be passed inside, to
maintain them there.
The pro-Dreadnought sheets make immense play
with the destitute condition of the British tax-
payer. One of them limned him last week as a
jackass loaded with sacks of financial obligations.
His hard-up state, the “direposition” he is in,
his crying need of help from the “ lion’s whelps ”
A Study in Black and White.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whilst Labor member Jones or Brown
Is talking loud of Labor’s needs,
Old Smith regards him with a frown,
And mocks the Cause for which he pleads;
Their “ platforms ” are so wide apart—
Erected in opposing zones—
That Smith, with hand upon his heart,
Must d——n the creed of Brown or Jones.
But if it chance that B. or J.
Is summoned from his Labor seat—
Imperatively called away
His after-death account to meet—
The late lamented then appears
A man of mighty worth and pith,
And admiration’s gentle tears
Suffuse the voice of Tory Smith.
Or, if the picture be reverst,
And Smith is called to wear a crown,
His memory is not accurst
By Labor member Jones or Brown ;
The House unites to praise the name
Of Smith, whose public life was spent
In noble playing of “ the game ”
The game of Party Government.
So Jones, or Brown, or Smith, ’twould seem,
Must be maligned his livelong days,
And patiently remain a theme
For Party blame as well as praise,
His acts from the opposing side
Are viewed in a deceptive light ;
He passed for Black until he died,
And lay revealed as spotless White.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Public Notice.
The people of Queensland, and the parts adja-
cent thereto, are warned that a gentleman whose
cards bear the legend
MR. CECIL ROWE
Representing
“ The Bulletin .” (2000 miles in a sulky.)
is a fraud. No person of that name represents this
paper. Further, no representative of this paper
asks for credit when on the paper’s business ; and
the public is hereby notified, so that it may act
accordingly.
The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Part Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
W FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
We are Agents for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
Enquire for the CINEPHONE, for Musical Pictures.
HARRINGTONS LTD., fZ
Sydney!
179 Polling St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
The Australian XI. seem to have had a bit
the worst of the weather luck so far. And bad
luck may prove too much for the best skill even
when geared to its highest power by just the
right turn of D.O.L. Whisky. Just the same,
the Wise He who wants to be among the top
scorers never omits a flicker from the amber
glance of D.C.L., the scholarly brand.*
overseas are Dreadnausea’s main arguments. Yet
a few Sundays ago Sydney Sunday Times—as
rabid a journalistic Dreadnoughter as you may
find—printed this :
The following table, estimating the cost of sport in
the United Kingdom, is interesting :
Spent
„ , . Invested. Annually.
Foxhunting £15,607,000 .. £8,638,000
Shooting 4,067,000 .. 8,128,000
JMshing 550,000 .. 589,000
“ ac ! n ? 8,320,000 .. 10,593,000
Yachting 5,600,000 .. 3,032,000
Coursing 520,000 .. 317,400
Coaching 290,250 .. 237,795
7,°!° 87,000 .. 110,100
" olf . 525,000 .. 725,550
’ , •• •• •• 284,000 .. 574,300
football and cricket.. .. 10,763,000 .. 11,712,000
There are some 750 golf links in Great Britain.
We may conclude that some £46,613,250 is invested
perriiMcntl)', and £44,775,545 is spent annually, on sport.
There is, in short, an investment in sport of about
2os. for each man, woman, and child in the United King,
dom, and a slightly smaller sum spent each year for
sport.
Taking the first item alone, it seems that if Bull
would abandon for only five years the evil practice
of getting on a large horse and soolingan immense
quantity of superfluous dog on to a red beast that
steals fowls, the money saved would pay for fully
21 Dreadnoughts.
♦
Westkalia, with a population of 270,000, inclusive
of aborigines, Chows and other non-electors, has
80 paid members of Parliament, with Speaker
President of Council, usher of the Black Rod,
Sergeant-at-Arms, mace-bearer and the rest of the
tomfrillery. Also it has a State Governor with
two residences, and the usual crowd of gorgeous
aides, secretaries and hangers-on. These things,
with a State printing office, cost something like
£loo,ooo—all for the sake of “dog,” whilst there
is not a copper in the Treasury and last week’s
washing is not paid for. Instead of putting
on an old suit and wearing mended boots, the
Newton J. Mooke Government goes round the
country in motor-cars, and at every champagne
guzzle moans that Federation is ruining the
State, and the people in the Eastern States are
thieves and murderers. Timothy Francis Quin-
lan, Speaker of the Leg. Assembly, and the
owner of many pubs and brewery shares, has just
told a crowd of cookies that “if he had his way
lie would order every man who voted for Federa-
tion to be flogged so many lashes a day until he
was dead, and he would give John Forrest the
worst.” Yet the valiant Timothy Francis draws
£6OO a year as Speaker of an Assembly that
scarcely ever sits for more than four months in the
year, and then rarely does much else besides
agreeing to the issue of another bunch of I O IPs.
Thus Colonel Forster, Director of Military
Science at Sydney University :
Where the British Intelligence Department was wanting
in the Boer war was not that it did not know the
strength of the Boers. It is a fact which very few
people know that the Intelligence Department brought
out a book four months before the war containing full
details of the guns and rifles the Boers had, and the
men who could be put under arms. I have read that
book. What the Intelligence Department did not pro-
perly gauge in the Boers was the spirit with which
they would resist any encroachment on their indeoend-
ence.
Tliere^ sLou 1 d be a lesson in this somewhere for
the “Fused” Government, which proposes to hang
up the Australian Universal Military Service
scneme until it can get Kitchener or someone
else from the other end of the world to come along
a » d “ adv ’ s f-” For if British Intelligence
officer didnt know what the Boer could do
and on account of that profound ignorance made
such screamingly absurd recommendations, what
is likely to be the use of his advice as to what is
necessary in Australia—a country that he can
know no more about than he knew about the Boer
territory ?
■ ♦
A big Jap paper—the Tokyo Asahi—printed this
cheerful item the other day :
It is a serious matter that in denseness of population
Japan already ranks as the second or third among nations,
and that, with American doors closed against the race
there is little hope of an exodus in that direction. . ’
South America is a country that should be an inviting-
field. A still more hopeful field is Australia, with its pro-
verbial natural treasure to be exploited. These South Sea
islands are at present in the monopolistic possession of
European Powers, but the very climatic conditions are
against large influx of white settlers. Japanese have given
a proof of their capability in the pearl fishery in Thursday
Island. Thus for a century or two Japan need feel no
anxiety over its prolific productivity.
With a contemptuous eye on the Commonwealth’s
navy (i.e., the “Protector”) and army (which
is to say, its infrequent volunteer warrior), the
Asiatic writer brushes aside the idea that the
resident Australian may have other views worth
worrying over. In view of remarks of the kind
which the Asahi prints, by the wav, what is the
value of the frequent assertion that Japan is quite
enough, to satisfy the Japanese, and that they
wouldn t think of turning their eye in any other
direction ?
+.
One doesn’t hear much about the land agent
nowadays in Sydney; but in country towns where
the State is doing any land business, he fills up as
much space with his advts. in the district paper
as the local moleskin merchant does. Heaven
forbid that The Bulletin should cut into the
country papers’ revenue by so much as the price
of one pumpkin; but the tremendous whoop of
these land agents, all offering to take the hun°-ry
farm-hunter by the hand and lead him into fair
fields and good pastures, suggests that the State
land law is still in a complicated mess, or that the
State or Crown land agents don’t make things as
plain for the hungry hunters as they might. Besides
the agent who does advertise, there are the gents,
one who don’t advertise, or at least who have to
scheme to get their advertising without paying
for it; and both lots of middlemen who ought to
be quite unnecessary, appear to be in an infinitely
more flourishing way than their average client.
Possibly the hungry hunters go to these ought-to-
,e^ ll i m iddlemen out of sheer cussedness,
and because they don’t know how to get rid of
their money fast enough ; but it doesn’t seem a
likely explanation. It would be worth the Lands
Minister’s while to inquire carefully why they
do go to the agents—and especially whether
his own officers, the Crown land agents and the
Land Boards, encourage it. There are exceptions,
no doubt; but some Land Boards do dearly love
to impress the gaping crowd with the importance
of their proceedings; and because Courts of
Quarter Sessions and such like have gents, one
dancing before them, they like to see gents, one
and others dancing before themselves also. Hence
the prevailing impression in the Backblocks, and
the blocks that are only moderately back, that a
man has a better chance if he scrapes up enough
to get somebody to appear for him. It is an im-
pression that ought to be rooted out, and the
Minister ought to put the grubbing contract in
hand at once. For in 99 cases out of 100 these
hungry land-hunters have no money to waste ; in
fact, the majority will have a hard struggle to pull
through the first few years and get a fair start,
even if they waste nothing.
♦
In asking for redress for their grievances, Mel-
bourne’s licensed cabbies lately told Premier
Murray things that make one wonder what on
earth State governments are for. It was stated
that while the common or street-rank cabby has
to get a license and is prosecuted if he carries one
more than the legal number of passengers, electric
and cable trams, taxi-cabs, motors and “liverv-
stable cabs” may carry as many persons as they
can cram in. The trams and motors only incon-
venience the passengers—there is no horse to over-
load—but the “livery-stable cabs” are an abomi-
nation and an injustice that ought to be suppressed.
Not only do they ply quite uncontrolled, but
they are mostly driven by lads who sleep in
mangers and any old places, with telephones
hung beside their ears, so that they can
answer a call at any hour of the night.
Motormen are also kept asleep on the premises,
where the telephone can break in on their
troubled dreams. The highest wage these cab-
driving youths get is 17s. fid. a week and keep;
which fearful sum, however, means riotous living
compared with the 30s. per week for 78 hours
which the drivers on the awful Coburg horse
trams revel in. Murray professed surprise at
these shameful revelations, and asked what the
Hackney Carriage Committee of the City Council
was doing. He was told that that committee
either hadn’t the power to improve matters, or
wouldn’t use it. The cabbies asked for a Wages
Board, and were informed by the fat and weary
Murray that he would talk the matter over with
the Hackney Carriage Committee. Which gave
the drivers about as much satisfaction as a hungry
horse would get out of its owner’s promise that he
would have a yarn with a produce merchant.
•
Melbourne City Council, after practically decid-
ing to thrust the itinerant vendors of cheap fruit
beyond the sphere of shop-keeping influence, is
now confronted with an embarrassing demand from
the men who grow the fruit that stocks the
barrows. A deputation of orchardists from the
country districts around Melbourne has inter-
viewed a committee of the Council for the pur-
pose of urging that “the Council should estab-
lish some means to facilitate the proper distribu-
tion of cheap fruit in the metropolitan area.” The
question was asked : “If the hawking of cheap
fruit is prohibited (in the interests of expensive
shopkeepers), will the Council sanction the placing
of a certain number of permanent stands for the
sale of fruit within the prohibited area?”
The Council committee, of course, promised
to “consider” the matter, the object of all such
consideration being to hide the question until it
moulders away from public memory. If Mel-
bourne City Councillors are left to the exercise of
their own will (which is mainly the will of their
shopkeeping constituents), the fruit-growers are
bound to be thrown over. The fruit-growers’ aim
is to increase largely the consumption of fruit, not
by cheapening their price, for that is always low,
but by cheapening the price paid by consumers.
Presumably they seek the control of the permanent
stands if they can get them established, thereby
bringing the buyer into touch with the producer.
Still, whoever controls them, the public wants the
benefit of those stands, because the shopkeepers
will do nothing to increase the consumption of
fruit, though they will do everything to keep up
its price.
“Locust ” writes :
Some years ago, when the great American gambler
Tarbeau was taking the Australian clever ones (including
the late Joe Thompson) down, he met a temporary check
in his triumphal career by hitting up against a young
Queenslander named Farrell. They fought a great’series
of card battles—P. J. H. Farrell was then a mere youth—
butat the Joseph Banks, Botany, Tarbeau, after a two days
and nights’ combat, at last got the Australian “down and
out” at poker. Farrell (then a commission agent) was
broke and left Sydney. That was 22 years ago. Last
week I heard of his subsequent career. Got to Chicago,
via, South America, Africa and Asia, and there joined
the U.S.A. Cavalry; twice wounded in the Sioux
Indian war of 1890, in the Dakotas (the last big
fight with the American Indians); wounded in the
Apache Indian campaign in Arizona (1891); studied four
years in the medical department, University of Louis-
ville, Kentucky ; back in the army and commanded the
first detatchment of American soldiers that landed in the
Philippine Islands ; was field officer against the Boxers in
China; is now “ Commander-in-Chief, Headquarters
Army of the Philippines,” and commanded the veteran
guard of honor at the inauguration of President Taft in
Washington, March 4. Can anyone trot out a more adven-
turous career for an Australian aged 46 ? If so, I should
like to hear of it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Rescue.”
Criterion “ The Fatal Wedding.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The King of Cadonia.”
Theatre Royal “ The Hypocrites.”
King’s “The Bank of England.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athkn/Eum! The Scarlet Troubadours.
Town Hall, (and Subs.) Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Melba sang to a huge Town Hall audience
on Saturday night, and to another on the previous
Tuesday. It goes without saying that her glori-
ous voice is still glorious. But to this writer it
appears that the local ravings in regard to it are
being overdone. One daily paper remarked a
day or so ago on the “astounding spontaneity
and unstrained ease ” of the voice ; also on its
“girlish quality,” and on its “heart-breaking
effect.” Another noted the voice’s “curious
spirituality ” and holding power—so marvellous
that while its owner sang “only scintillating
jewels, rising and falling, told of life in that
house”- —and so forth. One critic opined that
“ the famous eamtatrice” is now singing “ with a
matchless beauty that it would be difficult
to imagine she had exceeded at any for-
mer time in her illustrious career.” Which
is quite absurd. The voice has lost an in-
definable something of sympathy and fresh-
ness. The old wondrous, even purity of attack
is gone. The high notes are not what they
were even as lately as six years back. It was
always a cold voice, devoid of the joyous note
which, for lack of a better word, we call “girl-
ish,” yet marvellously and artistically pro-
duced ; and it is that now. In the Mad
Scene from “Hamlet,” in the Willow Song,
in the Donizetti Mad Scene the execution
was astounding. But the Melba execution always
is. As to the impression produced on the
audience, it cannot be too firmly insisted that a
fashionable Town Hall audience—the sort that is
loaded with “scintillatingjewels”—doesnotgrow
“rapt” over the less florid samples of Verdi’s
art. The majority of those who sport the family
gems at a Melba concert are there as much to see
their friends’ scintillations and to have their own
seen as to hear fine singing. The sigh of delighted
recognition, that is significant of so much, was
accorded at both concerts, not to the dreary open-
ing bars of the Desdemona scene, but to the first
notes of the “Se Saran Rose” waltz song, of
“Down in the Forest,” and, above all, of Tosti’s
“ Good-Bye.”
Frederick Ranalow is a baritone with a
sonorous, not to say robustious, organ. He sang
“I Hear You Calling Me” (Marshall) and
d’Hardelot’s “Because” excellently. Miss Una
Bourne played some Chopin in taking fashion,
and she collaborated successfully with Slapoffski’s
fine orchestra in the Liszt “Hungarian Fantasie.”
Melba appears at a matinee concert on the day
after this paper goes to press, and then proceeds
on a tour of the N.S.W. Western District.
** * *
Bland Holt came back last week to Sydney
Theatre Royal, and to a public that loves him
well, with “The Great Rescue.” It is an in-
teresting play, inasmuch as, though indifferently'
written and constructed, it is possible here to get,
in spots, the illusion that there are genuine people
in front of one—the sort of cheerful, simple souls
who dwell in the up-country parts of Australia.
There are two of the spectacular thrills which are
inseparable from Blandolt productions, and
both are well managed. One represents the
salvaging of Bland from a flooded mine
by a stage prototype of Diver Hughes. The
other shows Bland exceeding the speed limit
in a motor in a gallant effort to outpace the
Charters Towers express. The most unconvincing
feature of “ The Great Rescue” is its’scoundrel-
ism. Harden Hooker is as asinine a villain as the
writer has encountered. Under the spell of a gust
of annoyance, he flings a charge of dynamite down
a mine which contains the entire strength of the
company. As he has sold out his shares in this
mine about three minutes previously, and is,
furthermore, the only human above ground at the
time of the explosion, the finger of suspicion
would point at him with fatal effect were he not
wanted for the subsequent three acts. Anything
more futile than Hooker’s attempt in Act IV. to
saddle on the blameless Bland the charge of
having served 10 years in Pentridge Gaol
it were hard to conceive. Of course, Corrigan,
the comic Irishman, was a warder in Pentridge in
his youth, and is reminded by Hooker’s wild and
senseless accusation that it was he (Hooker) who
did the ten years. Hooker is a creature of mad
impulse who could never, in any reasonably in-
telligent community, hope to make his cigarette
money by wrong-doing. Others who are unlikely
when unrighteous are Alf Hooker and the
kanaka, Probasco. The fact is, the aroma of
domesticity and warm homely affection that per-
meates this play renders ruffianism out of place.
The virtuous ones are so numerous, and so exube-
rantly merry and kindly and well-disposed, that
there is no shadow of an excuse for venom against
them. That is why Harden and Alf and their
satellites seem such crudely absurd anomalies.
They are as grotesquely out of place as Pirate
Hook and his desperadoes were among the inno-
cent little friends of Peter Pan.
» * » *
The plot circles round the efforts of the
various parties to marry one another. Bill Bed-
ford, miner, digger, and man of mark, fancies
Mrs. Malley, a widow of unimpeachable character,
which regard she heartily reciprocates. With
an honorable affection painfully unusual in stage
men of rank, Lord Wilfred Winston loves Alice
Bedford, daughter of Bill. Alice approves of
Wilfred, but spurns with loathing the importu-
nate attention of Alf Hooker, much to the latter’s
annoyance, and that of the kanaka aforesaid, who
appears to be his only friend. Harry Bedford
adores Vie Nmniford, and she is prepared
to go to church, registry office, or the
ends of the earth with him at a mo-
ment’s notice. In the last act everyone
with any spark of honesty in his composition
marries, or prepares to marry, some female of
similar moral calibre. Hooker, who has essayed
to prevent the Winston-Bedford fusion, is
arrested. All ends joyously.
* * * *
Bland Holt is his own pleasing self as
Bill Bedford. Arthur Styan grapples valiantly
with the dreadful Hooker, and makes him an
absorbing, if not over-plausible, character. Alf
Hooker (pace his unusual habit of resort-
ing to the arbitrament of the levelled shot-
gun) is, in the hands of Leslie Woods, a fair pre-
sentment of a certain unlicked specimen of back-
blocks youth. Charles Brown, Alf Harford, and
Carleton Stuart fool divertingly in broad comedy
r6les. Harry Bedford (Max Maxwell) and Lord
Wilfred Winston (Godfrey Cass) are heroes. It
is impossible to say more, since the melodramatic
hero remains—no matter what his rank or nation-
ality—rigidly true to type. Miss Harrie Ireland
is charming as Mrs. Malley, the ingenue parts
are nicely played, and Miss Bessie Major does
satisfactorily as Lady Ninniford. The staging
and mounting are beyond cavil.
** * *
“The Fatal Wedding” was revived at
Sydney Criterion on last Saturday night. There
is no other play quite like “ The Fatal Wedding.”
It is a reduction to absurdity, in melodramatic
form, of all stage sentimentality. By comparison
with it “East Lynne” is cynically materialistic,
and a triumph of psychological insight. Cora
Williams (Adventuress) and her disreputable
acquaintance, Robert (Man About Town), exist
solely and patently for the purpose of extracting
the sniffle of misery from the front of the
house. Whether they are engaged divorcing
Howard Wilson from his wife, or jeering
brutally at the latter in her honorable
penury, or essaying to poison her, or causing
her helpful little daughter to be dragged
to prison for a theft of which she is innocent, or
tearing the distracted mother from the bedside of
her expiring baby boy, they carry out their duty
with masterly callousness. When Cora and
Robert are not causing sobs to run riot through
the audience, Bridget (a lady cook), Toto (a French
butler), and other golden-hearted domestics are
producing sobs by their infinitely touching kind-
nesses. Howard Wilson (wealthy Club man)
drifts purposely amid this depressing environ-
ment, showing himself to be as fat-headed, undis-
cerning a simpleton as ever playwright drew. The
shooting of Cora in the last act cheers things up
considerably. There is a general feeling that,
lacking the insults of Cora, the Wilsons and their
dependents may recover their spirits somewhat.
* w * *
Miss Maggie Moore provides a Bridget
after the J. L. Sheridan model. Voluble and
racy of speech, loud of voice and flamboyant of
dress, she is the sort of domestic one would be
charmed to see at work in the home of an enemy.
Toto (John F. Ford) and Schwartz (Sydney
Everett) are servitors who, as such, would never
get a reference from any right-thinking house-
holder, though as wildly-clownish comedians
they possess points of merit. H. R. Roberts plays
Wilson. It is not a part that an intelligent man
can take seriously, which fact Roberts appears to
appreciate to the full. Miss Maisie Posner’s
Jessie is a clever piece of work ; a more natural
and taking little stage girl the writer has not seen
for a long while. The Tin Can Band remains in
full strength and vigor, both as to its muscles and
its vocal cords.
** * *
“ Jack and J ill are still at Her Majesty’s,
in good health and spirits, and will remain there
for another 10 nights.
* * *
Cinquevalli will be at home at Sydney
Tivoli only until June 16, after which date his
honored name will fade from the bill, and the soft
thud of the cannon-ball falling on his distin-
guished back will be heard no more. G. W.
Hunter, the singer of old familiar songs, and
illusionist Mdlle. Desiree are also playing a short
farewell season, so the air is filled with prepara-
tions for departure. The performers who have
not got their hats on and their dress baskets
packed include Florence and Lillian, the drawing-
room girl musicians; Dale and O’Malley, patter
comedians; Cissie Curlette, the English soubrette;
Graham and Dent; and Jay Ryan.
»* * *
The presentation of the Pathe Freres films
of high-class dramas, acted by the best French
artists, has made a boom for West’s Pictures at
Sydney Palace. They are absolutely the best
films yet produced in Australia, and the splendid
interpretations, the magnificent studies in facial
expression, make them objects of beauty and
interest to everyone. The latent is “The Grand-
father,” which illustrates an episode .of the
Franco-German war of 1870. The boy of 14,
or thereabouts, filled with the desire to do some-
thing for his beloved France, steals out in the
night, and proceeeds to cut the telegraph wire.
The Prussian patrol catches him redhanded and
hangs him to the post. Later on, having decided
that there is no more hanging to be done that
night, they call at the home the boy has just left,
and demand food and liquor from the boy’s grand-
father. He serves them unwillingly enough, but
never suspects his grandson’s absence till one of
the soldiers strikes him across the face with the
boy’s scarf. Then he makes a hurried dive for the
child’s room. The bed is empty. Out into the
night he goes and finds the body hanging to the
post. Bearing it home, he leaves it in the bedroom,
and offers the soldiers more wine, which he care-
fully poisons. Then follow the death agonies of
the soldiers ; he seizes them as they writhe, and
forces them to kneel before the dead body of the
child they have murdered. It’s a grim, savage
scene ; but it truthfully illustrates what happens
in a country that is invaded even by an army of
alleged Christians. In this sense it should serve
as a solemn warning of what scenes are likely in
Australia when that Yellow Horde sweeps over
the empty continent. However, the programme
generally is not pitched in such a tragic key, and
there is enough and to spare of light and airy
variety business.
*** * ,
This being a holiday season, when all loyal
citizens are presumed to be rejoicing, Mr.
Spencer’s programme at Sydney Lyceum is mainly
frivolous. Harry Lauder’s ghost is more mirthful
than ever, and the representation of the things
that happen when the Devil waves his wand is
distinctly good. “A Mother’s Love ”is not the
maudlin affair the name would suggest, buta deeply
interesting exposition of the inner life of animals
with their young. The study of animals and birds


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Australia To-day, the Commercial Travellers’
annual, is offering- a prize of 20 guineas to Australian
artists tor the best cover design for its 1910 issue,*
appears to be a specialty of Mr. Spencer, and most
of the films dealing with these subjects were
taken by himself. Some day, it is to be hoped,
he will hie him out to National Park and get
loose among the kangaroos and ’possums which,
owing to the protection they receive, there, are
almost tame, and have no objection to being
photographed so long as it is done without undue
ostentation. Those who were kept away from
the Kangaroo-All Black match at Sydney Agri-
cultural Ground, on Saturday, can still see it.
The Theatrescope was at the match, and the man
who sits in the Lyceum and sees the ball blown
back by a noiseless wind has not to endure the
roaring of the barrackers. It is really the best
way to watch football.
* * *
Melbourne Royal is about three sizes too
large for “ The Hypocrites ; ” therefore the pro-
duction of H. A. Jones’s wordy sermon at the
C.M.G. (Clarke, Mevnell and Gunn) theatre last
Saturday revealed all its weaknesses. “The
Hypocrites ” is rather a melodrama than a comedy
of morals. The fabric of dialogue and action is
but shoddy—of the better kind, certainly, but
shoddy all the same. The pattern, or figures,
worked into it are crudely colored. Nevertheless,
in its original state, as it left the mill of Jones, it
was a close! y-woven fabric, bright on thesurf ace and
attractive in design. At the Royal it is distended
to fit the house. Every flaw in the manufacture
becomes apparent; the sheen is lost in the stretch-
ing ; the figures look more patchy and garish than
they looked at the Criterion, in Sydney. One criti-
cises the story, the characters, and the perform-
ance through a magnifying glass, as it were. The
defects obtrude themselves, and the chain of cir-
cumstances is seen to have “Melodrama ” stamped
on every link.
it it *
There’s an unnaturally discourteous Eng-
lish squire, or “lord of the manor,” with a snob-
bish wife, and a discreet man of business. The
squire’s son is engaged to marry a pious,
guileless young heiress, whose titled papa,
although an autocrat as regards her matrimonial
choice, has seemingly no say in the disposal
of her fortune. She directs the marriage settle-
ments, but papa has to be satisfied about the
moral character of her fianci. The young man’s
moral character was born under an unlucky star,
for his first and only little indiscretion gets him
into trouble. The girl he has betrayed walks
into the manor house (with no intention of making
a fuss), and there her secret becomes known to
her guilty lover and his adoring mamma. Pre-
sently the squire, mamma, the young man, the
agent for the estate, the contemptible vicar of the
parish, and other adherents of the manor house,
are jointly interested in suppressing this untimely
scandal in order that the heiress may not back
out of her marriage contract. But the curate
of the parish is a lion in the path of
the match-makers. The Rev. Edgar Lmnell is
a stickler for Truth. He gets to know that the
sweet, mysterious young woman with the pathetic,
hunted look in her eyes was the victim of young
Wilmore. And he demands that the bride-elect
shall be told of this prior attachment and warned
of the baby which threatens to result. He’s a
very uncomfortable curate, and the bride-elect has
caught his complaint. Notwithstanding her
romantic passion for her intended, she is always
wondering whether he is sufficiently good and
pure to be her husband. She consults his mother
on the subject, and intends to consult the curate
also. Amorous brides-elect don’t harbor such
misgivings in real life, neither does a trucu-
lently virtuous curate take a billet where he
is dominated by a contemptible vicar and
an abusive squire; but “The Hypocrites”
is melodrama, and anything might happen in it.
Rev. Edgar Linnell persists in using bis know-
ledge of the family secret to upset the family
plans, if possible. He produces a series of “situa-
tions” in which various people have to choose be-
tween their duty to God and their own personal
inclinations. He himself is tempted to sacrifice
the truth to his worldly interests, but he answers
“ not for a bishopric”—which is very gratifying
to the gallery. His meek colorless wife is dragged
into a “ situation,” and she likewise rises superior
to temptation. Then the respectable people
(barring the bride-elect, who knows nothing as
yet) conspire to crush the interloping curate.
They nobble the girl who was betrayed, and she
throws her champion over. A fraudulent family
inquiry (suggestive of the third act of “The
Liars ”) is conducted in the presence of the father
of the bride-elect, and the curate’s allegations arede-
clared to be false. But at this crisis the tearful eyes
of the betrayed one are too much for the be-
trayer. He doesn’t love the Truth, but he loves
the girl, and for her sake he bursts up the con-
spiracy. He places his conscience in the hands of
the triumphant curate, and decides to marry the
girl. The boy having blasted the family pride,
his mother also transfers her conscience to Rev.
Edgar Linnell’s keeping. All the other people
have disappeared from view, and it is to be feared
that the moral lesson has done them no good.
* * * *
The most important character in the piece,
and the most difficult one to play, is that of Mrs.
Wilmore, the worldly mother who stakes all her
hopes in life on the chance of her son marrying
an heiress. Miss Emily Fitzroy is utterly unequal
to the character. The writer remembers her as a
poor actress when she played pretty-girl parts in
George Rignold’s company long years ago, and
her style to-day is almost as hard and mechanical
as ever it was. Harcourt Beatty poses too heroi-
cally as the uncompromising curate, but is gener-
ally effective ; likewise Gaston Mervale as the
estate agent. Tom Cannam and James Lindsay
act with inartistic exaggeration, whereas the slight
exaggerations of Miss Mortyne (as Mrs. Blavney)
are thoroughly artistic, and Deverell’s tiny sketch
of Dr. Blayney is convincing. Frank Randell, as
the penitent betrayer, looks the young part well
enough, and puts some heart into his performance
occasionally. The one real touch of nature is sup-
plied by Miss Gladys Harvey, the betrayed one.
She fills the part very prettily, and, except' that
her utterances are a trifle too jerky, she speaks the
lines admirably. But though she appeals for
sympathy all the time, there is that in the play, or
the unsatisfactory rendering of it, which forbids
one to take it quite seriously. More than once on
Saturday night the gallery laughed when there
should have been only a burst of intense silence.
** * *
The best to be said of the latest revival of
“ The Silver King ” at Her Majesty’s is that the
charm of novelty obscures the cold pale light of
comparison, even as a fleecy cloud gets in
front of * the moon. There are 29 names
on the bill, and, with the exception of Plimmer,
as the Spider—and a right good Spider, too—all
the names look new to their parts. No previous
revival has been so different from the others as this
is. Kolker, in the name part, is startlingly dis-
tinctive, and oddly interesting. The drama seems
to have lost many of its old points, and acquired
some fresh ones ; but, seeing that it will drop out
of the bill after Friday night, no further comment
on the proceedings is called for. Kolkerand Miss
Humphrey are to breathe their last to a Mel-
bourne audience in their present characters of
Wilfred and Nellie Denver. They are going
away. The other 27 members of the company are
also going away, and a season of musical comedy
is about to begin.
** # *
On Saturday (12th), “The King of
Cadonia ” will establish his court at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne), and shake his sceptre at
Australia for the first time. Which is assuming
that he has a court and a sceptre to his name.
Bert Gilbert and four newly imported comedians
—two of whom are of the harder sex—will appear
in “ The King of Cadonia,” and a full chorus and
augmented orchestra will be under the direction
of Fritz Hart, R.A.M.
* *• * *
“ The Bank of England,” the latest thing
at Melbourne King’s, is some more about Sher-
lock Holmes. The amateur champion detective
inserts himself very early into the proceedings,
seemingly by special request of a Yankee widow.
The widow, who is slow and stoutish, briefs him
to explore the career of certain spurious bank
notes, but he starts elucidating a stack of
crimes ranging from sexual fragility to the
dullest homicide. Holmes is a thriller of
exceptional displacement. He attains a gro-
tesquer personality than his forerunners, ad-
ding pale canary gloves to a cocaine habit.
He soon appals the felons of the show, who com-
prise Gordon Isaacs, a tremulous Hebrew, and
Stephen Hartley, a monster with an eyeglass.
Stephen is the superior miscreant. He almost
convicts a palpably Baptist youth of circulating
illegitimate paper cash. He slays the youth’s
presumptive parent, and thrusts the body into a
bullion \ box. Then he endeavors to rob the
Bank of England, and, as a side line, decoys
into his toils a paralytic souvenir of the
poor old British aristocracy. This curio, Lord
Barraclough, has tottery knees and a lovely
daughter, at whom Stephen leers invitingly. But
the lady will have none of him. Moreover, his
wife turns up and damages his plans. Finally,
however, Stephen abducts the coveted damsel,
and is in the centre of some tropical suggestions
when Holmes cruises into the storm, and every-
thing ends happily.
Roy Redgrave plays Sherlock Holmes with
plenty of Andersonian force and cleverness. The
proper Holmes is calm, mysterious, vague. Red-
grave’s Holmes is neither very mysterious nor
very vague, and has the imperturbability of a
blizzard. Laurence Dunbar, the wicked Stephen,
is mediocre enough. Ned Duggan is a heavy
Hebrew; whilst Albert Bailey, as a racing
man, is but a zephyr of his usual self.
As for the ladies, Miss Kate Gair makes an ami-
able and restful lord’s daughter, and Miss Kath-
leen Lorrimer talks in a fruity monotone. Miss
Fitzmaurice Gill, however, is the treasure of the
piece. As a ’Murkan widow, she drawls out a
frantic twang with a laborious nonchalance, and
the amphitheatre loves her much.
THE SMILE
THAT DISMAYS
THE VILLAIN.
Bland Holt in “ The
Great Rescue," Sydney Royal.
At the Athenseufti Hall the Scarlet Trou-
badours continue todeserve all the warm approval
this journal has to spare for a show of the draw-
ing-room variety. They were as good as their
word last Saturday ; they gave a complete change
of items without spoiling their average. A few
superfluous encores protracted their entertain-
ment later than 10.30 p.m., a time when all tune-
ful troubadours ought to be in bed.
The list of turns at the Opera House is
just how unusually and exceptionally level in
quality. Nobody of importance quitted the pro-
gramme last week, but a number of unexpected
people joined it, with results that were mostly
pleasing. Cull Pitt and Miss Adele introduce
illusions and things, not with the appalling
seriousness of a Chung Ling Soo, but in a frivolous
spirit. The Scotch Meisters are back after a tour
of the Universe ; and sundry others who never
were in the bill before are showing cause for their
presence. The advt. is hard-pressed to find
adjectives for all of them.
** * *
At Tait’s picture show at Melbourne Town
Hall last Saturday “The Matinee Idol,” a new'
colt, was the warmest favorite of the evening, and
depicted'in gorgeous burlesque the adoration for
the Roy Redgraves and Jule Knights of other
climes. Also cantered : “ A Daughter of the Sun,”
a rather pretty narrative in a Japanese setting ;
and “ The Aviator,” which is something new in
laughter-raisers. This picture asserts that an
angry papa can fill himself with gas in order
to pursue his daughter, who is having a heavenly
time in an aeroplane.
** * *
Nellie Stewart has had a wonderful week
at Adelaide Royal in “Kitty Bellairs,” and is
still going. She works hard, and successfully, as
the charming if improbable garrison widow who is
unsuccessfully concealed in an officer’s four-poster.
Some new and capable artists support her; Miss
Rosslyn Yane, in particular, who has here merely
to alternate between temper and tears, seems to
have greater possibilities. The play is attributed
entirely to David Belasco, the claims of Agnes
and Egerton Castle being ignored. It does not
betray its American origin until the third act,
when the verbal insults and the “scoring” by
cheap repartee begin. By the way, local audi-
ences have a specially unholy joy at seeing a red-
haired Bishop of Bath and Wells with his wig torn
off; for Adelaide provided the present occupant of
that office. (Not that Bishop Kennion has red
hair.) Harry Lauder, who was supposed to have
faded off the the local horizon, has simply moved
into the Tivoli, vacated by Rickards, and is better
heard there (per chronomegaphone) than before.
West’s pictures have taken bis place at the Town
Hall, and left Olympia to revert to its old use as
a skating-rink. And the Welsh singers have said
“Cwsg!” and other dubiously intelligible things
at the Victoria Hall—and will positively say them
no more, having sailed for S’Africa.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ D.”: There are few things more deadly to stage
illusion than to have previously known one of the char-
acters of the play in real life. This great truth was
borne in on me for the manyth time at Sydney’ Royal last
week as I gazed on Quinton Kingston’s counterfeit pre-
sentment of Diver Hughes, tiie rescuer of Varischetti.
I met Diver Hughes about a year ago. He was a
fat, short, silent, undistinguished little man, who
appeared to loathe any references to diving. The
limelight of popular approbation was not for him
if he could help it. The diver of “The Great Rescue”
co, js a hero of a different kidney. I never saw a life-
saver look on the limelight with a kindlier eye. He does
not believe in minimising the risks ahead when the
crowd gathers shudderingly round and watches him while
he dons his diving suit. “ I am ready and willing,” he
cries resonantly to the horrified populace, ‘ ‘ to face it ( i.e .,
the dive) though it leads to the Silent Unknown.” I tried
for some minutes to conceive the real diver whom I had
met weighing in with a sentiment like that, but failed
miserably. Still it is good that modern heroes should be
thus limned on the stage from time to time ; for then we
look with a more tolerant eye on the Napoleons, Caesars,
Neros, Jeffreys, and other prominent ones of past ages,
sure that, whatever their demerits, they were nothing
like the stagey posturers the average mime represents
them.
“Micawber”: Harry Shine, the one-time brilliant
comedian, and the original scarecrow of the “ Jack and
Jill” panto., is seriously ill in St. Vincent’s Hospital,
Sydney. I visited him a day or two ago. What a change
from the alert performer who made his first appearance
here many years ago, and hit us hard with bis remarkable
character impersonations, his indiarubber dance, his
weird falsetto, and his funny rising inflection 1 He is
still only 38 years of age, and may pull through ; but his
very strenuous life handicaps him heavily.
“ S.S.” : Amazing to me is the success of Maggie Moore
and co. in “Struck Oil” at Melbourne Royal. It was at
the Royal that Maggie first wagged the tow pigtail of
John Stofel’s “ Lizzie ” 35 years agone. The theatre ha*
been revised since then, and so has Maggie ; but “ Struck
Oil ” is the stupid play it formerly was—a play which,
when deprived of the important features deliberately
purloined from “Rip Van Winkle,”and the Dutch humor
that was fresh 35 years back, and the bright young
personalities that stirred Melbourne to its depths at a
time when the stage there was absolutely stagnant, has
simply nothing to recommend it. Yet with John Stofel
degenerated into a rather poor sample of the conven-
tional German humorist, the voice uplifted that ought to
be stilled, and Deacon Skinner a commonplace incarnation
of Snuffle, acted solely for cheap, comedy’ effects, the
theatre is filled for three or four weeks, and the petroleum
drama is a great business success for the 15th time. After
this I give up pretending to know what the public
doesn’t want.
Melbourne Bijou, where a cinematograph show has
been suffering from public neglect since the last time a
dramatic co. occupied the premises, is about to get
another chance to shake the blight off itself. Proprietor
Wilson has found an Amurkan enterpriser who, it is said,
has taken a lease of the house for three months from
July 1, paying the rent in advance. The theatrical in-
tentions of the forthcoming tenant-will be disclosed in
due course.
Nab Goodwin, known hereabouts as the partner of
Maxine Elliott, decided in 1907 that the theatre wasn’t
the place to make a quick fortune ; so he quitted it, and
amid a thousand newspaper pars, became managing
director of “Nat O. Goodwin and 00. (Incorporated),
mine operators and brokers, Nevada.” The co. spent
most of its time booming a “sure thing,” the Rawhide
Coalition Mines, which it controlled; and Poverty Point
was strewn with Nat Goodwin circulars on the subject.
But the usual villain arrived in Act 11. or thereabouts, and
evidently stole the gold from the mine; anyway, the
Financial News reports the collapse of the shares, the
blow-out of the business, and the probable early return of
Nathaniel to his old job.
“ Melb.” : I lately touched on the first Yiddish perform-
ance in Australia, that of the play of “Gabriel, or a
Wife’s Devotion,” by Weisberg’s company, at our local
Temperance Hall. I mentioned its similarity to the play’
of “The Jewess.” This led Weisberg to produce “ The
Jewess,” also in Yid., at the Temperance Hall on Thurs-
day night, May 27. Again there was a large and
delighted Hebrew audience. You could fancy yourself at
the People’s Theatre, New York. Weisberg, actor and
manager, comes from there. All through the drama
there was present in my mind Halevy’s opera of “La
Juive,” from which it is taken. Halevy, as a Jew,
put all his strength into this. It shares public favor,
at the Paris Grand Opera, with “Faust,” ‘ Oar-
men,” “The Huguenots,” “Mignon” and the works of
Massenet. Our little Melbourne show did its best to
emulate the big one. The Jewess, Rachel, is the sup-
posed daughter of Eleazar. She is accused before the
Cardinal Inquisitor of bewitching Prince Leopold, who is
betrothed to a Princess —a repetition of the case of
Rebecca, Rowena, and Isaac of York in “Ivanhoe.”
Rachel is condemned to be flung into a cauldron of
boiling oil. The last appalling scene, at the Paris Opera,
shows the steaming cauldron, elevated so that it may be
seen by thousands of spectators. Two masked execu-
tioners, under the Cardinal’s direction, seize the shrieking
Jewess, and fling her in. Shouts of joy. Eleazar yells to
the Cardinal: “ She is your daughter ! ” However, the
Temperance Hall audience had to be satisfied with a mere
burning of the Jewess, indicated by red fire,
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, of whom two generations of Aus-
tralian theatre-goers have pleasant memories, made a
reappearance in London lately in the Adelphi production
of “ The Devil.” She played under her old name of Rose
Edouin, and took the part of Madame Barron. The last
time she did anything in Australia was when she made a
brief appearance as the Nurse in Miss Tilda Brune’s
boudoir perversion of “ Romeo and Juliet.”
“Locust”: Harry R. Roberts, an Australian actor who
has made successes both in London and the great United-
syndicate-theatre-States, intends to replant himself here
again. He has bold ideas—to wit, he’s going to try and
build a theatre in Sydney, or get it built for him. Then
he’s going to have a shot at big stuff (including
“ Hamlet”), and from time to time produce the best Aus-
tralian plays he can find. He’s aiming at getting the real
stuff—slices out of the life of this strange country, start-
lingly novel to ourselves even ; stuff about station life
(and he won’t call them “ ranches ” either), the pearling,
the mining, the epic of agriculture, and the horse. This
young man is worth watching.
“Roller-pin”: Italian opera in English dress and in
camera form, at Sydney Town Hall, recalls memories of
the days when Martin Simonsen used to stage the
genuine article. “Aida” was never done by Fanny
Simonsen’s clever husband. This gorgeous work of
Verdi’s was played here only by Lyster and Williamson,
but Donizetti’s “ Lucia di Lammermoor ” was a standing
operatic dish with Simonsen. He always took it
on tour, and writer remembers once striking it
in Scotified Dunedin (M.L.), at the old Queen’s,
where Martin roped into the ball-scene a Highland
ballet and “twa ohiels” to play on the bagpipes.
During one of his seasons the Otago Hunt Club lent its
hounds for the forest scene in “ Martha,” a bit of Bland
Holt realism somewhat out of place in a Simonsen pro-
duction. Years later, in 1890, the club did the same kind
service for the Royal Comics in their first production of
“ Dorothy." Martin’s great hit in Dunedin wasßoldieu in
“La Dame Blanche,” played under the title of “The
White Lady of Avenel,” in which the Scotch libretto (it
is founded on Scott’s “ Monastery ”) appealed strongly to
the MaoTavishes, Macgregors, ana other clans in the
Edinburgh of the South. If Simonsen could have got his
Italian warblers to master the long English dialogues in
“ Rob Roy ” and “ Guy Mannering ’’ he would have put
them up too, but the Dagoes were tried and found wanting.
Gaston Mervale, as producer of “ Lucky Durham,’*
having been hauled over the coals by Melbourne Paunch
for allowing the gilt frames of the old family portraits in
the hero’s ancestral halls to look so fresh and up-to-date,
has fled into print for redress. Gaston says he wanted
them old and stained, but the managerial decree said
otherwise, as there was a desire to make the “ set ” look
bright. Only another instance, if such be wanted, of how
artistic correctness has to go by the board to make room
for meretricious glitter. Heaps of such cases could be
quoted, Boucicault, the elder, had Mephisto’s own job
in getting Drury Lane manager Chatterton to allow his
characters to appear with mud-stained boots in
Act I. of “ The Shaughraun,” where the dialogue contains
copious references to the rotten state of the weather
and the roads. When Planche produced “King John”
in 1823 for Kemble he dressed the piece with archaeological
correctness. The manager and the mummers spoke
bitterly of the helmets, which they compared to inverted
stewpans. “We will be roared at," prophesied the
croakers.” “So they were,” comments Planche; “but
it was with approbation.” Even in the eighteenth cen-
turj’, when scenery and clothes were a secondary con-
sideration, the great Spranger Barry, the original Norval,
a shepherd, in “ Douglas,” had to dress in a brilliant white
court suit of the period, instead of as a plain Highland
sheepkeeper.
Beerbohm Tree’s London revival of “ School for Scan-
dal,” which gives pretty 19-year-old Marie Lohr an
unheard-of chance as Lady Teazle in a cast considered
“all-star” even in London, fairly establishes the
young Australian as a “ top-notcher.” In the Tree
cast are Herman Vezin (80), Lionel Brough (76),
Edward Terry (65), and a number of other ancient lights.
The old folks tottered on the stage, mumbling and mouth-
ing ; yet the “first-nighters” were pathetically enthusi-
astic, and would have shouted the roof off if anybody had
shown them an actor 100 years old. Before the curtain
fell, however, youth had scored heavily, Marie Lohr,
Loraine (Charles Surface) and Basil Gill (Joseph) dividing
the real applause with Tree himself.
“ Drop Scene ” : Wherefore is itthat modern Australian
pantos, are not, as the singer of “Australyer” at Her
Majesty’s would put it, “fashioned with our hands”?
There is none of local make now running in the Com-
monwealth, nor has there been since “ Dick Whitting-
ton,” from Monty Grover’s pen, was staged in Sydney
some years ago. In the past, Sydney pressmen and
others did quite a lot of successful panto, writing.
Arthur Adams and Pat Finn, of the Sportsman, can both
plead guilty to “ books”—the latter, in fact, to nearly a
dozen of them. Patrick’s brother, Teddy, has also
written nine pantos. Bert Royle, before he took to the
commercial side of the theatrical business, pen-pushed
five more or less successful works of this kind ; and W. J.
Lincoln and Joe Browne, also business managers in
J.C.W.’s service, have turned out pantos. Bernard
Espinasse, before he went to London, wrote one. Of the
old hands, Akehurst, Marcus Clarke, Harry Emmett,
Josh Pickersgill, W. T. Goodge, and Garnet Walch all
wrote pantos, with considerable address and skill.
“Jean S.” : The introduction of an almost universal
Saturday half-holiday in Melbourne has led to the birth
of numerous suburban vaudeville, picture and dramatic
shows, all struggling to catch a little of the holiday cash
of the local tradesmen. They are not particularly
attractive shows, though they all have a rich moral
fragrance ; but they seem to suit the tastes of the shop-
keepers. They range from the classic drama of villainy
and blud to the sixpenny mixture of comic song and
shickergraph ; but occasionally there is a Salome dance.
Lately a Salome happened in my village ; but she hap-
pened for one night only, the trouble being that she was
apparently robed for a North Pole expedition. However,
there are other excitements. There is, for instance, a
gentleman who can twist his countenance into a like-
ness of King Edward VII., or an omelette, or something,
and his handbills, plus the handbills of the other enter-
t'ainers, are making the street corners a burden, and
the front garden a mess.
THE VOICES OF NATURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Young Edwin swore that he would be
An actor famed and fine ;
And out upon the grassy lee,
Where none might hear and none might see,
He mouthed the tragic line,
And struck his poses, one by one,
Beneath the much amazed sun.
Then “ All the world’s a stage,” he said.
Up came a flock of geese,
By one old waddling gander led,
And every bird stuck out its head.
Their hissing did not cease
Till Edwin swore with artist’s hate
And fled across the wide estate.
Upon a rock he stood again,
And thundered Shakspeare’s words
Across the wide Australian plain.
His conduct seemed to give much pain
To Simpson’s flocks and herds.
Came ewes, and lambs, and horned papa,
And “Bah!” the sheep said. “Bah!
Bah ! Bah ! ”
When Edwin got his chance at last,
And strutted on the stage,
The audiences rose aghast,
And vegetables raw they cast,
And boohed and hissed with rage.
Cried Edwin, as he fled the brawl s
“ The sheep were right then, after all! ”
victoria.
SILAS SNELL.
A PERMANENT INFLICTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Irving Sayles is not dead. We make this admission
without any desire to cast a slur on the critical taste of
the public.— Answer to Correspondent (B. IS/51’09).
What! lives he still? Then, Lord, let him beware !
Let him be circumspect, and have a care ;
For should he cross my path again, I swear
Blue murder will eventuate right there !
Too well I can recall the dismal sight
I used to pay to see each Thursday night,
When, for the raptured gods’ depraved delight,
Did Irving Sayles perform—while I took flight.
Yea, weekly once, I and my Marjorie
To Rickards’ made sad pilgrimage, and we
There met with him, and from him did we flee,
Pursued by his d —d rag-time melodee.
The song l he sang concerned a love-sick loon—
One known at Rickards’ as a “ rag-time coon ”
Who with his rag-time “ lydy ” used to spoon
Beneath a silver-shining rag-time moon. N
Still sings he thus ? Although the years roll by,
He and his weary tunes will never die ;
He’ll grin and sing, and Age and Time defy :
’Tis passing sad 1 Why acts he thus ? Oh, why ?
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


A PYJAMA REDUCTION.
15/6 Reduced to 12/6 Suit.
We made these Pyjamas in our own workrooms from
a special purchase of Ceylon Flannel, which we
bought at a big reduction, and are thus able to sell
really a 15/6 suit at 12/6. The patterns are neat, the
colors harmonious, and the cut and finish are such
that make them warm, comfortable and durable
Pyjamas of exceptional value. All sizes in stock.
Price 12/6 Suit.
We pay the carriage on these goods throughout the
Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES. LTD.
SYDNEY.
1
HALF REAL SIZE.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
The GOERZ "PAGOit
BINOCULAR.
A New Type of
Prism Binocular.
SMALLER than any other Prism Glass, YET just as
Brilliant. The Human Eye is NOT as biy as a dinner
plate, YET it answers the purpose for which it is
created.
THE GOERZ “PAGOR”
is a triumph of Optical Science. It transmits everything
as the Human Eye does, but with a Brilliancy never
before attained.
IT IS A MARVELLOUS BINOCULAR.
For Sportsmen, Tourists, Pastoralists, Ladies, etc.
Price (including- Slings and Leather Case),
Magnification, X 6 ; Weight, lOoz.
OTHER SIZES STOCKED.
£Bflsj-
HARRINGTONS LTD.
PHOTO. MATERIAL and CAMERA MERCHANTS,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
179 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
93 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
MULTUM IN PARVO.
“This is a very small steak, waiter!”
“ Yes, sir; but I think it will take you some time
to get through it.”
While Meath, head of the Empire Day
foolishness, was cabling round that “the Empire
blesses the King,” it looks as though the King
stayed at home scoffing at Meath’s Empire
League. Anyway, bucketfuls of official cold
water were thrown on the flag-flapping in Eng-
and, and an official notice was issued—
The Empire celebration is the birthday of the
Sovereign-
all others being bogus. Also the cadet corps of
the aristocratic Harrow school was forbidden by
the War Office to attend the Empire celebrations
in London—which wouldn’t tie of any consequence
at all if it did not show which way the wind
blows. The King is legally Commander-in-Chief
of the British army, and he seems inclined to
magnify his office now that there is no titular
Commander-in-Chief. Ed. VII. has always had
an idea that there are the makings of a great
soldier somewhere in his composition, and once,
at least, he got the command of a cavalry brigade
at a sham-fight. He was even supposed to be
anxious to command in war, as his great-great-
great-grandfather, George 11., did at Dettingen;
and possibly he hasn’t quite got rid of that idea
even now.
At Melbourne Criminal Court last week
Edgar and Grace Willson, a young married couple,
were charged with the wilful murder of their
daughter, Edna, aged four weeks. The evidence
showed that none but themselves had been in the
house with their child for some time previous to its
decease. They were the last people who saw it
alive and the first to find it dead. Each of them
made a statement to the police, corresponding in
essential details to the story which Mrs. Willson
told to her mother on the night of the day when
baby joined the angels. Here is the story :
Mrs. Willson said that the child had had along sleep that
day, and about two o’clock in the afternoon she took her tip
to give her a drink ; after that she replaced the child in
the basket, and went about her household duties. She
saw the baby afterwards, apparently sleeping peacefully,
but sometime later she noticed that its face was very pale
and cold. She called her husband, and they got hot
'water and attempted to restore the child, hut found it
was dead. Mrs. Willson then said she must go to her
mother, and they arrived at her house between six and
seven in the evening.
At nine o’clock the bereaved parents went to the
doctor to ask for a certificate, and he naturally
refused to give one. Another doctor made a post
mortem examination of the baby. He found its
skull fractured on both sides , and three of its ribs,
on the right side, fractured also. The injuries, he
said, might have been caused by a sudden over-
laying or a fall on the head, but the child must
have fallen on to something to fracture its ribs.
Seeing that the parents had no story to tell of having
overlain the baby, or of having dropped it on to
something, the Judge (Mr. Hood) seemed easily
convinced that “ if the mother spoke anything like
the truth, the child in some mysterious way met
its death by accident.” Having submitted
this theory to the jury, he asked them if they
were satisfied, and they said “ Quite satisfied,”
and found the accused parents not guilty. After
which the Judge added some remarks: “It is
very proper that these cases of sudden death
should be investigated, but I quite agree with the
verdict.” So, apparently, future juries are to know
what to do if a baby gets crushed in five places in
a mysterious way and is found dead.
The N.S.W. appeal-mad Government
made a desperate attempt last week to drive a
motor car through its own Local Government
Act. Agricultural Minister Perry was being
taken through Tenterfield in the State motor car,
with a State bobby as chauffeur. Another State
bobby swore that Perry dashed through at 20
miles an hour, and scared a horse in the main
street, to say nothing of a farmer, a smash-up
being the result. Bobby No. 2 thereupon sum-
moned bobby No. 1 for a breach of Ordinance 34
under the Local Government Act, which fixes a
penalty for any person who drives a vehicle in a
public street at such a pace as to frighten any
animals therein. Fined £2 and Costs. The
State thereupon proceeded to wipe out this ver-
dict, and the State Crown Law Department
appeared before Justice Sly on behalf of
the State motor car, State Minister, and State
bobby No. 1 to restrain the State bobby
No. 2 and the State magistrate from insist-
ing on the State fining itself. To that end
the State Law Department solemnly started to
prove that Ordinance No. 34 was rotten, being
both ultra vires and void for uncertainty. Now
Ordinance 34 was made with the approval of
Perry’s Government, and was also passed by the
Crown Law people as good before gazettal. So
the Crown Law Office and Perry really tried to
prove that their own handiwork was puerile.
Counsel for the Crown argued that the Ordinance
34 was vague and uncertain because it did not
define an animal. There was nothing to show
that it meant an old farmer or his crock ; so that,
being generally meaningless, aimless, and a dis-
grace to the party that gazetted it, it was not fair
to fine the said party under it. Justice Sly was
not taking any of this nonsense seriously, and
dismissed the appeal. He further ordere'd the
Crown to pursue itself and recover Costs from
itself both for Bobby No. 1 and for Bobby No. 2.
And Costs—that is to say, Wade’s brother-
lawyers—went away smiling.
“S.S.S.” sends some society notes from
Torres Straits :
Papua, our half-brother of the Commonwealth, has not
reduced his language to writing, though he has signs
that everybody can read. So if he desires to keep his
own cocoanuts, be pays a wizard to draw a long fringe of
palm leaves called Gora, and then all know that whoso
climbs those trees and steals the nuts will be smitten
with eaupoga. Eaupoga is a dire disease, and the owner
thereof is an outcast.
In the big shelling days there used to be a famous idol
on Badu. It looked a roughly-carved block about 2ft.
high, smeared with red ochre ; and the “ half-and-half ”
natives of the missions called it the “Wind Jesus”
without intending any blasphemy. When wind was
wanted, the diving boys painted it red, and when
there was too much monsoon, they hammered
it. “Yes,” said a white sheller, a man of cul-
ture, “we got to believe in the thing; and I was
brought up Scotchly too. I locked it away once aboard
the schooner. The wind fell, and we were becalmed for
a fortnight. Our boys moped round, and things were
anyhow. One morning they came aboard and said the
idol was ‘ hungry for red ochre.' I gave it back to them.
They made a big kai-kai, or feed, and supplied the idol
with a double daub. Within an hour a fine working
breeze sprang up, and we got an extra haul of shell. After
that the idol belonged to the boys.”
On a Torres Straits island lately something went wrong
with a native woman’s cooking arrangements. The
husband, coming in cold and hungry from his diving
boat or taro patch, found the wife away, and no dugong
and yams a-cooking. So the Council “ sat ”on it. Now
each councillor in turn inspects every hut at kai-kai
(meal) time, and lifts the lids of pots and pans, and prods
their contents with a dugong spear. If the meal is con-
sidered unsatisfactory, the husband is fined. But the
fine includes a permit to give Her a hiding. (No native
may beat his missus without permission from the Council.
Each island has four councillors, who represent native law
and order.)
Consider the struggles of Eliza Hall to get
on to a bit of Crown land in New England
(N.S.W.). It was in 1904 that the lady applied
for the land, and she would have got it but
for the fact that she was a respect-
able married woman. Had she
been a spinster, widow, or even
divorcee (possibly even a Flossie)
she would have been all right;
but as it was she was barred.
For five years has Eliza done
battle in the Courts—pitched
battle, siege, onfall, ambush-
ment, guerilla cam-
paign and other
kinds of strife. In
the first campaign
the Land Board
knocked Eliza out.
So did the Appeal
Court and the
Supreme Court; but
the High Court de-
cided in her favor.
That was the first
gleam of victory that
rested on the banner
of Eliza. But a
perfectly new set of
reasons were found
why the lady
shouldn’t have the
land. Again, the
Land Board and the
Appeal Court and
the Supreme Court
dispersed Eliza to the
four .winds, but the
High Court decided in
her favor. Second vic-
tory for Eliza. After that
a third set of reasons were
produced or devised, and
the Land Board and the Ap-
peal Court again laid Eliza’s hopes waste and
burnt her edifice to the ground. This time she
skipped the Supreme Court and went straight to
her one reliable friend, the High Court—and it
turned dog on her. Then the State Government
sold the land to some one else at £1 an acre. The
Costs amount to about 30s. an acre.
The relative importance of things, accord-
ing to Bumble! After firing out a proposal to
spend £lOOO in beautifying the city by tree-
planting, on the ground that the cash wasn’t
available, Sydney City Council, the other evening,
proceeded to demonstrate its financial tightness
by voting £25 for an address to a new Governor
(small size), and £lOO for the renewal of the gaud
Mayor’s damaged portrait. The rush to perpetu-
ate the memory of one quite ordinary person who
is still alive enough to perpetuate his own memory,
and the presentation of more buttered paint to
another, is all very well in its way; but when
Bumble makes the flummery outweigh more press-
ing needs, it is time for the city to say things in
its nastiest voice.
The recent conference of Australian Rail-
way Commissioners decided to adopt the Westra-
lian method of fumigating carriages, and thereby
slaying the non-paying passengers that infest the
more dilapidated vehicles. The plan is to close
up all doors, windows, etc. ; then place in each
compartment a glass vessel containing 4oz. of
water; into this pour 2oz. sulphuric acid, and
then add a few pellets of cyanide of potassium.
After that the operator makes a bolt for liberty
and life, and bangs the door after him, as “the
resultant prussic acid is speedily evolved, and is
poisonous.” The new plan is described as simple
and effective—so effective, in fact, that it is to
be hoped Tait, Johnson and co. will only put
their quickest jumpers on to the job.
THE MONEY TROUBLE.
“Hullo, what’s wrony with Billy? Ain’t he going
to play? ”
“ Dunno yet. Sez he won’t strip unless he gets
thruppence expenses, and the club’s just talk-
it over.”
CAPITAL AGAIN DRIVEN FROM THE
COUNTRY.
CITY MAN: “ Well, I had no idea that the con-
founded Factories Act was so far-reaching
as that! ”
The naughty old King of the Belgians, who
reigns in an atmosphere of domestic scandal, is
just now in trouble through the inherited
scandalousness of his daughter Louise. Dis-
reputable Leopold has a “royal” collection of
pictures and things which, seemingly, would go to
his daughter after his death ; .and, as she is in the
hands of the Jews, he proposes to sell the valu-
ables so as to bilk her creditors. This has caused
an uproar among the people (the pictures having
always been more or less open to public inspec-
tion), and the central object of the uproar is a
Rubens valued at £40,000. There are two famous
pictures by Rubens in the Royal Gallery at
Brussels —the portrait of Jean Charles de Cordes,
and that of Jaqueline Van Csestre, wife of Jean
aforesaid. Both are strikingly lifelike portraits
and gorgeous works of art. Presumably the one
that King Leopold wants to sell is Jean. His
royal old Nibs is notoriously devoted to women,
and Jaqueline in the picture has given him no
cause to get rid of her.
So that he might show a profit, Tait,
of Victoria, cut out scores of trains ; and those
that do run have to be big and long and
cumbersome in order to carry the traffic. But
when he made the trains longer he didn’t
also stretch the platforms; so that frequently
the carriages extend away out into space.
Last week this pleasant little neck-breaking
habit resulted in an action in which the De-
partment was defendant. The engine and
one carriage overran the end of the Croxton
platform. The door of this one carriage hap-
pened to be open. The lady plaintiff went
towards it, walked over the end of the plat-
form, and fell. Her husband, who was fol-
lowing, also fell. She sustained injuries to
her limbs, and got the inevitable “shock,”
which affected her general health. The de-
fence was a denial of negligence on the
Department’s part, and an allegation of
contributory negligence by the plaintiff, in-
asmuch as she had failed (in the uncertain
light of a gas lamp in the shadow of a pine
tree) to see that the platform ended some
20ft. or so from where the train began. A train
that stops at a railway platform is presumed
to be there to set down and take up passeng-
ers ; yet a person stepping from the carriage
that overran the platform might have broken
his or her neck. The public doesn’t bargain for
the risk of missing the raised platform in an
attempt to either reach or leave a carriage.
Nevertheless, the Judge and jury accepted, as
being all sufficient, the Railway Department’s
defence that the risk of falling off the platform
was fully revealed by two gas lamps; and the
action was dismissed with Costs against the
plaintiff.
RIGHT UP-TO-DATE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A suggestion has been made that girl scouts should be
formed here. It is pointed out that girl patrols
have been formed in Maoriland, and in view of the benefits
of scouting work and the rapid growth of the membership
of the boy scouts organisation, the opinion has been ex-
pressed that girl scouts patrols should be formed in this
State.— Evenoose (SB/51’09).
When I was a lad and had no sense
(And I haven’t much now, d’ye mind me !)
The tune I’d whistle on the backyard fence
Was “ The Girl I Left Behind Me.”
But that was years and years ago,
And the old man used to “ hide” me;
But I had most joy
As a London boy
When I had my girl beside me !
Oh, great are the ups and downs of Fate,
And life is a long vexation ;
But there’s nought so sweet as a long-haired mate
As a source of consolation !
For the chums may come, and the pals may go,
And the scorns of time deride ye,
But ye’ll bear ’em all,
And ye’ll think ’em small,
With a long-haired mate beside ye !
When a man grows old he oft gets vain,
And sometimes a little bit barmy ;
But I wish I were a boy again,
To join our Citizen Army !
I’d march along to front the foe,
And I’d want no star to guide me,
For I’d do my share
Of the do and dare
With a Girl Patrol beside me !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE


No! No! No! No!
This word is used four times by Prof.
W. Hodgson Ellis, Official Analyst to the
Canadian Government, in reporting the
result of his analyses of Sunlight Soap.
“No unsaponified fat”; that means no
waste.
“No free alkali” ; that means no damage
to clothes or hands.
“No loading mixture ”; that means every
atom is pure soap.
“No adulteration whatever ”; that means
pure ingredients.
Try Sunlight Soap, and you will see
Prof. Ellis is right. He should know.
Reuben Waterchalk, our milkman,
Is a model of that ilk.
Clothes his cows in rugs, does Reuben,
Lest the rain might spoil the milk.
Once he wasn’t half so honest.
And the milk was far from pure.
He attributes his conversion
All to Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
m
Tasteful KNITTED VESTS.
The .young- naan who wants “smart effects,"and
the older man who desires quiet conservative
tones, will be equally suited from our present
large stock. Nowhere is such a wide selection
possible, or value qualifying each grade. Our
Winter Vests are exceptionally satisfactory in fit,
and give a nice degree of warmth combined with
elegance of style. The material is long-fibre wool
guaranteeing serviceable wear, and the patterns
are varied.
They button close to the neck, have warm
elastic hacks, the edges are ribbed, and the
styles are exactly what is correct to-day.
Black Ground with White Spots .. 14/6
Blue Ground with Red Spots .. 14/6
Black Ground with Red Spots.. 14/6
Green Ground with Red Stripe 16/6
Brown Ground with Green Stripe .. 16/6
We have cheaper if desired.
Give chest measurement when ordering and
add 6d. for postage.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Med” : While a deputation represent: "•£
the Melbourne, the Eye and Ear, and the
Women’s Hospitals was having a few words with
the Treasurer, the fact came out that each
of the “honoraries” at the Melbourne Hos-
pital received £6O a year for services rendered
to students. Dr. Barrett mentioned that
at the Eye and Ear Hospital the students’
fees were used in the purchase of appara-
tus for them. But nothing like that happens
at the Melbourne Hospital. It is the one
clinical general hospital in the State, and yet
its wards and laboratories lack the most necessary
equipment for students’ work. St. Vinci nt’s
Hospital, which is fitted up in modern style, and
whose honoraries refuse to touch any fees, has
been trying for some time to be declared a clinical
school; but the Melbourne honoraries, foreseeing
the loss of a few pounds per year, and fearing
competition, have so far successfully blocked the
scheme. A fair proportion of the £6O cert-.inly
does eventually go to the hospital, but it goes in
the purchase, not of apparatus, but of votes. The
elections of honoraries at this institution have
smelt for many a day. When the elections are
drawing near, the hospital receives subse-options of
£1 in the names of friends and relations of the
honoraries, and these all vote their ticket. As the
elections occur only once in five years, it takes but
a small fraction of the £6OOO received by them in
that time to make their re-election sure.
* * * *
From the Oldest Inhabitant :
There was offered at auction recently in Sydney the
oldest house on Surry Hills, built 70 years ago, before
the street was named. Auburn Cottage, Bourke-street,
was built by Lancelot Iredale, who was then in business
as an ironmonger in George-street, near the south-
east corner of George-street and Market-street. Iredale
established himself there in 1820 ; pictures of the quaint
old shop are extant. His private residence on the Surry
Hills, where he had another old colonist, Reuben
Uther, for neighbor, had some three acres of ground
attached to it. The fine pines, still standing, were
planted by the original Iredale. He died in 1848.
After some years his widow married a Methodist mini-
ster named Schofield, who was himself a wealthy man.
The couple lived in Auburn Villa, and both died there.
Since then the cottage has had some noteworthy
tenants—Saul Samuel, Sigismund Hoffnung, and others.
The Jesuits also had it as a college, and built
large additions, but later on moved their school to
Lane Cove. A sisterhood of nuns then acquired the
property, and it is they who are now disposing of the
old house and the new.
A curious case is reported. On May 21 a
man was moved into Sydney Hospital. On May
26 he died. On May 27 the hospital people were
about to bury him, when several persons simul-
taneously applied for the corpse. An examination
was then made, and it was discovered for the first
time that the deceased had been suffering from
skull fracture. It is also up to the hospital people
to explain what they treated the
patient for, and what they thought
he died of. Also, it is up to these
neople who made such a rush
for the body to explain the why-
ness of their haste.
AN INSTANCE TO THE CONTRARY.
No. 1.
Although to be sure there are instances to the contrary
which will suggest themselves to every citizen, it is true
that in the majority of cases our policemen are dilatory
and apathetic in the performance of their duties.—Mel-
bourne Press Opinion.
EXCITED CITIZEN : “ I think you are needed down
there , Policeman. The Occident Hotel is open
and wholly unguarded—not a soul on the
premises , and "
AN INSTANCE TO
THE CONTRARY.
No. 2.
CONSTABLE O’HOOLIGAN O’HARA : “Murthcr an ’
’ounds, man, out iv me way!"
In the way of fatuous remarks this year’s
cable message from the Earl of Meath, head of the
Empire Day foolishness, takes a lot of beating :
“Empire blesses the King.” The remarkable
piece of information was handed on by N.S.W.
Acting-Gov. Simpson to Wade, and Wade, who
didn’t know what to do with it, spent some of
the last lot of loan money in wiring back :
“Warmly reciprocate Empire greetings.”
Heaven only knows where the greetings
were. If Smith, of Woolloomooloo, in a
burst of wild inconsequence, wired to
Brown, of Boggabri, on Brown’s birthday :
“Sydney curses the weather,” Brown
wouldn’t guess in the next 12 months that
Smith had been sending him greetings.
On the contrary, it’s a hundred to one
that he would merely remark that Smith
had gone off his head, and that his address
oughtn’t to be Woolloomooloo any longer.
The Law got tangled in its own web, in a
manner of speaking, at Ballarat lately, when it
wanted to try Michael Patrick Ballyhooley, or
someone to that effect, on a charge of stealing one
fish, value 9d. Michael happened at the time to
be doing seven days for some irregularity, and
when the Law presented its remand warrant the
governor of the gaol coldly replied that he had
been ordered to hold Mick’s person for 168 hours,
and he wasn’t going to let the earthly tenement
of Mick leave his premises for a dozen warrants.
The police limb of the Law mentioned this to the
magistrate limb, and asked for a special order to
compel the governor to produce Michael’s corpus,
but the beak said the remand warrant was
sufficient, and he wasn’t going to issue a special
order to any gaol governor. After that the various
sections of the Law discussed matters at great
length, and opinions were sought and pronounce-
ments made ; but by,the end of the seven days
nobody seemed much further ahead, so Mr. Bally-
hooley departed and left the fish (value 9d.) as
it was.
In a catastrophe which happened at
Madrid (Spain) last week, Providence showed
its usual indifference to what may be called
the religious fitness of things. The
cathedral at Avila' was struck by
lightning whilst Divine service was
being performed. Three women and
one of the priests were killed.
Heaven, in its wrath, didn’t stop
to pick its “marks.” Down came
the lightning ; an officiating priest
chanced to he in the way and his
funeral was to-morrow. And what
was the moral effect of this inci-
dent upon the worshippers, dear
friends ? Did they continue their
devotions with Christian fortitude,
remarking that “ Blessed are they
who die in the Lord,” or words to
that effect ? Did they think how
good it was to be in church when
sudden death was threatening ?
No. They just bolted for the doors,
and 27 persons were injured in the
all-round attempt to vacate the tabernacle.
* * * *
By advfc. in the Renmark Pioneer, Kaiser
Singh calls on S. Australia to take him more
seriously or put up with the consequences :
I GIVE NOTICE
That some people being- called me bad language,
jealous for business, if any body call me next time
bad language he got to pay my business and costs.
I have got a certificate by India signed to South
Australian Government to do business in medicine in
British country. I been cure lots of people in this
country, and always give directions how use the
medicine. Cure satisfactory any diseases if anybody
use my medicine properly.
Kaisee Singh, Indian Hakim,
Renmark, 21st st., next Mr. Black’s shop.
AUNTIE: “We could never approve of you marrying Mr. Smith, Dorothy. Your father thinks
he’s a spendthrift, your mother thinks he’s dissipated, and I think that he’s altogether
unsuited to you. Now what do you think?”
DOROTHY : “I think I’d better wait till he asks me, auntie.”
The Victorian Public Service Board, in-
quiring into the conduct of the overseer at the
Pentridge penal farm, has been hearing some re-
markable things about that institution. It was
sworn at the inquiry that while some Pentridge
officers grazed their cows on the prison lands at a
nominal fee, others paid nothing whatever ; that
manure sent in for the farm was taken to the
officers’ private gardens; that many of the
prisoners sent to work the farm were physical
wrecks, numbers being lame and partially blind ;
that the overseer had nevertheless to give credit
to the value of 3s. 6d. per day for every man sent to
him to work ; and that of the horses supposed to
be used on the farm, some were over 30 years old-
several had been working there for 16 years—while
the useful ones were often taken away and used
for other purposes. Taking it by and large, it
looks as if Pentridge badly needs an overhaul.
The concern is supposed to be for the detention
and reclamation of criminals ; but if this is the
best the Department can show them by way of
bright and shining example, no wonder so many
of them make a hash of things again as soon as
they are set free.
* * * »
The stowaway Chow takes long odds these
times. When the Commonwealth harpoons him
in his usual reserved berth in the bunkers or the
bilge, it hands him good stone jug till the vessel
is ready to take him back home ; and more stone
jug is pressed upon him when he arrives there.
The 20 bunker passengers by the Eastern last
December were served with nine months’ “hard”
when they were dumped back into Hongkong;
and the Prinz Waldemar’s more recent half-dozen
were provided with a “sixer” a-piece. The
Hongkong authorities say they know the hustling
agents who smuggled the speculative tourists on
to the boats, and want to provide them with a
little cold jug, too; but so far they haven’t been
able to lay even an eye, let alone a hand, on the
enterprising gentlemen.
* * * *
The snobbery of the Melbourne Argus
reaches great depths at times. When Deakin
was commissioned to form his Ministry, the
Argus was careful to mention that the Governor-
General had sent for him in a different and ob-
viously more respectful way than he had for
Fisher. “Fisher was summoned by telephone,”
said the Argus ; but Mr. Deakin had “ a gentle-
man from Government House” to wait upon him.
Obviously, in the mind of the Argus, Fisher, as a
member of the common herd, could not expect a
“ gentleman” to wait upon him. Gentlemen can
only wait upon gentlemen—whatever else they
may be !
One of the after-effects of the recent soul-
shaking services in Melbourne is a mild agitation
for food reform. The winter is not the most suit-
able time of the year for starting a movement
against fat loin chops and tender fillet steaks, or
stirring up strife as regards Irish stew ; neverthe-
less an attempt to establish a Food Reform League
will be made at the Temperance Hall next
Monday (14th). A number of reputable citizens
are keen on reforming the public’s bill of fare;
and, though they admit it is easier to persuade
the average man that he devours too much meat
than to get him to abandon his fleshly lusts, they
are resolved to talk on the subject. Also they
will issue circulars when the League gets going.
Meanwhile, excessive beef-eaters are invited to
attend the meeting at the Temperance Hall that
the reformers may give ’em beans —or spinach. It
is to be hoped that they will put up a wholesome-
looking apostle to open the proceedings—one
with just enough bingey to inspire confidence—
and that he and everybody else will make it quite
clear that what is aimed at now is food reform and
not vegetarianism, which two things are not
necessarily the same thing by any manner of
means.
* * * 4c
Kilmore contains a dilapidated joke be-
longing to the Victorian Education Department.
The ruined jest consists of the house which the
school-teacher is compelled to pay rent for and is
supposed to inhabit. As a matter of-cold, scorn-
ful fact, each successive teacher prefers to rent a
humpy of his own, although the Department each
year methodically hews off a slice of his salary
for the rent of the tangle of old building material.
The ruin has now reached the eyesore stage, and
the only human beings that use it are the more
decayed sundowners to whom nothing matters
much. Of course, it is hard to fix such things
definitely, or to nail the real facts down by the
coat-tails, but the chances are that the ruin was
originally put up in the long ago with a fragment
of some forgotten loan; and probably again that
loan is still alive and kicking, and is getting ready
to fall due with a horrifying thud. If that be the
case, the mass of worm-eaten boards up in
Kilmore is a good, if smelly, object-lesson, for the
departmental records in Melbourne still regard it
as a permanent and reproductive asset, whereas it
is merely a sort of swindle-myth, and a dusty dis-
grace on a fair countryside.
THE SAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet raves, the lover sighs—what are their ecstasies
but the chemical reactions of the brain cell—the grand
passions of the moment are literally the combustion of
the food we eat burning in our cellular structure. That
motion called I.ove might be reduced to the verbiage of
science as K 2 PCM. — Prof. Aloysius Coot.
’Twas morn, and o’er the dew-strewn turf
I strode to greet the spring.
I saw the gay convolvulus,
The bird upon the wing,
The frescoed shadows of the lawn,
The bees—the busy hive ;
I snuffed the air. “ Aha ! ” said I,
“ ’Tis good to be alive.”
And as I walked I came upon
A man of doleful air.
“ Good day ” said I, “ How bright the morn,
And free the world from care ;
Behold the clouds —high Heaven’s fleece—
Observe the mountain’s blue,
Go walk with Nature, hand in hand,
And let her sing to you.”
The man of gloom he raised his head.
“ Young sir, absurd,” said he,
“ These things have been reduced to fact
In Simple formulae.
Why should I rave in ecstasy
Of clouds athwart the blue,
When by a chance they may be smoke
Which is but C 02.”
“ But, sir, the sparkling dew,” said I,
“ Like diamonds all aglow.”
The stranger’s lip with pity curled,
“ ’Tis merely H 2 O.”
My spirits dropped ; he deftly proved
My raptures were no more,
Thau brain reactions which he said
Was K 2 PCM.
Hard by, where stood a sign which read
“ KEEP OFF. ELECTRIC MAIN,”
We paused. The stranger poked around.
Said he, “ The fact is plain,
The potent forces that we know ”
And here he touched the gear.
A flash ! A crash ! The stranger seemed
To vanish on his ear.
’Twas morn, and o’er the dew-strewn turf
I strode to greet the spring.
I saw the gay convolvulus,
The bird upon the wing ;
The frescoed shadows of the lawn ;
The bees, the busy hive.
I snuffed the air. “ Aha !” said I,
“’Tis good to be alive.”
VICTORIA.
GORDON MASSEY.


WTc oj/
Cer'tsu.'n
i‘»?o»'c
of A,
Hr we liberal "by
oj- Tub- >
toH . M
/K mV 1 } t©
e*fiao« "hii j>jr§s-
enc<3 in ‘ViaTel
wa^rdv'oVe tdurjno
"hoar^
Sadd "lie lo S r h'S
presence. «f mind
& K&n To <i«T~
tyf&j -from 'ttje
foliee.
Ir&'ttt Householder'.—
BiH '. *—•
looK ou-rf^r
L -ffeis ! "
Wl you Jo '•» ?
' OH,NoY««e« g«vho*-, — ( seen c«f>|xv-
" 'here "fo out~ l5 roa.4 J
j i fo © 11 1?
Iv^o
His £Y . —(on S for fle*K.'o)
MUe m«. 'f oM> ' wm|n ’ She«+\ of Close
- p—"*. !!)'
De2\ki*i (To hi*Constituency): — L ove love my f>aJ )
J.a.w.H s bej
K<?ef your , i-ny so*i
H l ' e(ecev>T ou\~
'yow &)>}>* *r to |t"!
~IS»«£S "Hirov/n \>y "ftje £e&i,
" I+ - «S f>ei-fcctly true, tfat /VDeas*.i« s h r€se „f-
y <
described .§& l6e of aJ* parties ‘
MOSTLY FUSION.


Volte's f Wolfe's
Schnapps » Schnapps
A PURE SPIRIT, SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
4|- in the £ Discount
We are taking off all Table Requisites.
The slump in Metals has enabled us to make special
arrangements with the greatest and best manu-
facturers of England to sell their Electro-Silver
products at 20 per cent, discount off their English
Wholesale Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions on all
our Electro-Silver Stock.
BUY WHILE SILVER IS LOW.
Best Electroplate, 37/6; less 20%, 30/-
In all sizes and designs.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
REPRIMANDED.
FAT AND WEARY : “ You'd better be movin' on,
mate; there’s only room, for one of us in this
town.”
WEARY AND RAGGED : “ Pardon, sir, for accost-
ing you, but before I spoke I mistook you for
a pal. I now recognise that you have the
aspirations and the feelings of that class
vulgarly referred to as the 'very fat.'"
“Dandalup”: “ Yigilans ” (B. 22/4/’O9)
interests me when he discourses on the mixed
European races which are helping to build up our
great Commonwealth of the South. Westralia
boasts quite a community of men who go down to
the sea in very rickety boats, and lure the in-
habitants of the deep into their capacious baskets
what time the mothers stay at home and do their
share in the building up of the great southern
white race. These fishermen are mostly Danes,
Norwegians, Swedes, Germans, Italians, Aus-
trians, with a fair sprinkling of English bringing
up the rear. The men are large, healthy, sun-
browned, life-loving, hard-working, happy indi-
viduals—worthy sires of nations to be. The
children are healthy and bright-faced little beings,
strong of limb and smart of intellect, with some of
the turbulent blood of the Vikings in their veins.
The only thorn in the side of the white fisherman
of these parts is the Jap. The Monkey has no
scruples; he scours the seas, closed ground and
otherwise ; exists on the stinks which arise from
his odorous craft, plus a little rice ; and, finally,
undersells the white man. When the Great Test
comes, the men who will hit the Stinkos and
Skitos of Nippon hardest will be Olaf, Hans and
Co., of Westralia.
* * * *
“Aural”: Socialism, if it gets half a
chance, will soon be the making of the great
North West (W.A.). As a mining country it is
essentially a small man’s field. I spent 13 years
there scooping out the yellow metal, yet I came
away poor, because the curse of Socialism hasn t
yet gripped the place. My party found any
amount of ounce shows and better. (A 4dwt.
show pays in Victoria.) We simply selected the
nearest to a battery—a private concern 33 miles
away. Cartage, £3 10s. per ton ; crushing, 355.
(it is Bs. in Vic.). We dug gold for years, but the
battery man and the carters got most of it. We
got experience, and especially a belief in Govern-
ment interference in the shape of socialistic State
batteries. There are a few, but not enough by
hundreds. They charge according to a sliding
scale; that is, for the best stone Socialism
charges several per cent, less than Private Enter-
prise, while for poor stuff the fat man’s
enemy has dropped its charges so much below
its rival’s that even ounce stone pays. So
where the Government battery is the com-
munity increases, the carter gets more work
and the tradesman more business, and a dead
village becomes a live town. Imagine Private
Enterprise running batteries on the sliding-scale
system. These Government batteries are electri-
fying the great Nor’-West. It will one day be a
huge mining camp. And the country is not ‘A
desert. The liar who says it is never saw it.
Where sheep grow, crops will; but the wool kings
know it is to their interest to condemn the country.
Vegetables equal to any in the East are to be had
about Roeburne for 3d. a lb. The climate is like
that of the Northern Territory, fit for any white
man who isn’t a fat loafer. I grafted there for 13
years without a day’s sickness. There are two
causes of the non-development of the place—the
indifference and Tory corruption of the Perth
Government, which objects to any interference
with the squatter, and the reckless and im-
provident character of the present residents.
Bullocky Jack is a type. He started from Condon
with two teams of 16 bullocks each, travelling
to Marble Bar with grog—bottled beer, whisky
and brandy. The waggons became known as Bul-
locky Jack’s pub., for he shared with every
traveller he met, and reached his destination with
ne’er a sup. One hundred and thirty miles of
bottles remain as a monument to this historic trip.
V • * •
“Arsemo”: I see that certain writers
contend that the goburra eats carrion. With all
due courtesy, I am constrained to re-
mark that they lie. About ten years
ago, while mustering on Bungout sta-
tion, some 500 miles west o’ Beyond,
I found a number of beasts dead and
partly eaten. I held an inquest, and
found unanimously that broken necks
were the cause of death in every case.
My mate Bill and I set ourselves to
watch. Two days passed uneventfully.
In the early morning of the third day
I was awakened by a loud bellowing,
and, rushing out was appalled to see
one of the beasts being carried into the
air by the tail. The lifting power
consisted of 562 goburras. On reaching
a height of about 300 ft., the birds let
go, and their burden fell crashing into
the scrub where our camp was pitched.
I rushed towards it, only to find that
the animal had landed on poor old Bill,
killing him instantly. It had also
broken its own neck. I was overcome
with grief; but, pulling myself to-
gether, I secured my horse and hurried
to the homestead to break the news
and secure assistance to bury William.
The boss asked fearfully whether I had
covered Bill’s corpse or not, and when I
said that I hadn’t, he cried “Good
heavens! ” and turned ashen pale.
Furthermore he shook like an aspen.
How we hurried back to the scene of
the tragedy ! We found that the beast
was already partly devoured, but Bill’s
body was untouched. The goburras,
exercising that close reasoning faculty
which distinguishes their kind, had
argued that Bill was carrion—he having
been slain, not by them, but by the
falling beast—and so, in accordance
with the laws of their caste, they had
let him alone. Poor old Bill; it’s a
long time ago now, but the tears still
come into my eyes—however that, as
Allen Taylor would say, is another story.
■* * * »
“ Spud ” : A species of insanity prevalent
among the big cockies of Riverina at the present
day is a desire to possess the largest surface-tank
in the district. Some of them, owning a couple of
thousand sheep, have tanks large enough to
supply a station with 50,000 jumbucks. Then, on
sale-day and other days when cockies are gathered
together, they boast themselves unto their neigh-
bors with a boast of much dimension. He of the
largest tank carries much weight, and gets into
the shire council, and becomes president. Two
cockies in my district have practically ruined
themselves over this tank rivalry. A 2000 yd.
tank is a good supply for an ordinary cocky, but
these men each have three tanks of over 4000 yd.,
and are busy with more. Another cocky has two
permanent springs on his place, each of which
could be easily dammed ; but he is also infected
with the surface-tank fever, and is after the
tank belt. When Murphy went past Reynolds
the other day, he saw him measuring out new
drafting yards about 150 ft. square. In response
to a polite inquiry, Reynolds, with malice afore-
thought and a lamentable lack of veracity, replied
that he was putting down a new tank. Murphy
stepped it with his eye, and next week called for
tenders for a tank 55yds. square. He will play
up when he finds out ; but if the tank gets
finished, he will, of a surety, be returned un-
opposed next shire elections.
A KINDRED SOUL.
SPORTING SHEARER (to our curate , who is riding
over to a croquet ’party): “ Hullo , goin’ ter
play polo? Come over into Murphy's paddock , an’ I'll give yer a game for drinks.”
“S.L.”: Travelling south-west in primi-
tive Tasmania, one happens on much food for
thought in some of the
domestic hovels. In one
place, six by about no-
thing in size, the walls
were hieroglyphed, like
those of a Chow’s den,
with the family accounts
in various shades of lead
pencil, such as: “ Pade
the bootcher fore pens yes-
terday ; Jonny’s ears—
arfakrown.” On another
partition of dank board a
faded print of Raphael’s
Madonna shed lustre on
the ancient and dog-like
atmosphere from out of a
heart-shaped frame com-
posed entirely of cigarette
cards of the ballet de-
scription. Oh, Life was
good there at some time
or other, and the Madon-
na couldn’t have looked
any unhappier if she’d
been in the local church.
Somewhere in the same
region I struck a bush
school, where to State
education was added State medical inspection.
I struck the place on inspection day, and the
pedagogue who bossed the crib got yarning
while the process was going on. He told
how once “ he’d been in the profession, but
give it up, as there were too many in it for
him ; now he run the school, an’ did a bit of
doctorin’, on his own.” And he was proud of
that bit of doctorin’. “ When the kids wants a
drink I just fills up a bucket in the corner, and
once or twice a week I empties in three or maybe
four or five packet’s of salts—an’ they has it that
way.” One marvels not then at the general
activity of the coming race out in West Tassy.
And the cow is also active in that primitive land.
Central Tassy is decked with a town where a
single hotel runs the whole business, and
there the public-house cow takes her turn
daily to drag the luggage cart from the rail-
way to the front door. Then, Nature asserting
herself, the poor animal is called upon to produce
the family milk half an hour later. How is that
for sweating?
The early Victorians must have been a
drinkable lot. Spread around Melbourne’s outer
suburbs are the relics of sundry pubs that would
seem nowadays to be too out-of-the-way to do any
business; yet they throve for years cheek by jowl
with others that still have to struggle to live on
the much denser population. On the 12-mile road
from Oakleigh to The Gully, two licensed houses
battle along, 3J miles apart ; and between
them used to be the Cheshire Cheese, a 14-
roomed stone building with a beautiful cellar,
now the home of a market-gardener. The
15-mile stretch between Box Hill and Lily
dale grudgingly carries seven tanglefoot em-
poriums ; 20 years ago it boasted nine.
DULY WELCOMED.
CHIEF: “ Just write to the editor of the Presby-
terian and say the Rev. Mr. Toothsome has
arrived, and is now in our midst.”
One has been abandoned and dropped to
pieces ; the other is pervaded nowadays by a boot-
maker and poultry-raiser. On a little-used cross-
road at Burwood the Pig and Whistle is now
represented by the remains of a dilapidated
cellar; and on the almost-deserted track from
Mitcham to East Doncaster the onetime Empress
of India pub spent its latter days as a fruit-
grower’s abode. It was burnt down one Sunday
afternoon four summers ago. Her Royal High-
ness. if alive, could hardly sell a gallon of beer a
week now, yet 30 years ago the two-acre camping
ground opposite was alive with brawling, royster-
ing woodcutters, fencers and shearers, doing in
their cheques. Verily it is getting to be a sober
world.
THE PIPE OF PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s {food, when work is over,
And day’s long toilings cease,
In evening scents of clover
To smoke the pipe of peace ;
To watch the wild birds homing,
To feel the tender gloaming,
And see the pasture-rover
Oome in with heavy fleece.
It’s good to sit and ponder
Beside the old hut door,
And watch the clouds out yonder
Like some resplendent shore,
With bays that gleam and glimmer,
And seas that shine and shimmer,
That call the soul to wander
Where Peace reigns evermore.
And as the birds come winging,
To sylvan haunts and friends,
With melodies set ringing
Each varied cadence blends ;
To restfulness attuning
Their tender notes and crooning,
As, ushered in with singing,
The calm of night descends.
It’s good to hear the bleating
Of anxious mother-sheep—
The ready call of greeting ;
The answer, full and deep.
And all the farmyard-prattle,
As dim, slow-filing cattle
Wend towards the sheds, retreating
To humble halls of sleep.
Not all the wide world over,
From Sydney Town to Greece,
Shall sea or city rover,
That hunts the golden fleece,
Atta ; n such joy of living
As he who, as thanksgiving,
In evening scents of clover,
Shall smoke the pipe of peace.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.
THE PASSENGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our star of hope is hid with dust; warm dust is on our
brows,
And dust is in his curses as the teamster makes his vows ;
But all my trouble’s over till we strike the clearing stop,
For my Matilda’s fare is paid ; she’s bumping up on top.
To-day’s my easy, droning day, when I can stroll and
dream,
And face the fragrant morning with the leaders of the
team ;
As now I watch the far road, where its yellow ribbons
wind—
The toiling sixteen, horse and mule, come lumbering up
behind.
To chase a change of luck along the torrid northern
track,
To chevy colored bubbles on a new, wild, thirsty tack, —
I’m shiftin’ camp, I’m movin’ with my trouser-pockets
full
Of idle hands, and smoking while the sweating horses
pull.
My luggage—tent and cooking-things, bleached blueys
and old boots—
Are stacked above the wheels behind the poor, old team-
ing brutes.
I’m off to find far treasure-lands, where easy quids are
mined.
How far? Well, far enough, let’s hope, to lose the luck
behind.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
From 13/- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
u&l
Shorthand, Typewriting,
r keeping, Correspondence, Business 1
rArithmetic, Commercial Law,
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering,
Architecture and Building Construction,
Freehand Drawing, Stc.,and we coach by
Post for all Examinations,
Write for "HOME STUDY." Post From
Sfoffcffoare’s
Business College
Moore St Sydney.
SdN
hTjc.
BC. 1
That our Pills Laxo-Tonic are best
The States have all frankly confessed
Where all others fail
Laxo-Tonic prevail,
And so they are most in request.
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, l()£d. and Is. 6d.
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation,
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprieror
“Eighty-sixer” : In the first blush of the
Kimberley rush I swagged it from Anton’s Land-
ing, Cambridge Gulf (now the town of
Wyndham) up to Hall’s Creek. Prospectors who
had never handled a pick, experts who couldn’t
tell granite from sandstone, and a nondescript
crowd of spielers, barmaids, and other adventurers
went gaily along for a few miles and presently
wondered what had struck them. The country
was then Sahara on a small scale, and as there
vvas another stream of the same mottled descrip-
tion >etting in from Derby, on the westward tack,
matters soon reached boiling-over point. Tucker
was scarce ; gold more so. Scores of poor devils
were glad to take afternoon tea with the natives,
and were never heard of afterwards. As a great
goldfield, Hall’s Creek was a dismal, ghastly
failure, and to-day it maintains itssinister record.
After an absence of 23 years, I find myself
writing from a spot where I camped in the
’eighties with a couple of mates —both since
speared by blacks. Hall’s Creek is just such a
God-forsaken hole as any other God-forsaken hole
in the Universe. Buck spinifex and stones,
amidst which hundreds of gaunt long-bearded
goats wander disconsolately, make up the only
picturesque feature in the landscape. The angel
of desolation sits brooding overlthe country, and
has placed crows in possession as bailiffs to collect
his back rents. There is undoubtedly gold, and
good discoveries may yet be made. There is an
enormous extent of auriferous country, but there
is no feed for horses, and the enormous cost of
everything required to maintain life drives back
the prospector—usually a poor man. Anyhow,
Hall’s Creek just now is a back number. At
Tanama, 160 miles away, over the South Austra-
lian border, some reefs have been found ; but men
who have returned from there are not inclined to
be enthusiastic. A fairly-well-equipped party
has gone out to test the reefs, but as it is a
British proposition, Bull will probably find
another wild cat in his back yard before he is
much older. Yet, in my opinion, the railway to
Marble Bar—if extended on to Nullagine—will
open up one of the finest reefing countries in
Australia. There are hundreds of reefs worth
loz. to 2oz. down to water level, but it costs
more than that to work them under present
conditions.
* * * *
“ Mallacoofca ” : One of the youngsters
aiound here brought in a human jawbone the
other day. The rabbits had burrowed into an
ancient burying ground in pa’s paddock—hence
the grisly trophy. In the cause of anthropology
we dug out the burrow, and came across a full-
grown skeleton in a state of fair preservation.
The main feature of the find was that one of the
forearms exhibited an old compound fracture.
There was a medical cove among the digging
party, and he pronounced it an exceeding good
mend. Also he opined that the departed 'tribes-
man had been underground perhaps the best part
of a century. Which rises the proposition that
the original landowners of these parts had a fair
knowledge of elementary surgery. Anyhow,
they made a good job of their badly broken brown
brother.
NO CAUSE FOR ALARM.
GEORGE: “I dunno ’ow it is, Bill, but you never
seem to worry about anything.”
BILL: “ Why should I? Why, I reckon I’ve got
enough money to keep me all me life if I wos
to die to-morrer.”
MORE WHITE AUSTRALIA.
THE BOSS: “ Trouble, Kitty — that’s what bin turn my hair white; plenty trouble for six years.”
Kitty: “Mine stay alonga missus tick year, Kitty turn plenty white too, you tink it?”
“M.U.D.” (bitterly): A plague on this
modern spirit of progression (so-called). I refer
more particularly to the rage for building railways
in remote country centres. I would not like to
estimatetheamountof joyand gratification this ten-
dency hascheated certain W ay-Back toilers of. Thus
in the rude young days of the Wyalong (N.S.W.)
diggings, when bullockies and teamsters scattered
themselves over the highways, a journey along this
route possessed considerable solace. So consistent
and extensive was the demand for beer among the
rushites that seldom a whip cracked over a team
which was not freighted to some extent with this
delightful fluid. At night around the boiling
billy these men of greenhide and eloquence would
draw the plugs and hold high wassail, drinking
1 gratuitous draughts of the golden stuff till the
| knock of dawn. Once, during the rainy season,
a solitary bullocky was stranded for a fortnight
on the dreary waste of bottomless pits and slush
[ which, at the time, was miscalled “ the road.” He
arrived at Wyalong with two empty “ eighteens,”
j an ullaged case of spirits, and the horrors. During
! thd big droughts I have seen beer ladled out to
. the horses. Bung was perfectly satisfied if 75 per
[ cent, of his cargo arrived ; trade was good, and a
( prosecution would have driven the teams off the
: road. No; light railways are far from being a
! blessing to all classes.
* * * *
“ Snell ” : When Gallon was doing a good
thing with his teams between Sale and the
scattered mining camps out towards Bright, he
was one day interviewed at his farm by a large,
raw, shaggy, red Irishman who wanted a job:
“ Can you drive bullocks ? ” asked Gallon. Mick
said he could drive anything from a tack to a
locomotive, but he was particularly expert at
driving bullocks. “Very well,” said the boss,
“ come in and have a feed ; then you can yoke up.
There’s the cattle, and that’s the jinker.” Mick
had his meal, and then went about his business as
a bull-compeller or cow-conductor. Fifteen
minutes later he put his head in at the kitchen
door. “ The shay is riddy, sor,” said he. “ ’N’
now where’ll I be dhrivin’ ut?” Gallon walked out,
cast his eyes over the team, and uttered a strange
cry. Then he seemed to go suddenly dippy. He
ran to the house, and called out the family and
reserves ; he ran to the fences, and hallooed for
the men down in the paddocks; and presently
Mick and his team were the centre of a band of
hilarious madmen. Mick, the bullocky, had col-
lected all the horse harness he could lay his hands
on, and harnessed two red working-bullocks to
the jinker, with collar and harness, saddle, bridle,
bit, breeching, traces and reins, and there he was,
standing on the jinker, the reins in one hand and
a buggy-whip in the other, saying “Gee !” to the
stunned cattle.
+ •**■«
Two recent news items in the Sydney
papers. A tip-dray, with horse attached, fell
over an embankment at the Lithgow railway devi-
ation works. The outfit fell 80ft. clear, on to a
tree, bounded off, and rolled 120 ft. further down a
gully. The horse got up uninjured. At Nowra
(N.S.W.) a local chemist kicked at a dog, missed
the dog, and fell back against the banister of a
staircase. He died from concussion of the brain.
“ Henry Phelthatt ” : The bushman who
is in Sydney for the first time mostly surveys
things with a philosophical eye, and uses his notes
of exclamation sparingly. I once took on the job
of showing a country relative round. The gran-
deur of the ocean, the density of the crowds, the
magnificence of the buildings, the vastness o'f the
shipping, evoked no expression of surprise. Evi-
dently they were all pretty much as he expected
they would be. The Art Gallery certainly did
astonish him somewhat. He was amazed “that
they didn’t get some of them Townancountey
pictures framed and hung up.” But he encoun-
tered his first real surprise at the corner of King
and George streets. A number of vehicles had
been brought to a standstill by the uplifted arm
of the law, to allow a tram to cross. He drew my
attention to the circumstance. “By eripes !
these Johns down here likes t’ show their flamin’
authority. I’d like t’ see our cove stoppin’ me
without a search warrant.” We went in for a
drink then. It was the hour when the pen is
usually cast on one side for the pig’s trotter. The
counter-lunchers were at work. My relative
drank his beer in silence ; but as soon as we left
the festival he expressed his disgust. “ Well ! ”
he said, “I thought Ben Rogers at Halfway run a
pretty rough place, but he does give yer knives
an’ forks t’ eat yer tucker with.”
TWIXT PLEASURE AND PAIN.
BILL: “ Y’r seem busy this mornin’, Liz. Wot-s
th’ joke?”
LIZ: “ We’re ’avin ' r' surprise party at our place
to-night, an’ I don’t know whether to buy
refreshments or stickin'-plaster.”
A Yictorian old-age pensioner reeled up
against a red-hot charity proposition the other week,
His boots were worn out, so were his finances ;
wherefore he interviewed an adjacent -J.P. and
asked for enough work to enable him to re-clothe
his feet. With much alacrity the J.P. put the
pensioner to work on the land —the J.P.’s land.
When the oldster had put in about the solidest
week’s work of his life-time he received from his
benefactor this order :
To Messrs. & Go.
Kindly supply bearer with pair of boots, and charge to
Charity Society.
, J.P., Chairman.
There are three things with cold feet—Faith,
Hope and Charity—and the coldest feet of all are
those inside the boots of Charity.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) roill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
G. Donovan : Don’t credit your theory that the
Dreadnought folly was “a plot on the part of British
capitalists ” to stop the Australian navy idea. (1) The
folly began in Maoriland, which has no local navy idea on
hand ; (2) the sensationalist who wrote the first article
on the subject in Australia, and induced the first foolish
paper to publish it, is well enough known. All he wanted
was to be paid for his article, and he wouldn’t know a
British capitalist if he met one ; (3) a craving for lime-
light and titles explains the rest... Bos : Bulletin didn’t
say that Windeyer was the only N.S.W. Judge who ever
stuffed his views down a jury’s throat. What it
did say was that, before Fling’s arrival, Win-
deyer was the only one who ever did it in a
wholesale fashion. And, anyway, it wasn’t talking
about Gibson or other Chairmen of Quarter Sessions.
Jenos Ducale : Can't print your verses, even though
you spell the lady’s name “ Aphrodyte ” and pronounce
her as if she rhymed with “ skite.” Expert Witness :
Pained to learn that you didn’t assist your mate in milk-
ing the crocodile, with similar fatal results. Fancy writ-
ing a humorous story like that with your dead mate’s
“gamesome” hand ! Exile : Boy deserved whatever
punishment he got for “ trying to appear funny.”. ..
H.E.R. : May use; but why will you expand sentences
into paragraphs and paragraphs into columns?....Mutifz:
Too wordy. We want meat without trimmings Celt:
All correct, doubtless ; but we haven’t room for descrip-
tions of newly-found caves. Experience has taught us
that all these caves are merely the same old cave in a
different place, so to speak....Ecq. : Painful tale of
theatrically'patriotic young house-agent Weka : A
good cause, but you don’t write it up with sufficient
terseness W.H.S. : Your pastoral poem, pinned •
together with sharpened chips, and entitled “ The Man
that Cuts the Scrub,” appeals to us. Two verses herewith :
I’m only just a bagman tramp, and on one summer’s day
I near Gilgandra chanced to camp upon the Castlereagh.
No matter where I chance to be, in sunshine, rain, or
mud,
The squatters tip their hats to me—l’m the Man that
Cuts the Scrub.
I refused ten situations while coming down the track,
And I passed some dried-up stations, but on them I
turned my back
Until I heard of Berida from Skelton at the pub ;
And that’s the reason why I’m here. I’m the Man that
Cuts the Scrub.
....Duncan S. : Omeo grievance is 17 times too inco-
herent for print F.J.N. : Temperance tract reverently
declined... .Snoze: Sentiment admirable, but this is
not a sentimental paper.... The Pest: “The Deformed
Idiot,” evidently written by himself. Just consider these
two lines:
Now, among those merry children is a boy of ten or so,
Never joining in their games in any way.
....W.S.: Your club is more of a boomerang—flies all
over the shop and hurts the unskilful wielder Derf
Gonmor : Arcadia, not Sydney, wasithe birthplace of the
pushite “ with a record,” who scorned gratuitous beer
and got run in for burglary—all for the love of a nurse-
girl to whom he had never spoken M.M.D. : Old joke
appropriately set; still it’s a very old joke E.J.B. :
No cockatoo that ever split the ear had such a long tail
as you’ve given to your brute Memoir: No use for
stories about butchers’ boys which stop just after the unin-
teresting preface. An exploring party has been set to
work on your jokes J.F.F. : Unexciting poetry about
lost politicians declined T.E.D. : “Euclid” horse
yarn pretty well answers the definition of a
line—length without breadth, or depth, or sub-
stance Sequar: Horrible story of the way you
murdered an aboriginal’s dog has been turned down....
Billabong: Your attempt failed. A contributing cause
was its long-windedness Shirley C. : German’s defini-
tion of a kangaroo did not appeal to us. The joke re
Jones, Brown, and the latter’s wife failed to pass the
Religious Editor....Amicus: Thanks; but we printed
Jolly’s views some weeks ago D. Caldwell: Pars
aren’t acknowledged. They either appear, or are
wickered in silence Streeton : Rhymed vindica-
tion of the indigenous sportsman is too ragged
E. \V.L. : Took 10 minutes off to try to make “ sacramental
path” agree with “half and half”; but it wouldn’t.
And there are others Ivea S. A.: “Wilful Waste” is
only intelligible in patches, and the patches are too far
apart O. Eastwood: You seem to work on a very
simple system. You get the most transparent paper you
can, and the dimmest ink and the worst pen, and then
you proceed to write in the most awful fist on record....
Perplexed: Impossible to resolve “ Whit-Hen-Aust ”
effort for the benefit of yourself and mate. Either you
understand it —to do which you require some acquaintance
with the writings of Whitman and Henley, and need to
have heard of Australia—or you don’t 0.A.8. : There
is no reasoning with the fanatic. One anonymous lunatic
wrote to a daily last week in protest against children
swinging on Sundays, and explained that on the Saw-
bath the true Christian “ would not even think
his own thoughts” Nomad: Counter lunch out-
cry was consumed by the ever-ravening basket
Hiwera : This paper’s sympathy with stories of sad child-
hood doesn’t always go the length of publishing them
L. 0.: Dishevelled poem about the good city girl, who
went to the country to enjoy the beauties of Nature and
came back with an unauthorised baby, is mournfully de-
clined... .Basket: Yes, your unmelodious “Cumanava-
drink ” has gone there. Also, we respectfully decline to
believe your boast that you have written much
worse..,.S.G.N. : Accounts of bushfires are mostly
“off,” unless they are found in an asbestos pocket-
book beside a little heap of ashes, which was
once the : enterprising writer T.H.O’D.: Epicurean
yearning for damper and corned beef will not be expressed
in this paper.
“ Mallacoota ” : A curious old couple out
in the back bush of Croajingulong (Vic.) some time
ago decided, as undertakers wore rare and life
uncertain, to provide their coffins against con-
tingencies. So they sent liberal measurements
to a Melbourne firm in the burying line and were
duly outfitted. The caskets were stowed away in
the storeroom. Then a near neighbor died and
the relict deferentially borrowed a coffin. Next a
tree fell on a selector in the backest bush and
another coffin was deferentially borrowed. The
coffinless two were compelled to repeat the
order, but trees kept falling on people, and after
buying many coffins they found themselves desti-
tute for about the sixth time. At last they
coldly and firmly bought four coffins, lent two of
them to thetwo most immediate deaders, and gently
announced that the last pair of wooden overcoats
must remain in stock. They have been deceived
so often that even if all Croajingulong falls down
dead they will lend no more.


'lbe
|ln hiatal fc+C
fV//
f «7
The In Seipso TVfe* Tere} A+qae
RotmrJa^
The *
Peftr
Refroohe ' "
The ’Me f l«s y J*E|
Trc
Uqui J
r !f
In iny
Jo fw^ny, k
! fj
U/e fo<Usj>ertyble
The Theocratic f*r|^
The Rgfrftl'a^
The Imf’ecc^ble
AUSTRALIAN PARTIES-VARIOUS BRANDS.


GAELI C
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
TO keep up a good appear-
ance you MUST have your
boots well polished, even
in winter time. Now there’s no
polish quite so good or quite
so economical as CHERRY
BLOSSOM, which gives a lovely
polish and also resists the damp.
You can get it in black or tan
from all leading dealers for 3d.
and 6d. Write us if your store-
keeper does not stock this king
of boot polishes.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The shades of eve were falling- fast,
When through an Alpine village passed
To snow peaks white and pure,
A youth who, o’er
The snow and ice,
A banner bore
With this advice;
“Try Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
Stomach
Troubles
The peculiar soothing effect of Angier’s
Emulsion upon the mucous membrane
of the digestive organs and its power
to arrest fermentation and check
bacterial growth make
it invaluable in the
treatment of stomach
and bowel disorders.
It is prescribed by the
medical profession for
chronic indigestion,
stomach and intestinal
catarrh, nervous dys-
pepsia, etc. It has cured
many obscure cases
after other remedies
had failed. For free
sample send4d.postage.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4/6.
ANGIER’S
Emulsion,
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
JThe Angler Chemical Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St,, Sydney^
tmm
end lunw
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The just-dead Tom Price, who was a stone-
mason, helped to build the Adelaide Parliament
House in which he afterwards sat for nearly four
years as Premier.
“B. Quick” was almost the first name
called out to the 1500 or so Broken Hill miners as
they turned up to get the 40 or so jobs that were
available when the lockout was over. B. Quick
didn’t answer, so another was called ; whereupon
a voice from the crowd advised the registrar—
“ Say, boss, better enter him up as ‘B. Quicker.’”
MIL WADE'S INTENTIONS.
Mr. Wade announced that he had no intention of kick-
ing away the ladder by which he had risen.
Mr. T. Humphries, Maoriland Surveyor-
General, retires after a record service of 52 years.
He has been banqueted at Wellington and pre-
sented with the usual purse of sovereigns by the
staff. A previous Surveyor-General of Maoriland
was Charles Whybrow Ligar, who in 1856 went to
Victoria, as Land Commissioner from Otago, to
import settlers. He sent few settlers, and he
didn’t even return to explain, but remained at
Melbourne and took office as Surveyor-General of
Victoria. That billet he held until 1869, when he
retired on pension, went to Texas as a rancher,
and died there in 1879. A daughter of Ligar
married George Collins Levey, an early proprietor
of the Melbourne Hebald.
“ Melb.” : Fred. Spurr, cousin of Mel. 8.,
has opened fire as pastor of the Collins-street
Baptist Church, in succession to little Sammy
Carey, who, like ex-Attorney-General Hughes,
is all cranium. Fred. Spurr
is a large man, like Charles
Warner, and a flamboy-
ant, dashing preacher.
He is already refreshed
with some newspaper
correspondence. A
writer alleged that
Carey had been an-
noyed by finding out
that the offer sent to
London, when he ac-
cepted, was £lOOO for a
first-rate man, where-
as they only paid
him £BOO. That is
to say, he had
been rated as
second-class.
The writer put
forward a sup-
position that
Spurr gets more
than Carey ; where-
up o n Chief - Deacon
Blake writes that Spurr
gets exactly the same as
Carey did when he left. It
transpires, however, that
when biz was bad, Carey had
offered to take £6OO instead of
£BOO, but whether this change
was effected is not made evi-
dent. So the quidnuncs do not
know even now whether Spurr
gets £BOO or only £6OO.
In the first four weeks of
the English flat-racing season,
young Frank Wootton, the
Australian boy jockey, had
ridden in 89 races and won
21 of them. No other jockey
had then ridden 10 winners,
so the little fellow got well
away from the starting gate.
He had been second 18
times, third nine times,
and un-
placed in
41 races.
He rides
regularly
for the
wealthiest,
most cos-
mopolitan
list of pat-
rons ever a
fashionable
RICHARD DENIS MEAGHER ,
who has been asking the N.S.W.
Full Court to make him a Gentle-
man One again.
jockey could boast. Lord Derby, of Eng-
land ; H. Payne Whitney, American multi-
millionaire; Sol Joel, of S’Africa, Park Lane
and Jerusalem ; Robinson and Clark, once of
Australia; and “Lvtham,” a wealthy news-
paper owner, are all willing to give him first
pick of mounts. The urchin can still ride 6st. 71b.,
will accept a retainer from nobody, and, with the
exception of Melba, is probably the most-highly-
paid Australian who snatches a crust in foreign
parts. “And only to think,’’ his proud mother
says, “ that I used to bath him with my own
hands not a year ago.”
Eureka (Vic.) veterans are as numerous as
Balaklava heroes, and, though always dying off,
never die out.. The latest to go is Jim Heffernan,’
aged 81. He assisted at the big demonstration at
Bendigo when the miners burnt their licenses,
and he fought in the Eureka stockade. He was
long a Kyneton identity, and kept a pub.
News arrives of the probable advent, this
month or next, of the much-boomed Foster
Eraser, of “Real Siberia,” “ Canada As It Is,”
etc., to absorb the usual intimate features of this
country from the train window and the city pubs.
Still he will make a readable book wherever he
gets his stuff from.
Thomas Wills, brother of William John,
of the Bourke and Wills expedition, died recently
at Ballarat. He used to be in the Railway Service,
but became a pensioner in 1896. The father, Dr.
Wills, was in Melbourne when the disastrous
results of the expedition were made known ; and
for weeks afterwards he ran about declaring
that his son had been “ murdered.” Parliament,
later on, voted him a sum of money to allay his
grief.
The case of late Premier Tom Price, who
worked as a mason on the new Parliament Houses
in Adelaide, recalls two similar experiences.
Henry Broadhurst, often described as the first
Labor member of the House of Commons, worked
as a stonemason on the new Houses of Parlia-
ment, Westminster ; and Charles Jardine Don,
the first workingman member in any Australian
Parliament, was a stonemason on the Houses of
Parliament, Melbourne. Don actually chipped
bluestone in the forenoon in front of the House,
and in the afternoon went'inside and sat in “ the
corner” of the Opposition Bench.
The funeral of Premier Tom Price was the
longest ever seen in S. Australia. Scores of the
vehicles in the procession had not reached the
cemetery, which was about three miles from the
house, when the service at the grave was com-
pleted. When Kingston was buried, the rain
poured down in torrents, and Deakin stood alone
at the head of the grave with the water dripping
from him in streams. Rain also fell as Price’s
coffin was lowered into the earth, but hundreds of
people stood in a serried throng, heedless of the
downpour.
“Paddy” Glynn, the Attorney-General
in the new Commonwealth Government, has a
whole seven days of Ministerial experience
behind him; he was Attorney-General in Solo-
mon’s sudden Ministry that lasted in S. Aus.
from Dec. Ito Dec. 8, 1899. Yet, though he has
had only that brief spell of office in his 21 years
of politics, “Paddy” is really a brilliant
authority on many things. Among other matters
he probably knows more ways of falling off a horse
than any other five men in the House. He was
about the most reckless, daring follower of the
hounds that S. Aus. ever knew ; and there
was a time when quite a lot of Adelaide couldn’t
recognise him if he wasn’t wearing either splints
or sticking-plaster.
Sydney University has appointed a woman
student as Assistant Demonstrator in Anatomy.
The post is not particularly important, but the
significant fact is that the Medical School has
voluntarily appointed a woman to anything. It
isn’t so long ago that a distinguished woman
graduate was jockeyed by the University people
out of the position of resident doctor at Prince
Alfred Hospital solely on account of her sex.
Treasurer Twaddell has now accomplished
a record reign at the N.S.W. Treasury. He began
sending I 0 U’s to England in April, 1901. He
stuck to the job when his Ministry succeeded
See’s, followed it up under Carruthers, and still
gloats over the multitude of his 10 IT’s under
Wade. He has just finished his fifth year, whereas
even G. H. Reid, overcome with shame, went
under the table after 4 years 11 months and lday.
Morris Asher, who arrived in Sydney in
1838 and was Oom Bill Lyne’s earliest predecessor
in the representation of the Hume in Parliament,
has just completed his 91st year, and is still well.
Not many members remain of the 1859 Parliament
in which Asher sat. Those known are Morris
Asher, Samuel Lyons, E. M. Sayers (all of
Sydney), F. A. Cooper (Melbourne) and L. 11.
Bay ley (England.)
Four or five years ago, “ Footy ” Pearce,
champion sculler of Australia by his defeat of Ben
Thoroughgood, was a candidate for a billet in the
Sydney Water Police, and was rejected because
he was not able to row a boat well enough to
satisfy Mr. Garvin’s experts. This brings to mind
the case of champion wrestler George Ilacken-
schmidt, who. when he went up to fulfil his period
of service in the Russian Army, was rejected as
“physically unfit for military service.”
“Wang” : Mention is made (B. 20/'5/ ! 09)
of a man in Queensland who is the happy hither
of 20 nippers, while a brother of his counts 11
around his table at dinner time. Not too bad ;
but two sisters in a Gippsland (Vic.) township
beat that record. Quite recently (one has to be
careful in a case of this sort) there were 21 in
No. l’s family, and 19 in No. 2’s ; and all but one
child were living.
Constantine Charles Henry Phipps, Mar-
quis of Normanby, the reverend son of the marquis
who was Governor in three Australasian colonies,
is school-mastering in England, having converted
Mulgrave Castle, in Yorkshire, the old home of
the family, into a boarding-school. The Nor-
manbys having no fortune, he teaches for profit
as well as for pleasure. He has no living son ;so
the heir at present to the family honors is George
Alfred Constantine Phipps, whose father was
farming in Queensland some years ago.
Died, the other day, a man who pursued
one of life’s unusual occupations and was beloved
of many newspaper reporters. This was Harry
de Frazer, night signalmaster at Sydney Heads.
De Frazer led an ad venturous youth in a whaling
boat, but ever since his manhood he had been one
of the sentinels at Sydney’s gates. He was at
diffe rent times in the pilot steamer, on the old
Noah’s Ark styled the “ Sow and Pigs lightship,”
and coxswain of the lifeboat crew, and always he
lived closer to death than most men. Both he and
his fellow-signalman were Portuguese, with anight
vision like cats. They could make out a ship or a
steamer miles off, where others could only glimpse
a will-o’-the-wisp light dancing in the darkness.
On this work, a man gets to know a vessel by her
peculiar disarrangement of lights as easily as she
could be recognised in broad day. He had plenty
of yarns, and his eloquence on the miserly lighting
of certain vessels would have blistered the ears of
their owners had they been near enough.
A recent London paper has been able to
publish the photograph of one Bernardo Baglioni,
a Dago cook-shop keeper, whose King has just
made him a knight. The newly-
ennobled one keeps the H6tel
d’ltalie, Soho. The Soho
restaurant is mostly a poor
sort of establishment where
indigent folk feed sparely on
table d’hdte dinners costing not
more than Is. 6d. per head.
Once Soho was fashionable.
To-day it is a dingy backwater
into which drift anarchists,
unemployed waiters, expatri-
ated continental magsmen, and
down-at-heeis foreigners gener-
ally. Yet its cook-shop keeper
can evidently command an
Italian knighthood. There is
some consolation in this, after
all —some consolation in know-
ing that, anyhow, there is one
country where knighthoods
are cheaper even than they are
in Australia.
Concerning the new Ministers :
Bigjohn Forrest is the patriarch of the new Federal
Ministry, and he is onl}' 62. Foxton is two years his
junior. Deakin and Best were born within a few weeks
of one another in the'same Melbourne suburb—Fitzroy—
in 1856. Groom is, as usual, the infant of the crowd ; he
is 42. Deakin, Fuller, Glynn, Quick, Groom, Best, and
Foxton are all lawyers ; in fact, the new Ministers are all
lawyers except Forrest, Millen, and Cook, and even
Forrest is an LL. D., while Millen practised for years
before Land Boards and Appeal Courts. Most of the lot
have mixed journalism with the law or whatever else they
have snatched a crust at. Deakin was for years an Age
man ; so was Quick, though he started on the Inky Way
in Bendigo; Glynn, while struggling to make a practice
in S. Aus., used barrels of ink w'riting for the Register
and country papers; Groom was almost born in the
Toowoomba (Q.) Chronicle office ; and Millen ran a paper
at Bourke (N.S. W.).
From the Far West:—
G. Darlington Simpson, who has been connected with
Murchison (W.A.) mining cos. for 14 years, and has lately
been cutting a figure before the London Official Receiver,
was one of the sights of the goldfield in its early days.
He made his appearance at Cue as the representative of a
gorgeous syndicate, and got the option of several alleged
mines. He was short and podgy and wore an eyeglass,
likewise a bald pate, which he carried about uncovered in
the fiercest sun. His obvious desire was to cultivate a
bronzed complexion, so as to impress Bull investors on
his return. A lanky youth and a tame cockatoo chained
to his wrist were his inseparable companions, and
thirsty dryblowers would stop midway in their
long beers to wonder at the strange spectacle.
Still he managed to get hold of pretty well all the
claims at “The Patch” (Peak Hill). He returned to
England, and on the strength of a collection of speci-
mens the Peak Hill Gold Mines were floated for £250,000,
and shares went up to £8 in a few bounds. Gerard
Smith, then Governor of Westralia, made a sort of royal
progress to the mine and partook of a Gargantuan feed,
at which the plates were of beaten gold. From Peak
Hill the crowd went across country to Kalgoorlie, and to
this day its track is marked by champagne and soda
water bottles, pdte de foie gras and asparagus tins. But
the bottom soon fell out of Peak Hill, and Darlington
Simpson is nowadays battling most of the time with
official receivers and such-like unpleasant people.
Present ages of ex-Governors of New
South Wales (still living): Loftus, 92 ; Belmore,
74; Carrington, 66; Rawson, 66; Jersey, 64;
Beauchamp, 37. The ethereal Chelmsford, who
isn’t ex-, is 41.
It is stated on what looks like the best
authority that the three little sons of the late
Grace Jennings Carmichael, a poetical contributor
to the Australasian and the Argus, are inmates
of a London workhouse, their mother having died
in London in deep poverty. Mrs. Vivienne—she
who wrote ‘’Sunny South Australia”—is trying
to start a shilling subscription so that the children
may be lifted out of their dreary surroundings and
educated. The eldest boy was born in Adelaide.
Some alterations to an edifice in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, lately uncovered a relic in the
shape of a board bearing the faded legend, “69
Joseph’s.” The fragment of timber was accused
of being the last remaining portion of a shop
which attained some lustre in the infant ’fifties.
The place belonged to Israel Joseph, who sold
cabbage-tree hats and other apparel. When he
died, his store was carried on by his relict and her
daughter, a well-remembered pair of the keenest
“ bithneth ” women Melbourne ever knew. There
were sons also of the household; one of them
later grew to be bookmaker Alf Joseph, known a
quarter of a century ago as “the Sandhurst
Leviathan.”
The Hunter River (N.S.W.) municipal
drain seems to be a healthy thing to look after.
Thomas Hughes, who recently celebrated his 81st
birthday, has been for 35 years West Maitland’s
town clerk. He is supposed to be the oldest per-
son living who was born at Newcastle, near by:
he arrived there in 1828. But even that record in
clerking is beaten by C. Poppenhagen, lately of
Singleton, a step or two further up the line. Ap-
pointed local council clerk in 1870, he only retired
in 1908, after 38 years’ service.
Among the biggest landowners in S.A.—
according to the land-tax register, which gives the
unimproved value of their holdings—are Trus-
tees of the late J. H. Angas, £200,388; Canowie
Pastoral Company, £205,374; South Australian
Company, £620,692; Perceval John Browne,
£193,922; Robertson Bros., £150,882; H. H.
Dutton, £116,938; Keith Bowman, £90,858;
Arthur Scott Brown, £108,674; W. J. T. Clarke
(cousin of Rupert), £105,248. The richest land-
holder among the legislators of the State is
George Riddoch, M.L.C., who is set down as
worth £80,488. The Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel holds land values to the extent of
£62,218; and A. G. Downer, brother of ex-Senator
Downer, K.C., is set down at £63,000.
Recently passed out, at Fremantle (W.A.),
Elias Solomon, seven times mayor of the port,
and its first representative in the Federal Parlia-
ment. Old Sol narrowly escaped reaching 70—
missed it by four months only—and finished a
successful but colorless career as president of
the Jewish community, chairman of a cemetery
committee, and vice-president of several charitable
institutions. His father was Moses Solomon, who
emigrated with his family from London to Ade-
laide and thence to Sydney as far back as 1840.
Father Solomon died in 1849 and young Sol went
across to his paternal uncle, Judah Moss, in Ade-
laide, where he got a billet as auctioneer’s clerk.
Then he sailed as supercargo on a French vessel
to Mauritius, and successfully negotiated the
purchase of a shipment of sugar, after which he
went over to Westralia. There he joined a Jewish
wine and spirit firm, and amassed shekels ; where-
upon he bought real estate wisely and well, and
rarely re-built a house until it very badly needed it.
THE FATMANS LITANY.
CHOSEN (of all the Chosen, chanting): “ From
Trades Unions, from the Labor party, from
the lean years, deliver us, O Lord! In our
search for coin, at the Arbitration Court, in
developing Fat, be with us, O Lord!”
CHORUS : "Amen !”
A MINISTER FOR ROME AFFAIRS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the event of a coalition Government being formed, I
expect to become Minister for Rome Affairs.— Humored
statement by Bill Wilks.
Rome, turn thy back on all thy bad, abysmal,
Old, haunting wiles and ancient, dreadful ways ;
For, lo ! here speeds the scavenger most dismal
To haul thee forth to doom in many drays !
“ Yea, thy long- rags and flummery,”
Shouts William, “ and thy mummery
Shall be consumed in one tremendous blaze ! ”
Hear Wilks his vow (lie’s good, methinks, at vowing)
To disregard all shrieks and cries and prayers ;
Comes Bill, the swift and summary—
Pat Moran, quail! Get busy with kow-towing
Unto the Minister for Rome Affairs !
Such paltry souls—such men of little stature—
The flames of Smithfield still as beacons see ;
And so they desecrate our Legislature
With talk of things as dead as dead can be !
With speeches most injurious,
They rave like fantods furious
And resurrect the corpse of Historee !
We know how Alva ruled long since in Flanders,
And how Elizabeth searched Papist’s lairs.
Will some inventor curious
Please fix at once some patent mind-expanders
To fit the Minister for Rome Affairs?
Have Carr and Moran piled the sticks and shavings
Around the lofty hero of Balmain?
The land is sick of Wilks and all his ravings—
Let dead men in their ancient tombs remain !
There’s Work in an 3' quantity
For Wilks—he doesn’t want it ! He
Would rather prate of dead men’s deeds in Spain !
His back he turns on all the needs Australian—
The land may rot for all Wilks knows or cares ;
’Tis strange a man should vaunt it—he
Perturbs his mind o’er things obscure and alien,
Our precious Minister for Rome Affairs !
He turns his back on all the work that’s waiting—
What odds to him what wage the sweater pays ?
And so the Papist-folk their goods are freighting—
They drag them here in many ocean-drays 1
Whilst William shrieks, the foreigner
Is sending to the coroner
The industries that Protestants would raise !
The Yellow Pup with feelings sour and acrid
May bay the moon—yet plain this Fact uprears:
Bavarian and Lorrainer—
And all such foreign Papist-folk—are sacred
Unto the Minister for Rome Affairs !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


m
jf
1/Z A'
%
<r
' jr • M',1 w ,
1 V '\
«^r
ia£»
=3*
mi
*r
0~
<V
'jsf
mm
ar
&
SrM
fw
m
■■;-•' tfj
;.i.v
&**
ti?*
-7^
fegff
?>
m
ij
■yMMM
mmm
ar-\
WmA:i
ffiy
'>£k&\ \ ft.
«fa?i
timib- •^skmk
$■
j&J*
n l z?H V . . '}M&Md?&' r A
rittCivssri ’.jM&mtl
l..;VvK
i
•/**»
rv.*r>>* .o-J^
-il
30
.-•isM' 1 '*
34
SC*i
fig
(5»s5
i s
FI
s$a
$
s*«
3«P
SIS
5
Mtm
5>s*
K
KJffl
>'&
s7-
y?if>
■.■■
/rasa
?
*g(S
irs*
IK
4?
74
-5£
Sef
0
s-fyy W /M' ! UfyP*!8&%9Pi
\,4
i/jf >A
M
.-?• V-7
|
'SaC
r A m
rVtt
.1
>rAtr
.2.7-' - « ,y
M : ■<$■■■?
■>Trf
3k
r.m 1
nr
m
Zs**
y k
mi
| ,<f -i&
■jAf A
MpjP. m
C4tn^lSi
.-a?
w/
4*g
M
■
■^BSfc
V^j^-
mm
ur
wm
mm 'i
Wm m
fZ
%m
§5
i i
B
■
7^'«, y fV('
H 1 !
"«t,
3“^"
mK
m
//
V u
m
f , &
U? -
■H
v£^
/ 3. "«f
/i
fcV
y
.s
y--—^
They all smoke “VICE-REGAL.
If you don’t, try it!
99


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT 'SJjy.rsa
Boyal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
will find them all illustrated and priced in Cameron
machinery. Addresses: —
a Winding- Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an Air
Compressor dr a Rock Drill, a Concentrating
——— Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you
& Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
CAMERON * SUTHERLAND,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Street, BALLARAT•
and Pall Mall, BENDIGO. ’
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
-The current month will end the financial year
of all the States. Mostly they will show moderately good
figures ; but as they have been borrowings heavily during
the year, and, in some cases, using' loan money to pay for
things that should be paid for out of revenue, the figures
will be worth a sniff or two. On the eleven months to
the end of May, N.S. W. shows £541,996 less revenue than
it did at the same date in 1908, in spite of business under-
takings (railways, etc.) having produced £159,735 more.
The ordinary expenditure has increased £752,723 ; so the
position is £1,294,719 worse than it was 12 months ago.
The figures are :
Revenue £12,375,291
Expenditure .. .. 11,974,421
Surplus £400,870
But £1,290,000 has also been transferred from revenue to
the Works and Closer Settlement Funds ; and if this
is treated as ordinary outgoings, the surplus is turned
into a deficit of £889,130. Though some of the payments
from these Funds may be regarded as capital
expenditure, three things have to be set against
it: (1) Repairs and renewals are also paid for out of
the Works Fund, and that certainly isn’t capital expendi-
ture ; (2) while the amount spent on the repurchase of
lands may be capital expenditure, the interest, etc.,
received in connection with the subdivision sales is appa-
rently turned into revenue account, so if receipts
are treated as ordinary revenue, outgoings ought to
be treated as ordinary expenditure ; (3) land-sale
money is still treated as ordinary revenue. The
State’s expenditure of loan money in the 11 months
has totalled £2,799,463, which exceeds the record for the
first 11 months of the previous year by a disgraceful
£760,389.
The Victorian revenue has not slumped quite so
badly, though it is £205,198 short of what it was at the
end of May, 1908. Both have, of course, suffered from
the reduction in the Commonwealth refunds—a reduc-
tion that every State Treasurer must have fore-
seen. While, however, Victoria did not cut down
its taxation on account of the temporary flush-
ness, N. S. Wales struck off stamp and other duties,
reduced the income tax, and laid up trouble for itself by
sweeping reductions in the railway rates. The Victorian
expenditure figures are not available. Queensland has
had a revenue of £4,273,779, as against £4,122,329
in the same 11-12ths of last year ; but the ex-
penditure has moved along much more rapidly—from
£3,185,199 to £3,619,702. So in 190 S the excess of revenue
over expenditure was £937,129, while this year it is only
£654,077 ; and there is a bigger interest bill to provide
for. Queensland may escape a deficit, but it will be a
tight squeeze. Loan expenditure has also increased from
£934,887 to £1,090,001 ; and that, of course, doesn’t take
into account the amount which is being spent on
privately-built railways that the State will be called upon
to take over in the future. Westralia for Mav alone
shows a deficit of £49,786, making the total'trouble for
the year, so far, £174,352—a ghastly record of drift and
financial incapacity and cowardice. South Aus. does not
publish monthly figures ; and Tasmania mentions only its
revenue (£75,932 for the month), which shows little
difference from last year’s.
* * * *
One of the little noticed evidences of how
Maoriland has outrun the bobby is its bank ad-
vances. In the Commonwealth the advances made by
the banks to borrowers are £15,900,000 less than the
amount they have received as deposits, w'hich gives a
wide margin for safety. In Maoriland the banks’
advances are £1,250,000 greater than their deposits. That
means that every penny of the deposits received in
Maoriland has been lent out, and also that Australian
deposit money has been sent over by the banks to their
Maoriland branches to be lent out there. That is one of
the foreign debts which don’t appear on the surface of
things, but it is a debt none the less.
* * * *
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Limited, the
wool people:—
Earn- Interest paid on Written Re-
Mar., ings. Debenture Stocks, etc. off. serves.
£ £ £
1898 60,257 Astock4p.c.= 59,656 601 Nil
1599 60,102 A stock 4 p.c. *, 59,656 446 Nil
1900 65,338 A stock 4 p.c. ~ 59,565 5,773 Nil
Added to
(Net.) Reserves. £
1901 69,810 {b ftockljxc!”} 6o ’ 3sl 3 ’ 459 3 > 459
1902 83,897 All stock 4 p.c! ” 82,398 1,499 4,958
1903 79,136 'All stock 4 p.c. „ 78,771 365 5,323
1904 84,723 All stock 4 p.c. „ 78,089 6,634 .11,957
1905 95,459 All stock 4 p.c. ~ 78,023 17,436 29,393
f A stock 4 p.c. „ I or mvl
1906 181,817 ■{ B stock 5 p.c. „ \ 08,765 98,158
p.c. div. ~ 27,950 f
1 A stock 4 p.c.,, 46,8971
1907 220,675 ■{ B stock 5 p.c. „ . 36,385 V 81,493 179,651
(10 p.c. div. „ 55,900 J
i A stock 4 p.c. „ 43,2861
1908 160,147 7 B stock 5 p.c. „ 36,079 ]- 24,882 204,533
(10’p.c. div. ~ 55,900 J
l A stock 4 p.c.,, 42,7241
1909 162,390 ■{ B stock 5 p.c. „ 35,716 V 12,079 216,612
(12 6-7 p.c. div.,, 71,871 J
But, as mentioned above, the earnings for some years past
are shown net; that is to say, less deductions to cover de-
preciation, etc., and these deductions vary greatly in
amount: —
1903 £3,190 1907 .. .. £36,678
1904 3,134 1908 .. .. 28,562
1905 3,073 1909 .. .. 2,882
1906 38,043
Probably other provision is made for the depreciation of
individual properties for which separate accounts are
kept. Thus among the assets are these items
Advances on wool, etc., and properties
at valuation £1,053,608
Properties and stock, at valuation .. 783,662
It is obvious that a very great deal depends on these valu-
ations. Thus, if they were valued at only 2 per cent,
more this year than they were last, it would add over
£36,000 to the apparent profits ; or, on the other hand, if
the management struck off an average of 2 per cent., it
would bite as much off the head of the apparent profits.
And the valuation of assets of this sort is a very uncer-
tain business.
Sometimes, moreover, the estimates have
turned out very wide of the mark—so wide that
some people have alleged that they must have
been designed badly on purpose. For example, no
later than 1901 two-fifths of the “ B ” debenture stock,
which had been issued to creditors, was written off ; yet
so soon as this—within eight years—the shareholders who
thus got rid of a very large slice of debt receive a dividend
of 10 per cent, with a bonus of Is. per share, equal in all
to £l2 17s. Id. per cent. The only satisfaction “B” de-
benture-holders can get for the loss of so big a slice of
their principal is that they receive 5 per cent, instead of
4 per cent, interest ; the arrangement was that,
if and when the shareholders got more than
3 per cent., the “B ’’ holders were to have an extra
1 per cent. There were, however, several reconstructions
and changes before that. The first was in 1893, when
£225,000 of capital was written off; in place of
45,000 £lO shares, 900,000 of £4 155., paid to 55., were
issued. Many old shareholders, evidently fearin" the
£4 10s. liability, declined to apply ; and their rights died
a sudden death. Had they been able to look only a
couple of years ahead they would have seen those who
did take up the shares being allowed to exchange them
for fully-paid pref. shares of £2 15s. on payment of £2 10s.
Those who didn’t choose to take the pref. shares were
allowed to retain their old shares paid to ss. ; but in the
next reconstruction these last were passed right out, and
the 555. pref. shares were written down to 85s. By the
various processes of weeding out, the 900,000 shares have
been reduced to 319,426. As things turn out, it has
been very fine for those who knew enough to pay up
and stay in. The rest, no doubt, feel differently about it
all.
Certainly, one can’t tell what really is written
off the assets : it may be too much, or it may be too little ;
it may be just enough, or it may be nothing at all. But,
assuming that it is just enough, then the amount put by
during the past two years is very small considering the
risks of the business, and the relative sizes of the capital
and the debts ; and the amount shown in the table is to
be reduced still further by a 10 per cent, bonus
to be paid out of the past year’s profits to
the staff. The debenture debt alone is £1,778,477;
other debt amounts to £56,986. The public has in all
about £2 6s. of money in the business for every £1 that
belongs to the shareholders ; in other words, £1 of the
shareholders’ money has to safeguard £3 6s. worth of
securities—or, at least, that is the theory of the business,
though in this case the public has hitherto suffered along
with the shareholders. Further, the nature of the assets
—the chief items were mentioned above —has to be taken
into account. No doubt these assets may be written
down very severely, thus establishing what really amounts
to an internal reserve ; but there is no evidence of it.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd. :
Added
Provided to
Ex- for De- Insurance
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. preciation. Fund.
1898 .. £412,898 £220,073 £79,996 £112,829
1899 .. 409,744 209,907 75,832 124,005
1900 .. 406,428 218,526 77,735 £67,969 42,198
1901 .. 412,816 226,783 79,577 106,456
1902.. 429,263 226.512 81,002 121 749
1903 .. 438,825 236,874 87,731 114,220
1904 .. 454,758 248,313 95,175 111,270
1905 .. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1906 .. 466,326 335,946 104,564 25,816
1907 .. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
1908 .. 488,932 321,453 98,473 69,006
There has really been a much greater improvement in
this society during the past year than one would judge
from those figures. In 1907 the management passed into
what to a great extent were new hands ; and the new
hands have been busy lately with a much-needed broom.
Things had got into a pretty bad way. There was sup-
posed to be a considerable Investment Fluctuation Fund ;
but it had been obvious for many years that the whole of
it, and probably a good deal more, could be written off
without reducing the book values of assets to market
values. The result of this was that the figures in the
balance-sheet were inflated, and consequently the interest
return, calculated on the alleged funds, was wretchedly
small.
The new management has got rid of the whole
Investment Fluctuation Fund at one sweep of the broom.
This shows the operations on the fund for some few years
past
Investment Fluctuation Fund.
Written Written.
Off. Balance. Off. Balance.
( 396 'l 1904 ..£5,855 ..£73,858
1899 -{Added £102,776 f 8,809 4
l 67,969 ) 1905 { Added - 115,049
1900 .. 3,443 .. 99,333 50,000 J
1901 .. 2,577. .. 96,756 1906 ..34,330 .. 80,719
1902 .. 10,789 .. 85,967 1907 .. 8,157 .. 72 562
1903 .. 6,254 .. 79,713 1908 .. 72,562 .. Nil
So, while there has been an increase of £69,006 in the
Insurance Fund for the past year, the sweeping away of
the other fund produces this result: —
Added to Insurance Fund .. .. .. £69,006
Investment Fund wiped out .. .. 72,562
Net reduction of funds .. .. £3,556
In the aggregate the result is as follows :
Total funds December 31, 1907 .. £3,077,126
Net reduction as above .. .. .. 3,’556
Funds at December 31, 1908 .. £3,073,570
The assets were not actually affected by the writing-off of
the Investment Fund. There wasn’t a single property
less on the books. And the rent or interest received
wasn't reduced by one penny either. But by the reduc-
tion of the book value the interest return Calculated on the
total book value was, of course, increased ; the society, in
other words, admits having less principal than it pre-
viously pretended to have. Consequently an improve-
ment shows up in the last line of the next comparison
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1901 .. £3 17 11 percent. 1905 .. £3 17 11 percent
1902 ... 3 19 4 „ 1906 .. 3 18 1
1903 .. 319 8 „ 1907 .. 316 9
1904 ..4 1 4 „ 1908 ..4 1 1
That is a lot better. But it is still far from good enough,
especially as only 9'3 per cent, of the total assets consist
of “ Government and other debentures ” ; and it is highly
probable that the assets are still over-valued. The
trouble lies largely in the excessive proportion of freehold
and leasehold property; though no doubt written
down largely when the Investment Fund disap-
peared, this class of asset still represents 29T per
cent, of the total. In years to come there may
be a recovery in , the value of many of these
properties ; indeed, there has no doubt been a good re-
covery in the past four or five years. But, however com-
forting that may be for policy-holders, a balance-sheet
ought not to be based on such suppositions ; it purports
to deal with the actualities of the present, and not the
probabilities of the future. It may therefore reasonably be
expected that every opportunity will be taken to transfer
profits to a re-created Investment Fund, tobesubsequently
disposed of as the £72,562 has been during tlje past year.
This, of course, will for the moment reduce the amount
available for bonuses ; but it will strengthen the founda-
tions of the business, and allow the newer policy-holders
to by and bye get the full bonuses to which they are
entitled.
Meantime other changes are being made, from
which policy-holders must benefit in the ordinary course.
Mainly through reorganisation the excessive expenses are
being cut down :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1899 .. £lB 10 1 per cent. 1904 .. £2O 18 7 per cent.
1900 .. 19 2 6 „ 1905 .. 21 17 10
1901.. 19 5 6 „ 1906.. 22 8 8
1902.. 18 17 5 „ 1907.. 22 3 2
1903.. 19 19 10 „ 1908.. 20 210
That, nevertheless, is still high ; and the cost of new
business is also high. Assuming that the old or renewal-
premium-business costs 7 per cent. and the new annuity
business 3 per cent., then last year it cost £76,482 to
obtain £45,151 in new premiums. That is, the new-
business cost was 158‘8 per cent. For the previous year
on the same basis the new-business cost was 155 7 per
cent. In spite of the changes which have been made, and
which ought to give better results presently, there has
not, therefore, been anything to be satisfied with so far.
Not until the new-business cost, calculated on the basis
adopted above, has been got down to very little above
100 p.c. will it be possible to say that things are satisfac-
tory. Unfortunately, this society went in for a tremend-
ous diffusion of energy, and spread itself all over S’Africa,
among other places. It probably can’t altogether undo
what it has done in that way ; but apparently it is getting
rid of a lot of the expensive superfluities. Further, it is
going into the Industrial business; and, though that can
easily be overdone in comparatively sparsely populated
countries like Australia and S’Africa, with good manage-
ment it should be a valuable feeder to the Ordinary
department. Altogether, the society shows so many
changes which either are for the better, or promise to be
for the better, that it deserves more words of encourage-
ment than it has done for a long: while.
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and Agency
Co. of Haoriland (Dunedin):—
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1900 .. £1943 12£ per cent. =£lol3 £927 £2,073
1901 .. 1585 12£ „ „ 1016 569 2,642
1902 .. 1799 12b „ ~ 1016 783 3,425
1903 .. 1359 12| „ „ 1016 343 3,768
1904 .. 2057 12J „ „ 1016 1041 4,809
Premiums on new share issue .. 1332 6,141
1905 .. 2302 12J per cent. = , 1093 1209 7,350
1906 .. 2094 12 \ ~ ~ 1172 922 8,272
1907 .. 1817 12J- „ „ 1172 645 8,917
1908 .. 2205 12| „ „ 1172 1033 9,950
1909 .. 2516 12| „ ~ 1172 1344 11,294
This co. besides being a trustee co., “ has a seat on the
Dunedin Stock Exchange, and carries out stock and share-
broking of every description.” Even allowing that it
only does a commission business, the combination of
trustee co. and sharebroker seems highly undesirable.
For a testator has to consider not merely what the co.
may do to-day, but what it may do 20 or 30 years hence ;
and the sharebroking part of the business may not be
as carefully conducted then as no doubt it is now.
Anyway, the funds of a trustee co. ought to be wholly
available for the protection of those interested in the
trusts ; and they can’t be while they have also to stand the
ordinary risks of sharebroking. Even if a broker sticks to
commission business, he has to take large responsibilities.
Under the common rules of the business, if he buys a stock
for a client, and doesn’t at once declare who his client is—
and he very rarely does that—he must take that stock
whether his client can pay for it or not. For all practical
purposes he is the buyer. This isn’t the sort of business
to mix with that of a trustee. Otherwise the position
varies from middling to excellent. There are liabilities
totalling £11,966, which is only middling, seeing that the
paid capital is only £9375 ; and £14,830 of its own (or the
other people’s) money is out on mortgage. But the reserves
are large (they exceed the capital); the annual additions
to reserves are substantial; and from the client’s point of
view there is further comfort in the fact that, while only
7s. 6d. per share has been paid up, another £3 17s. 6d.
may be called. The business last year showed the hand-
some return of £l3 os. sd. on capital and reserves
combined.
* « * *
The Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne):—
Writ- Nominal
ten To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1900 .. £4035 If p.c. =£562 £1336 £2137 £15,750
1901 .. 4608 3 ~ „ 927 3681 19,431
1902 .. 7255 3 „ ~ 927 6328 25,759
Loss.
1903 .. 629 Nil 25,130
Profit.
1904 .. 2061 Nil 2061 27,191
1905 .. 2018 Nil 2018 29,209
1906.. 3511 2f p.c. = 843 2668 31,877
1907 .. 1323 Nil 1323 33,200
1908.. 3021 2f p.c. = 843 2178 35,378
1909 .. 2044 2} ~ ~ 843 1201 36,579
As mentioned above, the reserves are not real. Thus
during the past year £1222 of the profit Was trans-
ferred to the Replacement and Reparation Fund,
which is included with the reserves ; and £559, spent on
“repairs, replacements, and additions,” was added to the
book value of the property. In other words, as one soup-
plate gets broken another is bought, and the price of
the two figures in the balance-sheet—which is absurd.
The price of the broken crockery ought obviously to be
cut off the profits. If the £.1222. mentioned above is
taken as representing depreciation, then the year’s net
profit was £822, which wasn’t enough to pay the divi-
dend. A cleaning-up is badly needed, after which the
figures might be presented in such a way that share-
holders and investors might know for certain what they
really do mean. The freehold is down for £103,290;
against that there is a tough mortgage of £58,500.
Ten years ago it was £70,000; the undivided
profit is being used to reduce the burden.
Even now the interest bill is £2375 a year;
and the mortgagee calls for his little lot whether the
hotel “guest ”is plentiful or not. Hence the frequency
with which “ Nil ” appears in the dividend column in the
foregoing table. Still, things are improving, for, owing
to the reduction of the debt, shareholders can call about
£5OO more of the annual income their own than they
could 10 years ago.
■* • * *
The disastrous proceedings of Donaghy’s Rope
and Twine Co. (M.L.) were lastmentioned here on June,
27, 1907. At that time, on an almost.complete change of
directors, it had been found that the assets needed
writing down by £40,712 ; and subsequently, when it was
found that another £2500 must come off, the directors
decided to write off half the capital, reducing it from
£47,000 to £23,500. This stiil left a deficit of £6128 after
writing off all reserves. Apparently this was transferred
to a goodwill account ; anyway, in the balance-sheet for
the past year there is an item of that sort standing at
£6112. At the end of the first year, after the clean-
up or partial clean-up, there was a profit and
loss balance of £3391, out of which a 6 per cent,
div. was paid and £3OO set aside for plant renewal.
For the past year a profit of £4927 is shown after paying
interest on the debenture debt of £28,000. After £499 is
written off for depreciation, a net profit of £4428 remains ;
and a 7 per cent, dividend absorbs £1645. Nominally,
after an appropriation of £2500 has been made towards
the Debenture Redemption Fund, there is a total to the
credit of this fund of £4000; but it is not in cash—the
bank credit balance was only £lO5 even before paying the
dividend. There were also other debts totalling £5134.
The debentures mature in August; holders are asked to
renew them at the old rate of 6 ptr cent.—a heavy burden
for the co. to bear. Under the circumstances, the div.
should not have been increased, though it is possible it
was done with a view to getting in more capital later on ;
and more capital is certainly wanted. The profits men-
tioned above depend, of course, upon the assets—land,
plant, buildings, stock and book debts—having been
properly valued ; and upon that point nothing one way or
the other can be said.
* * * *
The first published balance-sheet of Nicholson
& Co., Ltd., music-sellers, of Sydney, is available. The
present co., which took over the business about two
years ago, has a paid capital of £29,616 ; the balance of
the capital of £50,000 is unissued. On March 31 it owed
£11,083 on overdraft and £5576 otherwise ; total £16,659.
Its assets are chiefly stock-in-trade, £22,168 ; and sundry
debtors (mainly sums owing on “ hire ” agreements),
£30,729. These “ hire ’’-agreement debts are stated to be
fully secured ; they are shown net—that is, less reserves
for fire insurance, etc. The net profit for the half-year to
Sept., 1908, is stated at £l6BB ; for the past half-year at
£2051. The total balance at profit and loss is £7905, appro-
priated in this way : Dividend (10 per cent, for the year),
£3OOl ; written off and as provision for bad debts, £721.
This leaves £4183 to add to reserves, which now total £5720.
On the directors’ showing, the profit for the year was
£3739, less provision for bad debts, etc.; hence the divi-
dend leaves very little indeed for reserves—and reserves
are all the more desirable on account of the heavy debt.
Apart from that., almost everything hangs on the valua-
tion of the stock and book debts —as to which, of course,
no test can be applied. A satisfactory feature of the
accounts is that there is no goodwill or other paper item
among the assets.
* * * *
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Victoria
(Melbourne): —
Carried
to Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit
Aug., 1906 .. £4 Nil £4 £5
Feb., 1907 .. 11 6 p.c. =£B 3 2
Reserves
Ausr 1907 / 42 6 >» >. 23 19 17
=', u ' '• V Forfeited capital ..5 22
F*h iqoq 147 6 p.c. =44 3 25
’’ " \ Forfeited capital ..8 33
Anw 1908 J 52 5 p.c. =47 5 38
a .,iuus •• \ Forfeited capital .. 12 50
Feb., 1909 .. 41 4 p.c. =44 47
This little concern was established in connection with the
Civil Service Co-operative Society in Melbourne. The
latter trades (so far as its customers are concerned) on a
cash basis ; but they can get accommodation through
this branch of the business. The advances outstanding
total £2440. Provision for doubtful debts has been made
out of the half-year’s profits ; hence the shrinkage shown
in profits.
The Ocean Accident and Guarantee Cor-
poration, Ltd. :
Reserves
(includ-
ing Re-
serve
for
Dividends paid Added Unex-
during year to Re- pired
Income. Profits. (less Tax). serves. Risks).
1899.. 743,733 139,472 15 p.c. =19,429 120,043 645,054
1900.. 878,492 71,496 20 ~,,28,096 43,400 688,454
New share premiums .. ..96,250 784,734
1901.. 1,120,359 20,367 20 ~,,36,488 768,613
Loss.
1902.. 1.196.655 46,936 20 ~,,32,424 689,253
Profit.
1903.. 1,130,516 48,747 20 ~,,32,415 16,332 705,585
1904.-1,090,527 27,124 15 ~,, 24,634 2,490 708,075
1905.. 1,113,675 40,490 15 ~,,24,554 15,936 724,011
J906..1,178,384 141,772 20 ~,,32,739 109,033 833,044
1907.-1,480,715 230,290 25 „ ~40,923 189,367 1,022,411
Transferred to Contingency a/c, £44,000.. 978,411
1905.. 1,455,513 86,718 27£p.c. =45,015 41,703 1,020,114
This big English concern got into the accident and em-
ployers’ liability business by the early door, and has
had some remarkable in-and-out experiences since it
arrived there. It has had troubles that don’t come
the way of a life office. When a man is dead,
he is dead, and there is no doubt about it. But
when a man is hurt he will knock off work if he is one
sort of man, and he will stick on at it if he is another
sort. For a while men and women who were insured
against accident didn’t knock off any more than they
used to before they were insured ; but later on they
either voluntarily knocked off, or the employer put them
off on the ground that it doesn’t pay him to keep an in-
jured man on the wage sheet. The claims on this kind
of office, therefore, increased very largely, which ex-
plains why a profit of £139,472 in 1899 was converted
into a loss of £46,936 in 1902. After that rates were
revised, and gradually workshops, etc., that were found
to be particularly slaughterous were given the go-by ;
so the profits jumped up. Last year they slumped
again. Three causes were probably responsible : (1) the
general trade depression in England, which resulted in
reduced employment and consequently reduced income
from premiums ; (2) greater competition in the accident
business, many of the fire offices now cutting in ; (3)
owing to the trade depression, men either go off or are
put off for injuries which wouldn’t keep a mail from
working in brisk times. Owing to fire cos. cutting in at
the accident business, this co. two years ago decided to
open a fire department ; and that may have also affected
th‘e figures. Compensation paid and “incidental ex-
penses” totalled £740,037 for the year, as against £628,750
in 1907. The claims paid during the year were 52 - 7 p.c.
of the premiums received, and the expenses were
40’4 per cent. Both rates look high, and only
the huge turnover allows of so fine a dividend being paid.
Besides the reserves shown above, there is an investment
reserve and contingency fund which now stands at
£145,000. This probably ought to be included with the
reserves ; it depends upon whether the assets are kept
well written down or not.
Albury Gas Co. (Aibury, N.S.W.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1903.. £372 10 p.c. = £375 £4O £742
Dec., 1903.. 459 10 ~ ~ 375 £B4 826
June, 1904 . 471 10 ~ ~ 375 96 922
Dec., 1904.. 524 10 „ „ 375 149 1071
June, 1905.. 418 10 ~ „ 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905.. 554 10 „ ~ 875 179 1293
June, 1906.. 516 10 „ „ 375 141 1434
Dec., 1906.. 508 10 ~ ~ 375 133 1567
June, 1907.. 488 10 „ ~ 375 113 1680
Dec., 1907.. 543 10 ~ ~ 375 168 1848
June, 1908.. 673 10 ~ ~ 375 298 2146
Dec., 1908.. 613 10 ~ ~ 375 238 2384
As nothing is written off, the true profits are less than
stated above, and more or less of the reserves are not real
reserves. There is a debt of £5OOB on the undertaking,
secured by mortgage. The plant account stands at
£13,088, so that if only 2 per cent, per annum were set
aside to cover depreciation and provide for future re-
newals, £l3O would have to be written off the profits each
half-year.
* * * *
The report of the Melbourne Electric Supply
Co., of London, which controls undertakings in Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Geelong, shows a profit for the year
ending August, 1908, of £22,030, compared with £19,741
for the previous year. No dividend was declared, and a
balance of £5288 was carried forward to profit and loss.
The directors had decided to issue £lOO,OOO first mortgage
debentures and £ioo,ooo preference shares, in order to
pay off the company’s floating debt and provide more
capital to extend the works at Melbourne and Geelong.
The Adelaide Electric Supply Co.—in which this co. is
interested—had made satisfactory progress, and had paid
a dividend of 3£ per cent, on its ordinary shares in De-
cember, 1908.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation has got to the point at
which it apparently reckons that its works are as com-
plete.as it knows how to make them at present. Hitherto
“ expenditure on construction ” has been a heavy item ;
but, for the first time on record, May showed no out-
goings on that account. (In March the total was no less
than £2055.) The works treated 19,610 tons of “ tailings ”
during the month for a record income (estimated) of
£21,017. The total working expenditure was £8982;
probably from £4900 to £5500 must be added
to that to pay for the tailings. There looks
to be a nice, comfortable profit in the business
even at present prices ; and if there hadn’t been
such a horrible waste of money at the outset, the co.
would be showing a good return on capital. In that re-
spect it is a good deal like that other Broken Hill corpora-
tion, the Sulphide. The latter’s ordinary shares have had
no dividend since 1900 ; but if they don’t get 10 per cent,
for the year which will end on June 30, a lot of people
who ought to know will be very much disappointed. Fol-
lowing the Sulphide Corporation in . another respect, the
Zinc Corporation proposes to write off ss. per share from
the ordinary shares. The Zinc’s year ended on February
28, and the accounts ought to be out in about a month
from now-
* * » *
The Broken Hill South Blocks is maintaining
its reputation for being the handiest mining proposition
on the Barrier. There was a doubt at one time—and not
so very long ago, either—as to whether the ore body went
down to any depth. Sufficient work has now been done
to dispel any doubts of that kind. At the 600 ft. level the
ore body, besides opening out well in both ends, is
going down stronger underfoot than it did in the
upper levels. When the sinking of the main
shaft is resumed (and it shortly will be), it will
be carried down to 750 ft., and another crosscut will
be put out to meet the lode. Judging by appearances,
the ore will be found to be making stronger in the south
end as it goes down, for the body which is being worked
is evidently pitching south and getting wider on the
southern side of the shaft. Last month the mine was
relieved of the burden of construction work, which has
hung heavily round its neck ever since the present co.
started. But the expense attached to the stacking of
upwards of 10,000 tons of concentrates will clip a little off
profits on its own account.
* * * »
The fight between the Broken Hill shareholders
and the directors of the Junction seems to be over-
shadowing the recent development west of the old
workings. The trouble with a section of the Junction
shareholders is that last year they went to great trouble
to place a bomb under the directorate, and afterwards
found that it wasn’t loaded. Now there is a rather


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K,, 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4£d. per word, “VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE C.M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) .. 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANGE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL 8.07 „
SONS OF CWALIA 8.84 „
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating' mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings, over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and, 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. VV. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Win. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “ Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 41) per
cent, of the coal bill. For high’-ciass boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 315 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although he is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of ’97. Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are not experts generally
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney ; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry and
expense *
* * * *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen giyes
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success asa
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [2
s * * *
The original “Balata” Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [3
* * * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, under
date October, 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited : —“ In every branch of busi-
ness success has been marked with sagacious manage-
ment, and it must be highly gratifying to all concerned
to note that the huge surplus at the last valuation has
been put to most excellent and practical use in strength-
ening its resources.”*
■* * * *
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Having recently re-arranged their Electrical
Department, Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd-, 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, are able to
place on the market the highest type of electrical
machinery by Mather and Platt, Manchester, at prices
which compare favorably with those of other makers.
Mather and Platt have so great a reputation—their
dynamos, motors, and other machines being so widely
known for their strength, efficiency and high-class con-
struction—that there has always been a steady demand
for their manufactures in Australia, and users of electrical
power who think of installing new machines should ask
Gibson, Battle to send them catalogues, which contain
much interesting information.*
DIERCKS & CO. PROPTY. Ltd,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
sole acents foi*_ q TTOS AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohlig, Cologne, as
"supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY a Excavators and Dredging Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds, [g
pretty bit of crossfiring going on between the bomb
throwers and the Board, and the Board is likely to get the
best of it. For one thing, a rise of 4s. 6d. per share has
thrown a lot of gold-dust in the eyes of discontented
shareholders, and, at the same time, weakened the ranks
of the attacking force by enabling many of them to get
out of their shares at a satisfactory figure.
Apparently the Broken Hill Water Supply Go.,
which has now returned to its shareholders no less than
three-fourths of their capital, besides paying them very
handsome dividends, has saved its bacon again. The
water in the reservoir was sinking to the pea-soup stage,
and the end was only a few weeks away, when the
catchment had the luck to get one of the rare good
falls of those parts; and Broken Hill hasn’t any
fear of a famine before about next Christmas.
That no doubt means that all thought of a
supplementary supply will be laid away on a shelf some-
where ; for Broken Hill only thinks of a supplementary
water-scheme when famine is on the door-mat. Manager
Whitehead, the co.’s engineer, has been in Adelaide look-
ing at the dredge used in that city to lift some of the
silt out of the alleged Lake Torrens, and considering
whether some such appliance wouldn’t act at his own
reservoir. Certainly something will have to be done to
clean the hole out; for in some places it isn’t more than
about one-half of its original depth.
Peak Hill Gold Mines, Ltd. (W.A.), will
shortly’ be in the melting pot unless a lucky accident
happens. The famous Patch has been dryblown a dozen
times, the dust has been put through the battery, every-
thing- crushable has been pulverised and cyanided, and
there is little left but reefs of the buck variety. Roughly,
the Patch has contributed about half a million ounces,
and as that was all obtained from an area about the size
of an average market garden, the prospects of another
rich find in that broken-up country should stimulate a
few practical miners to make investigations. Frank
Reed’s theory was that the marvellousness of the Patch
was attributable to thermal action. Accepting that as
correct, other thermal springs are likely to have bubbled
up in the same part of the country.
• ♦ * m
Three Kalgoorlie cos., including the Ivanhoe
and the Lake View, have joined in engaging Dr. Malcolm
Maclaren to make a geological survey of the ore deposits
on that field, and he has lately been at work on the in-
teresting job. Maclaren, who has made a specialty of
this branch of geology, has done a lot of the same kind of
work for the Indian Government.
* * * *
F. A. Govett, of the Ivanhoe and other big
Westralian concerns, generally manages to make the most
entertaining “ chairman’s remarks ”of the year. In 1908,
at the Ivanhoe meeting, he set a thousand city tongues
and pens wagging by laying it down that “ the dangers of
mining investments are compensated by, on an average,
not less than a 15 percent, yield ” —which wasn’t the sort
of optimistic rubbish mining co’s. chairmen, in London
especially, are usually guilty of. This year, at the same
co.’s meeting, he remarked that 12 months ago he
had indulged in a forecast of the probable course
of the investment market, but the year, “as far as
we have progressed, has not justified my judgment in
any way.” Then, having made this cheerful confession,
Chairman Govett explained why good English invest-
ments have been steadily on the down-grade—it is pro-
bably because “ the investor is following Mr. Asquith’s
advice, and exporting his capital to create and foster
industries and employ labor in other countries than
his own.” Which can’t be beaten by much as a biting
description of British “ Freetrade ” gospel, coupled with
the idea that England’s greatness depends on that
country lending money to other countries to build
factories, etc., with.
* » * *
Oroya-Brown Hill (W. A.) is now having a look
at West Africa. Its glance is mainly focussed at 206 acres
of banket formation, belonging to the Ashanti Acquisi-
tions, Ltd.; but if a sale is effected the deal will also in-
clude 46 acres owned by the Wassau Extended, Ltd., and
a 4-7ths interest in 378 acres known as Merton’s Atarnsoo
Deeps. All three properties are in the same fever-ridden
locality, and the first two adjoin the Tarkwa Main Reef,
in which the Great Fingall now holds a controlling in-
terest, and is preparing to splash up some of its savings.
Interested people still go on booming the Great
Fitzroy (Queensland), the silieious, low-grade copper
Show in which Lionel Robinson and Co. have just taken a
big block of shares. -Wise men will stand off this already
enormously over-capitalised concern, which, so far, has
existed mainly through the business kindness of the
Mount Morgan people! Already it has seen one recon-
struction, and it will take a miracle to save it from
another a little later on, despite this last big deal. The
shares have been put up to 255. quite easily, because prac-
tically none have been let loose on the public yet.
»**■*■
Croydon (N.Q.) hangs down its head in dis-
appointment. ,The boring of the Highland Mary—which
in its flush times yielded 55,0000 z. — has failed to locate
the lost gold.
* * * *
Mount Molloy (Q.) has no idea of starting
another smelting campaign. Prospecting the mine to a
depth of 470 ft. has resulted in some small discoveries, but
there isn’t enough payable ore developed to keep the
smelter going. The co. is waiting now for the Atherton
railway extension to reach Herberton, for it proposes to
smelt basic ore from the Anniversary mine, which is
alleged to contain a big tonnage of rich stuff. It has also
secured an option over a basic ore body near Montalbion,
which was a silver mining camp that roared considerably
20 years since, though all that is left is a dam, some old
houses, and stacks of broken bottles. Mount Molloy is
trying to hold its end up, but it is obviously a hard
struggle.
The Mount Molloy timber concession has not
given much profit, but as the co. has bought a sawmill
near Mareeba, the timber business may improve, though
just at present, owing mainly to ructions in the trade in
Sydney, there isn’t anything like the profit in timber that
there ivas. This explains aiso why shares in some timber
cos. are not in such favor as they were. For several years
past there was a very clear understanding between the
timber men of Sydney. A little while back, however,
one of the big businesses changed hands, passing over to
people who refused to have anything to do with any com-
bine, or ring, or “ horrible ” understanding ; whereupon
war started, and timber has actually been sold in Sydney
lately at under cost price.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, reports a crush-
ing of 1413 tons for £4829, and has declared a div. of
Is. per share. Mills’ United and the New Brilliant
Freehold have bought the Day Dawn Block and Wynd-
ham battery (60 head) and cyanide plant. This costly
deal indicates the confidence the directors have in the
eastern Day Dawn, in spite of the disappointing pros-
pects in the deepest levels. Development work at No.
14 is being- pushed on, and now that the rise from No.
13 is through tb the upper levels, there will be a chance
to thoroughly prospect a big block of ground. Brilliant
Blocks Co., to vary the monoton}' of deep-sinking, is
continuing a crosscut into the footwall, trying for the
reef discovered by the Brilliant Deeps. With this cross-
cut going in, some of Brilliant Blocks’ contributing
shares have found a market; but even if the Brilliant
Blocks have good luck and find a payable reef, there
will be a lot of development work and call-paving.
Mount Morgan’s return for May, valued at
£77,800, is an improvement on the previous monthly re-
turn ; but the half-yearly clean-up from the chlorination
works no doubt supplied a good many hundred ounces.
Things are still not what they were ; we have only to
look back to July, 1908, to find the gross value as much
as £94,800, taking copper at £59. Three blast furnaces
dealt with 20,132 tons of copper ore for an average of
2'41 per cent, copper and 5-85dwt. gold. The gross value
recovered was worLh 525. per ton. Nothing much can be
said about costs, because so much development work has
been done; this, by the way, is also put forward to
explain the decline in the average extra; ion of copper.
The introduction of the new system of mining and tim-
bering is now nearing completion, so the output isn’t
likely to shrink. Development work on the co.’s big-
basic ore body at Many Peaks, 140 miles from Mount
Morgan, has recently disclosed large quantities of payable
ore f and within a few months Mount Morgan will be able
to draw on this supply.
* * * *
O.K. copper mine (Q.) has compromised its law
suit with the Hirsches by agreeing to pay £16,500. The
co. evidently cannot pay up the lot at once. It pays over
the £lO,OOO which it deposited in court, and has been
given 10 weeks wherein to find the remaining £6500.
Following on the heavy working losses of the past two
months, O.K.’s finances must be looking very sick, and
the Board will have to consider how to raise the wind.
**-*■*
The Lady Jane (Q.), which belongs to the
Mungana Co., and helps to supply the Chillagoe fur-
naces, has caught fire, and the levels have been bricked
up to limit the damage. The old plan of trying to
smother the fire with chemical fumes is to have a trial.
The mineral contains much sulphur, so the fire will not
be easily got under unless the mine is flooded with water ;
and that should be possible, for water is very heavy in the
limestone formation. Apart from this trouble, develop-
ments in Mungana’s Girofla mine have been pretty good,
and a large quantity of mixed carbonate ore has been sent
to Chillagoe smelters. The latter are also receiving ore
from Einasleigh and some of the Chillagoe mines. The
railway is climbing the Newcastle range, and should open
up some land on the eastern fall for settlement and
timber-getting. The railway' is expected to be within 10
miles of Charlestown by the end of August.
» » -» •
From Cloncurry (Q.): —-Mount Elliott, after
three years of erecting furnaces and pulling them down
again, has at last started making matte in the blast fur-
nace, and blister copper in the converter, and the mine
ores are supplying the necessary flux. Certainly one
horse-team is carting limestone, making a couple of trips
per week, but this stuff is all still in the heap untouched.
For a co. with plenty of capital, Elliott has the poorest
type of plant, and it'hasn’t been improved bv the way it
has been erected. The people in charge appear one month
to have decided upon excavating for a site, and, after
shifting a thousand tons or so of rock, to have resolved
upon another site, and done the same thing over again.
The present site is on the side of a hill, some 80ft. high,
and has sufficient room to hold the furnace ; but the
arrangement is bad, and the Lord have pity on the matte
puncher who misses the matte-hole of the forehearth
when tapping ! On the converter floor there is a space
some 20ft. wide, bounded on the north by a brick retain-
ing wall, on the south by the converter blower-engine,
blast furnace blower, and mine compressor, and oti the
west by the hill and converter flues. It is Sheol to work
in. The converters are laid out to be moved by air motors,
but the motors were probably designed to work a sewing
machine, and not clumsy converter shells with their
quartz linings, etc. Several portions of the plant appear
to have a list, and there are things about the blast fur-
nace that you find mostly in those that are shut down as
a bad job. ” Still the plant is turning out a great quantity
of matte, and a large stack of blister copper is
mounting up. The first smelter foreman left the job, and
Oorbould put one of his old Lloyd’s blast-furnace hands
in charge. But the new man at once got very ill (perhaps
at sight of the plant), and had to be removed to the
Hampden Hospital ; so Oorbould is general manager,
metallurgist, and now his own smelter foreman, with a
few other odd things thrown in. Notwithstanding ail
this, it is a great relief to the district to know that the
ore is amenable to blast-furnace treatment, and that no
fluxes are required ; also that a matte can be produced
that can be converted into blister copper, as grave doubts
existed on that point.
The disappointing Ravenswood (Q.) feels a bit
better on account of a development at the Barrier mine.
Government made a prospecting grant, and this help has
resulted in the discovery of what looks like a payable
little mine. The miners deepened an old underlie shaft
on the south-east corner of the Grant and Sunset Ex-
tended, and in 50ft. of sinking the reef gradually im-
proved till now the Inspector of Mines reports that there
are a few inches of good ore in the face. Whether the
Grant and Sunset Extended will benefit is not yet known.
This latter concern has not done much good lately because
the reef is small, and mining and crushing expenses are
too heavy for stone worth £4 a ton.
• * * *
The extension of three new railways should
give Queensland’s mining industry a lift. The Boyne
line, connecting the Many Peaks copper mine with the
main railway from Rockhampton and Mount Morgan, is
the most important, because freight to the extent of
something like 100,000 tons a year is practically assured.
The scheme to link the largest silieious ore body in Aus-
tralia (Mount Morgan) with a remarkable deposit of
pyritic ore at Many Peaks is imitative of the system of
treatment followed at Mount Lyell and Cobar. Mount
Morgan costs will not be‘ so low as those at Mount Lyell,
for many reasons, the chief of which is the cost of railing
ore between the two big mines. An interesting feature
will be the increased customs trade from small mines that
will inevitably spring up. Hitherto Mount Morgan,
having to pay high prices for coke and ironstone, has not
been able to quote a reasonable figure for this kind of
work. The extension of the Chillagoe railway to the
Etheridge, and the opening up of copper mines near
Einasleigh and Charlestown, is hardly of less importance
than the Boyne or the Mount Elliott railways. There is
a probability that if these lines pay, other railways—for
instance, one to Mount Cuthbert—will be built shortly,
* * * *
Star of the East, Sebastopol Plateau (Vic.), hav-
ing had an issue of goodness-only-knows-how-many shares
underwritten at 6d., are up no one quite knows where.
The Bulletin has many times described Star of the
East as a planet that ought to disappear from the
mining firmament, and to-day it stands to every word it
has had to say on the subject. Since Star of the East
worked out the mineral lode near the surface, the claim
has been nothing but a “ stringer ” of the worst descrip-
tion. Calls have come, and there have been all sorts of
tarradiddles about what the mine was going to do. All
these promises have been empty.
The first thing the Star has to face is a burden-
some pumping charge, the next is poor stone, and the
third is an adverse share market. The Bulletin invites the
Star of the East directors to disclose what are their hold-
ings in the co., whether paid or contributing shares. Then
it asks : Do directors get visiting fees or not ? Then it
invites the Board to get a good mining man—not a
Ballarat Stock Exchange mugwump, but a cold-blooded
valuer—to visit the claim and tell the truth about it.
After all this has been done, The Bulletin will ask the
Board to disclose again how the co. stands with the
bank. Then, with this information, posterity can decide
whether the Star of the East is a bag of tricks or a mine.
* * * *
An old friend cuts across the horizon. This is
the Pyrenees, at Amphitheatre, near Avoca (Vic.). It is
mostly owned by Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, but that
does not count for much, because as a rule the Jew is too
sanguine to make a good miner. No one disputes that
good gold was got in the shallow' ground at the Pyrenees,
but that does not mean that good gold is intruding at
depth, where tight country and different conditions pre-
vail. Still the Pyrenees run in a mineral belt that
deserves prospecting; so, whether it be Jew or Gentile
w'ho goes there, he deserves to succeed. At present at
325 ft. a nice body of laminated stone is showing, w'hieh
presents more possibilities than anything a lot of the
heavy call-making mines in Victoria can show.
* * * *
Prospects at Go-War (Vic.) are said to be good.
Fift3' tons, w'hieh went 57£0z., have introduced the
name to the public. Looking down the long list of little
places in the big municipal directory, Go-War is found to
lie outside Maldon. So when Go-War got 570 z. from 50
tons —or vice versa, it didn’t matter which —every horse
in Maldon was hitched up to every cart, and a rush
started to Go-War ; and already claims have been pegged
out up and down.
* * * *
Norfolk Range is the latest tripping ground of
the Mount Lyell Ob. It is God-forsaken, mountainous
country, a bit back from the north-west coast of
Tasmania, and north of Macquarie Harbor. Also
by an odd coincidence it lies about 10 miles
distant from little Langford’s Mount Dawson show.
It is said the big co. has 2000 acres there. Proper figures
would be about 1400 acres, quite enough to satisfy the
modest wants of the Bowes Kelly-Synie-Knox crowd.
The co. has in a quiet way been prospecting all
along the coast for the past two years. That
fact is not let out in the co.’s report, and it
can be taken that there would still be stealth about
Manager Sticht’s movements if he had not found a bit
that he thought showed something beyond the common.
The co. is now cutting a track to the Range, and next
summer should see the worth of the field measured up.
What is known to-dav is that schist well impregnated
with copper exists. Whether this means pay dirt or not
has to be proven. To determine that will be Sticht’s
mission, but he isn’t going to shift camp until the snow is
off Mb. Dawson.
* * * *
Many a country- struggler in N. S. Wales and
other States will be glad to find that in Sydney wool has
again had a very firm market, and, except for poor sorts,
prices are a shade higher even than they were when the
last sales closed. The struggler may have no wool to
sell, but he mostly has an overdraft to carry, and in hun-
dreds of cases his banker has been urging him to reduce
it, while any increase has been out of the question.
Under ordinary circumstances, with the outlook as good as
it is, most country towns would be wearing a broad, ex-
pansive smile; but the squeezing at the banker’s has rubbed
most of the smile off. High wool prices may be expected
to improve the bank deposits, which lately have been
very slack ; and then some of the squeezing may ease off.
But it is fairly obvious that the majority of the banks
look on the very high prices of country lands with much
distrust, and don’t intend to be caught by the bad slump
that will almost for a certainty follow if poor prices and
a bad season should happen to strike Australia simul-
taneously.
* * * *
Inquirer : Sorry can’t trace all the bonuses paid
by the O.S.R. 00., chiefly because the directors’ report
never alludes to them. But with the present co. they
began in 1888, when £50,000 was “transferred to capi-
tal”; and the last samples were in 1907, when £75,000
was presented in shares to shareholders, and in 1908, when
£350,000 (17,500 shares) went the same way Charters :
Unless it is quite a new policy, better go on paying
H.K. : Can’t advise ; haven’t got the society’s accounts.
Long wait: Better wait: the case is not considered
hopeless.
* * * *
The experiment of subsidising shipments of
lead ores mined north of the tropic of Capricorn is about
to be tried in Westralia. The subsidy is limited to an
average monthly disbursement of £5O, and payments are
to be made on a sliding scale. When lead is quoted in
London at £l3 2s. 6d. the amount payable is to be ss. per
ton, with a drop of Is. Bd. per ton for every half-crown
rise in the price, so that at £l3 10s. the subsidy disap-
pears. On the other hand, the subsidy is to be increased
4d. per ton for every 2s. 6d. that lead falls below
£l3 2s. 6d. until 7s. per ton is reached, which is the maxi-
mum amount that shippers and exporters can breast the
Treasury counter and collect; and lead will have to get
to £lO 10s. before they can gather in that much.
* * » *
Something is at last coming out of the business
end of ex-Prime Minister Watson’s trip to S’Africa. In
Victoria, Watson fell in a few years ago with P. W. Tewks-
bury, the self-taught engineer who has made such a
success of gold-dredging in the Bright district. Watson
became interested in Tewksbury’s enterprises there, and
later on they joined in a big scheme to w ork in the Braid-
wood (N.S.W.) district. After the ex-Prime Minister had
done some hard prospecting on the latter properties,
a co. with some Dixson tobacco money in it took
them over, and Watson went on to S’Africa to probe
some of the reports that had come along regarding
dredging in that country. He has put in nearly three
months prospecting in the Tewksbury manner (that is to
say, small shafts are sunk and the entire spoil is vvashed
up), and the results have apparently been satisfactory.
Anyhow, Watson reports that he has secured enough
options and concessions to satisfy the big concern which
the little party has in view. Detailed reports of these
have not yet, however, been sent over.
* * * *
“Redtape”: The German steamer Seydlitz,
which left Circular Quay (Sydney) the other day, had on
board a shipment of refined copper, valued at £lB,OOO. It
was the first consignment of pure copper sent from Aus-
tralia. Before this, the German ships used to carry large
quantities of copper ore to be refined in Germany. Quite
lately, too, the first Australian “tops” (combed wool)
were sent to Japan ; and now word comes from the
German woollen people that they don’t see why they
should pay freight on the dirt and grease of the raw wool
if they can get the combed article from Australia. For
Australian-made tops must be pure Australian wool, not
a blend of all sorts as often comes from the English and
other European factories. So Australia progresses a little
more under Federation and Protection.
* * * ■*
“The Prospectors and Investors’ Association of
Fiji ” was born at Suva the other week under humorous
circumstances. A notice of the coming event, posted up
at a local pub., invited the attendance of “ All that are
interested in the mining industry of Fiji ”; but seeing that
Fiji, thus far, hasn’t got any such industry on hand, the
attendance was small. However, it was large enough
for the job. A Mr. S. Lazarus having solemnly taken the
chair, a Mr. O’Conner revealed himself as the moving
spirit. He practically gave birth to the association, and
looked after the christening of the poor little thing, after
which the officers were selected from as many of those
present as had put down their names as subscribers of £1
a head. Finally O’Conner passed a hearty vote of thanks
to the chair, and another vote of thanks to the mild
enthusiasts who had promised £l. Presumably the
Prospectors and Investors’ Association of Fiji is now en-
gaged in stating its prospects and inviting more invest-
ments.
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 33).
The wonder of Tait’s Victorian Railway
Circus grows and grows. Lately it found one of
its gangers guilty of buying 2s. worth of material
without inviting tenders for it, as set forth in
regulation sub-section 91 (a). In the
second place, it found that one of its Pintsch gas
stations required lib. of acetate of lead, valued at
5d., whereupon it laboriously sent out tender
forms to various firms of wholesale chemists, in-
viting quotations for the stuff. Moreover, the
tenderers were solemnly required “to give the
approximate percentage of Australian labor_ in-
cluded in the rate or rates quoted.” That is a
sample of the facetious dignity with which Tait’s
Railway Service conducts its business. But it
must maintain that dignity, even if it costs £lO in
the postage and clerical labor of inviting tenders
for a ha’porth of soap.


Charles Heidsieck
EEIMi
EXTRA DRY
FINEST EXTRA Q?
The Praise of its Pleased
Customers has made the
Success of
“Silvasheen” Satin
Tens of Thousands of Women have
proved its Greater Reliability and
Value by Actual Use. They Buy
it again and again, year after year,
and they tell their Friends.
FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
A chemist has to listen to
other people’s troubles all day
long, and sometimes half the
night, too —it’s pretty trying,
and one gets very weary of it, l
can tell you—and sometimes 1 get
so run down that 1 go right off
my food, and the only thing l
can touch is a cup of tea.
Now, provided tea is pure, and
not overdrawn in the making, it
is about as good a thing as you
can take when you feel very tired,
and there’s certainly nothing that
you can drink with your meals
that’s nicer or better for you —
tea’s much better even than fresh
water, because to make tea the
water must be boiled, which kills
all the germs in it whereas,
when you drink plain water you
swallow the germs alive. Robur
is the purest tea that can be got,
and 1 can recommend the No. 1
Grade —it really is wonderfully
nice tea.
The Chemist.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARP BRANDY
' 1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 8, 1909.
My Dear Arini, —
At Melba’s first concert the Dudley countess
was the Lady in Grey—cobweb grey, and the
material was of as diaphanous a quality as that
spun by mistress spider. Lady Chelmsford looked
very attractive. Everyone in the vice-regal
enclosure felt sure she would “suit” us, and
hoped she’d like her new “situation.” She was
in pale blue and white lace, with a corsage bou-
quet of red blossoms. Lady Poore wrapped her-
self in white satin, which harmonised with her
hair. A crowd of gentlemen “attended” upon
these three, so the vice-regal reserve was fully
inhabited. The vice-regal enclosure, which
must not be confounded with the reserve,
was mostly inhabited by Jewry from Mac-
leay-street and Edgecliff-road. Pretty well
every Sydney Hebrew of wealth was present.
The blaze of their jewels blinded the other con-
tingent in the same enclosure—the contingent
that doesn’t pay for its seat, never applauds, and
isn’t as good-looking as the Macleay-streeters or
Edgecliffers, who are mostly handsome. For
that matter, only about one person in every 20
in the guinea chairs gave Melba the glad noise of
hands in concussion. The applause that amounted
to anything always came from the vice-regal
pen and the five shilling seats. Not that
the guinea-pigs didn’t appreciate the star’s
amazing art in the Willow Song, or the
Padded Cell Scene from Hamlet; but applause is
an exertion, and it’s easier to let one’s white kids
lie on one’s satin charmeuse lap and say to one’s
neighbor, “ I think her voice is perfectly charm-
ing, don’t you ? ”
As for Melba herself, really she was some emo-
tions and a moral. I mean she roused some
emotions and was a moral—but you can point the
moral yourself. She was dressed in diamonds—
mainly diamonds—and an emerald green satin robe
with a black sequined overdress and “introduc-
tions” of tangerine. She was most kind to her
audience, and gave it much more than the pro-
gramme promised, along with many gracious in-
clinations of her richly-dressed person; but she
wisely refrains from smiling often. A smile does
not suit her type of face : it is cynical, and some-
what grimaceful.
I hear that Melba is selling her London house
and other appurtenances and intends to settle
down, ultimately, in Australia. Her son is here
for keeps, and she wants to abide with or near
him when she retires from the operatic stage.
Pray Providence that this may be so ! So much
good hard cash earned in Australia is expended
abroad that it produces a distinct thrill of joy,
mingled with surprise, when Rumor credits one
with the intention of scattering some foreign
gleanings here.
On Wednesday eve (last night to you, but to me
the night after to-morrow) the Governor-General
and his Generaless will have given (or will give—
take it how you prefer) a small dance. It has been
organised by way of celebrating their eldest
daughter’s 17th birthday, and should be a merry
little revel.
Governor-General Dudley is nursing one large-
sized loaf of disappointment. He came out to
Australia by way of Canada, which he visited
with the Prince of Wales, who was acting as the
small central figure in the tercentenary blaze of
glory. Another conspicuous member of the party
was Lord Roberts, the little iron-grey fire-eater
whom every schoolboy speaks of with warm
approval as “Bobs.” Now “Bobs” has for
years wanted to see Australia; he wanted
to see what sort of country it was that
bred the men who did the remarkable
scouting—and other things—in South Africa; also,
he wanted to affectionately pat the Australian
cadet on the head. So it was fixed up in a general
way, and without going into details, that the new
G.-G. should have the pleasure of putting up the
ex-Commander-in-Chief at the unknown humpy
lie was going out to. But things in Europe evi-
dently don’t look to the little iron-grey man like
they did even such a little while ago as that; so,
replying to the suggestion of the Salvation Army
—of all people !—that he should visit Australia,
he has said that he can’t leave home—he must
stay there and try to get Britain to adopt com-
pulsory military service. Which means that
Australia is going to miss hearing the biggest lot
of genuine cheering that ever deafened it, and the
G.-G. is going to miss his star visitor.
A curious entry went through the Customs a
few weeks ago—a bale of white frocks, sent by the
Countess of Dudley, and declared at £5OO. Report
says that they have gone to the Dudley baronial halls
to be “done up.” Dudley dame and demoiselles
have worn white pretty well ever since they came
to these smiling shores, but the suggestion that
the frocks have departed to be laundered and
returned sounds unsound. Five hundred pounds’
worth of frilly, lacy, or just white clothes at the
“done up” phase would want most of the space
in the hold of a liner. They wouldn’t bear crush-
ing in the packing. Besides, they wouldn’t stay
“ done up ” for more than a day or two, and a bi-
weekly journey to England would cost too much
even for the frills of Peer Dudley’s ornamental
wife and daughter.
Small boy Roderick Ward is taking his scout-
ing quite seriously. Every Saturday afternoon
he is motored to Mosman with a footman, who
hands him the wand, or staff, or plain stick used
in the exercises. He seems a jolly youngster, and
the other knickered youngsters excuse him the
evils of the motor and the footman, saying “they
ain’t his fault.”
Yesterday, being Prince of Wales’ Birthday,
the H.M.S. Powerful improved the shining day
by having her 14-year-old sides painted.
Captain Robertson Clark, who was A.D.C. to
Lord Beauchamp, and subsequently to Sir
Harry Rawson, is “engaged.” His choice is
Lady Beatrice Moore, only daughter of
the Earl of Drogheda. The lady is 26
years young, and is said to be passing
fair. Captain Clark is a descendant of old John
Robertson, of cussful memory, and is a son of one
of N.S.W.’sbig station-owners. Lady Drogheda
will accompany the young couple to Australia,
home, and jumbuck shortly after the wedding.
Miss Fiorelli, of the soprano voice, the Italian-
teaching reputation, and the pretty, coffee-tinted
complexion, marries her banker-man presently.
Her mother, who is an Australian, came from
foreign parts for her daughter’s orange-blossoming.
Talking of weddings reminds me that the match
between Mr. W. F. Lawson and the almost
incredibly-plutocratic Yankee widow is “off.”
What caused the calamity is something of a
mystery. All that is definitely known is that the
ardent young man fled to New York recently
with 82 suits of clothes, each more lovely than the
other, bent on fixing the business up once and for
all, and that he returned to London shortly after
with the clothes intact, but all prospect of marry-
ing the girl evanished into thin air.
Baronet Rupert Clarke is here at time of writ-
ing, with his consort. But he is enroute to Papua,
where he has extensive rubber interests. Persons
who have rubber interests seem to become
sinfully rich ; and they also have riches already
before they start to rubber.
A snapshotter abroad at Saturday’s races at
Randwiclt got some good studies which he was
showing to his friends on the Stand at Monday’s
meeting. One group was the lately-returned and
recently be-knighted Albert Gould, in conversation
with that hardy bloomer, Mr. Reginald Bright,
and squatter Francis Bacon. Another was of a
Randwick doctor’s wife. She took the eye of the
multitude by wearing a pink gown, pink satin
shoes, pink silk hose, and an enveloping green
hat. The Rupert Clarke dame—a most stylish
brown study—and Captain Prowse, of the Power-
ful, were other snaps.
English papers of recent date have been saying
such things about the King and Mr. Sam Hor-
dern, senior. This is from the London Shipping
World of April 21:—
The composite screw yacht Bronzewing, 38 tons Thames
measurement, built in Cowes, in 1592, by Messrs. W.
White and Sons, engines 8 and 16£ by lOin. stroke, sails by
Ratseys and Lapthorn, dimensions 63ft. 2in. by lift. Bin.
by 6ft. 4in., owned by Mr. Samuel Hordern, Sydney
(N.S.W.), has been sold to H.M. the King.
That craft was sold to the Government, and not to
H.M. And this is from another well-informed
English journal:—
Mr. Samuel Hordern, who has offered £lO,OOO towards
the cost of building an Australian Dreadnought, and
another £lO,OOO if necessary, is one of the merchant
princes of Sydney (N.S.W.), who started life with the
proverbial Colonial shilling. He is the Australian
Whitely. His employees form a local regiment. Tlje
revolving lighthouse on the top of his Sydney stores was
originally so powerful that it outshone the light on the
harbor heads, and was the cause of two ships running
ashore under the impression that they were making the
harbor mouth. Despite his wealth, he sticks daily to
business, and is probably the worst-dressed man that
enters his counting-house.
Sydney can stand the snake story of the light-
house on top of the emporium, but it will cast its
shoe at the assertion that the yachtsman-motorist,
while sticking to business, dresses shabbily. Why,
on the score of his aesthetic dressing, the Tailor
and Cutter, that leading authority, would vote
for Senior Sam’s beatification even now, while he
is of the quick, and not of the dead.
Sam Hordern juniors are rejoicing at the arrival
of their first son. Two girls preceded him.
Grandpa Hordern has marked his approval of the
advent of the desirable Australian by presenting
its parents with a motor brougham.
Mr. Stephen Bryen, of “Lynwood,” Rand-
wick, who died recently, left enough estate to
shoo the wolf from his widow’s doorstep. His
estate is valued at nearly £95,000. Five children
also take shares of the wealth. Youngest daugh-
ter, Constance, recently married one of the Sees.
A more modest will is that of the late Primate,
Saumarez Smith. It does not total two thousand
pounds. About enough to pay the passages of
his six daughters to England, whither they go
presently. Seven nice daughters, and only one of
them married !
It was no muff-like undertaking to present the
two plays, “Comedy and Tragedy ” and “David
Garrick,” as did the Sydney Muffs at the Criterion
last Friday. A clever production, and a big
audience, from which no one detached himself
or herself before the close of the performance
save from necessity. Miss Stella Chapman
took the weighty part of Clarice, “a famous
actress,” in the first play, and proved herself a
good amateur with a bad make-up. She has a
mouth like Sara Bernhardt, but Sara paints her
lips into the correct shape. Mr. Horacede Lissa
shouldered the part of the Duke of Orleans,
Regent of France, and was ineffably dignified
and Bruce Smith-ish. The flower of Mr. Stanley
McKay’s flock in the one-act piece was a youthful
and uncommonly pretty damselwho was named
on the programme as Ara. Ido not know Ara’s
identity, but she ought to be heard of later if she
follows up the mumming profession. As Pauline,
the sister of the “famous actress,” she acted
charmingly. Should Mr. McKay stage David Gar-
rick again he ought to give the girl a chance as Ada
Ingot, for she seems an ideal ingenue. Miss
Sarah Collins, the Ada Ingot of Friday night,
is a clever little heavyweight, who ought
to do capitally in farcical comedy. Mr.
McKay himself wrestled with the great part of
David Garrick, and it didn’t quite overthrow him.
Best of the men players was the Muff who did old
Simon Ingot. Mr. Harry Waltham was he pro-
grammed ; but he’s probably a pro., and a good
one at that. Query : Did he have his teeth drawn
for art’s sake, so as to play the old man to the life,
or were they already missing ?
Mrs. J. C. Williamson and Mrs. Bland Holt
were boxed spectators, and opposite them Lady
Poore and Mrs. Wesche were in evening bravery.
A blend of stateliness and coquetry was the 18th
century Sword and Rose dance introduced into
“ David Garrick.” Lords and ladies comedown
the stage in two lines, the former carrying swords,
the latter garlands of roses. Follow a series of
slow and graceful figures or evolutions, and several
difficult steps ; the swords clash, or make an arch-
way, the rose garlands are coyly manipulated, and
from under swords and roses the lords and ladies
bend forward and kiss. This dance ought to
become most popular.
Mrs. “Ted” Simpson and the Alec Dalglishes
steamed Londonwards on the Mooltan last Satur-
day. They are to stay a piece with Mrs. Dalglish-
Bellasis, who is Mrs. Simpson’s sister and Mr
Dalglish’s mother. Another well-known voyager
is Mrs. Forsyth, of Dudley (N.S.W.), who has
timed herself to impact the British Isles at the
liorse-show season, which rages unceasingly
throughout July and August. Mrs. Forsyth is
about the best female judge of a horse that Aus-
tralia owns.
Amongst the passengers by the Mooltan last
Saturday was Miss Jamieson, that nice girl with
the enviable pile of pale gold hair, who does
J. 0. Williamson’s correspondence at Her
Majesty’s offices. As Himself will be away for
half a year or so, Miss Jamieson seized the occa-
sion, caught the liner, and is off to stop with a
married sister living in the city by the Thames.
Other departers were the two McQuade girls,
sisters-in-law of Miss Betty Ohls. They go to
play with music in some foreign capital.
Last week Mr. H. N. Southwell left Sydney
en route to Charters Towers and intervening
towns on Melba’s business. Between Tam worth
and Armidale the train pulled up at a lonely little
place called Woolbrook to take in water. As
there was nothing else available, “Southie” took
in the same. Then, to counteract the resultant
chill, he went into the stationmaster’s office,
where there was a fine fire. On the mantel was a
framed and autographed portrait of Melba. The
intruder rushed as many questions as a census
paper at the station-master, and the latter replied
that when Melba was here in 1902 he had written
to her asking her for it, and lo ! there it is in one
of the loneliest stations in the State. Further,
the isolated potentate of the station threatened
that when Melba’s train comes through he is
going to collect all the children thereabouts and
most of the flowers, and present to her the
lot —the flowers for keeps.
Baritone Ranalow and his wife are staying with
the “Redleaf” Lassetters during the Melba
season in Sydney.
Actor Eardley Turner, who is nightly shot in
“The Englishman’s Home,” earns some extra
butter for his crust by writing, turning his pen
with equal facility to verse and prose.
Miss Kate Rooney, who claims many steadfast
friends in the Commonwealth, begins a season of
concerts at the Town Hall, Sydney, early in
August. Then she goes on a comprehensive
country tour.
The Tait brothers are called by others in their
calling the wisest guys in the calling. (That’s
three callings.) Two clever things they will do
this year : Bring out Amy Castles, and a pair of
Wilbur Wright flying-machines.
Froig a resident at Mount Cuthbert, in Queens-
land, comes a guinea “for the place the Japs
won’t bombard or burn when they take Sydney.”
So the sender puts it, quoting from what the dying
Japsaid of the Hospice in Darlinghurst. And from
a dear infant, one Lyle Lee, aged seven, inhabit-
ing Kangaroo Point, at Brisbane, comes five
shillings for the same worthy objective. Queens-
land, of all the States, has responded most gener-
ously to the call of the Hospice.
The current French papers tell a pleasing tale of
a young male sentimentalist named Armarid
Mathieu. Being disappointed in love, he put on
the garb wherein he was to have been married,
and, going to a forest near his home, built a
funeral pyre of cypress wood. Having fashioned
it to his satisfaction, he lashed himself to a post
in the middle, and applied a vesta. He then mur-
mured his adored one’s name, and prepared to
pass over. But the first lickings of the
flames lagainst his ankles caused him to
alter his point of view, and his howls
of pain and grief attracted the notice of some
passing agriculturists, who hurriedly cut him
adrift. Barring a ruined wedding-suit and cer-
tain damage to his legs, he escape scatheless.
It s interesting to contrast his case with that of
the Australian youth in a similar plight. I can’t
call to mind a solitary instance of an Australian-
born young man even attempting felo de se as a
result of unrequited affection, though you may
hear of such things every day in the continent of
Europe. Where the disappointed Gaul’s thoughts
turn to the tomb, the Australian’s fly to the
nearest saloon-bar. A youth of my acquaint-
ance,' having been firmly declined for the
thirty-fourth time by the object of his choice,
decided the other day that she really couldn't be
enamored of him, and so he sheered hopelessly off.
Did he, however, elect to drop over Circular Quay
with a heavy stoneattached to hisneck; or to shoot,
strychnine, or dynamite himself? He did not.
He simply squared his jaw, and, by way of demon-
strating his independence, embarked on a pil-
grimage of the bars of the city. Like most
romantics, he is an inveterate quoter of poetry,
And so for a space the Halls of Drink were
deluged with a saccharine flood of Bret Harte,
and the regular drunks wondered dully what had
struck them. At last the barmaids implored the
rhyme-fancier, for the sake of the “house,” to “give
over.” Which in due course he did, and returned
home and sobered up, and was his own man once
more.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
A Bulletin correspondent in Japan gives
a remarkable example of the weak spot in
“ wireless ” :
About two o’clock on a Sunday morning- a few weeks
ago the operators of the wireless station at Choshi re-
corded a message that filled them with dismay. It was
an urgent call from some unknown steamer in mid Pacific
announcihg disaster and pleading for immediate assist-
ance. The operators could do nothing till they knew the
name of the ship and its whereabouts, and for this in-
formation they called in vain. To their repeated appeals
the only reply was : “ V.A. W.8.D.U.,” which, according
to the universal code, meant: “Boiler explosion. Send
help ! ” This being the only information available, it was
transmitted to the Marine Disaster Relief. Association in
Tokyo. There was a sensation in shipping and domestic
circles. The telegraph operators were besieged by ship-
owners and agents, and the shipping offices by those who
had friends at sea. Nor were things made clear until a
couple of days had passed, when the British “ Far Eastern ”
squadron arrived in port, and revealed the fact that about
150 miles off the Choshi coast they had been engaging in
wireless telegraph signal practice; and then it became
evident that it was a message caught from the manoeuvres
of the British ships that the Choshi operators had been
reporting to Tokyo, and making a sensation with.
The British Humanitarian League sent
this resolution last month to the Prime Minister,
the Lord Chancellor, the Home Secretary, and
the law officers of the Crown :
This committee desires to call the attention of the
Government to the continued infliction of the lash on
male offenders who are styled “ incorrigible "rogues ”
under a Georgian statute passed in 1824, notwithstanding
the expressed opinion of more than one Home Secretary
that such floggings ought to be abolished j and desires to
express the hope that until the Home Secretary can find
time to carry a Bill for the purpose through the House of
Commons, he will remit all such sentences of flogging,
the infliction of which is not in accordance with en-
lightened public opinion.
Flogging as a punishment for vagrancy—which is
to say, for the crime of being stone broke—is to be
found in no other part of the world than in
England. It is non-existent even in Scotland and
Ireland. A good deal of it obtains in the neigh-
borhood of the Big Smoke. Thus a Parliamentary
return issued in 1907 shows that in 1905-1906 no
less than 11 unhappy wretches were flogged for
being driven, by stress of poverty, to sleep
out. Sleeping out is a horrible offence in rural
England.
“ Jareel ” discourses on cabs :
I see that the taxi is wiping out the London cabby so
completely that Lord Rosebery has been impelled to
write to the British press on the subject, and the Daily
Mail has started a relief fund. “ Cabby is a good fellow,”
says Lord Rosebery in his letter ; and in proof the Daily
Mail allows various members of the craft to grow maud-
lin in its columns, and, putting on sackcloth, it mourns
the doomed Jehu with a wealth of wordy grief. Why? I
have ridden in a thousand London cabs, and, as a result,,
I hold that their vanishing is all for the good. Take, to
start with, the question of cruelty. No city on earth is
so hard on horses as London. Within four years, no
matter how carefully tended, they contract “seedy
toes ” —a form of foot-rot—and go dead lame. The
granite-like blocks knock the unhappy brutes’ legs to
pieces. You will find more splints, wind-galls, spavins,
injured ligaments, and swelled joints in the average Lon-
don cab-horse than in any half-dozen Melbourne or
Sydney ones. Possibly the chronically-greasy pavements
which bring the horses down continually have something
further to say to this. Punch, old-established convention,
and a score of other powerful factors have caused the
London cabby to be accepted broadcast as the
“good fellow” that Lord Rosebery acclaims him.
He is furthermore understood to be a humorist. During
a ten years' impartial scrutiny I could never discern
either trait in him. His public quips always struck me
as feeble—palpably culled from the comic sheets of the
hour. He is a humorist even as the Sydney tram-
traveller is a politician—the one gets his wit, and the
other his politics from a penny publication. As to his
“ good-fellowship,” he is the only toiler on the London
market who openly curses the customer that omits to
overpay him. No, Ido not grieve for the passing of the
London cabby ; in fact, I shall pay my next visit to the
Great Smoke with a lighter heart for that the march of
science has exterminated him.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
BY appointment
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
Dainty
Souvenir!)
SNoaavsNvui hsvo nv no iNnoosia jln3o ij ad ham
•01-6.?
CpUptU«iQ 'i
■%M a i|«uiinoX
&
S'? .
tfpvjdui«?«3 .up)|'3j^-snv
-9-5 ■ . ■:>
, spuouj*yrQ"3 ■ - • ,: - . \
■flS‘ f | i.i.! j np_L vi - • S.(i_> • '
■ - s 3!-s,.\
. pucmjs?i't3 "3 avi |'ei.u.Ji oq£
*t y id 7- 3vj»vt«ui«nb v . ' •> j'adQ sfpQjg, '
‘SIAI3D Nvnva±snv
Inspection
Invited.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
THE BEST
B&nkstown Building Land
From ss. a Foot, or
£l6 10s. a Section.
THIS land at Bankstown is our Greenacre Park Estate, and we
unhesitatingly pronounce it the best land in the district. It adjoins
the station, in fact, almost surrounds it, and is the only property on
which city water is obtainable. The Lots are as level as possible, many of
them commanding most extensive views of George’s River. At our price
the seeker after a home site cannot possibly make a mistake. Real solid
value are we giving for every penny of the purchase money. Terms for
these lots are from down, 10s. month.
Business Sites from £57155.
TERMS FROM
€1 DOWN,
10s. MONTH.
' There are just a few business sites left, and there’s
big money to be made by securing and holding on to
one or more. They are sure to increase in value, and
the wise buyer of to-day must reap a rich harvest.
Then, again, a bit further back are some small farm-
ing blocks. These are priced from £3O each, and are
excellent value for the money asked.
At any time our Resident Local Agent,
W. C. Tritton, opposite Railway Station,
will drive Visitors over the Estate .
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO. LTD.
848 PITT STREET, SYDNEY*
Specialists in Real Estate .
THE PIANOLA in Russia.
NOTE. —Moscow is the centre of the new Russian movement in music, and the Moscow Gonservatorium is one
of the most musical schools in Europe.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE AT MOSCOW, RUSSIA, WRITES
“The concert just given in the large hall of the Conservatory of Moscow, proved
biggest thing of the kind we have ever done. There were 3000 people present,
audience was wonderfully enthusiastic.
“I enclose programme herewith, which you will see contains the Grieg and
Concertos for Orchestra, and Rubinstein’s Concerto for two pianos, the solo part m
being played with the Pianola. I also played accompaniments for three songs with ttn
to be the
and the
Hummel
each case
3 Pianola.
“The demand for Pianolas here is very great, and is constantly increasing, Pven lie
Pianola with which I played at the big concert was sold before we left the hall.
“Please find enclosed an additional order to the one you already have for-The
Pianolas and Steck Pianola Pianos. It is of the utmost importance that all of our shipments
be hurried forward with greatest possible despatch.”
In different countries different pianos hold first place in public estimation. But in all countries IT IS INVARIABLY THE
is the recognised leader of its class. It is of the deepest significance that in Russia, England, Germany, France, th,s country,
Pianola’s sale exceeds that of all other Piano-players combined.
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
357 George Street
(Next D. Jones 6° Co.) j|oy^


E!SS
y
CSi.
n
, ft
(on
fe,:
SE
Royal
ii
Rustless Corsets
Are the acknowledged leaders
of the corset fashions of the
world—the Corsets that are
sought and demanded by the
smartest dressers.
Royal “P.D.” Corsets
are exquisitely modelled by
celebrated French corsetierres,
made of the finest materials,
and beautifully tailored
throughout. They slip on and
fit like a glove, moulding the
figure into the snug hip and
back —the long, graceful lines
of the present fashion —but
ensuring the utmost comfort
to the wearer. See that
Trade Mark is on every pair.
None genuine without it.
All Drapers and Store=
keepers Stock them!
EE
L i/.
HU
WI
tym&iSMa
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as going hand in hand as the first considerations in the
manufacture of the most desirable Motor Tyres —and
in no tyres will this trinity of features he found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,” and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne. June 7, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
The Power-Clarke wedding, despite its hundred
guests and the pomp of the procession, was really
in the way of being a quiet family affair—a sort of
station house-party. It take? a show like this at
Rupertswood to make one realise how the early
squatto.cracy has intermarried and spread, green-
baying, through the land. Except for a half-
dozen Hunt Club pals of the bridegroom, the
whole hundred were, close relations—sisters and
cousins, and aunts and uncles —of the newly-
weds. Cummings and Taylors and Powers and
Clarkes crowded along unto the third generation,
and shook the friendly shoe of luck to the doves.
Relationship even filtered through the Everard
Brownes to the Chirnsides, and in another
channel to the Gordon Lyons; and various other
Vast-acres were tapped in the puzzling by-ways
of relationship through marriage.
The affair was fixed up on the big plan of
hospitality -bred in gilded squatters’ country
homes by the atmosphere of big distances.
People in the country mostly have a vehicle
of some sort to trundle to the train; and,
thanks to big wool-prices and bigger rents, the
vehicle often runs nowadays to half a dozen of the
briskest motors. The Clarkes went one better
than meeting the train ; they annexed a couple of
express observation cars (it was a riiorniiig show),
and toted the party up from town. Then the
family motor and the four-in-hand and the two-
seated buggy and the hay waggon, also the dis-
used go-cart, and likewise the wheelbarrow, met
the train.
The bride was buskined and girdled in pearls,
clinging to a simple silken gown ; and her veil
was a piece of Limerick lace, at which the women
held their breath for pure envy. Bridegroom
Reggie Power wore a rosy blush all over his neck,
and a youthful bald patch in pale pink. But it
was Mrs. Rupprt who drew the eyes. Brother
George Cumming—that six-feet-five of bulk and
cheek clothes—brought the lady into church. She
is an ultra-finished sample of fashionable society.
The cutting and polishing show in every move
and manner. Her dress swathed and twisted
round a figure modelled according to the very
latest ideas. It was up-to-the-moment. It was
just It. Looking at the garment with ordinary
eyes, it turned the wearer into a graceful, lithe,
chocolate-colored queen. Brown transparent ninon
was fitted so tightly over shoulders and arms that
the outline was practically brown-skinned, witli a
glow of red blood showing through. Swathed
round the body was a barbaric scarf of bronze and
gold—tightly wound, showing every line. Gold
and bronze bands made elbow bracelets on the
chocolate arms, and a rope of pearls accented the
chocolate tint of the neck. A top-dressing of
tawny feathers served as headgear.
There was no scrambled wedding “breakfast,”
but a comfortable lunch, comfortably served in
the ballroom, the stars being put on a dais, so that
everyone might see both them and the famous
cake, which mounted to the ceiling. There were
a few quite unconventional speeches. Everard
Browne “barracked” pa Rupert in Australian
turfy language, and pa Rupert responded with a
tangled string of heart-felt “ verys.” Rupert had
his heart very much in this marrying.
The two grandfathers of the wedded ones are
remarkably good fellows. Mr. Tom Gumming,
the father of Mrs. Rupert Clarke, put in some
very hospitable host work. Mrs. Robertson (for-
merly Hilda Cumming), a handsome young
matron, was the veteran’s “ right-hand man,” and
it was her small child and an infant Cumming
who held up “auntie’s” train, whilst two blue-
clad cousins held the gloves and flowers and
frill-frail for “Phyl.” Muriel Cumming, the next-
to-be bride of the family, wore a purple tailor-
made and a worried look what time she
energetically helped behind the scenes. Mrs.
Cumming (the bride’s grandma), in matronly
black and a small Scotch “ bunnit,” viewed things
complacently, and vowed she’d go off “Home”
for a trip just as soon as she had “got Muriel off.”
Mrs. Emmerton —who is an aunt in some way
—was a pretty pewter-toned picture. Mrs.
Everard Browne—that buxom riding Australian—
loomed aggressively in white serge ; and there
were others by the dozen. The Everard Brownes,
by the way, lent their place at Colac to the honey-
mooners, who motored off in a thunderstorm to
pick up a far-away train across country. Hunting
George Blackwood was in debonair evidence. “The
whole farewelling Whiting family came along, the
two girls beaming out of Mother Hubbard
bonnets. Mr. and Mrs. Raleigh, who have such
a struggle to get their name pronounced “ as they
pronounce it in England,’ made a beauteous
group, the pretty missus being in blue with
squirrel furs.
The Rupertswood wedding presents had all the
delightful worry of the real thing. The butler
had to sit up all night with the presentation ta-
ra-ra and the diamond cuff buttons ; likewise the
half-dozen gold cigarette cases with hard-stone
finish, and the amethyst and pearl Sairey-Gamp
handle. A bit of charming simplicity in the
jewel-case was a flexible silver snake that Sister
Possum sent from Angland (you’re doomed in
sassiety unless you say Ang-land); and Sis' also
sent a silver-mounted portrait of her school-girl
self. “ Pos ” has grown into a remarkably pretty
girl; she was a baby when mamma took her away
from this crude land (where all her money grew),
and put her to the patent polishing grindstone of
a correct Cold-Country “seminary.”
The dining-room table was spread with the
cards and silver and gold of the wealthy. Even the
necessary hot-water can was splashed with gold.
A gold hot-water can ! Ostentation can no further
go. One side-table was labelled continuously and
often “With Daddy’s love.” It’s not often a
bride’s “ daddy ” has the nous (to use a classic) to
make presents like this daddy did. There were
luxurious dainties of bedroom frill—fine lawn and
galuniptious lace, and exquisite monogram on bed-
spread and laundry-bags and other wherewithal
of the toilet. Anon a day-dream of table
crystal—glasses for every wine, and even Water :
glass chosen by a connoisseur. Apart from this
dainty table, “Daddy” gave a furnished house
in South Yarra. The Scotch Church spread itself
over quarter of an acre of space with a silver
ornament—or something that looked like silver—
and the Hunt Club leased another 40-acre paddock
for its trophy covered with silver horns and horses
and other tally-ho expressions.
The violets at Rupertswood were enrapturing.
They crowded together in bunches and bowls.
They made the drawing-room like a Bernhardt
room ; for the Bernhardt, as all the world knows,
has violets in heaps all round her, and keeps them
a long time that she may wallow in the perfume
of their dying hours.
There were three brothers Cumming, with three
big Western District sheep runs; but their for-
tunes originated from their father’s brewery.
Mrs. Rupert Clarke’s grandfather was the pioneer
Cumming, and “Cumming’s Brewery” was a
landmark of old Geelong. Geelong is a
place of much tradition; yet every early
Geelongite manages to remember the brewery
at the far end of the town. Grandma
Currvming increased the family fortunes in no
small way by a side branch of the industry. In
those days the housewives of Geelong made their
own bread. Old Mrs. Cumming sat every day
behind a small wicket, and served out bottles of
yeast to the countryside.
“ Tom ”■ Cumming, Mrs. Rupert’s father, was
one of the'pioneers in big prices for stock. Many
years ago, when he bought the. famous ram Sir
Thomas, lie paid the biggest price on record in
Australia. Mount Fyans was his station at the
time, though he has since given that over. He
retired only this year from a long presidency of
the Royal Agricultural Society. Besides, he was
secretary of the Sheepbreeders’ Association, and
spent years bucking against bad fortune in keep-
ing it up. Of his experience of the young genera-
tion of squatters—sons of men who made the pilesof
money —he speaks bitterly. He asserts vigorously
and often that these beautiful young men, who
owe all their wealth to their fathers’ energy,
never give a fraction of interest to sheep breeding,
and think of nothing but loafing over the bar at
Scott’s or getting up excitement at a race meeting.
The vain effort to reconcile its hopes with its
disappointments caused the Age to get frightfully
flurried during the “crisis.” The day after
Brime Minister Fisher’s resignation, when dealing
with the Power-Clarke wedding, it told its readers
that “ Sir Rupert and Lady Clarke received their
guests in the drawing-room, the former being
beautifully gowned in a sheath gown of old-gold
ninon-de-soic —a large black chip hat completing a
rccherchd costume.” Rupert has worn some
chippy hats in his time, but an old-gold sheath
gown—never !
The Glassy Hamm is like to burst. It is look-
ing apoplectic and making incoherent sounds in
its throat in the,endeavor to express the greatness
of its new lady skater. This is how they got her :
Through the courtesy of Mr. D. H. Ross, Commissioner
for Canada, coupled with the assistance of Mr. G. M.
Murray, general secretary, and Mr. Stully, assistant
secretary, and Mr. Dakers Cameron, Montreal local secre-
tary of the Canadian Manufacturing Society, the engage-
ment of Miss Baker-Edwards was arranged on behalf of
the management of the Melbourne Glaciarium.
Stully and Mully and Ross and Dakers Cameron
must be hard-working fellows to manage a thing
like that all on their own. But there—what
woman could resist our own D. 11. Ross? I have
no breath left for Miss Baker-Edwards’ exploits
and medals; but she took the Earl Grey Blue
Ribbon. And even if I had the breath, what
more could I say than that ?
The same old crowd came to heel as soon as the
Pictures moved away and the ice field grew again.
Mrs. Will Robertson, possibly the most graceful
of the many good skaters, glode round in black
fox furs and a blue tailor-rig. Nan O’Hara led a
tribe of younger O’Haras, all muffled cheerfully
in furs. The grown-up bird of the Taits en-
veloped herself in velvet and too many petticoats,
and topped her black locks with an enormous
busby. Mrs. Judge Casey contented herself with
watching. Mrs. Allen and Mrs. Thomas, those
gay sister-matrons, valiantly pushed their way
into the circles. Medico Davenport left his
patients to die peaceably—he intended to get
every ounce of vim out of the fresh field.
Critical eyes turned to the new skater-lady,
Miss Edwards Baker, wearing a red poppy in her
white cap. These skater women, when they
make a profession of it,- get faces set like icicles.
Cutting figures must be intense work when it is
for criticism ; nevertheless, the gay unprofessional
skater mostly manages to keep a cheerful expres-
sibn. The new lady’s cutting-up is of a type all
its own —a most graceful glide, more sedate and
dignified than the jovial freedom of local ice-
sassiety here. Clearly, “ the season ” is going to
be a goer. The beauteous young men have
been going in for intense culture in the dim
early hours, and if there are to be plenty of the
male bird, then the female penguins will soon find
their interest grow.
There is not much of the muling bread-and-
butter Miss about the Australian school-girl.
Hockey teams have been springing up like mush-
rooms—not tom-boyish teams, yet wildly, richly
alive. It isn’t a gentle sport, this hockey. The
players thwack each other over bead and shoulder
and foot. Strong, high-padded leather boots are
a necessity, or broken ankles would be common.
The girl players are mostly blood-thirsty young
amazons when : they get going with their
clubs. On Saturday, Adelaide played Melbourne
’Varsity undergrads at the ’Varsity grounds,
and the male undergrad came in swarms
to “barrack” his own pet gown and trencher. Mel-
' bourne maidens won by three goals after a lively
skirmish.. There was a dinner for the double
team .at the Mia Mia the same evening ; and then
what a Princess Ida change from yelling warriors
to soft, silken-clad doves !
.“Bill” Dyson’s last day of picture-showing was
turned into a jolly-good-fellow farewell; for
William leaves for New York, after a brief Syd-
ney spell, in two or three weeks. Fellow artists
asked him to a supper that last evening—took
possession of the studio, and set the ambrosia on
improvised tables down the centre of the room.
There were sister artists as well as brethren, and
many also of the merely “artistically-inclined.”
Mrs. Blake and Ruby Lindsay helped in the
hostessing ;- Miss Ettie Dyson, a poster-pretty
girl, got herself into glad rags of white satin ; and
Mrs. Gavan Duffy and Mrs. McCubbin provided
other glad touches to the throng. Little Dr.
Maloney wore a red tie, and did some
of the speaking, and “Poster” Blamire Young
(with a mere ordinary tie) did some more.
Then Will Dysbn rounded off the speeches with
some quaint humor, picturing himself a-shiver in
the smallest room on the topmost storey of the
highest sky-scraper in New York, huddled over a
fire made of rejected drawings, with a solitary
tear trickling over his nose and dropping to put
out the fire. But the real thing is not going to be
a bit like that.
Last Wednesday. Dr. Walter Summers sealed
his doom at Holy Trinity Church, Kew, with Dr.
Viva St. George Sproule. Viva St. George, who
is tall, handsome and academic in style, and car-
ries a crowning glory of beautiful raven hair,
practised at the Queen Victoria Hospital,
whilst Dr. Summers did good work as house-
surgeon at the Austin Hospital for Incurables.
The bride wore a gown of white cripe-de-chine
and a bridal veil of old point. In her train were
four maids —two sisters Sproule, Kitty Summers,
and Dr. Muriel Davies, the last a daughter of the
nearly-forgotten Mathew. They all empired in
blue-satin charmeuse and large black hats, with
blue under-facings, and they carried ebony
sticks. Altogether seven doctors and two nurses
“assisted.” The happy pair are to start domes-
ticity at Eaglebawk, where they will jointly cure
the sick and mend the damaged.
The oft-repeated rumor of a marriage engage-
ment between a bulky old politician and a highly
substantial widow gives new promise of being
brought to a head at the altar. In all respects
the hero of this droll romance is looming less large
than he did six months ago. Having shrunk poli-
tically, he is now engaged in reducing his physical
figure to reasonable bridegroom proportions. A
sporting friend tells me that the veteran has
already “taken off three stone,” and is still
dieting himself and taking all sorts of measures
to get himself “fit.” “Now, when a stout,
elderly widower picks a quarrel with his old
habitual rotundity, and starts to fight it to a
finish,” says my sporting friend, “ there is always
a widow in the case.”
Doris Carter, bound for Europe, is to have a
send-off concert at the Town Hall on Tuesday (15th).
There was a meeting a month ago, with Wax-
cellenr v Madden in the chair, whereat subscrip-
tions to the total of 70 guineas were promised, and
an influential committee was formed. Therefore
the farewell is practically an assured financial
success, and nobody will begrudge it to her. Some
nine years ago, when she was hardly 15,- Miss
Carter was left an orphan—one parent dying soon
after the other—and the care of four younger
members of the family fell to her. Previously she
had taken an A.N. A. gold medal for singing, and
subsequently' she won first prize for soprano solo
at the Ballarat South-street competitions. It was
then that Waxcellency Madden, in awarding the
prizes, said that her voice was worth a chance of
foreign travel, and the girl who has had “Europe”
breathed in her musical ear by a broguev man is
never happy till she gets there. It’s a nice voice
that she will take ’Ome with her—a lyric soprano,
rather on the mezzo side, and young enough to be
easily capable of improvement.
The cadets who swarmed at the matinees of
“An Englishman’s Home” (to get an English
“moral lesson” which their young Australian
minds couldn’t possibly digest) were eulogised in
the daily papers for their orderly behavior.
Orderly ! The brown young imps kept up such a
babel of chatter between the acts that the orchestra
might as well have been performing in dumb show.
Press notices.of the previous cadets’ matinee had
stated that the voices of the infantry were hushed
to silence, so that one might hear a pin drop,
when an officer blew his whistle. On this second
occasion the officers must all have left their
whistles at home. One couldn’t have heard a ton
of coals drop.
The “ Plevna” Ryans give a two-step this week
at the Masonic Hall to “ introduce ” their only
girleen May, who has been circulating abroad for
two years with her mother. She is credited
with much brains, and a talent in the direction of
French comedy writing.
Douglas Hamilton’s three songs, which issued
from Allan’s the other week, arrived at publica-
tion under difficulties. The composer couldn’t
afford to take all the risk, so half a dozen friends
formed a syndicate, nominally to buy a half-share
in his royalties. With a syndicate to sing their
praises, the songs are selling very freely. Hamil-
ton, for his part, advertised his name by jumping
off a boat and saving a woman at Gisborne (M.L.),
the billows being so rough and chilly at the time
that the rescuer was confined to his bed for a fort-
night. For this heroic performance the actor
has received the Royal Humane Society’s medal.
Talking of the present Chapman-Alexander
combination, a tale is told by a lady who was
in London when Mr. Alexander, the singing
member of the “mission,” had Rev. Mr. Torrey
in tow. Their show was a complete frost in
the Big Smoke. They tried to fill the Albert
Hall, in the first instance, and found themselves
holding forth to. thousands of empty seats. Then
they tried a smaller hall, and it was there that my
informant struck the incident she relates. Rev.
Torrey had been praying and preaching a while,
when a bald-headed business-like little man stood
up during a convenient pause and said to the
evangelist: “You impostor! I know you, you
impostor ! ” The audience—mostly womankind—
rustled in their places, expecting a lively
altercation ; but Mr. Torrey wasn’t to be
lured into asking for details. He just went on
evangelising as though nothing had happened.
The interjector, who seemed to have .a train to
catch, looked at his watch as he walked towards
the aisle, paused again when he got to the end of
the row of seats and repeated his allegation, “ You
impostor!” said he. Torrey went on talking.
Finally, the unconverted sinner stepped again
before leaving the building, shook an accusing
forefinger at the preacher, and shouted, “ You
im-pos-tor!” Then he went away, leavingthe ladies
present to wonder what he knew. His bustling,
confident manner suggested that, like the uncom-
municative wedding guest in the music-hall song,
“ He knew enough to break their ’earts, but he
wasn’t a-going to tell.”
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
There has been genuine mourning for Premier Tom
Price. Not only had he done much for the State, but
always he had done it without ostentation, never pre-
tending to be more than he was, and his earnestness and
his sincerity were so obvious and so real. And in this
course Mrs. Price supported and helped him. Everybody
—it is much to say, but one can even go that far—
sj’mpathises with her and her bunch of boys and girls.
The funeral was a public one ; and it seemed that
every man in the place, from his Ex. onwards, was there.
Thousands followed the hearse on foot. The . public
schools were closed, and Archbishop O’Reily asked the
Catholic schools to follow suit, “in memory of a great
and good man.” In spite, of the notice “No flowers,”
hundreds of pounds’ worth had already been ordered ;
and the hearse and several carriages were concealed
beneath them. Sometimes Adelaide makes a festival of
its funerals ; but this was a day of sincere mourning.
A congress has been sitting here to consider the tough
problem of dependent children ; and Miss Vida Goldstein,
who had a finger in the pie, took the opportunity to assist
with other cookery. For one thing, she called in a few
interested folk, and formed a Women’s Political Associa-
tion, which is going to see that our sex gets paid accord-
ing to its worth in future. It has other objects just as
worthy, and it threatens to flourish accordingly. Then she
bustled some more to interest Adelaide’s Intellect in the
movement to establish an Australian repertory theatre,
which will play Bernard Shaw and Ibsen and Ourselves ;
but even the promise that it will play Ourselves didn’t
make Adelaide enthusiastic—which wasn’t remarkable,
seeing that we don’t property support one common or
garden theatre. Besides, consider our feelings ! Why,
when “Sister Beatrice” was repeated at the Lyric Club
last week, much of the audience looked pained, and asked
each other if it was quite “ the thing.” We like good
little plavs that go to Sunday-school regularly.
Champion weather should have made the first day
of the A.R.C. meeting a jewel of an occasion ; but some-
how it didn’t. There really was nothing thrilling in
either frocking or racing. To a few, the most interesting
“among those present” was A 1 Caaba, who paid a £U
dividend, and wore a handsome chestnut costume.
Sweet Nell Stewart has got us firmly by the heart,
and vacant seats at the Royal now o’ nights gape oniy by
accident. By the time you read this, Sweet Nell, without
inverted commas, will be giving us a retaste of “Sweet
Nell ” with inverted commas—the former being an Aus-
tralian, you understand ; the latter of Old Drury.
Invitations are out for the Mayoral kiddies’ ball on
June 25. It is to be fancy dress, of course, with a
polonaise managed by Hugo Leschen. Each invitation
has an explanatory circular and an attendant’s pass, so
that no babe will be mislaid if that accident can possibly
be avoided. Her Ex. and her brace of daughters will be
present.
The Adelaide Club, in a spasm of energy, has decided to
move down North Terrace, burst into'the long-empty
Ayers house opposite the Botanic Gardens, and ask us in
to dance. They' had a frivol of this kind once before, and
it was such a thing of joy that old residents still mention
it in whispers. July 7 is marked off for the event—five
evenings after the Rowing Club’s annual whirl in the
North Adelaide Institute.
The Norwood Holdens have circulated cards for a revel
of some proportions at the St. Peter’s Town Hall. It has
some connection, though I don’t know what, with the
District Trained Nurses’ Association, and an exciting
feature of the proceedings is the announcement that the
guests will assemble at the Norwood Town Hall, whence
electric cars will whiz them, free of freight charges, to
St. Peter’s. A free tram ride —evidently host and hostess
know their Adelaide !
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


SHOULD THE
FACE BE
POWDERED ?
sc
There is scarcely a
household in the civil-
ised world but some
of its members use pow-
der. But it must not be
supposed that the use is
prompted by vanity. So
many men use it after
shaving; surely no one can
accuse man of vanity !
There is a sound reason for
the use of powder, as there
is a theory for its use. Whose
skin is inclined to
dryness should use
“fat” powders.
Whose skin is moist
orinclined to greasi-
ness should use “ab-
sorbent ” powders.
The science of medi-
cine has long ago re-
cognised the neces-
sity for this distinc-
tion. It has, how-
ever, been left to
Mile. Helena Ru-
binstein, the Vien-
nese Compl e x i o n
Specialist, to be the
firsttoapplyitto the
practical purpose of
the care of the com-
plexion. For, say
what one may, hear
what one may, it
would be flying in the face of well-settled
facts to deny that the use of a high-class
face powder is of the greatest benefit to
the preservation of a satisfactory com-
plexion. Powder is not merely a comfort,
but also a protector to the skin from all
external irritations. But here, as in other
numberless instances, it is necessary to find
the right preparation.
Mile. Rubinstein,- who has had the good
fortune to introduce the Skin Food, Malaze,
has had the further good, fortune of having
had this eminent specialist to prepare for her
the VALAZE POWDER, in which is em-
bodied a high percentage of the ingredients of
which the- Valaze Skin Food is composed.
When that has been said, no higher assurance
of its value can be
Ju !
Lr
'T'U try- . /~x~ O?-
Vu.( .K. ~f\-ijLt~-r><*-SL aL sta-tlUj
Cl <LXr 8 4*. CX«
S'/C'vL -£o-<j-* o- T^-ry
t- <L «_ <W £-£«_ t- A- U*-c~.(j-Lk.
j^S >r - £a*«
vf /■*_ c. svti. Jvl.lvi.'!) -
Lg*o ' A ■< h
£(_ i-a OCt. (x—-\ (r ficAxrb-Cf
<-y-» A»w CX>-<—£T «-—a
k-ot£C_ .
given, because
Yalaze is by general
consent the one
Complexion Beauti-
fier and Corrective
without which it is
impossible to do
justice to the skin
whatever may be
the season of the
year, or whatever
may be the climate.
Valaze Powder is
an “absorbent”
powder, the ad-
hering qualities of
which have become
proverbial amongst
those who use it.
Although it ad-
heres so well, it does
not clog up the
pores, and although absorbent it still
promotes evaporation of the skin’s super-
fluous moisture.
The other powder Mile. Rubinstein
supplies is Novena Poudre, which is a
“ fat ” complexion powder for dry and
normal skins, being the only powder of its
kind which is a skin food as well. It
causes the skin beneath it to remain succu-
lent, firm and supple. The price of each
powder is the same, and both are to be
had in four tints—flesh, white, pink and
cream.
In the left corner of this article is the
likeness of Miss RUTH VINCENT,
Queen of the Savoy, she has been called,
and surely the sweetest of sweet singers.
In the Belle of Brittany now running in
the Queen’s Theatre, she is the bright par-
ticular star. Con-
cerning the Valaze
Powder she writes
that it is very re-
freshing and the
best she has ever
used.
Miss LILY
ELSIE, of Daly’s
Theatre, who has
the happy distinc-
tion of creating the
name part in the
most successful
musical comedy
ever seen in Lon-
don—a nd how
inimitably she re-
presents the ever-
fascinating “ Merry
Widow ” the whole
world knows—says
in the letter reproduced under her like-
ness, that the Yalaze Powder is exception-
ally good. The price is 25., 3s. & ss. a box.
WLIPHONg N 9 8130 QIRRARO
STAGt MANAGERS DEPARTMENT.
DALY’S THEATRE,
Leicester Square.
LONDON.*.
Gj-cOs Lov^lf
V&va c '^w
/~>P~zUp
1 1'Uk
<3\a->-\_Sl/v QaR
oco
C^*LsU\
j . A preparation
which should be
mentioned when
powders are spoken
of is VALAZE
SNOW LOTION.
It not only refreshes,
cools, and whitens
the skin in hottest
weather, but also enables
it to retain that dull, ivory
finish so much sought after.
It is supplied in three shades—
white, pink and cream —and the
price is 3/6 a bottle. Postage 6d.
The tonic properties
of the Yalaze Skin-
food mentioned be-
fore keep the skin in
healthy stimulation,
with the result that
the skin is free from
wrinkles, muddiness
and blotches. The
price of Yalaze is
3/6 and 6/6 a jar.
Postage 6d.
Other specialties for
scientific and compe-
tent treatment of. the
complexion will be
found described in
Mile. Rubinstein’s in-
teresting book, ‘Beauty
iri the Making,’ which
can be obtained from
her on application, en-
closing 3d. for postage.
Ail Chemists, or direct from EVSIIe. HELENA RUBIN-
STEIN, Dept. B.,Valaza Institute, 158 a PiTT STREET,
SYDNEY; 274 COLLINS STREET, MEL3OURNE; 23
BRANDON STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
BRAND YOUR
SHEEP
wrrti
%
v '
,t 7 v
Ol
/ .
i i
'W
I*
I
birtUttliiniymnimirrmi
BLACK? RED CSL BLUE- (In 8-Gallon Cases).
4s. Per Gallon.
1-Gallon Tins
4s. Od. each
Kempton, Tasmania, sth September, 1905.
Dear Sirs,—lt is preferable to any I have ever used ; the longer it stands on the
sheep, the more plainly it shows. (Signed) JAMES HADDON, Senr. ,
“ Coorawong,” via Ooonamble, N.S. W., 16th May, 1905.
Dear Sirs, —I have been using “ Kemp’s Sheep Branding Liquid” for a number of
years. I find “ Kemp’s ”is the best. I will continue using it.
(Signed) A. J. HOWABO,
Agents in MELBOURNE (Dalgety &. Co. Ltd.>.
„ SYDNEY (E. RICH & Co., Ltd.).
~ „ ADELAIDE CD. &. J. Fowler Ltd.).
„ „ KINGSTON) S.A. (Dalgety &. Co. Ltd.).
„ „ BRISBANE CE. RicK &. Co. Ltd.).
„ „ ROCKHAMPTON CDalg'ety &. Co., Ltd.).
„ „ TOWNSVILLE CDalg'ety &. Co. Ltd.).
„ „ FREMANTLE (Dalgety &. Co. Ltd.).
„ ~ HOBART (Win. Crosby &. Co.).
„ „ LAUNCESTON CW. T. Bell & Co. Ltd.).
KEMP’S PATENT SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID IS NOT AN OIL AND
WILL NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER
THIRTY years of assiduous study of The Hair and its Treat-
ment, and all Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and
Hair, have given me the means of Preserving the Hair,
and producing a new, growth after all other preparations have
failed. lam now in a position to treat advanced cases of
Baldness with every possibility of success. Almost impossible
cases are now yielding to my skill.
\
Gentlemen who are going bald should use SPECIAL
PARASENE and COSMO LOTION, one at night and the other
in the morning.
Price (with postage), two months’ treatment; Victoria,
10/6 ; four months’, 20/- Other States, 11/6 and 22/-
Ladies with hair falling out shouM apply RESTORER at
night and COSMO LOTION in the morning.
CONVINCING TESTIMONY.
Queensland, 21/2/’O9.
Mr. Holland.
Dear Sir, —Enclosed please
find ,£1 note for a supply of
Parasene and Cosmo. lam
pleased to inform you that
my hair is growing very well
again. lam very thankful
to you for your splendid
remedies. lam quite sure no
one need be bald or have thin
hair if they will give your
treatment a fair trial. I was
quite bald on the top of my
head ; now everyone is re-
marking how well my hair is
growing. Wishing you every
success, I remain, yours grate-
fully, F. PI. Murray.
Plere is a case of Scalp
Trouble:
Mr. COOLSTAD writes
from W.A., stating that the
PARASENE and Exerno sup-
plied to him has removed the
irritation ' of the scalp, and is
producing a splendid growth
of strong,.thick, healthy hair
on his bald head.
Mr. Rodgers, W.A.,
writes: After using your pre-
parations for a few months,
my hair is showing every sign
of being as good as ever it was.
One of the Melbourne
Doctors says : “If anything
will make the hair grow, these
preparations will.”
Another Doctor says:
“Mr. Holland has treated
my wife and daughter’s hair
most successfully. I can re-
commend his preparations
with confidence, knowing
them to be of the most genuine
character.”
NATURALINE is a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. It acts quickly, naturally and
effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No. i for Light Brown Hair; Medium for Medium Brown Hair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ; Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
PRICE —Victoria, with postage, 0/3 ; Other States, 0/8.
Mr. Scott, of Sydney, is no longer authorised to act as Agent for the sale of my preparations,
nor to receive moneys on my behalf.
E. HOLLAND,
Hair 195 Collins Street,
Specialist, MELBOURNE.


DR. SHELDON’S MAGNETIC LINIMENT
Cures rheumatism. It will penetrate to your very bones,
soothe and subdue the pain. Rub it in freely. It will
not blister or burn the skin. Rub it in, and the pain will
stop. It can’t help but do you good. For sale every-
where, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Walter Bradley & Go.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining 1 Room Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
So much prominence has been given to the
danger lurking in a bottle of medicine containing
opium or other narcotics that it is the duty of
every mother to know something about the
medicines she is giving her child.
We want every mother to know that she can
give Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to her young-
est child much confidence as to the oldest
member of the family, for it contains no opium or
other narcotics.
This is not merely an assertion of our own, but
each bottle bears the Government analysis show-
ing that Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has been
officially declared free from all narcotics.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
Sbfe that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
WOMEN’S DISEASES.
“ Many a woman is but a bundle of nerves and
a headache,” said a well-known practitioner.
Nature has condemned woman to periodical ill-
ness which would sap the vitality of a strong:
man. Dizziness, vertigo, anaemia, headaches, are
but a few of the symptoms that manifest them-
selves. These troubles can be avoided or
mitigated by a careful toning of the system.
If the digestive organs are in good con-
dition, the liver active and the blood free from
impurities, the cause of the trouble disappears.
FRANZ JOSEF Natural Aperient Water works
wonders for suffering woman. Begin to-morrow
with a wineglassful before breakfast. Its action
is mild, its taste pleasant. It will sweep the body
clean of its toxins, and put you on the road to
strength and health. Franz Josef Springs.*
BLOOD IS THIN
AFTER SUMMER
Anaemia is Very Prevalent at
Present Time*
A Woman Who was Weak and
Miserable Tells How She
Increased Her Blood Supply.
It is a fact that bloodlessness is more prevalent
at the present time—the end of summer —than at
any time of the year. There are a greater num-
ber of pale women and girls with dragging steps
and tired, worn-out looks The tendency of warm
weather is always to make the blood thin. When
the blood is thin, pale faces, dragging steps, lack
of energy, often indigestion and heart palpitation,
and amongst growing girls retarded development
and distressing headaches result.
To restore the system to its natural state of
health, more blood is an absolute necessity. To
acquire more blood a medicine should be taken
which is known to make blood. There is thirteen
years’ record behind the fact that Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People make new blood.
That’s what they are for. The famous doctor
who first compounded them had all the drugs ever
discovered at his disposal, and results prove that
he made the greatest blood producing medicine
that has ever been prescribed. When they have
made new blood, headaches, listlessness, sideaches,
indigestion, heart palpitation and all the trouble-
some symptoms disappear.
This woman, whose health broke down after a
trying summer, was restored by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills.
“Some time ago my health got run down,”
said Mrs. Celia Donley, 99 Henderson Road.
Erskineville, Sydney. “All my color left me.
I was drawn and white and so thin you
would not know rrie for the same woman. For
weeks at a time I’d be crazed with pains on
the top of my head. I had to get someone
in to do my housework. Often I felt so sick
I could not lift my head off the pillow. As to
food, I hardly touched anything. Everything
seemed to taste alike and I got no nourishment
from it. The food I did take lodged in my chest
for hours. My nerves were in a bad state ; I’d
start at a shadow or the least noise. My heart
would start palpitating without any apparent
cause. I never slept well. Practically I never
went outside the door. I was wretched in spirits
and seemed to have no strength at all. One day
a friend, seeing how poorly I was, brought me a
box with seven Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills in it,
and said ‘Just give them a trial, they may suit
you.’ I had no faith in them, but I took them.
Those seven pills did me so much good that I sent
and bought a box for myself. I began to feel
brighter and stronger, and the frightful headaches
began to ease off. The second box helped me still
more. As I kept on with Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills I got steadily better. The fifth box found me
cured completely. My health since then has been
perfect.”
It’s important to get the genuine with Dr.
Williams’ name. A shopman once told us that
only “mugs” bought the cheap imitations he
offered. Even the storekeeper doesn’t think
much of the person he can get to take a substitute.
They are sold by chemists and storekeepers, price
2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d.; or they will be
sent direct on receipt of price by the Dr. Williams’
Medicine 00. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.*
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLTICAL
POINTS
A Commonwealth return shows that during
the financial year 1907-8 the States raised about
£5,250,000 of loan money for permanent and re-
productive works. No less than £70,000 of this
amount was spent on the one small item of wire-
netting for rabbit-proof fences. Now, wire-
netting isn’t permanent; it’s transient. And it’s
not reproductive, though the rabbits are. Surely
Australia can erect a bunny-proof fence without
borrowing from Manasseh and his brother Gilead.
THE MOULTING SEASON.
THE FUSICOOK: “ Well , I've reached the top
all right, hut I've lost most uv me feathers in
gettin' here, an’ the atmosphere's rather in-
clined t’ be chilly!”
The council of Coburg (Vic.) shire is
hardly in what might be called the van of muni-
cipal progress, yet it has one small success to its
credit. A while ago it connected two and two,
and reached the conclusion that it was paying the
contractors too much for road metal. So it bought
a stone-crusher of its own, and leased a quarry ;
and the engineer now reports that, after interest,
working expenses, depreciation, and all other
charges have been allowed for, he has during the
last six months metalled his roads at 3s. 2d. per
yard, which is only about 57 per cent, of what Pri-
vate Enterprise had charged. As Prahran munici-
pality has just bought a quarry of its own, one
class of Private Enterprise in Melbourne isn’t
feeling too good just now.
One Labor member has had the wisdom to
publicly recant his fiscal atheism. Page, member
for Maranoa (Q.), stood up in the Reps, the other
day to announce that henceforth he would be found
an “out and out Protectionist.” Now Australia
is waiting to hear from Hughes, Mahon, Thomas
and Pearce.
When Bamford, M.H.R., presented the
House with a mile and a quarter of petition in
favor of Australian unification the other night,
Wilson, M. H.R., an almost invisible State Fright,
arose and suggested that “ a committee of the
House be appointed to ascertain if all the signa-
tories are perfectly sane.” This was really most
ungenerous, seeing that, with extraordinary for-
bearance, everybody has hitherto refrained from
moving that the Lunacy Department be instructed
to test the sanity of Wilson’s constituents.
As expected, the Vic. Murray Government
is not strongly attracted by the scheme to im-
prove Melbourne’s port accommodation by making
a straight cut, but is.showing some affection for a
proposal to build another pier. This would pro-
bably cost from a quarter to half a million, while
the straight cut would absorb £3,ooo,oooand
three millions looks a heap of money these times
when Bull-Cohen isn’t biting well. Yet another
pier will be only a temporary patch on a per-
manent trouble, and the permanent trouble will
have to be faced some day.
One wonders if the Fusionists gave a
thought to the fate that overtook the last Coali-
tion Ministry—the one that defeated Watson. Of
its eight members only three remain in Parlia-
ment—Reid, Dugald Thomson, and Senator
Symon—and not one of them now counts for
much. Turner retired, full up ; and Allan
McLean, McCay, Sydney Smith and Drake were
promptly bumped out by the electors. In those
days the “fusers” had the master-tactician,
Yes-No, to help them along ; now he is sure to
prove a poor friend if not an open enemy. And
the elections are nearer now than they were then.
The Torrens district, in which a vacancy
has been created by the death of Premier Price,
is the largest numerically in S.A., and at the last
election it returned five Labor members. It is
practically identical with the Federal electorate
of Boothby, which is represented by Batchelor.
Yet, in spite of that. Labor doesn’t face the
coming contest with any degree of certainty. The
Leg. Council seat that had to be filled when
Price’s old colleague Kirkpatrick went to the
Agent-General’s office passed to the Opposition ;
and there are other signs that somehow the party
has been losing its grip.
Winston Churchill, on behalf of the
British Government, is introducing an Anti-
Sweating Bill, intended to raise wages. And all
the time the British Government remains obsti-
nately Freetrade, and lets the product of horribly-
sweated Russian Jews and Asiatics be dumped
into the country ! To raise wages, without handi-
capping the foreign low-wage competitor, simply
means handing over to him a few more of Britain’s
vanishing industries—means reducing the ranks
of the half-starved, but adding to those of the
altogether-starved.
The Cabinet of Newton Moore, of Wes-
tralia, which suffered some changes recently, is
likely to soon suffer more. The billet of Agent-
General for the State in London will be vacant in
a month or two, and Moore is said to be consider-
ing himself as Rason’s successor. Moore isn’t
saying much about the subject, but two or three
of his colleagues are allowing themselves to be
mentioned as possible candidates for the expected
vacant Premiership. Wilson, the Colonial Trea-
surer, is favorite ; but Mitchell and Gregory don’t
see any better reason why Wilson should have it
than certain other persons.
The member of the Fisher Government
who probably raked in most new votes for the party
was its Defence Minister, Pearce. The military—
officers, rank and file—swear by him, because he
proposed to settle the Defence problem in a way
that appealed to the trained men. Pearce had
gone into the matter with them, and the result is
that thousands who otherwise would have glee-
fully voted Anti-Sosh are now openly proclaiming
that next election they will vote for the party that
Pearce belongs to. Even if it is Sosh, they say, it
does things, while Anti-Sosh is just stagnation
from a Defence standpoint.
Some news (already noted) from Adelaide :
Altogether 1,000,000 acres of good agricultural land
were discovered by the recent Parliamentary expedition,
on which 700 farmers can be settled if opened up by 90
miles of light railway.
Seven hundred farmers settled by 90 miles of light
railway, costing, say, £lBO,OOO, or at the rate of
something over £250 per farmer ! Instead of a light
railway, why not —for a start, anyway—try a
heavy land-tax ? That plan wouldn’t cost the
State £250 per farmer, but, instead, would put a
good few pounds into the Treasury.
Once more, when it comes down to hard
practice, the S. M. Herald (l/G/’O9) throws over-
board the “sacred principle ” and the “inalienable
boon ” of Freetrade :
Of late years we have been exporting large numbers of
our very best stud sheep to South Africa and to
South America. And to what end ? To enable
those countries to improve the fleeces of their
flocks to a point at which they may better compete
with the Commonwealth in the wool markets of the
world. Are we wise in permitting the exportation of
stud merinos to other lands ivhose aim, is to become our
competitors l
The answer is, we aren’t. And the prohibition
of such exports, which the S. M. Herald suggests
in order to stop the movement, is the only one
that is likely to be effective. But it is the rankest
brand of what, at election times, the Herald
damns as “Protectionism.” Apropos there are
other industries—the horse industry, to cite an
example—that could well do with the common-
sense measure of Protection which the Herald
advocates for the jumbuck trade.
Tom Playford, who made a poor fist of the
job of Defence Minister in Deakin’s second
Ministry, and was then squeezed out of political
existence between the Labor candidates and the
National Ass., intends to have another shot for
election to the Senate next year.
THE POLITICAL TOWER OF BABEL.
Cabled that the Beef Trust of Chicago, the
greatest Trust in the world, which already has its
tentacles on the Argentine, is rolling its hideous
eye Australia-wards. Federal authorities must
block this move without delay. Wherever this
cormorant combine has got a footing, the result
has been enormous profits to itself, reduced price
to raisers of stock, notwithstanding a diminished
supply of cattle for the market, and increased
prices to butchers, and consequently to consumers.
Loss, ruin, death, wait on the triumphal progress
of the Beef Trust.
Joe “Dreadnought” Ward’s army is
getting more attention than Joseph probably
cares for. On paper he has a militia of 85,000.
(This includes all men from 17 to 55.) The num-
ber of officers required to handle that lot would be
3491; and Joe has just 150 on the active list!
Also the 85,000 men have 20,000 rifles, so in case
of trouble the other 65,000 would have to give
themselves the word of command, and then aim
with hay-forks and slip-rails. It would be a fine
coping to the Dreadnought fury if Asquith pasted
these figures on the back of Maoriland’s 1 O U,
and told Ward to sweep up in front of his own
doorstep.
“ Oudeis,” from London ;
Went the other afternoon to assist at the official open-
ing of the Victorian office, in the Strand —a thin, lone-
some slice of six-storey brickwork up-ended on the most
expensive vacant building lot in all London. The
ceremony happened in the very top storey of the six, to
which we all marched, two by two, up a narrow winding
stair. By the time the top was reached the thin
atmosphere of joy surrounding the occasion had been
dissipated, but Taverner’s smile and some champagne
came to save the situation. Followed plenteous allu-
sions to Dreadnoughts, and the “ sturdy colonial
loyalty ” of the Australian States ; indeed the whole pro-
ceedings took the shape of a conspiracy to hide from the
people of Britain the fact t.hataNational Government has
been established in Australia. Thanks to the absence of
a High Commissioner, one meets plenty of intelligent
people who never knew, or have forgotten, that Australia
has a Federal Constitution. The Victorian office, with its
stuffed birds and plaster nuggets, is now being accepted
as the “Australian ” office in London, owing to the con-
spicuous position it occupies, and the conspicuous
absence of a shingle indicating that there is an Aus-
tralian Government with a High Commissioner of its own.
The timber-getters in some of the States
are moving in the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court for redress of their grievances, one of
which is that the employers in one State pay less
wages than those in another. The employers
have challenged the jurisdiction of the Common-
wealth Court, and a case is to be tried before the
High Court to settle the matter. The workmen
cannot afford a costly legal process of this sort,
and so appealed to Federal Attorney-General
Hughes to take up the Commonwealth case on the
common-sense ground that the whole cost of
testing the validity of Commonwealth legislation
is hardly a fair charge on their union. On hear-
ing of this the Sydney Telegraph was horrified
at the impertinence of the Labor unions “hiring” a
Labor Government to fight their law cases at the
Government expense. But on the identical day
(May 20) that the paper’s wail was published,
N.S.W. Premier Wade moved in the Law Courts
for the State Government to intervene in the pro-
ceedings, on the ground that the Sovereign and
Constitutional rights of the States were in
jeopardy. And the paper never said a word, and
forgot to accuse Wade of wanting to filch State
revenues in an effort to defend the saw-mill em-
ployers.
Victoria’s Water Commission chairman,
Elwood Mead, has just presented the Murray
State with a report on the opening up of the
Cohuna Estate for settlement. The applicants
for blocks, he says, have merely come from other
districts in the State, the result being that all the
expensive irrigation of Cohuna would benefit no
fresh people: “Forty men would go to Cohuna
with £20,000 of capital, but the men and the
money were simply being moved from one part
of the State to another. Not a single man had
been added to the population, nor a single pound
to the capital of the country.” Elwood Mead
seems riled about it, and sundry papers are
scornful. But, after all, it most likely means that
hitherto men have been forced on to mallee
and other country that was really unfit for settle-
ment, owing to the big landlords squeezing them
out, and they now jump at the chance to get into
a district where a drought isn’t liable to knock
them flat at any moment.
J. C. Watson has definitely declined to
continue in politics, and will not accept re-nomi-
nation for the South Sydney seat. His probable
successor is Leitch, Mayor of Redfern, who was
president of Watson’s election committee. He
may get in on his popularity ; but if he can’t get
in on that, he won’t be able to get in at all.
NAGGIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Meantime the general public, who are waiting to get
the urgent work of the country done, must look appre-
hensively on this exasperated party strife, and entertain
fears for a barren session.— Melb. Age (28/5/’09.)
Naggin’, naggin’, naggin’, all th’ bloomin’ time,
Never goin’ for’ard, always in th’ slime.
Heaps o’ things to see to ; orter be at work
Buildin’ up a nation, ’stead o’ scrap ’n’ shirk.
’Arf a dozen parties wastin’ of th’ years ;
Continent o’ people full of ’opes ’n’ fears.
Nuthin’ to defend us ; brains not worth a cent;
Talkin’, talkin’, talkin’ in our Parliament.
Pore old White Australia, ’fraid y’ll ’ave t’ go !
Wot y'r future spells like, Gawd ’n’ Satan know.
Led by billet-hunters scramblin’ f’r a job ;
Ruled by screamin’ parties huntin’ in a mob !
When y’r door is knocked at, ’n’ y’r skies are black ;
When y’ve lorst y’r manhood —lorst th’ fightin’ knack ;
When y’r ruined cities crumble ’round y’r feet—
Still we’ll ’ear th’ barkin’ up in Talkin’-street.
Better git a sign out: “ Want a Man, to lead ;
Fools no use applyin’, want th’ Statesman breed ;
Want t’ save a Nation ; want t’ write a lot
In th’ Book o’ Battles ; Country’s goin’t’ Pot.”
P’rhaps we’ll git a lianswer ; ’ow we’d love th’ man
If ’e’d come ’n’ save us —git right in th’ van,
With ’is face set for’ard, never lookin’ back.
Bet ’e’d stay ’n’ welcome, never git th’ sack.
Naggin’, talkin’, scrappin’, all th’ bloomin’ time,
Never any for’arder, always in th’ slime.
Lots o’ things to see to, orter git t’ work
Buildin’ of our nation, ’stead o’ shift ’n’ shirk.
VICTORIA.
WILLIAM H. ELSUM.
THE GREAT CONGLOMERATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Doctor Watts informed us,
Years and years ago,
How agglomerations
Caused the world to grow.
“ Little drops of water,
Little grains of sand,”
So the doctor put it,
Made the sea and land.
Nowadays the version
Of that famous rhyme
Runs a little different—
Hardly so sublime !
Little drops of Deakin,
Little scraps of Cook,
Mixed with chips of Irvine,
Cause the world to look 1
Little chunks of Forrest —
Little bits of Glynn,
Mixed with blocks of Foxton,
Cause the world to grin!
Little blobs of Millen,
Little grits of Quick,
Mixed with Willy Kelly,
Make the world feel sick.
“Granny” balls it “Fusion ”
But, somehow, I guess
Cookinquickenkelly’s
Bound to make a mess !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Bechstein Pianos.
W*K! fV
V'%l
The World’s Greatest Pianists prefer
the BECHSTEIN PIANO to any other.
Vladimir de Pachmann writes of them: “To
me it is the height of joy to play on these instruments.
Then alone can I become one with the piano, and revel
in pure music and poetry. The beauty of tone of the
Bechstein Piano I can only compare with that of a
Stradivarius string quartet."
Josef Hofmann writes: “The Bechstein Piano
possesses greater poetry of tone and resembles the
human voice more than any other instrument. It is
the realisation of my ideal of a piano, and the only
one on which I can express all I feel."
Carreno writes: “The Bechstein Piano is the ideal
of perfection, and above all others responds to all
demands of an artist."
Jt,
Catalogues and full particulars of the marvellous instruments
free on application to the Sole Agents —
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD.,
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
•t
1
WE
Bucimum -
Bourke Street,
Aelbourrve.
Patterns Post Free
All over Australasia. 4
t\ Afi
'
WONT
UALLY
WCAR
Java-Australia Line
OF THE
ROYAL DUTCH PACKET COMPANY.
Full-powered, modern passenger Steamers, specially built and equipped
for voyaging in the Tropics.
An ideal pleasure trip—smooth water everywhere, via Torres Straits.
Splendid scenery throughout the voyage. Electric Lights and Fans installed.
First and Steerage passengers carried.
All modern conveniences. English spoken on board. English
Stewardess carried. Passenger Accommodation Amidships.
. •' i!
' * ' ■■ /■
»• * •■JammjCg- A 6 *-
i -
-O-JECI 1 *
Sill
, As
;( . '
' \ ■
.*
Steamers will be despatched from Sydney as follows:
S.S. VAN SPILBERGEN, June 29th, 1909.
S.S. LE fIAIRE, July 29th, 1909.
Thence every four weeks, calling at PORT MORESBY, DOBO,
MACASSAR, SOURABAYA, SAMARANG and BATAVIA, via
Queensland ports. The round trip can be made in 48 days, including
eight days’ stay in Java. For Booklets, Time Tables, and all further
information apply:—
AGENTS:—Messrs. Mcllwraith, McEacharn & Co. Ltd., Adelaide? John
Sanderson & Co. Melbourne; Birt & Co. Ltd., South
Brisbane; Adelaide S.S. Co., Townsville; Bowden Bros.,
Thursday Island; Earp Bros., Ltd., Newcastle; The Papua
Trading and Planting Syndicate, Pt. Moresby.
L. E. COCHERET, Managing Agent for Australia,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 953 City.


ROIUHD’S
KALYDOR
THE
FM - Sill
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
PlLES.—There is no more
painful complaint from which
than Piles. The most effectiveci
BALM. Cert ain in every case,
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*
distressing and
yon can suffer
re is BALLAS
Obtainable from
KIDNEY TROUBLES.
It is not alone the aching back and the insipid
tired feeling that has to be borne ; it is the con-
stant fear that greater ills will follow. Bright’s
disease, diabetes, gravel, gallstones, inflammation
of the bladder, suppression and retention of the
urine, etc., all result from diseases of the kidneys.
Those who have never been troubled know not
the misery and suffering which those afflicted
undergo.
“I suffered very severely with kidney complaint
for a long period,” writes Mrs. W. Callaway, 14
Baldwin Street, Erskineville, near Sydney, “and
at last had to go to the Prince Alfred Hospital for
treatment, but with the medicine I took there
and prescribed for me in other ways I found no
relief. At times, when doing household duties,
if occasion occurred that I had to stoop I could
never get up without assistance. I had been a
martyr for years, and the pains at times were
dreadful.- The doctor stated that I had a slight
attack of Bright’s disease, but, notwithstanding
his treatment, I could get no benefit. At last a
friend recommended me to try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and I have now taken some eighteen
bottles and found that they have completely
cured me. Whenever I have a headache I have
recourse to them, and I find that by taking two or
three they drive the symptoms away. lam only
too pleased to give you this testimony, which you
may use in any way you wish.”*
REACH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Saturday, the opening day of the A..T.C. Birth-
day meet, saw backers in the slush when the racing
finished, the only favorite to score being the long-ex-
pected Maorilander, Black Reynard, winner of the
Huddles. But he was never at a longer price than twos,
and the bulk of the public was not on him. All the
other winners came from the outside division of
thCir races. Two-year-olds Nadir and Vaporise,
stable chums, were sent for the Princess May
Stakes (6 fur.). Vaporise was tipped by those who should
have known most about the relative merits of the pair as
being the more seasoned. Then, of course, Nadir simply-
bolted from the field, and streaked home in the dizzy
time of Itnin. 13isec. Vaporise drove home the pro-
cession. Another disaster to the punter was the gather-
ing; by- outsider Hela (15 to 1 against) of the Elles-
mere Stakes (li miles). Welcome Trist won a similar
race at Rosehill on the previous Saturday in a
manner suggesting that the Ellesmere Stakes were his
own. Apparently- the weight of the public money broke
his back, as he passed the judge the last of a badly-
strung-out mob. W.T. has a habit of doing that sort of
thipg, although he does land a big stake for someone now
and again. The most amazing thing about the whole
business is that there are still enough fools left to keep
racing going.
Monday was another field day for the gentle-
man with the satchel and bow-window waistcoat. Dinyah
did in the Hurdles what he has been expected to do but
hadn’t done for a long time. He won easily, starting at
Bto 1 against; but outside those in the know, he carried
but little cash. Borodino, who could do no good for his
late owner Paddy Crick, started at 12 to 1 against, and
easily beat speedy nags like Lady Ruenalf and Leuron in
the Winter Handicap (6 fur.). The Haut Brion-Meridian
bred colt Nadir demonstrated there was no fluke in his
remarkable break on the Saturday by carrying 2st. 101 b.
more (9st. 51b.) over the six furlongs in lmin. 14sec.
Beau Vive (12 to one against), with (Ist. up, made a one-
horse show of the Prince of Wales Stakes (1 mile 3 fur.) by-
cantering home 10 lengths to the good in 2min. 19sec.,
which is an Australasian record. The absolutely last
straw for the punter was when Black Buck just pipped
heavily-backed Rose Linnet and favorite Lady Ruenalf in
the final race, the Exeter Handicap. In fact, the punter
is a fool who works hard to keep Patrick Moses in afflu-
ence, and calls it sport.
* * * *
Both steeples at A.J.C. Birthday Meeting were
sorry spectacles. It was whispered that the Victorians,
Boomerang and Warfield,Were to win in turn, one each
day ; but which would gather the first event had most
people badly bothered. In a field of five on Saturday,
Boomerang—much the better recent performer—was
backed down to 5 to 4 against, while 3 to 1 was freely laid
on Warfield. Grey Skylark and Silkland struck trouble
early, and, when the last-named fell, Boomerang was 20
lengths ahead‘of Warfield and The Lamb ; but Boomerang
baulked at the third obstacle in the straight, and
repeated it twice. Then his rider (Mclntosh) gave the
horse a fair run at the task, and Boomerang succeeded.
But meanwhile Warfield and The Lamb were out of
sight. It was a hopeless chase, and Warfield won.
Boomerang, Warfield, The Lamb, and Grey Skylark
formed the “ field ” on Monday-, and betting against the
two Victorians was as in the first day’s race. Boomerang
never made the suggestion of a mistake from end to end.
Grey Skylark fell again ; it was Warfield’s turn to baulk,
when fully 20 lengths behind Boomerang, who went on,
and won by a wide stretch of country from The Lamb.
Only two saw the journey through. Steeplechases in
Sydney are rarely, interesting; and often anything but
edify-ing sights,, but the latest couple left a distinctly bad
taste in the mouths of racegoers.
Sydney bad a plethora of football on Saturday,
when the Rugby- Union started its Country- Week, and
also sent a team representing N.S.W. against the returned
Wallabies at the Cricket Ground. Over the fence in the
Agricultural Ground the League’s Kangaroos met the
All Blacks from Maoriland in as sparkling a game as
was ever seen in Sydney. Besides all these struggles the
Australian gamers and the Soccer men were on the war-
path ; and great was the kicking.
The most brilliant game of the day was that of
the Kangaroos against the Maorilanders, at which the
crowd rolled up 23,000 strong and gave the struggling
League a considerable lift. Considering that the Maori-
landers were fresh off the water and had not had
any practice together, the game they put up was
little short of marvellous. At the word go, the Kan-
garoos dashed in and for a long while had the
Maorilanders badly bustled. The Blacks had apparently
no cohesion, but their schooling had been perfect, anil
the combination could be seen growing while one watched.
The Kangaroos had scored 15 before the All Blacks got a
look in ; but then they- made the pace so fast that they-
reached 16 before the Kangaroos managed to change the
figures. At that point they- suddenly- froze, an<i the
Kangaroos, coming again, swept away all their charges,
and, storming through the defence, rushed their scoreup
to 26. It was a million to a gooseberry ; but the dogged
Maorilanders never faltered, and played the last few
minutes as though their lives depended on it. Again
and again they were blocked, and sometimes their charges
seemed to go to pieces just for lack of understanding
among the players ; but right on time they burst through,
and, finishing with a magnificent goal, ended with 21
points to the 26 of the conquering Kangaroos.
As a spectacle, the Rugby Union match between
the Wallabies and N. S. Wales was not in the same street
with that between the Kangaroos and the Maorilanders.
The Wallaby forwards were slow, cumbrous, and suffering
apparently from fat on the intellect. The strength of the
side lay in the back division, and even it would have to
improve to hold its own against a N. S. Wales team that
had played half a dozen matches together. The Wallabies
knew, or ought to have known, every trick and point of
combination after the benefit of a prolonged tour
together. The local men had to find out one another’s
ways; and that makes a mighty difference. As it was,
the Wallabies had all the luck that was swimming around
the Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday afternoon, and
then managed to win only by six points. ' The fact is that
the general standard of N„,S.W. Union Rugby is rising
steadily, and never before, during the last 15 years, has
there been such a general pitch of excellence. It
is quite gratifying. Consider the scoring: The
Wallabies, with all the benefit of their recent English tour
still thick upon them, scored eight points before the
Walers showed color. The}- were 13 when the home
team was three, hut when the half-time whistle went the
local men had put on another five, and this in the face of
a wind that fought determinedly for the Wallabies. '
When play resumed, there was almost a dead
calm, and the Wallabies, thanks to the previous assistance
of the wind, were much the fresher side. There was some-
thing charming about the deliberate way they set to
work to pile up the points, and succeeded,'till they were
22 points to eight. The local chances looked hopeless.
Rut when the second half was three-parts through, the
Walers livened up immensely, or else the Wallabies tired
a lot; anyhow, they suddenly broke away with a
dribbling rush which was foolishly carried close
to the Wallaby line, where it was gathered
and centred. But the Walers caught it and
let loose a passing charge that raised the Score by
three points. The trouble with the local men was that
they tried to dribble over the Wallaby line, instead of to
within striking distance, and then letting go the backs.
But for this they would have won. As it was, they lifted
the score to 16, and when the whistle blew were making
magnificent though fruitless attempts to score.
It was a disappointing game. The Wallabies
were not nearly so good as expected, especially in the
forward division. The back machine was good, but far
from superb. Had the attacking team had a little more
practice together and developed the art of rucking a little
more, and had it given the backs the benefit of successful
dribbling, the game would have ended very differently.
* * » *
There were three Country matches played in
Sydney on Saturday, when New England gave Western
District the father of a hasting to the tune of 14 to nil.
Northern District downed Central Western by 14 points
to five, and Southern won from Northern Rivers by eight
to three.
* * * ■*
Rozelle did not longmaintain its lonely position
at the head of the Soccer competition for the Rawson
Cup, being walloped by Glebe by two goals to one. Pyr-
mont, which last Saturday was second on the list with
nine points, succeeded in downing Newtown by three to
one, and so went up top with 11 points. Rozelle, Sydney,
and Ultimo are each 10 points, and stand together in the
second line, with Glebe and Powerful close up with nine
and eight respectively. Garden Island, still smarting
under a sense of injury, again forfeited, and is hopelessly
out of the running.
* * * *
Newtown, the baby club, is making splendid
progress, and although Pyrmonb downed it bj- three to
one on Saturday, the figures do not indicate the real posi-
tion of the parties to the disturbance. As a matter of
fact, Newtown had all the best of the general play, and
failed in one department only, that of shooting for the
goal. The Rugbj 7 instincts still hamper the New-
towners. In Rugby the ball is booted over the bar, in
Soccer it is propelled beneath, and to the Newtowners
the difference is tremendous. It is the old order re-
versed, and in a manner that is hard to get accustomed
to. So Newtown went down after having the best of the
game right up to the shooting point. It was a penalty
kick that led to the downfall of Rozelle at the hind feet
of Glebe, and though it occurred early in the game it.
gave Glebe the handicap from which Rozelle never re-
covered. Which shows the advisability of avoiding-
penalties.
* * * *
Saturday’s football in Melbourne was notable
chiefly for the utter capsizing of the leading teams, in
both League and Association. Before a packed “house”
the unbeaten South collided on muddy ground with Rich-
mond, another heavyweight. Richmond could lay no
claim to unusual skill—it had been beaten by Melbourne,
’Roy and ’Wood —-but its men plunged off in such reckless
fashion that at the first change they had 28 points to
South’s two; and though “Skinner’s hirelings” strove
lustily to the great delight of the crowd, they
never got within nine points of Richmond, and
wound up with 58 points to 71. That delighted
crowd, by the way, got so excited that it carried
away a fence and trampled on some, of itself, so
that one youth had to be carted off to the hospital and
others bandaged.up and plastered. This is the secpnd
like occurrence within a fortnight; wherefore the MiO.O.
committee is hereby advised to alter its determination
not to provide more accommodation on its ground
for the finals. Given fine weather, there will be
record crowds there next September, and any at-
tempt to cram 70,000 persons into a space' only
large enough for 50,000 will mean disaster. ’Wood v.
Essendon promised an exhibition of science and a close
finish to please the packed thousands. The science was
there, but it was all on ’Wood’s side, so the finish was a
disorganised episode as far as the’Dons were Concerned.
After getting a couple of lucky goals at the start, they
had, little further say in the argument till half time, when
they were 15 points to 30. After that their remarks were
even fewer, and the bell rang with ’Wood 73, Essendon 31.
On form the see-saw ’Varsity team should have made hacks
of Melbourne’s 18, but after battling vigorousl} 7 through-
out the first threequarters the Students went all
to pieces, and finished 46 to Melbourne’s 65. The
encounter of the old rivals, Carlton and.’Rby, was con-
ducted in courteous fashion, the. Maroons toiling in the
rear from start to finish and notching 39 to Carlton’s 48.
Down at Geelong the “Saints,” who don’t seem as happy
a family as of yore, fought fiercely to add another victory
to the solitary one they boast, and succeeded by the skin
of their teeth —-one point, to wit. They deserved the win,
for they were 21 points in arrear at'half-time ; though
had Geelong- contrived to kick more than one goal out of
its six shots in the last quarter, the result had been
different. Still, the kicking of the Saints was just as
rotten. . Scores, 49 to 48. But the match probably won’t
count, inasmuch as Saints played a man who had re-
cently been disqualified at Bendigo, and against whose
inclusion Geelong protested.
The Association matches were started with
pleasing punctuality, probably induced by the £2O worth
of fines just parcelled out among eight of the clubs by the
ruling committee. The unbeaten P’ran team performed be-
fore the dlite of Toorak, and fell, battling valiantly, before
the lustier feet and straighter kicking of Essendon. In the
first term, the men of the trading suburb casually fooled
around while ’Don piled up 26 points to 6 ; thereafter
they toiled , hard, but retired discomfited—Essendon 76,
P ran 68. Brighton visited Port, and returned home with
some sand in its eye, much mud on its person,
and whatever glory there is in a score of 47
points to 23. The reorganised ’Seray, with three
new men in -addition to the eight played last
week, invited Northcote to come and get ham-
mered, and duly thumped it with 79 thumps to
Cote’s 35. Brunswick, at Preston, explained to this
suburb that its premiership hopes were premature, and
that its early walloping of Essendon must have been an
accident; ’Wick’s score of 54 points was nothing
r
to skite about, but Preston’s 16 points was the
sort of thing that would look better if it were differ-
ent. North accepted its customarydefeat, from'Town this
time, by 83 to 47. This continued capsizing of North is
tiresome. During the week three Association players
and one Bendigo ’bailer have been relegated to private
life for “rough play,” mostly for not half as long as they
ought to have been.
At Elsternwick, in Bent’s electorate, a cheerful
shindj’ between two junior teams —W'illiamstown Excel-
sior and the local Somersets—ended in the umpire stop-
ping the collision and awarding a win to Somersets. The
umpire had a strenuous time all through, and frequently
suspended the proceedings; but when VVilliamstown
start d to ignore him and the ball and to argue with
palings and flag sticks, he reckoned it time to adjourn.
As the same umpire, a week or two back, was thrown into
Albert Park lake by a mob of disgruntled barraekers, he
seems to be well supplied with pluck. Meanwhile, at Mordi-
alloc, where the locals collided with Ellindale (Ormond),
a constable was busy keeping the barraekers from open
warfare, and afterwards handed out a few invitations to
the local Court. They are a ructious lot, these juniors,
but they are a trifle wasteful of fence palings, and timber
is getting scarce in Victoria.
■*■***
Something like a step towards district football
was made in Melbourne the other day, when the Football
Association and the Junior Football Association met, to
talk about affiliation. It. was pointed out that the juniors
wanted to come in closer touch with the seniors by getting
the use of the seniors’grounds when they were not in use.
By that means it was hoped to encourage district foot-
ball, and the greater recruiting from local clubs. At
present both the Association and League clubs recruit
from everywhere, generally with a pleasant manner and a
promise of loot ; wherefore the game is diseased with a
semi-professionalism that is turning the players into pur-
suers of oof. If the two Associations can affiliate to put a
check on the demoralisation, they will he doing' well. By
a strict regulation of permits they will probably be able
to do a lot; but there can still be little hope for a success-
ful scheme of district football until the League displays a
desire to fall into line.
THE UNKNOWN RIVALS.
FERVENT PATBIOT: “ Will you give'something to
the Dreadnoughts?”
FOOTBALLER: “ Never ’eard of ’em. Where do
they play? ”
Monday being natal day of his Nibs of Wales,
there was a second struggle between the Kangaroos and
the All Blacks. Contrary to all expectations, the Maori-
landers showed less combination than ever, while the
Kangaroos improved vastly. In fact, some of the work of
the Kangs was more than faultless —it was superb. If
the League can continue to supply football of this quality
its future is assured. The gate showed a vast increase,
there being over 10,000 more people present than on
Saturday. The Maorilanders played an individualistic
game during three parts of the match, the towering
Blacks charging down the field singly, while the
Kangaroos 'hurled themselves in solid masses. The
marvel was that the Blacks escaped so lightly. Curiously
enough, although the Maorilanders played the individual-
istic game so long, towards the end of the second spell
they showed they were capable of really splendid oom-
birlation, and, playing together, rushed their score from
five points to 20, making 15 while the Kangaroos put on 11.
The final scores were 27 to 20.
The Country Matches of the Union also con-
tinued on Monday. Northern District downed Eastern
Suburbs by 12 points to three. Central Western met
South Sydney, and great was the smash, the country men
being walloped by 22 to nil. That was bad, and no more
merciful was the doing University inflicted on Western
Districts —44 to 11. The country got some slight satis-
faction, however, as Southern Districts downed Western
Suburbs by 11 to five, and Northern Rivers just managed
to beat Balmain by 13 points to 12. New England, how-
ever, met disaster at the feet of Glebe, which conquered
by 19 points to eight-.
* * » *
Sydney Church of England Grammar School
Rugby team closed the first half of the season with an
unbeaten record in schools football, and with a score of
150 points to 12.
* * * *
Monday was a day of intense excitement and
anxiety in Sydney Soccer circles, for the invincible Pyr-
mont was to meet the terrible Rozelle in a match that
would practically decide Rozelle’s chances fortbeßawson
Oup. If Rozelle could down Pyrmont it would recover
from the effect of its unexpected defeat by Glebe ; if it
didn’t, ic would drop right back into the third line. It
didn’t; for Pyrmont, after a gruelling struggle, won with
one goal to nil. Pyrmont is now 13, Sydney (having
beaten Glebe) is second with 12, and Ultimo and Rozelle
have 10 each. The margin is not much on paper, but
practically it is almost as wide as the gulf between
Lazarus and Dives.
The Australian XL (Ltd.) continues to make
heavy weather in the land of our father Bull, where the
wet, penetrating English rain seems to have soaked into
the weak spots of the Australian play. Trumper’s 133
against Cambridge University is the one gleam of beauty
in the dreary waste of last week’s doings, and shines like
a good deed at a wowser picnic.
* • * *
Manager Laver lent a mighty arm to the Aus-
tralian XI. last week, and monopolised the bowling.
Against Leicestershire he took six wickets for 80 runs;
and he followed that up with six wickets for 58 runs and
four wickets for 25 runs against Cambridge University.
In the 1905 team, Laver (also in the office of manager)
returned from the tour with 115 wickets at an average of
18T9 runs. Laver appears to be a useful manager to
have about a team.
The Dunlop Tlubber Co. has definitely decided
1° ttle nu,n^er °f nominations for the Warrnambool
to Melbourne road race to 500 ; and the result is that the
list is nearly full already. The prizes are worth in the
aggregate £l7O, and include seven bicycles. The first is,
as usual, the cheque for £3O and the five-guinea gold
medal presented by the Dunlop Co. ; in addition, every
rider who covers the course in lo| hours or under wiil
receive the usual artistic bronze and enamel medal.
Youths under IS are barred, and single-tube racing tyres,
outside pace, and changing of machines en route are all
vetoed. Nominations close at the office of the Dunlop
Co., 108 Flinders-street, Melbourne, on Monday, Septem-
ber 13. Acceptances close on Wednesday, September 22.
Entrance is 2s. 6d. and acceptance half a dollar. The co.
reserves the right to refuse any nomination.
* * * *
The preparations for the Warrnambool-to-Mel-
bourne race recall the fact that path-racing is almost
extinct in Australia, while road-racing was never more
popular. Track-racing is moribund in N.S.W., but in
Victoria it is dead. The best thing that can be done,
apparently, is to let it stay dead for a few years till the
public gets the taste of the deeds that were done in the
past out of its mouth, and then revive it on an amateur
basis.
* * * *
Published that Major Taylor, the colored
cyclist who once happened on Australia, has fallen into
the paths of the heathen, and decided to race on Sundays
or at any time the money may be dangled before his
nose. “ Before finally retiring, I should like to win a
Paris,, Grand Prize, and also another world’s champion-
ship,” says Taylor; and, as these events can only be won
by Sunday racing on the continent, Taylor intends to
risk it.
Owing to the possible wet, the Sydney Stadium
will be closed during the winter months. It will re-open as
soon as the weather grows sufficiently warm to justify the
lover of stoush and such-like pastimes wandering out at
nights.
* * » *
The N.S.W. Amateur Sports Federation made
a pretty exhibition of itself over the alleged professional-
ism of “Snowy” Baker. When the Rugby
Union complained of H. It. Miller, who as a
Rugby Leaguer was a professional ’bailer, but
wished to take part in amateur athletics, the
I Sports Federation blew him out joyously, on
the ground that a professional in one branch
is a professional in all. Now Baker, whom the
Federation has accused of being a professional
boxer, wants to play amateur football, and
as he is an excellent player, the Union is anxious
to have him ; so the Sports Federation crayfished
cheerfully, and declared that Baker may play-
amateur football, as no money- prize was offered
to him for boxing. The voting in Baker’s case
was eight votes to seven ; and the seven who stuck
for pure-wool amateurism were at least con-
sistent. Obviously-, if the Sports Federation
wishes to command respect, it must either
reverse the decision in Baker’s case or re-admit
Miller. At present, it stands self-convicted of
outrageous favoritism.
* * * *
Although a wrestling match between
Hackenschmidt and Frank Gotch has been
arranged to take place in Melbourne on a date
to be fixed, there is more than a suspicion
that Hackey will be unable, owing to physical
disability-, to keep the engagement. The syndicate has
sent Mr. E. F. Baker to the great and chaotic United
States to see Gotch, after which he will go on to London
and interview the mighty Hackey-.
* * * *
E. Fowler, a well-known cricketer of other
days, was given out in Melbourne lately. Deceased was a
great bat and wicketkeeper in the ’sixties. He was the
cricketer at whom bowler Sam Cosstick threw the ball in
despair in a match between Victoria and Ma in 1865, after
the batsman had made What was then regarded afe the
tremendous score of 51 on a single wicket.
* * *■ •*
Australian champion sculler H. Pearce had
hardly wiped his sculls dry and changed his cloths
before J. Mitchell, Thoroughgood’s trainer and pace-
maker, and also sometime Stanbury’s pacemaker, was at
his neck with a challenge. Mitchell has been beaten
several times before, but he has the grit and determina-
tion of that fighting ant which won the wager from the
beetle about shifting a man. A match for £lOO a side
was fixed for July 17. Mitchell is a busy- man, as he has
another match, with George Day, on July 24. In spite of
the worry he had over collecting the stake, Thorough-
good is on the warpath again, and will immediately chal-
lenge the winner of the Mitchell-Pearce struggle.
* * * *
Like an eel caught in the flurry of a wounded
whale, or the sprightly movements of a Barbary ape
furiously attacked by the forepaws of a demented ele-
phant, were the evolutions of Ed Williams (list. 51b.) in
the course of his brief, inglorious battle with Mike
Williams (13st. lib.) at Melb. Athletic Pavilion the other
night. The match was badly advised, for the reason that,
no matter how well the small man might fight, and how-
ever badly the big man might shape as a scientific smiter,
the former was certain to be overwhelmed in the rush and
smother of the wild man from Bally-slather. Mike
Williams (he is the massive Hibernian who came here,
via S’Africa, to eat up Bill Squires, and retired hurt, with
a horribly smitten nose, in 10 secs.) waded into his
small enemy like an impassioned Diprotodon hurling his
whole mass at a distressed wallaby. Ed prodded him
awfully in the ey-e as he came in, and then tried to evade ;
but the agonised Milesian mopped him up, drew him over
bis knee, and pounded him on the base of the spine. Many
times the human pile-driver hit the floor with his squirm-
ing foe ; he fumbled, worried, jostled, whirled and
swiped circular smacks at the Universe, but never once
did he hit the middleweight a clean blow till he fathered
him across his knee as aforesaid and sledge-hammered his
backbone. Then, in the third round, in his desperate
efforts to do something tangible, Mike scandalously cross-
buttocked Ed, and the referee intervened and gave the
small Melbournian the fight on a foul. Ed was breath-
less but unspotted; but big Mike’s face had been wickedly
maltreated in the course of these few remarks.
A HUMAN KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The King is human, and shares with many of his sub-
jects the ambition to win the Derby, and when his wish
is gratified he does not wrap around himself a mantle of
reserve and delegate to someone else the honor of leading
in his horse. He is proud to do it himself. —Melbourne
daily paper leader.
The King is human. He, a noble Guelph,
Rejecting aid from blokes of meaner cla.v,
With royal hands leads in his horse himself ;
And with his own breath says “Gee up ! Whoa,
whay! ”
Behold the marvel rare ; a human King!
Disdaining not to take a prad in tow;
Nor delegates to any underling
The job of holding it for ’alf a mo’.
Ye subjects, bash your cadies with delight!
Acclaim the living wonder of the tale,
i Proud King ! Proud Horse ! The verdict is “ All
right! ”
When Ned conducts his Neddy back to scale.
THE UNDERSIGNED.


HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. J*ACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Carrie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
NEW CATALOGUE
FREE.
“MIND THE: STEP!’
“take care!” particularly when you’re buying
some sort of cycles. But you needn’t “mind the
step ” if you decide on a
The B. and B. Model 3 Cycle , £ll
It’s our special value line, and we guarantee it for a year.
MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
BENNETT g BARKELL,
The Largest Cycle-building 234 Pitt Street and 130-132
House in the State, Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
-M
i l
o
Ml
m
Economy 8 Speed.
The 20-h.p. Rover holds its own.
The speed of the Rover is at your
own discretion—it is there. The
economy is ever marvelled at. What
other 20-h.p. car will carry you through
your longest journey at 28 miles per
one gallon of naphtha ?
The Rover has ideal points per-
fectly built—reliable ever—easily con-
trolled—and always economic.
It carries an air of “ British ” about
it that commands attention.
Owners of Rovers swear by them.
They have stood the test of years, and
have earned their great reputation by
honest proof.
Speak with owners. Call and in-
spect. A trial run will convince you
that there is no better car.
Sole: agents jW
TARRANT
& MOTOR CO. &
106 RVSSELLST MELBOURNE.
ALSO SoLEA.OENTS FOR.FIATS, DE DI(KS, FNs.
Argylls, Rovers, Fords.
TELS 3942-3030.
EXCELSIOR HOTEL
AND
THEATRE ROYAL,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
A NEW LEASE for ten years
of the above well-known Hotel
and Theatre will be sold by
PUBLIC AUCTION on Satur-
day, 3rd July, 1909, at 12
o’clock.
For particulars apply to
R. RUSSELL,
Auctioneer,
Charters Towers, Queensland.
You can easily get at the. Matches with the
“ FLAT” MUTCH BOX.
Very thin and compact’ Lies fiat in the pocket
Only 7d. each, or 3 lor Is. 6d.
OP->
4 THrFLAT"
I match box
M.J.Sim'fht,o>Syd.
THESE very novel Match
Boxes are a great improve-
ment on all others, as,
although holding a full
supply of matches, they
are made so thin that
they lie flat in the pocket,
and do not bulge out and
make the pocket look un-
sightly like others. Manu-
facturers of Match Boxes,
like the watch makers,
have for a long time tried
to get over this disadvant-
age, which they have now
succeeded in doing by
„ „ . bringing out the patent
FLAT MATCH BOX. It is verv strongly
made and beautifully nickled and finished in
every way, and is easily opened by simply
touching the catch. To introduce them we
'H? supptying the first, shipment at ONLY
EACH, post free, or 3 for
is. 6a., post free. In addition we will send
tree to anyone ordering not less than three a most
useful Tie Clip which can also be used as a
button in case of.emergency. worth a shilling, or
we will send one Match Box and one Tie Clip
anywhere on receipt of Nine-penee.
AJ Smith & Co, 14 Hunter-st., Sydney
Legal Notices.
THOMAS DIXON GEORGE DIXON AND DOROTHY
MORSE.
"PURSUANT to an Order of the Court of Chancery of
the County Palatine of Lancaster (England) in the
matter of the Estate of RICHARD DIXON deceased
whereby enquiries were directed to be made by the
Registrar (inter alia) whether THOMAS DIXON GEORGE
DIXON and DOROTHY MORSE (three of the beneficiaries
named in the Will of their Father the said RICHARD
DIXON formerly of Lancaster England Farmer) are living
or dead and if dead when they respectively died and who
are their respective legal personal representatives and
also whether the said DOROTHY MORSE has had
any and what children and whether such chil-
dren have respectively attained the age of 21 or
married and whether such children are living- or dead
and who are the respective real and legal personal
representatives of such of them as are dead after having-
attained the age of 21 years or having married the person
or persons claiming to be any of the persons referred to in
any of the said inquiries are by his her or their Solicitors
requested on or before the 18th day of August 1909 to
come in and prove his her or their claim before the Regis-
trar of the Manchester District of the said Court at his
Chambers situate in Duchy Chambers 4 Clarence-street
Manchester England or in default thereof they will be per-
emptorily excluded from the Benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 7ch day of September 1909 at 11 o’clock in
the forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Any person having knowledge of the whereabouts of
the said THOMAS DIXON GEORGE DIXON and
DOROTHY MORSE or any of them if living or the place
of death of them or any of them or as to the whereabouts
of the wife or family (if any) of any of them is requested
to communicate at once with Messieurs BELLHOUSE
and SYER Solicitors 46 Brown Street Manchester Eng-
land.
The said THOMAS DIXON GEORGE DIXON and
DOROTHY MORSE were formerly of the town of Lan-
caster England and emigrated to Australia together with
the first husband of the said DOROTHY MORSE whose
name was HENRY PEDDER BREWER and were engaged
for some time mining near Inglewood Victoria.
The said DOROTHY MORSE was last heard of from
Kurting near Inglewood aforesaid in the year 1908.
A son of the said DOROTHY MORSE by her marriage
with HENRY PEDDER BREWER is said to have mar-
ried a daughter of Mr. LETTS of Kurting and to have
died leaving a widow and children.
The said THOMAS DIXON was last heard of in
August 1889 from Geddia Camp Bourke New’ South Wales
and it is believed he afterw-ards left there and proceeded
to Queensland.
The said GEORGE DTXON is said to have been married
and to have proceeded to Queensland and w’as a Land
Surveyor but it is unknown whether he followed such
occupation.
Dated the 28th day of April 1909.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
BELLHOUSE and SYER,
Solicitors,
46 Brown Street, Manchester.
GEORGE HOWARD DECEASED.
"IDURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division of
x the High Court of Justice in England dated the 15th
January 1908 made in an Action in the Matter of the
Trust of the Will of GEORGE HOWARD deceased
HOWARD v. HOWARD 1907 H. No. 3413 the following
Enquiry was directed namely An Enquiry who are or
were the children of JOHN HOWARD and CHARLES
HOWARD respectively living at the time of the Testator’s
death and whether they are living or dead and if dead
who are their respective legal personal representatives.
Now all persons claiming to be such children or the
legal personal representatives of such children as aforesaid
who may have died are on or before the 20th day of
October 1909 to come in and prove their claims at’ the
Chambers of Mr. Justice Swinfen Eady and Mr. Justice
Neville Room No. 706 at the Royal Courts of Justice j
Strand London England or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 26th day of October 1909 at 11.30 of the clock
in the forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for !
hearing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated the 20th day of April 1909.
H. HUGHES ONSLOW,
Master.
NOTE.—The above named Testator GEORGE HOWARD
formerly lived at Temple End Farm Little Thurlow
Suffolk afterwards at Carlton Cambridge and latterly at
Little Chesterford, Essex and died on the 7th day of
January 1892. His Brother the said JOHN HOWARD
married ELIZABETH WEBB who died in the year 184 -
The said JOHN HOWARD emigrated to New South Wales
about 60 years ago taking with him some of his children
by his said wife and one MARY TAYLOR a Widow whom
it is alleged he previously married. He died at North
Yass in New South Wales on the 22nd March 1891. His
Brother the said CHARLES HOWARD was married to
KEZIA MOORE and died on the 11th day of March 1888*
One of the children of such marriage named FREDERICK
GEORGE HOWARD went to New South Wales and has
not been heard of since the year 1904. Another of such
children named MATILDA married one THOMAS
DAINTON a Railway Engine Driver at Wirnbish in the
County of Essex and died at the Islington Infirmary in
1896.
MORRIS and BRISTOW,
41 Bedford Row,
London, England,
Agents for d’Albani and Ellis,
Newmarket, England,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
" A WL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes; Sews
2s . Posted.
(A.v1.2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
| Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Slioes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
lis the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
___ supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—rGem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles— l bent, 1 straight— l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, pose Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight.or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7cf., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A.
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
P ™° Erl frnm
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
StocK and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP ... £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Bligh Street. SYDNEY.
It takes a while for a man living at the tail end
of the Marshall Islands, in the South Seas, to dip
his oar into a newspaper controversy ; but distance
shouldn’t bar him altogether. So here goes
“Kanaka”: —
Re Sydney Telegraph’s statement, commented upon
in Bulletin (13/8/’08), that, owing to Freetrade, not one
loaf of rye-bread is eaten in England. May be so. But
why is rye-bread eaten in other parts of the world ? Not
merely because it is cheaper. Here in the South Seas, on
board German trading vessels, it is never absent from the
cabin table at meal times. It is not put on the table for
ornament either, but for use. Neither is it there because
it is cheaper ; for while a 501 b. tin of Australian wheaten
flour at ruling Island rates costs 14 marks (shillings), only
251 b. of rye flour can be purchased with that sum. IGer-
mans at home get on the outside of quantities of rye-bread
for the same reason that their brethren here do, and that
is simply because they like it. Same way they eat Lim-
berger cheese, not, as the Sillygraph would infer, because
it stinks, but because they like it. I suppose it’s for the
same reason that Freetrade dailies tell lies. The lies may
smell horribly, but they go on using them just the
same.
Wade is doomed as far as the N.S.W. coun-
try towns are concerned. He has roused the ire of
the barber, and what the S. M. Herald, D.T.,
and all the political leagues and associations are
in the city, the barber is liable to be in the
'country town. From him the community takes
its politics while it is being shaven or having its
hair trimmed. He is the repository of economic
knowledge, and the revealer of things in general.
What he says stands; and his flow of language is
always sufficient to down any opposition. His
methods are delightful. He always starts his dis-
cussion of the political situation moderately
enough. The man in the chair can’t contradict,
except at the risk of losing an ear or receiving a
mouthful of soap. Warming up. the barber pro-
ceeds by easy stages to the final denunciation that
the country is going to the devil, and Wade is a
“Cow!” “Brush-up—yessir; sixpence, sir,
thanks.”
From Sydney Telegraph, showing again
how Protection puts up the price of the local
article
A Sydney firm was smart and up-to-date enough tp get
the contract for supplying the book stacks in the Fisher
Library, despite competition by the leading firms of
America, whose tenders were vastly in excess of their
Australian competitor. Another success was recorded at
the last meeting of the Water and Sewerage Board, when
a tender was accepted for 1000 enamelled fire hydrant
tablets. For some time past these have been imported
from Germany at a price of Is. 3d. each ; now a factory
has been started at Leichhardt, and the price to be paid is
only half vihat was, given for the imported article,
V
u
na
m
[Ac
?Bw^S!WIBW!»r^
To Shearers—
Thousands of you now ride from Station to Station
on DUNLOP shod cycles, because you find these
are the ONLY TYRES that give satisfaction. We
have now issued a special strong and heavy Cover,
known as the “ Thorn-proof,” which is splendidly
adapted for the riding you do. They cost a little
more, but they are well worth it.
THORN PROOF
will practically ensure you against punctures, and will carry
you thousands of miles without trouble. We wUI be pleased to
:° ri r . you a s^ lon of this Cover upon receipt of your name
and address. These Covers can be obtained through any
reputable Cycle Agent They are branded “Thorn-proof.” '
DUNLOP RUBBER CO . Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane. Christchurch N
n .t. ~,/ w ..-m


SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
To the Wool Growers of New South Wales 8 Queensland.
Dear Sirs,
• i.* ? 01 some years past it has been manifest to the Brokers that the absence of a Wool Selling Brokers*
Association has in many respects operated most prejudicially to those interested in the welfare of the wool trade.
The existence of such a body in this State will serve to bring about an effective control of the wool trade generally,
with uniformity of action, and the minimising, and perhaps prevention, of a sudden drop in prices. Its usefulness,
however, will extend beyond this by accomplishing the acceleration or limitation of offerings, or the postponement
of sales for judicious periods, according to the varying conditions of the market.
These advantages can alone be secured by the establishment in each of the States of Associations, working
upon common lines, and acting in harmony for the welfare of Grower and Broker alike. No sing'le Broker, however
influential, and in fact no individual Association, could hope to accomplish this desirable end.
It was found impossible to form in this State such an Association as that referred to, unless the Brokers could
see their way clear to abandon the consolidated rate, which in many respects is most unsatisfactory. They have,
therefore, decided upon an amended commission rate, coupled with a separate charge for warehousing, following a
practice which for many years has been in force in London, Victorian and South Australian markets, with the utmost
satisfaction to the Growers and Brokers, and which, there can be no hesitation in saving, is based upon sound com-
mercial lines. The charges made by the Association which existed some few years ago in New South Wales prior to
the Brokers becoming disunited, were a consolidated charge of 3 per cent, on amounts of £5OO and over, and 3i per cent
on amounts under £5OO, and the PROPOSED NEW SCALE, ON THE AVERAGE, REPRESENTS A LOWER RATE.
The under-mentioned Brokers, therefore, have decided to establish an Association, and to fall into line with
the other States.
It will be seen that, whilst a consolidated charge has been abolished, a fair rate of commission has been adopted,
coupled with a warehousing charg'e to compensate the Broker for insurance, handling, storing, and providing the
necessary show-room accommodation where wool can be exhibited to the best advantage.
Most satisfactory arrangements have been made with the Associations of Melbourne and Brisbane, under which
tiie objects which have induced the local Brokers to form an Association will be realised to the fullest extent ; and
the Brokers cannot too strongly impress upon the Growers the fact that the welfare of the trade in which they are
so much interested is to a very large extent wrapped up in the permanent establishment of a healthy Federal
organisation, whose objects we have indicated above.
Yours, etc.,
AUSTRALIAN MORTGAGE, LAND AND FINANCE CO., Ltd.
JOHN BRIDGE AND CO., Ltd.
DALGETY AND CO., Ltd.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT AND CO., Ltd.
HARRISON, JONES AND DEVLIN, Ltd.
HILL, CLARK AND CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., Ltd.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, Ltd.
PITT, SON AND BADGERY, Ltd.
SCHUTE, BELL AND CO., Ltd.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON AND CO., Ltd.
The following are the charges which will rule practically throughout Australia from Ist July, 1909.
On clips £2OO and under.. .. .. 2£ per cent.
~ ~ over £2OO and under £5OO .. 1£ ~
~ ~ £5OO and over 1£ ~
Receiving, weighing, warehousing, lotting, re-packing sample bales, advertising, fire insurance, sale expenses,
etc., Id. per lb.
Wool offered for sale, but not sold, Is. per bale, including warehousing charges.
Sydney, June 5, 1909.
ANDREW
McCEE
503
The Andrew McGee French Briar Pipe makes smoking' a real
luxury to the man who loves his pipe. These Briars are different
and better than others, because you always get a cool, comfort-
able smoke which convinces you how much better the Andrew
McGee Pipe is than others.
McGee’s Celebrated Frensh Briars, No. 502 2/6 ; No. 503 3/6.
Ufa
Born 1820.
Still going
strong.
It's a fallacy to
say you can’t
buy AGE and
EXPERIENCE
you CAN in
Ws
Born 1820.
Still going
strong
The Whisky with the
Little Label
and the
Big Reputation,
Safeguarded by a constant maturing reserve
stock of over 3\ million gallons.
BILLIARDS LTD.
(Phone
1338 City).
630, 632 and 634 George Street, SYDNEY (near Liverpool Street).
25 Full-Size
AlcpcK Tables.
Several Private Rooms, which can be engaged
in advance by a ring on the ’phone.
LwilUlP ft) l) UM JflHBL»l!a fcWSHd
I
a
A Sure floustache Grower!
There have been many moustache producers on the market, but
not one has equalled or outlasted CAPILLARINE. For 25 years
it has been doing’ EXACTLY what we promise it to do, and has
NEVER failed in a single case. We guarantee your perfect
satisfaction from a single jar.
Price 10/0 a Jar, POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Craig: & Ait ken, 654 George St,, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
n
l
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
CINEMATOGRAPHY !
0®
©
ffl
(5
G)
0)
©
Q>®
THE WINTER
MONEY-MAKER
There’s nothing like the Cinematograph for
bringing good and quick returns, particularly in
the winter.
The complete outfit doesn’t cost much, and
very soon pays for itself.
Now’s the Time to Start.
We are experts in Cinematography, and can
start and advise any beginner, and supply all
needs.
We carry a large stock of machines, apparatus
and accessories, comprising all the latest, newest
improvements.
' We have a regular supply of Films, over
250,000 FEET FOR SALE OR HIRE, splendid
subjects, fresh, new, some never been used.
We sell, let out on hire, and repair anything
connected with Cinematography. Write or come
in and ask us any particulars.
JERDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 QfiORQE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Geniing ” : Said the licensed gold buyer (Vic.)
in re gold-buying in general and the much vituperated
Gold Buyers Act (1907) in particular : “ I’ve been buying
gold for 20 years, and if I were asked to revise the new
Act I would make only two alterations—one in reference
to the hours’of business, and the other in regard to wit-
nesses. Under the Act, the witness to the transaction
must be known to buyer and seller, which stipulation is
abhorrent to common-sense. I get over the trouble
by introducing to the seller Bill Casey, who sells coats
next door, and then we all know one another. Barring
these two things, the Act is just and equitable to the
honest getter and the honest buyer. But it’s an inqui-
sition to the ‘ fence,’ and it’s just murder to the ‘ nicker.’
I average Is. profit on every ounce I buy ! Oh, yes! I
made more before the Act ! But it was a game then. It’s
a business now ! I’m a plain business man, but I’ve
got a bit of conscience. If, in former days, I felt
suspicious as to the honesty of my client, and made
a few inquiries, I was discourteously consigned to
blazes, and the gold was sold to another, who asked no
questions and made his own price.; It was hard to be
honest and a gold buyer in those days. When a man
buys gold at £2 10s., and asks no questions he soon gets a
good custom. One man actually had this sign out, ‘ Gold
bought! Highest price given ! Strictest secrecy.’ When
the Act was passed, he didn’t even apply for a license.
That business was no good to him. Besides, he’d made
his pile, and is talking of going to England. By this new
law, I can ask as many questions as I like, and —well, he’s ,
got to answer me, or another buyer, or a policeman.
“ 1.G.8. ?—(That’s what we call illegal gold buying.)
Yes, there is some, but not much. The £lOO fine hurts.
And six months without the option leaves a nasty taste
in the mouth ! The old lurk of the Bung who bought
gold in payment of alleged booze, said to have been con-
sumed on his premises, is blown right out, for Bung can’t
sell his gold after he has got it.
“ In fact the way of the ‘ nicker’ is rendered as narrow
as the thoroughfare to Elysium. There is but one big loop-
hole for him—and that is no fault of the Act. A push of
‘nickers’ gets 50oz. or lOOoz. Then one of its number
has a trip to Tasmania and sells the gold without trouble.
But there’s six months hanging over him if he’s caught
in possession of the gold; furthermore, these emis-
saries have a nasty habit of disappearing mysteriously
with the cash. There’s dashed little honor among
‘ nickers.’
“To the honest fossicker the Act has come as a god-
send ! The banks all now go in largely for gold buying,
and the gold delver knows that he can get almost mint
price for his metal. It’s been worth at least 10s. an
ounce to the fossicker. This is only a little one-horse town,
but I’ve bought 400 oz. this week in parcels up to Boz., and
all of it genuine, alluvial, honestly-got gold. I made £22
on the lot. Not bad. But it needs a big overdraft at the
bank.
“Why do they come to me instead of the banks?
Well, the banks’ hours are 10 to three. Mine are eight to
five, and to eight on Saturday. It pays the men to give
me a bob an ounce rather than lose a day’s work.
“Yes! I reckon the very best plan would be for the
Government to buy all the gold, to appoint in each centre
a resident gold-buyer, with whom all should be forced to
traffic. I’m quite assured it’ll not be done in my time, or,
on purely personal grounds, I wouldn’t agree with it.
In fact, I would denounce it as flaming Socialism.
“ Yes ; of course you’re right. There’s more gold
‘ nicked ’ above than below'. That’s the shareholder’s
funeral, not mine. How is the gold got rid of by these
above men ! It isn’t i They hold it back till shares are
low. Then they give their agents the tip to buy. Into
the crushing goes the dump. Up go shares. They sell.
Simple, isn’t it? But the Act’s good. Say I said so; I
know.”
* * * *
“F.C.”: Anyone with an idle crematorium
could get a little work for it at present at Warrandyte
(Vic.), where the remains of the deceased wild cats and
the defunct Caledonia pups are still unburied and
unburned. The big mine has stopped these two months,
though a small tributing party still pokes about the
drives. As the pumps have been taken up they will pre-
sently be flooded out, and then silence will supervene.
Caledonia South has sent away its pumps and machinery
—some of which lay out in the weather for months—and
is dismantling its boiler house. The gorgeous poppet legs
and the ornate cement bed, for the engine that was
humped out but never erected, will remain as
monuments of folly and incapacity. The surround-
ing scrub, which once teemed with humpies
and tents, is again the hunting ground of the
wild rabbit, the week-ender, and other beasts of
prey. The shop which the Ringwood storekeeper opened
has closed with a slam, and a great slump hangs like a
pall over the place. Only a few parties are getting wages
out of alluvial in Selby’s paddock ; but the water, un-
checked in the idle mines, is now driving them out of
their claim. Blair and party', who lately' divided £l9
among eight men (14 days), have hired one of North Cale-
donia’s smaller pumps, and hope to keep the fluid down
awhile ; but the winter rains and the rising Yarra must
drive others out. Also the two pubs are engaged in a
death struggle for excursionists and what little local
trade there is. Warrandyte is a mournful circumstance
now.
* * * *
“Janor”: Mention of the “ Waihi Wonder”
(B. 29/4/’O9) recalls memories of the first rush to Ohine-
muri (Maoriland) in the early ’seventies. I hustled out
with the Thames crowd, and the steamer dumped us on
the river bank to discover that brown brother had his
hoof down, and prospecting was not allowed. The
auriferous area was brown man’s land, and the Maoris
were there in force to stop trespassers. We were allowed
to camp on the edge of the brawling river, whereia canvas
town had sprung up in an hour, as it were, and we drank
beer all day and mooched through the bush at night-
groping for “ blows,” outcrops, or any other old indica-
tion of hidden bonanzas. There was, of course, some
friction between the races, and the outlook was rather
uncertain when James Mackay, Native Lands Commis-
sioner, arrived to conduct negotiations for the purchase
of the block by the M.L. Government. The Maoris
assembled in thousands, and there was a week’s “ korero,”
at which vast stacks of tucker vanished, and orations
festooned the landscape, and the haka, the poi and the
war dance broke loose, and raged so fiercely that the
earth trembled beneath the pounding of brown feet.
The spree ended when Te Hira, the boss chief,
closed the bargain with “Mr. Guv’ment.” In M.L. at
that time miners’ rights were only good for the goldfield
of issue, so while the palaver was on we made written
applications for rights, enclosing the necessary sovereign.
The great day arrived. At 10 o’clock Mr. Mackay read the
proclamation, and then hundreds of miners rushed the
long booth with lettered pigeon-holes where the rights
were handed out. As each man grabbed his right he
rushed wildly away to peg out. It was a mad stampede.
Horsemen and footmen jostled and yelled, stoush was
numerous, and record times were made to localities pre-
viously selected. In many cases several parties had
spotted the same outcrop, and then the man who arrived
first got it, unless a bigger and more furious man arrived
second. In one instance a claim was pegged by men of
four different parties simultaneously' driving in a corner
peg. The excitement was tremendous, and fights there
were galore, and the day went out in a flood of cham-
pagne, beer, and other dampness. When the rush and
bustle calmed down, and the reefs were opened up, the
bulk of us realised that it was by no means a poor
man’s field, and we got out as suddenly as we got in.
But it was an old man spree, was that early' Ohinemuri
rush.
A CRY PROM THE MARKET-PLACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Barracouta were fetching an extremely low price when
sold at the metropolitan fish-market. Luring last week
the average gross return per basket was Is. Bd. Quite
one shilling of that amount goes in preliminary expenses,
Very few baskets forwarded to Melbourne last week con-
tained less than-20 fish. —Argus.
The fairly horrible fish may sell for “ Eighteen-pence,
this one,”
And yet cry out for his back-door bier before the even-
ing’s done;
The scarlet cray’ll remain on deck for days before he’s
bought,
And sell for a bob at least, at last, which is more than he
really ought;
And, though the prawn be packed in brine, his time must
surely come,
When, sold and stowed in the citizen’s bag, he’ll be no
longer dumb ;
But ancient fish, and Saturday’s fish, and fish that are
cheap to-day,
What is that odor of.. . umph !... that comes from over
the market way?
Plain, plain and coarse is the fare of fish on which the big
towns browse,
And the fish is large or small as the generous fish-sales
bloke allows ;
But as we pick at the bone and fin, and nibble the long-
time-dead,
As, fearful and half-afraid, we stare at the fish that is
mostly head,
The thought is ours : What stout, old bird with the rows
of suburban shops
Grows fat on the price of his ancient bream and the chaff
of his ocean-crops ?
Oh, long and loud are the odors now that early and late
arise
From the market-works of the stale-fish kings and their
terrible enterprise !
VICTORIA.
STONY.


BEALE GRAND PRIX PIANOS.
No less than FOUR separate juries, and the Grand Jury,
carefully examined and tested the Beale Pianos at the
Franco-British Exhibition in making the awards of
Grand Prix, Diploma of Honor and Two Gold Medals.
The Grand Prix was awarded to us for the tonal qualities
and general excellence of our pianos, in company with
Messrs. Pleyel, Wolff & Co., of Paris, and the leading
London firm of piano-makers. The Diploma of Honor was
unanimously awarded us for the perfection of the iron and
steel work in our pianos. In this section we were classed
with the great engineering firms which construct warships
and heavy guns for the British Navy. One Gold Medal
was adjudged us for the excellence of the cabinet-work as
such, considered quite apart from pianos. Another Gold
Medal was secured by us for factory organisation and the
variety of trades carried out in our workshops in connection
with the manufacture of pianos. Lastly, we obtained a
medal for excellence in bronze and other castings —handles,
candelabra, etc. Every possible point in connection with
pianos is thus covered in these awards, and in each case the
judges were aided by French and English experts in their
particular trades.
NEW MODELS of Beale Pianos, containing all our patents and
every modern improvement, are now on view at our Showrooms.
BEALE ®. CO. Ltd.
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide;
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),’
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
price of the best imported instruments.


OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and Spray
Heart CHARM,
7/6
Shall we mail you a copy ? It contains over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and Optical
Goods, and is yours for the asking. Write for it now, even if you are not buying for some time to come. With it you
CAN BUY IN PERFECT SAFETY through our UP-TO-DATE MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
CHARM
Amethyst
Thistle,
12 «
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire,
£4/10/
All Diamonds, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set Fine
White Pearls,
£4.
A. SAUNDERS.
*,r. LacJ y’ s Black, Open-face, Keyless
WATCHES, Short-wind, stem set, per-
fectly regulated,
v 10/
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
OPEN
FACE,
10/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, with Safety Chain,
£3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold CROSS, set Fine Pearls,
25'*
15ct. Gold, £2.
4
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
'2 h /•
15ct. Gold, 40/ ; Silver, 4/(5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold, 2-Bar “Dinna Forget” BROOCH,
Garnet centre,
10/G
Other styles, 17/6, 20/.
-1 A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set Fine
Pearls and Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et, Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
12/6
15ct. Gold, 25/; Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold, set O-ial, .
Ruby, or Sapphire,
17/0
15et. Gold, 30/; 18ct.
Gold, £2.
9ct. Gold, Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, with Safety Chain attached,
£3-
Larger, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/. Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/, 60/, 70/, SO/.
Oct. Gold Signet RING,
20/. 15ct. Gold, £2;
ISct. Gold, £2/10/. (
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pearls and Tourmaline
or Peridot.
£2-
Owl
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold “Lily of the Valley” Spray BROOCH, set
Fine White Pearls,
£4-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold NECKLET and PEN-
DANT, set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst, £4-
15et. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Five Pure Golden Sapphires,
£5-
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires, £l2/10/.
All Diamonds, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2/10/'
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting’, Keyless
WATCHES, Fully Jewelled, Perfectly
Adjusted,
ip 1 '
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/. 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £B/10/. Guaranteed 1,2, 3,
and .4 years.
■m
A
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct, Gold Bee BROOCH, set Fine
Pearls and Opal Body,
54-
All Pearls, £5.
SOLID
GOLD,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set
Fine Golden Sap-
phire, _ £3, £4, £5
according to size
of stone.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Eine Dia-
monds and Rubies or Sap-
phires,
_ £l5-
Diamonds and Emeralds
£l7/10/.
A. SAbiNDERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds,
and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£l5-
All Diamonds, £2^/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set. Fine,
• Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£2O
SOLID
GOLD,
12/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s ISct. Gold, Hunting, Keyless
Waltham LEVER, f-plate, fully jewel-
led, compensation balance, perfectly
adjusted, extra heavy ease, hand-
engraved,
£l2/10/-
Hig.her Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in Free Repair for 6 Years.
A. SAc.>^ERS.
15et. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls, Ruby,
and Turquoise, or all Pearls,
£3/10/-
Olivmes, Rubi"" ""d Pearls, £4/10/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set
. Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2-
Green or Golden Sapphires, £5.
IiEOM
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold BAMBOO BRACELET,, Half-chased, with
Safety Chain attached, -
£2/15/.
Smaller, £2/5/ Larger, £3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set with
Tourmalines,
£3-
For Pierced or Unpierced Ears.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/,
25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
OUR
“UNRI-
VALLED”
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel, Open-face, Keyless WATCHES,
J-Plate, Shortwind, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Dust and Water Proof Cases,
<>/
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/,
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH,
set Pearls and Tourmalines,
or Peridots,
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
18qt. Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£3/10/-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
All Diamonds,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
Fine Pearls and Amethyst,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine White Pearls and Tour-
! malines or Peridots,
£2/10/-'
A. SA^xWrjRS.
18ct. Gold, Clus-
ter RING, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,.
£B/10/-
A.. -SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£lO-
- Centre,.
£l2/10/.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2=
A. SAUNDKRS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver, Hunting, Keyless
LTEVER, J-plate movement, fully jewelled,
£2-
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£5, £6. Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/,
£lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £l7/10, £2O, to
£75. Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, 6, and 7 Years.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/.
Our System of Free Car-
riage on Goods to .any
part of the Country means
a big saving to you. ,
With the exceptions of
Clocks and chinaware, we
send all Goods Carriage
Free to any part of Aus-
tralasia.
A. SAUNDERS
9ct. Gold Double Curb ALBERT, made in our own workshops, £3. Heavier, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £7/10/. 15ct. Gold, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, , £l2/10/. In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6,'15/, 20/. In 14kt Patent Gold-filled, Guaranteed, 20s, 25/, 30/. Any Special Design of Albert to order.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W. ,


Under Vice«Reg'al
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkei.),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161
KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Oastlereaph Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21 /■
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
• Tails from 7/6.
Telephone 2138.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
mmmmm
m
CLOSED AS COUCH.
m
m
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES j
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s •; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Pen for YOU.
The “ Swan ” Fountpen is built for writing comfort —
it is not a toy —it has no pistons or valves, it works
automatically (if unconscious writing could be described as
working). The holder is made
to hold the maximum amount
of ink in the most comfortable
yet strong form of pen holder.
Our illustrated booklet tells
about the “ SWAN ” —write for
it to-day—post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and Branches.
Australasian Branch : —JAS. A. BURKE, 15
Waltham Building, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
[2
INSIST ON
<GO
WAN
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the —
I/OUTS Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I neyer saw anything like it
for pile and. lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
J
UIS
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
p- BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
P**'*e Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
'pUß|au3 _ ‘mgMguimJia s svjjoyyy
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
NEW HORN
EQUIPMENT
and Prices for the
Edison Phonog'raph.
All Edison Phonographs are now equipped with
a large, solid metal, polygonal-shaped horn and
a horn crane, similar to our illustration.
By these the good appearance of the machines
is enhanced, and the tone production improved.
This departure necessitated a slight increase
in the cost of the complete Edison outfits, which
are now priced throughout Australia as follows :
The Edison “Gem,** £2 12 6
The Edison “Standard,” £ 5 5 o
The Edison “Home,” £7 7 o
The Edison “Triumph,” dill 11 o
Call and hear the Edison with the new equipment, and ask
your dealer to tell you all about the Amberol Four-Minute
Records —the longest and best records ever made. A
full list of selections will be sent you on request.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Limited,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
BOOMERANG
AWARDED
LJ
IfGRAND I’kla
AT XJHUE
FRANCO -BRITISH EXHIBITION!


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE “ NEVER-STOP” HUMMING TOP.
Mr. . ■ -THC"
MO Rl H aWi
top. i--';
This new metal hum-
ming' top is of original
design, graceful in
outline, and hand-
somely painted in live
enamelled colors, and
measures 10 inches in
circumference. There
is nothing in the top
line that can approach
it. The top, being
metal and the spring
of tempered steel, is
practically indestruc-
tible. Spins about
three minutes, hum-
ming all the time.
Price 9d. each post
free anywhere, o r
three tops posted free
to any address for 2/-
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring'
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open. Makes a splendid knife for general
use, also a superior rabblter’s knife. Price, with full
directions, 2/2, post free anywhere.
E'/je
U.SA. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro>-
tected ladies, nightlr-
watch m e n, and
others. 0a n b e
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue-
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
S. SMITH & SON’S
r 30 35 XK
25 4O'
S.SMITH &.SON
6. STRAND 45
LONDON
91 (3) W M
P/TENT
From S Guineas.
(LTD.)
Perfect
SPEED
INDICATORS
ARE FITTED TO
Oyer 20,000 Cars
AND HAVE COVERED
200,000,000 Miles.
IN USE ALL OVER THE WORLD.
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF
SPEED INDICATORS, MOTOR WATCHES, MILOMETERS,
PETROL-METERS and MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue. Special Terms to Shippers.
9 Strand, London.
ICZZ rp
InJ
Lr Fc :
are for sale by ail progressive Hardware
and Sporting Goods Merchants,
AND
Han Beard’s splendid effort,
“ GUNS AND GUNNING,"
will be mailed post paid to any applicant
bv JV Stevens Arms & Tool Company,
Chicopee Falls, Mass., upon receipt of
price. For paper cover edition forward
1/3; for cloth bound book send 1/8.
Written for and published by
J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL CO.
546 Broadway,
Chicopee Fails, Mass., U.S.A.
am
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street. Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
Dee Are He Hay Dee Hen Hoe You Gee H Tea
£5O
Given away in sums of £\ each to first 50 persons sending correct answer
to above puzzle of one word only, before 31st July, 1909. With your
answer, enclose Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of DREADNOUGHT PILLS The
best Liver, Kidney, Blood and Bowel regulator ever known. We are giving these presents
to introduce our Wonderful Pills. Names and addresses of winners posted to all com-
petitors. If less than 50 correct answers, the £5O will be equally divided. Write at once,
as advt. may not appear again. The Empire Pill Co., Flinders St., Melbourne.
TERMS ARRANGED,
Do you want a Good Business in Melbourne,
Suburbs or Country from £2O to £5OOO ?
We arrange Terms to suit you.
Country Storekeepers and Shopkeepers should send
us particulars when wanting to sell. Numerous
clients always on the look out for good businesses.
WRIGHT & SWIFT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Cate, containing- On*
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, StSJ:
WIUTE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
* LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
DON’T PAY YOUR DOCTOR
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Our modern medical system Is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us 111. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS I . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do tout little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
things he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Db.MgLAUGHLIN’S electric belt
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It works wkile yon sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as £1 in many cases.
«s4p
If
n
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation. Hours— 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the mclauqhlin co m
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JOBEPH R. CORCORAN
The McLAUGHUN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1


Became Unbearable—Little Girl
Suffered Terribly—Would Tear
Her Flesh —Grew Thinner Day by
Day—Now Healthier than Ever.
CUTICURA CURIDHER
ECZEMA PERMANENTLY
“Last August I found a little pimple
exactly on the crown of my little daugh-
ter’s head. It be-
gan to grow larger
and larger, and later
it broke and hu-
mour came from it.
The head began to
be covered with an
eruption with hu-
mour exuding freely.
Annie suffered ter-
ribly, and her head
was so itchy that
she scratched it un-
til she tore the flesh,
and at night we
had to tie her hands,
the itching was so
fearful. The erup-
tion spread over the
whole of her head,
down part of her
. back, and even over
her face. A doctor’s ointment did her
no good. In fact, it seemed to make the
trouble worse, and the itching increased
until it was unbearable. If one spot
healed another became worse. When
the trouble started her health began to
fail, she was peevish, and grew thinner
day by day. I was in despair. At
last 1 tried Cuticura Soap, Cuticura
Ointment, and Cuticura Pills. At the
very first application the itching stopped,
as if by magic, and her head became
better every day. In ten days the
humour ceased altogether, and by the
time I had used one set of Cuticura
Remedies she was almost cured. I
got another set, and in a month she was
completely cured, so that you could not
tell she had ever had eczema. That
was three months ago and there has
never been any sign of a recurrence
since. Her health is better than ever,
and I ascribe her condition entirely to
Cuticura Remedies. Her hair is grow-
ing thicker and thicker, too. Mrs. John
Bisset, Easter Lumbennie, Newburgh,
Fife N. 8., June 14, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
A Single Set often Cures. Depots: London, 27
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix;
Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; South Africa,
Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U. S. A.. Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
sa* if?
UA
FAT
PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly enjoy GOOD HEALTH.
Our NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
FAT quickly, safely, and per-
Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THIN,
WEAK, NERVOUS, SCRAGGY,
FLAT-CHESTED, RUN-DOWN
and UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If you want to add flesh, be made
plump, stronfr, healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of
“MIRAOULA” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY*
There’s Style and
Solid Worth in
this Boot at 18/6
IT may be had either
in Glace or Box Oalf
—the leather in each
ease being specially
selected and very soft to
the foot. You can have
it both in black or tan,
as you prefer.
The price of this is
18/6 —posted in Victoria
9d. extra; to any other
State 1/S extra.
Send for our Booklet
illustrating our big range
of Footwear for Woman,
Man and Child. It’s free.
LEEMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street,
Melbourne;
and at North Melbourne
and Prahran.
THE BULLETIN POST CABDS.-New
Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packetof Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
eA@)
Glycerine and “ Benzoe ” Soaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
“Redness” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing- and softening
the skin, set up an irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
CLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
rrn
ns
MEN
OFIRON"
such as
Wellington, “the Iron Duke," seem
able to compel success They ••do
things " in peace or war. because they
are strong in mind, body and nerves.
No one can have a strong body or
healthy nerves if their digestion is
bad. Indigestion subjects man or
woman to a score of other ailments
You can banish all stomach troubles
by taking Mother Seigel’s Syrup!
Your highly efficacious remedy, Mother
Seigel's Syrup, relieved me, in 1905 of lon .
standing dyspepsia and all its distressing
consequences, and thoroughly re-invieorated
my whole system, ’which was very much run
down, owing to the continuous strain of my
sedentary occupation. There has been no
return of my old troubles."—From letter of
Mr. W. Park. Shanklin
(veteran State School Teacher)
23, Darling Street,
South Yarra, Melbourne,
August 7th, 1908!
MOTHER^^w
WEIGEL’S
l 3 SYRUP
BANDSMEN NOTE?
SOLE AGENTS for
HawKes & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST ll\l THIS WORLD."
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street’
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
Excess FAT
REDUCED!
Ten thousand fat women have
been reduced in
weight by from one
stone, even to eight
stone. . . There is
hope for you.
‘FATCURE’
cures obesity with-
out drastic dieting
or killing exercise.
It strengthens the
heart and builds up
the entire system.
5 lbs. a week re-
moved in average
cases. Send 2d.
stamp for full par-
ticulars and FREE
TRIAL Sample.
Call if convenient.
58
(iP
C.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
By Warrant of Appointment to H. \T. The King.
3
TYRES,
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.
*o*4. liuMrfcNUt ST., SYDNEY ;
226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne ;
10 McHenry St., Adelaide ;
also Perth, Hobart & Brisbane.
TO ARTISTS !
Twenty Guineas Prize.
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY”
offers a Prize of TWENTY GUINEAS for the best
COVER DESIGN.
Write for full particulars to :
THE MANAGER,
190 Flinders Street,
Early communication imperative. MELBOURNE.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRD!
Custard
Bird’s
Custard luith Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOB
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping-
Cough, Hoarseness, &g .
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
Icing Tonic could not have been won,
and continue to increase after
30 YEARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
remedy ever known. Beware of Sub-
stitutes; ask for “ OWBRIDGE"
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NO OTHER.
Sold everywhere
in bottles at Is. lid.,
»<1.,45. 6d.,.&i15.
COPYRIGHT.
BRIAR
SPECIAL
SILVER
MOUNTED
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCONISTS.
&
7
fNoH-iinq
ever
like Them
shown in
Australia
before.
If unable
To procure
at Local
Tobacconist
apply at
Wholesale
Depot.
size:
LARGER
[251 Clarence St SYDNEY]
%
%
*
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
1“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“ MONTSERRAT ’* LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jsk your Storekeeper for it
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
‘COAGrULINE,’* KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
-Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
Launceston (Tas.) Municipal Electric Light-
ing and Power Enterprise :
Total Revenue Work- Added to Total
Capital from ing Sinking Sinking
Expended. Working. Loss. Fund. Fund.
1899;. £91,639 £6,414 £251 £3,487
Profit.
1960.. 98,794 8,305 1490 £1054 4,541
1901.. 105,616 9,653 2192 935 5,476
1902.. 113,366 11,180 2913 1200 6,676
1903.. 115,580 10,692 1795 1390 8,066
1904.. 139,984 12,292 3710 1842 9,908
1905.. 155,314 13,079 2489 1355 11,263
1906.. 160,843 14,934 2794 2047 13,310
1907.. 164,197 16,287 3073 1974 15,284
1908.. 166,871 17,683 3414 2153 17,437
In the earlier years the accounts were not well pre-
sented, and it is impossible to follow all the proceedings
in those times ; but latterly the movements have been as
follows: —
Interest Added to Re-
Profit. Paid. Reserves. serves.
1903 .. £9,841
1904 .. £8,247 £4191 £4056 13,897
1905 .. 7,886 4973 2913 16,810
1906 .. 8,970 5601 3369 20,179
1907 .. 9,406 5698 3708 23,887
1908 .. 10,135 5897 4238 28,125
The reserves consist of —Sinking Fund, £17,437 ; Reserve
Fund, £10,598 ; and unappropriated profit, £9O. The
year’s working profit, after providing for the unusually
large amount of £294 of bad debts, was £9311 ; interest
paid amounted to £5897, and interest received on the
several sinking and reserve funds was £824, leaving the
net profit of £4238 shown in the last table as having been
added to reserves. The revenue account is charged with
maintenance and repairs ; but the Reserve Fund, beingde-
signed to meet exceptional expenditure—being, in fact,
to some extent an allowance for depreciation—is not a
true reserve. The proper plan is adopted of crediting
this fund with its own interest earnings. In that respect
the Launceston municipal council practises sounder'
finance than the City Council of Sydney.
The following shows the proportion which the
additions to the reserve or depreciation fund bear to the
total capital outlay :
Reserve Fund Capital Proportion to
Additions. Outlay. Capital Outlay.
1904 .. £7Bl £139,313 £0 11 2 per cent.
1905 .. 2177 155,314 1 8 0 „
1906 .. 1509 160,843 018 9 „
1907 .. 2737 164,197 1 13 4
1908 .. 2363 166,871 1 8 4 „
It is not a large provision for wear and tear ; still the fact
that current repairs and renewals are paid for out of re-
venue makes things rather better. The larger addition
made to the fund in 1907 was partly due to the repairs
and renewals costing less than usual; but even counting
that outlay in, the total spent or put aside for repairs !
and renewals is under 2 per cent., which is not enough.
It is clear that no further concessions can be safely
allowed to consumers. Profits are not mounting at all
rapidly, though the number of units sold has moved up.
The explanation lies in the fact that, owing apparently to ,
the increase in the use of the current for power and
heating, the average price obtained from private con-
sumers has shrunk rapidly. This gives the history of
the past few' years :
Units Sold. Average Price.
1905 .. .. 793,306 .. 4'46d.
1906 .. .. 994,523 .. 3'B6d.
1907 .. .. 1,308,880 .. 3'Ud.
1908 .. .. 1,533,286 .. 2'7Bd.
The street supply—paid for, of course, out of the rates—
costs the municipality l'66d. per unit. There seems to be
something wrong about this. The average price obtained
for private lighting was 5'25d. per unit last year; and
either that is too much or the l'66d. paid by the munici- !
pality is too little. Seeing that, after providing sinking
fund, less than 2 per cent, is available to pay for
renewals and provide for depreciation, it is fairly' clear
that the l - 66d. is not enough. Considering the
size of Launceston the cost of the public supply is very
small, and is only possible through a water power being
available for generating purposes. For the same reason
the necessary capital outlay has also been comparatively
small. The total amount borrowed, through the State
and the city corporation, is £156,131; but against that
there is already £24,548 of Sinking Fund securities.
* * * *
Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne) j incorpo-
rated in Dec., 1907, to take over the affairs of the Free-
hold Assets Realisation Co., which in its turn had the job
of giving more or less decent burial to the Freehold
Investment and Banking Co. ;
, Reserves.
Taken over from old co £14,119
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves.
Jan., 1908.. £1484 Nil £1484 15,603
Written off Reserves, £2957 .. 12’646
Dec., 1908., 6540 7 per cent. =£5197 1343 13*989
The Freehold Investment and Banking Co. of Australia
had a brief and riotous life. Born in 1892, it conferred
upon Victoria what some people are always representing
as an unmixed blessing—it “ introduced a large amount
of capital.” In other words, it got deeply into debt to
foreign people, and pledged its own capital to return 20s.
in the £to the foreign gentlemen. Then the usual thing
happened ; a large amount of capital which Australia
hadn’t gradually accumulated by steady work w’as made
suddenly available, and prices boomed ; and both the
shareholders’ own capital and the borrowed money were
put into assets valued on this boom basis. The concern
was one of the first to smash ; it had accumulated lia-
bilities to the amount of £1,351,012. Eventually
£1,291,671 of “A” deposit receipts were issued ; and some
“ B” receipts were subsequently issued to represent unpaid
interest. These latter were, how'ever, only a contingent
liability. A u'eary 16 years were spent in realising
properties and in trying to get receipt-holders to swap
their paper for as little land or cash as possible. Tre-
mendous discounts ruled at one time. In 1899-1900, for
instance, £71,065 of receipts were redeemed at a cost of
£17,352. But that sort of thing improved the position
for the rest; also the increased prosperity which arrived
in Australia along with Federation had the same effect
Consequently, after £806,704 of receipts had been wiped
out, the offers of the co. were treated with coldness •
whereupon it was decided that some other plan would
have to be adopted. This co. was the result.
The “A ” deposit receipts on October 15, 1907
stood for £484,967, against which there were assets re-
valued at £183,910. The assets were therefore worth
7s. 7d. in the £of the “A ” receipts. It was clear, then
that there was nothing for either the shareholders in the
Assets Realisation Co., representing the shareholders in
the old “bank,” or for the “B” or contingent receipt-
holders. The capital in the new co. was at first fixed at
£72,745, equal to 3s. in the £ of the deposit receipts ; for
another 4s. the holders got interminable 4 percent, deben-
tures ; and the other 7d. went to a reserve fund, out of
which expenses were to be paid. These expenses pro-
bably account for all or part of the £2957 shown above as
written off. Another 1500 shares were issued to under-
writers, making the present paid capital £74,245. So far
things have panned out very well. Last year properties
standing at £17,797 were sold, and on the sales which have
been completed a profit of £2871 was made. Further
profit is expected on sales made on terms ; but this ex-
pected profit is not included in the reserves shown above.
In the balance-sheet it is lumped with other things into a I
“ Leasehold Amortization and Realisation Suspense Ac-
count,” which stands at £7459. During the year the co.
bought up the assets of the Albert Building Society (in
liquidation), and has entered on that kind of business ; at
Dec. 31 it had £21,500 out on short call, and £58,440
owing on mortgage. Besides the profit from this source
and from properties, it made £499 last year by repurchas-
ing its own 4 per cent, debenture stock at a discount.
This stock represented £86,337 at the end of the year!
Altogether it seems that a very thorough cleaning-up has
been done, and there are good prospects of somethin"-
fairly substantial coming to the shareholders by way of
recoveries.
* * V *
News comes from London that a subsidiary co.
is about to be formed to work the Cornish tin property
which the Cosmopolitan and Hannan’s Proprietary (W.A)
own between theip. . A lot of money has lately been
spent in developing. Show, and the outlook is alleged
to be good, 'tff/f/fi#


mm?
ITT
iiJ
?s*
<ls
V
3*c-t "
•Jv"
SI
V •*.''.
si
v-: _
a
Q
■.■'A':-,-'
d_3CJ
•• v-.
•'i
C 7
c
:'C3.
\ /a
C_l
■ ;u
IP ' ,
i
mm
K ■
fern.
#
x*
1
o
• A
ItVy’-'E- ■
....
•.,*_**tv : v ;-.>
* \MA •
A#
C\ :» .
'o’.v.;
m
0.15,
p»
-
C* T D
p. j_>
m
*
*
L 3
E
D
FL
I
• - -.
ALE.K
>5 A* 5
UE.E.NSLAN
c
Adelaide Steamship Co.
Ltd.
S.S. GRANTALA S.S. WOLLOWRA
S.S. MARLOO S.S. INNAMINCKA
Australasian United Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
T.S.S. WYREEMA S.S. WODONGA
5.5. WYANDRA S.S. ARAWATTA
*T,S.S. KURANDA
Howard Smith Co.
Ltd.
S.S. COOMA S.S. BOMBALA
S.S. PEREGRINE
*T.S.S. MOURILYAN
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES.
From Melbourne to Cairns £l6 10 O
~ Sydney to Cairns ••• 14 O O
~ Brisbane to Cairns ... IO IO O
~ Adelaide to Cairns ... 210 0
Fremantle to Cairns 29 O O
99
* Between Townsville and Cairns via intermediate ports.
For Full Particulars or Descriptive
Pamphlets apply Agents at all Ports.


D6EL
Pure Herbal
A N
9
S
Skin Soap.
Important Analyses,
F. H. MOLESWORTH, F.C.S., F.G.S., Mem. Soc. Chem Ind. London; Public Analyst and Assayer;
Late Lecturer in Chemistry S.A. Government and Technical College, Sydney.
Central Analytical and Assay Office, Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street Sydney 21st September ions
e a careful analysis of a sample of “ Kuffelmann’s Pure Herhoi coin »» , P ' 908.
H ‘ f - KUGELMANN & CO., 199 Clarence Street, Sydney. Gentlemen,-I have made C r C ar a e , f^i n Salys a i , s a o n f d aiamDle°nf“ , |fu^m?nn^ h p ,^r er f.’ 8 k f i JL St ’ r l e *’ S /dney, 21st September, 1908.
neither ha^no- 3 "* 1 f * ts ’ sa P° nif, ed with Pure alkali. It contains no free alkali, nor any substance deleterious to the most delicate°skin KU He i ba Sk »! , \.i. So l p ’ which 1 find to be composed of
which W if, ving any trace of animal or poisonous materials. Having powerful but non=poisonous antiseptics thorouohiv f”',! The perfume and color are both of natural and harmless plant origin
toilet 1 iT “ i M mo \ e . d s ise . ases of the ■skin and restore it to a healthy condition. It is process of manufacture, this soap possesses healing properties
anyw’here W ilL aSSiSt *ii. ke .fP in £ the bod y in health, and will have a pleasing, soothing effect the skin. “Kugelmann’/ 4l Soaps ; a " d if used regularly as an adjunct of the
■anywhere else upon the human body where hair does not grow naturally. Yours faithfully, or
anv H '«?l KUGELMANN & CO., Sydney. Gentlemen,—We have analysed a sample of “ Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin <sna«™ iC^!/i a ?ila A a* 8 f y laboratory, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney, 7th July, 1908.
properties and a K Ce ‘. 14 is m ? de from pure ve K etable oils, and contains a non-poisonous but powerful antiseptic This soao’has * manufactured article, containing no free alkali, or
■ - ”»•--
moist^ Bs^ 1 !; f* KUGELMANN & CO., 199 Clarence Street, Sydney. Gentlemen,-I have made an analysis of a^imiu' l «V'“^ ra^°« ry ’ Li ? CO L n , " n 1 Chambers, 38 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, 16/4/’O9.
sas-s?j^- c ss“a.lgs ,SSI t^^Vo^l^^
toilet and curative purposes. Yours faithfully, (Signed) JAMES MAYNE, Public Analyst under AeaUh VESSEL??
ACME OF PERFECTION.
A S SHAVING SOAP and
toilet preparation, KUGEL-
MANN’S pure herbal skin
S JAP is fast achieving a position before
au others as the Soap for special treatment for the
complexion and skin, as well as for medical
hygienic, shaving and general toilet purposes.
1 tie main reason for this unique assumption of
is that KUGELMANN’S HERBAL
otkiJN oUAr is not merely an article of ordinary
commercial manufacture, but is carefully pre-
pared under the direction and from the prescrip-
tion of Australia’s Leading Consulting Herbal
1 ractitioner, so as to really constitute a part of
his treatment. In short, two great principles
form the solid base of this Herbal Soap :
1. That ABSOLUTE PURITY is essential in
any article of constant application to that delicate
vital organ, the Skin.
2. I hat soap affords one of the readiest mediums
medical treatment of the human body
The HERBAL SKIN SOAP in its present
form represents the fruit of nearly forty years’
experience in the use and prescription of beneficent
herbs for the cure of Australian maladies, and,
therefore, is better adapted to the climatic and
other conditions of Australian life than any
imported soap.
For the Prevention of Redness and Skin Irrita-
tion of all kinds, the cure of Eczema, Tetter,
rung worm, Shingles, Blotches, Pimples and
1 reckles ; the prevention and cure of Dandruff,
fostering a stimulating effect upon the growth of
the Hair, stopping falling-out, inducing growth
and making it soft and glossy. As a dentifrice, it
arrests deeay and produces a dazzling brilliance.
For Shaving, is of Unique Benefit, owing to its
production of a rich, lasting and creamy lather, and
the exercise of soothing and hygienic functions
upon the skin.
In the nursery its beneficent effects upon the
tender skin of infancy obviates the use of powder,
etc., the child’s skin being always kept cool and
smooth by its use.
“ Beauty’s Aid ” is the well-earned title of this
Herbal Skin Soap, because, in a healthy and per-
manent manner, it enhances natural beauties as
no mere nostrum Ccin over hope to do. In every
department of the toilet, and for every medicinal
or hygienic purpose for which soap can be used,
this soap has proved superior to any other soap.
The Greatness of the Herbal Skin Soap is the
greatness of Nature. It is a rare combination of
natural organic remedies culled from the grand
and simple provision of Mother Earth, whose
vegetable kingdom contains in abundance the only
medicines suited for assimilation by mankind.
The great appreciation of Kugelmann's pure
Herbal Skin Soap is indicated by the following
selection of testimonials, which are portion of those
we are daily receiving from every part of Australia:
FOR HEALING.
39 Phillip Street, Sydney, March 20th, 1909.
Messrs. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Bear Sirs,—l wish to say that, after an experience of
years, I have found Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap to
have the greatest healing effect. It will take a sting from
a burn in a few minutes, and for chapped hands and face
it is unequalled. Our family would’ not be without it ;
my daughters all use it for the hair, and we have also’
found that, used instead of tooth powder, it cleanses the
teeth beautifully, and leaves a sweet, fresh taste in the
mouth.- Yours faithfully (Signed), M. M. Bartholomew.
Dungay Creek, Tweed River, N.S.VV.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann <fc Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—Dairymen should never be without your
Herbal Skin Soap. In my long experience I have never
seen its equal in the treatment of <‘Milk Rot,” “Sore
Teats,” and other diseases to which cattle are subjected
—(Signed) E. J. Franks.
38 Cambridge Street, Paddington, 21st April, 1909.
H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—There is no soap I have yet tried that has
half as much softening and refining influence on the skin
as Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap. In cold and
damp weather my skin shows a disposition to get harsh,
sore and chapped, but a gentle laving with your soap
entirely removes these defects, and makes the skin
smooth and supple. Washing with this soap also abso-
lutely prevents any roughness and chapping. However
much the cold westerly blow my skin is quite unaffected,
if I have first washed it with Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.—(Signed) Yours truly, E. Williams.
Eurobin, Victoria.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—l always use your Herbal Skin Soap for
shaving. It has in every way a splendid effect upon the
skin. I have recommended it to several sufferers from
skin disease in this district, and they all speak very highly
of it. I have used over a dozen boxes, and will shortly be
sending for a fresh supply. (Signed) George C. Weston.
FOR SKIN, HAIR and SHAVING.
Park Street, Sydney, 17th April, 1909.
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Having' used Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap
for many months for shaving purposes, I am thoroughly
convinced I can do no better. It is refreshing 1 and in vie;-
orating to the skin, which it leaves smooth and supple
which other shaving soaps certainly do not.—Yours faith-
fully, (Signed) F. McNulty.
6 Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
™ „ 22nd April, 1909.
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, I have used shaving soap in Europe
America and other portions of the globe, but have come
across no soap equal to yours. It makes a stiff creamy
lather, enabling the razor to thoroughly do its work ; and
it leaves the skin perfectly smooth after the shavim>- is
over. This is a great advantage, as other soaps leave a
sort of unpleasant stiffness of the skin, which takes some
little time to wear off.—Yours truly, (Signed) F. E. Smith.
91 Station Street, Newtown, Sydney, April 24th, 1909
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—Having used your Herbal Skin Soap for
the last twelve (12) years, for hair, skin and teeth, 1 can
speak of it as one “having authority.” Your “ Aus-
tralian production ” is an exquisite soap, and I wish it
the success in New South Wales that it deserves.—l am
Gentlemen, yours truly, (Signed) M. A. Mahony. ’
65 Lee Street, North Carlton, Victoria
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—l have been using your Herbal Skin Soap
for all purposes (toilet, dentifrice, head wash and shav-
ing) for 12 months, and it is the finest soap I have ever
used. lam so enthusiastic about it that I have bought
boxes of the Herbal Skin Soap as presents for friends
who, I may say, have since become your regular patrons’
For old people with delicate skin or blotches, such as
they are subject to, this soap is especially soothing
being an infallible cure for these troubles.— (Sivncd)
J. F. W. Lennox.
~ „ „ „ Aubigney, via Oakey, Queensland.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, I have much pleasure in acknowledging
the benefits our family has derived from your Herbal
Skin Soap. It has been our only family soap for the past
three years for the skin, and we have found it in every
way splendid.—(Signed) Catherine Hartigan.
m
m
I
'
A Wise Mother who uses Kugelmann's Soap for her Hair and her Baby.
jPgSI
„ Billinudgel, North Coast, April 2nd, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugf.lmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sirs, I have used your Herbal Skin Soap continuously
for a period of over two years. During that time I have
given it an exhaustive trial, and can now faithfully reconi-
mend it to all who are in quest of a really good soap. For
the Skin and Hair it stands unrivalled, while for shaving it
completely eclipses all other soaps on the market. My
husband has tried all the best of the advertised shaving
soaps, but says your soap is absolutely without parallel.
It preserves an excellent lather, and ensures a delightful
shave. We will never be without it, and will never tire
of recommending it to our friends.—(Signed) Mrs. Jas.
Cdllen.
PRIMA DONNAS and ACTRESSES
DECLARE IT UNSURPASSED.
The Misses Spears,
Hairdressers, Masseuses, and Manicurists.
50 Castlereagh Street, opposite Hotel Australia,
at Tr „ Sydney, 22nd April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
®' r ?> tVe are delighted with kugelmann’s Pure
Herbal Skin Soap. Situated as our establishment is
immediately opposite the Australia Hotel, Sydney, we
frequently receive visits from prima donnas, leading
actresses, etc., who have toured the world, and they, one
and all declare that your soap has a softening, refresh-
ing and invigorating effect upon the skin, which they
have failed to find in the finest soaps of London, Paris or
New York.—Yours very faithfully, (Signed) M. G. Spears.
AS A SKIN TONIC.
102 Little Simmonds Street, Newtown, Sydney,
at tt „ 27th April,' i. 909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
1?9 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs—l have never yet met with a soap to equal
your Herbal Skin Soap for bathing purposes. Itproduces
a rich, creamy lather without any trouble, and gives one
a feeling of general lightness and freshness, which must
be experienced to be properly appreciated. It is so re-
freshing that you feel as though you had taken a tonic.—
Faithfully j r ours, (Signed) Mrs. H. Griffiths.
91 Wells Street, Newtown, Sydney, 25th April, 1909.
Messrs. H. H. Kcjgklmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney'.
f an , l ,Y er y Phased to give you a testimonial to
the virtue of Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap, and to the
very excellent softening effect it has upon the skin. Most
soaps leave the skin harsh, and instead of smoothing
pff B a n y T= roU v hneSS and s ® reness seeni to increase these
effects. Your soap, however, acts in the contrary
direction, and makes the skin soft, silky and elastic to
the touch.—Yours very truly, (Signed)Mrs. A. L. Harris.
Gladstone Road, Mile End, S.A.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—l am delighted with your Herbal Shin
Soap, which is the best I have ever used. (Signed)
A. Rossi. “ '
FOR BABIES and CHILDREN.
45 Simmonds Street, Newtown, Sydney, 27th April 1909
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l have used your soap for washing my
children’s hair. It has an excellent effect upon their
hair, making it beautifully bright and clean. It also has
the effect of making the children’s hair silky to the touch
and gives it a silky lustre also. All of which is so different
to ordinary soaps, which make the hair dry and brittle
and cause it to break off in short lengths.—Yours
obediently, (Signed) Mrs. N. McCabe.
Waterview Street, Balmain, Sydney, 22nd April 1909
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, All mothers should use Kugelmann’s Pure
Herbal Skin Soap for their babies, as it entirely keeps
away soreness. Before I started to use Kugeltiiann's
Herbal Skin Soap, my baby used to get sore, notwith-
standing my using boracic ointment, etc. ; but since I
have used your soap to wash the baby there has never
been the slightest sign of soreness. Other e o has not
the same curative effect upon my baby’s skin as your
soap has, but often produced soreness instead of keeping
it away.—(Signed) Bella Mackay.
172 Darley Street, Newtown, Sydney, 27th April, 1909
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
, Sirs,—So far I have tried your soap only for my chil-
dren, and for this it is quite unequalled. It cleanses
their hair, making it soft, bright, and glossy, and anv
little sore or pimple disappears shortly after the child ha's !
been lathered with the Herbal Skin Soap. It may be
fancy, but to me it seems the children are brighter and
fresher after Kugelmann’s Skin Soap than after having
been washed with cheaper and coarser soaps.—Faithfully
yours, (Signed) Mrs. E. Walsiiaw.
59 Camden Street, Newtown, Sydney.
„ _ rr 27th April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sirs,—Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap made the scalp
of my children’s heads splendidly white and their hair
bright and glossy. It is the first soap which has proved
itself entirely satisfactory for this purpose. Another
good point in its favor is that it does not make the
children’s eyes smart half as much as do other soaps
Yours truly, (Signed) Mrs. E. Hurst.
Buy in Sydney from Lassetter's, Georae Street » ,
"*■" & C ° ' /?e</fefn/ Oxford Street; W&»JZZ J7 O^^ZZ^Hou^.
IF NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY, WILL BE POSTED BY THE PROPRIETORS ON RECEIPT OF POSTAL NOTE FOR 2/6.
Obtainable also at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers throu s hout Australasia in boxes of three tablets.
PROPRIETORS s H. E. RUGELMANN (& CO.
Wholesale Druggists and Manufadurers
14-16 Queen St., Melbourne; 199 Clarence St, Sydney; and at Adelaide and Brisbane.
Free Sample sent
on receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.


The boundary rider from his horse
Got slung off in the creek,
He used some words of which, of course,
’Twere better not to speak.
“ This drink’s a fearful curse,” said he
“ Henceforth I will abjure ; -
And it is a lucky thing for me
I’ve Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
IN
BANANA LAND.
W. K. D’Arcy, the ex-Rockhampton man
who has owned a big slice of Mount Morgan from
the start, has struck what promises to be another
fortuue in Persia, and is now blossoming as an oil
magnate. This is the result of big concessions
from the Government; a trifle of £300,000 did the
first trick, it seems. Then D’Arcy sold his in-
terests in the deal to the Burmah Oil Co. for
170,000 shares in a co. of 900,000, and £203,068
in cash. Afterwards old-man Strathcona pur-
chased from the Burmah Oil Co. a twentieth of the
interests acquired, and a boodling concern called
the Concessions Syndicate joined the circus by
purchasing shares. This combination put heads
together and decided to appear to the earth as
the Anglo-Persian Oil Co., with a capital of
£2,ooo,ooo—the biggest flotation in London during
recent times.
If he gets the Labor nomination, for which
he has one leg in, ex-Senator W. G. Higgs intends
storming the Capricornia seat at next Federal
election. It is at present held by E. W. Archer,
who is a boy of the Jokook breed. But for Andy
Dawson’s vote-splitting business at the last elec-
tion Laborite Higgs would probably be President
of the Senate to-day.
Horrible letter from a man at Thursday
Island :
Here in Torres Straits the shelling industry lias got
entirely into the hands of the Japanese. Only one white
diver lingers on, and he is giving the job up in disgust.
His boat is an ancient one that a Jap would not be
seen in. The Jap is boss, and he knows it. Yet he
has the wit not to squeeze the boat-owners too hard,
but keeps them on the wriggle, wondering whether or
not they will pay expenses. The boat-owner now has to
pay the Jap diver £B5 per ton for the shell he gets, and
all pearls belong to the Japs. The owner, if he wants
pearls, must buy them ; and he is also responsible
for the crew’s wages and all expenses of the
boat, and for pump and diving gear should the diver
not pay up. The b6che-de-mer industry is entirely
in Japanese hands, with the exception of a few Malays
(who work small boats for the local storekeepers), and
two.white men. On Thursday Island there used to be
many white carpenters and boatbuilders. Now there is
only one. But there are five or six slips and building-
yards which employ Japs. The firewood industry once
employed many white men—they had it in their own
hands and did well at the work. Now tlie Japs
control it. Further, the Japs run the fish-catch-
ing trade and supply the town. The only trade
on the island they have not an interest in is black-
smithihg. Some years ago, a deputation of Japs
came to Jamie Browning, the then local and only smith.
They offered to give him two smart Japs to work for him
without wages. However, James gave them the rough
edge of his broad Scotch accent and hunted them. If he
had taken them in, Japs would no doubt by now have
been running the blacksmithing business too.
HE KNEW HOW TO DO IT.
SALVATIONIST: “My dear friend, take my advice art turn that up.”
HIS DEAR FRIEND: “O’ course I will! Did yer think I was goin' ter put me end down and
drink, like a bloomin’ ’orse.”
Portland Downs (Q.) often wore a coat of
the reddest paint in the early days. Three rela-
tives of the Duke of Portland bought the property
for £75,000 cash. While at Rockhampton, one of
the three bought a ship’s tank, which was to go
up as an empty. But the clerk pointed out that
it would cost no more for carriage if it was full.
So John Ellis said, “Fill it with rum.” The
news of the waggon’s cargo flashed through
the bush. Sundowners met the cavalcade eri
route , and were bought off with a stiff nip
from which they only recovered in most cases
when the waggon was far out of sight. At length
the tank arrived at Portland Downs, when it was
reverently placed on a stand specially built for it
by a sailor-carpenter ; and the things that hap-
pened during the next few weeks put a crimson
garnish round the romance surrounding the
Australian career of the three wild young Eilises.
Queensland sugar men are excited over
the reported discovery of a cane-grub parasite in
the Isis" district. One Sherrington, manager of
Lynwood—tin property of the Youngs, of Fairy-
mead—noticed the grubs dying from what looked
like a fungus. Cane which was badly grub-infected
six weeks previously was found to be entirely free
from the pest. An investigation followed, and by
the aid of a magnifying glass it was discovered
that the grubs were covered with minute insects.
These were making a meal of the grub, and then
depositing hundreds of eggs in the crevices of the
beast’s body. The young hatched very quickly,
and -many were found in fhe surrounding soil.
Six infected grubs in their native soil were sent
across to Bundaberg, and within a few days hun-
dreds of young parasites were found in the ground
with their eyes sweeping the horizon for more
grubs. The mill chemist is now experimenting,
and Queensland’s entomologist is also staring
hard.
Mount Ussher, near Rockhampton—the
scene of the early Crocodile rush, which followed
the settlement of Rockhampton—is just about in
the undertaker’s hands. Here it was that the
diggers’ chased the numerous John Chinaman,
the polluter of the diggers’ water, with stones and
bad language in ’73. Occasionally since then a
few reefing shows on the side of the ranges have
caused the old Croc, to flare up ; but m that flare
the mining moth has generally been singed. JNow
Mount Ussher’s bars are closed all the week
even on Sundays—and the cattle lie under the
verandahs and poke their horns through the
windows.
Cattle-man Kidman’s latest purchase is
Tilbooroo, on the Paroo, founded 40 years ago by
Sullivan, Jones, and Dowling. Sullivan, who
was general manager for some years, afterwards
took up Beechal, under exciting circumstances. A
Warrego owner named Bignall and he agreed to
fix up Beeclial for a mutual friend named Lyons ;
but something occurred which bred distrust. So
thev both arrived on the spot with stock, one of
the conditions necessary in acquiring country in
those times. Then the fun began. It meant a
race to Charleville to lodge applications first in,
first served. Sullivan was an old light-weight
steeplechaser, and was mounted on a grey horse,
noted for fence performances in Victoria. Big-
nall was a heavyweight, but his station was
between the disputed run and Charleville, which
meant that he could get a change of steeds.
Sullivan, nevertheless, got across the 180 miles
first, and later on handed the property to Lyons.
Inventor Bleeck, of Brisbane, who is
bracketed with Love in the matter of the new
electric battery which is to make the ’possum and
the kangaroo still better known in the industrial
world, is off to London to show a large firm what
the invention can do. The Q. Naval Com-
mandant tried the battery in connection with
wireless telegraphy recently at Cleveland, and is
credited with the opinion that this combination
gave a superior service on account of both porta-
bility and power.
“Sacred Ibis” Meston, ex-Protector of
Black Brother, who returned to Brisbane the
other day, had a pretty close call'while up north
inquiring into the possibilities of the sandalwood
trade. At Hay’s Creek, just after' battling with
an attack of mangrove fever for three weeks, he
had an argument with a black snake with a yellow
head. He killed the reptile, but didn’t know until
a few hours later that he had been bitten.
Then he set sail in his lugger for Thurs-
day Island, where he arrived in a serious
condition; but the doctor pulled him through.
Meston brought back from the North a new plant
which even he had never seen before. It has
several heavy stems springing from a common
root, and its fruit is pure white and of good flavor.
Several seeds have been planted in the Brisbane
Botanic Gardens. From Weymouth Bay he also
brought a queer sort of sounding-stick, A sapling
about 3ft. long and in diameter rounded at
the ends is held loosely between Binghi’s fingers
above the head, ahd is beaten with another piece
of hardwood about a Jp.qt long. This produces a
noise which can be hbard miles off anyhow,
Meston says it’s xnilqh, \
“Cookin’.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’VE been down the Cooper drovin’, an’ I’m
sick an’ tired o' rovin’.
An’ the name o’ travellin’ cattle makes my
very innards creep ;
For a little of it’s fillin’, an’ I’m somethin’ more
than willin’
To go back to Hasher’s caffy for my twenty bob
an’ keep.
I ’ad read o’ Mr. Clancy, an’ ’is billet took my
fancy,
An’ I thought that I’d go drovin’ with the ’ornies
for a spell;
So I counted up my riches, an’ I bought a pair o’
breeches
Fittin’ loosely round the bosom, an’ a pair o’
spurs as well.
When I got up to Farina, I ’ad seven an’ a
deener,
An’ I blued it with a drover as was goin’ out for
stock.
When I’d drowned me bottom dollar, I implored
him for a “ collar,”
An’ I says, “ I’m good at cookin’, an’ I’m ’andy
as a clock.”
’E was labelled Billy Naylor, an’ ’e made me cook
an’ tailer
When we started out for Birdsville, on the Queens-
land border-line;
An’ a sort o’ tender-feelin’ from the saddle kept
me kneelin’
While I cooked the charcoal fritters an’ the
bullock, salt as brine.
I ’ad somehow missed my studies in the art of
huntin’ cuddies,
For I couldn’t find ’em mornin’s, an’ the night-
horse knows I tried ;
So the boss says, wrathful lookin’: “You ’ad
better stick to cookin’,
Or we’ll ’ave the papers tellin’ ’ow another new-
chum died.”
When we got the cattle started I was nearly
broken ’earted,
What with saddle-galls an’ rheumatiz an’ not a
pub in sight;
There were other little matters, for my clothes
were worn to tatters,
An’ my eyes were red an’ weepin’ with the pains
o’ sandy-blight.
I was up at break o’ daylight huntin’ firewood in
the grey light
With the boss a-growlin’, “ Blime, there is plenty
if you look ” ;
While the tailer’s whip'was crackin’ round the
’orses we was packin’,
And the hands were mostly cursin’ at the tucker
and the cook.
Five miles on we camped for dinner, an’ —well,
blow me for a sinner
If they didn’t ask for brownie, an’ inquire for
sauce an’ jam !
For they ’ad their little fancy, jest the same as
Mr. Clancy ;
As for cooky’s little troubles—why, they never
cared a d n.
At the night-camp I was porter, with a load o’
wood an’ water
That ’ud strain a blessed camel if you put it on ’is
back ;
Boilin’ beef an’ damper-bakin’, while my bones
were fairly achin’ —-
That’s the kind o’ little picnic, drovin’ cattle up
the track.
I’d ’ave ’ardly got to drowsin’ when some bloke
’ud come arousin’—
“Come on, cooky, get a move on! Ain’t you
goin’ on watch to-night ?”
Then I’d do my three hours’ joggin’, with the old
night-’orse a-boggin’
Through the mud an’ slush an’ water while I kep’
the mob in sight.
An’ the rivers, birds an’ flowers, an’ the sweet an’
’appy hours,
An’ the larkin’ an’ the singin’, what the poet
wrote about,
Was as scarce as needed stitches to repair my
fractured breeches,
Or as springs o’ foamin’ shandy in the middle of a
drought.
That’s the reason (an’ ’e’ll know it!) why I’m
' lookin’ for a poet
Who’s been writin’ tales o’ drovin’ jest to take a
feller down;
That’s the reason why I’m lookin’ for a steady job
o’ cookin’,
Where I’ll never see a bullock, an’ I’ll never leave
the town.
QUEENSLAND.
DEXTER.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 5, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The imminent advent of the Dudley lord and
his lady to Brisbane is looked forward to with a
joy that is almost holy. In anticipation, the
somewhat scrubby face of the official residence is
being thoroughly washed, and a garden artist is
employed daily from dawn till dusk trimming
the untidy hair of the hedges and things of the
demesne.
In the meantime, the ladies who run our most
up-to-date hospital, the Lamington, have bagged
Melba to open and generally preside over a garden
fete, for the upkeep of the female repair shop, on
Monday, the 28th inst. Mrs. Mayoress Wilson,
thb energetic, will lend a practical hand.
Tittell Brune, in “The Girl from the Golden
West,” with its strange loves and hates, provokes
some curious ideas. Wasn’t it the grandmother
of Ambrosine who declared that people were
mostly sorry for the things they hadn’t done?
Consider and pity the poor old Wild West sheriff,
whom Tittell swindles out of herself at a poker
game. It was all very fine and upright of him to
come the heroic and let his prisoner go when the
lady filled her “full hand” out of her stocking;
but how he must have bitten his nails in the little
cabin afterwards, while the blizzards howled
outside, and he mused on lost chances. I
think the spectacle of this bamboozled official is
one of the truest touches of pathos in the show.
The company’s season opened inauspiciously
here on Monday, for most of the pedple
who generally fill the stalls were at the
opening meet of the new private skating club,
which, with those energetic dames, Mrs. Cecil
Palmer and Mrs. H. D. Cohen, at its helm,
promises to be just about the most hall-
marked and jolly thing going. Tittell—to get
back to our muttons—won her usual posy of red
roses, and next night there was an elegant roll-up
and a fine array of gallery boys and girlsentering
volubly into the business.
We are skating mad. Even charity has to
roll for a living. Tuesday evening saw all Bris-
bane and its family at the Glide-away Rink, where
the proceeds, or part of them, were ear-marked
for the Lady Bowen Maternity Home. There
were several contests. Pretty nurses lit cigarettes
for reckless young he-skaters ; and a white team
was much admired. s
Miss Davy and Mr. Thorpe were pronounced
the most graceful couple on the floor, with Mrs.
Cecil Palmer and her partner close runners-up.
A toboggan contest for ladies was also included in
the evening’s bill; but when one adventurous She
had spread herself like thin butter over the floor
for several minutes, and none of the assembled
sisterhood seemed likely to follow her, the man-
agement rang the event off. Meanwhile the com-
mittee sold refreshments and cakes galore, also
tea and coffee. The prizes were real valuable, as
sister Jonathan might say; and so I beLieve were
the profits.
There is going to be a boarding-house boom here
at Carnival time, which, being a jubilee event,
will hold up the city for as much as three weeks.
Already rooms are being rushed ; and the
organising-sec. of the League is busy securing
accommodation for the 140-odd delegates to the
Women’s Political Conference, who will assemble
here during that gay period. They will come,
some of them, from the uttermost parts of the
Commonwealth, I’m told.
And talking of jubilee shows reminds me that
the sec. of the local Agricultural Association
took “ a wife unto himself ” yesterday. He' wasn t
as above-board as he 'might have been over it
either, but conspired with Miss Ethel Woolley to
do the thing at seven o’ night, which behavior pre-
vented little sister Kate from putting on her best
clothes and pelting the happy pair with rose
leaves, as is usual in such cases. The nice little
bride only landed , an hour or so before the cere-
mony, which was run through by the Rev. G.
Ewan.
Two trains as long as sea-serpents left on Thurs-
day night for Rockhampton, and high revel will
be held in that sinful city for the next 10 days.
Kidston and his missus and the Denhams and a
chick were among the departees.
The date of the opening of the local Parliament
is now pretty well fixed for the 28th, when a fairly
lively time may be looked for. On the admission
of the Government Whip, the Phidstons have
only a majority of four, and that’s assuming that
Jimmy Forsyth gets in for the Moreton, lately
vacated by Campbell, and that Denny Keogh,
Jenkinson, Cottell and Petrie all stand the tire
test, which is extremely doubtful. In fact, the
whole situation may be summed up as a gigantic ?,
with a general election concealed somewhere in its
curves.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
According to recent disclosures the nihilist of
the business world is not the Labor party after all, but
the office boy. He is the gangrene, the dry rot, the worm
in the root of modern commercialism. In Bendigo a
number of firms recently went into the matter eery
elaborately, and set down their losses on the non-probity
of the office boy at £4500. Presumably this was for one
year. According to recent statements in the Chamber of
Commerce, the ways of the office boy with the stamp
fund are past finding out. The commercial world stands
in awe of the office boy, and has called upon inventors to
save it from the monster, for to keep a check on him
seems impossible except by hiring two men to watch him.
The Carmichael automatic stamping machine has been
designed, not only to rescue the commercial world from
the oppression under which it groans, but to save Govern-
ments the cost of printing millions of adhesive stamps.
The machine is not yet legally privileged to put itself on
the market; but it is understood that the Australian
Parliament, when it has finished fusing and burning out,
will put the harmless, necessary Bill through its final
reading. The machine itself is a monument of ingenuity,
and was invented by two Maorilanders. It is somewhat
on the principle of a cash register ; but much more diffi-
cult to fake. The firm buys its machine, and the Post
Office fixes the stamp dies, locks and seals up the machine,
reads the meter fortnightly, or monthly, and collects the
cheque. When people take letters to the post themselves
they step into the office, pay the price; and the clerk at
the'counter runs the letter through the machine. Each
firm which buys a machine will have a number allotted
to it. This will appear on its stamps, and thus ensure
prompt return of undelivered letters without the trouble
of opening them. The machine has proved capable of
stamping up to 2000 letters in one hour in the hands of
an ordinary boy—most boys are ordinary or worse. The
advantages are that it does away with the necessity of
buying adhesive stamps, or keeping a stamp fund. No-
body will risk buying envelopes or wrappers that have
been stamped by the unscrupulous office-boy, as
the presence of the number will prove them to be
stolen, and the game will not be worth the candle.
The saving to firms will be enormous; while the
Post Office will save the cost of printing millions of stamps
annually. The machine stamps in one motion either £d.,
Id., 2d. or 6d. As a masterpiece of well-thought-out
mechanism, the Carmichael Automatic Stamper will be
hard to supersede, while in the matter of safeguards
against fraud it is apparently infallible. The only weak
spot seems to be that when the office-boy is under notice
to quit he may revenge himself on the firm by stamping
all the bits of waste paper within reach and then burning
them. After that he can depart with the contented feel-
ing that he has cost the Old Man about £lO. His dis-
honesty may be provided against, but not his malice ; and
Hell has no’fury like an office-boy scorned.


THE EDUCATION OF QUEENSLANDERS.
In Queensland the Education of the rising genera-
tion is splendidly provided for.
In 1907 there were 1051 State, provisional and
other schools.
The scholars enrolled were 105,382.
Education is—
(1) Free.
(2) Secular (non-denominational).
(3) Compulsory.
There were 19 Technical Colleges in operation in
Queensland in 1908.
The total number of students was 4702.
School Cadet forces are foot and mounted.
They number over 5000.
Every male child in Queensland can become a prac-
tical patriot, and learn to bear arms in defence
of his native or adopted land.
Scholarship is practically directed to material
wealth-development.
But pure scholarship is encouraged and subsidised.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXIII.
MORE ABOUT EDUCATION.
By J. D. FITZGERAKD.
The world is more and more realising that educa-
tion must be practical—that the curriculum must
be planned with two broad principles in mind;
the first, that it must be adjustable to the peculiar
abilities of the pupil; and secondly, that it must
be applicable to the task of assisting the indi-
vidual in developing the natural wealth of the
State. In Queensland this has been the plan
adopted. The principle is, that if a lad is to be-
come a farmer, he shall be put in the way of being
a better farmer than the farmer of the past. He
will be an intelligent farmer; he will know
something of book-keeping, chemistry, the
nature of soils, of markets abroad, of horses
and cattle, sheep and pigs; of the true scien-
tific inwardness of the processes employed
in his calling. As a dairyman he will
be a practical bacteriologist as well as a practical
carpenter, blacksmith, farrier or saddler. He will
know something of diseases in stock, poultry or
crops, and will he ready with a remedy. And in
the same way, if the lad’s native abilities and
tastes mark him out as a Greek or Latin scholar,
a mathematician, a jurist, a physician or a surgeon,
he will be encouraged along the lines of his natu-
ral bent, until his matured mind, his ample attain-
ments shall be applied to the service of the people
of Queensland, and embarked in the general task
of developing the wealth of the great State.
And, further, by the system of scholarships
THE HIGHER EDUCATION.—BOYS' GRAMMAR SCHOOL, BRISBANE.
It was in this school that the late J. T. Byrnes received his education, free, on the way to the
Melbourne University.
which was described in the previous article, a lad
may put his whole energy and all the qualities of
his brain into the spheres of pure learning, or
pure science, so that the noble regions of thought
will not be unexplored by the Queenslanders of
the future ; and they may yet make their mark in
those spheres of abstract speculation and scholar-
ship which have been so useful to the progress of
the world and the development of civilisation.
And, in connection with this, the youth of a new
nation, in a new territory, may be expected to
bring to their studies a new point of view of value
to scholarship.
The Oxfordshire farm laborer, with thoughts
of bettering his position by emigration to Queens-
land, might well take a deeper interest in the
architectural beauties of the old halls of Oxford
University when he realises that a child of his
may one day be on the rolls of its classic colleges
—the equal of the sons of the proudest aristocracy
of England and of the wealthiest merchants of the
world. Such an aspiration would be regarded as
the wildest Utopian dream so long as he remained
on the soil of England—an aspiration hopelessly
incapable of realisation. It would be easier for a
camel to get through the eye of a needle than for
an English farm laborer’s son to get a scholarship
in Oxford University. But the moment that
farm laborer changes the older Britain for the
greater Britain of the South Pacific—the moment
he lands, with his family, on Queensland’s shores
—from that moment the outlook of his children
is changed. Oxford University, which appeared
so far when he was under its shadow, comes
nearer to him in the knowledge that if his
children have the necessary talent, Oxford Uni-
versity is open to them without the cost of one
sixpence to the parents for education. This is a
supposititious case ; but such cases are not outside
the region of probability ; and this may be
taken as a description of the marvellous oppor-
tunities which the Queensland democratic system
throws open to the sons of the poor.
Australians have forged their way to the front
in the Old World in almost every sphere of learn-
ing, art, and material enterprise. As scholars, in-
ventors, singers, virtuosi, and especially as ath-
letes, they have written their names in high
places. The brothers Murray have shown how
native-born Australians can succeed ; and the
fame of Gilbert Murray, as a Greek scholar, pro-
fessor, and translator of classic dramatists, is
world-wide to-day ; while his brother, Hubert
Murray, as Governor of Papua, is carrying on the
work of colonisation of a rich territory in seas
which also wash Queensland’s coral reefs.
Louis Brennan, inventor of the dirigible tor-
pedo and the monorail-gyroscope railway ; Had-
don Chambers, the~ playwright; Bertram Mac-
kennal, John Longstaff, Percy Spence, George
Lambert, sculptors and painters; Melba,'Elor-
ence Schmidt, Percy Grainger, Johann Kruse,
Moore, Amy Castles, Ada Crossley, singers,
composers, and virtuosi—all these have shown
that the climate and environment of Aus-
tralia have been favorable to the develop-
ment of the creative and artistic side of
our natural genius, while pure scholarship and
inventive talent have also their representatives.
GERMINATING HOUSE AND RUBBER SEEDLINGS, KAMERUNGA STATE
NURSERY, CARINS, N.Q.
Photo, by Mobsby.
The names enumerated here are merely those who
have sought fame and fortune abroad, and who
are perhaps better known in London than in their
own country. These examples will show the
material which the educational authorities in
Queensland have to work upon. This is the
class of brain which is being developed in
the public schools and grammar schools
of Queensland to-day. Queenslanders are not
mere materialists in their views of educa-
tion ; but by the system in force in the Northern
State, if a lad has in him the qualities of a Louis
Brennan, they will be developed; if he has the
fine brain for scholarship of Gilbert Murray, lie
will have a chance of having it developed and
applied to its fittest tasks : and if, on the contrary,
he is to be a blacksmith, he will have a chance of
being an intelligent blacksmith ; or farmer,
printer, or laborer, even, with the foundation of
future progress and future success planted in the
very fibre of his being.
The ordinary scholastic training has already
been described, with a general outline of the
BAMBOO AT ENTRANCE GATES OF KAMERUNGA STATE NURSERY, CAIRNS, N.Q.
Photo, by Mobsby.
scheme of the Department from the bush school
to Oxford University. A few words may be said
here upon the other avenues which are open for
the improvement of the mind of the young
Queenslander. Every family, of course, does not
produce a potential Rhodes scholar or a bursary
winner. The Department provides for continuing
the education of those “ children who leave our
schools at an early age to become bread-winners.”
The objects of these continuation-classes are set
out as—
(1) To enable pupils who have left day schools
before they have been educated up to the
standard of the Acts from 1875 to 1900 to
continue their education.
(2) To assist persons to obtain instruction in
special subjects relating to their employment.
(3) To prepare students for the Technical
Colleges.
The scheme of these continuation classes is an
excellent one. There will be a curriculum suited
to the locality in which the school is established.
Eor example, in the report of the Secretary for
Public Instruction (Hon. Mr. Barlow) for 1907. it is
shown that the work will be distributed as follows.
In addition to the ordinary elementary subjects,
special subjects will be added :
(a) In a commercial centre—
Bookkeeping, typewriting and business
methods.
(b) In agricultural centres :
EAST BRISBANE STATE SCHOOL.
Principles of agriculture, milk and cream
testing, farm accounts.
(c) In mineral areas :
Geology and mineral prospecting.
And, pari passu with this further development
of primary education on useful lines, the teachers
who are the officers of this great system are
themselves being taught. Sixty Queensland
teachers voluntarity attended a course at
the Gatton State Agricultural College during
their vacations in 1907. At the close of
this session, examinations were held in milk
and cream testing, at which 30 teachers sat,
every one of whom gained certificates. The
report tell us—“ Several of those teachers who are
stationed in dairying districts have taken milk
and cream testing as one of the branches of Nature
Study to be taught in their schools. The Depart-
ment found half of the cost of the apparatus.”
Here is an exemplification of Carlyle’s doctrine
of “thorough.” To show the class of teachers
developed by this system, and the influence
which they exert upon the localities in which
they labor, I am tempted to quote once more from
Mr. Barlow’s report. A departmental inspector,
reporting upon the school presided over by one of
the teachers who attended the session at the
Agricultural College, said :
“ Apart from his school duties, Mr. is an
enthusiast in poultry-rearing and in the cultiva-
tion of fodder grasses —the type of man desirable
is an agricultural district. He had the privilege
of visiting the Gatton College with other teachers,
and the knowledge and experience he gained
there is availed of by surrounding farmers in the
locality. He brought fowls back with him, or
sent for them after his return to his school duties.
He has nine different varieties of grasses growing
in his school garden, which his pupils are conver-
sant with and know their butter-producing quali-
ties. The children occasionally take tufts of these
grasses to their farm homes for their fathers to
plant. Hence his visit to Gatton has been of
exceeding value to his district.” Here we have
the doctrine of efficiency carried into a practical
working scheme.
The idea of these instructional sessions for
teachers is to be continued. Last year a session
was held at the Kamerunga State (Tropical)
Nursery' in the North, near Cairns, at which
lectures were delivered cn “ the practical culture
of tropical economic products, together with de-
monstrations in harvesting and preparing pro-
ducts for market, in tapping and collecting rubber,
in setting seed, potting, planting, pruning, graft-
ing, budding, etc.”
Most countries have paid great attention to the
question of Technical Education. The great in-
stitution at Birmingham, England, and that
at Charlottenburg, Berlin, are generally taken
as the highest type of technical college; but
almost every one of the great municipalities of
Britain has its own college, and the Sydney and
Melbourne Technical Colleges are models of their
kind. The 19 technical colleges of Queensland
are organised and subsidised by the State; but
private aid is accepted and willingly given, as in
respect, even, of primary education, the people
themselves, in remote districts, are approached to
furnish their quota to the first cost, and invari-
ably respond with enthusiasm. So, in regard
to technical education, public sympathy is
enlisted, and every appeal has been cheerfully
responded to. Some idea of the kind of work
done in these colleges will be gleaned by a
perusal of the syllabus of subjects, which includes
art, commercial trades, mathematics, physics,
chemistry, and metallurgy, electricity, geology,
mineralogy, and mining, mechanical engineering,
agriculture, health and sanitary science, and
domestic science and art. These technical schools
are open to the humblest immigrants’ children—
boys and girls—for a trifling fee.
One side of Queensland school life must not be
passed over here, as it means so much for national
profit and national pride—I allude to the school
cadet system. Here we have the nucleus of a
citizen soldiery, trained to arms from earliest
youth, strengthened in body, virile with the
confidence which capacity to handle a gun gives—
these are the future defenders of their homes from
possible invasion. There are already over 5000
cadets enrolled and under training in the different
districts of Queensland. The latest arm of the
cadet service will probably be the most popular one
in a country in which almost everyone has a horse
and can ride like a stockman—viz., the mounted
cadets. These “are formed of youths between
the ages of 14 and 19 years, and it is intended to
extend the system in the farming districts,” says
Mr. Barlow’s report. “The youths provide their
own horses and saddlery; but uniforms, arms,
accoutrements, and ammunition are provided on
the same system as with senior cadet corps.”
This cadet corps is officered by school-teachers,
and instructional schools are held in certain
centres, and camps of instruction for officers and
cadets during the midsummer vacation. Senior
and mounted cadets are fully uniformed and
equipped, instructed in discipline, and trained to
drill and march. Regular visits of efficient drill
instructors from the Commonwealth military
forces are made. Rifle shooting goes on regularly,
and proper rifles for practice are being obtained—
£3oo in prizes being given for rifle shooting among
the cadets ; while miniature rifle ranges are being
erected in school grounds.
It is well to note that special heed is given in
the schools to the study of English language and
literature, while music and drawing are taught in
elementary schools. Thus the spark of artistic
genius which may lie in embryo—whether applied
to form, color or sound—may be struck, and a
career assured from the earliest dawn of the pupil
stage. In the girls’ schools housewifery is taught.
And with all the practical work, the patriotic
idea of devotion to country and nationality is
sedulously cultivated.
This is the system of education which is adopted
in Queensland. It is dealt with here somewhat at
length, because these articles are intended for
readers outside the State of Queensland and beyond
the Commonwealth, and it appears to the writer
that any Old World emigrant, or anyone contem-
plating emigration, before risking the (for him)
momentous step of self-expatriation, would take
the utmost pains to inquire not only as to his
own prospects of substantial worldly advance-
ment, but as to the chances of the intellectual
advancement of his children. These may
reassure themselves. There is no finer or more
co-ordinate educational system in the world, nor
one which pays more attention to the physical
hygiene and mental culture of the children of the
State than does the system of which Queensland
has so much reason to be proud,


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £lB 13s. to £3l 10g
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRISI, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melrournk A tents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial f|)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,406,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hor.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
j}ank llorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner »f George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 72,500 0 0
£731,601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ==
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout tho World
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.^
$
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nST.S.ATV.
Co.,£td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW.\IAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham & Co,,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention, and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Golds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping.
N ord Deutscher L/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing- Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of ||em Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up Jt2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504.097
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
aam^m^ , tmmmmaaaiimmm C°. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mkeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gil)lis, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
f New Steamer. ‘Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 179.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable wit '‘
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hierheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., A stents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
/ill
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
June 11.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
July 7.
MEDIC, AFRIO, and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FAKES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Panwhlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Com,pant). Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makatnbo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
y» -»
CRUISES. €
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHSLP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department: offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending- settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being:
(«) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(6) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
( d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on sountry lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
-3
George: hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
SMOKE
E.F.L.
BRIAR
PIPES.
Are best London
made.
From 2/6 each.
All Shapes.
Write for Illus-
trated Catalogue.
E. F. LIND 8 CO., 398 George St., Sydney.
Banking:.
Bank of [jeui South (Bales.
Estaulisiikd 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1.650,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. ~ 2,500,000 0 0
£6,650,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. 0. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Auditors • J William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
‘ I Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agents and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies. and Interest on Debentures ; issues Letters of
Credit and Circular Notes negotiable throughout the
world; undertakes the Agency of other Banks; and
conducts all customary Banking- business.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. ..£1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. 1,610,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,810,000
London Office: 4 Tlireadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
■CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PtRTE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALPTON (W.A.)
S.S. Gran tala, June 18 (to-
- Melbourne only).
S.S. Yong-ala, July 3.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Claims.
S.S. Marloo, June 1?_
S.S. Wollowra, June IS*.
S.S. Grantala, June 26.
Jiest timl Cheapest Itoute to Gol.<lliet.tt.%.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies om aM
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL St CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION LINE,
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles of the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing, the new twin-screw steamer, “ATUA,”
June 22, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCK-
LAND, transhipping at latter port for Sydney,
thence every 28 days ;
or the new twin-screw steamer, “ TOFUA,” leaving-
Auckland on June 22 for TONGA, SAMOA and)
FIJI to Sydney, every 28 days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTO,” July 6„
thence every four weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from the latter port to Wellington per-
“MANAPOURI,” allowing a stay of 20 days in Tahiti,
arriving at Wellington, September 2 ;
or per “ MANAPOURI,” leaving Wellington, July T,
thence every five weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,,
returning from TAHITI to Auckland per “ HAUROTQ,”
allowing a stay at TAHITI of 28 days, arriving at,
Auckland August 26.
For further information
and descriptive booklet
apply—
to the various offices
in Australasia of
the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED, 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
♦
Grand Excursion to Banff,
Canadian RocKies.
INCLUDING HOTEL
a-vV EXPENSES. dLViV/
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPAMY OF M.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.
5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For* Condon and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,400 Tons. T. Priske, Commander..
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 10th June
, „ „ SYDNEY - - 16th June
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 19th June
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - 24th June
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth)
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess-carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL d . i £49 10s - £l3 13s - £iS 15s - 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “DORSET.” For further information, illustrated
hooks, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Br'sbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & ( 0., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS* DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds..
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.


All Athletes
Use
BOSISTO’S
» PARROT
BRAND **
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
rf. '->5 . v
jya*'
ss^
im
>
■
a
' :v,
.
<'>V-.. c
!#are®
\
/
.< :
ti
*
*. ■
*
:
:. ■'
: " •: •
fe®
>"‘s
m
*8
Bosisto's “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
• JThe Oldest Inhabitant :
r men (B. 27/5/'O9). “Jumbo’’Armstrong', who will
be 71?y*ears of age on September 2, though the father of the
t practising Bar of N.S. Wy by reason of his seniority, is not
an Australian bamster. He came from Lincoln’s Inn, in
Bullapolis, where he was admitted in 1864, and struck
. Sydneyjin 1883. He married a sister of the late Justice
Innes ; bonce he is a grandson-in-law of the historic Mrs.
S Reiby. Justice Rogers is an Australian, admitted in
,1864. So are Pilcher, Barton, O’Connor, M. H. Stephen,
\VV. J. Poster, G. B. Simpson, Pring, Street, Higgins,
1 Isaacs, and 0. B. Stephen. The Federal High Court is
( composed entirely of Australian barristers ; the N.S.W.
fState Court of (including Barley) four foreigners and
ithree Australians.
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 *»r /0/-
I Black, White,
' Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.] [5
ipritchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Nett.
RECITER
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
a a
Written, Illustrated, and Printed in Australia.
Published at a cheap rate to enable the
multitude to buy them.
Three Yean
Thunderbolt
m
And other equally good books to follow.
M.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
AND Att BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
7A, '/-
Surprising
*~A Adventures I
l /rt Bridget !.
V'.S»temy:j
> ■ I
7?vs k.s£*p(ft,
SMOKE
.1
<2T
REFEREE
TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP your money at home .
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
Get Prepared for the Winter.
Have Better Light with a R_educ§<i
Carbide Bill by using our Burners..
We have about 30 different designs
to select from.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Sample Dozen of Assorted Makes, post free 10/-
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Wonderful Australian Invention
THE ADVENT OF THE
Falkiner-801l Patent Electric
Sheep Shearing Machine
WILL REVOLUTIONISE SHEEP SHEARING.
ELECTRIC POWER, the world over, has supplanted OLDER
METHODS. Its application for sheep shearing has been brought about
by the Falkiner-801l Co., in an INGENIOUS yet SIMPLE manner.
Their machines must commend themselves to all, because: —
1. They can be erected EASILY and ANYWHERE without the expense of a
special shed, or any alteration to existing shed.
2. They do not require one-half the power per stand of any other known
machines.
3. They run SMOOTHLY, EVENLY, and quietly.
4. They save time, money, and annoyance.
5. In construction and detail they are the acme of perfection, and only the
highest grade material is used.
6. The lightness of the whole stand and the marvellous simplicity and effective-
ness of the pattern universal JOINT defies competition.
7. ALL EXPERTS who have seen the FALKINER-BOLL MACHINES
PLUMP for them. The thing is to see them, and then you will use them
8. THE FALKINER-BOLL POWER GRINDER ALUMINIUM DISCS
eclipse all others, for being driven by ELECTRICITY there is no
variation of speed and complete absence of vibration.
Please write for Catalogues and full particulars to
The Falkiner-801l Patent Electric Sheep Shearing
Machine Co., Lincoln's Inn Chambers, 175 William St., Melbourne.
Telegraphic Address — 44 Falkiner-8011/' Melbourne. Code Word — 44 Triumphant."
rffeS
SHEEP SHEARING
made EASY,
EFFECTIVE, and
ECONOMICAL.


Dramatic.
WANTED DRAMATIC ARTISTS to
support WALTER BENTLEY on a
Queensland Tour, commencing August.
All Particulars by Letter to
BENTLEY, 13 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager..: J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening at 7.45 sharp.
THE J. 0. WILLIAMSON
GRAND ANNUAL CARNIVAL ATTRACTION.
JACK AND JILL
OUTSHINES ALL ITS PREDECESSORS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
I*HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATTNEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2,30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s'6d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, Mevnell & Gunn Season.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
GRAND REVIVAL of the World’s Most Popular Play,
THE FATAL WEDDING,
A GREATER SUCCESS THAN EVER.
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS
supported by a Specially Selected Company,
and the famous TIN CAN BAND.
Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at S; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & od. . Popular Prices. 6d, 15,.1s 6d, & 2s.
|QLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
lI E AL ICL SKATIN G.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY—IO to 12 a.nv., 3to 5 p.m.,
and 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; CHILDREN, Morning and Afternoon
onlv, Is. SKATE HIRE, 6d.
SATURDAY MORNING —Children, Admission 6d.
THE GLAOIARIUM, George St., opp. Railway Station.
’Phone 492, Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, Prince of Jugglers.
G. W. HUNTER and MDLLE. DESIREE.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Quaint Comedians and Dancers.
FLORENCE and LILLIAN, Artistic Musical Experts.
DALE and O’MALLEY, Cross Talk Comedians.
MISS CISSIE CURLETTE, Mimic and Quaint Vocalist.
MR. JAY RYAN, Baritone.
GRAHAM AND DENT, Popular Comedians.
PRICES—3s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH METSTERS.
Mr. CULL PITT, a Droll Deceptionist, assisted by
Mdll'e ADELE, in a Pot-pourri of Tricks, Talk, etc.
THE SISTERS SPRIGHTLY, Comedienne Dancers.
R. H. DOUGLASS, Monologue Entertainer.
TOM WOOTTWELL, Comedian.
THE LAURELS, Ping Pong Table Act.
Plan at Allan’s. £BT PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
■pHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THE MOST IMPORTANT DRAMATIC EVENT
OF THE YEAR.
MEYNELL & GUNN’S NEW ENGLISH COMPANY
IN
THE HYPOCRITES.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. . Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 12,
The Romantic Musical Play,
THE KING OE CADONIA,
BY A NEW COMPANY OF EXCEPTIONAL
EXCELLENCE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING OF
MR. ROY REDGRAVE,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation,
THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
A STIRRING STORY OF DETECTIVE LIFE.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan s.
Athen/eum hall, Melbourne.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. EDWARD BRANSCOMBE’S
NEW ENGLISH COSTUME CONCERT COMPANY,
The Scarlet Troubadours.
Laughter and Jollitv. High-Class Frivolity.
POPULAR PRICES : Reserved, 3s. ; Balcony, 2s. 6d. ;
Admission, 2s. and Is. Early Doors, 6d. extra.
Box Plans at Glen’s. Day Sales Glen’s & Ronalds’ Central.
Complete Change of Programme Every Saturday.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT.
Amusements.
| C E SKATING,
Melbourne GLACIARIUM,
EVERY
AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WESi’S PICTURES THE
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST'S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
'SUFFER
WITH I
CORNS AND BUNIONS
The MAGIC CORN RUBBER
Nothing is so painful as a Corn or Bunion, or so easily re-
moved If done the right way. Our Antiseptic Corn
and Bunion Remover removes the corn or callous instantly.
You do not have to pare or cut the corn, just rub it gently
with the Remover ancj all hardness, callousness and the
soreness is taken away. Does not make the corn sore.
No pain, no danger from cutting, No nasty
stuff to put on for a week. Just a simple, scientific
and antiseptic instrument that will last a family for
years. Removes corn in less than a minute.
Posted to Any Address on receipt of One Shilling postal .note
or Stamps of any State. Try one, and tell your friends.
IKE UNION M. & A. CO., 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne*
hnHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
I Series.':,lV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
€J The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
6
iStytl&m'
* CRACKAJACK
(JUNIOR)
Built to Beat the Band
Cfl The Reeds are made
of Be I Metal, and
are Tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth ° r s ans
£*F~ MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds . .
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds . . . 1/6 Crackajack Cadat, 20 Reeds .. .
SOLD EVERYWHERE
• H-
. V-
. 6d.
i Sole Agents
ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
"A CLOSE SHAVE!”
No matter HOW stubborn your beard, the PLUNPS
silver steel blade glides over the surface .of your skin
easily and quickly. Give .the PLUM a trial —you’ll
admit it’s the finest razor ever made. We guarantee
and keep it in order two years free of charge.
Price 10/6,
Post Free.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AMEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
ESTABPI7SO,
A
English
Prize Awards.- London 1851, Paris 1889,
London IBGZ. NlelbournelBBB, Kimberley 1892
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
%
RHAMS
D JN
ROTHE
m
Watch es
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
ffvj'wr "Z**
A
(&J& <V«y I
£S%
foorri
**o
r
t
t.
It is quite impossible in this advertisement to (rive more than a brief
outline of the contents of this most useful book, of which we are selling:
hundreds every day. it contains 151 pages of information upon every
home requisite, and 1100 recipes. Personal appearance equally with matters
of domestic management are prescribed for. There is not a matter for enquiry
from the laundry to the drawing room on which a lady, on turning to these pages,
will fail to find some valuable recommendation. “ Everything a Lady Should Know ”
should be in every woman’s possession. It is indispensable. The following are some Of the subjects des It
with, and will be sufficient to show the value of this splendid book
HOUSEHOLD MATTERS & MANAGEMENT.—Uses of Ammonia—Cleanses the skin, relieves headache,
stings, restores colours, brightens carpets, cleans windows, etc.; Acetic Acid Vinegar; to clean baluster
rails, etc. BEVERAGES & CANDlES.—Recipes for every conceivable drink known ; cordials, sherbet, soda
beer, ginger beer, lemonade, etc.; chocolates, caramels, toffees, jujubes, bonbons. Vanilla icecream, etc.
SICK ROOM HINTS—COOKERY FOR THE SICK. —Apple water, barley cream and water, a quick wav te
make beef tea, broths, gruels (all kinds) jellies, hot lemonade, toast, sandwiches, custards- DISEASES, ETC-*
Accidents and emergencies, poisons, cures for asthma, bee stings, bites, boils, sprains, fractures, bruise*
and burns, bunions, chapped hands, chilblains, choking, cinders in eye, colds, diarrhoea, drowning, earache.
and simple remedies and hints. Jams, marmalades, jellies, pickles and preserves of every kind, salads,
sauces, spiced fruits—a chapter to each of these. THE LANNDRY.—To clean silks, kids, belts, oashmero,
frocks, fruit stains, copper, lace, curtains, rusty flat irons, laundry stains, mackintoshes, setting colours, keep
flannels from shrinking, restore old crape, and deals with stockings, gloves, linen, woollens, etc: THE
TOILET.—DeaIs with freckles, baldness, blackheads, brilliantines, dandruff, beautifying, kerosene for hair,
keep hair in curl, shampoo, to whiten and soften hands and arms, perspiration, eyebrows, etc. MISCEL-
LANEOUS. —Hundreds of hints and wrinkles for the home. Stains, uses of borax, to seal bottles, clean
brass, etc., keep butter cool, birds, insects, grease spots, cracks, leakages, china stains, cleaning knives,
crockery, decanters, frames, hats, feathers, hair brushes, hearths, trays, smoke stains, etc., disinfectants,
make fabrics fire-proof, glues, mending kettles, bowls, sewing machines, waterpots, umbrellas, etc.;, stop
rattling windows, prevent wick smoking, milk from souring, smells, etc.; vermin, cool and heat ovens, soaps,
sewing hints, what a lemon will do, papering and whitewashing, flies, making pastes, sticking labels on
bottles, tins, etc.; destroying vermin, rats, white ants, etc.; to flush sinks, to cool water without ice, testing
and purifying milk and water, etc., etc., and scores of other priceless wrinkles, hints, prescriptions, eU», not
contained in any other book, and tbe
Price is only 1s - 3d. post free anywhere .
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter Street, Sydney.
“Two Up” writes from the gaol where he
is serving his sentence for “heading ’em ” :
In one way the highly moral Anti-Gambling N. S.
Wales Government cheerfully encourages gambling : also,
incidentally, it encourages the big' land-holder to open
his mouth a great distance. When the Government buys
an estate, or otherwise makes it available for subdivision,
it calls on every applicant to put up a deposit equal to 5
per cent, of the purchase money ; but the one deposit
holds good for an endless number of applications. For
instance, the Peel River estate has just been cut
up into 213 big and 19 “town” farms. Each of
the big farms is valued (with improvements)
. at about £2000; and if a man puts in 5 per cent, of the
valuation of the highest-priced farm, he is entitled under
cover of that to apply for the whole 232. .So five men
who in the end can only get five farms may fire in 1160
applications. Ail that each man has to do is lo number
the blocks in the order in which he prefers them. If a
man doesn’t know that and drops in his application for
only one block, the chances are that he will be bumped
out in the subsequent gamble or “ballot” by men who
have been “ fly ” enough to collar the whole lot of chances
for the price of one. Then, also, when a man comes
along and wants to rent or buy, the big'landlord points to
the 1160 applications (which the five men have poured in),
and he uses the tremendous figures to terrify the hungry
hunter and squeeze out another pound an acre.
‘ ‘ Rypo ” : He the transcontinental straight
line from Oodnadatta to Pine Creek via the
Macdonnell Ranges. Here is another reason why
it should be built. Allan A. Davidson, leader of
“ The Central Australian Exploration Syndicate,
Ltd.,” in his journal (published in Adelaide
by C. E. Bristow, Government Printer, 1905)
writes :
Throughout the lower Northern Territory there is an
enormous area of metalliferous rocks, extending through-
out the Macdonnell, Burt, Trener, and the ranges south
of the western end of the Macdonnell, and also in the
vicinity of, and to the north and north-east of Anna
Reservoir country and the Buxton Range. . . . The
country is there and the gold is there, and it remains
for others to improve on the prospects obtained. . . .
The one essential feature necessary for the development
of the interior, and the opening of payable goldfields is
cheaper communication. This can only be accomplished
by continuing the transcontinental railway across the
continent. An extension from Oodnadatta to the Mac-
donnell Ranges and the Arltunga goldfield would very
materially assist in opening the interior and making
other portions more accessible. The possibilities this
country contains certainly warrant a great endeavor (even
at a sacrifice for a time) being made to create a central
mining population. . . . No effort or expenditure should
deter those in authority from constructing a line.
“ Gwy ” —his footmark:—
The Australian importing crowd may find some justifi-
cation for its lack of patriotism in a shocking Scottish
example. At Kinlochleven, in Argyllshire, the British
Aluminium Company and the Locfi Leven Water and
Electric Power Co. have just constructed a pipe track and
dam works, described by experts as the most marvellous
piece of engineering accomplished in any country for
years. The pipes used are being supplied by a German
firm, and are brought from Hamburg direct by steamer.
No British firm was prepared to comply with the condi-
tions of manufacture imposed, and some idea of the im-
portance of the order thus lost to Bull may be gained
from the fact that the total weight of pipes used will
exceed 10,000 tons, and the steamer carrying them will
have to make over 20 trips' to complete the order. The
pipes are not connected in the usual way by flanges, but
are joined by bolts, and workmen are sent from Germany
to place them in positiop. Thus, in Scotland—the native
heath of engineering, so to speak—the manufacturer,
shipowner, seaman, and all who depend on them, are
done out of a job for the sake of Hans and Karl and
Cheapness. Don’t forget Cheapness ; that is the god of
the Foreign trader. Meanwhile, the local Jingo crowd
crowd is frothing at the mouth at the mention of
German}'.
“ L.B. J.” speaks in a firm tone of ink :
Struck a weird function the other day. Scene, a
country railway station in the Wild West. Occasion, the
passing through of a retiring State Governor on his way
back to home and mother. The station was suitably
decorated with diminutive Union Jacks, some of them
nearly as large as a sassiety lady’s pocket-handkerchief.
The cockiesfor miles round had donned theirbest and most
hideous garb, and mustered in force. As the train drew up
at the platform, the local school children (in nice, clean
faces) marshalled by a perspiring pedagogue, rendered
“Gor’Save”in A flat. At the conclusion of this per-
formanbe the anachronism made the kiddies a little
speech, the purport of which was : “ Be virtuous and you
will be happy, and never, never forget the poor old Ma
land.” He then disbursed two half-crowns, per private
secretary, for the purchase of confectionery of sorts, and
the infants cheered with enthusiasm. Next came the
cookies’ turn, and the Cow-worshippers fell over each
other’s big freshl.v-greased boots in a frantic rush to grasp
the gubernatorial flipper. One hairy individual insisted
upon addressing the personage as “Your Majesty.” I
gather by inference that he was endeavoring to
recall to his Ex.’s memory the fact that they
had already met at some agricultural disturb-
ance about five years earlier. Another local cele-
brity, alluding to the worthy K.C.M.G. (or what-.vou-
may-ca!l-it) as “my Lordship,” spoke fervently, but inco-
herently, concerning “Dreadnoughts.” The train
steamed out of the station with the patriot still clinging
to the handl; of the State car, shouting offers of battle-
ships which would alone constitute a five-power stand’ard.
He was yanked from his parlour position by a much-
harassed stationmaster, and, baulked of his prey, made a
bee-line for the pub, where he wept battleships into his
beer till a late hour of the night.
From The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabi-
tant :
A property in Pitt-street, Sydney, at the rear of the
Royal Exchange Buildings, will be brought under the
hammer on June 11, by order of the Permanent Trustee
Company of N. S. Wales,(Limited, as “Trustees of the
David Ramsay Settlement,” David-Ramsay was’ an old-
time medico and merchant, who married a daughter of
Simeon Lord, of Macquarie-place, a colonist of the seven-
teen nineties, who gave his daughter as a dowry 600 acres,
known variously as Dobroyd and Ramsay’s Bush. The
best part is now known as Habei field: Lord had a lease
of an acre and a quarter in (vhat is now known as Mac-
quarie-place, the lot running back to the Tank Stream.
Colonel Foveaux, in the time of the Bligh rebellion,
converted the lease into a freehold and Macquarie,
confirmed the act. Lord built a fine house,
only recently demolished, in which many of the
preliminary meetings attendant on the establishment
of the Bank of New South Wales were held. By the long
deed of coincidence, the bank now'oivns the site. Simeon
Lord was one of four magistrates appointed by Mac-
quarie soon after his arrival, and dm-of those Whom he
invited to dinner, much to the scandal of the Pure
’Merinos, It is said that it was upon the advice of Colonel
Foveaux that Macquarie invited some of the emancipists
to Government House and made them magistrates.
When the Governor had done so, the Colonel is said to
have boasted that he had “put a blister on Macquarie
which the Governor would not easily get rid of.”
The Old Soldier on Armenians, Asi-
atics, persecutions, etc.
Re “ Fitzwilliam’s” unmassacred Armenian (B. 13/5/’O9).
I don’t wonder thathemet him outside his(the Armenian’s)
native land. If you want to find Armenians in any num-
bers you must look for them, not in what is called
Armenia On the maps of Asiatic Turkey, but in the big
trading towns of the world—in Paris, London, New York,
Calcutta, Bombay, where they are noted as by far the
sharpest practitioners in finance. Most of the people of the
alleged Armenia are Mohammedan Kurds, and the
Christian villages are generally in out-of-the-way places
among the mountains. The English and American mis-
sionaries are a disturbing element. Failing to convert
the Mohammedans, they hal'd turned their attention to
the\Christians, have started schools, and, being enthusi-
Protestants, have,set up a “Reformed Armenian
Churph.” Their converts all go back to the old
comrhunion when they leave’ school and go out into
the world. They never stay at home, but gradu-
ally make their way to some place where the excellent
European education that has been given them by the
missionaries will have a money value. It is curious
to see how similar are the results of European
oh Asiatics. The Armenian uses his to
start an Armenian Revolution' which has its head-
:quarters in Paris, just as the European-educated
'East Indian starts an Indian revolution and fixes
its headquarters in a London suburb. The Russian
j'lovernment has been lamenting in sackcloth and
ashes ever since it annexed the district of Kars with
v iew Armenians, who bring it within the “ sphere Of
activity ”of the Revolution. Russia used to be the cham-
pion of the Turkish Christians. It isn’t so strong- on this
point now. If the Turk, with all his faults, had been
worth his salt as a religious persecutor, he would not
have had any Christians now to persecute. He would
not have needed 400 odd years to exterminate every
Christian in the country. The Spaniards and the French
can do such things, apparently without much
trouble. It took less than 100 years to expel
or convert the whole of the Moors and Jews
in Spain. In the middle of the 17th century one-
third of France was Huguenot; at the beginning of the
18th the Huguenots were of no consequence, and to-day
there are not 700,000 of them in the country. It only
took 40 years to turn what is now Belgium from a half
Calvinist country to what it is to-day—the most Ultra-
montane State in Europe. How long did it take to make
Sweden Lutheran, and Scotland Calvinist? It is astonish-
ing how very little Government pressure, when it is
effectively applied, is needed to change people’s re-
ligions. Vigorous, relentless persecution always succeeds,
and if it fails it is simply because it is neither vigorous
nor relentless. The Turk is as inefficient a persecutor as
he is in other capacities.
The Customs officer runs up against a
tough proposition when he backs his wits against
those of Ah Slim, opium-smuggler. The other
day, after the Westralian Customs men had
searched a steamer from deck to keel, and found
not a sign of the drug, they were yarning in the
saloon, when one of them, lifting up a flower pot,
thought it was too heavy for its size. He prodded,
and £lO worth of opium- was found between the
roots of the plant and the bottom of the pot; and
four other pots were likewise unloaded. Lately
at the same port a suspected Chow seemed to be
shuffling along more carefully than usual; and
when his boots were overhauled a “plant” was
found in a rubber vessel between the outer and
the inner soles.
From a recent daily paper leader :
There is a certain section of the London financial press
that, for some time past, has been dominated by the idea
that Australia must go on borrowing or come to a stand-
still. This view is, however, far from accurate. Aus-
tralia generally, and New South Wales in particular,
could absolutely cease borrowing to-morrow, and still
prosper ; but she would suffer in the rate of,her progress.
For five or six years past, it is admitted, Aus-
tralia has borrowed far less than usual; and the
S. M. Herald, or some other daily paper which is
itching for a loan drunk, might mention any pre-
vious five or six years in Australian history which
shows so much progress. There have been five-
year periods which have been simply littered with
loans; but there isn’t - one of the lot that shows
such splendid prosperity and such remarkable
strides ahead as the past five years of very little
borrowing. Moreover, Queensland, the State that
had borrowed least of all to the end in 1903-8,
showed the greatest proportionate improvement
in that time.


From the Old Soldier :
The Bulletin (20/5/’O9) comments on Melbourne ’Var-
sity’s proposal to start a school of “ Military Science,”
and remarks that it will be time to talk of teaching mili-
tary science when Australia has its fighting equipment
complete, and men who know how to use the guns and
things. True; and, more than that, military science is
mostly moonshine outside the technical business of
engineering and gunnery. “Tactics” are just plain
drill, such as every recruit has to learn if he is ever to be
good for anything. There is no mystery at all about it.
It simply teaches you how to handle bodies of men so
that they may fight with most effect and least danger to
themselves; for it is not the soldier’s business to
throw away his life to no purpose. What is called
“Strategy” consists of a few simple rules relat-
ing to the direction of marches, and the choice
of places to be held. In old countries the
“ strategic points ” and “ lines ” have remained the same
since the dawn of history. In Europe, for more than
2000 years, armies have marched along the old Roman
r >ads, and battles have been fought century after century
on nearly the same ground. There isn’t much science
about all that; but what on earth is the use of spending
a lot of cash on teaching a number of Australian business
men of mature age how to manoeuvre the soldiers they
haven’t got in the fashion of European armies? It is
curious how little practical use all this theoretical teach-
ing has proved in the past. The officers of the U.S. army
before the Civil War got an altogether exceptional
theoretical training, but one could count on one’s fingers
those who did well in command, and they were all men
with war experience in Mexico. There was Grant, who
made a name in Mexico, and then took to drink and
was driven out of the army ; there were Stonewall
Jackson, Lee,-Sherman and Sheridan. The theorists
who failed were Pope, Pennington, Fremont and
McClellan. Among the leaders of the French armies of
the Revolution and first empire was a long list of
generals of the first quality, but without the least pre-
tence to theory. They could handle their troops with
unsurpassable skill and win battles, but they were rankers
to a man. They were Hochk, Masse'na, Jourdan,
Auqerkau, Lannes, Lefebvre, and half a dozen more.
They all learned their business in the ranks, where alone
it can be properly learned. Any military body is a
machine whose working has to be learned. To fry
to teach this at a ’varsity is as foolish as it would
he to try to produce the chief engineer of a mailboat by
showing him things through an engine-room skylight.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wavback Book you are bound to read, Is.
LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
( f proven efficacy for chest complaints.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
S«,ld by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
£2OO
GAN YOU
HIT THE
FOR 2 WORDS.
WE DON’T REQUIRE YOU TO SELL GOODS
If you are bright you may win £2OO, which we
intend to give away for correct answers to this
puzzle. If you can supply the two missing
words that the picture represents, write us at
once, enclosing 2d. Stamp, for reply. If you
are right we will at once send you the prize.
If more than one correct answer is received
the £2OO will be divided evenly. This is
worth trying for, as the puzzle is not hard.
Send answer at once, enclosing the 2d. stamp
for reply. Only one replv from a family
allowed. National Publishing Co.,
89 Ash Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sauis Rheumatic,
PSLLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
FOR COUT and
RHEUMATISM
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
ftLAIR'SCOUT and
Rheumatic pills elimi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
therefore PEKFEOTI.Y
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at 1/1% and 2/9.
BLAIR S HAVE SY00& '
THE TEST OF TIME. I
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand IPF“- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World's Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks. — Richardson Ball-Bearing'
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
_for Great Britain and Ireland —Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
“RICHARDSON’*
CHICAGO
"PLASMON is the
BEST part of Nature’s
BEST food—MILK,
and increases the food
value enormousj^”
— Lancet.
DELICIOUS
* COCOA
TENFOLD NUTRIMENT
PLASMON is USED
by the
ROYAL FAMILY.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
&
WlM**’’
COUGHS
OF AX,\r KINDS
are quickly cured by
POWELL'S
BALSAM-ANISEED
Of all Chemists and Stores. Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland—ELLlOTT BROS., SYDNEY & BRISBANE,
'the cough remedy^
WITH THE
yBEST REPUTATION/
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
A
tm*
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore; best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HAMBLRYS Ltd., LONDON. * Bridge Sts., Sydney
#
It acts like a charm !n
DIARRH(EA.
4 Ofc- S>
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA & ■
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative “Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
ls eXoßnsive v usef Medical Men m their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have %ive-n
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the world , in bottles, ls. lid. ; 2 oz., 2s. M. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6<Z. each.
WAR NI N G Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, in 1844, has the 4 ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman's Chlorodyne, Ltd., London, S.E., England.
!
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
E6e LEADING
HOUSE
FOR.
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
Fishing' TacKle &. Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, PISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mcntrored on Inside front ciner of catalogue) to the
value of ,50s. or more, and on ai! parcels of Pishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
OUR
Special
Snap.
1
i/o
4/0
2/0
ASK FOR
M 34 ft
M 34J —
M2o—ft
MUSTAD’S
“KEYBRAND”FISH HOOKS.
lustad's Boat Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong
Nos. 1-2-3 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 (I/O 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
1/- 1/1 1/2 1/6 1/8 1/10 2/2 2/4 2/8 3/- 8/8 per 100.
ftriustad's Best Rustproof Hooks, jin. Longer Shanks, Ringed. XX Btrong -
Nos. 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 0/0 10/0
1/1 1/2 1/6 1/8 1/10 2/2 2/4 2/8 3/-
lustad’s Best Bright Hooks, Kirby Bent, Ringed, XX Strong-
Nos. 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 6/0 8/0 7/0 8/0
0(1. lOd. lid. 1/1 1/3 1/5 1/8 2/-
3/8 per 100.
9/0
2/4 per 100.
Angler’s Guido and Hints on Fishing, Post Froe.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1008 edition, 2s (id posted. Mkiuuf,
England, Od. I low to Gut Rick, Is posted. Du. Lamar-
tink’h Silent Friend, Is (id. Nkd Donnelly's Atit
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
llow to Danck, Is, post. How TO Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is (id each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Ik. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Uk-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Hell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Od posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is Od.
.levs ok Like, 1s (Id. Nigger Stumk Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiihorßaymond, ls;post,ls3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. AJ] Till! Bulletin series. Dr. Carver's Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Reauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. M aria Monk, Is (id. How to
SI are Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science ok Like,
10s (Id. Aus'r. Min khs’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s (id. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Hook ok Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheaas, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ok Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
ok Paris, Is 6d. History ok the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind tub Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases ok Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle ok Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads ok Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmkribe, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post.- How to Play Billiards, ' illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMRRACINO
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By I)r. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Cliromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. H ere are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand c|uestions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s (id. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s (id. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taugiit, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
Ilow to Makk Ur, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, I)
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Ib. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Bush Songs, 1b 3d Dost. Dr. Milford's Mid.
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s (id.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, I*.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Sd.
Secret History Court ok England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingbrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse's Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Js 3d post free. <». W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruitsof Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 Ulus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Od posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
The Famous Remedy for
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fe Consumption
™„i . n r glT g ! ng ? , 01Ce n and uS ne,ther allows a Cough n °r Asthma to become chronic, no? Consump-
bon to Consumpbon is not known where “Coughs” have, on their hrst appearance, been properly treated with this
cure S certain h ° USe S ‘° U dbe wlth out it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
Small Size, 26; Large Sire, 16. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W.
Chemist, Geelong:, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
a HEARNE,
PATERNOSTER’S
wm pills n
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
li-'VW
(Drawn from photo)
“The Champion”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five vears.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Hway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
' Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
500 P FREE a MIc W HINEI E MAKE A STARt BY GIVING AWAY
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of anv charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
t°. £J v . e a . Pract ‘ cal Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
a^ r I e 'u is .- and hom . e circles, using our new and popular
, , , , ... records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deoosit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. Weclaim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5 -year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one oT these
machines to application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that w!
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machine!
;!e O e W;Ue C !l P o n 0 ce e to C th a e PP Catlon - We «« Phonograph entirely Ind"absolutely
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. G.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W,
75he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post FrSS,
The Life, Adventure*
and Confessions of »
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, u-
Strut Stamp for IJltutrated Lift* of Book* and A ovtttm
Madame Panza,
913. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
RHIMAIIITS INDIAN CIGARETTESJ
Difficulty In expectoration. Arthmn.HerroMCon^
S!»VBSSESSa^rffISS , asffi
ETTES. Sold bv all Chemittt


Note
Trade Mark.
ip&
§
i)
K*OTT AOOCPTACLS FO*M 0
WM««U« MMTIN MmoKui M l”
° «V“«« »"• W»MI*WI /
* MMCANM|Vt.V O.MMI V
HABITUAL CONSTI PATIO*
MONEYS, UVEA AMO BOWEUL
0001 K» uur KRITAIN MO COIONIU
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
i; Vv ;:•* .. ! 'ijt . '■
Acts Gently. Acts Pleasantly.
Acts Beneficially.
Acts Truly as a Laxative.
Overcomes Habitual Constipation,
speedily relieves
Biliousness, Indigestion,
and all disorders arising from
Sluggishness of Liver, Bowels & Kidneys.
Sold by all Chemists throughout Australia in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
m
l
m
T L
SEND FOR? _
FREESAMPLEf
Congo is ££ Never-Leak” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully, tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne; Ceorg-e Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Fall Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Australia First.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE holds no urned dust in fee. She claims
no classic age;
Her Past is volumed not in stone, nor
scribed on parchment page ;
No feudal fortress fronts her peace ; nor, through
her written years
Hath flag of friend or foeman waved along her
blue frontiers.
From Neolithic sleep she woke. The dove of
Better Things
Behind the bars of Tyranny already beat its
wings;
The youngest Daughter of the Earth, red tides of
Time had swept
Her sister continents with War and Conquest
while she slept.
The sum of Human Thought was hers ; the har-
vest of the Past
Was ready garnered to her hand and left her free,
at last,
To mill the golden grain of Good and cast the
husks away—
Rich dowered by the centuries, so fell her natal
day.
She knows no High Achievement yet; but in a
Vision grand
The True Australian sometimes dreams his future
Motherland :
Untrammelled by ancestral gyves; from ancient
usage free,
Her sword of patriotic steel, her shield—Demo-
cracy ;
He sees her proud, reliant head uplifted to the
skies,
With Freedom’s star-flash on her hair ; and, barn-
ing in her eyes,
The fire that great Mazzini fed, the fire that Lin-
coln nursed.
And in his secret heart is writ, all times— “ Au-
stralia First.”
What claims on us have older lands? Beyond
our sunlit seas
They hide their rags ’neath. royal silk—tired hags
with histories.
Their ancient courtyards reek with filth, their
walls are splashed with crime ;
They wait, in armed dread, the Sword of All-
Avenging Time.
The high lord, in his motor car, along their ways
goes by;
Where serfs and peasants from the fields look up
with sullen eye ;
The yoke is fastened to the neck, the shackles to
the shin,
Nor shall these helots e’er escape the slough they
travail in.
They hunger ’mid the granaries; they thirst
beside the streams.
Content and Plenty sound to them as echo words
m dreams ;
And they must tread Rebellion’s road, to gain
their high desire,
Through bloody streets and scaffolds lit by
Revolution’s fire.
But here a kinder Custom holds; from Broome to
Tasman snow
She opes her gates of bounty wide, the great, Free
Land we know;
Nor in her trodden ways of Man shall children
crave or thirst,
Nor women hunger while we keep Australia best
—and first.
She shines amon j the lands of Earth with glories
of her own;
Her robes are rich with radiant gems ; with
pearls her neck is strown ;
Rare fabrics drape her throne-room high ; and
native wealth untold
She holdeth in her treasuries, of wine, and wheat
and gold.
The planter of a tropic North, from deep palm
shadow views
A carpet Oriental spread in vivid greens and
blues;
A sun of gold upon a field of azure velvet laid—
When Morning walks, in robes of rose, the Capri-
cornian glade.
The Miner from his hut of bark looks out on hills
of snow
That billow to the border-line away from Omeo
Dark gullies walled by mountains steep, and
Gippsland gorges grim,
Where forest shadows lie at noon, the Picture
make for him.
Tlje Rider on the great grey plains that answer
to the quest
Of restless hearts that roving seek their fortunes
further west;
The stockman and the teamster tall; the hunter
and the tramp,
The farmer, shearer, tradesman, clerk; the men
of town and camp.
One kind Australian mother fills the measure of
their needs;
She clothes them as her climates call, and well
their hunger feeds,
And shall they not, in gratitude, predict the
years to be;
Their Nation of the South proclaim, and her high
destiny ?
And have I not an equal right to sing this Land
of Mine
With him who rolls in trumpet tones his mightv
“ Watch on Rhine ” ?
With him who hymns in any tongue his country’s
pride and praise—
“ God Save the Kaiser,” Czar, or King, or Gallic
“Marseillaise”?
Green, Irish fields my people trod, and thine the
English leas;
Our comrades sprang from Teuton stock, or Greek,
or Genoese—
I care not whence our people came; but this all
times I care:
The land that gives us birth and bread is ours—
Australia fair.
Her destiny is ours to shape, her lands are ours to
hold ;
The plastic clay of nationhood is here to shape
and mould;
And ’spite of toadies, Tory-bred, or foreigners, or
fools,
I’d write “Australia” on the walls, and teach it in
the schools !
The upward beams shall not be carved, nor shall
one stone be set,
In that great Edifice-to-Be, the House-That-Is-
Not-Yet,
Till in the circle of her shores, throughout the
land is sown,
The greater hope that bids us dare to stand or
fall, alone;
Serene, secure, and self-contained, a nation in her
pride,
Indifferent to the quarrels old that shake the
world outside;
For this Ideal should we strive, for this our souls
should thirst—
That forty million freemen yet may hold Australia
first!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The New Leper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DANVERS buttoned his shirt and
pulled on his coat. His friend Pickering,
a ship’s doctor, turned over a two-months’
old magazine, decorated with tumbler'circles, in
silent embarrassment. The sudden blackness of
the Island night had come down, and the only
sound that came was the tap-tapping of the kava-
stone from a native village down the hillside.
Then Danvers spoke : “ It’s not much of a sur-
prise to me. I’ve seen too many of the natives go
the same way. When I had a pretty lively sus-
picion I tried the match test—then I asked you.
Now it’s settled.”
Pickering looked at the red line in his socks.
He wanted to say something, but he hadn’t a
notion what to say, or how to begin. Then it
struck him that they were friends and there was
no need to make speeches. He was also wonder-
ing how he would have taken it if he had been in
the other man’s place.
“When I was camped up the river that time,”
Danvers went on, “I saw the boy who’d been
doing for me bathing. He was raw from the
shoulder. It wasn’t pretty. I had the poor
devil sent to Penrhyn. Perhaps I’ll see him there.”
“ Don’t he a confounded fool,” jerked Pickering.
The thing had shaken him a bit, and his voice was
rough. “We can fix it up and take you back to
Sydney. You’ll have to be—isolated at ”
Danvers kicked a chair out of the road and
walked to the door. The broad banana leaves
showed against the sky as if cut out in black
paper, and the red eye of a fire glowed brightly.
Then he turned to Pickering.
“ I’m not going back to Australia—under-
stand?” J
Pickering did. His eyes went to a photograph
that stood in the circle of light cast by a hurricane
lamp. It was a round girljsh face, with short
curly hair, and big eyes set wide apart. His eyes
often sought it, for he loved her as well as Dan-
vers ; but only he knew this, though the girl
guessed.
“I had a letter from her to-day,” Danvers went
on levelly. “ We’d fixed bn theautumn. v’ know,
and she’s busy with her things. She Isays she’s
working curtains or something by hand ”
“Oh, shut up!” said Pickering, ramming
tobacco into his pipe.
“I’m wondering what’s the best thing to do for
her.” Danvers’ voice had the flat sound of one
who thinks aloud. “I’ve often thought of it the
last few weeks. It’s rather a complicated busi-
ness. The most sensible thing would be to blow
out my brains —it’s quicker and cleaner—but the
little girl’s sort of religious. She’d think I was j
doomed to eternal torment, and it’d cut her up.
You see, she’s put me on a pedestal, as they say. \
Girls do it to us sometimes. Pick, Lord knows
why. If I leave it, and don’t write, she’ll think
I’ve been fooling, an’ she’s very sensitive. She
wouldn’t just howl and get over it in a day or j
two. On the other hand, she might think I was i
sick, and worry herself into a fever.
There was another silence, and Pickering saw !
the one thing he could do for his friend. j
“We’ll be back there in a month,” he said;
shortly. “ I’ll see her and—take any—er —oh ! j
dash it all, what can I tell her?”
. “ Say I pegged out, caught a chill—any lie you
like. I’m,dead—all but the dying part of it.”
“That won’t do. The company ’d notify your
relatives if you’d really been sent for. She’d j
write and find out, and think you’d had to clear j
the course. Then she’d fret all to pieces imagin- j
ing all kinds of things. It’s a rash statement, but
I think I know a bit about girls. Better let her
have the truth.”
“ All right.” Danvers walked to the table and ;
fumbled with a drawer. “ I’m not going to write
anything—there’s nothing I can write. Tell her
it.’ll only be a little while before—you know all 1
that, Pick.” He rammed his hands into his
pockets. “There’s one course to take—the quick
one you and I know—drink an’ the rest of it.
She’s very—er—religious. I’ve often thought there
might be something in it when I’ve heard her on
the go. She believes that if you walk pretty
straight in this world you’re sure of meeting in
the other. I’ll give her way a chance. She’ll
like to know that. Some day she’ll forget an’
marry again.” His eyes met Pickering’s
and shot a message. “I hope she’ll find
some decent chap and be happy. Tell
her that s—later 5 —later on. ... I wonder if she’ll
think of me with horror when she • knows.
I ought to hope so ; it’d cure her quicker. But
Somehow I don’t think she will. She’s all gold—
the little girl. I’ll go to Penrhyn or Ralca-
hanga, and before the referee cries ‘ Time ! ’ for
the last, round, I may be able to give the poor
brutes a shove along. They need something there,
Lord knows.”
He looked at the cheap nickel clock on the
table. “Your time’s up, too, old chap! She
leaves at daylight, and Summers wants to see you
first.”
Pickering stood up. His pipe was out, and his
A.dam’s apple seemed to have climbed against
his epiglottis.
“Thanks!” said Danvers, simply, as he read
what the other would have said. Then he smiled,
with no mirth in his eyes. “Under the circum-
stances, I won’t offer to shake hands.”
“Oh, be damned!” growled Pickering. He
crushed the fingers that had no sensibility in
them between his firm, strong hands. Then he
walked quickly out into the darkness.
B. CECIL DOYLE.


FOR
(olds &
The immediate and continuous success of the unique Peps treatment for
coughs, colds, sore throat, bronchitis, and other throat and chest ailments
is due to the fact that Peps provide, in handy tablet form, a potent
medicine which is breathed direct into the
bronchial tubes and lungs. The dotted lines in
this diagram follow the direction of the air we
breathe, whether through the nostrils (j) or the
mouth (2). Passing over the tongue (3) the
air mingles with the fumes emitted from
the little Peps tablet dissolving on the tongue,
and both are carried through the opening (4) to the throat.
Note that the Peps fumes pass down a separate passage (5) direct
to the lungs, not down the gullet (6) to the stomach, which is the
way all liquid medicines must go. To swallow any medicine into the
lungs is utterly impossible; and no medicine taken into the stomach
can reach the lungs.
Free from all
drowsy drugs,
always pure
and constant in
comp osition,
Peps are of
incalculable
value asasooth-
ing, healing, re-
storing, and
germ - destroy-
ing remedy for
the throat and
chest troubles
so prevalent at
this season.
Sold Everywhere
//6 & j/- per box
y//////m
4ff
v
5;; .•
Gram
m-Mm-mammmm
I
;
“THE 20th CENTURY DISEASE’’
AND ITS STRANGE SYMPTOMS.
Discovery of Antidote for Nervous Asthenia.
THE POPE’S PHYSICIAN CONGRATULATES THE DISCOVERER.
Dr. A. Kuhner, the well-known German nerve specialist,
has just written a remarkable treatise on the subject of
the disease that bids fair to be known as “ the Twentieth
Century disease.”
The extraordinary feature of this rapidly-spreading'
complaint is that it may exist in a man or woman appar-
ently strong and healthy in every other respect. So
subtle, indeed, is this disease in its earlier stages that the
victim himself may be actually unconscious of it. Unfor-
tunately, the same cannot be said of its distressing later
stages of development.
Beginning with the apparently trivial symptomatic
condition of “sensitiveness” or “nervousness” (or
“ touchiness,” as the victim’s candid friends may describe
it), the disease may, if neglected or encouraged in its
development, progress through some of the following
serious stages:—
Sensitiveness
Restlessness | Irritahility
Melancholia | Nervousness | Pessimism
Hysteria I Fearfulness j Inaptitude for j Dizziness
1 Steady Work |
Memory j ’ Weak j Lack of Mental
Weakness | Will Power | Clarity
Brain Fag | Sense of Failing Powers
Mental Derangement
The ever-increasing number of suicides in which “ Death
from unknown causes ” is the common but enigmatical
verdict, is proof of the diabolically stealthy progress of
this disease.
DR. KUHNER’S TREATISE.
Happily, preventive medical skill is much more up-to-
date than it was even so recently as when influenza first
raged as an epidemic. To-day medical science has
“scotched,” if it has not entirely killed, influenza,
though only after it had carried off tens of thousands to
too early graves. And, to-day, medical skill has already
found its antidote for “Nervous Asthenia,” or “Neuras-
thenia.” Dr. Kuhner generously pays tribute in his
treatise to its discovery by a professional confrere, a Dr.
Karl Hartmann, whose discovery bears the appropriate
name of “Antineurasthin.”
The most extraordinary testimony as to the value of
the discovery is already being published in the medical
and public press.
His Holiness the Pope’s Physician-in-Ordinary, Dr.
Giuseppe Lapponi, of Rome, writes:—
“I made trials in my private practice of ‘Antineu-
rasthin,’ and shall prescribe it henceforward, as it is an
admirable agent for toning and strengthening the nervous
system. I take the liberty of congratulating you on
your discovery.”
Similar unqualified approval of Dr. Hartmann’s “ Anti-
neurasthin ” has been received from other very high
quarters, as may be seen in Dr. Kuhner’s medical treatise.
INTRODUCTION OF DISCOVERY INTO
THE COMMONWEALTH.
The success of “ Antineurasthin ” as the antidote to
nervous asthenia is based on Dr. Hartmann’s discovery of
the importance of the brain and spinal marrow as the
central station of the nervous system. Dr. Hartmann
has shown that nervousness, nervous debility, neuras-
thenia, etc., do not represent conditions of debility of the
nerve fibres themselves, but of the brain and spinal mar-
row. In further explanation of the wonderful effect of
“ Antineurasthin,” it may be pointed out that it is not a
drug, but the brain and nerve-substance-forming essen-
tials of certain selected foods. Myeline (or Lecithine) is
Che scientific name for this brain-and-nerve-building con-
stituent of our daily food.
Now, one of those lingering popular fallacies which yet
have a modicum of truth at their base is that fish food
strengthens the brain. This it does, but only to about
the same extent (and less than some) as other articles of
diet.
Though we know that insufficient food, or a dietary
deficient in certain nutrients, allows the body and brain
to fall into a state of weakness, yet, on the other hand,
the body, brain, and nerves cannot be strengthened,
either as a whole or in part, beyond the limits set by the
food appropriative capacity of the system.
It is not continual overloading of the stomach with the
finest or richest foods that will build up additional brain
and nerve strength.
No less than nine-tenths of vital power is exhausted by
life’s primary processes of assimilation and elimination,
but the demand on brain workers to-day creates a more or
less continual overdraft on the nine-tenths proportion of
life’s capital required for the current working expenses
of the body.
Dr. Hartmann’s “ Antineurasthin ” is a scientific
extract compound from those articles of food richest in
the lecithinic, or brain and nerve-building, constituents.
The value of Dr. Hartmann’s discovery lies in the
scientific fact that “Antineurasthin ” is not a mere body
and brain food. It is a brain and nerve food solely, and
as such is directly assimilable by the brain and nervous
system. Hence it supplies the want long-sufferingly felt
by those whose work in life entails an undue cerebral-
nervous demand on the common fund of vital power.
Dr. Hartmann’s discovery is one that should personally
and very deeply interest brain-workers in all walks of
life. Every day is heard and seen all too serious evi-
dences of the undue strain of their intense work on the
vital power of the body. And now, on the highest
possible authority, it is heralded that science has proved
equal to the stern necessity which demanded the dis-
covery of “Antineurasthin” —the brain and nerve food.
No longer need the brain-worker struggle on under the
cloud of fear of failing powers of brain and body. He or
she may, by including “Antineurasthin ” as an article
vitally necessary in the daily dietary, maintain that per-
fect balance of mental and physical power which alone
can uphold health and happiness.
For greater convenience, “Antineurasthin ” is com-
pressed into small tablets, and although its beneficial
effect on the brain and senses is so immediate, yet there
is none of the depressing reaction that follows the
administration of artificial drug “stimulants,” “Anti-
neurasthin ” being a special brain and nerve nutrient,
and not a brain and nerve drug irritant.
This new nerve food comes with hearty commendation
from many scientists, and since its introduction it has
already alleviated much suffering—curing most severe
headaches, acute neuralgia, and sciatica, whilst even
cases of creeping paralysis and brain concussion have
been treated with complete success.
Space does not now allowfurther information respecting
this marvellous 20th century brain and nerve food dis-
covery, but readers may like to know that they may
obtain a copy of Dr. Kuhner’s remarkable treatise, as
well as a sample of Dr. Hartmann’s “ Antineurasthin ” by
sending eight penny stamps to the wholesale distributor
for Australasia, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The effect even of the trial supply offered to readers
will come as a revelation of the possibilities of modern
scientific building up of the brain and nerve-cells.
The above offer of a supply of “ Antineurasthin ” for
personal trial purposes is one that should be immediately
accepted by every brain-worker, as well as by every
reader conscious of some form of weakness of the nervous
system.
The Fund That Failed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONCE some British politicians,
With an axe or two to grind,
Spread some false and lying rumors
Which inflamed the public mind.
They averred the British navy
Was as rotten as could be,
And that Bull had scarce a cruiser
Which was fit to put to sea.
They contended that the plating
Of his Dreadnoughts, as a rule.
Could be punctured by the kicking
Of a conscientious mule ;
That his ships upon the scrapheap
Would be very shortly docked—
And of course the Press went dotty,
And the public mind was shocked.
These assorted lies were cabled
To Australia, and, ’twonld seem,
That the papers fed the mixture
To their readers by the ream ;
For it came to pass in Sydney
Certain Scribes and Pharisees—
Very hinflooential persons
In their sev’ral coteries—
Very ’aughty and ambitious—
Having axes, too, to grind—
Started drinkin’ toasts (in bumpers)
Of an ultra loyal kind.
Till they formed a coalition.
With this object, understand,
The presenting of a Dreadnought
To “ the dear old Motherland.”
They had visions of the vessel
When they went to bed at night—
Well, except on those occasions
When they happened to be tight.
Each promoter of the project,
In his dreams upon his bed,
Saw her straining at her anchors,
Say, at Plymouth or Spithead.
Saw her, rigged and manned and armored,
Floating proudly on the seas,
Knocking spots off French and Germans,
Likewise Turks and Japanese.
So they worked like cargo-shifters
To impress the public mind,
And the Press (with some exceptions)
Came along and shoved behind.
They solicited subscriptions—
Pounds and shillings, cents and sous—
Said the Public really ought to
Pawn its trousers, shirt, and shoes.
Took the chair at public meetings—
In the intervals of booze—
And they raked in quite a harvest
Of P.N.’s and 1.0.U.’5.
What a prospect was before them !
What a cup was at their lip !
When a whisper came from somewhere :
“ Mother doesn't want a ship ! ”
Then, as slumps a mine’s waste-paper
When the bottom tumbles through,
Down to zero fell the prospects
Of the Dreadnought-building crew.
When the whisper pricked the bladder
Such a fall was never seen,
For the public smelt a rodent,
And it wouldn’t part a bean.
Though the Dreadnought-builders bustled,
Fairly grovelled on their knees
For subscriptions. But their chances
Of becoming C.M.G.’s
Might be likened unto Buckley’s,
Into nothingness they paled,
And far flatter than a flounder
Fell the famous fund that failed.
N.s.w.
IRONBARK.
The Passion-Flower.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was Tommy Transom who first gave
her the name. He said it in joke ; but the
men in Nathan’s bar turned, looking at him
curiously, and Pilchard set down his glass.
“ We’ve been hunting for that name this two
years, youngster,” he said. “ An’ you’ve hit it in
a day. But you don’t understand the meaning of
it yet.”
“You will,” said Herton, and laughed, flinging
out from the glaring saloon to the unpaved street
and the snarl of hoses across by the lighted
claims.
And within the month Tommy did know, hold-
ing the hem of her dress up in the manuka scrub,
beyond the workings, and telling her that he loved
her ... by all the gods and devils that ever were
or will be, he loved her only and for always. The
Passion-flower drew her skirt away with the soft
laughter that had pulled the heart out of many
men before this day.
“ Tommy, Tommy ! ” she said, “do you think
that half the field hasn’t told me that over and
over, and kissed my feet because I wouldn’t let
them touch my lips—no, not one? ”
Tommy came to his feet swiftly, catching at her
hands.
“ You will let me !” he cried. “Me! Because
I love you as they never did. My queen ”
The Passion-flower was near as tall as himself.
She swayed back from him in the gold of the
after-glow that washed the hill-tops. Her scarlet
lips were parted in a little bitter smile, and the
long, dark eyes held fire.
“And have they not all said that, too ! Oh,
Tommy, what do men think of when they tell a
woman that! It means so little to them ! And
when you called me the Passion-flower, did you
think of what it meant ? Do you know what a
passion-flower is, Tommy ? ”
“ It’s the queen of flowers”
“There’s a cross in it,” she said, looking past
him to the light on the hills, “and there’s a
crown. There is the red-purple of heart’s blood,
and there’s the white—the white of purity. I
think most women—who are women—know some-
thing of all this when they love. But you ”
she turned on him swiftly, “it is passion with
you, and nothing else. It is passion with all you
men ! You want to pick the flower. The cross
and the crown, and the purple and the white . ..
they do not mean anything to you
Her voice broke, and Tommy’s quick, hot words
rushed into the silence.
“ Passion is life and love. It is everything !
It is breath itself ! You are my passion-flower...
you ”
“With the cross and the crown, and the heart’s-
blood, and the white of purity,” she said,
solemnly. Then she gathered up her gown with
a little mocking laugh. “What do you offer in
exchange? Oh, Tommy, I am so tired of you
men ! You give so little ... and you will never
understand.”
She broke from him and fled down the hill
among the white, scarred workings and the rattle
of the hoses. Tommy stood very still, wich the
scent of the crushed manuka rising about him, and
the clear song of a lark dropping down from the
scarlet gate of Heaven. He had come up on the
hill-top to kiss the Passion-flower on the mouth—
his skin burnt suddenly at the memory, and his
heart was hot with a bitter shame.
The shame was with him yet that night in
Nathan’s bar, when coarse jokes were loosed on
the stagnant air and men grew heated with more
than the summer’s night. It was Baynes who
spoke the Passion-flower’s name on the heels of a
ribald laugh, and Tommy came to his feet in one
movement, flinging his glass at the man.
“ An’ you can come an’ get what's behind it, if
you’re game,”he cried.
Seven men were holding Baynes, and Herton
caught Tommy by the arm.
“ What devil right have you to take up her
quarrels?” he said, harshly.
Herton was a big lean man, with trouble scored
on his face and in his restless eyes. Tommy
looked at him.
“I gave her the name,” he said. “Do you
know what it means, Herton ?”
Baynes was shivering with fury.
“ Let me loose, you ——, an’ I’ll show him what
it means,” he yelled ; but Herton still gripped
Tommy’s arm.
“ Tell us,” he said.
Tommy’s hand clenched where it lay on the bar,
and the red burnt his smooth face as it had
burnt it on the hilltop.
“She told me. In a passion-flower there is a
cross . . . and a crown . . . and there is the purple
of a heart’s blood, an’ the white of purity. They
all belong to her, an’—an’ till we can give her
something like ’em in exchange I —l guess she’s
not thinking much of us.” Then he flung up his
head. “ And if any man don’t agree to that he
can come and tell me so,” he cried.
There was a long breath of silence. Then Hug-
gens lifted his leg, and skilfully placed Baynes
out on the footpath. Herton’s hand dropped
from Tommy’s shoulder.
“ You can whale any of ’em you want to, Kid,”
he said. “ I’ll come back in a shake to lend a
hand.”
He ran out into the night, and up over the
gorse and broom of the commonage to the sod hut
that was the Passion-flower’s home. His knock
brought her out, shading a candle with her long
hand.
' “Speak low,” she whispered, “Father’s
sleeping, Why .... Dick ”
“ Joan,” he said. “Is it true? Are there all
those things in a passion-flower, and—can we
offer nothing in exchange ? ”
Only the red of her lips gave color to the pale
face that men called so fair.
“What do you think ? ” she said, softly.
Herton stood silent, looking at her. Then :
“ I could give the heart’s blood,” he said.
“ Could you ? No, Dick. For that would mean
the cross and the crown as well—and it takes a
brave man to give those.”
“There are not many call me a coward,” he
said, curtly.
Her eyebrows puckered.
“ And yet there are many kinds of a coward,
but there is only one way of a brave man—to a
woman’s understanding.”
“ If you’re wanting all four things,” he said,
“ you must get a boy to give them. A man can’t.”
“ Why not ? ”
The pity of the tone shook Herton. He had
seen her in mockery, in childish delight, in scorn,
and in womanly pride. But he had not seen this
before.
“ The Devil knows,” he said, with a half-laugh.
Then he turned on his heel. “You’re asking the
impossible,” he said. “No man can giveall those
things.”
“Of course not! That is why he expects them
from a woman,” she answered in swift mockery,
and swung up the candle to light him down the
track.
Forgetting Tommy, he went to his hut and lay
wide-eyed on his bunk until the morning. Then
he climbed up to the tip-head, and Tommy grinned
at him with a cut lip and a swollen cheek. Herton
paused.
“ Kiddie,” he said, “have you ever done any-
thing that you’re dead ashamed of ? ”
The clear scarlet flushed Tommy’s face.
“I—l’m afraid I’ve thought things,” he stam-
mered.
“ Ah ! ” said Herton, and went to his shovelling
in silence.
It was six weeks before men really began to
notice what was happening. Then Huggens put
it into words.
“What’s Herton doin’ wi' young Tommy ? ” he
demanded. “ Makin’ him swear off of drink—an’
bettin’ —an’ runnin’ after gels. An’ keepin’ him
boxin’ or readin’ outer books —books—o’ nights.
What’s it for ? ”
“ It’s making a nice chap out of Tommy,” said
Crewe.
“Uh ! But what’s it for ? ”
Then Crewe saw light.
“For the Passion-flower,” he said with con-
viction.
Some man told this to the Passion-flower, and
she went into her dark little room and cried, with
her face pressed to the pillow, until the sudden
hurry of heavy boots on the gravel walk roused
her, and she came out to the men who called.
“It’s Herton,” said Huggens. “We was
windin’ him an’ Tommy up the shaft, an’ the rope
began ter crack. So Herton dropped off, an’ we
got the Kid someways. Herton wants ter see
yer—what’s lef’ o’ him.”
Herton was waiting with eager eyes when she
stooped over the bunk.
“ He’s good to the core, Joan,” he said, huskily.
“ He can give you—all, in exchange ”
But she put her arms about him with a bitter
cry.
“ Dick ... Dick ! I don’t want them from
him ! It is you ! You only ! Dick ”
A sudden flood of joy and desire swept the drawn
face. Then Herton’s eyes darkened.
“ God pity me—for I can’t give them, dear.”
She put her lips to his.
“ You have three,” she whispered. “ God will
give you back the fourth—one day.”
Then Herton went to seek it.
G. B. LANCASTER.


“Four years ago I had to stop shearing, as I suffered
so with rheumatism, caused by the damp sheep. As the
2
liniments and medicines I tried
did me no good, I thought seri-
ously of going to. the hospital,
but was induced to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. From the first bot-
tle I began to get better. I took
seven bottles in all, and I now am
free from pain, and can eat and
sleep grandly. I feel like a new
man -” A. H. Watson,
Gawler, S. A.
This is one of very many letters testifying to the value of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla in cases of rheumatism. j£eep your blood pure by using /
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. There are many
imitations that will do you no good. Get “AYER'S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass-, U. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do yoa suffer from this complaint ? No doubt vou wish
to be cured without operation. Then send for particulars
of our perfectfittiug
Automatic air cushion Appliance
T B « ST f t UPTUR ' : ApPLiANC ' Of the CENTURY-
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fres
CO., 261 Collins St.,Melbourne,Vic
LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds
Loosens phlegm, allays irritation.
A POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH.
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
Each Capsule bears the name
Tha Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OIRTMEMT,
Xn use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, £lO, Lain bet,l l Road London, Eng.
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Manufacturers
Government Contractors.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can't keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to everv home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
«tnong whom are
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not foil or injure
anything. une
lasts the entire
seas' >n.
Sold by
Wholesale
iruggists.
Groce, s and
Hardware
iala r ■ ,
D e;
Sydney— Anthony Hordern <fe Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. j
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O'Connell St. ; S. HofFnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldhoim, Gottholf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & 00. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y.,U.S.A.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy’for Oous'hsand Colds. Of 40years’proven efficacy.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk.” a,
collection of his best verses ; bound m cloth, with
portrait; price 4s tkl. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J. COL LIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing’
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY
CHEMISTS
Prices in
England-
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acta li e a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the on!y
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
THE “JOHNSTON
55
mwMh
Wrench
and
-
A High Grade Too! of Remarkable Simplicity and Efficiency.
12 inch.
£ to 1 'inoli,
16 inch.
i to n inch,
11s. 6d.
24 inch,
1 to 2$ inch,
225. 6d.
CRUCIBLE STEEL.
V
THREE PARTS
themselves to the
The Jaws adjust thee
-
Warranted crush
: ■>.
handle.
Will grip a worn, corroded or greasy nut.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET,
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
WANT OF TONE
is usually indicative of deficient vitality,
and points to an impaired state of the
general health which should have imme-
diate and persevering attention. It is the
condition which obtains when, for any
reason, the body is not receiving the due
supply of life-force from the nourishment
taken. The cause is largely connected with the
imperfect assimilation of food. Generally it
MEANS
failure on the part of the digestive organs to
perform their functions satisfactorily. When
the stomach is out of order, tone very speedily
departs. Consequently the scientific method
of dealing with the want-of-tone trouble is
to secure the restoration of the digestive
organs to their normal vigor. This can
always be accomplished ■ by the intelligent
use of BEECHARTS PILLS, the most
efficacious of all family medicines. They
never fail to dissipate all the conditions
which cause a person to be “ run down ” or
“ below par/' and to bring back health,
strength, and buoyant spirits. When you
feel depressed or listless they will make you
fresh and fit. Remember that want of
health, more often than not, is due to
WANT OF
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
' —-— :
Prepared only by
THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Eng.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 10 %d.
(36 pills), 111% (56 pills ) & 2j9 (168 pills).
r
; •: .
:
*
- ■'•' :'.; f
m
The Bulletin
* ~ ”*
f POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS
NEW SERIES, IV., V:, VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. y. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists-—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
MeCrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - 6d.
Packet of Ten - - - - sd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
ON
Sale—2/6
States, 1/2.
Street,
-Cheap Jbkution 1
Postage, N.S.W., 7d.
The Bulletin Office, 214
tfow On
; other
George
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength • long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
man y worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
. Por sale by seedsmer
ists, storekoppers. anc
Proprietor, 39 Run ter
Sample bottles and
li. 4d. ( stamps > to make
I, florists, country chem-
Iby E. J). MORRISON,
-STREET, •''TDNET,
full particulars , by poot,
5 gallons spray.
BrifislKflHsfralasla»
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
A/-1 POST FREE, £1 per year,
' yU * in advance, all over the world.
Australiaris visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price


Try one of Perdri&u’s
Celluloid Collars.
Yes, try just one and see if you don’t get more solid
satisfaction out of that than out of three or four of the
ordinary linen collars.
Our celluloid collars are splendidly made, and can be
kept perfectly clean all the
time without any trouble and
at no expense. They do not
lose their nice, dressy appear-
ance in the damp weather as
do linen collars, and they give
wonderfully long wear, too.
We have in stock all sizes
and shapes, including those
specially designed for Clergy-
men, Policemen, Waitresses,
Nurses, etc. The all-round
price is 10d. each ; postage 3d. for two, 4d. for three.
Send for our special Celluloid Catalogue ; it’s full of
interesting information regarding celluloid goods.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
o
HEENAN g FROPDE LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS OF
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR MINES,
HAULAGE and WINDING PLANTS,
WINCHES, THE “ SCHIELE ” MINE FANS.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Water
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
W<P&
&
write
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS— New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten. lOd.
•ss®
PAXMAN STEAM ENGINE (PORTABLE)
’
DOES THE WORK ECONOMICALLY AND WELL. *■"**"”
—
Characteristic for smoothness of working and great regularity of speed, the governor having perfect control
of the Engine at all times. Finish and Workmanship Unsurpassed.
ALSO
Moffat-Yirtue Sheep Shearing
Machinery. Agents in N.S.W.
for Blackstone Oil Engines.
AGENTS:
MOFFAT-VIRTUE- Etd.,
5& 7 Bent Street 9 SydneyN.S.W.
Also at 14 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A., and MARCARET STREET, TOOWOOMBA, Q.
Agents in N.S.W. for Kilgour
Acetylene Generators. Sole
Agents for Oil Sheep Dip.
No. 3.
Specialities: FERRANTI, LIL SYDNEY.
H Pfp HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE : £S. & A. Bank Chambers, George Street -
METERS. SWITCH GEAR, High and Low Tension MEASURING INSTRUMENTS.
We do Business that brings Repeat Orders. Send us your Inquiries.
Mas* Omoi t
ai BBOADWAT,
HBW YORK.
M*JW AUCTBAMA* ©FFIOB
41 QUEEN STREET
MELBOUKNE.
P;
CUTT
ATIC
Air Compressors
41 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
STONE
'MINING.
tINES
ANI> QUARRYING PLANTS.
EGAN STREET,
- ■
Pneumatic Tool Dept.
Imperial Riveters.
Imperial Piston Drills.
Imperial Holders-on.
Imperial Chipping and
Cauiking Hammers.
Complete Stocks, etc., kept in
Australia.
mis
B
(SYDNEY) LIMITED, 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
and at MELBOURNE, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, and PERTH.
K JPP
THE WISE ADVERTISER
Will notice the increase in the number
of advertisements in the June issue of
THE LONE HAND. Magazine advertising
is a new tiling in Australia. See what it
has become in America! And the pre-
eminence of THE LONE HAND —its steady
improvement in maße-up and contents—
maKes it the ideal advertising medium.
It goes into the Home. And its price
ensures that it is bought by the people
you want to reach.
GET THE HABIT!
Even the best magazine-agent is not
always able to judge bow many copies of
THE, LONE HAND will be bought in any
given month, If is annoying to miss a
number, especially now tbat eacb issue is
a feature number devoted largely to some
insistent topic of tbe hour. The safest way
is to become a subscriber. For 12s. THE
DONE HAND will be delivered for twelve
months post-free in yotir borne—tbe place
wbere THE DONE HAND is appreciated.
is different
from all
others.
It will produce good results where others have failed.
It requires less care and repairs than any other.
The Card has proved its great superiority on all ores.
Mg
■
ANY SAVING IS GOOD ENOUGH FOR SOME, BUT IS IT GOOD ENOUGH FOR YOU ?
We can furnish undeniable proofs. Send for Bulletin No. 9. /
Sole Manufacturers: N. GOTHBIBGE LTD., 263 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbour/ne.
