

DEWAR’S
The Whisky for Men of Taste.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’
011 I ' lll ' Kl
Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW SECOND-HAND I'I,ANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE,
AM, CENKR 11, IHONMONCKIi.Y,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
McLaren
Traction Engines.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
12S William Street, Melbourne.
3E3CO:^.A.m.»X».
fiaiieys Orient fjotel.
PIONEER
W ffl
ILEATHER1 LEATHER
□
BEITINGiH
EVERY SELT GUARAN lEE D.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Take it back,
* I must-have -
HUTTONS
PincAppJc Brand P*
CHUBB'S DIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
A Shearing Plant.
You want the Best, so your
choice should fall on
QomX Machines
* and
Fairbanks-OTorse Engine
They are unrivalled for steady
running and economy.
(oopcx
Sheep Shearing
Machine Pty. Ltd.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
Offo, all, , wal/fouj u i%* £est
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
““ ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES.
Wo make it a point of never being out of anything. We keep large stocks of Accumulators and Dry Celle and all acceeeorioe.
Accumulators repaired and ro-chargrcd by Experts. Your Orders solicited.
THE SILVEJRTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET-—— , SYDNEY.
BECK’S LAGER BEER
Stomach and Digestive Complaints.
PEPSIN
IF YOU SUFFER FROM
Chronic Indigestion, Catarrh
of the Stomach or of the Bowels,
Heartburn. Dyspepsia. Bilious
ness. Rachitis, you should AT ONCE
TEST THE VALUE of Lang.-i-ekV
Pn-Kxtnict. lately introduced in
ommonwealtb.
iYuirieroiii; descriptions of cores, wit!
signed testimonials from doctors, an
enclosed with each bottle.
These, medical gentlemen’s endorsee
recommendations will shmv sufferer!
of any of the above-mentioned disorder!
that it is a remedy of highest value
hnd speedily cures the most obstinut*
castes, and is not placed before the
public on the recommendations of
dubious testimonials.
LANGEBEK’S EXTRACT,
with 10 per cent, peps: cone: Isnfrdsk,
will be POSTED TO .ANY APDKKSS on
notinr of 3 ~ (stanijm from lhe Sole
Australian AgwDf s E. COMMESEN & CO.,
Oe Mestre Plaoe, off 30S George Street,
Sydney, if not 'obtainable Ideal!.*'.
HANSENS
MALTHOID is the most
natural ROOFING in ex-
istence, as it fulfils every
condition necessary for a
perfect roof.
WLaMsoid
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Tfc protects equally from
heat or cold, storm or
rain, and can be laid by
any man of ordinary in-
telligence.
HOPPER WACGONS.
ROAD-MAXING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY* U°
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY \J°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA and STOUT can be
taken by most feeble digestion.
GOLUIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 30.— N0. 1532.]
[Thursday, June 24, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS OF THE WEEK.
Binstead : Pitcher’s Proverbs, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Roberts : How to Make a Hundred Break,"is 3d, post 3d
Hobson : Industrial System, 9s, postage Bd.
Armstrong : Mystery of Existence, 3s, postage 4d.
Arrhenius : Life of the Universe, 2 vols., 6s, postage 8d
Adam s Electricity Book for Boys, 6s.
INCLUDING THOSE REVIEWED
THIS PAGE.
ON
Wis e : The Commonwealth of Australia, 9s, postage 9d.
Redmond : Through the New Commonwealth, Is, p. 4d
Rice : Mr. Opp, by author of “Mrs. Wiggs,”cloth 3s 6d,
w K'® d ; 1 ?; ln : Rifted Family, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Wells . Joseph and his Brethren, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Dickens in Our Commonwealth, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
JUST TO
HAND.
PRINTER’S
FOR
| Pictures and Prose,
“ ORM * «*• ™°r- ‘■TO., 7, c«S;S , ’^«
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
CJ
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung-.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. Agencies in all
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street,, London. '
THE RED PAGE
Australia according to Wise
mHERE is need of a book on Aus-
JL traiia which will give the general
reader, in handy compass, all that
be wants to know and all that lie should
be told. It ought to describe the physical
and geographical features of the con-
tinent, give a resume of our history
(something like the introductory chapters
. lay’s History); and, in a narra-
tive not overladen with figures, set forth
tie industrial, political, social and in-
tellectual life of the Australians. The
statistical supports should appear in the
appendix, with a list of books worth
consulting on special points. There
should be plenty of maps and a full index.
.K. Wise s book on r l'he oowwion-
wealth of Australia (per Angus and
Robertson) does not meet this want. It
is the first of Pitman’s All Bed Series, the
object of which is to give a full account
of the countries described, and “ to help
on the formation of the habit of thinkin" 1
imperially.’ From the Preface it would
appear that the author desired to do for
this country (as far as the plan of the
sc! ies would allow) what Bryce did for
the American Commonwealth. He gives
a brief sketch of the place and the people,
a history of the Labor Party, the Land
I jaws and the Federal movement, with
an account of the system of government
and some recent legislation.
The best part of the book is the account
of the Federal Government and industrial
legislation. I here is no other book, so
far as we know, which sets forth the
Constitution and its working so well, and
if British readers take the trouble to read
it they will get a fair understanding of
the political situation here. And Wise
is to be commended for renjembering
some of the smaller men who lent a hand
in the work for union.
He has certainly endeavored to make
out as good a case as possible for Aus-
tralia. His justification of the White
Australia policy and rebuttal of false
statements made about us are praise-
worthy, but ,we think the book would
have been more effective if it had Been
less “facty.” Large chunks of statistics,
drawn from Knibbs’ quarry, should have
been put in the cellar, and not scattered
about the main apartments. If the pur-
pose of the book was to present Australia
as she stands, there was no need to argue
about the wrongness of elective Ministries
and the referendum, nor to give a detailed
account of our past land legislation
mostly transferred from Epps’ Land
Systems of Australia.
The book seems to have been written
in a hurry. The style is indifferent, and
the materials are plastered together in-
stead of being fused into a clear and
simple narrative. Compared with W
P. Reeves’ story of M.L., The Long White
Cloud, its defects as a readable book are
strikingly evident.
The physical geography of Australia
has been better described in The British
Empire, edited by A. F. Pollard (noticed
on this page 13/5/’O9), which also sup-
plied an admirable synopsis of our general
history. Much as our desert region is
exaggerated, it is hardly fair to the
British public to say that Australia “ is
habitable in every park” (p. 2). Consul-
tation sweeps are not accurately de-
scribed, and they are not now as preva-
lent as is implied. Cricket scores are no
longer exhibited outside newspaper offices
in Sydney. Australians may not be a
saving people, but it is difficult to be-
lieve that “the Australian .... puts
by in insurance more than he can afford,
spends his income and gambles his sav-
ings on the racecourse or a mini no- ven-
ture ” (p. 35). ' s
In the chapter on Technical Education
he says : “At one college in Sydney any-
one can get instruction—and a certificate
°f. competence—in more than 50 trades.
His course of instruction may last a
I week, and at the end of it he will be able
to do, say, simple plumbing ” (p. 82). The
last sentence is simple nonsense. There
is nothing more than a cursory reference
to literature, art and music in the Com-
monwealth—but, of course, they are not
so important as cricket, so that their
Omission does not matter.
The bush “hatters,” the “knocking
down ” of cheques, the swagmen who
“humped Matilda” (p. 38 and 39)—he
must have got from a printed book, for
diey mostly belong to an earlier age. In
:act, Wise does not seem to know the
iush at first hand, and has derived a
food deal of his information (duly
icknowledged) from E. C. Buley’s Aus-
ralian Life in Town and Country , and
filbert Parker’s Round the Compass in
iustralia, which was published seven-
een years ago. Macarthur’s name is
pelt “ McArthur,” Mcllwraith ’s as
• McKurack,” Dr. Lang figures in the
nadequate index as “Governor Lang,”
and several other names are misspelled.
The map supplied is on too small a scale
to be of much value, and the selection of
photographs might easily have been
better.
As an account of Australia, the book
is not satisfactory; but it has a certain
minor value as indicatin'" the progress of
I Wise from the high priori dogmatism
of his Cobden Club essay on Industrial
Freedom to the pragmatism which re-
cognises that the so-called laws of Poli-
tical Economy jnay have to be broken over
and over again under pressure of the
people’s needs.
Not all of our visitors give us such a good
character as does William Redmond in
Thro ugh the New Commonwealth (Sealy
Bryers and Co., Dublin, Is.). He tells his
nvn people that Australia is a mighty fine
:ountry with a great future before it, and is
adly needing _ population ; but he does not
>oost Australia as an El Dorado for Irish
migrants. The Australians are an inde-
lendent and polite people, hard working
nd pleasure loving; the bushmen are splern
id specimens of humanity; and “there is
o doubt that the Australian woman stands
ery near the top of the list of the women of
he world. She is ornamental and useful,
nd very much indeed of both.” Except for
few small errors of fact and misspelt
ames Redmond gives a very fair account
f the places he visited and the position of
nngs generally in this country—“ the home
f the freest and most progressive demo-
■acy in the whole world.”
* *' • *
It is announced that J. Foster Fraser is
>ming to Australia to lecture and write a
x>k about us. The book will probably be
lied Australia at Play ” —a companion
cture to “America at Work.” In time
ieie will be an F.F. book for every country
i earth.
* * * *
Dickens in Our Commonwealth ■, compiled
' P- D. Johnstone (Atlas Press, Mel-
•uine), contains assorted photographs and
says of the Right Worshipful-Brothers and
sters of the Melbourne Branch of the
.ckens Fellowship, of which Madden
the P.P.P. or patron. A paper
Dawson s Appreciation of Dickens ”
not reprinted, but we get Rentoul
Chesterton on Dickens— warmly appre-
'tive of Chesterton; and on the next
ge H. Gyles Turner, P.P.V-P., says :
lake no heed of the ‘ superior person ’
of Mr - Chestertou.” One of the
W.B. s laments the unpopularity of
ckens with young Australians, and con-
ers that the main cause is their want of
s bump of veneration. He closes his essay
, 1 anecdote : “ Some years ago a horse
led Kit Nubbles was considered to have a
*d chance of winning the Melbourne Cup,
1 all the juniors in our office were talking
mt this horse. I asked some of them
no was Kit Nubbles?’ but none could
. And although I made the offer— 4 1
l give half-a-crown to anyone in the office
) can tell me who was Kit Nubblesnone
Id tell.” If he has found out since, he
;ht have enlightened us.
he existence of a Dickens Society with
members, Shakespeare, Dante, Browning
Burns Societies, besides one or two full-
,vn Literature Societies in Melbourne is an
dration of one of the differences between
' pity and Sydney. Such institutions do not
rish in N. S. W. atmosphere, though we be-
e there is a society by the name of Shakes-
-e somewhere about. Wise says truly that
ney-siders are sun-loving folk, and they and
r young spend the evenings in mild amuse-
'ts I hey would certainly have to be
ied to a meeting where Mrs. Euphemia
dums lectured on the “ Ethical Signifi-
ie of Mr. Winkle.”
If The Green Curve (referred to last week),
with its pictures of the grim realities of war,
needs an antidote try Green Ginger, by
Arthur Morrison (per Dymock’s Library).
There are 16 short stories of about equal
merit, and all are amusing.
* * * *
Mr. Opp (llodder and Stoughton) is
written in the cheerful vein of Mrs. Wiggs.
Alice Hegan Rice laughed with Mrs.
Wiggs; but she laughs at Mr. D. Webster Opp,
the quaint half-baked egotist “ who seldom
saw things as they were, but saw them as
they were going to be.”
“ The aggressive Mr. Opp, of the gorgeous
raiment and the seal ring, the important
man of business, the ambitious financier,”
who hatched The Opp Eagle in sleepy Cove
City, and made things hum, is also “the
delicate, sensitive, futile Mr. Opp, who was
incapable of everything but the laying down
of his life for another ” —an American cousin
of Locke’s Septimus.
Larry Pain has seldom been in better
form than when he wrote The Gifted Family
(Methuen). The Pre'ndergast’s children
were all gifted—Fred as an arfist; Juliet,
musician ; Ida, elocutionist; and- Sandra,
the youngest, “was getting on with her
shorthand.” Old Prenclergast traded in
books by day, and at night he read
Meredith.
“At half-past nine, with much rattling
and jingling, Stafford (the diminutive ser-
vant) brought in a tray. Mr. P. sat up with
a sudden jerk, and his book fell from his
knees. Stafford said good-night, closed the
door and instantly reappeared
“ ‘Poached or biled for to-morrow?’ she
inquired. She wasted nothing—not even
words.”
Into this happy family a wealthy doctor
drops, by chance, and falls in love
with Sandra. The other gifted children
somewhat disappoint their parents, but all
end in prosperity. It. is an unpretentious
yarn that had to end happily.
* * ■* *
The Oxford University Press, of which’
the warehouse was destroyed by fire on the
9th May, was the greatest of English pro-
vincial presses and a fountain of scholarly
works for centuries past. Its first book
unmistakably bears the date 1468 (which is
earlier than Caxton’s first work ■at West-
minster), but most bibliographers consider
that the date is an error, and that the
book was not printed until 1478. Burton’s
Anatomy of Melancholy was printed there in
1621, and Bacon’s Advancement of Learning
in 1640. The Press was-capable of printing in
over 150 languages, and in 1888 began its
greatest undertaking, The New English Dic-
tionary, under the editorship of Dr. Murray.
It is issued down to the letter “R ” in parts,
and it was expected to be completed in 12
volumes in 1912. An illustrated account of
the Press by Falconer Madan was published
last year.
* * * *
Over in Fremantle, W.A., a gallant little
annual, Australia Junior, blossoms for the
fourth time. It is issued gratis, and is worth
more than that for the portrait of Grant
Hervey alone. In its •“ Fore Say—-Chiefly
to Parents” the youngster talks sensibly,
though it may sound bumptious :
It is OUR country we stand for, not for some-
one else’s. Compared with Australia, England is
small concern, Ireland is small concern, Scotland
is small concern—except as Imperial partners—
Europe is small concern,, but Australia is our
greatest concern. The latter sentence will bring
to us the accusation of narrow-mindedness, but
patriotism is essentially narrow. From the senti-
mental view point, it is the kind of narrowness
that causes parents to value their own offspring
above the children of others. . . . Again, Aus-
tralia i/wst be our greatest concern.
And here is a bit of Hervey’s “Battle
Hymn of the New Australia ” ;
Thy sacerdotal bards, thy cannoneers of song,
Their hymns shall raise of thee, O continent of
glories ;
Thy message they shall breathe—thy message
brave and strong,
I hear thy spiri t’s voice where each sea-hammered
shore is !
Thy psalm of destiny, glad chant of coming da vs—
I hear it in each wave on thy cliff-bases falling;
It thunders in the storm—yea, round thy capes
and bays,
Australia’s battle-hymn—thy voice, 0 mother,
calling !
O lustrous land and dear, land of the larger
creed—
Land of the vision new, hear’st thou thy children
hailing?
They stand erect and strong, they are thy stalwart
breed—
With thee they bravely go, 0 ship-soul proudly
sailing 1
We are thy lovers all—be guarded with our steel.
Our blood we proffer thee, our strength and
heart’s devotion ;
This is our common prayer : God save the
Commonweal—
From each true heart it swings like some star-
surging ocean !
A Forgotten Poem of the "Second
Golden Age.”
Are you aware that we have discovered
an unknown poem more Shakespearean than
anything else out of Shakespeare?” exclaimed:
D - Gr. Rossetti' to Theodore Watts-Dunton.
The unknown poem was “ Joseph and his
Brethren, written in that period described
by Swinburne as the “ second golden age of
English poetry, by one whose name, to the
great mass of the poetry-reading public, is
unknown, although mentioned in a sonnet
by Keats.
It is indeed surprising that a work so
highly spoken of by Rossetti, and praised by
Swinburne as “ perfect in grace and power,
tendei and exquisite in choice of language,
full oi a noble and masculine delicacy in feel-
ing and purpose,” should have till now re-
ceived such scant consideration from a people
thirsting for anything approaching the won-
derful nectar with which the greatest of the
Elizabethans filled up his cup of poesy. Yet
the fact remains that when issued pseudony-
mously in 1824, “Joseph and his Brethren ”
met with utter indifference. 41 Never,” said
Rossetti,, “did a book fall more dead from
the press.” Contemporary journals did not
review it, nobody bought it, it entered the
world unobtrusively, and “glided almost
imperceptibly from it,”
“Joseph and His Brethren” is now
published in a cheap form by the Oxford.
University Press, with a characteristically
eulogistic introduction by Swinburne, and an
unnecessarily egotistical and discursive
“Note upon Rossetti and Charles Wells”
by Theodore Watts-Dunton.
“Shakespearean” is a well-worn epi-
thet which more or less discriminating
critics have at various times attached to at.
least a couple of dozen poems, the reading of
which has only served to emphasise Shake-
speare’s immeasurable superiority over them
all; and “ Joseph and His Brethren ”is not
likely to usurp the place of any of the Bard’s
works in our affections.
That Wells can turn outgood Shakspearean
lines and phrases there can be no doubt.
This is proved early in. the Prologue to the
first act of “ Joseph and His Brethren ” by
these lines, descriptive of the setting sun :
A god gigantic, habited in gold,
Stepping from off a mount into the sea.
And there is certainly what Swinburne calls
a “ grand Elizabethan echo” in one passage
of Joseph’s speech to his envious brothers
(Act I.) :
Would they be envious, let them then be great,
Envy old cities, ancient neighborhoods,
Great men of trust and iron-crowned kings ;
For household envy is a household rat;
En vy of state a devil of some fear.
E’en in my sleep my mind doth eat stra/nge food
Enough to strengthen me against this hate.
But perhaps the moth (Wells) approaches
nearest to the Avonian star, in this passage
from Act 11., Scene 3 :
Attendant :
Then, madam, you would say
That there is nothing in the world but love.
Pharaxanor:
Not quite ; but I would say the fiery sun
Doth not o’ershine the galaxy so far !
Nor doth a torch within a jewell’d mine
Amaze the eye beyond this diamond here
More than the ruddy offices of love
Do glow before the common steps of life.
“Joseph and His Brethren ” is in form a
dramatic poem ; not, please note, a poetic
drama. It was obviously never intended for
presentation on the stage. Some of the
speeches are too long to be even read with
pleasure in the library ; to listen to them
recited in the theatre would be intolerable.
Eire triangular scene between Potiphar and
his wife and Joseph, in the second act,
although skilfully handled by Wells, would
fall flat if witnessed from before the footlights.
Its story follows the Biblical narrative
closely throughout. In doing this, the great
difficulty the poet had to surmount was the
creating of an acceptable heroine. In the
Bible, Potiphar’s wife has not even a name,
neither has she in the Koran ; she is simply
a personification of lust. To make a heroine
(using the word in its true sense and not as
merely applying to the central female figure
of the poem) of such a woman, one who is
regarded by n;ost people as a coarse and
sensual creature, is a task requiring much
poetic power and imagination. That Wells
has performed this difficult task successfully,
and given us, in Pharaxanor, a heroine whom
Swinburne has not unjustly compared with
the Cleopatra of Shakespeare, must always
stand to his credit ; it is, in itself, a proof of
the claims put forward by his admirer’s of his
right to be considered as a Great Poet.
VIC.
HARRISON OWEN.


Jk
w a
Guard Lever Harrows
.-V
J
J
IJDS7
Similar in construction to the ordinary XT-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition of the
Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards, or trashy ground.
The ends of the tooth bars being prptected prevents injury from colliding with .trees or shrubs,
and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the ordinary Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or to clear
the Harrow of trash. , ,
Made in 2 Sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the section. The teeth are 8 inches long by
4 inch square, . ■
2 Sections of 25 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Bft., complete, 70/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft., complete, 75/-
We are now stocking Canton No. 4 Disc Ploughs, which for general use every-
where, in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil, is better adapted than any other make or style.
The discs are 24 inches in diameter, and the single disc will turn furrows from 3 to 12
inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions between each disc. The'
discs are all ball bearing, have dust r proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle to revolve
freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely over and is thoroughly
pulverised.
The Canton Disc Plough has been universally successful, and is quoted complete
with Swingle Tree and Neck Yoke.
2 Furrow, Weight 7801 b., .£l5/10/- ; 3 Furrow, Weight, 9001 b., £2O.
Canton No. 4 Disc Plough.
Wiard Steel Beam Ploughs (Right Hand).
.
Forged Steel Beam, Chilled or Steel Moldboard, Jointer or
Coulter Scotch Clevis. Handles raise and lower. Wheel
adjusts to either side of beam.
No. 74.
No. 74, One-horse Plough, will plough 4in. to 6in. deep, 4in. to llin. wide; weight 841 b., £2/10/-
No. 75, One-horse Plough, will plough 4in. to 7in. deep, 6in. tolOin. wide; weight 801b.’ £2/10/-
No. 100, Two-horse Plough, will plough 6in. to 9in. deep, lOin. to 14in. wide; weight
1061 b., £3/7/6.
No. 21, One-horse Swivel Plough, will plough 4in. to 7in. deep, 6in. to lOin. wide • weight
771 b., £2/4/-
Revolving Coulters with damp, 12in., 15/6; 14in., 17/6.
A strong and serviceable sub-soil plough, intended to follow in the furrow of the turning
plough, and to loosen the soil in the bottom of the furrow from three to six inches deep.
This plough is being used by some of our best practical farmers, and is especially adapted
for use in the culture of the sugar beet and similar crops, where deep cultivation gives the best
results. For ditching purposes it has no equal.’ Weight, 1061 b. Price, 50/-
ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LISTS POST FREE
OR A P PLICA TION.
New Universal Garden Plough
and Attachments.
With Rear Wheel, 17/6.
The Front Wheel is adjustable and is 15£in.
in diameter. The handles are also adjustable.
The finish is in the same style as our Other im-
plements of this well-known line. The attach-
ments arel Landside Plough, 1 Sweep or
Scuffle, 1 Rake and 1 Double-Tongued Cultivator.
Canton Scotch Clipper Ploughs
(No. 607 x).
lOin. Steel Beam, for two horses, weight 911 b.
Fitted with one Share ... 75/-
Extra Shares, 9/6.
No. 607 x.
No. 604.
Empire All-Steel Cultivator,
with Attachments shown in the sketch (No. 604),
weight, 901 b., 34/6.
We specially recommend this Cultivator, as
with the attachments it can be used for culti-
vating almost any crop.
Extra Tines,' l|in., 1/sin., 2in., 6d. each.
Sweeps, 10in., 1/- ; 12in., 1/1 ; and 14in. 1/2 ea.
Pair of Hilling Board Attachments,. 10/6 pair.
Extension pieces to make into 7-Tine Cultivator,
7/6 pair.
Wiard Patent Steel Beam Ploughs.
Wiard Patent Steel Beam
Swivel Ploughs with
Straight Coulter.
No. 120, Steel Beam (as illus-
trated), sin. to Bin. deep, Sin.
to 12in. wide, weight with
Clevis, 1181 b., 78/6.
These are the first practical Steel Beam, Side-hill Ploughs ever produced. The
beams are of highest grade forged steel, and are stronger than any other/beam made. They
are so adjusted that the plough works perfectly when reversed either way, and all the parts
are attached in 'the simplest hut strongest manner.
The ITorgan Spading Harrow
m
f
%
This engraving shows the Morgan
Spading Harrow with cleaners, put up
for two-horse work. We have secured the
exclusive right to sell the Morgan Spading
Harrow for New South Wales, and our
experience of its sale has only confirmed
the opinion, formed after special investi-
gation and extended inquiry, that it is the
best implement for pulverising the soil, and
that, as now perfected, it is unquestionably
the best and cheapest Harrow ever in-
vented.
These Harrows are fully rigged with
whiffletrees, neck yoke, cleaners and
transport wheels.
New Attachment, introduced by
us, to do away with the ordinary pole,
making the Spading Harrow turn round
in its own length, and saving the chafing
of the pole on the horse’s side and neck,
complete, 25/-
No. 602—A, 3ft., one horse, 16in. spades, £s/1 7/6.
No. 602—A, 4ft., light, two horses, 16in. spades, £6/10/-
No. 603—A, sft., light, two horses, 16in. spades; weight, 4001 b., £6/12/6.
No. 603—A, 6ft,, standard for two horses, 16in. spades ; weight, 4501 b., £7/6/-
No. 603—0, 6ft., heavy, two horses, 18in. spades ; weight, 5001 b., £B/2/6.
No. 603 —C, 7ft., two or three horses, 18in. spades ; weight, 5501 b., £B/12/-
No. 603—0, —8ft., three horses, 18in. spades ; weight, 6001 b., £B/17/6.
Sets of Discs, to fit 3ft. and sft. A, to immediately convert them into Disc Harrows (by this
addition the purchaser has Two Harrows in One)—3ft., 44/-; sft., 54/6.
SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON 8 Co. Ltd.,
Sydney’s Leading Skin Salesmen.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
T.ticl.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
ie caretiilly attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
° classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered pronp.'-lv.
exceptional facilities are offered by this Companv to WHEAT growers for free storage of
tneir grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GKIP DROPPER.”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape « BOOKS
THAT YOU HAVE
WRONGED ME
doth appear in this :
You have not noted that
WILL ANDRADE
is Special Agent
for Samuel French,
Ltd., London, and
lias the Largest Stock
of Plays in Australia.
Write for New Cata-
logue, post free anywhere.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cacti e—C aus e s,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, 8/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
ivedia, latest edition, 1248
payes, 400 colored plates
and enyravinys, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only yenn-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry
Explained, J /". Ne w
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, I/-.
Letter Writer.' 1/-.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
I t»X
mA
a, \w
m
’ *
■r-
Diminishing:
Cards.
Ordinary
Play i n g
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘ squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
nltogeth er.
Co ni p 1 e t e,
with full in-
struct ions;
anyone can
work them.
2/9,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are :— (i)The
Change, and (2) The Two-from-Five,
posted Bd. Above 3 Tricks, post free a
Lightning
6d. each;
ywhere, 4/-
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
Y Ride only
BROOKS
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free-
J. B. BROOKS &Co.„ Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,'
England.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
WINCHESTER.
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .C 2 caliber repeater ever
offered. It’s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It’s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
„ CRACKAJACK Junior”
CRACKAJACI
Built to Beat the Band
®I The Reeds are made
of Be 1 Metal, and
are Timid to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth Organs
JP gxsr- MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... 1/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 21- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds l/-i
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents
ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of tho
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure lor Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA.
Debility, indigestion
and Palpitation.
A COMPLETE CURE.
By perusing the following story, the reader will
be made acquainted with circumstances that pos-
sibly hear a personal resemblance, in which event
gratefulness would be felt towards Mrs. Josephine
Mack, of No. 21 Parsons Street, Balmain, for
placing on record her remarkable experience.
Answering the reporter’s first question Mrs.
Mack said :
“As a sufferer from debility and indigestion, I
ought to be able to speak with authority on the
subject of what is the most effective remedy for
such afflictions, and the knowledge I gained in this
respect came through following the example of a
relative, who had been suffering like myself, and.
who was quite restored to health by Clements
Tonic.”
“Had you been ailing long, Mrs. Mack?”
“Yes, too long for my liking, and a weary time
it was, too. I had tried many alleged remedies,
and only wasted my money in doing so. Need-
less to say how despondent I was as a result. I
had no strength to get about, and the easiest work
in the house was often too much for me. Yes,
anybody around here can tell you what I was like
then, for I have been in this house for the past
eleven years and am pretty well known. Ah !
little did I think of the misery that was in store
for me when I was a healthy, young woman,
teaching at a school in Tipperary. But we never
know what is before us. Why, mv life became a
positive burden to me. I was subject to reeling
sensations. I would feel myself swaying to and
fro, and it required a big effort to save myself from
falling to the floor. The severest form of head-
aches attacked me, and I was terribly nervous,
too, and when nervousness hinges on to a woman
her unhappiness is complete. The terrifying
thoughts that come to the brain, such as strange
sounds being present, making the belief that
somebody is stealthily moving about the room, or
a window being raised in the dead of night, are
enough to distract a person entirely. And in the
fretful state of mind then ruling every little
trouble was magnified into an impassable mountain
of adversity. Very often I would go and lie down,
quite unable to keep up any longer, and I don’t
know what would have happened only for the
Clements Tonic that I fortunately started taking
in time.”
“ Did your illness entail any difference in
weight?” :
“My word, it did; but it was astonishing how
soon it came back once I had got properly going
with Clements Tonic, which seemed to make the re-
moval of my afflictions quite easy. Before this, 1
hadn’t any prospect of getting my strength back,
for I could not eat, and a person cannot do much
good without an appetite. But the trouble was
that when I did force myself to eat, I suffered
fearfully from indigestion—heavy sensations in
the chest, such as made the very act of breathing
a difficulty, and pains under my shoulders, across
my back, and aches in my limbs that were most
wearisome. My heart palpitated dreadfully, and
there were pains in the region of that organ, too.
So you see, I was altogether in a bad way. But.
thank God, there is a very marked difference in
my physical oondifion between now and then, and
I have to give all the credit to the remedy I’ve
already mentioned. The derangements of my
nervous system, that had obstinately remained in
existence until Clements Tonic was brought into
requisition, do not trouble me now, neither do any
of the disorders that had proved so wearisome.
By judiciously keeping to my newly-won friend,
Clements Tonic, I succeeded in regaining the
priceless gift of good, robust health, and it is only
fair that I should give to that remedy all the
credit that is due to it. As a nerve tonic, to
brace a woman up, and make her feel invulner-
able against the hardest work and the severest
trials that happen during one’s course through
life, I recommend Clements Tonic. It not only
cured my indigestion, but also supplied in unstint-
ed measure nerve force and strength, which gives
a woman confidence in herself, and to the weak
and sickly I shall alyvays advise the use of that
grand preparation.’’
“ Your views will be duly chronicled.”
“Very well, you are at liberty to publish them
where and how you think best for the benefit of the
whole community.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, JOSEPHINE MACK, of 21 Parsons Street, Balmain,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and's a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Balmain, this twenty-fourth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me,
£1
SYD. J. LAW, J.P,


Poor little fellow! He coughs
so hard he cannot sleep. That
makes him weak and sickly all the
next day. His brother thinks this
coughing is terrible. So do we, for
we know that just a few doses of
Aifer’s
'Cherrif 9eetoral
will stop the cough. For sixty years
it has been the standard remedy
with men, women, and children for
colds, coughs, and all throat and
lung diseases. It contains no nar-
cotic or poison of any kind. Be sure
that you get Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. Accept no cheap and worth-
less substitute.
Prcnarnfl hv Dr. J. C. Ayer &Co.. Lowell, Mass., 0, S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to aiii one, o a ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer thun any other make
LATEST
models
£3.10 to £B
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Lar e i .roflt.
easily made. Write u. once. usinß mffleient roßfce,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Olfor
en sample machine.
MEAD GYGLE GO., LIVERPOOL.
r¥!HE LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Svdnev.
EDITH SPOUNCER
When only 3 months old
little Edith Spouncer, 14
Smith Street, Camperdown,
Sydney, N. S.W., had a
severe attack of whooping
cough and bronchitis, and
her parents thought she
would die. “ I gave her
SCOTT’S Emulsion,” writes
her mother, Mrs. A. Spouncer
(Sept., 1907) “ and after the
first bottle there was a vast
improvement. She has now
fully recovered, and is a fine,
healthy baby.” SCOTT’S is
the perfection of emulsions
and there is only one quality
the standard. When
buying SCOTT’S, therefore,
you may be quite certain
that you are getting the
precise thing which restored
Edith Spouncer to health
and strength. See SCOTT’S
“fish in an.” on the package
—that makes it the right
emulsion !
OF ALL CHEMISTS AND DEALERS
IN MEDICINES.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK OUT YOUR CURE!
BONNINCTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
Sold Everywhere.
i/o <a 2/0.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington ’s’' of 40 years fame.
BONNINGTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from- harmful narcotics.
‘O
IfllSHjS*
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
UNDEVELOPED
7]
few':..
&
T)
\
£S
WOMEN
Are your cheeks sunken and
hollow ? Have you deep
lines around your mouth and
eyes? Are your arms thin
and scrawny, and is your
chest flat and your bosom
undeveloped ? Do your
shoulder blades make even-
in'; dress almost a tragedy ?
Are you so thin that your
clothes merely hang on you ?
Dr. FALLIERE'S
"Flesh-Food”
is the remedy you require.
“ Flesh-Food ” is a scientific
preparation, a medicated
food, put up in tablet form,
and pleasant to take. It corrects those functions
that, dormant, are keeping you thin. It is a
natural tissue builder, and a perfect bust developer.
It will add inches to your measurements, and will
increase your weight on an average of about
five pounds a week. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and Free Book, or call.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.
DEPT. 5,
Linden Court,
Castleheagh St.,
SYDNEY.
Sauce
>n»i
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
j4sk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
S. SMITH & SON’S
V
s.
w
(LTD.)
“STRAND”
WATCHES
ARE THE
BEST VALUE
OBTAINABLE
Special Terms to
Shippers.
18 ct. Gold English Lever, £l6 16s. Od.; Crystal, £l3 15s. Od.
Sterling Silver „ £6 6s. Od.; „ £5 ss. Od.
Write for Catalogue WATCHES, Clocks, Jewellery, Speed Indicators.
HOLDERS OF SIX ROYAL WARRANTS.
THE BRAKE ON YOUR BICYCLE
sno less important than the Free Wheel. The perfection of both
Brake and Free Wheel will be obtained if you decide upon having
your bicycle fitted with the latest improved
Eadie Coaster Hub.
The demand for these Hubs is simply enormous and has greatly increased
since they have been made at the famous B.S.A. Works. The Hadie
Coaster Hub is now practically perfect, it can be fitted to any
bicycle by any dealer at short notice, and no bicycle can be considered
fully equipped for the road that is not fitted with this device.
For absolute luxury the cyclist can go one better by having
his bicycle fitted with the
Eadie Two-speed Coaster.
This is the only combination of two speeds, free wheel and brake in
one hub, that has satisfactorily passed the test of time. Write for a
B.S.A. handbook and read all about these goods and where they
are made. Post free from —
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
'eanSnt!
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Latter End of Spring.
The wild wet waves of winter time were drifting
o’er his head,
He wrote to her from Maoriland, and this is what
he said :
“It’s hard to make a living, but, whatever fate
may bring,
I’ll come to meet the summer in the latter end of
spring.
To my lips your kisses cling,
You to me are everything—
I will come to clasp my darling in the latter end
of spring.”
She wrote, and if she waited, then she waited all
in vain—
The spring went by and summer, and the autumn
came again.
The autumn passed and winter, and the youth
of whom we sing
Was felling bush for tucker in the latter end of
spring.
When your heart is on a string,
And small rest the night can bring—
Oh, it’s weary, weary waiting in the latter end of
spring.
She wrote, but, ah, his hopes were crushed as
often as they rose—
(Otago’s winds blow mighty cold through old
Australian clothes).
The year went round again, and he'—what sorrows
fate can bring !
Was digging gum in tatters in the latter end of
spring.
He would lose his head and sing
Of his blue-eyed Lily King—
’Twas a brown-eyed girl that loved him in the
latter end of spring.
But luck will change however and wherever you
may roam ;
An uncle left him money, and the calf grew fat at
home—
Then never ship can sail too fast when love is on
the wing—
He came to claim his sweetheart in the latter end
of spring,
And his footstep had a swing
When he asked for Lily King . . .
She was married to a banker in the latter end of
spring.
His brow went cold with pain, and then with
anger it grew hot—
“ I’ll love the girl who loves me since the girl I
loved forgot ! ”
He turned to her unto whose soul his love was
everything,
And married her in Maoriland before the end of
spring.
Then fill the glass and sing,
For time is on the wing—
It's jolly, jolly living in the luring months of
spring.
N.S.W.
HEN LAWSON.
The Gardens of Delight.
Far beyond the hills they lie.
Past the mountains and the sky ;
Past the Ocean idea.
And the further purple seas j
Out beyond the utmost bars;
Out beyond the poles and stars;
Past the morning and the night
Lie the Gardens of Delight!
When at last your feet shall tread
Through the pathways of the dead,
You will come to them at last
In the regions of the past;
And your wandering soul shall stand
In a dim and hallowed land,
Whereabout are woods and streams
Peopled out of poet’s dreams.
There the spirits brood and rest
In the kingdoms of the blest,
Where the sleepy zephyrs blow,
And forgetful poppies grow.
There the paths wind through the glades—
Out and under haunted shades—
Bordered with the lupin’s bell,
Meadow-sweet, and asphodel.
Through high-pillared, star-lit aisles
Into lone and dim detiles.
Out of which your soul shall glide
By the broad, green riverside,
Where, upon the further shore,
Shall your eyes behold once more
Spire and turret, coped with gold.
Of the citadel's of old ;
B istioned wall and castled height,
Marbled columns glowing white.
Where, about the gateways strung,
Are emblazoned banners hung;
And along the ancient quays
Lies rich spoil of argosies.
Still the winding pathways white,
Through the Gardens of Delight,
Lead you back into the shades
Of the faery-haunted glades ;
Into quaint and ghostly throngs,
Conjured out of poets’ songs.
Soul, take wings with me, and fly
Past the seas and past the sky,
Through the shadows and the night
To the Gardens of Delight.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


«
U 1
A
wu
Ed
&-w
“A Well Decorated House
Is Permanently Attractive."
Wunderlich designs in Metal add that distinctive charm to
the ceilings and wall-linings that makes the home perman-
ently attractive. And their long lasting qualities commend
them from an economical standpoint.
Every taste is catered for and handsome combinations can
be devised if desired.
The low cost of transportation and their immunity from
fire makes these productions a great boon to country house-
holders.
Write for our handsomely Illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address!
\x 474 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms:
. 243 COLLINS ST.
English
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889.
London 1862. Melbourne 1888. Kimberley 1892./
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH. ,
N
ROTHE
LON
RHAMS
DON
iWATCH es
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
Under Vice>R.eg'al
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies' Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Oastlereag-h Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
Natural Hair Pads from
COMBINGS MADE UP.
21/- Tails from 7/6.
Telephone 2138.
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
df “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
SS3BEL
BLfLS
EE
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. Cd. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Aceordeon comes
sp near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Aceordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Brice JJI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches,jewsiiery, Etc., 2io Queen St, Brisbane
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
<3
P
V
ft
0
a
r ii o,i
“T*-
s==>
WEDDING PRESENTS of EXCELLENT QUALITY and VALUE.
STEWART, DAWSON & CO. (Australia), LTD., Strand Corner, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Our Large Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free.
Nov G4721—-Silver-plated Sauce Boat and
Tray, 18/6.
No. F29s4—Very Handsome llin.
Chased and Silver-plated fern
: Pot, £4/15/-
No. 347—Silver-plated Gong,
with Striker, £l/5 5/-
INo. JJ3B22' Full Size Engraved and Silver-
plated Teapot, £l/6/-
m
No. 5841—Silver-plated Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Stand, with
Butter Knife and Cheese Knife, £l/17/6.
No. 370—Silver-plated Bead Edge Entree Dish,
with Detachable Handle, £2/5/-
Other Designs at £2/15/-, £4, £4/4/-
No. G 9428 The Thistle Sugar and Oreani, Embossed
and Silver-plated, £2/10/-
No. H4609—A1 Quality Silver-
plated and Cut Glass Butter
Dish, 14/6.
No. GsUB—Silver-plated
Candlestick, Thistle
, Design, 13/6 .pair.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1532.
THURSDAY, JUNK 24, 1909.
Pkice 6d.
THAT PROPOSED TWO MILLION LOAN.
John Quick, Postmaster-General in the Fused Ministry, wants to borrow £2,000,000 for Post and Telegraph purposes.
For public information it may be mentioned that the boy is Australia; the gamp with which he is being prodded to his doom signifies the Tory
press; and the benevolent gentleman inside the door is Uncle Cohen. The noose speaks for itself.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
I't inted and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and Mc.Leod Streets, Mosman, for
Ihk Bulletin Newspaper 00.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 Georpe-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
ter Annum ... ... ' ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... . 0 13 6
Quarterly ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Biim.ktik Offu •e. Twenty-Six
blnllinps sterling yon can have. Tint Biim.ktik pouted
i egularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
oie addressed to Wi r.i.i am M act,hod, Ma.napi.na Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would, oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some, care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with reyard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case he addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin.” is the vrover
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing io persons instead of
ojicials. The person may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
1 lie contents of this paper are copyright by the nub-
ushers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
t ie contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers. y
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
( those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivc columns in length, or, say, WOO ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings,
-nil communications will be regarded as strictly eonfi-
Tim Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
foi return it ■ will be understood that the corny is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot, receive, attention. Tim Bdi.lktik
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible tor the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Biim.ktik original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—t.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Thk Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account.'
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Mr. W. C. Rigby , Adelaide—at U/6 'per doz. nett.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British A ustralasian
Office, lid High Holborn, London, W. C.
South A erica. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The. Central News Agency
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
News Agency , Los Angelos City / Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores. Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6fin. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
S^z&xzlZeZztfi,
THURSDAY, JUNE 24, 1909.
FINANCE-FUSED, CONFUSED, AND
OTHERWISE.
Ever since the Fused Australian Government
took office the State Frights press has been full
of grease and wild applause re the good time that
is coming as regards the financial relations of the
Commonwealth and the State Premiers. The
Dreadnought-givers, it seems, are “sympathetic
towards the States”—unlike Lyne and Fisher—
.and when the question of making a new division
■of the tariff revenue comes up they will “ take a
generous view of the States’ necessities.” And
as the Braddon clause—under which the present
division of the tariff revenue is made—can’t be
altered till the end of 1910, and as it is quite
obvious that the Fused Government will be dead
before then, and, being dead, will naturally not
be around to take a generous view of anything,
there is a desire in some quarters to fix
up the new arrangement long before it is
really required, so as to let the Fused multitude do
the job. Joseph Cook is understood to have
seen N.S. W. State Premier Wade on this matter,
and the sympathetic view which Cook takes of
Wade’s attitude, and the appreciation which
Wade reveals in the matter of Cook’s attitude,
and the satisfaction which each of them feels over
both attitudes, are alleged to be touching circum-
stances. In further pursuit of their plan for fix-
ing things up, Wade hired a hall the other night
in a Sydney suburb, and, with a wooden voice
and a wooden countenance, explained exactly how
things should be arranged. And the boundless
gall and effrontery of Wade, his gross and shame-
less selfishness, his complete lack of patriotism,
his narrowness and parish-mindedness, his inca-
pacity to realise that there is such a place as
Australia, his cheerful willingness to damn the
continent in the miserable little interests of his
own miserable little backyard and hen-roost and
dog-kennel, stuck out all over that explanation.
It was always known that Wade was a small
man, but it wasn’t till last week that Australia
quite realised that his right political place is in a
team of educated fleas.
Wade talked largely and frequently about the
amounts which the State Governments were pre-
pared to “allow” the Commonwealth. In that
one matter the exasperating bumptiousness of the
man stood out. After the end of 1910 every penny
of Customs and Excise revenue belongs to the
Australian Parliament, if it likes to claim the
money. It may allow the State Governments
something out of that revenue, or it may not.
Wade’s large statements about what he and his
kind are prepared to allow the Australian Par-
liament out of its own money expressed fully
the attitude in which he approached the
question. And —to get down to details—
it seems that the exact amount which Wade
is prepared to allow the Commonwealth
out of its own money is £4,500,000 a year. He
considers that old-age pensions and the cost of
running the navigation and quarantine depart-
ments will amount next year to £2,000,000,
and that, added to the present expendi-
ture, will just about absorb £4,500,000. And
he cheerfully proposes, if his words mean any-
thing, that that sum should be the Common-
wealth’s fixed and permanent allowance for all
time. The rest of the Customs and Excise
revenue he holds should go to the State Govern-
ments ; he reckons the annual balance at about
£6,750,000 just now, but even though it should in
after years rise to £100,000,000, Wade appar-
ently considers that the State Governments
should get the whole lot just the same. Wade is
one of those who profess to believe that the Con-
stitution “never contemplated” Federal direct
taxation, so the £4,500,000 a year is apparently
his idea of an adequate revenue for the Govern-
ment of a whole continent from now till
Judgment Day. That would naturally mean that
there would never be any transcontinental
railways (Wade, as a matter of fact, proposes to
postpone them for 25 years); that the Northern
Territory wouldn’t be taken over or settled, but
would just remain permanently as it is now ; that
there would be no land or sea defence ; that there
would never be any more lighthouses on the coast
than there are at present; that the quarantine
arrangements would remain the same as they
are, no matter how many new ports were
opened or to what extent sea traffic increased ;
that no new post offices or telegraph lines would
be built; and that when this country had a popu-
lation of 20,000,000, the money available for old-
age pensions would be just the same as it is to-
day when its people number less than 5,000,000.
Also there would be no Dreadnought and no new
developments of any kind. There wouldn’t
even be a Federal capital, and all idea of the
Commonwealth paying for the properties it
has taken over from the States would have
to be abandoned. It seems difficult to imagine
that any sane human being could talk such un-
utterable foolishness, yet Wade certainly did it.
It seems that anything save common-sense,
patrotism and political decency is possible with
Gregory Wade.
State Premier Wade, of course, had to make
some pretence of explaining why the States—or at
least his State—could possibly want all that
money. Otherwise people might think his
reasons were just malice, wickedness, meanness,
a desire to paralyse the Commonwealth and stop
all progress, a savage hatred of Australia and a
longing to work out its destruction, also the low-
down grudgingness of a small-minded man who re-
cognises that the leaders of the Commonwealth are
bigger than himself, and is anxious to prevent them
doing things that would demonstrate their extra
size. As these would be unpleasant suspicions,
Gregory Wade explained things at great length.
It appears that the chief reason why he
wants all this revenue is that there is
need to build railways and conserve water,
both of which items he consistently charges
to loans, and doesn’t pay out of revenue at all.
As for the rest, he made some feeble remarks
about police and lunatic asylums; but the idea
that Australia should abandon all progress, and
settle down to a state of national paralysis, in
order that Wade might have money wherewith
to hire 30,000 policemen and build 2000 lunatic
asylums is too wildly grotesque. In any case
Wade is so stupendous a muddler and so incom-
petent a waster of money that it is quite useless
to endeavor to keep the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment solvent while he is at the head of affairs.
For the year which ended 30th June, 1900—the
last complete year of separatism—N.S.W. paid its
way out of a revenue of £10,086,186, and that
had to cover defence, cost of working the post and
telegraph departments, cost of collecting Customs
and Excise, cost of the census department, the
meteorological bureau, patents, trade marks, the
State’s share of the bill for the administration of
Papua, and many sundries for which the Common-
wealth now pays. For the year which ended
30th June, 1908, the N.S. W. State revenue was
£13,960.763, which, seeing that there was about
£2,000,000 less expenditure to meet owing to the
transfer of departments to the Commonwealth,
was. really equal, on the basis of the year 1900, to
about £15,960,763. And Wade got through that
money gaily ; and borrowed heavily to boot. The
scattering of about £5,900,000 of extra revenue
gives no trouble to Wade. It is an indisputable
fact that, even if N.S.W. receives back not one
penny of Customs and Excise revenue after
the Braddon clause ceases to be mandatory,
it will be, allowing for all the expenses of which it
has been relieved and of those—such as old-age
pensions—of which it will presently be relieved,
fully £3,000,000 a year better off than it was nine
years ago, and that despite the taxes which Wade
and Carruthers took off with so vast a flourish.
Since the Commonwealth took the most important
public affairs out of the hands of political imbeciles
of the Wade pattern, things have improved so
enormously that N.S.W. requires no Customs or
Excise money—or, rather, it would require none
if its financial management was only as respectable
as in the days when Lyne was State Premier.
* * * *
If the proposed insane scheme for the division
of the tariff revenue was carried out, it would, of
course, have certain advantages for people like
Wade. There would be no need to retrench upon
the 12 State Houses of Parliament, or to diminish
the glory of the six imported and wholly useless
State Governors. Wade would be able to take off
a few more taxes —he has already removed one or
two imposts, mostly to the profit of the rich. He
would have much money to spend, and the “ blew-
ing” of much money means votes; certainly
Wade never seems to have anything in particular
to show for his vast increase of expenditure, but
the mere shovelling out of money makes a man of
his calibre look bigger than he really is. He
would look bigger still by comparison with the
I ederal Ministers; the worst of them might be
ten times his mental size, but even a great man
can’t do much if he has no money to do it with.
So Wade would be able to point with pride and
with a great inflation of the waistcoat to the
financial results of “my” management as
compared with the very poor consequences of
the Federal fellow’s management. It would be
pleasant enough for Wade and some others, but
it isn’t worth Australia’s while to abandon its
transcontinental railways, its great scheme for
supplyingthepeoplewithland in the Northern Ter-
ritory, its defence (which will yet mean its very
existence), its Federal capital, its post and tele-
graph and telephone extensions, and many other
things, and to steadily cut down its old-age
pensions as the pensioners multiply and the pen-
sion fund doesn’t, merely that it may gratify the
stupendous vanity of a very small and exceedingly
incompetent State person.
Amid a considerable tangle of Fused and con-
fused finance these facts remain ; (1) That the
Tory papers, which are supposed to speak more or
less officially on behalf of the Fused Government,
are never tired of declaring that the Fused
Cabinet is in full sympathy with the de-
mands of the State Premiers; (2) that
Gregory Wade, as Premier of the most popu-
lous State, has rushed enthusiastically to the
from; to explain what these demands are;
and (3) that they really amount to the destruction
of the Commonwealth. If there is any relation at
all between the generous terms which the Fused
papers declare that the Fused Ministry is pre-
pared to offer to the State Premiers, and the
terms which Gregory Wade has demanded—
apparently after consultation with the Fused Joe
Cook—then anything and everything which the
Labor party can do in the way of obstruction in
order to drag the Fused herd before the electors
will be fully justified. The interests of Australia
come before everything else, and the interests of
Australia lie mostly in its empty spaces. If they
are not garrisoned with a strong white popula-
tion, and so far opened up by railways that it
will be possible to send men from the more
thickly-peopled parts of the country to help in
their defence, Australia might as well write itself
down as a failure and a lost cause. In the
interests of Australia 50 miles of either
transcontinental railway is of more account than
Gregory Wade—body and soul. The logical
course to follow after 1910 is for the Common-
wealth to make no more refunds whatsoever
to the States; to take over the State debts and
create a sinking fund for their repayment bj r the
adoption of the Canadian banking system ; to
impose a Federal income-tax and progressive land-
tax in order to supply money for the improve-
ment and development of Australia; and to
refuse even to know that there is such a person on
earth as Gregory Wade.
FISCAL-SINKING AND THE EVILS
THEREOF.
The Federal Labor party has now been sinking
the fiscal issue for nine years, and the N.S.W.
State Labor party for 18 years. As regards the
IS.S.W. State Labor party, that fact never mat-
tered much, and now it hardly matters at all; in
fact, the State party, with a dull, petrified,
elderly man for its leader, and a shifty, parish-
minded, anti-Federal and anti-Australian time-
server for its deputy-leader, matters very little in
any sense. Certainly it doesn’t matter nearly so
much as it should do, considering its numbers and
the undoubted capacity and honesty of some of its
members. But as regards the Federal Labor
party, the sinkage of the fiscal issue is a verv dif-
ferent affair. It causes people to lay against the
party two serious charges—lack of patriotism and
attempted suicide ; and if the sinking process is
maintained indefinitely the suicide is liable to
succeed one of these days.
* » * «
Why the. tariff was ever left an open question
has been a mystery from the first day of the Labor
party’s existence. The foolish deed was done in
order that the gate might not be closed against
Foreign-trade members ; but why the party ever
dreamed of admitting Foreign-trade members has
never been explained. Doubtless their admission
increased the number of men inside the Labor
fold, just as the admission of the Sepoys into the
Residency at Lucknow during the siege, or the
Boxers into the beleaguered legations at Pekin,
would have increased the number of persons in-
side ; but that sort of increase isn’t com-
monly regarded as an unmixed advantage.
The Foreign-trader in the Labor ranks was
always an anomaly and always a traitor. His
special craving was for the free admission of
the goods of any kind of nigger or other un-
desirable who was willing to work 12 hours per
day for a shilling or eighteenpence. If the Aus-
tralian workman, toiling eight hours per day for
Is. or so per hour, couldn’t produce goods at a
price which would enable them to sell in free and
open competition with the cheap article of the
nigger or other foreign undesirable, the only
theory that the Foreign-trade alleged Laborite
had to offer was that the Australian should take
less wages, or work longer hours, or else not work
at all but just starve along with his wife and
children. The Foreign-trader who called himself
a Laborite put the interests of the importer before
all other considerations. He was a lamentable
and dreadful specimen, and has been a drag on the
party ever since its inception.
9 * * *
It was in New South Wales that the idea
of sinking the fiscal issue originated, and it was
from that State that the bulk of the Foreign-
trade Laborites came in the days when these
weird specimens were numerous. And if New
South Wales now furnishes a more ■ remarkable
lesson than any other State re the advantages of
not sinking the tariff question, but rather keeping
it right on top and well to the front, then the last
semblance of excuse for fiscal-sinking is gone.
When N.S.W. joined the Commonwealth it was
in the “enjoyment” of the nearest approach to
Freetrade that it had ever possessed. The thing
wasn’t Freetrade, for there was never any such
event in N.S.W., but it was the best pretence
that tbeStatehad made. Since then, N.S.W. hag
been blessed with the highest Protection that
ever came its way; and, despite the loss and
devastation caused by the worst drought in recent
times—the visitation of 1902—the progress has
been marvellous. The following figures are
mostly from the N.S.W. Monthly Statistical
Bulletin, issued by the Freetrade and Tory
Government, which now looks after State affairs
and abuses the Commonwealth at Sydney :
1901. 1908, Increase.
Population .. .. 1,379,527 1,605,009 225,482
Increase during year.. 14,937 31,785 16,848
Imports .. .. £26,928,21S £37,462,087 £10,533,869
Exports .. .. 27,351,122 40,985,759 13,634,637
Shipping entered, tons 4,133,200 6,301,922 2,168,722
Shipping cleared, tons 4,274,101 6,411,705 2,137 604
Revenue .. .. £10,612,422 £13,960,763 £3.348,341
Bank Deposits.. .. 33,258,406 43,909,887 10;651,431
Coin in Banks.. .. 5,985,725 9,600,866 3,615,141
Savings Bank Deposits 11,808,710 17,849,384 6,040,674
Ditto per Inhabitant.. £8 11 4 £ll 5 7 £2 14 3
Railway Passengers... 29,261,324 47,487,030 18,225,706
1901. 1907.
Factory Employees .. 66,230 86,467 20,237
Output of Factories .. £24,393,471 £40,018,301 £15,624 830
Value of Plant.. ~ 5,860,725 9,043,772 3,183,047
As regards the last three items, it is unfortunate
that the information available doesn’t extend
beyond 1907. Still, even with this flaw it j s a
marvellous report. The first list of figures shows
the results achieved in about 110 year, of semi
Freetrade or fiscal-sinking, and even these results
were mostly owing to Protection—to the fact that
the Freetrade was only “semi.” The third
column shows the enormous progress made in
seven years of fairly honest Protection, and the
general verdict must be that one year of the new
policy is worth at least five of the old. The silly
gibe, “ What do the workers get out of all this ’’’
will doubtless crop up hereabouts, but it is neither
sense nor argument. If there is wealth in the
country, then, under the adult suffrage system it
is the fault of the workers if they don’t get their
share ; when there isn’t wealth in the country, all
the adult suffrage on earth won’t get them a share
of the thing that is missing..
C ■* *
Now something like a deadlock has come to
pass. The Protectionists constitute a large
majority of the House, but they are divided.
Some of them are in the nefarious Deaktn-Cook
coalition, where they are probably a minority,
and liable to be voted down by their Foreign-trade
allies. The rest are in the Labor party; they
form about nine-tenths of it, but they are para-
lysed as far as any extension of the tariff is con-
cerned by the insane fiscal-sinking policy. There
are still many additions and extensions of the tariff
required, but though both parties seem agreed
upon the preservation of the existing duties,
Fusion on one side and fiscal-sinking on the other
stand in the way of improvement.. And yet, when
one considers the enormous advances which
N.S.W. has made under the present imperfect
tariff it seems that only a traitor or an incapable
would leave the good work incomplete..
* * * *
Providence has delivered the Fusion into
Fisher’s hands, if Fisher’s party will only carry
the banner of High Protection to the front and
keep it there as a steady job. He will probably
win in any case j but that way his victory would
be overwhelming. The Protectionists constitute
the vast majority of the people. The bulk of them
recognise that the tariff is still very incomplete—
that id is too low in many places, and that it
leaves out many things that ought to be included..
They recognise that there is no hope of an im-
proved tariff from the Fusion ; but if there is no
hope from the Labor party either, they may just
as well vote for the Fusion as for Labor. Prob-
ably in many cases they will do neither, but put
up candidates of their own ; for it is absurd to
suppose that a party which represents the bulk of
the people can be set aside in this casual manner..
But there are thousands and thousands of Pro-
tectionist votes available to the Labor party if it
will only give up the fiscal-sinking craze and go
ahead. There is a great victory to be gained,
and there is nothing to be lost save possibly
the approval of ex-Attorney-General Hughes.
Mr. Hughes represents a waterside constituency,
and the men who drag imported goods off ships
and shovel exported goods on to them are his
strong supporters. During the last seven years
of Protection these men have had more work than
they even had before, but still Hughes can’t get
rid of his imported English idea that Protection
will spoil their job. And the job, and conse-
quently the goodwill, of the people who keep
him in Parliament, seem to loom very large in
the eye of W. M. Hughes —a great deal larger
than the interests of Australia in general. True,
he toiled furiously for the sake of the Yassberra
capital and for the establishment of the Federal
port at .lervis Bay, where it will be handy and
convenient to intercept Sydney’s southern trade ;
but that was probably an inadvertence, and any-
how it will be a while before the rival port begins
to eat into Sydney’s trade and to do Hughes’ water-
side constituent out of his employment. But
these are side issues. The main point is that
Hughes is commonly understood to be the evil
genius who keeps the Labor party from declaring
itself on one of the biggest and most urgent ques-
tions in all Australia’s politics. And if that is so,
he is a dead loss to the party and a grievous mis-
fortune to boot.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Notes, Wriggles, and the Payment of Old
Debts.
Though it wasn’t given the chance to even tell the
Commonwealth Parliament what its policy was,
the Labor Government produced one small reform.
When Fisher announced definitely that he was
going ahead with a Commonwealth note issue, the
banks, which had been pondering the matter for
some time, put their noddles together, and decided
that they would more or less recognise one
another’s notes all over Australasia, so that a man
holding, say. Bank of Australasia notes, nominally
payable in Melbourne, might hand them into,
say, the Union Bank at Kalgoorlie without ’being
mulct in exchange. It took a lot of argument to
persuade one or two of the banks to fall in with
this scheme, for they reckoned that people might
post notes from Sydney to Perth, and so do the
banks out of exchange on cheques, drafts, etc.;
but that difficulty was got over by the banks
reserving to themselves the right to charge
exchange if the other State’s notes were presented
in unreasonable quantities.” It was intended to
announce the change as a sort of knock-out blow
when Fisher’s Bill was introduced, or there-
abouts; but when Fisher went out the banks
decided to let the change come into effect, in case
the Government note idea should be revived later
on. But, however much it may affect Fisher’s
proposal, the banks’ “generosity ” will notin the
least affect Ihe Bulletin’s scheme for a Common-
wealth note issue, because under that scheme itisn’t
necessary that even one Government note should
go into circulation. The Bulletin’s idea—which
is simply the well-established and successful
Canadian plan extended to Australia—is that the
banks should keep two-fifths of their cash reserves
in Government notes; and they could issue them or
not as they pleased. This would give the Com-
monwealth command of about £10,000,000 in gold
—gold which is now lying in the banks’ vaults and
doing nothing else ; and after making ample pro-
vision for a reserve to meet demands for repay-
ment, the Government would have about
£8,000,000 with which to buy State securities in
London; and the interest on that £8,000,000,
put into other State securities, would
go on accumulating, so that there couldn’t be a
P'estion as to the safety of the banks’
£10,000,000. The Bulletin isn’t very much
concerned as to whether Government notes
go into circulation; and the banks’ new
departure makes it rather less concerned about
that than it was before. But the new departure
doesn t touch the scheme whereby money that
isnt earning anything for the banks should be
used to earn money for Australia, and thus 'gradu-
ally get this overloaded country out of pawn with-
out making one person a farthing the poorer. A
scheme that can pay off millions of debt out of


nothing is surely worth considering by a debt-
ridden country. And that, in a word or two, is
The Bulletin’s scheme in relation to the Com-
monwealth note issue.
*
Evans’ “ Only Remedy.”
Apparently Tasmania’s rejection of its ancient
sailorman and Premier, Captain Evans, has got
on that statesman’s nerves, and on June 13 he
upended himself before the Launceston Tourists’
Association and spoke his mind. (This paper here
stops to remark that it now thinks even less of
his mind than it did before.) Knowing that he is
to be superseded by another equally hopeless Tory,
Evans made no moan about his own case ; what
chiefly concerned him was his luckless State—the
poor little Apple Island. “There is no gleam of
light anywhere,” Evans wailed ; “ Tasmania
cannot carry on; she must either borrow or
shut up shop and let Victoria annex her.”
Considering that Evans has been for very nearly
five years the ruler of Tasmania—that he has run
the show longer than any other Tasmanian
Premier, barring old Fysh of the long beard, and
Edward Braddon of the old, picturesque coun-
tenance —one is naturally led to ask the captain
why such terrible things should be. Nature has
treated Tasmania well. It has a fertile soil. It
has such a splendid rainfall that every State on
the mainland would almost sell its soul for one
like it. Its wheat yield per acre, even with its
primitive methods, is twice that of Australia, and
in the matter of other crops things are much the
same. It has good facilities for bringing its crops
to market; the harbors are numerous, and there
are more miles of railway in proportion to the size
of the country than in any other State bar Vic-
toria. In proportion to population its mineral
wealth is greater than that of any other State of
the Commonwealth barring Westralia. Its splen-
did supply of water power qualifies it to be
the greatest and cheapest manufacturing State
of the Commonwealth. It never had a
costly war on its hands, as Maoriland
did. In fact, Tasmania ha 3 all the natural
opportunities that are required to make it, in pro-
portion to the numbers of its people, the richest
State in Australasia. And instead it is the
deadest. It is the State which loses population
most consistently. It is the State which most
people want to get away from. It has by far the
poorest revenue per head. It is the most illiterate
of the States. It gets the fewest immigrants. Its
public works pay worse than those of any other
State. It pays the lowest wages, and it has, in
proportion to its population, the fewest manufac-
tures. Above all, it is the only State where a
despairing Premier has got up on a public plat-
form to say that everything is up, that the show is
over, that things have come to a deadlock, that
the time has about arrived to give up the
ghost and be annexed. There is absolutely
nothing in the natural conditions of Tasmania
to account for this, and Federation doesn’t
account for it either, for Tasmania was the same
despairful place in the old Separatist days. In
fact, though its revenue per head is to-day the
smallest in the Commonwealth, and though ex-
Premier Evans says the financial situation is
really terrible, still last year’s income of £5 9s. 3d.
per inhabitant is distinctly better than the £5 ss.
per inhabitant of 1900, the last year of Separa-
tism. Therefore, as it is impossible to blame either
Nature or Federation, the only possible explana-
tion seems to be that Tasmania is the most Tory
State of the Commonwealth, and the one most
addicted to Premiers like Captain Evans. Tas-
mania has a profound reverence for Private Enter-
prise, for big estates, for vested interests, for old
forms and ancient traditions. It would be more
shocked than any other State at the idea of com-
pelling a lazy, antiquated proprietor to put his
empty lands and his neglected water-power to
some serious use. It still has doubts whether the
“lower orders ” should be educated, and as badly
educated people make poor farmers and slow,
antiquated, unprofitable manufacturers, Tasmania
lags behind. By comparison with it South Aus-
tralia is a desert, without water power, without
minerals, almost without rain, and apparently
without a chance in the race. Yet Democratic
government has done so much to make the best
of S.A.’s few opportunities that it is a land of pro-
sperity and hustle, while Tasmania is a corpse.
The first awakening of Tasmania will come with
the arrival of a huge Federal progressive land-tax.
If the tax is big enough to break up the great
estates, there will be an inrush of new settlers
with new ideas, and with them will come new
politicians, new manufacturers, new papers, and a
new order of things generally.
The High Court.
A LAWYER writes :
Up to date the best advocate that the doctrine of
Unification and Reconstruction has had has been the High
Court of Australia ; and the democracy of the Continent
will be, sooner or later, driven to adopt Unification and
Reconstruction, if only to escape the tyranny of that
august body. As long as the present form of Federation
lasts, the people of Australia are not supreme in their
own house ; and the Australian Parliament’s power for
good is strictly limited by this, after all, irresponsible
legal junta. So far it has been the champion of State
Rights, and as long as it is presided over by a gentleman
whose outlook is distinctly Tory, it will doubtless con-
tinue to be so. It is hardly possible to imagine anything
more absurd than the spectacle of a national Parliament
making laws which have been submitted to the test of a
general election, only to see them biffed out by the High
Court as being ultra vires. But that is what has hap-
pened over and over again in Australia.
The Australian Parliament legalised a trade union label.
Manufacturers who employed union labor only were
allowed to get credit for their action, the union affix-
ing a label to serve as a guarantee that the goods were
made by decently-paid workmen and under healthy
conditions. Such manufacturers deserve well of the
community. But the gang that did not want to
pay decent wages or manufacture under healthy
conditions took the matter to the High Court, and
tiie luminous gentlemen on the Bench spread much
gloom on the topic, and finally denounced it as unconsti-
tutional. This notwithstanding that under the Yankee
Constitution, of which our own is, unfortunately, a copy,
the union label is legal. In this matter the High Court,
which was founded to protect Australian interests, pro-
tected only' the sweater and robber of the poor.
Then the Australian Parliament passed a tariff in order
to protect the manufacturers of the country. It was
made heavy in many directions to foster local indus-
try 7 . The high duties were admittedly not imposed
for the purpose of raising revenue, but to encourage local
manufactures, and thereby stop the importation of eertain
foreign goods and abolish the customs revenue which their
importation would have Supplied. Having finished with the
Tariff, which was designed to protect Australian capital-
ists, Parliament proceeded to deal with Excise, not with
the object of raising revenue either, but to protect the
workmen engaged in industries that are protected by
the Tariff. As usual, someone interested in low wages
brought an appeal to the High Court against this New
Protection, and that remarkable body, headed by 7
Samuel Griffith, declared that as the Excise
was admittedly designed to protect workmen and
not to raise revenue, it was unconstitutional. As
a matter of cold logic and common-sense, if the Excise
duty, designed to protect the workmen of Mackay, the
harvester maker, was unconstitutional just because it
was planned to protect the workmen rather than to raise
revenue, then the duties which protect Mackay’s har-
vesters from the Harvester Trust are also unconstitutional,
because they were designed to protect the Australian
agricultural implement industry, and not to raise reve-
nue. In fact, they were so arranged that they throw
revenue away instead of bringing it in. However, the
amazing High Court didn’t notice this simple and obvious
point. „ . ,
Then, being alarmed at the growth of Trusts and com-
bines, and resolved that anything like the Cotton Trust of
Britain or the Oil Trust of the U.S.A. should be impos-
sible here, the Australian Parliament passed laws to deal
with these pernicious corporations. The High Court
vetoed the legislation.
The Australian Parliament, which has the power under
the Constitution to interfere in industrial disputes which
spread over more than one State, created a Commonwealth
Industrial Court, But, judging by some renmrks passed
the other day by the Chief Justice, that Court is going to
be wiped out very shortly. The brilliant lawyer practi-
cally laid it down that if a State industrial tribunal has
adjudicated in a dispute between employer and em-
ployees its decision is equal to an agreement. And
while there is legally an agreement between a
master and his operatives, there cannot be any
dispute between them, and therefore the Common-
wealth Court cannot intervene. The workmen of two
States may be on strike, the industrial machinery may be
paralysed, and there may be riot and martial law, yet in
reality there is only peace and amity between the em-
ployers and employees, because Wade’s and Murray s
Wages Boards have made ap award which is equal to an
agreement. The dispute, according to Samuel Griffith,
will then be, not between the employers and employees,
in which case the Federal Industrial Court might inter-
vene, but between the employees and the State Govern-
ment. It is beautiful law, no doubt, and if carried to its
logical conclusion, the exasperated strikers might decide,
as a test case, to slay an employer with whom they had
an “agreement.’’ Considering the fact that there was,
according to Chief Justice Griffith, absolute peace
between them and the defunct boss, it would be impos-
sible to show a motive for the crime, and it would pro-
bably have to be set down as accidental death.
Apparently there is only one way of escape from this
weird variety of law. That is to abolish the present
form of Federation, and unify the Continent under the
control of the Australian Parliament. Then the Aus-
tralian Parliament can create fresh provincial parlia-
ments each of a single chamber, deriving all their
authority from the Australian Parliament and subject to
its veto. Under these new conditions there would be no
necessity for the High Court as an interpreter of the
Constitution. Parliament would be its own interpreter
as it is in Britain and France and elsewhere.
Hello, Quick!
Even if John Quick, of the Post Office, were to
borrow £20,000,000, how is that going to improve
the telephone service, over which most of the row
with regard to his Department is now being
made? It is admitted that the “chaos” isn’t to
any extent worth mentioning the fault of the
equipment; it springs simply from three causes
—(1) The telephone is as yet a very imperfect
machine at best; (2) the attendants are horribly
over-worked ; and (3) a vast number of those who
use the lines are fools of various degrees of foolish-
ness. Quick might improve matters for the moment
by using some of his £2,000,000, or £20,000,000, or
whatever it may be, in paying the wage's of more
telephone attendants; but possibly even he
wouldn’t risk turning loan money to such a pur-
pose as that. Yet if he uses it to add to the num-
ber of telephone subscribers, by providing them
with cheaper services, then instead of getting over
the trouble he will simply be adding to it. For
years past the man in the tram-car (who, of
course, knows all about it) has been saying that,
though the charges might be low, it would pay
the Department all right later on when the
low rates snared three times as many sub-
scribers. The man in the tram-car knows
that that is what happens in the butchering,
or the gas-selling, or the newspaper line—the
more people the butcher has to serve on a round,
the cheaper he can afford to sell the sausage and
the bullpck’s gizzard. The tram-car cacklers have
assumed that it is exactly the same with the tele-
phone service ; and that is just the fundamental
error in the whole business, and the place where
the cacklers about “ chaos,” etc., fall in. When
there are 200 subscribers and the 201st comes
along, it means not simply that there is one more
to talk to the 200, but that there is one more for
the whole 200 to talk to. When a second 200 get
on, it means not simply 200 people to talk to one
another, but the first 200 will now have
themselves and another 200 to talk to. And 200
times 200 are 40,000. So, whereas the job of
attending to the first 200 when there were only 200
was simple, the job of attending to them when
the second 200 are added becomes enormously
more difficult. Every new subscriber thus reduces
the average number of subscribers to whom an
attendant can attend; consequently, in a big
office where there isn’t any waste time, the
greater the number of subscribers the greater the
cost of the attendance per subscriber. And, as
remarked before, since the opposite happens
in the butchering and most other businesses,
there has been a lot of wild cackle on this
subject, and a great many undeserved bricks have
been thrown. The first thing to do is to find out
if the telephones pay; then, if they don’t pay,
the next is to find what is the deficit; and if
there is a deficit, then rates must go up. Quick
evidently wants to dodge that by passing the bill
on to the baby called Posterity, because the baby
can’t write indignant letters to the papers as the
Fat merchant can, and, besides, he hasn’t got a
vote yet. But even if Quick dues pass the bill on
to the baby he won’t get over the trouble perma-
nently. In fact, if something is costing £2, and
Quick is only getting £1 for it, there are only
two ways in which Quick can get over the
trouble. One is to knock off supplying the goods
altogether; the other is to charge the £2. He
won’t even start to get over his difficulty by con-
tinuing to charge £1 and giving his IO U for
the balance.
The Growth, of Land Values.
According to a recent statement by Lands
Minister Mackenzie, who is a slow-going person,
and not given to wild assertions save when he is
denouncing “Socialism,” the average price of
country soil in Victoria has increased 25 per cent,
in the last two years. And there is reason to
believe that the rise is still going on. Yet two
years ago. before the jump in prices to which
Mackenzie alludes, Victorian land was already
the dearest in Australasia. There has been no
increase of settlement to account for the rise; it
is simply that the disease which made land
absurdly dear is following its usual and natural
course, and making land still dearer. The huge
areas which the great land-sharks are allowed to
keep lying almost idle and wholly unpeopled
create a land famine. The insane conduct of
bygone Governments in leasing all the great
areas of State land to rich people, for terms so
lengthy that they don’t expire till the year 1920-
leasing them for about nothing a year (and even
that is often not collected) with the right of pur-
chase at a few shillings an acre—has completed the
famine. (This swindle is so bad that in one single
district—Victoria Valley—lB4,soo acres are leased
in five huge areas to five rich men at a rental of
£237 per annum.) And the artificial famine
makes famine prices, hence Victoria enjoyed the
spectacle the other day of an estate being offered
to the Bent Government at £4O per acre; actu-
ally bought by the Bent Government for over
£22 10s. per acre ; and then the best portions of ic
being valued by the Closer Settlement Board as
worth, for actual purposes of agriculture, £9 10s.
per acre. It is a curiously rotten set of circum-
stances which, in an almost empty State, makes
land so dear that people can hardly afford to grow
anything on it. If a bit of land is valued at £lO
an acre, a man can buy it and grow £1
worth of vegetables on it—£l worth, that is,
per acre over and above cost of cultivation. The
return means 10 per cent, on his investment, and
leaves a margin for eventualities. But when the
same land is valued at £5O an acre no one grows
anything on it. The £1 worth of vegetables, over
and above expenses, would only mean 2 per cent,
per annum, and no sane agriculturist invests in
land to yield him 2 per cent, when he can get 3|
per cent, in Government securities. So land in
Victoria has increased 25 per cent, in value in two
years, and the area under cultivation in 1908 was
less than in 1907 and less than in 1904, The year
1904 showed 3,389,069 acres under crop in Victoria;
1908 showed only 3,232,523 acres. And as the
silly, greedy, selfish, bloated Rich Landlords push
up the paper value of land by keeping it off
the market, Victorian agriculture will still
diminish. When the Landlords have pushed
the paper value of land up high enough agri-
culture will vanish. Then, presumably, the
bogus paper Values will come down with
a yell and a howl and a rush from £7O an acre to
about £l, and the Rich Landlord will deservedly
end his days in the Benevolent Asylum. Agri-
culture isn’t the only thing in Victoria that is
suffering through the enormous bogus prices of
land. The area under sown grasses was less in
1908 than in 1907; apparently some of the land
had become so costly that it was allowed to revert
back to the wild or bush state. The outputof butter
and cheese has slumped enormously; seemingly
the land is growing so expensive that a cow can
no longer afford to stand on it. It is a curious
state of paralysis, and there are apparently only
two possible endings—either the Federal Parlia-
ment will interfere with a huge progressive land-
tax and bring land Values down with a run to a
figure which represents the actual value of
the soil; or else values will be allowed to keep
going up till the monopolist falls off the top of
them and deservedly breaks his villainous neck.
He has to some extent done that before, but he
apparently learned no leSson thereby. He is going
on the old road, and it seems that he has quite
forgotten where that old road leads to. The blight
or Stoppage that comes of enormously inflated
land values has its best example in the unoccupied
city allotment during boom time. The land
agent’s board or advertisement explains that this
wholly desirable property is for sale at, say, £lOO
per foot frontage. It is so expensive that no one
buys it or builds on it; if the price were £3O a
foot it might be built on and made reproductive ;
but it is so beastly valuable that no one
does anything with it. Also, no one grows
vegetables on it ; if the price were £lO
an acre, people would grow things on it and
make it pay dividends, but the absurdity of
growing vegetables to the value of £3 per acre per
annum on land valued at £lOO per foot is too
obvious to be worth mentioning. The return
wouldn’t represent more than a copper per cent,
per annum. So because the land is so valuable it
brings in nothing; it grows nothing except bashed
kerosene tins and two-up schools ; and it is a dead
loss in rates and taxes—in fact, its excessive
value makes it a bigger dead loss. And when
these enormously valuable allotments multiply
beyond a certain point, the boom bubble bursts,
and when it has wholly and completely burst, the
enormously valuable allotment can hardly be
given away as a present. The increase in Vic-
torian city land values brought about that sort of
crash in 1893. And the gigantic inflation of
Victorian country land values is apparently pre-
paring the same sort of trouble to day.
♦
The Mulatto of Europe.
Some extracts from an article in a recent San
Francisco Argonaut, dealing with the condition
of Portugal:—
In spite of a rigorous censorship of both telegrams and
letters, it is evident that Portugal has fallen completely
under the domination of the men who killed the King in
order that their nefarious policies might remain un-
checked. The condition of the boy king and of the queen
mother is pitiable in the extreme, comparable only with
that of Louis XVI. of France after the fall of the Bastile.
They are virtually prisoners in the palace, and subject to
all the insult that a besotted populace can throw upon
them. The murderers of King Carlos are well known,
but no attempt has been made to bring them to justice,
indeed they are feted and acclaimed. When the King
attended the requiem mass in memory of his father and
of his brother there was a rival celebration at the same
hour around the graves of the two assassins who were
killed upon the fatal day a year ago, and this shameful
ceremony was vastly the larger and the more popular of
the two. While the murderers themselves have
been unpunished, the one man who stood between
them and their victims has been visited with every mark
of public displeasure. Lieutenant Francksco Figuiera
defended the King with extraordinary courage, killing
one if not both of the dead regicides, but so far from
rewarding his fidelity, it was actually proposed to try
him for his life, and although this was not done, the
Queen was compelled to discharge him from her service.
The municipal council of Lisbon has decreed that all
royal demonstrations must cease, in order that the people
may not be “annoyed,” and neither the King nor his
mother is allowed to appear in public without effacing all
external marks of rank.
Another catastrophe must of course come, and it must,
come soon. If this were an honest struggle betweeni
Monarchy and Republicanism, we should know where to.
place our sympathies. But it is not an honest struggle.
The men who murdered King Carlos and who are now in
control of the government are a mere pack of thieving
wolves who use the name of Republicanism to cajole a
wholly illiterate people, and who care nothing for any
•particular form of government so long as they are left
unmolested to plunder the public treasury. The King is
said to be dying of chagrin and apprehension.
To judge the Portuguese by the standards of other
nations will lead to hopeless miscalculation. Eighty per
cent, of the whole population are illiterate, without
moral sense, lazy and improvident. There ivas a time
when the negroes of Lisbon were more numerous than the
whites, and that this is not now the case is due to the fact
that the colored elements have been absorbed through inter-
marriage, diffusing their racial defects throughout the
country.
In short. Portugal is what a quantity of shameful
and horrible preachers and a few shameless and
horrible politicians would fain make Australia—
another Havti. The curse of color admixture has
fallen heavily on the Latin peoples through
following the doctrine of which Bruce Smith is
the exponent to-day. The Italian was once the
greatest white man on earth, but commerce with
Africa, intermarriage with his own African sub-
jects, and the wholesale introduction of colored
slaves inadehim, in Southern Italy at least, theshift-
less, unsatisfactory being that he is to-day. The
curse of mixed blood fell on the Spaniard in his
own country, and he deteriorated. The Portu-
guese got it in the worst form of all, and nothing
but the extirpation of the race would be
likely to clean up that corner of Europe again.
All the places where the white man has been written
down as a comparative failure—as unreliable, un-
progressive, incapable of any sustained or orderly
system of self-government—are places where the
colored taunt has infected the Caucasian blood.
Spain, Portugal, Cuba, Hayti, San Domingo,
Porto Rico, the Philippines, all the great mass of
Central and South American republics whose
governments and revolutions and ragged comic-
opera armies are the world’s jest—their incapacity
arises from the same curse. If Mexico, Argen-
tina and Chili stand out a little above the ruck,
it is only because they have kept their white
blood a shade cleaner than some of their neigh-
bors. The Southern States of the U.S. only save
themselves from absolute savagery by excluding the
African and the mulatto from all real power, and by
making the most strenuous efforts to prevent
further deterioration of the white blood, even to
the extent of making mixed marriages heavily
punishable by law. The world is strewn with
warnings to the white nations to keep white at
any and every cost, and as if the old warnings
were insufficient, Natal is just now busy supplying
a new one. In fact, excepting for Central and
Northern Europe, North America above Mason
and Dixon’s line, Australia and Maoriland, the
world is almost all one vast warning to the same
effect.
+
Boots and Wages.
A witness in a Sydney Industrial Court case told
Judge Hetdon, the other day, that “cheap boots
made in Victoria by boy labor competed unfairly
with the manufacturing industry in N. S. Wales”;
and the Sydney provincialists, who mistake their
malady for patriotism, turned their faces towards
the Murray and screeched “ Yah !” If what was
told to the Court were true, it would simply be an
argument in favor of putting the matters of wages
and working conditions under Commonwealth con-
trol ; but in this case it happens that the brick
aimed at Victoria falls against a cast-iron defence,
and does no damage one way or the other. For
when that State set out to put a head on the
sweating business, bootmaking was one of the four
industries first attacked. That was in 1896,-and
the adult male minimum wage was then fixed at
365. per week of 48 hours. In 1898 it was raised
to 425., in 1903 to 455., and last year to 48s. The
20s. first fixed for female adults has since been
raised to 21s. Immediately before the minimum
wage was first fixed, the combined average adultj.
The Modern Phantom Ship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, we love to read the legends
Of the ancient sailor bloke.
With his pigtail, and his cutlass,
And his heart of solid oak :
We delight in tales of “ boarders
Not the sort who vainly gnash
Worn-out molars in their efforts
To disintegrate their hash —
But those buccaneering tars who
Brought the Spaniard to his knees,
When yard-arms were lashed together,
And when Drake was on the seas—
For, to sack a Spanish city
Was quite etiquette, you know,
For a fashionable pirate
Of three hundred years ago.
But this buccaneering person,
Though his pluck was hard to beat.
Was as full of superstition
As an egg is full of meat,
And the sweat of terror gathered
On his corrugated brow
If he saw the Flying Dutchman
Looming large upon his bow.
Now, though VANDERnECKEN’s vessel —
Once a harbinger of woe —
Has retreated to the limbo
Where most superstitions go,
And the Dutchman, in his haven,
’Mid the shadows of the p ist,
Doesn’t wreck the nervous system
Of the man before the mast.
Still (and p’raps it’s just as well to
Give the modern tar the tip)
There’s another phantom vessel
Gettin’ ready on the slip—
One more horror to be added
To the terrors of the seas,
Quite transcending all the bogies
Which are born of supper cheese —
And the Dutchman won’t be in,
As a spook of high de'gree,
When Australia’s Phantom Dreadnought
Gets her keel upon the sea.
She’s a dandy craft, for certain,
Built of promises and hopes ;
She’ll have strings of lies for cordage,
And for cables and for ropes.
She will be, it’s been asserted,
Quite the queerest ship that floats,
For her flags and all her ensigns
Will be promissory notes.
If they jerk her signal-halyards
As she wallows in the seas,
I O U’s, instead of bunting,
Will be flapping in the breeze !
Then—well, just by way of balhist—
We have recently been told,
She’ll have quite a heavy mortgage
Under hatches in her hold ;
And as, drunkenly, she wobbles
On each billow’s crested ridge,
Moss and Cohen will be strutting —
- “In possession”—on her bridge.
She’ll be christened the Insolvent,
For it’s positively true
She’ll be built of money borrowed
From the European Jew,
And the ocean-going public
Will be bound to get a shock
When this grim and grisly Phantom
Has been floated out of dock.
If the tars of Drake and Hawkins
Had encountered such a ship
They’d have got the hump, the horrors,
And the palsy, and the pip,
And all other spooks and bogies
Can go home and go to sleep
When the battleship Insolvent
Takes to ploughin’ up the deep.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembia, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
V FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
We are Agents for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
Enquire for the CINEPHONE, for Musical Pictures.
HARRINGTONS LTD.
386 Ceorg-e Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Oollins St., Melbourne ; 9S Queen St., Brisbane.
The collapse of the Englishmen in the
second innings of the second Test would imply
that they had for the moment been seduced from
their allegiance to the right brand. The Austra-
lians would make no such mistake, and would
have the valuable assistance of D.C.L. Whisky
to the good. The vim and wisdom inspired by
D.C.L., the scholarly brand, are ever decisive
factors in the achievement of victory.*
rate of pay was 235. 2d. ; last year the average
was 50s. 2d. for 1896 adult males and 225. 4d. for
826 adult females—a combined average of 41s. Bd.
for 2722 adult bootmakers. According to
the N.S.W. Director of Statistics, the Ma
State last year paid 481 adult bootmakers
445. 9d. per week each ; 181 piece-workers,
325. 3d. per week; 112 operators, 495. Bd.,
and 110 general workers, 355. 7d. ; while of
female adults 310 machinists averaged 19s. 2d.
each ; 63 boot-upper makers, 18s. each ; and 59
fitters, 18s. 3d. each—an average wage of 345. 2d.
for 1316 adult workers. As to boy labor, the
Victorian manufacturer may legally have as many
bound apprentices as he chooses ; but practically
he has very few, for the present specialised con-
dition of the bootmaking trade offers no entice-
ment to an employer to teach apprentices the
whole trade. As to improvers, the law allows him
only one such male to every three journeymen,
and two girl improvers to every adult female.
From which it will be perceived that if these 632,
or less, boys are flooding the Sydney market, they
must be exceptionally swift workers ; so swift, in
fact, that they would at once demand the mini-
mum wage from rival employers, and get it.
A significant point about the whole pitiful
wail is that no complaint was ever made
about the cheap labor of Victoria in the
days when it was comparatively cheap, and when
.Via was enjoying the blessings of Foreign-trade.
It is only now that Victorian wages have been
raised to nearly double the old rate that this
lamentation is made about the ruinous effects of
cheap labor. Of course, the point the witness
overlooked, or the point he would not look at, was
the fact that Victoria, by adequately protecting
its bootmaking industry, by paying in recent
years a superior rate of wages and exceptional
wages for special talent, and by employing costly
but effective machinery, has got its bootmaking
industry to such a state of efficiency that it beats
its younger competitors in the State where
Freetrade was a fetich for so many foolish years.
Still, the weepful witness in Sydney has done the
Commonwealth one service; he has stressed the
fact that Protection and high wages mean, not
dearness and disaster, but cheapness and
efficiency—the cheapness and efficiency which
the outside competitor naturally finds extremely
awkward until he can reach the same point by the
same means.
+
EigMpence Halfpenny a Day.
There are 110 nurses in Sydney’s “greatest”
hospital, the Prince Alfred, and 60 of these have
to sleep in the wards. The other 50, most likely,
sleep three or four or five in a room, and perhaps
two in a bed. Nothing more crowded than this
has been known since the benevolent party of
ancient days used to hide the prophets by fifties
in caves. People are never tired of saying that
the public owes a great deal to nurses. Medical
men—men like Professor Osler, for instance—
reckon that the improvement in nursing is one of
the greatest advances made in the profession, and
that a good nurse is at least equal in value to a
good physician or surgeon. And this is the way
the hospitals treat these highly responsible agents
of theirs. They pay them in the beginning an
average of a day ; and after four years’ hard
work their services are valued at 2s. ljd. If a
nurse is then fortunate enough to become a
“ sister ” _ she is paid nearly 4s. a day,
and a Senior “sister” is rolling in wealth on
4s. 7d. But if she stops as head nurse she only
gets 2s. lOd. a day. If this isn’t sweating, what
is it? Nurses’ hours run to 14 or 15 out of the 24,
with short intervals for meals and nominally a
couple of hours off ; but some days they have to
spend their leave in attending lectures or pre-
paring for them. In the United States—or some
parts of the States—they do things better. There
nurses have an eight hours day—which is quite
long enough, considering the nature and the great
responsibility of their work. Of course, the
excuse in the Australian hospitals is that they
haven’t got enough money to pay a decent wage
to the nurses they employ, or to get the more
nurses that are urgently needed. Not money
enough ! —and the State that says that, or is
alleged to say that, is the State which is
prepared to throw a million or more into the
purchase of a Dreadnought! Not money enough
—it is nonsense, and the public knows it.
The State has the money ; but the people prefer
to spend it on Dreadnoughts or on football, or to
drop it into the hat of the loud-mouthed Yankee
“evangelist.” The hospitals are the public’s;
they belong to those very people who are horri-
fied at sweating by private employers. But in
their own capacity as employers the people have
no qualms about being conscienceless sweaters
themselves. They aim the brick at the private
malefactor when they ought to throw it high in
the air and then thoughtfully stand underneath
and wait for the thing to come down.
O.
The S. M. Herald the other day printed two
paragraphs which, taken together, show what
mad business a Freetrade country does and is
proud of. The world’s coal supply is getting
shorter and shorter, and every wise country with
an eye to the future is hoarding what it has, and
is poaching wherever it can on somebody else’s
stores of the combustible. Great Britain, in
accordance with its Freetrade ideas, invites them
all to come and poach ; wherefore in 1907 its coal
output compared with that of some other
countries in this way :
United Kingdom .. 267,831,000 tons
Germany 140,855,000 ~
United States .. .. 428,836,000 ~
The other S. M. Herald paragraph showed that,
though the United States only used up about 70
per cent, more coal than Great Britain, it pro-
duced three times more iron; and Germany,
which only used up about half as much coal, pro-
duced nearly twice as much iron. Thus Britain
digs up the coal that it will want badly by and
bye, and ships it off for other people to use ; and
the other people use it and thank Heaven for
sending them a country fool enough to help them
build up their industries with its raw products—
raw products, moreover, of which the fool country
has only got a limited quantity itself.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sweet Kittyßellairs.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Rescue.”
Criterion “Struck Oil."
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WRICK.
Theatre Royal “ The Hypocrites.”
Her Majesty’s “ The King of Cadonia.”
King’s “White Australia.”
Princess’s “A Royal Divorce.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenaeum The Scarlet Troubadours.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
“Sweet Kitty Bellairs” arrived at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night last, amid
much enthusiasm. The play is poor stuff. There
is a stock recipe for such pieces. The heroine,
whether she be 'French, American or Georgian-
English, always has trouble over the bestowal of
her affections. She is always guilty—for
•love’s sweet sake —of certain indiscretions,
and always in the resulting unpleasantness
a band, more or less extensive, of wooden-
headed male adorers stands to her through thick
and thin; and, finally, she always ranges
up by the man of her choice with a beatific smile
in the neighborhood of the final curtain. This
sort of heroine is a most sprightly creature, full of
wise and witty saws, and wondrously fair and
graceful—a combination of the most alluring
qualities, mental and physical, of George Sand
and Fanny Dango. She mostly has an antithesis
—a sneering hussy who comes in handy for pur-
poses of poetic justice at the end of the play, also
to be scored off smartly during the progress of it.
“ Sweet Kitty Bellairs” is indifferent, not merely
because of its palpably faulty construction,
but because it is, so to speak, a barren play. There
is nothing ‘Go” it, as the Yankees say. It lacks
character. It tells no particular story. All it
provides is a series of incidents, most of which are
inconceivable in the 18th, or any other century.
It hasn’t a vestige of that asset which we indicate
by the over-worked word “ atmosphere.” Its
people are the familiar Sheridan people;
that is to say, they wear the same clothes
and betray the same dogged resolve to say
bright and gallant things. It is unlikely that
there ever was any considerable number of
these folks in old Bath, or anywhere else.
The writer cheerfully defies any honest onlooker
at Her Majesty’s to say that he or she gets away
for a moment from the conviction that Lord
Yerney, Sir Jasper, Captain Spicer and the rest
of them are mere masqueraders ; or ever escapes
the feeling that Mistress Kitty is a modern
charmer, inefficiently disguised.
* -Jr * *
The opening scene is at Prideaux Hall,
Bath, and a more gracious stage picture than the
old red-brick building, with its summer-house and
yew hedges, and its rich background of trees and
fields and distant city, it were hard to conceive.
Mistress Kitty—idol of the Inniskillings and
affluent Irish widow—flirts toilsomely with Lieut.
Lord Verney. The young man loves her, but is
rendered dumb by shyness. When the duel,
which was to the 18th century officer what polo
is to the present day blood-spiller, looms, Kitty
and Lady Standish (whose husband is one of the
parties to the prospective row) visit the lodgings
of Yerney (who is the other party) to plead for
peace. In due course the unworthy machinations
of Captain Spicer cause the presence of at least
one concealed female, behind the curtains of
Verney’s bed, to become known to the roystering
officers of the 51st and Inniskillings. By further
machinations, Sir Jasper Standish, who is pre-
sent, is convinced that it is his wife who is in
hiding. And here Kitty steps out and takes th®
blame on her own fair shoulders. Of course, th e
self-sacrificing little lady is cut by th“
women at the (Regimental Ball the nex c
night, and equally, of course, she fairly tear s
the prudish hypocrites to pieces, dialectically
speaking. Act IV. brings explanations, a reha-
bilitated character for Kitty, a definite matri-
monial understanding with the diffident Yerney,
and humiliation for the cat tribe.
As Kitty, Miss Nellie Stewart seems to
rely for success more on her attractive and
vivacious personality that on her art. There
are no fine shades about the comedy methods
she employs. When a point has to be made, she
sees that it reaches the uttermost limits of the
house, and it is delivered in a brogue that would
do credit to one of Thackeray’s garrison hacks.
This forcing of the note jars if we are to
try to regard Kitty as a female of quality;
but it is laughter-compelling, and inasmuch
as the lines aren’t meritorious enough
to make good without strong emphasis,
the method is probably sound business. The
MISTRESS
KITTY
( Nellie
Stewart) in
“ Kitty
Bellairs, ”
at Her
Majesty’s,
Sydney.
actress is at her best in emotional passages, and
she “holds up” the tedious bedroom scene with
her shocked Inniskilling worshippers with notable
skill. Lady Standish (Miss Rosslyn Yane) is
another Bath matron whose extreme energy
strikes the writer as out of the dainty Watteau
picture in which she moves. Miss Madeleine
LORD VERNEY
(Langthorne
Burton) at
four o'clock
in the morn-
ing. “Kitty
Bellairs,”
at Her
Majesty’s,
Sydney.
Meredith makes an alluring ex-belle of Lady Bab
Flyte. The Verney of Langliorne Burton is a
seemly-looking, albeit stagey, young warrior;
Claude King suggests the jealous rage of Standish
convincingly ; and Templer Powell is sufficiently
offensive as Captain Spicer. There are a host of
capably filled minor parts, and the mounting and
staging are exquisite.
** * *
“The Fatal Wedding ” dissolves and fades
away from Sydney Criterion after Friday next,
and on Saturday “Struck Oil ” suffers yet another
revival. Oil will be struck for not less than six
nights.
** * &
“The Great Rescue” continues to occur
nightly at Sydney Royal. It is a deed of heroism
that is well worth the admission fee asked by
those who participate in it. The opportunity to
view a dauntless act of this class on a “three,
two and one ” basis is infrequent, and should be
seized by all discriminating battlers at the theatri-
cal bargain-counter.
* * *
The chief item of interest at Sydney
Palace just now is the Pathe Freres film of “ The
Buffoon,” an adaptation from Victor Hugo’s “ Le
Roi S’amuse,” which is a grim tale of how a
prince amused himself, first by killing the
daughter of his fool, and then by watching how
the father would take the sight of his girl’s
dead body. It was a depraved brand of
psychology that got the prince into trouble. The
jester quietly placed poison in the royal wine.
The prince took a long drink, noticed that his
wine had lost its bush, and then, realising from
the jester’s face what had happened, drew his
sword to avenge himself. Naturally a poisoned
prince had no chance with a fleet-footed jester.
The facial, expression is carried to the extreme of
high art, and is wonderful to see; but, all the
same, it is to be regretted that the brothers Pathe
have chosen such a lot of gruesome subjects. The
“Grandfather” of the previous week was justified,
inasmuch as it did something to impress upon a
thoughtless people what sort of horrors happen
when a country is invaded. But, as the Austra-
lians are never likely to resort to a form of govern-
ment in which princes keep jesters and kill
their daughters for amusement, this latest pro-
duction is somewhat of a wasted misery. Another
interesting film is that showing the recent Corpus
Christi procession at Manly (Sydney), and the
waving of the draperies in the fierce gale of that
windy Sunday makes a fine effect.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum the audience is being
treated to a fairly faithful exposition of the
disadvantages of having railways built and con-
trolled by Private Enterprise. The film is entitled,
“The Road to Love,” and the villainy of Yankee
railroad magnatesis shown in Andersoniansetting,.
The title of “ The Geisha at Home” raises blushful
expectations; but the film moves on and shows only
the better side of the little brown woman’s life as
a professional entertainer. It is a film that is
calculated to cause the average female resident of
Surry Hills to rush off to old Japan, dye her skin,
train her eyes to almond shape, and wear two
large bows in front of her kimona. The vagaries of
another film, “Lunatics in Power,” seems familiar,
and suggests that somebody has been photographing
N.S.W. Premier Wade and his party in fancy
dress. The representation of the old carved
temple at Kandy (Ceylon) is a fine bit of work,
and supplies valuable evidence that in Ceylon it
is better to be born a sacred elephant than a
Cingalese; just as in London, it were better to be
a poodle in the home of a lady of high degree than
one of the sovereign people in Whitechapel.
** * *
The variety business is gradually becoming
the circus. The time was when the juggler, the
acrobat and the animal-trainer kept to the saw-
dust ring and the tent; nowadays, the man with
the red nose and the purple jokes has to assail his
public in front of a drop-scene, whilst the stage-
hands behind are clearing away the props of the
tiger act and making ready for the elephants’ per-
formance. (These animals have not yet got into
the theatre, but it is only a matter of time before
they will arrive and trample heavily on the
comedian.) Of the two new turns at Sydney
Tivoli, one is a remarkable dog act, and the other
an acrobatic act performed by humans. The dogs
do numerous things which Providence —or its
Hog Department—plainly never intended them
to do. However, the patience of the superbly
garbed traineress seems to have overcome all diffi-
culties, and an amazing and money-making act is
the result. The Three Laurels —who supply the
human athletics—are well up to the level of other
performers of the kind, and have sufficient origin-
ality and humor to keep an edge on the attention
of the audience.
** * *
Adelaide Royal has finished with Nellie
Stewart’s idealisation of that charmingly correct
Nell Gwynne who, having vanquished all her
enemies, said “Good Night ”• to the monarch and
went home alone. And now the little house is
full of gunpowder and wrecked furniture, and Mr.
Brown, of Essex, is being shot on his own lawn
nightly. Admiral Bosanquet attended on the
opening night, and a packed house became wildly
enthusiastic —though possibly not always in the
places the author intended. The “ happy ending”
is a glaring instance of the subordination of Art
and the in-subordination of the box-office. The
curtain-raiser seems to be Grand Guignol mas-
querading as Belgravia. Its short spasms of horror
have rather puzzled Adelaide, which is used to
having its melodrama in at least four long acts.
The month-long competitions of cash-amateurs at
Unley have drawn to a successful close; West’s
pictures have had to vacate the Town Hall while
Mayor Johnson entertains; and Spencer’s pic-
tures are hard at work catching Adelaide as it
lives, and reproducing football scenes at the Tivoli
nightly.
* -* * *
“The King of Cadonia,” at the close of
its first week at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) gives pro-
mise of a prosperous career. If all’s well that ends
well the new “romantic” musical play is more
than a merely satisfactory entertainment, for the
second act is stronger than the first, and the
finale is a gorgeous display of satin gowns, at
about 9s. lljd. per yard. The old-established
firm of J. 0. Williamson and Go. invites special
attention to the quality of the goods in this clos-
ing tableau. It is a dream of fair costumes, with
ladies in attendance, all of whom have come
downstairs, and brought their tails behind
them. One feels that his Majesty is going to
have a good time. The spectacle is a fair
knock-out for the picturesque President of the
Anti-King League, whobecomes suddenly suffused
with loyalty to the reigning monarch, and goes off
to tell the" people that Cadonia has at length
achieved a proper head for its drapery depart-
ment. Which is especially gratifying to Bert
Gilbert, the comic Heir Apparent, because it
relieves him of any further dread of being called
upon to wear the crown. With this awful possi-
bility off his mind, he can return to his modest
dukedom and resume gardening operations as
before.
* * * *
All the same, Bert Gilbert is the King of
Cadonia as regards the performance at Her
Majesty’s. He has the wild fat part, which
suits him. Amidst a multitude of com-
paratively serious people Gilbert is the Joke
—just as much Joke as he can make of him-
self. Victor Prince, as the podgy soldier Bran,
ought to be humorous likewise. He has the
stereotyped comic servant part (that always fell
to poor George Lauri in days of yore), whilst
Miss Lottie Sargent is the pert young woman who
toys with his affections. But Victor Prince is
much too tall and laborious for his frivolous job,
and when the new soubrette refers to her adorer
as “a scrubby little thing,” one feels that he
wasn’t born to his position. The present writer,
being of a sympathetic nature, weeps for the mis-
placed mummer. For the other principals, they
are all more or less dignified and ornamental.
Frank Greene, Arthur Appleby, Ivy Scott, Susie
Vaughan, and the hefty Bathurst—whose fellow
members of the Anti-King League (unnamed on the
bill) are a very job lot of rebels. The prima-
donna, Miss Dorothy Court, is a neat, unbending
sentimentalist, and Herbert Clayton seems
to be inspired by the first two lines of the
National Anthem when at last he assumes his
garb of royalty. Even in the first act he nearly
triumphs over his clothes, although they are much
too suggestive of Mr. ’Enery ’Awkins. His
manners are always good. Manners make the
man —but, ah ! the tailor, the sartorial artist,
makes the king. “Cadonia” will be more liked
for its trappings and its backbone of human
interest—the interpolated Apache Dance is
humanly interesting—than for its music, The
orchestra is still overloud, and the soloists lack
vociferousness. Some of their lines of recitative
are lost in the hurly-burly. And granting that
the music is all very well in its way, there are
moments when one wishes its way were elsewhere.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal, the management is
inviting the bishops and clergy of various de-
nominations to come along and see “The
Hypocrites ” on the nod, so as to settle the dis-
putes of “ diverse opinions ” as to “ the propriety
or moral purpose ” of the play in question. Should
the consensus of clergymanic opinion—should the
verdict of Beatty’s black-coated brethren —be un-
favorable to the plaintiff, the management will
CRIES OF AGONY AND PICTURE HATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The encore was the prayer from “ La Tosca,” in which
the agonised sob at the repeated “per che ” (“ Why are
things thus?”) touched the house each time it occurred.
.... Once more the night breeze sighed with its burihen
of mournful thought through the opening to the “ Willow
Song," and soon the great singer was delivering the now-
familiar “ Salce ” with all her accustomed nuances of
expression. The musical phrase at the word “Cantiamo”
formed a revelation of heart-soothing sweetness such as
that silvery voice commands at will, and the thrilling cry
of agony at the end again proved surcharged with tragic
intensity.—S. M. Herald, 1716/'O9.
Away ! Away!
To the matinee,
Where all is wild grief and nothing is gay.
There’s ten-and-six (and the Devil) to pay,
And screams of “Alas!” and “ Alack-a-day! ”
But never loud shouts of “ Hooray ! Hooray !”
Where ev’ryone moans and no one makes hay,
And maidens mope in a lunatic way
By rivers that flow to a distant bay,
(Which foolish practice, I venture to say,
The best intellect in the world would slay
If the one who owned it were such a jay
By the turgid stream long enough to stay).
But maids with their hair down, who weep and
pray,
Should be carted off with a horse and dray
And given an infant wherewith*to play.
Oh ! these are the things the songs don’t convey !
The bald-headed bandsmen that scrape and bray—
With a view, of course, to their weekly pay—
They know it’s all musical bosh, don’t they !
They wink as they fiddle and play—play—play
For the hatted females who won’t be gay
And shrink from glad cries of “ Hooray!
Hooray!! ”
But dote on the maidens who weep and pray,
Who should be removed with a horse and dray.
(Oh ! picture hats and misery,
Pale, cultured shrieks of agony,
And sobs and sighs
And streaming eyes
All make the critics squirm with glee !
But I hath the maidens who weep and pray
(Oh ! advertise for a horse and dray !)
And woefully wail at the matinee !
N.S.W.
KODAK.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Patents. —Messrs. Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys and Trade Mark Agents of
IC3 King Street, Sydney, and 9 Queen Street.
Melbourne, desire to inform their clients that
since the retirement of Mr. T. C. Allen the firm's
engineering work is in the hands of Mr. Chas,
Hatton (Member Yict. Inst, of Engineers).*
have no hesitation, (it says, in abandoning the
case. This is where an uhordained critic feels it
his duty to crawl under the table and await
results. Meanwhile Miss Mortyne, in her popular
character of the doctor’s wife, continues to find
fault with Providence for allotting a remarkably
fine child to such a brazen hussy as Sarah Piper,
whilst denying progeny to matrons whose rigid
respectability entitle them to some little con-
sideration. Author Jones has unconsciously
coined a new term of descriptive endearment for
the common or household baby. It’s a Little
Consideration.
AT MELBOURNE ROYAL
(“The Hypocrites”).
HARCOURT
BEATTY.
JAMES LINDSAY.
By the way, the first production of' the
Oscar Asche-Lily Brayton co. at the Royal, next
month, will be “ Count Hannibal,” an adaptation
of Stanley Weyman’s novel.
* *
The Melbourne Princess’s re-opens on
Saturday for a brief season of Julius Knight and
Co. For nine weary months, or less, Melbourne
has seen nothing of the gallant Julius, but it re-
members him at latest as a Scarlet Pimpernel,
whose leading lady was Miss Ola Humphrey.
This time his star of fortune will be Miss Beatrice
Day, and he is going to call her Josephine and
doom her to “A Royal Divorce” without the
option of a fine. Also, he will tableau in the
Retreat from Moscow and the Battle of Waterloo,
and, finally, he will be seen posing out on the
rock when the sun is low. Julius Knight as
Napoleon has frowned at many a crowded audience
in Melbourne. The public that has braved his
imperial glare in the past will be glad to renew
the experience on Saturday. And there are others
who have .not yet swallowed his solemn Napo-
leonic testimony to the bulldog courage of their
race.
** * *
Saturday next (26th) is to be a great night
at Melbourne King’s, the birthnight of Randolph
Bedford’s stupendous drama, entitled “ White
Australia ; or, The Empty North,” the motives
whereof are educational, sensational, political and
strictly businesslike. For weeks past the forcible
and only Bedford has been devoting the bulk of
his superfluous energy to rehearsals of “White
Australia,” and the Andersonian co., being now
fully seized of the fact that this is “ The Drama of a
Nation’s Agony,” are expected to agonise with
unprecedented success. The time had arrived for
a warning revelation of the Emptiness of the
North, and the hour has brought forth its Bedford.
As an earnest endeavor to make the populace sit
up, “White Australia” has The Bulletin’s best
wishes.
** * *
The Scarlet Troubadours are in the Last
Nights at Melbourne Athenaeum Hall, owing to
the fact that the building will shortly be required
for an amateur stoush and wrastle tournament.
On Saturday last the gentle Troubs. started their
fourth week in face of a crowded audience, and
the name of their little show is good in the land.
** * *
John Wren, seemingly, has got the fever
for theatrical management' fairly in his blood.
Only a month or two ago he retired from the
Meynell and Gunn firm under the impression
that he had had enough of theatrical venturing on
a large scale. And now he is about to break
out again experimentally as the boss of Melbourne
Bijou and theimporter of Allan Doone, “Ireland’s
sweetest singer” (from ’Murka), who brings a co.
to play “ Sweet County Kerry,” or something of
that sort. Doone is understood to be an emulator
of Andrew Mack, and his programme is Emerald
Green all through. Which explains John Wren’s
action in the matter. Wren’s programme in all
his speculations has been either green in itself, or
John has kept a green limelight turned on it.
** * *
Wednesday night organ recitals at Mel-
bourne Town Hall have been resumed, to the satis-
faction of such as take their musical pleasures
placidly, and want to soothe their souls for six-
pence or a shilling. Dr. Price, who is now a quite
old-established artist on the municipal instru-
ment, draws up his programmes on sound business
principles. He presents the great masters in their
giddiest little moods, and is not too severely
classical to roll out the overture to “Zampa.”
Sixpenn’orth of organ recital is, in fact, a very
cheap entertainment at the Price.
** X #
Cinquevalli, who has been travelling some
since Melbourne got news of his return to this
country, came to light at Melbourne Opera House
on Saturday. He did the tricks he did of yore,
plus one or two new ones, with the same old mar-
vellous accuracy and air of unconcern. Moreover
the same low-comedy assistant figured in the
background, or sat aloft on a chair what time the
Father of Modern Juggling was embodying him
in a feat of strength. Remembering Cinque-
valli’s imitators, some of whom look exceptionally
clever in the absence of the Master, the genera-
tion that took off its hat to that graceful, muscu-
lar craftsman ten years ago, when his skill was an
astounding revelation, must doff its headgear
once again. He’s the one finished artist of the
crowd, apart from his unique performance with
the cannon ball, which, though said to be killing
him in 1899, continues to biff him between the
shoulders without killing him much. The Sisters
Sprightly are putting their youth and high spirits
into a new piece of fooling, and the Meisters are
meistering as usual. But Douglass, whose hard
voice was beginning to get on some people s
nerves, has arrived at his last night.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“N.”: Of all the plays I ever saw, “The Hypocrites”
is the most true to life. It has all happened just as we
see it. Away with your mawkish Rev. Julian Gray, of
“ The New Magdalen,” and John Strong, of “ The
Christian.” Beatty has the privilege of thoroughly em-
bodying the first honest flesh-and-blood clergyman put on
the stage. The play might be named “ Righteousness,”
even as Tolstoy struck in with “Resurrection.” Or call
it “ The Liars,” while Jones’ other play is only “The
Tarradiddlers.” There is not a hypocrite in the drama.
Lying is the staple. Observe that Beatty, as the Curate,
never flinches for the sake of dramatic effect. What a
supreme moment is that when he sternly addresses the
culprits with “ I charge you by that Day when thesecrets
of all hearts will be revealed ! ” He is cornered, like
Isabella in “ Measure for Measure,” but is solid rock. It
is the finest since “ Mrs. Tanqueray.” Not such a per-
fectly scooped-out work of art as that; but you feel that
both Tanqueray and his wife are unreal and the plot is
strained. Pinero is a cleverer man than Jones, but not
up to the curate of “The Hypocrites.” Just in this one
case Jones can say, “ I protest I use no Art at all.”
Died, the other day in a Melbourne hospital, Georgie
Leighford, who had battled hard for a living on the stage,
and deserved better luck than fell to her lot. Of late
years she played old women—benevolent or otherwise—
and her rather shrill tongue wagged effectively in
many an Andersonian drama when she wasn’t acting the
harridan in “Two Little Vagabonds.” Time was when
she wore yellow hair and played the giddy girl in farcical
comedy. Given better opportunities, the useful Georgie
Leighford might have done better work, for she had in-
telligence and other essentials as well. However, she died
in the hospital of disappointment and “ complications.”
Among the company that Oscar Asche is bringing hither-
ward, along with a shipload of theatrical luggage, there
are two actors—Athol Forde and Caleb Porter—who
should be able to tell the ex-Australian “boss” some-
thing of what is wanted, and what isn’t wanted, in this
country. Forde was one of the comedians of the Mus-
groveco. that played “ A Midsummer Night’s Dream, “As
You Like It,” and “Twelfth Night,” a few years back,
and he stayed on awhile (with J.0.W.) after the others
had returned to England. Caleb Porter and his wife were
imported for the Williamsonian productions of “ Two Little
Vagabonds” and “The Sign of the Cross.” Porter played
Nero in “The Sign”—a luridly neurotic Nero with a
No. 9 nose—and his wife was the smallest Christian who
was eaten by the lions. Another familiar name in the
Asche-Brayton crowd is R. F. Anson, presumably a son of
George Anson, of the original Brough-Boucicault co.
“P. Pusher ” : I cut this from an exchange the other
day:—“Avon Saxon, a one-time well-known American
singer, died at Berwick, N.S. (Canada), in March, aged 52.”
This particular Saxon visited Australia twice, first in 1817
as a member of Amy Sherwin’s ill-fated opera company,
and later, in 1901, with Belle Cole’s concert combination.
In the Tasmanian Nightingale’s unlucky Melbourne
season he played the leading baritone roles, with Alfred
Wilkie (tenor), A. Hubbard (bass), and alto Minna Fischer
(she was then the wife of Herbert Flemming). Amy
took the soprano roles. They made a bad start in
“Lucia,” and when “Maritana” came on as second
production, it was found necessary to engage E. St. Clair
at short notice to sing Don Jose, as Saxon did not know
his r6le. The managerial announcement was that he was
ill; but, nevertheless, he rolled up to the front stalls and
smiled on the chorus girls. Consequently some of the
papers said nasty things. Later financial troubles over-
took the show, and Hugo Gorlitz(who was Mr. Amy Sher-
win) had to give Saxon his gold watch in lieu of
salary. Eventually both Saxon and Wilkie sued the
management for arrears of remuneration, and then
retired to their native heath in ’Murka. Saxon was the
original Friar Tuck in Sullivan’s one and only grand
opera, “ Ivanhoe,” which ran 160 nights at the London
Royal English Opera House (now a palatial music hall) in
1901. Saxon had the most popular ditty in the opera,
the well-known drinking song, “ Ho, Jolly Jenkin,” about
the only' number that now survives from Sullivan’s work.
“ An Englishman’s Home ” is now out in book form.
And from the book it appears that the author—like Kip-
ling in “The Light that Failed” —is not responsible for
the silly and inartistic “happy ending,” forced on him
evidently' by the theatrical manager. As written, the
play ends at the shooting of Mr. Brown, with Prince
Yoland in possession. “We stay here,” he says, and a
note of uncertainty is neatly introduced by the inquiry of
his second-in-command : “ For how long, sir? ” (Curtain.)
That is Art. Why must the stage always be so much
more conventional and less lifelike than a book ?
“ S.S.”: They have cut much that is reprehensible out
of the Apache dance in “The King of Cadonia.” The
same dance as done in Paris was lately rattled off before
breathless semi-Wesleyan audiences at a Melbourne
flickergraph show, and its crude realism was tremendous.
In fact, there was something of the savage simplicity of
a South Sea mazurka in it, combined with the “ hotstuff ”
of a Maori posture dance. As we get it from Bertie
Gilbert and Miss Sargent it is merely a larrikin hop with
a trifle of “ knock-about ” added. In fact, there is more
“business” in a larrikin waltz at a really “ snide ” Mel--
bourne hop-shop these nights, and a compiler of theatri-
cal dances might work up a really fetching thing after a
study of original push methods. Much of the naughti-
ness of the Merry Widow Waltz has been commonplace in
the darnce ’alls of the fancy for years.
The supers of the Melbourne theatres are agitating for
a loftier wage. At present these people have to supply
the roar of the rabble, the cries of the lions in “ The Sign
of the Cross,” the applause of the village, and the cheers
of an advancing army, and manufacture other deeds
and noises, all on 15s. a week. Generally they have
to squander two or three weeks in rehearsal, for which
they receive no cash at all; and frequently they have to
rehearse the struts of Jeames or practice the glide of the
blanky assassin on Sundays and festival days, like Christ-
mas and Good Friday. So the oppressed craft of stage
supers is asking for an emolument of 3s. a performance,
including matinees (for which there is at present no
emolument), and they also suggest overtime—though it
looks like undertime—at the rate of Is. 6d. per hour for
rehearsals on Sunday, Christmas Day or Good Friday.
The managers are astounded at the cheek of the working
classes. They reckon that it won’t be long before the
rabble will have the hide to ask for a living wage.
Albert Waxman-Whelan scored heavily at a “benefit”
in London at Easter with an all-round performance of
whistling, imitations of actors—particularly of “ The
Whitasyed Kaffir”—and funny stories; “that about
a nigger and a bear provoked great laughter.” Is this
the old chestnut of the moderately pious sailor and the
Blanky Bear ?
“ Z.” (Melbourne) : Douglass’s Opera-house sketch of an
infuriated stage manager recalls a gibe re the manager
who rehearsed the Royal’s last pantomime. Came a long-
haired man, claiiping years of experience on the boards.
“Do you know how to walk across a stage ?” “Of course
I do.” “Walk over to this door.” (Applicant does so.)
“Walk over to that door.” (Another shuffle.) “Now
walk out into the street and stay there.” And the
aspirant obeyed. Also another tale of a large and none-
too-affable Australian actor-manager. It was known that
he wanted a man to play Henry XIII. in his next produc-
tion, and an applicant dropped into the dressing-room as
the great man was making up, and explained his willing-
ness to fill the bill. “ Close the door,” said the great man,
without, looking round. “Le’s see, you’ve played the
part before?” “Yes.” “What salary do you want?”
“ Well, say £6 a week.” “Shut the door when you go
out.”
“Vulcan”: As evidence of splendors to come, an
alleged 100 tons of the Asche-Brayton scenery landed in
Sydney last week —forerunner of a further alleged 400
tons. The ex-Australian’s ideas on the proper mounting
of Shakspeare are more gorgeous than anything Shak-
speare himself probably ever dreamed.
“ 0.K.” : Hactors have different ideas about the value
of descriptive terms in the Profesh. For instance,
Courtice Pounds, who made his first mark in Gilbert and
Sullivan opera, protested against the term “ tenor” being
applied to him what time he was filling his brief engage-
ment with J.O.W. in Australia. “I’m not a tenor,”
shrieked Pounds ; “ I’m an actor and a dancer, with a tenor
voice.” He certainly was all these things, but seeing that
his voice and artistic vocalisation were up to the concert-
platform standard, he needn’t have objected so vigorously
to the designation of “ tenor.” A still more unreasonable
hactor was Wilfred Shine, who came to Australia with
the “Morocco Bound” co., under engagement to the
McMahon Bros. He tried to escape from his contract and
join the Williamson co., but the McMahons brought
an action, and got a verdict for damages, which
Wilfred failed to satisfy. Just as he was about
to leave Melbourne to join the other co. in Sydney,
a writ overtook Wilfred, and the sheriff took him
formally into custody. His attempts to get out of
the tight place were humorous, but finally he was content
to return to his old allegiance, and make terms as to costs,
etc., with the Macs. An agreement was drawn up in
which lawyer Joe Woolf attempted to describe the
re-captured mummer as a “comedian,” whereat the Irish-
man—Wilfred Shine was very Irish in his accent—yelled
with agony : ‘‘ A comadian '! Have I come all the way
to Australia to be called acomadian ! ” “ Well,” said one
of the Macs. “ what the blanky asterisk are you ? A trage-
dian ?” But Wilfred wouldn’t be persuaded to own up to
the title of comedian. The proper legal definition of him,
he said, was “ dramatic artist.”
“ 0.K.” : In calling attention to the absurdities of the
Australian dramatist who gives British “nobility” titles
to his characters without having learned the rules of the
heraldic game, “ 10-2-4 ” forgets to mention that the
imported Andersonian dramas are guilty of similar dis-
plays of ignorance. Yet a knowledge of the rules of titu-
lar classification is as easily acquired as a smattering of
sporting lore, of which even intellectual writers like
Boucicault, the dramatist, or “ Ouida,” the novelist, were
unpardonably ignorant. Anybody can get a course of
instruction in forms of titles from a story by Thackeray,
or his disciple, Anthony Trollope. The latter had a par-
ticular weakness for revealing the subtle distinctions of
title between the sexes in the family of an earl. It is
true, as “10-2-4” points out, that “ no son of an earl ever
had the right to wear the word ‘Lord’ in front of his
Christian name,” but a reader who commits that
solemn fact to memory may as well note at the
same time that an earl’s daughter wears the courtesy
title of “Lady” in front of her baptismal name, whereas
her brothers, save the eldest, are not lords at all—merely
“ honorables ! ” - The eldest brother is a courtesy “ lord,”
as, for instance, Lord Dalmeny, eldest son of the Earl of
Rosebery. I would suggest that, for the edification of
Australian dramatists who dote on the British aristocracy,
a series of luminous discourses should be delivered by
such local viceregal hades-de-kong as happen to be
younger sons of persons hereditarily exalted. The
Honorable Capt. Jinks might explain that he bears the
family name of his revered father, the Earl of Dishwater,
whilst his eldest brother, Lord Slops, is adorned with the
second title belonging to their noble family. Also. Lord
Albert Juggins might account for his front distinction by
dilating on the fact that his papa is the Marquis of
Blitherland, and so on.
“ 0.K.” : How vastly superior is Charlotte Hemming to
even the brightest of dramatic reciters-in-ordinary 1
Charlotte gave two of her humorous pieces at Melbourne
Town Hall the other night—all the other items in a long
“ benefit ” programme being musical—and her effect on
the audience was magnetic. For the rest, there were
singers and instrumentalists by the dozen or two—a long
procession of them—but with the exception of Rita Hope
at the piano, Walter Barker, the harpist, and Doris Carter,
who sang “ The Last Rose of Summer ” very sweetly, no
turn was so successful as that of the tall, matter-of-
fact lady who just walked on and talked.
Mrs. G. B. Lewis has scored a small success in a one-act
trifle which serves as curtain-raiser to “The Devil” at
London Adelphi. Her part of a “ dear old soul ”is said
to be “delightfully played by Mrs. Rose Edouin.” from
which it appears that she has wisely substituted “Mrs.”
for “ Miss ” in front of her well-known family name.
The flickergraph business is alleged to be in such a
plump condition in Melbourne that some big people with
big money are thinking of erecting a theatre in Flinders-
street for flick purposes only. They haven’t gone closely
into the matter yet; but the cost is estimated wildlv at
£20,000. J
An Italian actor who played with the Majeronis in days
of yore, and used to discuss his professional grievances
with the management in fine Roman language, is just
now running a picture show on the Victoria Parade, Mel-
bourne. The Beck of “Beck’s Pictures” is the dis-
tinguished foreigner in question. Apparently, he is called
Signor Beck, but hi 3 historic family name blushes for the
vulgar alias.
J. and N. Tait are launching their showcraft in foreign
waters. Last week they engineered theifirst of a series of
Calv 6 concerts in London, and, with the “ Besses ” Band
they are feeling the musical pulse of S’Africa and Yellow
Asia.
“ 0.K.” : The other day I heard a young actor speak of
“ The Silver King "as an old-fashioned melodrama which
ought to be thrown on the rubbish heap along with other
sensational dramas of more than 20 years’ standing.
“The Silver King ” is about 28 years old, yet, to my way of
thinking, it remains as far ahead of all other melodramas
as ever. The latest revival of it by a J.C.W. company,
with Kolker and Miss Ola Humphrey as Wilfred and Nellie
Denver, is weaker in several places than the best of its
predecessors, but the skill of the dramatists—H. A. Jones
and the late Henry Hermann—is none the less apparent.
The story is so well constructed that it continues to
interest old playgoers who know the order of its scenes by
heart. The characters are so strongly outlined
and their dialogue so pungent for the most
part, that they “play themselves.” Only an utterly
incompetent or misplaced actor could be a ridiculous
failure in a “Silver King” part—large or small. When
they are fairly capable and carefully chosen they all have
success thrust upon them. I don’t find the piece old-
fashioned, as melodramas go, save in two or three
respects. The opening scene represents the sort of Lon-
don pub—or rather the skittle alley appertaining thereto
—which has now ceased to exist, though there certainly
were such places to be found for years after the drama
was written. The incident of Wilfred Denver recklessly
throwing off his “Deaf Dickey” disguise and proclaiming
himself to the burglars in their “den ”at the Rotherhithe
wharf is a wildly melodramatic “curtain” effect—
but it isn’t old-fashioned. It looks merely like
a lapse into modern Andersonian madness. In other
respects the play is brought up-to-date. The front
scene, where Denver used to limp to a roadside log and
tell of how imaginary voices had shouted “ Stop the
train 1” until he opened the carriage door and leapt out,
has been abolished, and the speech, “O God ! put back
Thy universe and give me yesterday ! ” is transferred to
the scene of the private room at the country inn. Some
of the dialogue of the three village gossips has been
deleted. Mr. Parkyn, the clerk of the parish church, has
ceased to mention that the Lord Bishop of the diocese
specially commended his reading of the Psalms, conse-
quently Mr. Binks is no longer able to reply, “ Very
likely ; but the Psalms is one tiling and the Daily Telegraph
is another , Mr. Parkyn.” One misses the lines that are
gone, but the play seems all the stronger, for a little con-
densation. None of “the Spider’s” bitingcy-nicisros have
been cut. Author H. A. Jones professes, nowadays, to be
ashamed of his share in “The Silver King,”but he has
written nothing better than the dialogue between “the
Spider” and Olive Skinner, which happens just previous to
the arrival of Elijah Coombe, Crippsand Henry Oorkett at
their domicile, in the third act. There isn’t a superflous
line in it.
“Cockaigne”: The London Times has a notice of a
gathering of 1500 people in St. Saviour’s, London, on
Shakspeare’s birthday. Poet Laureate Austin read a new
poem which wasn’t worth reading, and actor Forbes
Robertson gave a lecture which was worth hearing. In
Shakspeare’s time every man was required by law to
attend his parish church ; so William the Bard must have
been in St. Saviour’s perhaps on 1000 occasions, listening
to dry sermons and badly-read Scriptures, during his 22
years’ residence in Southwark or Bankside or the
Borough, as it is variously termed. Probably there is
more of the ghost of Shakspeare hanging round that old
church than there is loafing about Stratford. Three of
the south windows of St. Saviour’s, facing that part of
the sky where the fog is thinnest, are pictured in honor
of Shakspeare, Fletcher and Massinger.'
Miss Elbert Orton, the dark-eyed, classical-looking lady
who figured with Julius Superfluous in “Robin Hood”
and “Raffles,” etc., in Australia, has invaded the United
States boards, apparently as an actress from Australia.
She was lately playing in “ A Fool There Was,” a drama-
tisation of Kipling’s “ Vampire,” in New York or some-
where, and was said to be printing herself as Miss
Katherine Karbred, an Australian actress. Well, there
was something of more than ordinary promise in the
immature histrionics of the commanding Miss Orton.
Amy Sherwin was lately reappearing at the National
Sunday League concerts at the Alhambra Music Hall
(London), giving monologues written for her by Pett
Ridge and John Strange Winter. The governments of
the Australian States, which are held in thrall by a snuffling
minority of Sabbatarians, ought to note the spread of the
Sunday League movement in England. London nowa-
days has shifted a lot of its old Sabbath depression.
Every large suburb has a place of amusement open on
the Day of Rest. Within the city radius there are con-
certs at the Albert Hall, Alhambra, Coliseum, arid Queen’s
Hall (afternoon and evening). The evening entertain-
ment at the Queen’s Hall on a recent Sunday' was a con-
cert performance in English of “ Cavalleria Rusticana ”
and selections from “Lohengrin,” “Faust,” etc., by the
Carl Rosa opera co. The profits of the League shows go
to the hospitals, and the Lord blesseth the cheerful
sinner.
“H. 0.”: Re the barrenness of ideas displayed by-
authors in the naming of the children of their brains (Red
Page 6/5/’O9), “ Wang’s ” examples do not by any means
exhaust the list of similarly named books. I have just
read W. J. Locke’s latest, it is called “Septimus” ; years
ago Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote “Septimius.” H. A.
Vachell wrote “Brothers,” and Rosa N. Carey “ Sisters.”
Hawley Smart played “False Cards ” ; and we also meet
with “False and True,”by Hon. L. Eden ; “ False Hearts
and True,” by Mrs. Alexander Fraser ; “ False Colors,” by
Annie Thomas ; and “ The False Heir ” (not “ hair ”) by
G. P. R. James. Long ago Charles Reade wrote of
“Double Marriage”; likewise Gertrude Southam gives
us “Double Dealing”; Catherine Childar, “Double
Dutchman”; John Pomera.y, “Double Secret”; G. Man-
ville Fenn, “Double Knot”; and L. W. M. Lock-
hart, “Doubles and Quits.” “The Girl ,” it
would seem, serves almost as often as a title for
a book, as she does as excuse for a musical
comedy-. We find, among other feminine goods,
“ The Girl He Married,” by James Grant; and note with
a tear “The Girl He Did Not Marry,” by Iza Dutt'as
Hardy ; there are also “ The Girl at Birrells’,” bv Thomas
Heney ; “The Girl at Colhurst,” by F. R. Stockton ;
“The Girl in the Brown Habit,” by Mrs. E. Kennaird ;
and, most natural of all girls, “ The Girl with a Temper,”
by E. B. F. Knight. But perhaps this want of a fertile
imagination is found at its worst in those most weirdly-
imaginative of persons—bellowdramatists. Take the
play-s, in the titles of w-hich the word London figures, and
we have: “The Streets of London,” “The Lights of
London,” “In Dangerous London,” “The Heart of Lon-
don,” “When London Sleeps,” “Lured to London,”
“ Her Luck in London,” “ The Worst Woman in London,”
and others altogether too numerous to mention.
“ Oudeis,” from London: Henrietta Watson, Madge
Titheradge, C. G. Matthews, and Lowndegave a distinctly
Australian flavor to the cast of Hubert Davis’s new
comedy, “ Bevis,” just produced at the Haymarket.
Madge Titheradge revealed herself as a young woman who
is taking her profession seriously; too seriously for
success in silly comedy of the Davis brand. She was
more at home playing- heroics with Lewis Waller, and will
probably ’vert to the management of that successful
barnstormer. I should not think “Bevis” would ever
travel to Australia ; it is not strong enough to stand the
sea journey. On the other hand, the new theatrical
season is responsible for one really good absurdity-, Car-
ton’s “Mr. Preedy and the Countess.” It kept even the
w-eary- first-nighters laughing.
Historians allege that English opera had its palmy- days
during the reign of the Louisa Pyne and James Harrison
co., which included such artists as young Santley-, and
Weiss, the composer of “ The Village Blacksmith.”' The
co. was at its best about 45 to 50 years ago, although
Pyne and Harrison must then have been a well-seasoned
pair. A reminder of their bygone celebrity was the recent
announcement of the death of George Perrin, a leading
member of the co., who passed out at the respectable age
of 86. Santley is now, presumably-, the only survivor of
the musical party.
“Myrtle”: A red cotton handkerchief to a bull is
nothing like a bull-nigger to a Burns. Mention Johnsing’s
name, and T. Burns is capable of biting the corners off a
chest' of drawers. At Mount Morgan (Queensland)
Tommy’s punch-and-picture show was going as strong
as a terrace of fish-libs, and Tommy was pointing with
pride to the flickers of his successful wreckage of
Gunner Moir. He remarked : “ Here you see the referee
has called him(Moir)aside.” “ Pity he didn’t call Johnson
aside !” yelled an ape. “Come up here, and I’ll knock
you aside ! ” said Thomas Burns warmly. Then the inter-
jector grew suddenly wise. He had forgotten that Burns
wasn’t the Phidston candidate.
ENTHUSIASM AT A MATINEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mrs. Melba, upon her appearance in harmonious attire
of a peculiar pale hviminth-blue tint, with a large, black
picture hat, and necklace and long’ chain and pendant of
diamonds, was e, •.j:;illy greeted ; but real enthusiasm
did not stir the listeners from their lady-like attitude of
customary reserve until the charm of the singer s style
had increasingly’exerted its potent sway... Mr. blapoffski
had his orchestra admirably in hand all the afternoon,
and the playing of the muted strings in the “ Ave Maria”
assisted the soloist in that effect of devotional abstraction
from the outer world which lies at the heart of her inter-
pretation. There is no attempt whatever to show the
voice. That must take cave of itself. Touches like this
make the experienced opera-goer nearly burst with silent
admiration, whilst some less-cultivated neighbor will be
heard whispering, “But how quiet!”—S. M. Herald
(18/6/’O9 ) on the final Melba matinie.
Conceive a “lady-like ” assemblage—calm,
Well-fed, and more than beautifully froeked—
Over which broods like some impressive cloud,
Or blanket, or what not, an atmosphere
Of chill reserve. . . . Slapoffski’s colleagues play,
And, at the sound, the cantatrice walks on ;
(Not “ singer,” mark, but “ cantatrice ”) the clap,
Faint and subdued, which indicates the caste
Of Vere de Vere occurs. No vulgar note
(Save jn a distant gallery, where one,
Ungentle, yaps “ Hooray ! ” and straight is grabbed
And heaved, protesting, down a flight of steps)
Is heard. All is genteel, bland —even dull.
But now the cantatrice (observe again
That cultivated phrase) doth open out;
And forthwith o’er the spirit of the scene
A change most marvellous is seen to come.
Young men whose manners, erst, had won respect
In any haberdashery, clap, cheer
And stamp like Tivoli frequenters. None
Essays to stop them. All around fair dames,
Caught in enthusiasm’s tricksy' net,
Forget the social maxims they were taught
In immaturity, and, standing up,
Howl their appreciation stridently.
High overhead the Merr.v Widow hat
Of wild approval whirls, likewise the plug
Variety of headpiece. Tears and sobs
And hiccups rend the quiv’ring air. “ I’m saved !
I’ve found the Lord ! ” a cultured voice proclaims
• —The owner being smitten with the view
That a Revival Meeting is in train.
Loud frenzied “ Hallelujahs ! ” and “ Amens !”
Prove the delusion general. Amid
This riot of excitement and delight
A tragic note is struck ;—a critic moans,
Then (speechless adoration in his eyes)
Falls helpless to the floor, and bursts, and dies.
n.s.w.
10-2-4.


fcM 7
•SJ
Delivered to you for 35/
The illustration shows one of our present styles
in Ready-to-Wear clothing. It is entirely
different from any other Ready-made clothing
hitherto produced. The cut, style, and finish of
these goods have the appearance of Made-to-
Order clothing ; - and such features as the Long
Roll Collar, the shaped waist, the Long Front
with slightly rounded corners are in evidence
here as in the Made-to-Measure clothing. The
materials are Winter-weight Tweeds in Medium
and Dark shades. Please note that
The Price is 35/-
Other Tweeds of Superior Qualities from 40/-
to 65/- These suits are excellent for everyday
wear, and we send them carriage paid to any
part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
A New Guinea Camera
m
9S
rii
Vi-
The Mo. 0 FOLDING VICTOR,
This Camera is Marvellous Value—nothing- like it at the price
lias ever reached our market. It is Beautifully-Finished,
Excellent Lens, T. and I. and Bulb Shutter, Rising Front,
Infinity Catch and Focussing- Scale, Leather Bellows, and all
necessary Fittings complete.
Price 21/-
Postage—N.S.W., l/=
Inter-State, 1/8.
HARRINGTONS LTD.
The Hub of the Commonwealth for Cameras & Photo. Supplies,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
This is only ONE of our Many Good Lines of Cameras,
from 6/6 through many styles to £5O.
Novelties in VEST POCKET CAMERAS and FOLDING
REFLEX CAMERAS, Just Landed.
Also, New Papers for ALL Printing Methods, and
Every Best Brand of Plates, etc., now in use.
Branches—
-179 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
93 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
Society
PENOLDS
WINES
AT THE CLUB.
EYEGLASS: “Haw! The beastly — ah—Labah
Government would hare tried to make the
old land believe that we — ah — hadn’t a spark
of—ah —patriotism in us.”
ALL THE CLUB: “ Heah! Heah!”
The “Nature Notes and Queries” in
Melbourne Argus are interesting as far as they
go, but their educational sphere is limited by
social conventionalities, it seems. Donald Mac-
donald supplies the notes, and deals with certain
queries. Still, there are others that never get
answered. Somebody tried him the other week
with the burning question : “ Do barmaids eat
their young?” And the savant supplied him
with nothing but a dead silence.
Sydney will be the last of the three bigger
Australian State capitals to get a whiff of the taxi-
cab ; but the whiff is coming all right. Two or
three times different broker people have gazed on
the profits alleged to be made by the owners of
the Melbourne carts; but they have torn up their
draft prospectuses when it occurred to them that
they couldn’t get a monopoly of the business. It
was, in fact, whispered into the ears of some of
them that if the things were a success the few big
cab-owners in Sydney, not to mention some of the
dozen or two motor-car livery-stable keepers,
would at once cut in. Still, the gilded clients of a
big law firm are prepared to chance it; wherefore
the big law firm has taken on the unusual job of
whipping together a more or less private co. ; and
the first steps have already been taken towards
introducing the machine that won’t argue with
you about the fare, or threaten stoush if you don’t
fall in with its views as to what constitutes “ a
fair thing, Mister.”
■**■*■*
A good old ship has come to Port Jackson
to end its days. In the times when the clippers,
with their acres of canvas, held the Australian
trade, the Melbourne was one of the best known
passenger vessels trading to these parts. Later
still, as the Macquarie, it became almost better
known. When old age began to supervene,
it was sold to the Norwegians, who are
great buyers of derelict merchantmen and
will keep a ship dodging over the seas
till the sides and bottom ■ fall out; and,
under the name of the Fortuna, it made
Sydney Heads once more last month. Being
too old and storm-tossed to be worth send-
ing out again, the vessel of the three names and
the three lives now becomes a coal hulk. The
fact of the three names is significant. The
handiest way of changing old ships for new is to
buy the middle-aged craft Smith, paint it a new
color and re-name it the Jones, and then send it
forth as a perfectly fresh skimmer of the seas, just
out of the builder’s hands.
* * * *
The Australian army doesn’t take itself
very seriously. Last week there was a row —in
fact, some accounts call it a free tight and a chew-
ing match—at Paddington (Sydney) barracks,
and a subordinate officer, being hauled up for
some alleged misdemeanor, handed in a resigna-
tion which read thus :
To the G. 0.0.—1 hereby resign from your rotten ser-
vice. It is no good. I wouldn’t be found dead in it.
(Signed) J. F. Daly.
That sort of thing is calculated to make the Great
Powers of Europe scoff when they come to hear
of it. No German officer ever goes to the Emperor
and says: “Look here, Bill, I’m full up of this
business, and you can have my spiked helmet to
feed the dog out of.” He may feel that way, but
he doesn’t say it. There are some things better
left unsaid.
People of strange occupations happen into
the Divorce Court at times. One who transpired
in Sydney last week described himself as a tripe-
cleaner, though he had also been a coal-trirnruer
on a boat. He was 19 and his wife 17 when they
married, which was three years ago. Presumably
for want of sufficient tripe to clean, they were a
homeless sort of pair, living sometimes with his
father and sometimes with her mother. The
drama wandered around among places like Lower
George-street, and Erskineville, and a certain
cheap “ gaff ” ; except when the scene was laid in
the slaughter-yard where plaintiff washed tripe,
or the steamboat hole where he shovelled coal.
Altogether it was a sordid little drama, hanging
out in the sort of localities where you see the sign
“ Good Bedds 6d.”
* ■* * -K
The Fatmen of Melbourne, and all their
satellites, myrmidons and harmless employees,
are watching for the outcome of a writ that was
issued in the Supreme Court last month. The
action is to procure the nullification of a certain
agreement, described as “ unconscionable.”
Defendant and his partner, a well-known and
eminently over-fed Hebrew, are octopusian
financiers, and if all their financing has been very
similar to what is alleged in the case under
notice, their wealth must be Enormous with a
capital E. They are understood to be interested
in more than 25 trading and financial businesses in
Melbourne. Which, of course, is nothing to do
with the Law. If it was a reasonable agreement
that is about to be discussed in court, the Law
will bestow its blessing on the defendant, and the
plaintiff or plaintiffs will presumably have to pay
costs for their revelations.
There is many a poor, shrivelled soul
wandering around that ought to he reckoned as
only some small fraction of a soul ; but hitherto,
no matter how small the soul, the unimaginative
Census-taker has kept to the principle of one soul
one person. Queensland, however, got tired of
this ; wherefore the man who trips over that
State’s statistics these times is liable to get a
shock. For instance, he will see that in 1908 the
State received from Great Britain 2282 immi-
grants, comprising 2584 souls. Therefore the
Queensland immigrant averages IT6 of a soul. In
December 123 immigrant “souls” arrived by the
Otnrah; but when the Department had run the
rule over them they only panned out 10f>g immi-
grants. These halves are liable to lead to con-
fusion and false ideas if the Queensland Govern-
ment doesn’t take some trouble to explain that,
though the child of an immigrant is included in
the “ soul ” column as 1, he only figures in the
“ immigrant ” column as Which is to say that
one soul may be only half an immigrant. Still, as
the immigrant will find out that many a local
big-landlord has only half a soul or thereabouts,
the account may be called square.
THE LAND OF ILLIMITABLE
DISTANCES.
“Since we're living in the country I take long walks for my complexion , dear."
“ Yes. That's the worst of living in the country—the chemist’s shop is always so far away."
Some weird joker has been having a gay
time at the expense partly of Cole, of the Mel-
bourne Book Arcade, but mostly at that of the
Melbourne detectives. Cole first received a letter
demanding £3OO, failing which the writer pro-
mised the destruction of the entire Cole family,
including the monkeys and the tame cockatoo.
The ancient bookseller decided to risk himself and
the cockatoo, and ignored the request ; but on
repeated demands occurring, he mentioned the
joke to a detective, whereupon the force was
seized with the notion that a. dangerous, black-
mailing gang, similar to the Black Hand, was at
large and called for suppression. Then for several
weeks Cole was forced to act as a decoy, and to
carry a heavy parcel of old iron round, while
wearing a green tie or a yellow neckerchief, keen-
eyed sleuth-hounds following him to nab the
villain as soon as he disclosed himself. But,
though Cole carefully followed the instructions in
the various epistles, and even went to enormous
trouble in planting his weighty swag in sundry
indicated spots, the Black Hand never reached
out to annex the spoil. Either, as he explained
in his next epistle, he had another important
contract on hand just then, or Cole hadn’t done
exactly what had been stipulated. Finally, the
old man wearied of the joke, and told the ’tecs to
capture the scoundrel without him, if they could.
And at that point the letters suddenly ceased.
HOORAY!
The tone of the stock and share market con-
tinues buoyant. Tin is plentiful, coppers scarce,
and Barriers very high.
A case, heard in the N.S.W. Industrial
Court last week against a North Sydney baker for
not paying his men overtime wages rates, shows
the difficulty of administering industrial awards,
owing to the fact that the privilege of the sack
can only be exercised by one side. The baker was
proceeded against for not paying 13 employees for
overtime in November last according to the award ;
and the employees were also proceeded against
for not collecting the money. Ten pleaded guilty
to working after hours for nothing, and were each
fined £1 and abused by the Judge.- Their defence
was that application for the money was made by
one man, who was promptly sacked; and one
witness swore that he had already lost four jobs
because he wanted overtime pay. So these men
had either to risk being discharged from their em-
ployment, or else work after hours for nothing,
with the chance of being fined for doing ;o
and severely lectured by a Judge, who himself
toils about six months in the year. In this ease
they certainly had the satisfaction of seeing the
master baker fined £l5O ; but had he been fined
£l5OO they would be no better off.
Private Enterprise in the cool storage line
had a quiet little talk with Victorian Premier
Murray and Agriculture Minister Graham lately
—and then departed in deep silence. Private
Enterprise called itself the Freezing Traders’
Association, but in reality it consisted of certain
meat and butter exporters, who possess cool
stores, and badly want the State to retire from its
lesseeship of the City Council Stores ; also to drop
its threatened intention to build cool stores of its
oyvn adjacent to rail and water carriage. In
choosing its deputation Private Enterprise made
the ghastly r mistake of sending a couple
of well-known butter exporters; for Minis-
ter Graham, who was one of the three
Butter Commissioners, was immediately over-
whelmed with a flood of unpleasant recollections,
and presently stiffened Murray into telling the
deputation that he would do all in his power to
protect the producer and the consumer. Also,
after remarking that the Government, and not
Private Enterprise, had started the storage busi-
ness, and had set the export industry on its feet,
he mentioned that the complaint used to be that
the State charges were too high, and now it was
said they were too low--and he would like to know
what was meant by it. Also he wanted to know
how it was that, while the Government charges
were allegedly too low, some of the private com-
panies were actually charging less and undercut-
ting the Government. And what was the little
game, anyhow ? At this stage Private Enterprise,
not having any answers handy, became dis-
organised, and retired in confusion.
CAPITAL ABANDONS MAORILAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Speaking at a meeting in Geraldine (Canterbury, M.L.),
convened for the purpose of urging the Government to
give free passages to domestic servants from the United
Kingdom, Mr. Bernard Tripp, a local squatter, said that
the present tightness of money was due to the servant-
girl trouble. People with money, unable to obtain ser-
vants in Ma'oriland, were going to Australia and other
places to live. He was certain that hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds had left the Dominion for the above
reason.— M.L. News Item.
It is a Home, all desolate.
On the unbeaten mat.
Which none has troubled to “ put straight,”
Slumbers a grimy cat ;
Near by, within the unblacked grate,
Reclines an old plug hat.
The breakfast things are not washed up ;
A vast, white stagnant sea
Of errant milk, and one smashed cup
Tell agonisingly
Of absent “ girls.” A vagrom pup,
Unhindered, drinks cold tea.
Dust in a thick, pervasive pall
Is over ev’rything;
Piano, couch and floor and wall,
Carpet and curtain-ring,
And mantel-shelf and ceiling—all
Hide ’neath its soft, grey wing.
The kitchen is a place of waste :
No shiny pan or pot
Adorns its dresser. ... Is one faced
On entering, with hot
And burnished stove, fitted to baste
Or boil? Alack! One’s not.
Masses of cold, dead coal-lumps show
Between'untended bars
Which once were wont to gleam and glow
Like cheerful tropic stars.
Naught of the past resides there now,
Save dirt and rust’s deep scars.
The garden is a wilderness,
The drive’s in disrepair ;
Weird and appalling is the mess
That greets one ev’rywhere.
Anguish obsesses one no less
To see the lawn’s long hair.
Over this Maid-less scene a hush
Broods horribly alway.
No screams for Jane, no broom or brush
Resound the livelong day.
Only one hears the wild, mad rush
Of Capital away.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


A Cold Bath on a Hot Day.
A cold bath on a hot day is refreshing
Every pore of your body is more open in
hot weather and requires more frequent
cleansing than in cold weather. The pores
in hot weather absorb more freely than in
cold weather; it is therefore most unde-
sirable, after taking a morning bath, to
cover the body with underclothing that
has been washed with adulterated common
soap. For comfort, cleanliness and free-
dom from skin disease the clothing worn
next the skin should be washed with a
pure and well-made soap. If Sunlight
Soap be used in the laundry your pores
absorb purity.
Mary had a little ham
(A pound or so—with eggs),
And off she ran to catch the tram,
For she had nimble leg's.
She wore a Merry Widow hat
And staggering coiffure,
And had a cold, but soon fixed that
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
166
f ?ro : \
A Smart Overcoat at J 216
This Overcoat is well qualified to fulfil the demands of the man
who desires a fashionable warm overcoat at a moderate figure.
The materials are handsome striped Dark Grey and Dark Olive
Green Rainproof Tweeds, tailored with the full skirt, gauntlet
or plain cuffs, and finished shoulders and fronts and vertical or
flap pockets as desired. In weight, light; but giving plenty of
warmth. Made in our own workrooms, and finished in a very
superior manner indeed. We pay the postage anywhere, and
will exchange if not quite as desired.
Messrs. PE APES & CO. LTD., Sydney. [ORDER COUPON. I
Please supply me your Overcoat at 32/6 in
color; chest measurement ; waist ; sleeve
Name
Address
DEAPES and CO. LTD.,
“ MEN'S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Sydney City Coroner recently investi-
gated a case which suggests that suicide is a
catching disease. A Chinese girl named Lang
Heung, aged about 17, left China for Australia in
company with a Mrs. Keats. Overcome probably
by remorse at introducing a Chinese ‘girl to a
white country, Mrs. Keats committed suicide at
sea. Lang Heung continued her voyage—she
could not very weil leave the ship in mid ocean—
and arrived in Sydney, where she took up her
quarters with a Chinese family in the Glebe. The
family went out one day, leaving her in charge,
and returned to find her hanging by the neck to
tiie bedroom door, a perfectly dead Chinawoman.
* * * *
At Adelaide the quoters of Scripture have
been getting in some heavy work lately. One of
them wrote to a local Board of Health that there
was no need for its proposed consumption-fighting
measures. All the Board need do was to rule the
pig out on a foul under Deut. xiv., 8, and Isa.
lxvi., 17. The only prayer of devils on record that
was answered was when they asked to be sent into
the swine ; and there they are ; and there you
are ! “ When we eat swine, we eat devil.” This
Scriptural authority said he had often been asked
what God made the pig for, anyway. “Well, I’m
not sure he did make it. 1 think the Devil has cre-
ative power (Ex. vii., 10).’’ The papers of the same
day (June 15) recorded that an “apostolicadviser”
had written to King Edward, informing him that
“the Almighty was displeased with those who
supported or did not denounce horse-racing.”
Edward good-naturedly had the letter “ac-
knowledged,” without troubling to point out that
Providence, so far from being displeased, had
caused his colt to run faster than anything else in
the Two Thousand, and, at the time of writing,
had a probable Derby in £tore for him.
AFTER THE BALL.
MRS. BUSH PUR (bitterly): “ An ’ at harf-past
nine old ’Erb Smith was dancing with both
his boots off. You'd a thought it ’ud a been
a bit more select with tickets eighteenpince a
piece.”
The deadly celluloid collar has been getting
in its work at Riverton (S. A.). The wearer got
too near to a candle, and was immediately put to
a torture which would have commended itself to
the Spanish Inquisition. He had his fingers and
his neck fried ; and was lucky to escape with even
that much.
That bright and cheerful “ hello girl,” Miss
McLeod, of Sydney, who gave evidence last week
re the miseries and overwork and under-payment of
the telephone maiden, had a remark to make
about the rush made upon the ’phone on Sunday
mornings. The telephones, it seems, are chiefly
used on Sundays by men who ring up from hotels
and boarding-houses, and explain more or less
plausibly to their wives why they failed to slope
steeply home on Saturday night. Plainly there
is work here for the Social Purity Brigade. If it
could tap the wires at each big hotel and listen to
these explanations, it might intercept a lot of sin
and cover a lot of sinners with confusion.
* * ' * *
The latest unreliable yarn of the Cold Tea
party is that a self-appointed committee watched
a Sydney pub for two hours one recent Saturday
night, and saw 939 persons go in, a large propor-
tion of them youths and girls under the legal age,
and many of them drunk. As these persons had
to come out again, that was equal to 1878 persons
passing the doorway in 120 minutes, or 15£ each
minute. Assume that they spent inside an aver-
age of five minutes each, there would be, as a
steady thing, 39 persons at the counter clamor-
ing simultaneously for drink. Allowing two feet
for each clamorer, that would make 26 lineal
yards of continuous beer-clamor. If a large pro-
portion of these persons were tight when they
went in, it is fair to assume that they were tighter
when they came out, and if five per cent, of them
fell down in consequence of their tightness,
that would mean about 47 persons lying
flat on the pavement outside. If, out of every
20 persons who passed that pub, one went in, then
the traffic in two hours represented 18,780 persons,
or at the rate of perhaps 112,000 per day. (There
being 700 pubs and 300 wine-shops in Sydney,
it seems possible that 112,000,000 people pass
them during a single day’s drinking hours, a large
proportion of the 112,000,000 being intoxicated.)
The pub in question apparently sold about 7000
drinks per day, allowing for the fact that when a
party of three enters a bar there are generally
three rounds of liquor. It probably also got
through about 1000 cigars. There are, as already
mentioned, over 700 pubs and 300 wineshops in
Sydney; also 40 licensed clubs and sundrv
packet licenses and sundries, and there ai e
102 spirit merchants. Among them all it
looks like a fair assumption, based on this
remarkable hotel, that Sydney consumes 5,000,000
drinks daily. That leaves a very small margin
for those who keep the keg in the house. The
figures represent 1,565,000,000 drinks per annum,
making no allowance for Sunday drinkers, and, at
a rough average of 4d. per drink, the bill repre-
sents £26,000,000 spent on liquor by Sydney alone,
or- about £70,000,000 for the State at large.
Therefore it is a reasonable inference that Aus-
tralia spends £187,000,000 a year on liquor. It is
a terrible situation, and calls for severe reproach,
or wild laughter, or something.
“ L’fou ” : There is another side to the oft-
discussed and tragic exodus of the young Vic-
torian males from the landlords’
lands—viz., the girls’ side. I write
from a dairying district. It is
peopled mostly by old married
cookies and girls—big girls, little
girls, old girls, young girls, pretty
girls, plain girls; red, black, gold,
brown, and grey-haired girls ; all
sorts of girls. Their brothers have
wandered afield, but they stay at
home and work on dad’s—or
dad’s landlord’s—farm. Most
of them crochet lace for pillow
shams and doyleys, and dream
about having' little homes of
their own some day. But they
never will have those homes,
and in their withering hearts
they know it. I’m tired of
going to dances and seeing the
wallflowers three-deep round
the hall—fine, handsome
blooms, too. The few men that
turn up are middle-aged men
or young benedicts. At picnics
there’s nothing for it but to
play kiss-in-the-ring or round-
ers with girl partners, or go
for a stroll in the woodlands
with another girl—or two or
three or four or five girls.
Ihe same with any other
shivoo in this Adamless
Eden. Hamlet lack-
ing. the Ghost, also
the gravediggers and
Ophelia, is not in it
for frosty destitution and
incompleteness with a girl-
infested country centre
whence all the marriage-
able males have been
driven away by art in-
sane land system.
Advt. from the Van-
couver World (Canada)
expressive of the joys of
living in a country which
hasn t sense enough to keep
itself white:—
Wanted.—You n g Scotchman (unfortunately not Hin-
doo or Chinese); good character ; well-educated ; dead-
broke ; desires work at anything-. Box B 29, World.
* * * ’*
The latest quotation for Peruvian bonedust
(human) is Bs. Dd. per ton. On June 1 a barque
called the Canterbury blew into Newcastle
(N.S.W.). It was in ballast, and had sailed
across from Eten, which is a miserable one-
schooner port a little north of Callao, on the
Peruvian coast. The ballast was taken out after
arrival at Newcastle and lightered out to sea,
where it was dumped into the ocSan by stevedores'
who were thankful to smell the last of it. The
investigations of inquisitive reporters have ma.de
it evident that the Canterbury was kept steady
on her long voyage with a slice of an old Peruvian
cemetery. Skulls, thighbones, jaws and other
grisly fragments occurred frequently amongst the
fine, strong-smelling dust, that seemed to become
stronger and more aggressive day by day. It was
the only protest the dead Peruvians could
make at being used for ballast at Bs. 9d. per ton,
and cast into wetness. By the wav, it is time
something was done about this craving to dig up
the earth and throw it needlessly into the sea.
There isn’t so very much dry globe now, com-
pared with the great superfluity of wet globe, that
man can afford to throw the habitable earth over-
board the reckless way he does.
Evidence of a barmaid in a Melbourne
police court case: “Do you mean to say you
were in the room and did not hear the foul lan-
guage complained of, nor know that the prisoner
had struck complainant with a chair?” “Well,
you see, I was looking in the mirror at the time.’’’
A MATTER OF A SLEEPING COM-
PARTMENT.
“I didn't see you at church this morni ng, Henry.”
“ No. I slept at home! ”
The Caniperdown representatives in the
Sydney City Council, to which the ancient little
borough has been lately added, want to change
the name to “Rawson.” If wretched little
toadies were not so pitifully ignorant about every-
thing that doesn’t happen to be under their noses
at the moment, the old historical names might
have a chance. The best part of Camperdown
was a grant to William Bligh, Governor in the
first decade of last century. He named it Camper-
down after the little village on the coast of Hol-
land, in sight of which the Dutch fleet encoun-
tered the British. Bligh commanded the
Director, and in a duel beat the Dutch ship
Vryhead—beatit so badly that the Admiral went
on board the Director and surrendered his sword
to Bligh. Why disturb the old association of
the suburb with Bligh and with Bligh’s historical
performance ?
* • * *
“ D.” : McManamamny, the Victorian’tec,
just back from Europe with an absconder, uses
proud words about the prosperity of Australian
crooks in that continent. He saw spielers, once
well known in King-street, Sydney, and other Aus-
tralian haunts, displaying diamond-bedecked shirt-
fronts in London clubs, and parading costly furred
females in dazzling motors, and he cannot explain
why the flash Australian should have made this
rush for fresh fields. I can. I heard the matter
put very concisely by a polished gentleman—
whose polish was only a trifle brassy—the
day after the bright and shining light had
assisted in luring a Jubilee Juggins to a Double
Bay villa, and there taking him down for
over £2OOO in one night. Said the polished
philosopher: “After all, Australia is no field
for a man of striking merit. The true mug
is not bred here; he is almost invariably an im-
port. The Australian jay is scarcely worth
picking ; while the Old World product is often
extremely edible. The money has been in his
family for generations, and he doesn’t know what
it’s worth. You can take up bis brains on a
needle. There are thousands of him in London.
What fools we are to wait for an occasional fat
Juggins to be shipped here, instead of going
straight to the breeding ground.” McMana-
mamny seems to have an idea that it is the
brilliant capacity of the Australian detective that
has driven the spieler away. Not much. His
presence in London is in compliance with the
irresistible law of supply and demand. And his
success there is the natural result of the hard
training he has gone through. The man who has
made his own money is a hard subject to
welsh, as compared with the one who has in-
herited the coin, and most Australians who
have much that is worth stealing have made it
themselves, or helped their fathers to make it.
The person who has had to make a living by
welshing that kind of person in the intervals
when no imported hereditary Juggins was avail-
able must indeed be a hard case. He became
one by a process of natural selection. With the
material he had to work on the swift shark sur-
vived, and the slow shark went to gaol.
“Vic.”: It is understood that Rupert
Clarke’s mansion of Cliveden (Melbourne), Jong
the abode of Mrs. Janet Clarke, is in the market,
as likewise the equally large, or larger, Ruperts-
wood, at Sunbury. Further, it is alleged that
Rupert is going to be a permanent absentee in
Europe, if he
can manage it.
From which the
conclusion will
he reached that
he is not unwill-
ing to follow
W ren’s exa mpi e
and draw his
neck out of the
collar of the
Meynell and
Gunn manage-
ment at the
Theatre Roykl.
The saying has
always been
that Rupert did
not care for
Ruperts wood.
The place was
his father’sidol.
Always there is
at the back of
this kind of
sentiment the
notion of found-
ing a great
family estate.
The demesne of
O’lShanassy, at
Tara, in Cam-
berwell, an d
that of Sargood,
at Rippon Lea,
are instances;
but they both
came tonought.
However, the
Chirnsidesstick
to Werribee.
It is rumored
that Melba has
her eye on
Rupertswood.
From the hill
at the back
you can see the tiny house in which lived
Rupert’s grandfather, W. J. T. Clarke the
First. What is to become of Cliveden? The
tip is that it will become a fashionable lodging-
house, unless it is taken (with its superb ball-
room) for the residence of the Victorian State
Governor.
SWEARING OFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne’s new central station at Flinders-street is
to be opened about the end of June. “It is understood,”
says the Argus, “ that it is not intended to have an
official opening ceremony in connection with the comple-
tion of the station.”
The whistles blow and the swing-doors crash,
And the train goes out—from the opened station !
VVe ain’t so flash since the Sunshine smash,
And the loud, wild cry of the lorn relation.
No glasses clink and no dishes clash,
And the turkey’s throat has known no wringing.
We cut our dash at the Sunshine smash —
There’s nobody left to start the singing !
Oh, food is dust and toasts are trash,
While memory crowds us always, leaving
No room for a splash—for the Sunshine smash
And the bill for the bloodshed have left us grieving.
No more the seductive, purring plash
Of fizz off the ice will absorb our sorrow.
Remember?—the hash at the Sunshine smash?
Why, we may be in a smash to-morrow !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
THE BRYIDDISH SOLDIER BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Jewish Bovs’ Brigade, numbering 1 150,000, have
joined the Baden-Powell Scouts in a bod} 7 . —Cable item.
We’ve got a gallant soldier boy who makes us bow in
shame,
For Tommy Atkins, once we thought so fine,
Is shown quite amateurish at his own beloved game
Beside our little Issy Schlenterstein ;
He can draw a scheme of tactics; he can plot and
strategise ;
He can track ’em like a blackfellow, and shoot;
But, if you’d see the time
That he really is sublime,
Picture Issy
Getting busy
With the loot!
He’s got a soul for music that is fit to beat the band ;
You couldn’t guess the interest he takes ;
When any gun’s disabled, he won’t even lend a hand,
Unless at least a score per cent, he makes ;
And when we’re burning farms, he’s got Australia down
and out ;
In oils he is an artist of repute ;
And you’ll find him looming large
When the order comes to charge—
But no story
Tells his glory
Like the loot!
“ Fatigue ” he isn’t having and he don’t like drill a bit,
And the uniform’s too simple for his taste ;
He’d like to have some diamonds round the top to
brighten it,
And half a pound of watch chain near the waist.
But it’s got a lot of pockets, and that makes him satisfied
That some fine day they’ll all be bearing fruit,
For his comrades all can tell
That the day the shot and shell
Start to whiz, he
Will be busy
With the loot.
His skill in big financial deals and making books is such
Each horse and tent and sabretache is his ;
And, when the campaign’s fairly on, he almost holds as
much
As his pa, who made the Empire what it is.
While the lands we fight and conquer he has got a mort-
gage on,
And the cash he’s got the experts can’t compute,
For where’er the army goes
There’s an instinct in his nose
Leading Issy
To get busy
With the loot.
N.S.W.
JASON.


" Reported Ifcre is-fi >c a Bird Pay for children,
s|>eciaJ lessonS'l n School %xr
-\o 'Kye h^ °\ birdie.
SOME?5 OME-
? s
L
c
/ Cjov r
/■CoM\y Aeeej,iW
0 rc^-A"^/^
screcall ox^l
i ImberiaJ OHic^ Whaf ! A*®^*'
Di'e^dnoaoni"! .•riiao'Ktj sc^k
It?e ro-ttcrs To defer rfe •Yfitfer'tjll »e*F con—^ffcj
The. \
Otfj
ftird I
(vetry /,
wU;
\f\r^
V o*'
J-
, \\c< foYflsJ t
Pfept^N.
|?ro|>oS c i 1° jN>
"f'i*e<=l iraoiWi+her
"The ld«aJ If itfe Kofesvon of-#fe. ? -
lap*/ isn't - Women) WqyK, Vvhart~ IS .
The la - '*'
li&c, refused f>er-
wv^ion -fo 'Hi.lf- a^do^et)
Indies. To J©i*i s€,
oc i aTTon."
I°O K
A i
~s e
I7<2.vy R.^.'lw'^y
S^ul, "lie V\ c
CiovT *lol~~glo
■To Kill ; A
Afov'iv>s-)"2> *■><:<? |
’.— r-Co
) hzrdly li<« 'ho
\\ 'fo <do H" !
by "tone o|"- ine
fuS*on y i+'is
uneasy 'to "hov/ much op the
[,WaJ sT]ow lia*
a<^y. -——
The old ■.— I do*l"
Quite. liKe you ooino
Fredra-de
-fellow^, Alfred, you'll be
\mL \or Qe'ttiiio Your Pro-
'tec/fTon & Defence
%c else ,
Idov>t~T^ihK
Vy ! "
VAIf red: Nof s+Ai^Vf
M& ] Vlw
-jfUy er tfjey
,-fe -HU er —.
V\ t*]Qr, <y .Vfe^jerhVi V) -
m? w - if-..
ioJ T'
X
-^ €K of>K*i«- i* /\elbeMKoe.
Adb l)o \ky o[ije y e *r, i<*Vo, on "jjointda'fy *
is
invifc4 to 3 International
Conferences
lb«s haye'te Sicfy [
EVENTS OF THE MOMENT.


©olfes f life's
Schnapps * Schnapps
A PURE SPIRIT, SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
... LUCKY ...
BLACK OPAL.
Exquisite Black Opal
and Diamonds, £l4.
Black Opal and
Olivines, £7 7s.
Choice Black Opal
and Diamonds.
£lO 10s.
Special Black Opal
Centre and two
Diamonds, £l5.
Marian Crawford writes of it in “ Soprano ”
as follows: —
“ I wish you good luck,” he said lightly.
“ Thank you,” she answered ; “ one can never have too much of it —never ; get a talisman, a charm, a
‘ Jadoo ’—a Black Opal is the best; but if you choose that you must get it yourself—you must buy
it. or earn it, otherwise it will have no effect.”
We get these gems direct from the mines. We cut them in Sydney.
We mount them. We carry the largest stock (unset) in Australia.
We export them.
Plain Figures—Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ J. 0.” : I know of a small squatter in one
of the moderately civilised districts of.N.S.W.
whose capacity for diddling his employees out of
their wages amounts to genius. His very best
BROTHERS IN ADVERSITY.
“ Could yer give us the price of a bed, Mister? ”
“ Cer’ainly, ole cook! You been (hie) locked
out too ?”
effort was in the case of a servant girl. Some
three months’ wages were due her, and just as she
wanted the money she was accused of stealing
jewellery, and it was found in her box
in the presence of witnesses. Who put
it there is another matter, but it was
found there. The squatter looked with an eye
of shock and loathing on the scared girl and told
her privately she was liable to seven years in
gaol, but out of pity he would hear the case him-
self, in his capacity as a J.P. (He isn’t a J.P.,
but real genius can surmount small difficulties like
that.) The girl was convicted in the dining-room
and sentenced to sign a confession of her guilt, to
forfeit all wages due, and to do her domestic
duties for nine months without salary. And the
bluff actually came off.
“ Yarrum ” : Ever noticed how cursing
and whiskers go together? There are, in the one-
cow town which I inhabit down the N. S.W.
South Coast, just nine whiskered men, and they
are blasphemers every one. Of the clean-shaven
blokes, on the other hand, I don’t know one that
has ever got beyond a plain damn or two daily.
It has been the same, too, in every town I’ve been
in, and I’ve been all over the State. I’ve never
in my travels met a smooth-faced man who
could curse enough to get himself locked up bv a
fair-minded policeman. Once, at a Sunday-
school picnic on the Castlereagh, a hairy
butcher swore so outrageously over a tug-
of-war that he blistered the rope, which
parted in the middle, letting both teams down on
their best pants. Two parsons and a school-
master fled from the scene in horror. Again, at
Quean beyan, I once heard a hairy publican give
a tidy audience, including a policeman, a good
dollar’s worth of cursing over a dog that wasn’t
worth registration. John Dunn was so weakened
by the flow that he was unable to run the hairy
thing in. On Monaro I rode 25 miles one Sunday
to hear a man curse. He was supposed to be
an artist at the game, but I was disappointed.
His effort was feeble, and far behind what I had
previously heard from a mad woodcutter who
carried more wool. Microbes, or something, got
into our champion blasphemer’s whiskers last
Empire Day, and he was clean shorn. His cursing
went right off until the beard developed again,
and that is what started me thinking that cursing
and whiskers must go together. Mind you, I
don’t regard what we hear from most of the
blokes about Sydney as cursing. That is only mud.
From “Carte Rouge,” who seems to do
the ancient mariner act by the edge of Cook
Strait (Maoriland) :
Have a landsman’s knowledge of the Seven Seas, and
of some of the places where the waters connect between
them, and I am always interested in anything pertaining
to the salty wastes. Hence I pass on some gleanings
from the experiences of a settler with 40 3 7 ears’ know-
ledge of Cook Strait and the city' of Wellington’s front
door.
(1) How’s this for ebb and flow ? There is one place
near Sinclair Head where the tide runs westward for 22
hours out of the 24—it can only be seen running the
other way during the surplus two hours. Even then it
sometimes forgets the paltry two hours !
(2) Fishing nets set in bays situate on either side of one
headland have been found transposed-- not in isolated
cases by any means —and until the fishermen learned that
the tides were doing it, blanky noses and blackened eyes
were of frequent occurrence among members of the
various fishing factions !
(3) The far-famed liarori Rip is worst on a calm day,
when the meeting of a north-west and a southerly
current causes the edge of the rip “to stand up like a
paling fence,” as my informant put it. The Rip itself
may be compared with a fast-boiling pot, and varies from
a few hundred yards wide to a mile or more, and may
extend a few miles or reach right across Cook Strait, as
the Spirit of Evil and Cussedness chances to move it.
From the description of a man who rowed in a small boat
within a few yards of the fence-like edge, The Rip must
be a Sheol of a sight.
(4) Tides may run into any of the Terawhiti bays at
the side, and be joined by other tides, coming up the
other side, and then the joint tides will run down the
centre of the said bay—in fact, logs brought in by the
tide keep on going round and round for hours at a time
before being cast up or taken clear to sea.
(6) There are hardly two tides of a like strength and
direction anywhere between Terawhiti and the South
Island, and nobody knows anything about them for
certain. One old fisherman, who has earned his scran
for years around Terawhiti, when asked about the tides
only gave this reply. “Tides? What do I know about
the blamed things? Go and ask someone who knows
more about ’em than I do ! ” And then silence gripped
him firm!
(6) In conclusion, Cook Strait is an enigma altogether,
and both passengers and skippers can but trust that their
luck is on the ascendant, and do their best if a crash
comes. For me, I become so seasick that I seldom care
whether we get across or not 1
■*■★•**
Killed a carpet snake at the
Rocky River in 1886, and he measured just 18ft.
2in.; his girth, 4ft. back from the head, being
19in. The enormous brute was escaping from
a bush fire in a half-torpid, leisurely way
when mj r mate and I fell foul of him ; and
the language and excitement and enthusiasm
we expended that bright morn have yet a
saddening effect on me. We reported the
murder as soon as we reached Casino,
adding only 3ft. to the animal’s length,
and 6in. to his girth, and were promptly
informed that we were two lovely liars.
But we persisted in our assertions, and
Ted offered £5 to £1 conditionally that
they allowed him to reduce length of snake
by 4ft. and girth by Bin. Two men
instantly rushed the bet. We borrowed
the hotel-keeper’s buggy and drove to
the scene of carnage to bring in the snake.
But we found, on measuring it more care-
fully, that the money was lost, so we sold
the horse and buggy cheap and fled in dis-
guise into Queensland.
“ Coda ” —his explanation
In the absence of brudder Jack Johnsing, it gives me
much pleasure to enlighten “ Coalopolis ” re those abo-
riginal paintings in the Glenelg Valley (W. A.). Regarding
the representations of females, the faces being without
any indication of mouths, it must not be inferred from
this that the originals of the pictures had no mouths.
Women were much the same then as they are now, and
were in the beginning, and ever shall be, arid they couldn’t
keep their mouths still long enough for the artist to
draw them, so he had to omit them. The broad head-
dress is most likely the original, or aboriginal, Merry
Widow hat. “ Coalopolis ” has evidently never seen the
Darlot tribe of niggers at dinner, or he wouldn’t allege
that those kangaroos in the Glenelg caves were far better
finished than anything done by the modern aborigines.
After the bucks have had their whack, and the dogs
and gins have prospected around in the tailings, so
to speak, there isn’t anything on this earth that
has a more finished appearance than a Murchison ’roo.
The figure ten feet high is plainly a prophetic painting
of Bruce Smith, as seen by himself, and the five charac-
ters of Asiatic aspect go far to confirm this. Bruce’s
label would naturally have an Asiatic aspect. The sculp-
tured head with the hollow in it is probably meant for
Joe Cook. As I haven’t seen the features, I can’t say for
certain, but the rest of the description fits Joe all right.
The long procession of rude human figures discovered by
Captain Flinders is undoubtedly meant for football
barrackers, the rudeness of a football barracker being
beyond question. The reddish tinge about them is
merely the reflection from their language.
THE MELBOURNE CUP WAS OVER.
B OSS COCKY (at drafting gate): “Hi, why the blank don’t you keep them sheep running in
the race?”
NEW CHUM EMPLOYEE: “'Cause I thort that there old ewe won.”
“ O.” : The most unblushing aboriginaliar
lias been outclassed by a Mr. Williams, of Eng-
land, who has invented a sexaphone. It consists
of a small metallic strip with a weight attached.
Its principal use in England is in connection with
eggs. When held over an egg it vibrates like a
pendulum, or revolves in a circle, or stands still.
(Mr. W. T. Stead says so.) If it vibrates, the
future bird will be a hen. If the thing revolves,
it won’t. If it stands still, the egg is just egg. It
is infallible. Mr. Williams has tried the sexa-
phone in thousands of cases, and has been success-
ful every time. Its sphere of action is not, how-
ever, confined to eggs. It will determine the sex
of human beings, armadillos, eels, guinea pigs,
rabbits, white mice and hedgehogs. The descrip-
tion given is so exact that I have made a sexa-
phone for myself, and I am creating a sen-
sation in Enngonia and other cities on the
Warrego. There is not a bush creature
within 100 miles whose sex has not been
definitely determined, and I am pleased
to state that, to decide bets, snakes have
been sent me from as far away as Camoo-
weal. Unfortunately there are a few
scoffers living about here. One of them
borrowed my sexaphone and held it over
a buggy. He and his crowd laughed and
said the buggy was a lady. I afterwards
found a female cockroach under the
seat. Another hoodlum diagnosed a
tank as a male. I then pointed out a
gentleman frog swimming in the water.
I am now trying it on photographs, and find
that the instrument will work just as well a
if the original were present. I have experi-
mented on photographs of a number of eminent
people, and the results, in some cases, were simply
amazing.
* * * *
“The Undersigned” : Furious and venom-
ous is the jealousy of Oldest Inhabitants, First
White Children, and other early humans. I know
two veterans, each of whom claims to be the first
white child born in Melbourne. This quaint boast
is carried into the various suburbs, and into each
municipality, from Williamstown to Box Hill,
and from Essendon to Sandringham. Each of
these places shelters a citizen or citizeness who
claims .to hold the local F.W.C. belt. In a
suburban train, the other day, an acquaintance
mentioned casually to me that he had arrived in
Melbourne in 1887. I replied that I had first seen
the Yarra in 1879, and my companion said some-
thing about getting amongst the old identities.
At once a grey, old man with funny feet, who sat
opposite, leaned over and said, somewhat warmly,
that if we were looking for real crusted old in-
habitants he would hand in a nomination, as he
was of the vintage of 1857. After tendering this
information, he subsided, with the air of a man
who considered he, as the genuine old goods, stood
in a class by himself, albeit not wholly : in-
tolerant of interlopers. An older man, next
to him, who had eyed the boom-time passenger
without emotion, and who had regarded the im-
migrant of 1879 with a supercilious glance, glared
at the man of 1857 and smoked hard. Then he
broke a silence which was becoming oppressive.
“I like,” he said, in an impersonal way, appa-
rently to a parcel on the rack above, “I like (puff)
to hear about these pioneers .” (Puff, puff.)
“ Why, see here ” (this to him of 1857), “ I was
in Melbourne in 1846, and there are any number
of’em still about who would sniff at me if they
heard me calling myself a pioneer.” After which
he continued to make smoke angrily and in large
clouds.- The 1857 man took his snubbing in good
part, and was proceeding to make a few well-
chosen remarks to the ’forty-sixer; but I had to
leave the train, and so missed any debate that
went on between the two oldsters. But I have
regretted that there were only four of us in that
box. Had there been another, no doubt he would
have dated back to 1838, or, peradventure, might
even have been a fellow-passenger of John Pascoe
Fawkner. lam dubious of these early immigrants
or natives, and have known two or three of them
SIGNBOARD SARCASM IN THE
NEVER-NEVER.
to be bowled out by rude people who asked quest-
ions. By the way, as one point for young Old
Inhabitants it may be urged that on laying the
foundation of one’s story, the very first considera-
tion is that he should learn and remember the
name of at least one ship that arrived in Port
Phillip in the (alleged) year of his debut.
* *
“ Marloo ” : The creek in which I drown
my worms is shallow in places, and the pebbly
bottom shines-through the Clearwater. In one
such spot three eel-tailed 1 catfish have pegged out
their claims, and removed all the pebbles from a
circular patch in the bed of the creek. These
patches, locally termed catfish rings, are as regu-
lar in shape as a wheel, and vary in diameter from
3ft. to 9ft., according to the size of the whiskery
fish that make them. Don’t know what they do
with the rings, but they resent intrusion. If
another fish meets a ring he swims round ; should
he attempt to cross, he has to fight for it. I
threw some small stones on to one selection. The
holder left hurriedly, but next day he was there
again, and all the stones had been shifted.
TO JOHANNA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Johanna, Champion Dairy Cow of the World.
Record for one year—Milk, 27,432'51b. ; average test,
3'64 per cent. ; fat, 998"261b. —Inscription beneath, a Cer-
tain Female’s portrait in Sydney Telegraph.
I’m goin’ with a girl called May
Becos, y’ see,
She’s a good milker, so they say;
An’ ’er and me
Will be alright s’ long as we
Kin make a do ;
Bit I would give up twenty Mays if I 'ad you I
(Oh, Gawd ! Oh, Gawd !
If I ’ad you,
Jo’anner !)
I brought th’ paper up larst night
T’ read t’ May,
W’en she says, “ ’Ere ! Come near th’ light!
Them’s cows, ain’t they ? ”
Me voice was choked. I looked away.
“ Oh, ’arf a mo ! ”
I nays to ’er, impatient like. (I’d seen you, Jo !
“ Them’s cows, ain’t they l ”
Them words to you ! . . .
Jo’anner 1!).
“ Mis’ ’Odgkinson ? ” I says, “ Enuf!
You ’ave forgot
Yourself! ” Then she gets in a ’uff
An’ says, “ Oh, rot!
D’ye mean t’ say them things is not
What I ses ? ’Pon
M ! word I 'ate th’ silly way that you goes on I
I sez they’re cows ! ” ...
(I could a swore,
Jo’anner 1).
“ Mis’ ’Odgkinson,” I says, “indeed
You are quite right!
But, if you’ll ’ave th’ grace t’ read,
I think t’-night
You’ll ’poligise— (lt’s only right /),
F’r.what, t’ me
Seems very near undoo familiaritfee !
Them there is cows
But nob just cows! ”
(Jo’annbr !!)
She snatched th’ paper with a sneer
An’ read out slow
Your record and your title, dear,
Then she says, “ Oh-h ! ”
Like that! She felt ashamed I know. ...
“ I’ll tell yer true,"
I fiays, “ I'd rather own that cow than marry you //”...
(It ’urt poor May...
But it was true !
Jo’anner!)
But May’s a girl with lots o’ sense,
An’ she loves me ;
So, w’en we reached ’er father’s fence
She says, “ ’Arry !
Come up t’morrer night t’ tea....
An’ now come ’ere !...
Oh yes, I’m jealous, but 1... ’ardly blame yer, dear !! ”
(I reckon we
Will do reel well,
Jo’anner !).
N.S.W.
THE CHRONIC DAIRY FARMER.


POSTAL EDUCATION
BEARS GOOD" FRUIT
ss
£5O
%
58
High Salaries and splendid prospects an
opened up to those young men and womei
who use rightly thetr spare evening hour;
Tuition. Besides all general educational
yf subjects we teach by easy and simple
ft yet thorough methods;
gt- Bookkeeping, Business Penmanship and
»' Correspondence, Arithmetic, Shorthand,
Typewriting, etc.
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,"
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, etc.
"HOME STUDY."
STOTT &r H OARE’S
,/BUSINBSS COLLEGE
MOORE. STREET
As the tendency nowadays is to deaden
pain instead of curing the disease that causes it, a
great deal of opium and other narcotics are used
in the manufacture of medicine. This is especi-
ally so with cough mixtures. Such medicines are
worse than no medicine at all, for the effect the
narcotic has on the brain and nervous system is
most dangerous.
For this reason we want to impress upon you
the importance of using Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, for this remedy contains no opium or
other narcotic.
This is not merely a statement of the manu-
facturers’, but each bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy contains the Government’s analysis,
showing that it has been officially declared free
from all narcotics.*
YOU CANNOT FEEL GOOD
When your digestion is out of order. Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules digest what you eat, thereby curing
the cause of your indigestion. Obtainable everywhere,
price, 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 tabules.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprietor
“Henry Phelfchatt ” : After wide experi-
ence of worked-out diggings, I have come to the
conclusion that the one-time richness of certain
gullies, breaks, and other depressions on the sur-
face of this State is purely hypothetical, not to
say mythical. Half a century ago California Tom,
or some other unskilled moiler of the sort, would
go forth, accompanied by his mate, to prospect.
Tom would shut his eyes, heave his pick over his
head (a favorite method of choosing a spot in the
early days), and punch down a hole where the
weapon landed.. His mate would follow suit. If
it proved a duffer they left with great prompti-
tude. Later on, Colonial Charlie and his mate
would espy the holes. Charlie, being a thinker,
would speedily deduce the falsity that the second
hole only came to be sunk on the strength of the
prospect obtained from the first, and the two of
them would work feverishly for several days, and
disfigure the earth some more. Afterwards others
would sink to pick up the
trail of gold. That there
was a trail was plainly
evident on
account
IMITATION THE SINOEREST FLATTERY.
JACKEROO (dropped by the coach half a mile from
the station): “ Hey, fellow, how do I arrive
at the station?”
FELLOW (over for mail, doing his best to rise to
the eye-glass tradition): “Walk, you blanker,
walk!”
of the amount of work done, and every hole became
additional evidence in support of the deception.
The process would be repeated at intervals until
the gully presented a melancholy, worked-out
appearance. Then the most recent fossicker,
under the direction of a “ layer-on,” would work
the few remaining solid blocks where it “used to be
rich.” Now this 1900 generation looks at old
workings with a speculative eye, and marvels how
the old hands ever got through their cash. At
odd times a few of the more practical make dili-
gent search on the hillside for the lode. These
“wild cat” gullies usually bear the name of the
original discoverer. This one'would be handed down
to posterity as California Gully, after California
Tom, who originally closed his eyes and threw' his
pick at things generally.
GASTRONOMICAL RECKLESSNESS.
MISSIONARY (arguing): “ Excuse me! I disagree with you!’"
DUSKY PARTY: “ O, I’ll chance that!”.
“J.G.”: Be “ Janor’s ” whoop for tree-
felling as the most pleasurable form of bush toil
(B. 13/5/’O9). Plainly, he has done most of his
tree-felling in a pine grove or other soft spot. He
should sample the joys of tree-felling in one of
our box forests, where the axe rings on the tree as
if the latter were a column of steel —which, to all
intents and purposes, it is. After belting such a
shrub for some hours, “ Janor ” will perhaps get a
scarf big enough to put his hand in—that is if his
axe hasn’t meanwhile flown to pieces, or the
edge of it, instead of going into the
tree, has not curled up and gazed at him.
Assume that, after he has toiled and blasphemed
for hours or days, according to the size of the
tree, and run up a tidy bill at the local store for
axes and axe-handles, he gets his prey
down. It has to be split into posts.
Another day ortwo is spent sawing the
fallen stick into splitting lengths.
Then half a ton of mauls, wedges, and
other ironmongery must be humped to
the fallen forest giant, or sapling, as
the case may be, and work recommenced.
The first few hours will be occupied in
a vain attempt to induce the smallest
wedge to enter the end of the log. Mostly
it will refuse to oblige, notwithstanding
the language used re it (the tree) and
its mother, and all its relations. Possibly,
after much inducement, the wedge is
rammed into the log about an inch. It
is at this stage that the accursed thing
jumps out and hits the striker in the eye,
nose or brow. A heavy broadaxe is com-
mandeered, with the object of cutting a
groove, something under a foot deep, along
the log. “ Groovin’,” splitters call this
process. After a lot of labor with the
broad-axe, the toiler starts his wedges
going again. Sometimes they go all right;
mote'often they don’t. Occasionally, after
all this graft and profanity, you have to
give the logs best, and hump your iron-
mongery to another tree; and if your luck
is in you get one that you can split up. But
you are mighty lucky if, as the result of a week’s
work in the forest, you average 25 posts a day,
working from jackass to jackass. And if you
muster up enough courage to charge a cocky or
squatter more than £1 per hundred, he foams at
the beer-orifice and threatens to sool his blood-
hound On you.
■* * * *
.“Matchbox”: Bush dentistry item. Had
an infernal toothache the other day, when Jim
(or was it Bill ?) dropped along and let Matilda
down at the door. With the eye of a practised
observer, he saw my complaint. “I’ll have it
out for ye,” he said. Any oasis in a desert is
better than none. So I let him operate. He tied
a piece of fine hemp round the tooth, led me to a
red gum post, and hitched me up. “Now, stand
back a bit,” he said. “Get the rope taut.
Hold yer ’ead back.” I did all these things.
Then of a sudden die swore at me wildly, and
called me a liar, and whirled a great hairy knob of
fist straight at my nose. I jerked to avoid it.
There was a vast world-snapping sensation and
I was free, while the tooth remained tied to
the post in my place. I believe some fancy opera-
tors don’t work this way, but tie you to a post and
tie your tooth to a horse, and then wallop the horse ;
or else lead you upstairs and tie a brick to the
tootli and throw the brick out of the window.
But my swagman’s primitive method was effect-
ive, however plain it might be.
“S. N. Bell ” stands up for a maligned
vegetable :
The Bulletin writer who harps (6/5/’O9) on the noxious
qualities of alcoholic swank made from prickly pear is
out in his reckoning-., I speak from long and thirsty
experience. In the Sandwich Islands, where half the
country is covered with the spiny curse, the natives
crush the ripe fruit thereof, strain it, and allow it to fer-
ment. The result is a claret-like liquor, which may be
intoxicating if consumed by the bucketful, but certainly
is not otherwise. I have seen many absorb it, hut none
who was ever the worse for it. The spirit obtained by dis-
tilling this “ panini ”is a much more potent affair. It is
a colorless liquid of a peculiar, though not unpleasant,
flavor, hardly so alluring as MacTavish’s Special, but
a long way superior to arrack, sam-Shu, or even
inferior gin. While on the subject of pear, I
may say I was quite astonished on , coming to
Australia to find my old friend looked upon with so
malignant an eye. In the islands aforesaid we regarded
it as a blessing. Its succulent leaves .provided our cattle
and horses with all the water and very nearly all the food
they obtained for the greater part of the year. In parts
of the islands the livestock actually didn’t know how to
drink, for they had never even seen fresh water. We ate
the fruit gratefully ourselves, and pigs and other inferior
animals fattened wondrously on it.
WOULD NOT TELL AGAINST HIM.
PERCY FITZCLABENCE (down on his luck): “ Yes,
ye know , none of my family have evah worked
for a living.”
BILL JONES (sympathetically): “ It's the same
with me, mate. Me old man never works
’cept at liftin’ long beers, and me brother’s
the same. Still, yer’ll find they won't sling
that up ter you round here as long as yer
can put in a fair day’s graft yer self.”
“ A.P.R.” : The joys of court procedure
in the palmy days Outback ! I once attended an
inquest on the Darling. A Jew storekeeper was
on the Bench, and the jury was a wild, indecorous
lot that smelt strongly of rum. The court was a
pub parlor, and the publican was On the jury.
After some dry evidence, the foreman arose and
proposed drinks, and drinks we had accordingly.
Then the foreman proposed that the inquest “do
now adjourn.” Another seconded the motion.
The Bench appealed to the sergeant for advice,
and the latter said he didn’t know, and mean-
while the Court adjourned—that is, it put the
corpse outside. A riotous night ensued, and as
for the inquest, it is still adjourned. That was 20
years ago.
CUPID’S LETTER-BOX!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a jam-tin down the paddock.
Kickin’ careless like around —
Half beneath a bushy tussock
Where it’s easy to be found.
'Tis the sacred shrine o’ Cupid
To our Sis, an’ ev’ry night
She slips out to set the letter
Lover Jake is sure to write.
Fact is, Jake an’ Dad don’t hit it,
An’ there’s words mos’ ev’ry day—
Poor old Sis sets sad an’ moody
At the lot Dad has to say.
He says Jake ain’t gut a shillin’
An’ll never own his farm—
(Dad was broke when Mum was willin'.
Yet they never did no harm!)
Poor Mum pleads with Dad to “ding it”—
Naggin’ only welds Love’s chain,
An’ if Sis an’ Jake will marry—
Well, ’tis Love’s way o’er again I
One thing, Jake’s a steady worker—
Grafts to make a home orlright;
Cupid finds that he's no shirker
When he runs the mail at night!
When Sis hears the mopokes callin’,
An’ Dad’s playin’ “ Nap ” to win,
She gets Jake’s soft bit o’ kiddin’
Waitin’in the old jam-tin !
They’re both mighty sly about|it,
An’, their mopin’s mos’ absurd —
If it wasn’t for Dad’s barkin’
Why, we’d never hear a word !
S’sh 11! I paid a sneaky visit
To the letter-box to-day,
An’ I sniffed that there’s a splicin’
In a week or two our way 1
I guess someone’s in the secret
(Hence he chuckles with a grin),
For when I was crawlin’ to it.
Dad was at the old jam-tin !
VICTORIA.
RITA SUNYASER
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) vrillbe taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under*
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.W.H.: “Maidenhair” too uneven. Some
lines are nearly a fathom longer than others.. .The
Carrier: Not quite up to the mark, but we’ve met lots
that were worse. It may be that in a tired hour we’ve
printed some that were worse S. : “Fisherman’s
Daughter” doesn’t look original, and it doesn’t look Aus-
tralian. It smells of the Irish Sea, or the German Ocean,
or the Mull of Kintyre, or anywhere thereabouts Joe :
“Shuffle in Souls” doesn’t strike us in the right place
somehow... .0.A.G.: Quaint and pleasing style about
“F. Lantern,” but the climax is disappointing Kiah
Q. : “ Wynack’s Diversion” rather slight The Boy:
Have a fear that you have overdone the “Brown Girl”
Millicent: Don’t agree with your views on the even-
ing star. Regard it as an over-rated constellation
J.A.O’D.: “ Mackenzie ” eminently improbable. Theidea
of a pious Highlander not wanting to die and go to
Heaven passes all understanding F.W.S.: Com-
monplace E. Johnston : The fact (in two verses) that
you kissed the other fellow’s best girl is duly noted
Grass-tree : (1) Pictures may he any size, but, if they
have to be re-drawn they are paid for as suggestions only.
(2) Jokes—real, live jokes, that is: not the mouldy
corpses of old jokes—are acceptable, with or without
illustration. (3) Good MSS. which, however, may not
suit The Bulletin, are forwarded to The Lone Hand for
consideration ; and the other way about. But the things
you send are horrors... N.P.: Decrepit yarn Learner:
Cruel of the girl to leave you at the “ laving flood ”
(Irish girl, mayhap ?) -Derf Commor : Your prodigal
husband is a horror. May use par Jackeroo: No room
for Wilcannia’s abortive efforts to “ put a lump of iron
in the side of the Dreadnought ” by means of a concert...
C.X.C. : January 1, 1901 R.C. : A foolish joke is as
bad in old English as any other way W.A. :No offers
for poem asking England’s permission for Australia to
build an “ embryotic fleet.” Loyal, etc. : Hockey
doggerel declined....J.C.D.: It’s dynamite, not hasty
fifth-rate verse, that’ll stir the public out of indifference
to the White Plague J. Smart P. : Insinuation that
good girls are out-of-date repelled with becoming wrath.
Louis M.: Pessimistic edition of the Seven Ages—
which isn’t itself a very cheerful document, when you
come to think of it A. Mcß. : The tears that filled our
eyes as we read your pathetic story about the big babes
lost in the Bush, floated your MS. into the W.P.B
G. : Your “ ballade” confirms us in the belief that a
half-caste aboriginal “ maiden ” is not a thing to write
poetry about W. Emb. : Sorry, but on amatter of that
sort can’t take the uncorroborated say-so of a man who
gives a wandering vessel, as his address Signet: If
that’s your most thrilling experience, you’ve led an un-
eventful life. We often get more stirring yarns from
oysters Ropata : Don’t care to ; it’s too much like
passing ourselves the butter W.G. : Once more, space
simply isn’t available to acknowledge paragraphs
Modest Crust: The yarn that hangs on a pun drops into
the basket every time V. de P. f Don’t know what it
is ; the paper doesn’t guarantee it....D.D.D.: Well, on
the enclosed advt. it doesn’t seem a very dark swindle,
after all, seeing that the line “ A Building Allotment for
a Shilling ” is in the biggest type in the whole notice....
N.J.P.Q. : The drunken gentleman who has three boots
off and t’other boot on is .not. worth handing down to
posterity Miles : Cold print not a suitable medium for
an outburst which implores Australian hearts to “ burn
and glow with arms in hand.”... .N.R.W.: Crow poem
buried Paul C. : May use, but it would have stood a
better chance if you had been more careful, metrically
speaking A.H.G.N. : Lie might have scraped through
if it had been Australian and shorter and more wiry
J.O.A. : Muse too lengthy by miles M. Murray : That
unpleasant story about the boy who was to be “ learned,
not smelled ” has been going round the world for 20
years. And y'ou have the front to offer it as a recent
happening “ in a mining village in Central Victoria.”....
H. : This paper is not taking any “Looking Back ” serials.
Sufficient unto the Millennium shall be The Bulletin there*
of Signet: Only suitable for a small-boy’s paper
C. Ournow : Such an anaemic little thing, we couldn’t
refrain from giving it a breakfast of rejected gohannas
before executing it.. ~S,G. : Why should science grieve
at the earth fulfilling its destined plan? The Chump:
Yes, “rotters.” Carlos (Vic.): Manufacturing verse is
not in your line. Try sausages... .V.G.D. : More like
after supper than “After Dickens.”... .C.C. : Mayuseone.
....M.G.M. : Too MarieOorelli-ish... .T.A.B. : Australians
don’t care a button about Mrs. Asquith’s underclothes....
Faithful: No urgent demand for dreary stories about
ghosts that throw travellers out of bed, or alleged mur-
derers of Chinamen... .H.G.M.S.: Melancholy hymn de-
clined with pious scorn Grex : Regret to hear that the
local baker and the local rev. failed in their motion to
have The Bulletin kept out of the Mortlake (Vic.) Insti-
tute, on account of its Yankee book-selling evangelist
cartoon. This soulless paper, with a hankering for
sixpences, simply' hates being read on the cheap, at
Mortlake or anywhere else J.P.: “Dutchman” good
of its kind, but not quite our kind Starlight:
Fair jingle... .Hans J.: Better consult a local man
Jacq : “ Milkman’s” verses too thin—no doubt from force
of habit Benita : “ Fate ” hung in the balance awhile ;
then its jerkiness landed it among the goats....
J.T. : Not quite out of the race, but when last seen was
making for the W.P.B F.W.0.: After its “tender
last farewell,” your poem faded away gently... M.F.:
Perhaps one of the mournful quartette will cause readers’
eyes to overflow Z.: Poem about pig-farmer, who in-
considerately developed gluttonous vegetarianism, too
much for our nerves. Search-warrantjout for items you
mention: to one of them the polite answer that turneth
away wrath was given in B. 27/5/’O9 Millicent: Too
man.v feet in one verse and too few in another... .The
Boy: May use your verses about the pretty Papuan....
Veracious: Your generous offer to supply us with
“matter in Poetry', Prose or Rhyme, Political and other-
wise ” enthusiastically declined. ..The Orphan: Unsatis-
factory narrative about a low-spirited ventriloquist, a
dead-house and a skeleton Malim : Yes, it reads as if
it had been “composed at sea”—on a dirty night.. Te
Parae: Doesn’t appear to be any' more of a fraud than
the usual “free distribution ” business. And the man
who is taken in by, that at this time of day is almost past
protecting H. Hustle: The Bulletin only publishes
sermons—rhymed or otherwise—in its Sunday edition,
and this has been unavoidably' held over for quite a long
time now owing to pressure on its advertising columns.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
O.A. W. : “ Gold Rush ” a poor variation of a very old
Hebrew joke . ..G.O’B. : Sketch of little account, and
the attached jest is almost revolting Scotchie : Too
late; so the other bad points of it needn’t be even
alluded to.


A mob of cattle were recently being shipped to a steamer lying at
Olebe Island, when 20 managed to break away. The police were immedi-
ately informed, and arrangements were made for their arrest forthw it •
Very few of the bullocks decided to -go quietly. notwithstanding
gentle persuasion by the law in the form of tail-twisting and honeyed
words. Thirteen were eventually arrested and locked up on a charge
of resisting the police and “ tearin' me uniform.”
Addressing a guard of cadets and boy scouts, the Gover-
nor reminded the lads that they would soon be men, and
exhorted them to live for their country.
A country police constable bitterly complains of how officers of the
department call upon subordinates to cut firewood for them in their
spare moments. He has been engaged cutting wood two or three days
a week, and asks that some steps should be taken to abolish the game.
BUT THERE ARE OTHERS.
Elsie (Girl Scout): “ Mamma, shall I soon be a
man, too, do you think?”
“The liquor traffic is a natural and unabashed and
the only chance for the police to get fair play is to let the K
private clothes into localities where they are not known. G. O. Ulark.
Mudgee, Wednesday. Ouring the past few
weeks residents in the locality of Mudgee have
been astonished to see a peculiar animal,
about sft. high, standing on his two legs.
The animal was covered with long white
hair, and when seen was uttering cries
which disturbed the peace of the
neighborhood. From the above description, “ The Bulletin "
recognises in this uncanny creature the Lost
Freetrader.
When a weary country copper’s not a-copping,
(Chords) Not a-copping.
When he hasn’t got his eye upon the “ crook,”
(Chorus) Upon the •< crook.”
He has to spend his leisure time a-chopping
(Chorus) Time a-chopping.
Firewood the sergeant’s dinner for to cook.
(Chorus) For to cook.
(Chorus) When constabulary duty has
been done, has been done,
A policeman's lot is not a
happy one.
»* The girls have no
time to get married.”
Testimony of a
“ Hello-girl ” before
the. Postal Commis-
sion.
Bobby (to slop salesman): “ Now, if you will fit me out with a straw
hat, an a fash’nnbie pair o’ boots—l mean something like yours,
you know my disguise will be complete ! ”
THE CAPITAL SITE.
The site chosen is in the
immediate vicinity of Can-
berra Church, and has been
selected after careful con-
sideration of the natural
advantages, possibilities of
water supply, and other
essential features.
“ Other essential features” are generally to be found
in the vicinity of a church.
Married in haste.
‘ Do you take this man to he your husband ”
Telephone Girl : “116110! that is, I mean, yes; hut cut it shod. old
party. I must hurry back to my switch-board, or I’ll catch Pule
40327583421."
AROUND N.S.W.


GAE LIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
MANY a sturdy repre-
sentative of the great
British Empire cleans
his boots with Cherry Blossom
Polish. It satisfies his pride,
is easy on his pocket, and
takes but little effort to pro-
duce the best results.
Have you tried it yet ? You
certainly ought to get a tin—
Black or Tan—at once. Most
dealers sell them at 3d. and 6d.
each—big tins, too. Write us if
you cannot get supplied.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 33 O’Oonnell Street, Sydney.
There was a policeman (as you know,
His name must not be told).
Who was, they said, so very slow
He couldn’t catch a cold.
At last he caught a fearful cough,
And, spite discomfiture,
Remarked : “ I’ll soon be right enough
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.’’*
Builds up
Strength
As a recuperative in cases of lung,
stomach or bowel weakness or after
severe illness, Angier’s Emulsion is un-
equalled. Soothing to lungs, stomach
and intestines, a great
aid to digestion and a
splendid tonic, it is
invaluable in lung
affections, digestive
disorders, * * run-down ’ ’
conditions and all
wasting diseases. It is
the most perfect and
most palatable of all
Emulsions. For free
sample send4d. postage.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,2/9 & 4/6.
am
KS
•n
ANGIERS
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophosphites.)
Angler Chemical Co., Ld.. 7 Barrack Bt., Sydney ,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The will of Salomons, K.C., one-time of
Sydney, has been proved at £34,813. The widow
has a life interest, and at her death two daughters
succeed. Julian Salomons was married in London
in 1861 to Louisa Solomon, of Lower Edmonton,
Middlesex. He had then jtist been called to the
Bar, and on his marriage he returned to Sydney.
A few years ago Julian Salomons was a very
wealthy man, but he invested in sugar lands, and,
as he pathetically said at a public meeting, he
“had losses.”
MR. FRANK ANSTEY , M.L.A. (Victoria).
Albert Molineux, who died in Adelaide the
week before last, had seen kangaroos and dingoes
running in the principal streets of that town ;
seen three men hanging at once on the Bark
Lands ; observed German settlers ploughing with
a mixed team of a horse, a cow and a wife ; and
experienced wild delight and surprise over the
successful growing of a quarter-acre of wheat—
S.A. having been at first, for some mysterious
reason, regarded as unfit for grain crops. The
veteran, who was secretary of the Agricultural
Bureau for 14 years and agricultural editor of
the Observer for 30 years, gets much of the credit
for introducing the habit of spraying fruit trees,
the use of phosphates, and scientific farming in
general.
S. Australia’s late Labor Premier, Tom
Price, left seven children and under £l6OO. For-
tunately, the children are mostly grown up. The
youngest, a girl, with Price’s own remarkable head
of white hair, is 13 or so. The eldest, a boy, is
pushing his way up in the S.A. railways, and
two or three of the others are in the State’s
service.
The Earl of Meath—who keeps the Flag
flying and the infant braying—doesn’t let the
blessed Empire stand in the way when he
is booking his passage for a foreign tour. He
lately went out to the Straits Settlements,
for the trade of which a German subsidised
line competes with the unsubsidised ships
that fly the Union Jack. The joy and
satisfaction of having that sacred bit of
bunting always over him does not seem
to have appealed to the Earl
much, for he reached Penang
in a vessel which was labelled
“Kleist” at both ends. In
Penang he devoted part of
his one day ashore to lectur-
ing the small boys of the
Penang Free School on the
glories of the Flag; and the
small boys—with names like
Cheah Seang Keat, Che Pe and
Lee Guan Hoe—cheered madly
according to arrangements previously
made by the teacher. After that, the
Earl of Meath dined in comfort and went
back aboard the Kaiser Wilhelm boat. It
is the sort of amiable inconsistency that might be
expected from the leader of the flap and shout
brand of patriotism.
Little Cooke, who is trying to beat the
Laborites for Tom Price’s late seat at Torrens, is
about 4ft. 6in. high, but always wears a tall hat in
a struggle to disguise the fact. He once made a
shot at Federal honors, but missed the mark. He
has been Mayor of Unley, the biggest centre of
the district, and his father, a legislator of prehis-
toric times, was for over a quarter of a century
Audit Commissioner. The Labor candidate, T.
liyan, has also known trouble. He bucked up
against Speaker Coles in the district of
Wooroora, a solid Ass. stronghold, and was
badly beaten. Although the name does not
suggest such things, Ryan was once a Methodist
preacher; and it was he who persuaded Million-
aire Barr Smith to give £3OOO to wipe off the debt
from the Adelaide Trades Hall. He is young,
energetic, and optimistic, and reckons he is sure
to win on July 3. Torrens has over 40,000 voters,
and returns five members. The sitting four—
Coneybeer, Vaughan, Smeaton, and Dankel —are
all Labor members, and they are all giving Ryan
a lift. Ex-Premier Price’s widow and son also
gave him a lift by signing his nomination paper.
The Daniel Cooper, Bart., N.S. W.’s big-
gest absentee landlord, who died last week, was
the social climber in excelsis. From the beginning
of his career as heir-apparent to a millionaire
baronetcy, to its close he devoted all his energies
and most of his income to attaining and estab-
lishing a position among Britain’s “smartest”
folk. He became in turn a member of the Marl-
borough, the Turf, the Jockey Club, and the
Royal Yacht Squadron. He owned racehorses.
He gained the friendship of his sovereign.
He saw his only daughter married to a
guardsman, the nephew of an Earl. And at
long last the London Daily Mail took to
numbering him in ns society column among the
“well-known racing contingent ” at Newmarket.
After that the goblet of his bliss brimmed over,
and life had little more to offer. The new baronet
will be an even richer man than his predecessor,
for rents and land-values have risen wonderfully
in the eastern suburbs of Sydney, where the
Cooper estates are, since Federation arrived to
bring ruin on the stricken State of N. S. Wales ;
and the leases of the properties are falling in.
It is safe to predict that he won’t do less, from a
public point of view, with his cash 'than Daniel
did. The task is beyond the capacity of mortal
capitalist.
The case of a deceased N.S.W. Gent One,
whose estate has been handed over to the Bank-
ruptcy Court for realisation, ought to afford a
good argument in favor of a State Trustee with
Government backing. The dead attorney was an
ancient member of the profession, admitted over
40 years ago, and, being an old Sydney native,
had a number of estates to manage. Amongst
the unsecured creditors are the estates of Stephen
Campbell Brown, a relative, £3348 7s. 10d.; estate
of Elizabeth Evans. £2501 14s. lOd, and £2300175.;
H. E. Jones and wife, £489 14s. sd. and £1903 4s.
10d.; the Llewellyn Trust, £1477 Is. Gel.; estate of
John Maughan, £5744 19s. lOd. and £275175. lid.;
Mrs. E. Guy, Newtown, £729 16s. 4d.; estate of
John Robertson, £1836 17s. 4d. and £1677 12s. 5d.;
W. A. Toogood Trust, £lO5 17s. lid. In the
schedule is an item, £3B 135.. money advanced to
pay funeral expenses, medical attendance and pro-
bate fees, showing apparently that the Gent One
died a pauper.
“ Scrap-Metal ” writes :
Old John Macintosh, M.L.C., an ironmonger of nearly 60
years’ standing in Sydney and still going strong, waxed
reminiscent at a recent trade meeting. An excellent
memory enabled him to gossip interestingly about hard-
ware merchants of the ’forties. Most of these, it appears,
had a mania for speculating in sugar, and had bad luck
at the game. One well-known and hearty old tradesman
named Lennox lost over £lOO,OOO in this way in Fiji.
Henry Parkes, who never made money atanything, dropped
some for a time as an ironmonger near Christ Church,
Sydney. John Keep, the moneyed giant of Sydney iron-
mongers, did not arrive till after the ’fifties ; even he toiled
for half a century to amass his £75,000. Macintosh
bought goods from the founder of the Friend firm in ’42,
and he remembers Justus Scharff, of York-street, being
on the present G.P.O. site in the same decade. Present
Holdsworth-Macpherson firm is the oldest, going back in
a sense to 1828. It was originally Burdekin’s. Burdekin
got a large part of Woolloomooloo as forfeited security for
a loan made to a fellow ironmonger. Their unemotional
trade probably prevents ironmongers from being a light-
hearted race, and modern progress has not dealt kindly
with their stocks. Articles once in great demand become
obsolete without any warning. The result is that old-
fashioned establishments, as the speaker admitted, have
many tons of unsaleable stuff on their hands, unless they
have sacrificed it for old iron. Thousands of English
axes were stocked before it was realised that their steel
was not tempered to stand Australian hardwood. Things
like tinder boxes, sickles, reaping hooks, shingle nails,
oaken buckets, and candle moulds (country people once
made their own candles) have also been left high and dry
and very dusty on the shelves. So the old ironmonger
drops a tear on his old stock, and causes it to rust yet
more.
Scotch-Victorian Governor Carmichael has
one joke—the eternal Scotch joke, which consists
in saying, “I’m a Scotchman,” and then waiting
for a laugh. It always succeeds with a Scotch
audience. An English comedy company can even
score a triumph with it in Peebles or Kirkcudbright
(which is called Kair-coobry). It puts a hairy
member of the co. into kilts, and sends him on the
stage to say, “ Ah’m Scawtish, ye ken.” Then
the audience yells with laughter till the end of the
piece.
THE WRITING ON THE WALL.
Australia is not ready, and there is no need for Uni-
versal Defence.— Tory Press Statement.
THE OLD LADY: “ Foolish, disloyal nonsense!
They don’t know what they’re talking about!
WHO ARE THEY, anyhow?"
If Mitchell, the new Attorney-General of
S.A., isn’t the smallest man in public life on this
continent, he would give the winner a hard run
for his money. Mitchell kept a store in his
younger days, but being ambitious he went to
Adelaide University, graduated in Arts, and was
afterwards licensed to pursue Costs. He is very
fluent of speech, but hitherto has not gained much
influence in Parliament. Once he was a partner
of Nesbit, K.C., and his chin just about reached
up to that grey-headed stalwart’s knee.
From the Old Soldier :
Oook, the Australian No-defence Minister, talks patro-
nisingly of what he is going to get Kitchener to do when
that cold, laughterless officer comes to these parts. If
Oook only knew what is likely to happen, his meeting
with Kitchener wouldn’t be looked fonvard to with joy.
The case is like this. Kitchener of Khartoum, among his
other amiable qualities, is notorious for a quite phenome-
nal capacity for asking questions and screwing out
information. He attained a rare proficiency in the art
when he was head of the Intelligence Department in
Egypt. No one could match him when it was a question
of turning a mendacious Arab prisoner inside out. Cook
flatters himself that it will be his part to ask, and Kit-
chener’s to answer. Kitchener never answers questions ;
he may give his opinion, but he gives it only to the War
Office. Perhaps, if we could get at the truth, Kitchener’s
mission is not to advise, but to report on the actual state
of affairs. In other words, Cook is to be Kitchener’s
mendacious Arab prisoner over again. Kitchener may
enjoy it. But ’.vhat about Cook ?
In Professor David, of Sydney University,
and William Edward Parry, of the Australian
Agricultural Co., New South Wales has had per-
sonal association with the exploration of both
Poles. Parry, a captain of the Royal Navy,
after much wandering among bergs and
whales, was appointed Commissioner for the
A. A. Co. in 1829, and entered on his duties
at Port Stephens in 1830. A church,
built at his expense, still stands at Stroud.
Like most old sea-dogs. Parry was reli-
gious, and he preached twice every Sun-
day to his couple of hundred depend-
ents, using the same sermons which he
had delivered to his shipmates when
icebound in the Arctic seas. Some of
the allusions to climate, etc., were rather
inappropriate, but the congregation was
mostly asleep and paid no attention to details.
Emily Eliza McGee, a young lady with no
luck, was heard of, the other day, in a Melbourne
court. Emily first married a man who promptly
got into gaol for five years. Then she wedded in
haste a man who had just got out of gaol. And
she is only 17 as yet.
A Melbourne man writes :
Detective Macmanamnmnmny, having spent a few
days in London, a day and a half in Paris, and two or
three hours in Dublin, gave Melbourne papers his “ im-
pressions” of the detective systems in those three places.
Macmanamnmnmny, who went forth to bring a person
named Johnson back, says that in France detective work
is accomplished with “ dramatic effect.” Dramatic effect!
Any reporter who has heard “ the Master ” relate a story
of an arrest, and has then taken the trouble to verify if,
can quite understand that this modest, unobtrusive man
would not care for dramatic effect. The present writer
has in mind a case in which the arrival of a criminal from
another State was telegraphed to the C. I. Branch in
Melbourne, with minute particulars as to what hotel he
had put up at. “The Master” strolled down the
street and picked up his man. All the same,
next day’s paper had a column of guff about the
mental processes whereby the whereabouts of the wanted
man was “deduced.” In regard to the use of blood-
hounds, the famous ’tec sneers at a dog which was found
sleeping within 20ft. of the man he was hunting. Well,
at all events the dog got nearer to his quarry than Mac-
manamnmnmny did to the murderer of Mr. Bauer, or
than Sexton did to the man who killed Madge Graham, or
than Burnett did to the miscreant who cut up the body
found in the Albert Park lagoon.
This paper’s Oldest Inhabitant casts some
side lights on the Dan Cooper family and its
relations :
The original Dan Cooper came to N. S. Wales in the
first or second decade of last century, and established
himself as “ a dealer.” He married, had no children, left
his wife in the old Sandhills Cemetery, went back to
England, and died in 1853. Dan 11. was his nephew ; the
original Dan sent for his brother Tom and Tom’s children,
and set them up. Dan I. was at times in partnership with
Sol Levy, as Cooper and Levy, of Waterloo Warehouse ;
and later on the firm was Cooper, Levy and Holt. Dan
11. was educated and set up as a parliamentarian, became
Speaker, was knighted, and later on was baroneted
for his contribution to the Lancashire Relief Fund.
Dan. 11. married Betty Hill, daughter of Wm. Hill,
who had a billet as Overseer of the Lumber Yard
and Inspector of Slaughter-houses. Dan 111. was
the issue of that marriage. Brother Charles, who suc-
ceeds him, married a cousin, daughter of George Hill, of
Durham Hall, Albion-street. In the ’thirties the Hills
were nearly all in the liquor trade, occasionally taking a
turn at butchering. William Hill kept the Butchers’
Arms in Pitt-street; George Hill, the Carpenters’ Arms
in the same street; David Hill, the Wheelwrights’ Arms,
also in Pitt-street; and Dan Hill kept the William the
Fourth pub in Sussex-street. Richard Hill was the one
exception. He held aloof from all this beer and practised
as a carpenter. He carped in Sussex-street.
Died last week in Adelaide, David Nock,
the man who passed “ Nock’s Act,” tor 10 or 15
years the most talked-of law in S. Australia.
That was the beginning of the long tight against
Bung in the S. Australian Parliament; and the
crusade was, curiously enough, started by about
the mildest-mannered man that ever sat in the
House. Apart from ramming through this first
local option law, he did nothing of any con-
sequence. After he had performed his one feat,
just over 30 years ago, he told Kapunda that he
was much too exhausted to go for another elec-
tion, and he never tackled politics again.
“ Oby ” writes:—
Daniel Cooper, second baronet, whose death is reported,
was a boy of eight years when the foundation-stone of
Woollabra House was laid at Point Piper, Sydney, in
December, 1856. His father was then Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly. The stone-laying was made a
jubilation. Governor Denison, his daughters, legislators
of all brands, and the naval, military and social lights of
the day assembled. The common talk was that Daniel
Cooper, though then plain Mr., was destined to
the Peerage, and that Woollahra House was to
be the family seat while the name survived. The
Governor laid the stone, and said, in a deep, solemn
voice, “May this house remain ever in the family.”
Bishop Broughton offered up a prayer to the same effect,
and boy Daniel, now dead, placed in a cavity of the stone
a metal box containing a specimen of each then current
coin of the realm, from the £2 piece down to the quarter
farthing. But little more than half a century has scat-
tered the Coopers, and Point Piper dreams no more of a
resident peer.
HIS COVERLET.
Apparently, however, the author of the outrage is of a
literary turn of mind, for he took away with him a copy
of the Sydney Telegraph that, had been sealed in the
glass case. —News Item (9/8/’09).
And on the other hand, the poor fellow might
not he a literary bloke.
Queen Wilhelmina of Holland, now a
mamma, has made her subjects happy, but she
kept, them in great suspense through a mistake
in dates. The end of April saw the Event, but it
had been confidently announced for March. An
enterprising firm of brass-workers struck medals,
with the word “March” and a blank space for
the number; these had to be melted down and
re-cast. A municipal council baked a huge pile of
cakes and buns for the school children as a cele-
bration ; but Queen Willie remained interesting,
and the buns grew mouldy.
THE PARABLE OF WARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have seen a real fleet, and the idea of setting up a
little, ocean-going navy of our own shrinks to nothing.—
“ Whiskers” Ward, of Sydney Telegraph, in London.
Twas on a racecourse somewhere in the dear old Mother-
land
A small and timid terrier had taken up his stand.
He gazed upon the crowd, he saw the horses’ splendid
pack,
Then turned his shortened tail, and scurried wildly down
the track.
The racers soon o’ertook him, and they rolled him in the
dirt;
They trod upon his shattered tail. He thought that he
was hurt,
And lay a moment, quaking, then he squatted in the
dust,
And raised his little yelp and said : “ My brothers, this is
just 1
“ We poor Australian horses well deserve the horrid blow.
We dreamed that we were racers ; now the simple truth
we know.
Poor creatures are we at the best, can neither run nor stay.
Oh, b’lieve me, I am grateful to be humbled in this way! ”
He sneezed, and wiped a tear, and pawed his crumpled
ear, and sighed.
And straight a son of Carbine who was standing near
replied:
“That’s all right for yourself, but say, by what amazing
course
Of reasoning did you persuade yourself you were a
horse ?”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
THE STRANDS OF EMPIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Harold Begbie lias written an ode of welcome to
the press delegates in London.— Cable item.
They gilded all the statues, and they cleaned each muddv
street,
The public buildings carefully they hosed ;
They had their silk hats ironed afresh to give a welcome
meet
To organs of the fish that’s decomposed ;
They took them down to Billingsgate, and then to
Rotten Row
(Each won loud admiration and accord);
But the majesty and grandeur of the place they didn’t
know
Till ’Arold wrote his ode to Whiskers Ward.
They showed how, ’neath the Union Jack, the sun will
never set,
They spoke about the Empire and the Throne,
And showed if England, hurriedly, her language may
forget,
And drop her aitch, she always holds her own ;
But Edward grew so anxious that he kept quite wide-
awake,
And Roberts buckled on his Sunday sword,
And the population mafficked till the fog began to break,
When ’Arold wrote his ode to Whiskers Ward.
They’d come afar to beard the British Lion in his lair
And view the wonders of that icy clime,
But found to their surprise that, when it came to measure
hair,
Australia was a winner every 7 time ;
So Edward called to ’Arold to get busy with his lyre,
“ We’ve got to own,” he said, “ we’re fairly 7 floored ;
To the hair that’s grown in Sydney modern England can’t
aspire,
So just dash off some rhymes to Whiskers Ward.”
N.s. w.
A. B.


fflk
Hr#
p
/\
Z 5 h
~~7
THE HYPOCRITES
MOTHER-IN-LAW— (Jusl arrived {or a visit.) " HOW DYE DO, GEORGE!
50 GLAD TO HEAR FROM JOHN THAT YOUVE GIVEN UP
Smoking. I never permit him to smoke
•JohN-O z> 'sk! I’ve erought some good old CAJPSTAJn,
KEEP IT DARK. . ”
There is no deception about “CAPSTAN” TOBACCO
its genuine high quality and uniform excellence have
stood the test of public approval for nearly two centuries.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Boyal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
BapreMiited Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
a Winding- Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head
Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an Air
Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating
—" —■■■■■■■ ■ Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop you
will find them all illustrated and priced in Cameron & Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand
machinery. Addresses
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
Post Offioe Chambers, SYDNEY; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Street. BALLARAT•
and Pall Mall, BENDIGO. 1
IF YOU WANT TO BUY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
In a roundabout way, the Elective Ministry
idea has just had a shove forward. Bigjohn Forrest, who
h id been in three previous Commonwealth Ministries, re-
turned to his old post at the Treasury the other day, and
took up the Australian silver coinage idea at about where
he left off two years ago. The matter had been almost
completed; but two Treasurers had been sandwiched in
between, and neither of them reigned long enough to get
a grip of all the things that demanded attention. Now,
however, Forrest returns, picks up the threads at about
the point where he dropped them, and finishes the busi-
ness in a few weeks. With Elective Ministries there
Would not be all this chopping and changing and
delay'. If Forrest were the best man for the Trea-
sury he would be given a reasonable innings there,
and there would be an end to the absurdity of having six
Treasurers in five .years—Watson, Turner, Forrest, Lyne,
Fisher and Forrest again. At the Post Office the position
has beeh even worse : here, since Federation started,
the following men have ruled: —Forrest, Drake, Fysh,
Mahon, S. Smith, Chapman, Mauger, Thomas and Quick —
no less than nine of them. Of course, not one of them
had time to get the bearings of such a great business
department. One man comes along, and after a while is
persuaded of something, and orders it to be done. Then
he is fired out, and (as with the telephone rates) the new
man orders that nothing shall be done until he has
had time to go into the matter. By the time he
has gone' into the matter and been persuaded
that the thing' should be done, he will probabl.v be fired
out; and a still newer man will tackle the problem over
again. No private concern would be expected to succeed
if it had a new managing director every nine months or
so; yet until we adopt the idea of Elective Minis-
tries we shall have to put up with that sort of thing in
the great Government Departments.
* * * *-
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of
tub United States :
Income (less Added
Amounts Total Out- to
Written Off. Claims. Expenses, goings. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
189!).. 11,742,265 5,106,596 2,173,613 7,280,209 4,462,056
1900.. 12,639,530 5,403,717 2,145,201 7,548,918 5,090,612
1901.. 13,607,221 5,800,186 2,324,663 8,124,849 5,482,372
1902.. 14,438,370 6,054,346 2,609,330 8.663,676 5,774,094
1903.. 14,656,981 7,125,791 2,975,574 10,101,366 4,555,616
1904.. 17,302,203 7,583,435 3,052,345 10,635,780 6,666,423
1905.. 12,356,380 8,667,720 2,834,610 11,502,330 854,050
1906.. 14,091,717 9,178,971 2,065,068 11,244,039 2,847,678
Taken
from
Funds.
1907.. 10,806,224 9,284,554 2,053,070 11,337,624 531,400
Added.
1908.. 19,012,374 9,961,525 2,132,186 12,094,011 6,918,363
The remarkable variations shown in the net income are
due to the fact that the American insurance law requires
an annual valuation of assets ; and on the vast assets of
tuis society the variations may run into millions. For the
past three or four years the position is shown below
Income from Increase in Total or Net
Business. Valuations. Gain in Funds.
1904 .. £16,315,716 £986,487 £17,302,203
Decrease.
1905 .. 15,817,699 3,461,319 12,356,380
1906 .. 15,489,968 1,398,251 14,091,717
1907 .. 15,137,762 4,331,538 10,806,224
Increase.
1908 .. 15,059,299 3,953,075 19,012,374
Previous to the first year mentioned in this table there
had been some heavy gains in valuation ; so that really
the dazzling figures for those years were brilliant at the
expense of the subsequent years of slump. The true
progress can be best judged by the column in the second
table showing income from business proper. And that
isn’t cheerful ; it shows how severely' the Equitable suf-
fered from the American insurance overhaul.
The Equitable’s basis was all.wrong. It was a
proprietary office without adequate safeguards. Its paid
capital was and is a poor little £20,550, and the attempt
was made to protect policy-holders by limiting the divi-
dend on capital to 7 per cent. Unfortunately, when they
saw the vast size of the business and the profits, and com-
pared the figures with their own poor little 7 per cent, on
£20,550, the shareholders found other ways of getting a
bit more on to their plates. The law has now stepped in to
protect the policyholder ; but that the Equitable is still
reeling backwards from the blow is shown bv this com-
parison of total premium income :
1904 .. .. .. .. £12,931,442
1905 .. .. .. .. 12,386,891
1906 .. .. .. .. 11,646,293
1907 .. .. • .. .. 11,106,346
1908 .. .. .. .. 10,774,907
Thus in four years, in spite of the new business written
meantime, there has been a loss of £2,156,535 in annual
premium income. Surrenders have been heavy, and
claims have been about normal ; and, though figures are
not available, it is obvious that lapses have been very'
numerous. Surrenders last year equalled 52 p.c. of the
claims, and in 1907 they equalled about 55 p.c. No doubt
there are special circumstances to explain some of this very
serious scuttling out of the office. When the new American
law limited the amount of new business which an office was
to be permitted to take in a year, the Equitable decided to
quit chasing new business in countries where it had cost
most money. In Australasia it closed its elaborate offices
and handed over its affairs to David Fell and Co. as rep-
resentatives and attorneys ; and David Fell’s people must
have had a tough time explaining to people that things
were quite safe, and that when a man died his widow would
not havei to pursue the co. to N’York. No doubt the same
thing happened in other countries ; and no doubt also
thousands of people decided not to risk it, but to take
what they could get. So far as Australia is concerned,
they might have decided otherwise if the law had
given them any protection; but it doesn’t. An office
may undertake £20,000,000 of insurance in Australia on
the strength of a brass plate.
Those Australians who remained in the office
still held £3,180,791 of insurance at the end of 1907, and
thus the office stood seventh among all those doing busi-
ness in the Commonwealth. (Figures are from Knibbs’
‘ Official Year Book,” which shows the Australian insur-
ance held by the three American offices as follows :
Equitable, £3,180,791; New York Life, £2,514,637;
Mutual of New York, £2,169,155. For comparison
it may be noted that the Colonial Mutual has
£3,574,626 and the Temperance and General £2,177,459
of Ordinary insurance.) The financial position of
the Equitable and other American offices is still
i herefore a matter of consequence to Australia. Assuming
that there will be no trouble about the payment of
claims, recent changes have been all for the better. The
expense rate, which used to be beyond 20 per cent., was
last year £l4 13s. 2d. per cent, of income. In spite of the
great fall in market value of assets, the rate of interest
earned has improved ; and clearly much of the most
expensive and unproductive trimmings that hung round
the society have been shorn off. The “surplus,” or
amount available for deferred and other bonuses, was
£15,670,999 ; in other words, there is enough in hand to
provide for policies at their face value, and that much in
addition ; and the assets to represent that value are cer-
tified to. Moreover, it has to be remembered that that
lUrplus remains in spite of the great slump in values
during 1905-6-7. The wonderful things that were pro-
mised by the imaginative Equitable canvassers are not
likely to be realised; but, on present experiences, the
bonuses will still be worth having. For 1907 the actuarial
report shows that £1,746,750 was allotted. The pre-
miums for that year, as shown above, were £11,106,346;
so the bonuses (mostly deferred, of course) equalled 15'7
per cent, of the premiums, as against 36'4 per cent, in the
case of the A.M.P. last year.
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd., formed in 1903
to take over what was left of the wrecks of the City of
Melbourne Bank, the Federal Bank of Australia, and the
English and Australian Mortgage Bank: —
Deficit
(Preliminary
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Expenses).
1903 .. £3116
Dec., Reserves.
1904 .. £4,899 Mil 1753
1905 .. 4,610 Nil 6393
1906.. 9,925 41 percent = £11,389 4929
1907 .. 15,965 6 „ „ 17,083 3811
1908 .. 23,616 8 „ „ 22,777 4650
The three Melbourne boom banks mentioned above did
the usual thing—they “introduced foreign capital,” and
used it to help to inflate property values. When the
bubble burst the foreign capitalists were left with a great
quantity of assets, mostly unrealisable land. In order to
get rid of these assets and make the best use of them till
they were got rid of, three cos. were formed—the Mel-
bourne Assets Co., the Federal Assets Co., and the
English and Australian Assets Co. As the same people
in many cases had lent money to all three banks, the
three asset cos. eventually agreed to amalgamate for the
sake of economy ; and this Melbourne Trust, Ltd., was
formed. Per share of the several asset cos. the Trust’s
debentures, shares, etc., were issued as follows :
4 p.c. Trust Trust
Debentures.' Shares. Cash.
Melbourne £9 0 0 30 lid.
Federal .. .. .. 6 6 0 21 Nil.
English and Australian.. 2 2 0 7 4/3
The new concern issued 1,366,666 shares of 4s. each
and £392,485 worth of debentures. In arriving at this
share and debenture issue a valuation made in August,
1899, was used as a basis; and it was agreed that any
profits made on the sale of assets—that is to say,
anything realised in excess of the valuation—should be
earmarked, and not handed over in dividends until all
the debentures had been paid off. Federation arrived
very soon after the valuation had been made, and somehow
the curse that was going to follow was turned into pros-
perity. Surpluses over the valuation were realised almost
as a regular thing; so that a revaluation was made as at
Dec. 31, 1906. On that new basis “ the Australian assets,
which now stand at £357,514 may reasonably be expected
to produce a sum more nearly approximating £512,700,
assuming that the present policy of gradual realisation
be continued, and sales effected at prices commensurate
with those obtained during the year under review.”
(That is an extract from the directors’ report lately issued
in London).
But though the management is in London,
Melbourne got its eye on the shares ; and there is now a
very large Australian holding. For a few “insiders” in
Melbourne saw how the realisation was panning out, and
they remembered that, as soon as the debentures were
paid off, the locked-up surplus would be available for
dividends. Therefore the paying-off of the debentures is
of special interest. In that matter this progress has
been made:—
Profit on
Redeemed Purchase Profit on
Debentures During of De- Property
Outstanding. Year. bentures. Sold.
Oct., 1903 .. £392,485
Dec., 1904 .. 304,514 £87,971 £2107 £12,175
Dec., 1905 .. 262,383 42,131 858 26,817
Dec., 1906 .. 189,579 72,804 648 31,274
Dec., 1907 .. 150,693 38,886 213 15,545
Dec., 1908 .. 89,241 61,452 110 11,519
Since the year closed another £32,000 has been paid off;
and at this rate the whole lot should disappear during
1910. The earmarked profits or surplus totalled £101,266
at.the end of 1908. When the debentures are all paid off,
this amount will be available either to add to reserves or
for distribution. Further, according to the auditor’s
certificate, “ in cases where part of an asset has been
sold for an amount greater than the book value of the
whole asset, only the surplus realised over the book value
has been carried to the Realisation Reserve account, the
unsold part being retained in the books at a nominal
amount.” There is no way of judging the size of this
hidden reserve; for, of course, when substantial assets
are kept in the books at only a nominal figure, it amounts
to a hidden reserve. However, this is no doubt included
in the directors’ estimate of the real value, mentioned
above.
After the debentures have been paid off, the
surplus will be available for dividends. But that may be
only nominally. Actually the co. isn’t keeping this ear-
marked surplus in cash ; the fund is represented by more or
less fixed investments—properties, purchasers’ balances,
etc. The actual cash and liquid investments totalled only
£47,276 at the end of the year; and no doubt most of
that went to payoff the £32,000 of debentures recently
wiped out. There is no certainty at all, therefore, of a
big lump of a div. being paid as soon as the debentures
have gone. Besides the liquid assets mentioned above
there are properties (including a sheep station and a Fiji
sugar plantation) standing at £357,514, but estimated to
be worth £512,700, and £93,679 of purchasers’ balances.
If that valuation of properties is realised, the matter will
stand like this :
Realisation Reserve .. .. .. £101,266
Estimated further surplus ' .. .. 155,186
Reserve (Ist table above) . . .. 3,811
Total £260,263
That is equal to 3s. lOd. per share in addition to the 4s.
capital value. But it must be remembered that the bulk
of that is based on a 1906 valuation, and 1906 was a fat
year of high values. As the co. pays off debentures it,
of course, gets rid of assets ; and it is impossible to tell
what return it will get from those it will be left with.
Judging by the nature of the biggest of the assets, it is
very liable to be an extremely erratic return. Thus
station properties, which last year gave a net profit of
£9443, gave only £3432 in 1906.
The Argus Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne); —
Written To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £l9B Nil £339 £1548
1900 .. 472 Nil 440 £32 1580
1901 .. 1275 Nil 1762 1093
1902 .. 1494 3 per cent. = £505 1113 969
1903 .. 1607 3 „ „ 505 963 139 1108
1904 .. 1466 3 „ ~ 505 973 1096
1905 .. 926 3 ~ „ 505 490 1027
1906 .. 1133 4 ~ ~673 199 261 1288
1907 .. 1447 5 „ ~841 269 337 1625
1908 ..1894 6 „ ~ 1010 475 409 2034
1909 .. 1918 6 „ „ 1056 209 653 2687
If the foregoing table is compared with those printed
after previous post mortem, examinations, some changes
will be noticed. In recent years, in addition to amounts
which dropped out of the contingency reserve, other
amounts were shown as charged direct to Profit and Loss
to cover the cost of repairs and additions to properties.
With some doubt (especially with regard to whatever
part of the total was spent on repairs) the sum of the two
amounts has hitherto been shown as written off. The
accounts now presented put the matter more clearly.
Only one amount is written off, but it is shown twice.
It is rather a roundabout way of doing things, but
evidently it originated with a desire to show in
Profit and Loss exactly what revenue w»as spent
on repairs and additions. Repairs are, of course, a proper
and necessary charge against revenue ; wherefore, the
amount spent on them can scarcely be regarded as
written off. The amount spent on additions is different.
It is, however, impossible to distinguish between the two.
All that can be said is that strictly the true profits are
something less than is showm above, inasmuch as part of
what is shown as written off is spent on paint and
patches. Still, this isn’t a large matter. The outstand-
ins- feature is the excellent increase in the profits during
the past five years. The general improvement in condi-
tions, coupled with the society’s wise policy of keeping:
down dividends and making good use of the surplus, is
responsible for this. The principal items in the accounts
for the past and some recent years were as follows .
1900. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Deposits .. ..£10,153 £22,382 £19,086 £19,852
Overdraft .. .. 3,054 ~
Raised on mortgage 4.467 8,204 9,063 0,063
Oash balance .. 6,069 2,257
Advances .. .. 35,305 42,665 45,303 48,074
Interest earnings.. 1,530 3,566 3,920 4,015
The capital is £17,765 and is being increased ; some new
shares were lately issued. When these are paid for the
total will be £20,000. The liabilities are not heavy ; even
on the present capital the society’s own funds are equal
to £1 for every £1 4s. of the public’s in the business. In-
terest earnings are lumped with fines and other things, and
that makes it impossible to say what the advances pro-
duce on the average. The lumped item which contains
the interest shows more than 8 per cent, on the total ad-
vances. From that it looks as though there are very
few unproductive assets on the books, which is another
way of saying (1) that assets have now been well written
down, and (2) that the reserves as well as the capital are
most likely intact.
* * * *
The Hebald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends.
Pref. Written
Profits. (6p.c.) Ord. Off. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar., 1904.. 3750 8 p.c. = 5000 164,131
Sept., 1904.. 13,873 3750 8 „ ~5000 720 159,728
Mar., 1905.. 14,887 3750 10 ~ ~6250 701 155,542
Sept., 1905..15,306 3750 10 „ ~6250 706 150,942
Mar., 1906..13,846 3750 10 „ ~6250 722 147,818
Sept., 1906.. 16,012 3750 10 ~ ~6250 724 142,530
Mar., 1907.. 15,600 3750 12 „ ~7500 962 139,142
Sept., 1907.. 15,666 3750 12 „ ~7500 979 135,705
Mar., 1908.. 16,579 3750 12 „ ~7500 989 131,365
Sept., 1908..17,436 3750 12 „ ~7500 4085 129,264
Mar., 1909.. 15,485 3750 12 „ ~7500 1287 126,316
In the foregoing goodwill is not reckoned as an asset.
The goodwill of a paper means merely the habit which
various people have got into of buying it; and that is
much too unreliable a thing to put in a balance-sheet.
The item stands at £198,000; but the co. is replacing it
with something more substantial, and is doing it at
reasonable speed. As shown above, £37,815 of the deficit,
represented by the intangible asset, has been got rid of in
the past five years. The substantial assets are as
follows :
Mar., 1908. Mar., 1909.
Freehold and fittings .. .. £38,822 £50,182
Machinery .. 28,157 27,828
Stock 5,503 12,415
Board of Works debentures .. 4,909 4,909
Deposits, book debts, etc. (net) .. 41,244 39,600
Total £118,635 £134,934
So it works out like this
Capital .. .. .. .. £250,000
Visible assets .. .. £134,934
Less dividend .. .. 11,250
123,684
Deficit as above.. .. .. £126,316
The capital is in an equal number of pref. and ordinary
shares; the prefs. stop at 6 per cent., which makes
things pleasant for ordinaries in good times. The co.’s
total liabilities are only £8407 ; and the book debts are a
very moderate £8137. Further, the latter item is not
swelling-, which indicates that the profits are not being
swollen by the inclusion of much bad debt.
* * * *
National Building and Investment Society
(Adelaide)
Loss Net To Re-
on Loss on Written duce
April, Business. Sales. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
1899 .. £459 £2l £11,160 £9,437
1900 .. 546 19 10,002
Forfeited capital .. .. £854 9,148
Profit.
1901 .. 324 162 162 8,986
Profit.
1902 .. 327 54 381 8,605
1903 .. 399 147 546 8,059
Forfeited capital .. .. 77 7,982
1904 .. 536 60 16 580 7,402
Forfeited capital .. .. 2734 4,668
Loss.
1905 .. 460 107 353 4,315
Forfeited capital .. 92 4,223
Profit.
1906 .. 100 99 199 4,024
1907 .. 344 20 364 3,660
Forfeited capital .. 1776 1,884
1908 .. .565 315 880 1,004
Reserves
1909 .. 505 672 1177 173
This society was for many years run on quasi-philan-
thropic principles; and, between that and land-boom
troubles, it got into shocking difficulties. In 1899 an
attempt was made to square up things by writing off
£11,160. Up to that time the society pretended to have
certain reserves ; after the cleaning up, it was, of course,
obvious that, not only were there no reserves, but a con-
siderable amount of the capital had been lost. Many
weary years have been occupied in wiping out this
deficit; and at last the deed has been nominally accom-
plished. But this has only been done by forfeiting capi-
tal. Thus in 1907 those shareholders who cared to
take 10s. in the £ were bought out; and
£3553 of capital was in that way got rid of at a
cost of £1776. The improvement in the look
of things has been simplified by the extraordi-
nary prosperity of S. Australia. Good seasons and
high prices have filled the farmers’ pockets and made
trade in Adelaide unusually brisk. Another thing has
happened which isn’t wholly satisfactory. On the
strength of good seasons and high prices, farming lands
have gone up to what, a few years ago, would have been
regarded as a fabulous price ; and scores of experienced
farmers have jumped at the offers to sellout. In some
cases, they have taken up cheaper land in Westralia ; in
others, they have settled in Adelaide, and the new men
have gone into possession with a thumping mortgage on
their backs. It may turn out all right; but a couple of
bad years will see a lot of distressed S. Australian farmers,
and equally distressed country storekeepers, and con-
siderably worried city wholesale people. Meantime,
however, Adelaide is smiling.
Hence this and other Adelaide concerns with
land and houses to get rid of are having a better time
than they have had for years past; and the “better
time” has been still further bettered by the expenditure
of a large amount of borrowed money on the new trams,
etc. But borrowed money can’t be spent twice ;so that
fillip which has been given to the city will soon die out.
This society has, however, made hay while the fillip
lasted, and has sold numerous properties during the year.
Therefore, according to the directors, “ for the first time
since 1898 the society shows a surplus of assets. This
result clearly shows that your assets have not been over-
estimated.” It shows nothing of the sort. As pointed
out above, the deficit has been turned into a surplus only
by getting some shareholders to take 10s. in the £ and
call it square. But even now, if the assets thus
written down were not over-valued, why is not
a dividend being paid? The assets stand in the
books at £21,343. The interest, rents, etc., after
paying expenses, were £505 for last year; so the return
was £2 7s. 6d. per cent. That isn’t a fair return on the
money, and certainly suggests over-valuation. If, how-
ever, the assets are not over-valued, the management
surely did a remarkable thing when it recommended that
shareholders who wanted to withdraw should be offered
10s. in the £. In time to come the assets may bring what
they now stand at in the books ; but if meantime share-
holders get no interest, then those ultimate values must
be liberally discounted in order to arrive at present
values.
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan and
Deposit Co. (Melbourne), from the time when, £16,022
having been embezzled, £14,728 of capital was written’off
which left the co. with £826 of reserves :
To Ee- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Apl., 1902 ..£lOl9 S percent. = £516 £503 £1329
Oct., 1902 .. 1156 8 ~ ~ 516 640 1969
Apl., 1903 ..688 8 „ „ 516 172 2141
Oct., 1903 .. 949 8 ~ ~516 433 2574
Apl., 1904 .. 820 8 „ ~ 516 304 2878
Oct., 1904 .. 740 8 „ ~ 516 224 3102
Apl., 1905 .. 856 8 „ ~ 516 340 3442
Oct., 1905 .. 863 8 ~ „ 516 347 3789
Apl., 1906 .. 986 8 ~ ~516 470 4259
Oct., 1906 .. 950 8 ~ ~ 516 434 4693
Apl., 1907 .. 1014 10 „ „ 645 369 5062
Oct., 1907 .. 655 10 „ „ 646 9 . 5071
Apl., 1908 .. 664 10 „ ~ 646 18 5089
Oct., 1908 .. 757 10 „ ~ 646 111 5200
Apl., 1909 .. 696 10 „ „ 646 50 5250
The accounts show no changes of any consequence. The
advances (£20,838) are a shade less than they were six
months ago, but then they were a shade more than usual.
The co. owes £5739, practically all of it on account of
fixed deposits. The paid capital is £12,911. There are
two denominations of shares : one lot (7s. paid) carries a
liability of 2s. 6d.; the others (3s. 6d. paid) have a liability
of 12s. 6d.
The Queensland Farmers’ Co-operative Co.
(Ipswich):—
Written Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends, etc. off. serves.
1905 .. £398 Nil £272 £2298
Loss.
1906 .. 443 „ 354 1501
Profit.
1907 .. 1283 „ 602 2182
1908 .. 3454 ~ 881 4785
Apparently, however, that is for the Butter branch of the
business only. The Bacon branch, which is run with a
separate capital and as a separate buiness, began the year
with a debit balance of £302 and ended it with a shortage
of £2015 ; so that here there was a loss of £1713. Besides
this, “ preliminary exes., £256," are still reckoned as an
asset; so that of the Bacon branch capital of
£4674 only £2403 is now represented by tangible assets.
It will be noticed that no dividend is paid in
either branch—a very proper course, since the Butter
branch had an overdraft of £6024 and the Bacon branch
one of £2250 at the end of the year. Nor is any bonus
paid. Still, both dividends and bonuses are secondary
matters in connection with a co-operative concern, which
does its chief duty if it secures for the producers fetter
prices than they could get if they had to individually
haggle with the Private Enterprise butter factory and
distributing agent. The co. is therefore doing well to let
the reserves grow a bit, more especially as, in order to
maintain good prices for local supplies, it goes in for
butter export—a trade in which there are violent fluctua-
tions, and the possibilities, therefore, of heavy losses.
* * » *
The South Greta Colliery, No Liability
(West Maitland, N.S.W.), which started business in May,
1906, with a deficit of £212, representing preliminary
exes.:—
Mar., Loss. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit.
1907 .. £1199 Nil £l4ll
1908 .. 269 Nil £3OO 1980
Profit on Land Sales, £5ll .. » 1469
Profit.
1909 .. 254 Nil 308 1523
The co. was formed in Sydney in 1906 to take over the
old South Greta colliery. Like others in the district,
this had been worked in a crude way, and then abandoned
in days when the gradual working-out of some of the
Newcastle mines was less apparent than it is now. The
co. was in 30,000 shares of 10s. each, of which 25,000 were
at first issued. The mine was paid for in this way :
9000 Vendors’fully paid shares .. .. £4500
Debentures, 5 per cent, non-mortgage .. 600
Total £5lOO
A contract was at once made with the railways to supply
30,000 tons at a very low price ; and, the coal having
been thus introduced, three other contracts for 30,000
tons each were made in subsequent years at advancing
rates. The low price at which the earlier contracts were
made no doubt accounts for some of the losses made in
the first two years. On the other hand, money spent on
development has not been charged against revenue. In
the co.’s second year it bought the old Maitland colliery
119-acre freehold, next door (the South Greta is lease-
hold). Electrical coal-cutting machines and other plant
have also been acquired ; so that on March 31 of this
year, though the whole 30,000 shares had by this time
been issued, the position was as follows :
Non-mortgage debentures £305
8 p.c. mortgage debentures .. .. .. 10,326
Owing on Maitland purchase (carrying 5 p.c.) 6,399
Other debts (overdraft, etc.) .. .. .. 5,160
Total liabilities .£22,190
The 8 per cent, mortgage debentures are payable in 1915,
or earlier at the co.’s option on giving six months’ notice.
The debt on the Maitland purchase is payable by instal-
ments ; the last of £3240 is due in September, 1912. As
further purchases of plant are contemplated, the co. has
authorised the issue of 30,000 more shares ; and a first lot
of 7500 have just been taken up at par. The weak point,
from the shareholders’ point of view, is the heavy
weight of dear money carried by the co. Of course
the 8 per cent, debentures may be paid off; but
supposing the coal trade got very slack, the burden
would then be heaviest, and that would be the very time
when the co. couldn’t conveniently pay off the debt. As
for the Maitland debt, the colliery is not working, and it
would cost a lot of money to open it up, though it may
be tapped from the South Greta ; but the surface is of
considerable value. The South Greta itself joins the very
successful East Greta, and has twq seams. Very little
has been done on the top seam, which consists of
good coal, broken unfortunately by a couple of clay
bands ; but the whole sft. of the bottom seam is good
clean working. The property is very handily situated,
and the purchase price seems strictly reasonable ; but the
co. began with very little capital, and that must push
dividends away into the future —unless the management
pays them before they should be paid. The trouble in such
a case is that often a coal co. can only get out of its en-
tanglements by issuing pref. shares carrying a high rate
of interest. If this co. can pull through without that,
and can pay off the temporary debt, the fact that its
share capital is small will, of course, make the dividends
all the fatter in the end. But the risk has to be kept in
mind.
* * * *
Lithgow, the one place in N.S.W. and Australia
where iron is being made, has been falling in for a lot of
discussion, a good deal of it hostile. The Adelaide Cham-
ber of Commerce was told in the first place that the Lith-
gow ore contains too much moisture, too much sulphur,
and too many other impurities, that the coal isn’t good,
and that the geographical position of Lithgow is bad,
anyhow. The one question really is whether it would be
better to smelt on the coast or at Lithgow. If the smelt-
ing were done on the coast the works would have the
command of ore from Blythe River (Tas.), the Iron-
knob (S.A.), and elsewhere. On the other hand,
Lithgow has unquestionable advantages. It is handy
to coal, ore, limestone, and other raw materials. Some
of these materials —the ore, for instance—are not of
the very best quality ; but the fact that they are so
handy to one another may counterbalance their defects.
Unfortunately full advantage is not taken of their
handiness, and the assembling of ore, coal, etc., is as vet
absurdly expensive owing to the absence of steam shovels,
big trucks, etc. No doubt it is a pity that a full inquiry
was not made before any works were established ; for it
seems that, though a good working iron may be produced
at Lithgow, the best qualities cannot be produced there
from local raw materials ; and by-and-bye other works
may have to follow on the coast. Meantime, however, it
is quite likely that, for a start, and for the production of
just good ordinary iron, Lithgow is the best place. It
isn’t ideal; the ideal place would be on the coast, along-
side coal, with fair iron ore in the neighborhood. For


Conveying Apparatus
for handling
COAL ORL_ WHEAT.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Robins Conveying Belt Co.
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE, ‘
Macdonald Street, KALGOOELIE,
[s
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 606 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * • *
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and econommal engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s "Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 316 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle.*
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although lie is liable for
them Under the Employers' Liability Act of 97. Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are not experts generally
Come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company SUch as the SotfTll BRlTtStt INSURANCE COMPANY
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney ; Geo.
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all Such claims,
just and unjust alike, so saving him time, worry and
expense * #
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining 1 world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.*
. * * *
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, patented and made
“ Balata ” Belting, universally famed by its excellence
for heavy mine work. Their quality is still unapproached.
For protection against inferior imitations note the
maker’s name stamped on every few feet. Sole importers,
James Hardie and Co., Sydney and Melbourne. * [1
*** ■ ■ *
The Post Magazine and Insurance Monitor,
London, of 31/10/’OB, in commenting upon The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society. Limited, writes
“ Wherever the Society has gone it has stood for sound
life assurance principles, and it can look back upon one-
third of a century of useful work.”*
* * * *
CLARKE & SONS, Stock and Share Brokers,
99a Queen Street, Melbourne.*
. * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tbnax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-S9 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Bunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
COMMONWEALTH and Eoreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
It * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silbkrisk.ro and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* « * *
McLaren Traction Engines have been so long
and favorably known in Australia as being among the
foremost of "their class as agricultural locomotives for
hauling, ploughing, driving machinery, etc., that they
are now finding an extensive field among the Shire
Councils. Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, who are Sole
Agents for J. and H. McLaren, Leeds, are making a
speciality of road-making plants, of which these engines
form a very important part, and many of the Shire
Councils have already got them working on their roads.
Their size, strength, and durability make them eminently
suitable for this class of work, and they never fail in
giving complete satisfaction.*
DIERCKS h CO. PROPTY. Ltd
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables,
Large Stocks always on Hand.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. U
the best qualities the picked ore could be assembled from
the Blythe River, Iron-knob, and elsewhere; while the
local ore would serve for general purposes. Still, this
ideal place doesn’t exist, so the best has to be done with
what does exist. The two Hoskins brothers, who
have taken over the huge job of setting the industry on
its feet, recently fled to Europe, possibly to look for more
capital, but certainly to make themselves more familiar
with the most modern practices in the business. The
only trouble about the Hoskinses is that, though in some
respects excellent employers, to them labor unions are
like red rags to angry bulls ; but of their energy and
engineering skill there can’t be a doubt, and from that
point of view the business couldn’t have fallen into better
hands.
The De Bavay Treatment Co. is gladdening
the hearts of shareholders with the 49 per cent, zinc con*
centrate that is being turned out by the Broken Hill
plant. Judged by the value of the Concentrate, it is the
top-notch so far as Zinc-extraction work on a commercial
basis is concerned, and leaves all other Zinc processes in
the rear. At the same time, it would be interesting to
know whether the De Bavay work is quite as good as it is
represented to be. In other words, granted that the De
Bavay plant is making a higher grade concentrate than
the others, is it also extracting more of the metal than
any other zinc process? If figures w'ere supplied they
would probably show a considerable loss of metal in
the slimes before the material to be treated is put through
the plant at all. The De Bavay plant won’t look at
slimes, and when the slimes made in preparing the tail-
ings for treatment have to be rejected, it is certain that
a percentage of original metal contents must be thrown
out too. Still, the plant has been doing greatly improved
work of late, and is said to be earning a fair profit.
+ * * *
In view* of the threatened litigation between
the Ore Concentration (Elmore) Co. and the Sulphide
Corporation, which latter is using the rival Minerals
Separation Co.’s process at the Central mine, Broken
Hill, it is worth noting that the Central did good zinc
extraction work on Broken Hill tailings before the Elmore
process had entered the field. In the early days of the
Zinc Corporations existence, after it had gone nap on
the Elmore vacuum machine, its published figures dis-
closed a loss; but improvements were effected in the
wOrkihg of the plant by the engineer in charge of it, and
now it would scarcely be recognised as the same process,
it is Claimed by Zinc Corporation people that they
ate in these days making £1 per ton on the tailings
treated, after pa.vihg working expenses ; and the latter
come opt at 9s. 2d. artd 9s. 3d. a ton. The Central mine’s
Minerals Separation plant is doing good work all round,
yet it is not turning in that much profit—not by a few
shilling^—although its working costs are Only about 7s,
per ton (including Construction), compared with the
Zinc Corporation’s 9s. 2d. The Zinc Corporation’s ac-
counts are being eagerly awaited by rival mill men, who
somehow can’t reconcile the Corporation’s figures with
their own experience.
* * * *
Customs Department figures give some idea of
what Australia loses by its neglect of the spelter industry*
This year’s output of zinc concentrates to the ehd of May
was 98,441 tons, valued in Australia at an average of
£2 Its, 2d. The zinc alone in these concentrates was
worth about £509,000, taking the metal at only £2O per
ton. Zinc smelting or distillation is an expensive busi-
ness ; probably the average costs would be nearly £6 per
ton, including depreciation, which is very heavy, owing
to the Vapid consumption of retorts. On this basis over
£400,000 was needlessly spent in foreign countries, and
in freight in foreign vessels. And that was for only five
months’ output; and the output is growing larger every
month.
• * * *
One of the first (Government Bills to be offered
to the N.S.W. Parliament when it meets will aim at
the illicit gold-buyer, with the object of putting down
gold-stealing. There isn’t much gold-stealing done in
N.S. W., because, for one reason, there isn’t much gold to
steal; but since Victoria, Tasmania and other States have
passed laws to regulate gold-buying, N.S.W. has become
the happy hunting-ground of the illicit purchaser. Some
of them—they don’t call themselves illicit gold-buyers, of
course—advertise throughout Victoria. This is another
case in which the present division of governing powers is
absurd ; instead of one State after the other having to
pass virtually the same law, it would be far more economi-
cal and effective for the Commonwealth Parliament to
pass one for the lot.
* * * *
During the last tin boom numerous stray infants
were left on Melbourne’s doorstep ; but one by one Mel-
bourne is finding out that tin-boom infants are unreliable
beyond the average. The last to go broke is the Elliott.
The principal claim, which had been worked by one
Elliott, was near Torrington, in the New England district
of N.S.W. Elliott sank a shaft to 27ft., and the lode
carried rich tin down that far. Then he evidently remem-
bered the good old tin-mining maxim, “Never punch a
good face.” The co. therefore arrived at this stage,
carried the rich stone down to 40ft., and then the thing
began to misbehave. Meantime other blocks had been
taken up; but they panned out no better. Wherefore
the eo. has now thrown the whole thing up as a bad job.
It put up a small battery early in the proceedings, and
this and the rest of the plant ought, at any rate, to leave
enough to fee the undertaker after all the other bills have
been paid.
Queen Bee, Cobar (N.S.W.), commenced to put
up the new water-jacket furnace on the 14th inst. ; and
expects to have it at work in about six weeks’ time. The
co. intends to put through the new furnace a large dump
of seconds, worth from 4to 8 per cent. But some of the
dump will be a hard nut to crack, even if it can be
cracked in this way at all. The small furnace is still
doing good work ; last fortnight’s output was 39 tons of
32 per cent, matte and 28 tons of 37 per cent, matte.
Underground, things are looking decidedly better for the
moment, owing to the good quality of the sulphides in
the No. 5 level. At present metal prices, however, the co.
has little hope, unless a comprehensive scheme of develop-
ment is carried through.
Last year, Great Boulder (W.A.) earned
£578,704 ; and, after deducting £246,549 for expenditure,
and adding £6435 brought forward, a balance of £381,855
remained. Dividends and taxes swallowed up £289,899 ;
and the transference of £45,000 to the depreciation fund
left £3391 to be carried forward. At the close of the year the
co. made out its financial position to be as follows: —
Assets (exclusive of mine, plant, etc.): Shares in other
companies, £10,591; gold specimens, £103; sundry
debtors, £2172 ; advance to Boulder No. 1, Ltd., £3500 ;
bullion on special deposit, £14,598 ; cash and bullion in
transit, £134,193 ; total, £165,148. Liabilities: Unclaimed
dividends, £11,789 ; sundry creditors, £21,704 ; total,
£23,502. Thus the surplus of liquid assets was £131,646.
The co. also had £31,565 worth of stores on hand. Compared
with 1907 the plant treated 13,310 tons more ore ; and the
treatment capacity of the plant has now been increased
to over 200,000 tons per annum. This enables the grade
to be brought down a little without impairing dividends.
So far, there is an aggregate of 18 miles of drives, cross-
cuts, etc., in the property ; and over £3,000,000 has been
cut up among shareholders. Prospects continue very
bright, but not quite so brilliant as at the end of 1907.
* •* * *
South Kalgurli (W.A.) had another measuring-
up of ore reserves on March 31, when the following esti-
mate was arrived at: —Actual: 135,682 tons ; average
value, 6'9Bdwt. Probable: 123,375 tons'; average value,
6’2ldwt. Compared with the previous estimate in Sep-
tember last, the one shows an additional tonnage of
13,812 actual and 27,485 probable, while the grade of the
former is one-tenth of a dwt. higher, and that of the
latter four-fifths of a dwt. higher. It is rumored that
8., M. and Co. are giving up the management of the pro-
perty in September next; but official confirmation is
wanting.
» * • *
The question of sinking a new main shaft was
touched upon by Chairman Wanklyn at the Sons of
Gwalia meeting but lie said the matter was not one for
to-day, to-morrow, or the day after, but for some years
hence. Meantime an ore pass is being made from the
tenth to the sixteenth level, so that ore from the south
shoot may be sent down to the latter point and trucked
direct to the main shaft. In summing up the past year s
developments, Wanklyn said cheerfully I “At almost every
point where we have called on the mine to show what
it could do, it has responded handsomely; and the
result is that the prospects for the coming vear could not
very Well be more encouraging or more satisfactory*
* * * *
Colonial Consolidated Finance Corporation,
Which has £53,131 sunk in land, bricks ahd mortar at
Perth and KalgOorlie, ahd about £BO,OOO invested in
other parts of the World, issued its yearly report in London
last month. Receipts—made up of rents, interest, divi-
dends and sundry profits—total £8536 ; and after deduct-
ing £4209 as cost of running the show and providing a
good living for the officials, a surplus of £4326 remains.
The oo.’s interests in the West have been re-valued ; so,
in accordance with the expressed wish of shareholders at
the previous meeting, the loss on capital account, which
amounts to 3s. per share, is to be written off, and future
profits made available for dividends.
* * * *
The Outtrim-Howitt Coal Co. (Vic.) is up
against a hard patch of rock. Leading drives in every
direction show a miserable 18in, or so of coal. This un-
satisfactory development is due to the big fault which
gave such trouble some time back. Nature
appears to be mocking at the idea of turning
the Cabbage Garden into a coalpit. Big faults and little
faults, up-throws and down-throws, splints and crushed
seams, make Gippsland coal-mining a delusion and, to
Investors, an expensive snafe. Now Minister Mcßride
proposes to go ahead with the State coalmine at the Pow-
lett, so the Gippslanders’ cUp of woe runs over. At the
Powlett the State has proved 60,000 acres of
good coal-bearing ground, and it puts up a notice warn-
ing off trespassers. In the old days a firebell would have
been rUng directly a good bore went down, so as to bring
the crowd round to peg out. The Outtrim-Howitt 00.
doesn’t like Mcßride’s stiff back, and pleads that, as
£700,000 has been spent in Wages, it should have a free
tun. Seeing that the State proved the ground, that it
owns the coal, and that it is the largest con-
sumer of coal in the country, there isn’t the
faintest reason why the State should nbt apply
ordinary business principles to the Pow'lett coal
field and work the seams to supply its own wants.
What’s more, there is a big majority in the State Parlia-
ment that is sick of the coal-cwm-shipping combine. If
members can hit it through a State coal mine they won’t
miss the chance. Thus Outtrim-Howitt is between the
two mill-stones, and is likely to be crushed very flat.
* * * *
So the London directors of the Loddon Deep
Leads (Vic.) have delegated one Oairncross to get to
work and tell them if the claim is a mine or
a myth. Oairncross is described as having been consult-
ing geologist to some Central African shows, and is said
to have been deep lead mining at Gulgong, Oorowa and
Rutherglen. This doesn’t say that he is the man for
Galway, and he will need his thinking-cap and his best
heap of experience to disentangle the Loddon Deep from
the ditch in which it now slops. If he be worth a
ha’penny in the matter of hard sense, he will get at the
bottom of all the flam that has been talked in London
about the mine. If blame has to be attached, his duty is
to fix it firmly, so that shareholders may feel that the
right party has been awarded the fool’s cap and the bells.
8., M. and Co., having gone through the mill with their
deep lead shows, could have told the cold truth about the
mine as well as any Oairncross ; only 8., M. and Co. aren’t
in fashion just now with J. Bull.
*■**■*
Prentice and Southern, Rutherglen (Vic.), is one
of the last of 8., M. and Co.’s alluvial shows. They hit
the sea or something like it at Moolort. They “ chucked ”
Catheart because they thought they had a Stromboli pit,
since when it has emerged into a mine. They let Avoca
alone, but clung to the two deepest mines on the
Southern and the Berry leads. Prentice and Southern
now recounts its six months’ effort, and there is no more
jam about it to attract the speculator than there is in the
record of the Berry United. In all 10,315 fathoms gave
5513f0z., or lldwt. per fathom. It takes a good
alluvial man, with a shallow mine, no troubles,
and no London frills to pay for to make
that average profitable. Great Southern, higher up
the Southern lead, is in the same plight; so
that there will be a chance when accounts come out of
telling whether the Victorian or Yankee manager can do
the better work in a tough corner. If Prentice and
Southern carries the same lavish office expense as Berry
United, the result isn’t in doubt ; for no alluvial mine
since the Madame Berry days could pay divs. on 150,000
shares and stand £6200 a year for management.
* * * *
New Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.), has escaped the
fault of most Ballarat-controlled mines. It does not sail
so close to the wind financially when on the div. list
that a bit of a change in luck puts it straightway
on to the call list. The stone pans out 6dwt.
Out of that divs. are occasionally paid, the
bank balance is kept fairly well in credit, and a
new shaft is being put down to 550 ft. Analysed, the
figures work out that 60 per cent, of the revenue has
gone for working costs, 30 per cent, for the new' shaft, and
10 per cent, in divs. Mining and milling took 10s. per
ton of quartz raised, and development 2s. per ton, so that
nothing went to w'aste. Nearly all the stone down to
400fc. at the No. 1 shaft is beaten out. That at 500 ft. is
being drawn on freely, so a hustle will have to be got on at
the new shaft if it is to pickup the shoot in time to prevent
the battery returns being affected. The directors ought
to stop divs. till the make of stone is proved from the new
shaft, otherwise they are sure to spoil their record for
decent management.
* * * *
The Lansell Estate trustees are sending from
Bendigo (Vic.) an embassy to London to sell, float, or
otherwise dispose of the Lansell mines and mining shares.
The members of the expedition are Michael Kelly, of the
Bendigo Stock Exchange ; Jack Stanfield, legal manager ;
and G. W. Lansell, battery manager at the Fortuna, who
is a nephew of the late Quartz King. Not one of the
triumvirate has been outside the Heads before. The
avowed object of sending three agents is to save broker’s
commission. To make sure of a cordial and affectionate
reception from the London brokers, and a good send-off
from their Melbourne agents and correspondents
on the Stock Exchange, this was precisely what
the Lansell trustees should not have said about
their representatives. Nothing, practically, is ever
floated in London without heavy brokerage and
commission being paid, and if the Lansell deputation
thinks it will be able to dodge being “ sharked,” its mis-
sion is foredoomed to failure. It chief equipment is pro-
claimed to consist of figures and plans, combined with a
practical knowledge of the mines. Mick and Jack and
George had much better lay in a stock of belltoppers,
flogger coats, pink ties, green socks, hard shirts and gold
watchehains. These, with fat cigars, bottles of fizz and a
motor-car to hold four (it must hold four), are the imple-
ments to use when floating mining cos. in London.
The recent record of the much-discussed O.K.
copper mine (North Queensland), according to the pub-
lished accounts : ~ .
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Sept., 1906 .. £19.393 £35,432 £3lOl £35,806
Mar., 1907 .7 14,334 17,716 32,424
Sept., 1907 .. 38,204 Nil 4828 65,800
Mar., 1908 13,266 17,716 61,350
.Sept., 190 S .. 10,159 Nil 7329 64,180
Loss.
Mar., 1909 .. 17,414 Nil 46,766
That things looka6 bad as that is the management’s own
fault. Six. months ago, when the law action with the
Hirsches was pending, the co. included as an asset the
£10,654 which it claimed from the metal firm. The co.
not only’didn’t win the’£lo,6s4, but had a heavy verdict
given it; and it'has since compromised by agree-
ing to pay £16,500. If the co. was justified-in claiming
the £10,654 as an asset six lhonths ago, it seems
ordinary, that it should, not now show the amount of
the verdict given against the co. as a contingent
. ..liability, if no.t ..as a straight-out liability. . As . the" co.
hag - since' agreed to pay £16,500 and its Costs, the pub-
lished figures have to be read with that addition. So far
as liquid assets and liabilities go, the position on Mar. 31
was as follows
Sept., Mar., Sept., Mar.,
1907. 1908. 1908. 1909.
Copper on hand ..£14,082 £14,717 £7,500 £15,350
Coke, stores, etc... 13,943 16,695 12,100 6,399
Ore on hand .. 362 158 300 687
Cash, etc 17,826 9,800 282
£46,213 £31,570 £29,700 £22,718
Less debts .. 4,572 2,953 3,644 6,550
Surplus .. £41,641 £28,617 £26,066 £16,168
The £16,500 which the co, has undertaken to pay to
satisfy the verdict will thus more than wipe out the
surplus. In other words, if it could get full value for its
firewood, coke and other stores on the mine (which it
certainly couldn’t), the co. would still be unable to pay all
its debts without realising on its plant, etc. —unless it
has made money since March 31, which is doubtful.
Hence the reconstruction referred to a week ago. The
Working account alleges a loss for the half-year of only
£2347 ; but mining cos’, accounts generally carry a lot
of top-hamper, and a loss can be turned into a profit by
the simple process of counting money spent on “ develop,
ment ”as an asset Worth 20s. in the £. This and similar
things have been done in this case ; also, law costs have
not, of course, been charged to working account; where-
fore it is safest to keep the eye riveted on the compari-
son of liquid assets and liabilities. And even then some
of the liquid assets are only very moderately liquid. The
most cheerful feature about the report is General-Manager
Shepherd’s statement that “though the tonnage mined
has been heavy for the rainy-season half of the year, the
development has practically kept pace with extrac-
tion ” ; also, “ the fact that the winze in the northern end
of the mine has been carried down for the last 40ft. in
8 per cent, grade, which is increasing with depth, is most
encouraging.”
* * * *
Mount Outhbert is the most important copper
show in the big mineral belt north-west of Cloncurry
(Queensland), which stretches nearly to the Gulf of Car-
pentaria. Engineer G, Phillips is reporting to the Queens-
land Government on a possible extension of the Cloncurry
railway, with a view to developing this district, Mount
Cuthbert’s main shaft is down 400 ft., and levels have been
opened at 150 ft., 250 ft. and 350 ft. The bottom level has
only recently been started, and when the lode is struck a
big flow of Water is expected, The ore body is mostly
black sulphide. Valued at 9 p,C, copper and ldwt,
gold. So far it is considerably miked with coun-
try rock (schist) and irregular patches of quartz,
The Upper levels have been opened for a length of,
approximately, 300 ft, ; but, in view of the irregular
Character of copper lodes, the reports about size and
value must be accepted with caution. Ore reserves are
based on a very moderate footage of driving and sinking
above the 250 ft, levelj yet the estimate is 130,000 tons.
Compared with that, the few hundred tons raised during
the progress of development seem trifling. A winze has
been sunk from the 160 ft. to the 250 ft. level, from which
the output was 200 tons, valued at 10 per cent. The
Mount Cuthbert Co. holds various copper properties,
aggregating 380 acres, and 160,000 shares have been
issued. #
New Anniversary (N.Q.) takes in a big area of
copper-bearing country north-west of the tin mines that
have kept Herberton in bread and butter for so many
years. Hitherto lfiost of the mining has been frag-
mentary and confined to a shallow depth under the
gossan outcrop. Steam winding machinery has been
installed, and development work at a greater depth has
been taken in hand. No. 2 shaft is down 67ft., and a
short length of driving exposes a face of dense pyritic ore
7ft. wide. On a rough estimate there are 3000 tons of ore
in sight, which is very little considering the time pros-
pecting has been going on. A recent 145 tons of ore
returned 11-2 per cent, copper. Mount Molloy people
practically control the New Anniversary, and are relying
on it to give the Molloy works employment.
* * * ■*
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, has
re-numbered its levels. No. 7(a continuation of Mills’
United’s No. 7) is now called No. 1, and the next level
(No. B)is called No. 2. Recent developments have been
favorable. Three winzes over No. 1 are on good stone,
and a larger output is promised. Judging by the number
of mineral veins intersected in sinking the shaft, and the
fact that granite alternates with diorite —which is often
favorable to gold—the N.B.P. is likely to have a number of
fair developments as these small mineralised formations
are explored. The crosscut from No. 3 level to cut a
section of the Brilliant has proved a small vein with a
strike and dip closely conforming with the Day Dawn.
The Day Dawn hanging wall reef, which was supposed to
be identical with one of the veins cut in sinking the
shaft, ought soon to be met in the crosscut driven north
from the shaft. Further, the Freehold is interested in
the bore-hole developments near the boundary ; so, be-
tween one thing and another, the Freehold market isn’t
likely to be inactive for a time to come. Things may be
good or they may be bad ; but at least something of one
kind or the other will be happening frequently.
* * » *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, has had a
crushing of 5080 tons for £9275. The estimated profit is
£2122, which is not so good as recent figures. The under-
lie below No. 18 is being continued ; the directors evi-
dently intend to try and maintain reserves of ore, which
at present stand at 70,000 tons, or about 14 months’
milling at the rate of 5,000 tons per month. No. 18 is
opening up fairly well, and seems likely to follow in the
footsteps of No. 17, which has proved a good tevel.
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, which has
been doing dead work for the last few weeks, will soon be
able to continue driving on the rich shoot, proved for
40ft., at the end of No. 2 west level. The crosscut has
broken through to the level and has secured more con-
venient access to the workings and better ventilation, so
expenses will not be so high in future. It is a good sign
that the stone is making strongly underfoot, for this
holds out a hope that still deeper levels will prove pay-
able Brilliant Blocks are driving a crosscut to try to
pick up the Brilliant Deeps’ reef ; also, they continue to
sink for the Day Dawn, and are getting nearer to where
they expect'to find something.
» * * *
It is said that the reconstructed directorate of
Mount Cannindah (Q.) is working quietly with a view to
the ultimate re-opening of the mine, and that Alex.
Corrie’s recent visit to the South had something to do
with negotiations for financing a scheme. The only way
out is a reconstruction ; and some of the larger share-
holders appear to be so anxious to get rid of their shares
at present that a further liability on these big parcels
will probably mean wholesale forfeitures. At best
Cannindah is a risky speculation. The first three or four
thousand pounds raised ought to be spent in develop-
ment to, say, 500 ft. ; and when that has been done the co.
will know whether the thingpis worth persevering with.
The ore at present available is not worth anything ; and
it may be taken for granted that most of the plant is
scrap iron. Whatever new process is decided on, it is
quite out of the question to work on the old lines.
Re the coal discovered by the McKay party in
Papua, the story told in the best-informed places in the
Possession is that a lease of no less than 64,000 acres has
been applied for; but probably the object declared isn’t
coal mining. The authorities in Papua reckoned that
what was wanted was beyond their'size, so the whole
matter has been sent on to Melbourne.
* * * »
An Australian : Can’t flood you with sympathy.
The person who puts a few pounds in the Savings Bank
for safe keeping and then draws the whole lot out in a
week or two is a nuisance. And Savings Banks ar e not
for that purpose L.M.R. :Goto a bank and get a
letter of credit Blast: Communicate with Molesworth,
82 Pitt-street Twenty-years Sub: Very well spoken
of ; but at present costly to work C.O. ; Statistician
Giffenin 1903 estimated'the wealth of the United King-
dom at £15,000.000,000; other parts of the Empire
£7,250,000,000. The Census Office in 1904 estimated the
wealth of the United States at £21,420,000,000; but the
latter figures apparently cover only the Union, the terri-
tories, Alaska and Hawaii. No information available as
to U.S. foreign investments H.E.R. :Tl janks , b>t
already dealt with.... H.H.: Can’t undertake the market-
tipping business.
* • * * .
W. J. Loring and Gilman Brown are now in
West Africa examining the Tarkwa Main Reef on behalf
of the Great Pingall Consolidated (W.A.). S. J- h P e &*
(Hooper and Speak) is also doing something in the same
locality. • *


CELEBRATED
Cherry Brandy
is supplied at
W A
*7
V
"°'
The Praise of its Pleased
Customers has made the
Success of
“Silvasheen” Satin
Tens of Thousands of Women have
proved its Greater Reliability and
Value by Actual Use. They Buy
it again and again, year after year,
and they tell their Friends.
FOR SALE AT ALL GOOD STORES.
A
MW
It’s all nonsense for anybody
to say that the public don’t
know when tea is good value or
when it isn’t —you’ve only got
to note how Robur has “ caught
on ” to be convinced on that
point—the customers say they
like it because it has a distinct
flavour—but the truth is they
prefer it because it is good value
—to my mind no tea in the
place shows better value for the
money. And that’s why there’s
more of it sold than all the
others put together.
I’ve had a lot of experience
and I’ve tried hundreds of times
to get my customers to take
other teas —and even now, when
a new tea comes along, l get
a little of it and push it out
with the hope that some of my
customers will like it and use it
instead of Robur because
theres’s so little profit on Robur
—but they don’t seem to stick
to new brands for long—
they always go back to Robur,
and 1 don’t blame ’em.
1 reckon the No. 2 Grade, is
a good family tea, but the No. 1
Grade is the tea l would buy
if l were you.
The Grocer.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
LACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 22, 190 ft.
My Dear Arini, —
The masculine, seventy-two-pleat evening-dress
shirt is in Sydney. I saw it in a swell outfitter’s
window in George-street, opposite which I stopped
to look at my hat. There were three rows of
pleats on either side of the front, and the tucks
were so small, edge-on and pointing outwards,
that they were barely discernible to the unmicro-
scoped eye. The sight inspired me to clutch
again the wreath and lyre :
I gazed in the outfitter’s window
(There was nothing on show I could wear)
I gazed in the outfitter’s window,
As I wanted to straighten my hair.
For, of course, as you know,
There was nothing on show
That a woman could possibly wear.
I peered in the outfitter’s window
(’Twas the mirror behind caught my eye 1)
I peered in the outfitter’s window
(Where there wasn’t a tiling I could buy),
And I muttered, “My dear 1
It is perfectly clear
That your hat is right over one eye ! ”
I glared at the outfitter’s window,
And I pinned up my hair in the street;
I glared in the outfitter’s window!
(That’s the line that I have to repeat!)
When I saw—well, I guess
That it wasn’t a dress—
But it looked just like one from the street!
I leant on the outfitter’s window
(I don’t love, or believe, at first sight!);
I leant on the outfitter’s window :
“Is it true !” I exclaimed. “Is it right! ”
Now imagine a man
With that on, if you can !
Oh, he would be a heavenly sight! ’’
I went from the outfitter's window
With a sort of hysterical sigh
(Yes, I said I recoiled from the window),
Saying, “ Now, Akenehi, don’t cry;
For you see by that chest
How the freshly-starched Blest
Whitely gleam when they’re let loose to fly!
The inhabitants of Bayview, a peaceful, not to
say dead, townlet on the southern shores of
Broken Bay, were stirred from their customary
lethargy on Sunday last by the arrival of a picnic
party from Federal Government House. A
launch, flying the flag which Mr. Bruce Smith
persists in defending against all comers, arrived
at the jetty near the local post office about 11 a. m.,
and more or less ruined the biack-flsh angling of
the neighborhood for the morning. Later the
party stood out for the Hawkesbury, and lunch.
Bayview and environs had not seen so much
glory since tiiey could remember.
A belated story of a reception given to certain
vice-regal personages who had just returned to
the Commonwealth after a trip to Britain, where
they had picked up a new aide: It seems that
the local mayor had ordered a large bundle of
roses for presentation to Mrs. Excellency on this
auspicious occasion ; but, instead of presenting
them himself, he got the boy from the flower shop
to do the deed, whilst he (the mayor) followed
behind, clothed in the majesty of a tall silk hat.
He didn’t even raise his headgear as he passed the
vice-regal party. The old aide, noting the awful
discourtesy of the mayor, nudged his new-chum
brother and said, “Go on, old chap, knock his
d—d hat off ! ” Whereat the new aide, nervously
fixing his glass in his eye, turned to his instructor
and asked, “By Jove ! I say, you know—is that
going to be one of my duties ? ” Fortunately for
poor Augustus, the mayor and his belltopper
were already out of reach. It would have gone
hard with anyone who had dared to smite his
Worship on his gleaming tile, for he was a large
mayor.
At this, the coldest time of the year, Kosci-
usko, the coldest part of the district which was
described for anti-Dalgety purposes as too cold for
legislative habitation, is crowded with delicate
young things and their parents, all of whom are
doing notably well. It has become the fashion
among our noblest citizens to organise parties for
Kosciusko. Well-known folk are streaming there
in batches of six and eight and twelve, and
when they arrive they skate and ski and toboggan
like anything, and generally have an excellent
time, and get “titter” than ever they were
after any trip to Hobart or M.L. The more I see
of the Monaro district the more am I staggered at
the audacity of the person who first started the
yarn that it is a place where seasoned war-horses
of the W. Lyne type must expire owing to the
rigorous weather. And when lam done being
staggered at that person unknown, I stagger all
over again at the horrible unscrupulousness of the
daily newspapers which perpetuated the untruth.
Monaro in summer is admitted by its bitterest
detractors to be an ideal spot climatically speaking.
And now, in the winter, the deadliest shaft that the
travelled visitor levels at it is that it resembles, as to
its air and temperature, St. Moritz and Pontresina
in the Swiss Engadine. But St. Moritz and Pon-
tresina are places which own half a dozen palatial
hotels apiece, mainly for the winter accommoda-
tion of consumptives. And already, I hear, the
Sydney doctors have taken to packing off any of
their patients whom they suspect of a tendency to
“lunginess” to the clear, thin air of the Monaro
highlands. One is thus faced with the tough
proposition that the same Monaro climate which,
if the Sydney dailies do not err, must kill off
politicians of the physical calibre of William Lyne
like weakling flies, achieves nothing but good for
genuinely delicate people. “ Which,” as the late
Euclid (I believe he is dead) used to say, “is
absurd.”
Australia minor is on the ice these afternoons.
Midwinter holidays have thrown him and her
upon the cold and expensive world of the
Glaciarium. They are all there—Riverview
College boys, Sydney Grammar School youngsters,
and the Silken Hairs from the various girls’
schools and convents. One beautiful infant of
six or seven looks like a doll, and she is dressed
like that especial doll which takes first prize at
big bazaars—only with this difference, that no doll
shows so much healthy-looking leg. Her stockings
really ought to be carried a half-yard higher, or her
frillies should descend a foot or so. But she is the
jolliest little skateress of the rosebud garden.
Mr. Tommy Burns cuts the frozen substance
like an expert. He does it holding his hands
behind him after the manner of Napoleon when
he left Russia on urgent business; and Mrs.
Tommy looks on admiringly. They have taken a
house in the Potts Point quarter, and promise to
be good Pointers.
Last week there was a very hot quarter of an
hour on the frozen floor at the evening session.
Through some misunderstanding, a young and
little man was removed from the ice by four strong
arms, rendered muscular by ceaselessly propping
up falling females in slippery places. But before
the authorities got him he gave them a run for their
money. He was a capital skater. When a long arm
shot out to secure him, he just did the lightning-
slipping-on-an-orange-peel act, and the arm
smote the air and, like the fishermen in the Bible,
caught nothing. Sometimes the owner of the
arm smote the premises horizontally. When
the grand pounce was accomplished, the youth
fought so well that he had to be dragged away and
accused with his skates on. And when he was
accused the Law said it was piffle and preposterous
rot, and refused to have anything further to do
with the business. It is hotly rumored that things
are not going to stop here, and there is warm talk
of huge damages for false imprisonment and brief-
ings of G. H. Reid and other horrors.
Miss Mimi Fiorelli was married to her bank
man last week, and her name is now Mrs. Sydney
Hooper. She entered into the pleasant and affable
state of bondage wearing a white cloth walking
gown and a befeathered hat. Orange blossoms
are not mentioned in the reports of the ceremony.
Good music put a cometary tail to the function,
but the melody was not wasted on the horde that
rushes the church when it sees signs of
a couple about to be fettered. At the Aus-
tralia Hotel, after the breakfast, Mrs. Slap-
offski sang “A Song of Thanksgiving.” It’s
a great mistake for any bride to allow that
song to be warbled at her wedding. Her best
and most intimate enemies are sure to say “Yes—
thanksgiving for catching a man.” Better stick
to “O Perfect Love,” or the good old “Voice
that Breathed.” By the way, is the Mad Scene
from “Lucia” or “Hamlet” ever sung at wed-
dings ? Mrs. (Margaret Thomas) Gordon also
lifted her voice, and sang in French of “blue
eyes” to the bride whose eyesfare chocolate brown.
Mr. Laurence G. Smith, disguised in smart society
clothes, interpreted a Great Composition on the
piano.
A number of the wedding guests (they didn’t
beat their breasts because they heard the loud
bassoon, like the wedding guest bailed up by the
Ancient Mariner) paced round somewhat later to
Paling’s concert room for Mrs. R. Quesnel’s
inusicale. “ Musicale ” is a distinctly good word.
There is no fear of its being mistaken for a rabbit
conference. Clever pupils of Mrs. Quesnel—
Miss Lily Seaton, Miss E. Bruce, and Miss R.
Bucknall—contributed most of the programme.
Pretty little Esther Kahn did some accom-
panying of her own composition, “In the
Wood” and “Captain Cupid,” and Miss
Yvonne Leverrier smote the piano in her
usual masterly Leschetizkyian style. Mrs.
Gordon, who had left the confetti-throwing,
again sang from under a big hat of dead black,
and above what looked to be a frock of white lace.
Quite a number of beknighted matrons were pre-
sent. The beknighted matron is fond of Handel,
who was on the programme and was served up
prettily by Miss Bucknall. For the rest, the
carefully-trimmed and coiffed and frocked audi-
ence was so taken by the ears by the Chopin and
Gluck items that it even stopped gazing at its
hostess’s hat, though that topping-off must
have come that same afternoon from Paris by
wireless telegraphy. It was a short length
of glossy black cylinder or stove-pipe, with two
long, black antennae nodding in front; and the
coyest of bright pink rose buds wreathed it and
formed a radiance. For the rest, the most beauti-
ful thing present was Count Tenderini. His
lavender tie, mole suede gloves, and the rest of
his raiment would qualify him as the idol of that
brilliant publication, the Tailor and Cotter.
That sturdy annual, the Royal Art Society’s
ball, bloomed again one night last week. It was
carefully tended by a trio of Lister sisters, Mrs.
H. J. Preston, and Messrs. Oxnard Smith and
Hadfeld. Several debutantes budded out, and
all the plain and fancy dressers who whirled away
the time there vowed that the last train at night
should be abolished as a spoiler of sport, and re-
placed by the first train next morning.
St. Ignatius’ old boys’ annual ball rolled last
week at Paddington Town Hall. Dr. Percy
Clifford, an ex-student of Riverview', bent
the spine of welcome to his guests, and hon.
sec. P. W. Fallon aided him—bending his
own spine, of course. It was a bright and
crowded ball with an unusual number of good-
looking young things in fluffy raiment. In
the debutante team were Misses Playoust, Coen,
Curtin and Macgahey. Last is one of the Foy
family. A recent heavy invasion of seventeen-
year-old girls—Foys and Mackins and Macgaheys
(all cousins) —has occurred from the French or
German capitals where the youngsters have been
at school for many years. They retain enough
Australian to say “yes” or “no” when a man
asks them to dance.
The news that the once well-known Australian
verse-writer, Jennings Carmichael, died in great
poverty in London, and that her three younger
children are in a workhouse, has given a good
many Australians—Victorians especially—a heart-
ache. Her death was mentioned a year or two
ago, but the destitution attending it is a ghastly
extra. She had five children. I forget her mar-
ried name. But what has become of the bestower
of that name? Jennings Carmichael used to be a
nurse in the Children’s Hospital in Melbourne.
She was a pretty, dark woman, with an uncom-
mon gift for poetising about babies and toddlers.
Except in one instance, when she wrote “Tom-
boy Madge,” she seemed incapable of sustained
effort in her versifying. But every Victorian
mother who read the Australasian, where her
tender little poems solely appeared, loved her work,
and invariably “cutherout.” Her prose was of no
account. Curiously enough, she wrote no more of
babies and tomboys after she married and had
babies of her own. The glamor that surrounded
infancy seemed to be dispelled then —probably
through the struggle to feed and clothe her own
infants. Someone has suggested an Australian
subscription in aid of the three destitute children.
Don’t forget that the Hospice Ball is a fixture
for July 7. Uncommon attractions are promised
for the gallery previous to the ball being set roll-
ing by the Chelmsfords. Amongst the noted
pictures that will be copied bv living models is
Longstaff’s “Breaking the News.” The hon.
secs, are Mesdames J. Kearney and J. E. Hayes.
The big liner Macedonia takes away Miss Ola
Humphrey from Adelaide within the next few
weeks. The reorganised company of which she
has been the star will have as new leading woman,
Miss Ethel Warwick (Mrs. Lewis Waller). She
will appear in “ The Flag Lieutenant,” at Her
Majesty’s in this city, late in July. Her husband,
Lewis Waller the younger, also gets a show in the
piece. In the odd moments they can spare from
caulking and glueing up their old craft and tying
the ruins of it together, some of the Powerful
officers will give the Firm advisory assistance at
staging the play.
Melba is now showing Mr. and Mrs. Wayou*
and the girls how the lark would warble if it had
only had the advantages of a Marchesi training.
By way of preparing the Wayout family for what
is coming, the country has been strewn with
printed remarks from which it won’t be quite sure
whether Melba is a circus or the artist it has heard
about. “There are in the spangled sky two
different kinds of lustre,” shrieks the literature
that reads like a circus, “It is easy to tell the
difference between the flashing light of the star
and the lambent lustre of. the planet... Com-
petitors from every country have entered the lists
against her. She has answered each challenge,
and in no instance has she failed to maintain
the proud pre-eminence of her position.
Many pretentious singers have glittered for
a season, and then burst into nothingness.
Mrs. Melba has survived on a crescendo of sus-
tained success.” It is all magnificent-including
the pretentious singer who glitters for a season
and then bursts into nothingness—but really is it
necessary to introduce Melba to her Australian
country cousins as though she were the charming
and astounding Senorita Margherita, the only
lady in the world who can turn a double somer 7
sault on the bare back of the flying steed and boil
an egg at the same moment? Or do those who
manage the business reckon that you have to
screech in the country to make yourself heard
above the bellowing of the cows ?.
At “ Sweet Kitty Bellairs,” on Saturday night,
the disposal of the Federal Government House
people about the house suggested that an informal
dinner-party had preceded the show. The
Governor-General and his graceful spouse shared
one box with Lord “Dick” Nevill and Captain
Gilliat. Opposite were the McCormacks, Mrs.
Arthur Macarthur and Mr. Callan. And in the
stalls the Bertie Kellys and the Hore-Ruthven
pair foregathered.
It was a great house, and everyone seemed
highly pleased with it, and themselves and the
play and its heroine and heavenly luminary. But
why, if I may propound the query without
striking any jarring note, d.oes Miss Stewart, as
Sweet Kitty, exploit the Hibernian accent of a
J. L. Sheridan throughout ? There are two ways of
speaking the English language in the Irish tongue.
One is that which yoUr carefully-nurtured young
maiden—the sort who, like Kitty, has an
Irmiskilling colonel for a father—employs. It
is soft, melodious and wholly charming. The
other is humorous 1 and racy; the user of
it makes her points in a loud, decisive
tone of voice, with an occasional whoop
of joy‘ thrown in. Miss Stewart favors
the latter method. Certainly it has an attraction
of its own, and it makes for broad fun ; but in real
18th century life it was surely the colleen of a
social clan alien from that of Bath pump-rooms
and dragoon regiments who thus comported
herself.
The biggest theatrical event of the winter, the
Chapman-Alexander Mission, is tapering to a
close, although the audiences are enlarging. After
divers attendances at huge meetings in the Town
Hall, with both missioners on the job of Saving
Souls in Bundles, I come to the conclusion that ;
the success of the campaign is moscly due to press
frothings—allee same as the press-worked Dread-
nought excitement and the wild demand for Free-
trade and a Canberra capitah Chapman and
Alexander are well contrasted. The former is a
dismal, preachy person ; the latter brims with
enthusiastic irreverence, laughs, winks-with his
mouth at his audience, and is heavily frolicsome
and domineering. Of the “ gales of emotion,”
the tears and extempore prayers reported in the
press I saw nothing. But I saw the biggest
lot of bashed millinery ever seen off a muni-
cipal dust-heap. And I never before saw so
many battered-looking old—very old—women.
Seemed as if all the benevolent asylums were
given a day off to be saved, with some hundreds of
Dyson’s fact’ry ’ands and the Water Police Court
thrown in. Babies in arms are usual, and the
unusual point about them is their quietness.
None cry, although they look desperately weary
and bored; one wonders do the mothers drug them.
It is so unnatural for a wakeful child of a year or
so to toss about in silence whilst a dismal gentle-
man is telling its mother that “the thought of a
man resisting Jesus makes him tremble,” or while
his partner is teaching 3000 persons to sing a new
hymn, stamping one foot like a cab-horse on the
rank the while. For the business side of the
mission—and no other side is clear to the dis-
passionate heretic—there can be nothing but
admiration. Chapman and Alexander remind one
of two master grocers who have out-distanced all
rival tradesmen and secured the custom and
patronage of the Trinity.
Mr. Bland Holt sent for the lady who figured
on the programme as “Ara” in Mr. Stanley
Maekay’s recent “Muffs” production of “Comedy
and Tragedy,” and gave her a niche in his corn-
pan y. The fair and clever young incognita turns
out to be the only daughter of Mr. J. D. Fitz-
Gerald, barrister, editor of Fairplay, and all-
round litterateur.
A portrait of my predecessor, Louise Mack
(Mrs. Creed), who was once your “Gouli-Gouli,”
appears in the English Bookman. She has good
and sufficient grounds for a libel action, for pretty
Louise is made to look a white lubra—if such a
thing exists. An intimation of her forthcoming
book, “The Rose of a Summer,” is tacked on to
the portrait. The same paper contains a portrait,
a regular peach, of Marie Corelli, with a capitally-
written appreciation by St. John Adcock. When
her first book, “A Romance of Two Worlds,”
appeared only two papers noticed it, and both
reviews were unfavorable, yet it jumped
straight into the front rank as a “ best
seller.” That’s one in the eye for the critics and
newspapers. To-day, Corelli’s books are the biggest
sellers in the English world of fiction, and they
also go off plentifully in many other languages.
Reviewers have to pay for their copies. Empresses
and queens write to her asking for her photo-
graph. Gladstone called on her, and King Edward
reads her ! Yet I have heard one of our own
quite minor story writers fervently thank God
that she did “not write like Marie Corelli.” And
a man to whom I tried lately to talk about her
at lunch shuddered when her name was men-
tioned ; also he sent away his plate of Irish stew
untasted, and had whisky and soda and a dry
biscuit. Yet under ordinary conditions that man
is a heavy feeder.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY BROS. LIMITED,
13 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Also at Brisbane (Si London*
>Uv*-
a
m
m
Jk\
fm
w%, '
'Gfcpr
f3c=3Cr>
SS 3
[
yp
C3n
gtai
i
[ M
5
/'
|acra
QO
C J
§a
'nsci:
r~ir
p#4fj
i
s»^j
tat
31
n
A
W
wM
&
?
p 4
HSBS
s!~'aß
-r-lroim^;
Orn
cm err
on
MP
&a
sS=i
twacam-z^
I
7 P==s-P=
::v-
-gp
ec
).■> >/- »* *v
Cc > 1 »
£)■ ,
m
nil
>cr
£5
mk
WM
Ipfip
//£
rr
—stria ca
.-HCCZIO'
Use#
>l3O
MS3
crarsaCS
rnic
nrri
V-£E=iCT>
IS i.
r—3i
a
pr^nr —OL‘l
n^rnoaq
*: /
r=3i
iQc-^:
■n^UTC'
oor
icrjrm
CT
/
r~r<
jerp
C3cr
i
CTt
ull
3K
ejQ
cm
lr=>
□ CHI
&
So
□
EJCD
ggSESSSEBESSS
a^ssisuniii
yr=s
B«p=ASSo
BBQD
m
□ODQQDCia
ocis> a
I
aaoaapn
ECKse»eaa
Ob
§awr\
OTZ> DaOEJ
rataaa qo
r 4P.
8008
13 a
o«w<imfirinp«png
SBSSBB
fenw.
s«
£SS
immm
II lEt iL wfwmontmff
Hi!
u**
%
n
cr
r H
.-
&
j
1#
r
1
J
k»
fes
If
j
u
re
ililU
a
aw
L
v\
©
■«;
nuniwur.
i W -SDTIZJ
r
\ /
pNey C.^wir
pi
7/
FTER conducting' business upstairs for nearly GO years, Hardy Bros. Limited are opening
downstairs showrooms. The new and complete premises now open for business.


0.0
It
“When You
Buy Corsets!”
Don't allow exaggerated
statements to influence your
judgment. When you pur-
chase dress material you judge
of its quality and value by the
touch. Have you ever thought
of testing the quality of a
Corset in the same way ?
Just you try, and you will
find how infinitely superior
Royal “P.D.” Corsets
are to all other makes.
Royal “P.D.” Corsets have
possessed —for years past —
features (carefully thought
out on scientific and hygienic
lines) that most other Corsets
claim as “New” and “Ex-
clusive ” to their own. There
is a Royal “P.D.” Corset for
every type of figure. Buy the
right one, and you will not
only find them rustless —per-
fectly boned —well ventilated
—but distinctly superior in
quality style strength
pliability and comfort.
“ Ask Your Draper ! ”
M/
%
HD
m
1?
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as going hand in hand as the first considerations in the
manufacture of the most desirable Motor Tyres—and
in no tyres will this trinity of features be found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,” and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 21, 1909.
My Dear Yarrie,—
At a room in Collins-street, opposite the Stock
Exchange (or Den of Thieves, as somebody calls
it), there will be an auction sale of Will Dyson
drawings on Thursday, next week. More than
100 caricature portraits by the industrious artist
were bought “off the wall” at his recent exhibi-
tion ; but this supply seems only to have increased
the demand. The sketches that he is going to
auction are mostly what he had set aside for sale
in Sydney. Having abandoned the idea of a
show in the Harbor City, he is going to get them
hammered off in Melbourne. Meanwhile he is
busy executing commissions. Orders are rolling
in, and the young man’s departure will have to be
postponed another three or four weeks.
George Buchanan, a fine, good fellow and
mining man (not Mr. “ Alawa” George Buchanan),
has been making himself the butt of a heartless
guffaw all round the Western District. George
and a friend were motoring. The friend left
Buchanan in charge of the motor while he went
off for a minute to see a dog about a man.
Buchanan, sitting idly at the steering wheel, was
accosted by a charming girl. In confusion and
distress the lovely girl explained that she had
missed the ’bus. The cumbersome vehicle had
gone off without her. In fact, the stage coach
had left her in the lurch. The shandrydan in
question was the carriage of certain friends who
were all going to some golf links. “They really
can’t have got far on the road—would
ou very kindly run me after them ? ”
What could the gallant George do? It
would only take a few minutes with his
friend’s 2000 or so horse-power car, and the
friend was still away seeing a dog. Off went
George Buchanan, whizzing round one bend after
another in the road. No carriage hove in sight.
At last about 1500 miles had been covered.
Queensland, or the Northern Territory, or some-
thing was visible in the distance. Kalgoorlie lay
on the left, and Hongkong on the right.
“ Madam ! I can do no more,” panted the
knight. “ This steel and copper steed belongs to
my friend.” Back they whizzed over the numerous
miles. The friend was standing fuming outside
the hotel, having finished his conversation with the
dog. The lady stepped gracefully out. A grinning
man alongside explained that she was the
prettiest and most popular inmate of Ararat
Asylum. And George, who ran her nearly to
Port Darwin, thinking she was a distressed golf
maiden, is the subject of wholly undeserved
hilarity.
The “Alawa” George Buchanan is a gentleman
of ladylike attractions in a drawing-room. He is
chiefly and cheerfully known as the cork-arm man.
A chef d’oeuvre of his entertainment is his imita-
tion of a cork-armed man speaking a piece. People
speak of the one-time Miss Robertson as an am-
bitious woman. She wanted to win a race. She
won it. She wanted the swiftest motor in Aus-
tralia—she has it. She wanted a husband who
could do the cork-arm recital—she got him.
“The Government of Victoria, having placed
the sum of £2OOO at the disposal of the University
for Research Scholarships and bursaries, some
awards are published, approved of by the
Governor-in-Council.” The list that follows
makes a feminine-woman gasp and a he-man
tremble. A girl with the fluffy name of
Gwynnette (Buchanan) earns £lOO for her “con-
tribution to the study of earth worms.” Fancy
Gwynnette grubbing round for the early worm
that catches the premature fish ! Then Leila
Green (what is in a name?) burdens her springy
cognomen with a purple B.Se., and bangs in on
the “decomposition of persulphates,” and with
such good aim that she bags what the bookmakers
call a “cool ’underd.” Margaret Scott, B.Sc.—
well, one expects something of Margaret ; rare,
pale Margaret, and all that sort of thing, don’t you
know ! Margarets always sound like the Lady of
the Sea, or some cold, aloof, far-seeing feminine.
But this particular Margaret has analysed the
chemistry of selenium and sulphur to the tune of
£lOO. But when Miss Jean White, who is a
Master Sc., rakes in her prize for Victorian Alg;e
—alack and alas and O-hoon for the frolicsome
Algies who disport their sunrise socks and land-
scape ties for maiden admiration ! —well, Jean
gives all her time to the classification, mor-
phology, and physiology of Algae. Hilda Kin-
caid deals with “The Galorinstry of Australian
Foodstuffs” (does the girl ever manage to eat?)
“and the leakage of phosphorus from Victorian
soils through meat export.” Bertha Rees, a girl
with a complexion like a peach (daughter of the
late Attorney Rees, Examiner of Titles) got into
more natural feminine fields with “Flora of Vic-
toria,” and “The Longevity of Seeds.” Of course
there are plenty of masculine names in the list,
but the world doesn’t gape if its lord and master
pores over his books and wears leather pads
where the holes are rubbed through his elbows.
The Best Knight’s missus lately managed to
gather in her Knight to host two cute little
dinners at Oratava, one of the garden houses with
well-timbered paddocks that spread over brainless
East St. Kilda. It is a gorgeous, countrified part
of the near suburbs, and is habitable only by
the motored. There are vast, grey-stone man-
sions thereabouts—mansions that were built in
boom time, and that even now are mouldering
in the dusty hands of the banks. They are too
big for servant-haunted families and too far from
thruppeny tram rides for people without three
motors and a “ broom.” A short chain of electric
tram would cause these mammoth creatures to
wake up from their mumbling, crumbling grizzled
sleep and discover that Melbourne is gay again—
not gaunt and pinch-cheeked over the butterless
crust left by the bursting of the boom. Some of
the wealthy ones fill the houses and let gardeners
loose in the park-like gardens. There is one
thing to be thankful for—no one vandalises the
beautiful old trees for timber.
All this is a great wandering from the Best
dinner parties. An epicure could not leave a Best
dinner for long. One meal, all scarlet and white
and gold, bedecked like a Jan van Beer sketch,
was chiefly in honor of Gibbs. Gibbs is spoken of
in a loud stage whisper as New Commissioner of
Railways. Also it was in honor of Mrs. Gibbs.
Miss Irene Fletcher was Of the party—a most
clever cajoler of the piano. The Bests are a
musical duet. They both warble. Senator Best
indulges in baritone extracts from grand opera
when he is not smiling over other people’s blun-
ders in the House. That smile covers a multitude
of cogitation.
Talking of big houses and the elusive servant
Biddy, things are so bad that they could hardly
well be worse. As a case in point, Mrs. Tom
Cumming, who could keep a slick and evenly-
oiled household if such a thing were possible in
this agitated world, has decided to abdicate. The
“gurl” can rule without her. Mrs. Cumming has
just been a-marrying her granddaughter, and is in
the trousseau-hunting stage for the last daughter
of the house. As soon as daughter Muriel is
safely “got off,” Mrs. Cumming is going abroad.
When she returns, it will be a four-roomed humpy
for her—no more big house, and no more of the
domestic “staff” that is worse than a broken
reed. Someone remarked feelingly, “What an
upheaval the ‘selling off’ will be—one collects so
much rubbish in a long housing ! ” “ Rubbish ! ”
almost snorted the lady. “There is no rubbish
in my house. I have everything regularly cleared.
No hanging on to family relics for me —wretched
things held for association’s sake. Sentiment’s
all very well in its way, but it doesn’t pay. People
will get from my house what they don't often get
nowadays—good, solid, well-made furniture that
would stand against an earthquake, and has the
old-fashioned polish of elbow grease.”
The Power-Clarkes are tired of honeymooning.
The new little missus appeared in Melbourne
town, recently, in blue and squirrel—nothing
could be more demure —with her honeymoon
husband attired in the last resort in over-
coats, and one of the new colored hats that suggest
a corner in felt. The last struggle in hats consists
of four square inches of felt blocked into the
semblance of head-gear. If this sort of thing goes
on much longer men will have to resort to “ extra
curls” to fill up, or else take to a chignon or a
Chinaman’s queue.
By the way, the Clarkes honeymooned at
Cooroorooke, near Colac, which belongs now to
the Everard Brownes. The present ownership of
this place is part of a sad tale of wasters. Coo-
roorooke belonged to the Robertsons, and
was their finest estate. Papa Robertson was
the pioneer Big-Acre Man of that district.
The earliest Robertson homestead was The Hill,
an ideal, old, wide-verandahed, creeper-shaded
station homestead. There were four sons. When
father died, the vast acres were divided among
these boys. They built, each of them, a magnifi-
cent homestead, and in turn spread out their
hands and pegged wider claims until practically
all Colac district belonged to Robertson. At the
present time—only the third generation—there is
scarcely an acre in Robertson b a nds. The four
sons, in sheer arrogance of possession, scattered
their money to the ducks and the drakes and the
dogs and the other beasts that ill-spent money
goes to. Those four sons are dead. “Jimmy,”
the youngest, was the last of them to fade out.
The vvidow of the eldest brother lives (by
courtesy) at The Hill, the original house; but
the acres are not hers. It was a strange, quick
downfall of a wealthy, spreading family. Fortu-
nately for the community, much of the four
estates has been cut up into farms —fine, rich land
that smaller and better and less splashy men have
put to good use, and on which they have fed
withal the gentle moo-cow with the crumpled
horn.
The worshipful Jacobis are having a return ball
thrown at them. It’s no use a mayor thinking he
can pitch a ball without having it thrown back at
his wicket. The other mayors who have been
disturbing the peace of their subbubs in like
manner, lately, have just held themselves open to
similar treatment.
Walter Withers, that gladsome artist who puts
smiles into his landscapes, gives a view of his
paintings from 23rd to 30th J une inclusive. The
studio in Oxford Chambers, Bourke-street, is the
scene of the event.
The dead Janet Lady’s daughters—lvy and
Yera—depart for Japan with the Reggie Clarkes.
When they have finished with the Monkey people,
the trip extends to the U.S. and then across the
Atlantic.
Some of the amateurs —the Vallange Company
of Fairly Capables, they may be called —who made
a satisfactory job of “The Liars” some months
ago, are going to break out again at the Princess’s
in the middle of next month. This time it is
“The Case of Rebellious Susan ” they are engaged
upon, and the good cause is the Hospital for Sick
Children. The Madden family will be largely
represented in the display. In addition to Mrs.
Vallange and her cool, collected Captain, two or
three of the plump and pretty spinsters Madden
are in the throes of rehearsal. Mrs. Alfred
Cornish and the Levey sisters will appear again
■(this sounds like an extract from Rickards’ advt.),
likewise Tom Cochrane and Hec. Macdonald.
The burden of producing the show rests with
Harry Hill, who seems to have discovered the
knack of coaching even the most tender-footed
novices without hurting their family pride. But
how comes it that Guy Madden is omitted from
these public proceedings ? They ought to “ write
in ” a small part for Guy. He could be intro-
duced as the incidental victim of a restaurant
prosecution, so that he might walk on and protest
against the absurdity of supposing that the Heir
Apparent of a Waxcellency ever stayed on licensed
premises until 1 a.m. for drinking or other pur-
poses. Whereat the other characters would at
once dismiss him without a stain on his character.
News arrives concerning Lizzie Newbold, the
Richmond girl with the phenomenal top note,
who was “taken up ” by Dames Staughton and
Harper, and exported to Europe by a syndicate to
get hall-marked on the premises of Marchesi. She
is, the report says, working like an extra large-
sized horse, her medium register is developing,
and her crop of French is coming up nicely. Miss
Newbold is a hefty young woman with a chest like
the front wall of a gladiator ; so, with her working
capacity thrown in, she is expected to hit the
world hard after two years’ more study. But
more coin is required for the syndicate didn’t
get in enough at the first raking, so the datnes
who are interested declare that something more
will have to be done for the girl.
Hugh Ward’s new show, which started its Aus-
tralian tour in the West, will, metaphorically
speaking, restore two popular local favorites
(besides Grace Palotta) to the arms of Melbourne
audiences, when it comes along next month.
Rose Musgrove and Celia Ghiloni are in the co.,
and their native city hasn’t seen either of them
for a couple of years or more. For that matcqr,
Melbourne has never yet seen the Ghiloni in
“straight” farcical comedy of the class that
“ The Bachelor’s Honeymoon” belongs to, and in
which she is said to be as much at home as Rose
Musgrove was in “ The Marriage of Kitty” and
“The Duke of Killiecrankie.”
Grace Palotta seems to be “ going it,” to use a
polite phrasing. Pictorially—and one presumes
theatrically—the lady is portrayed sitting on a
table or pedestal with little on her nether limbs
and nothing on her upper ones. The lower
anatomy boasts fleshings and an incipient skirt as
inadequate coverings for their plumpness. Hugh
Ward’s farce is probably turning to pantomime.
However that may be, the co. has had the
luck of a gentleman not named in polite
society. It has been a roaring financial suc-
cess all through the North and North-West.
Goldie, who married Dulcie Dearner, The Lone
Hand writer, is acting as advance agent to the
show, which has reached Westralia, and is going
strong in Perth.
In the Hooligan’s Dance at “ The King of
Cadonia” the management misses a big effect by
letting Gilbert and Lottie Sargeant do their
fascinating whirl in the garish surroundings of the
palace. The glitte'r arid “depth” are wholly
incongruous. A simple and artistic thing would
be the dropping of a filmy grey curtain at back
and wings—a delicate curtain,- but with a cre-
puscular density—just dusk or a river fog. The
night-black dressing, with l just the one scarlet
touch in the ’kerchief at the throat, and the
effective pale faces, would find afi ideal back-
ground. The improvement to be gained from a
subdued background is suggested ever so slightly
by the better effect of the dance, when considered
from a side seat (cutting out the worst of the
gorgeosity) than when viewed from the centre of
the house. In one of the Parisian productions an
effective backcloth of a Parisian slum street was
used. But the thought of a grey dusk to help the
haunting minor melody of the orchestra is
fascinating.
Oscar Asche, it seems, is not a native of Sydney,
where his mother has so long been known as the
proprietress of the Imperial Hotel. He is a
Geelongite by birth. In Melbourne, the Grammar
School Old Boys intend to have a re union and
sedate frisk in his honor when the gigantic actor-
manager and his brilliant wife come to hand. He
was a Grammar School pupil for years ere he was
shipped off to some relatives in Norway, from
which extra-cold country he went to England with
stage yearnings in his soul.
A recent feature on several of the golf links
around Melbourne was the massive-voiced Kolker.
Hail, shine, or rain—and it has been mostly rain—
the American actor tramped from green to green.
Golfers find it difficult to invent a new curse,
but I am informed that a certain pleasure
was recently experienced at the Victoria.
Kolker was then playing the Silver King—a part
which he referred to with characteristic emphasis
as “junk.” His opponent, some distance away,
was suddenly startled by a shriek from the
actor, who, raising his arms to the clouds,
made the welkin ring with: “Oh, God, turn
back Thy universe and give me yesterday! ”
Another golf story now going the rounds
is about an English visitor who wears a George
Reid eyeglass. He made a long drive over a
rise, and his caddie came rushing back with the
news that the ball had “’it another caddie and
killed ’im, mister.” Adjusting his monocle, the
globe-trotting golfer said : “ Haw ! Indeed.
Most wegwettable. What are the local rules in
such a case?” You can’t improve the etiquette
of golf.
The Alliance Frangaise, with a smart tri-color
strip across the corner of its carte “gives itself
the honor of the fete national” on July 14.
Hedenstrom, that big Russian with a Parisienne
wife, is president, while two beauteous youths,
A. L. de Possell and Lionel D’Antoine, assist
as secretaries.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide
Geoffrey Dutiield, the tremendously wise young
astronomer, with 29 letters chasing his name whenever
it is mentioned officially, consulted the stars the other
evening, found they were propitious, and straightway
married a Maorilandress, Miss Doris Boult. As an old
friend of'the family, Chief Justice Way gave the lady
away without disclosing anything serious ; and the gilded
young scientist accepted her along with a frock em-
bellished in Bruges lace. A Stirling maid and a Boult
damsel lent the bride their moral support, and Guy Makin
was second-best man.
Next day Mr. Harry Bray and Miss Gertrude Stow were
made happy. It occurred at Stow Church, which edifice
is a near relation of the charming bride ; and the vegeta-
tion it wore was a triumph. The wedding was viewed
mostly by relatives, and was labelled “quiet”; but
there are so many branches and twigs to both families
that it resolved itself into a good-sized affair. The frock -
ing was highly decorative ; the bride was clad in white
charmeuse and old rose point, and had two nice heliotrope
maidens to help her through.
Guli Hack, our charming singer, has made certain pro-
mises to Lawyer Willie Magarey. I suppose Miss Hack is
about the most popular woman in Adelaide. She has
polished the voices of half the young Oonservatorium
fry ever since-that institution started; and when she
leaves it at the end of this year there will be a great
wail of miser}', to be very soon drowned, however, by a
chorus of congratulation. _
Another engagement has just been told to the world
—that of Rose (daughter of the Paringa Hall Cudmores,
pf Glenelg) and Mr. R. Bickford.
You had to play “ hunt your partner ” at one of the
gayest dances we’ve had here this year, It was given by
Hfrs. J. E. Jones at to some 50 chums of her two
daughters. As you went, in you were, adorned with a
badge, and your duplicate had to hunt you out and dance
the first dance with you, even if he happened to be your
bitterest enemv —the man you had jilted and called a
fortune-hunter, and whom you had accused in strict con-
fidence to your bosom cat of wearing corsets. It set the
whole room on good and friendly terms in half a minute.
The Bosanquet Exes, are good theatre-goers, among
other things. The first night of “The Englishman’s
Home” was a “vice-regal command,” and Adelaide
brought out all its diamond tiaras from the cupboard,
where it also keeps the family skeleton, and wore them
with much glitter. After all, it is a good thing to have a
family skeleton, for you hide your gems behind it, and
when the burglar looks in and the domestic horror
gnashes at him he flees in affright. Whereas the white
flower of a blameless life wouldn t scare him in the least.
Daisy Rossi, a local maiden, has just taken her art to
Paris for further polish. For five years she has been
pluckily toiling away with her canvases in Westralia, and
has been successful too. She has orders,’tis said, to paint
some of the Forrest relatives in Britain ; and she has
saved besides, enough money to tide her over several
vears’in the Latin quarter. South Australians seem to
have a little way of earning shekels in the Golden West
before plunging up Parnassus in the ancient lands. Wini-
fred James did it, and Muriel Matters, and sundry-more.
The Holdfast Bay Yacht Club put the trappings of
joy on the Glenelg Town Hall the other night, and called
in' the youth and beauty of the land to dance. The
Boucaut dame, Mrs. Fowler Stewart; Mrs. Pearce, Mrs.
Luther Scammell, and some more were on the committee,
and worked like the unhistoric Trojan to make the thing
go. Which it did.
One of Adelaide’s medico-maids, Dr. Constance Cooper,
has just given a friendly lift in London to an old gentle-
man whom she met wandering, homeless and foodless, in
the streets. With the kind assistance, of Mr. A. K. New-
bery the old fellow was taken to St. George’s, Blooms-
bury, and was given w'ork. The old gentleman, who said
his name was Hymen, is now doinj*’ better ; and Mr. and
Mrs. Newbery intend to wander out into these parts next
September to receive the felicitations of their friends on
their thoughtful conduct.
The Old-Miniature afternoon, manipulated by the ener-
getic Boothby girls on Friday at the May Club, gave us an
opportunity to bring our ancestors out for an airing. We
have more of them than you’d think; and such a
display of old silhouettes and things Adelaide has
never seen before. The gay little club wore violets in
its belt, and there was afternoon tea to keep yon
up when you wanted to steal the miniatures
and couldn’t. Her Excellency and two cream-clad
daughters were there, and the Way dame, and
99 more. The Ways lent some exquisite miniatures ; so-
did the Hawkers, the Rymills, and various other folk-
There was a glorious Napoleon belonging to Mrs. Arthur
Kymill ; also one of the Wright family, who lived in 1750,
Furthermore, there was some exquisite work done by our
focal artists, Mrs. Mouchette and the Hambidge giris.
The Conservatoire folk have formed an Old Scholars’"
Association for past and present infants who have reachedl
the advanced age of 19. Dr. Ennis is president, and Pro
fessor Darnley Naylor is vice-same, and Ethel Cooper"
takes the money and the notes, bank and otherwise. The
association will begin to-commit various things at once,
including a dance.
The Jbhrt l Gordons had a dance the other evening in a
poppy-clad marquee ; and the George Milnes had a silver
wedding, with sassiet.v to dance at it. ■
The populous fruit-growing town of Riverton has had a
horror of the kind usually associated with the Far Back
or the ocean. Within half a mile of a main road a spring
dray turned over one dark evening, pinning under it the-
driver and hi : s son; a- boy of 1L They lay there through-
the wet, cold night,- and were found at 10'©•’clock next,
morning. At the inquest, held at the father’s bedside, he-
told how, pinned painfully and securely by one arm, with)
the horse kicking wildly close to his head, he had to lie-
there and listen to his kiddy’s appeals to “ Dad ” getting
fainter and fainter, till at last they ceased altogether.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
The late George Washington may be expected l to turn>
in his grave when the Millionaires’Theatre is opened next
November in the capital city of the Great American Re-
public. The Millionaires’Theatre has not been formally
dedicated to the plutocracy of the land of the Almighty
Combine, but its prices will be arrogantly high, and its-
productions enormously expensive—at first, anyhow.


The number of testimonials from shearers who
are using the Falkiner-801l electric shearing machine
show this invention to have such excellent qualities as
should recommend it for consideration to everyone with
sheep to shear. And to the end that it may be brought
under the notice of every Australasian sheep-owner and
shearer, it is advertised on another page of this issue.*
rj
' UWI
—lf You Are—
Interested in the Theatre
THE LONE HAND for July—from the Nellie Stewart cover
to the end —will interest You.
It is a feature number devoted to the Stage.
In it Edmund Fisher tells “ How a Theatre is Run.”
Egbert T. Russell explains how the raw neophytes of the foot-
lights blossom into “ The Ladies of the Chorus.”
Morgan McMahon recalls the personalities of bygone Australian
stars with racy comment and a profusion of quaint photographs.
A large selection of full-page photographs illustrate types of the
Australian Stage Girl.
Leon Brodzky writes of the parlous state of “Contemporary
English Drama.”
Arthur H. Adams supplies a complete one-act Play.
The glamor of the footlights is over the whole number, for a large
section of the issue is illustrated in tint—a departure that will
find place in every future number.
Among the other contents the most noteworthy is an exposure,
“ For the Public Good,” of the shocking mortality prevailing in
the ranks of the Sydney Rockchoppers—those stalwart young
Australians who go to their early death in order to provide
Sydney with sewers —and, incidentally, to keep a home together.
By this plain narrative of almost incredible fact a grave responsibility
is placed upon the Sydney citizen.
Obtainable
Everywhere.
Price
ON SALE JULY Ist.
Wonderful Australian Invention.
THE ADVENT OF THE
Falkiner-801l Patent Electric
Sheep Shearing Machine
WILL REVOLUTIONISE SHEEP SHEARING.
ELECTRIC POWER, the world over, has supplanted OLDER
METHODS. Its application for sheep shearing has been brought about
by the Falfciner-801l Co., in an INGENIOUS yet SIMPLE manner.
Their machines must commend themselves to all, because: —
1. They can be erected EASILY and ANYWHERE without the expense of a
special shed, or any alteration to existing shed.
2. They do not require one-half the power per stand of any other known
machines.
3. They run SMOOTHLY, EVENLY, and quietly.
4. They save time, money, and annoyance.
5. In construction and detail they are the acme of perfection, and only the
highest grade material is used.
6. The lightness of the whole stand and the marvellous simplicity and effective-
ness of the pattern universal JOINT defies competition.
7. ALL EXPERTS who have seen the FALKINER-BOLL MACHINES
PLUMP for them. The thing is to see them, and then you will use them.
8. THE FALKINER-BOLL POWER GRTNDER ALUMINIUM DISCS
eclipse all others, for being driven by ELECTRICITY there is no
variation of speed and complete absence of vibration.
Please write for Catalogues and full particulars to
The Falkiner-801l Patent Electric Sheep Shearing
HEAD OFFICE:
Macnine vO., Lincoln’s Inn Chambers, 175 William St., Melbourne.
Telegraphic Address —** Falkiner-Boll,” Melbourne. Code Word —** Triumphant.”
f
SHEEP SHEARING
made EASY,
EFFECTIVE, and
ECONOMICAL.
' “D.” : A question that agitates me con-
siderably just now is: “ What in the name of
insanity has happened to Ceorge Reid . I
take the following from Sydney Telegraph
(20/6/’O9): —
Mr. G. H. Reid to Young Ladies.— “ Young ladies
said Mr. G. H. Reid last night, “remember that hand-
some is as handsome does.”
And again
“Remember, young ladies, the man with the most
accomplished imagination, the most fascinating coun-
tenance, the most bewitching ways, generally makes the
worst husband.”
Then he discharged a helpful slab of advice at
“ young fellows ”: —
“ I advise every young fellow in New South Wales only
to follow the vocation he is in until he contrives to
qualify himself for another higher still,” said Mr. G. H.
Reid, last night, at the top of his bent in one of his
philosophic addresses, given- in Woolloomooioo.
Finally, this hopelessly baffling sudra, or message,
or whatever it may be called, wg£ spilled into the
atmosphere:—
“Me and Dan O’Connor.You don’t only want
knowledge,” said Mr. G. H. Reid last night at St. Peter’s
School, Woolloomooioo ; “ you want to know where to
put it. Now some great philosopher might stand up
here, and when you called on him to speak his head
would be crammed full of them, like a shop with boxes,
but he wouldn’t know where to look for them or which to
take first. Whereas you get a fellow like me that hasn’t
got all those ideas, but can get up and talk for two hours
about nothing. Don’t think I want you to cultivate the
communicative faculty only without the other,” Mr. Reid
added, holding up a warning finger. “ You’ll get a man
like myself and Dan O’Connor that way.”
Horsey folk aver that the time-worn, leg-weary,
harassed old steed that is turned out to grass and
a life of leisure breaks up quickly and becomes a
lamentable spectacle physically and mentally.
So it is, seemingly, with politicians. The pawky
clap-trap and fustian quoted above is unworthy a
tenth-rate missioner. And it is uttered by G. H.
Reid, the man whom the local dailies are mention-
ing as potential High Commissioner for Aus-
tralia ! Methinks if G. Reid is really a starter in
a fair “go” for the H. C. Stakes, his backers
should rug and stable him and put him on hard
mental feed without delay.
ANOTHER GRIEVANCE.
Should Victoria annex Tasmania or Tasmania annex
Victoria?... Captain Evans, the ex-Premier, speaking
at Launceston, said that Tasmania “must borrow money
or shut up shop and let Victoria annex them.”... His-
torically and actually, Tasmania, and not N. S. Wales, is
the mother colony of Victoria. —Melbourne 'Erald.
“ Heavens! Who are you—o —child?”
“ Shut up. I’m yer long-lost mother, I am!"
The rise, the greatness and the fall of
Victoria’s T. Bent may be gathered from the fact
that, when the boom died, he was responsible for
£16,000 in calls as regards one land bank alone —
the Australian and British Land, Deposit and
Agency—and the luckless Commercial Bank,
which had the wreck left on its hands, accepted
10s., and gave a clean receipt. The resurrected
tales of Thomas’s younger days which are coming
out in evidence before the Bent Land Commission,
bear out the theory that he always had the earth-
eating disease. When he had money he ate up
acres and square miles for himself; when he
hadn’t money he ate them up for the State.
Latterly, judging by the evidence, it would
appear that Thomas could hardly see land without
buying it for a Government bee farm, or a State
hennery, or any old thing like that.
“ Locust ” —his remarks :
One of the proposals submitted to the Commission that
is dealing with the improvement of Sydney deserves a
heap of consideration. It is for the removal of the un-
sightly Darlinghurst Gaol from the summit of the hill on
which it now stands, and the utilisation of the space,
together with the Green Park near by, partly as a garden
and partly as a site for public buildings. It was pointed
out to the Commission that some of the most notable im-
provements made in London —improvements which
changed that slummy city into a better and regenerated
metropolis—were contrived by the removal of various
prisons, such as Millbank, Pentonville, Fulham, and
Cold bath Fields, off the face of the landscape, and
the transference of the prison population to healthier
surroundings at Wormwood Scrubs, away out in the
green fields. On the site of one of these old structures—
Millbank, on the north bank of the Thames—is now
erected the beautiful Tate Gallery, containing the best col-
lection of modern pictures in London. A gaol has no more
businessin the centre of a modern city than has a slaughter-
house. An example of successful gaol removal is fur-
nished at Bathurst, where an ugly, square, red-brick,
high-walled structure once occupied the central space
where the beautiful Machattie Park now stands. The
removal of Darlinghurst Gaol is bound to happen. The
site is too fine to be permanently utilised for its present
sordid purpose.
N.S.W. country papers, which mostly
know what a struggle it is for young White Aus-
tralia to get a decent bit of land at a reasonable
price, bubbled over lately when Hullo Singh, or
something to that effect, got a scrap of the State’s
land against 72 white applicants at Maclean. But
there have been dozens of other quite as bad
cases, and the law as it stands can’t stop the
scandal. At a north-western town a few weeks
ago a Punjabi, as black as the ace of spades with
a coat of pitch added, secured an original condi-
tional purchase; and a half-caste, whose father
was a Chinaman and his mother an aboriginal
lubra, also got an original conditional purchase.
Ah Fang may be an alien himself; but even if be
takes Black Sister out of the aborigines’ camp
and mates with her, the progeny is good Austra-
lian in the eye of the N.S.W. land law.


No need any niore to be ill.
Because there’s a wonderful Pill,
Ever-growing in fame. \
Laxo-Tonic its name,
The summit of medical fafne.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.»
Walter Bradley & Go.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Dining Boom Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Ensy.-Ghairs.
Lowest Quotations for Gash.
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Ivirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
State wishes clearly, Bull Fights, etc.
and full satisfaction guaranteed:
Send. Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
GOUT.
Pain is the penalty of forcing pleasure. Over-
eating brings positive punishment. Too many
banquets! Your liver has grown torpid. The
poison of gout is in your system, and you hobble
about, a prey to misery. There is a remedy for
you, an easy one and infallible. FRANZ JOSEF
Natural Aperient Water taken every morning be-
fore breakfast will clear your alimentary canal,
and will gently stimulate the liver to its sense of
duty. The poisons in your blood will be elimi-
nated, your joints will regain their pliability, your
gout will have vanished. Franz Josef Springs.*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the cause.
Used the world over to Cure a Cold in One Day. E. W.
GROVE’S signature on box. Is. l£d.* [2
troObledwlth
RHEUMATISM ?
o
Then Treat the Cause, not
the Symptoms.
0
This Australian Woman who was
Completely Crippled found a
Permanent Cure.
If you are having trouble in curing your rheu-
matism-curing it permanently—curing it so
that it won't come back with the next cold damp
spell, you are likely going about it in the wrong
way.’ Think for a moment. The horrible twinges
and swollen joints aren t there on theii own
account. There’s something to cause them.
Now if the cause were removed wouldn’t the pains
and aches go also ? Yes, emphatically yes. Now
you are on the right track —cure the cause. Give
up pottering with liniments and things to rub on
which wouldn’t drive the rheumatic acid out of the
blood in a thousand years. That’s where Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills come in. They make new
blood and tone the system to a point where it
throws off the rheumatic impurities through the
natural channels. This isn’t theory, because they
have cured hundreds of cases. The case of Mrs.
Louisa Whitehouse, Frederick Street, Dudley,
Newcastle, is an excellent example of how they
cure. . , . ,
“About three years ago I was attacked with
violent rheumatic pains in all my bones and
joints,” said Mrs. Whitehouse. “I could not
move.’ My joints became very much swollen and
my fingers appeared to be ail out of joint. I
could not wash myself or comb my hair. My
little children had to do everything for me.
There was a creaking, crackling noise in every
joint. The pains were very severe both day and
nio-ht; they were much aggravated in damp or
changeable weather. I could not rest at night,
and my husband’s rest was also completely broken
by my agonising cries. Two doctors advised me
to take "a change. I went to Maitland, and
remained there five weeks, but got no better. I
fell away in flesh till I was but skin and bone. I
lost my appetite. I did not care what became of
me. On my return my husband advised me to
try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, as they had brought
a niece of his from death s door. I procured one
box from Mr. .T. Jones, storekeeper, but I did not
feel any better ; but by the time I had taken the
second box, I found great improvement. I kept
on with them until I had taken very nearly the
last of the fifth box, when I was free from all
aches and pains. I got my appetite back and put
on flesh rapidly. It was Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
that cured me of rheumatism, and nothing else.
You can judge the shopman’s opinion of you if
he tries to sell you anything else when you ask for
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Those “just as good”
remedies are never offered unless he thinks the
customer easy to gull. Ihe price is 2s. 9d. per
box ; six boxes 15s. 3d. ; of all dealers, or from
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney.
This Elastic Truss
llfp 3
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
is Che acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St ), SYDNEY.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
One of N.S.W. Premier Wade’s chief
deficiencies is a lack of the sense of proportion.
At his second policy speech he made the following
curious remark : “At a trade picnic with Mr.
Hughes, and, on behalf of the State Government,
he [Mr. Wade] had told him publicly that, if it
were desired to do the work [of building a fleet]
in the Commonwealth, he [Mr. Wade] would give
them a chance.” This sort of thing is not
only ridiculous, but is becoming monotonous. If
the Commonwealth wishes to build a fleet in Aus-
tralia, it has no need to go to Mr. Wade for per-
mission or facilities. It has power to take over
any part of any State for defence or military pur-
poses; power that is most emphatically and
specially granted under the Constitution for the
purpose of keeping upstart insects like Mr. Wade
in their proper place—which is on a hard chair in
the back row of things.
So far as it lias got, the Hash programme
for next Commonwealth session consists of bills
dealing with old-age pensions, Defence, the
Northern Territory agreement, the High Com-
missioner, lighthouses, the Federal Capital, sur-
plus revenue, the financial relations of Common-
wealth and States, and the New Protection ; also
sundry measures that were sawn off in the middle
when last session closed, such as the Navigation,
Seamen’s Compensation, Electoral and Marine
Insurance Bills. It is a heavy list, and full of
pitfalls to a team that doesn’t know how to pull
together and will be off the track half the time.
Yet it omits one of the things that really matter
—the Land Tax Bill which will induce the flood
of immigration without which Defence, Northern
Territory, Federal Capita], all the rest are
liable to be vain things and the mere flapping of
dead washing on a line.
Though Bent, when in power, was very
kind to his own electorate, he was ever a Tory at
heart, and few of his doles were given to the cause
of education. The other day
Brighton got hold of Murray’s
Education Minister, Billson,
and showed him the over-
crowded schools at Chelten-
ham, South Brighton,
Elsternwick and Brighton,
and then ran him into
the drill hall, where Bent
used to bellow his
policy - speeches, an d
where 220 kiddies get
what schooling they
can when the hall isn’t
required for other pur-
poses. Billson agreed
that the neglect was in-
famous; after which he sighed
wearily as he thought of how Pre-
mier Murray and Treasurer Watt had
promised three-quarters of a million to
finance a Deadhorse, while he, Billson, wanted
every penny he could lay his hands on to build
schools.
Henry Willis, M.H.R. (of N.S.W.), rushed
into print one morning last week in a manner that
must have worried the Federal Fused Government
somewhat. He was one of the majority of nine
that threw out the Fisher Ministry, and he writes
that, as the papers have hitherto failed to explain
the attitude of himself and others like him, he is
driven to do it himself. Although he voted to
eject the Labor Government, he is not a supporter
of the Fusion till that weird animal has gone to
the country and received the popular stamp of
approval. The Fusion probably guesses that the
only stamp it is likely to receive will be the im-
print of a large, heavy boot. How many more
there are who feel like Willis it is impossible to
guess, but, taking one thing with another, it is
doubtful if the new Government has a working
majority.
Tuesday, June 15, was the 76th anniver-
sary of the first general election in Sydney. The
Parliament (of one Chamber) consisted of six
official members, six non-official (nominated by
the Government) and 24 elective members. Six
of the latter represented what is now Victoria.
Five candidates were nominated for Sydney
W. C. Wentworth, Wm. Bland, M. C. O’Connell,
Cooper, and Hustler. The first two were elected.
A disgraceful riot took place over this remote
polling episode, and one man was killed. Also
the smashing of property could be heard in the
next county.
Last year the N.S.W. Government decided
to bite 100,000 acres out of the absentee
Peel River Co.’s vast estate at Tamworth ;
and, after the area had been cut up and
valued, it was offered the other day in
213 farms and 19 small suburban blocks.
For the 213 farms alone there were 611
distinct applicants. And they are not
cheap farms either ; every applicant has to
put up from £9O to £l3O for a start, and
he will have to pay the same amount
every year ; and on top of that he under-
takes to provide as an average £250 worth
of improvements inside two years. If
there are improvements on the land, of
course he doesn’t have to put them there
over again ; but there mostly are no im-
provements worth mentioning. In the
greater number of cases there is nothing
but a line of fencing, passing spmewliere
or other through the block ; and in heaps
of cases there isn’t even that. That
shows the poor use to which this vast
sheepwalk has been put. And yet, now
that it is cut up, it is reckoned that
not only should 250 families be able
to make a living on it, but that they
should be able to pay off the pur-
chase money inside 40, years.
Wade continues to add to his
reputation as the most ill-mannered
Premier in the Commonwealth. It is
only a few weeks back that Gov.-General
Dudley told him to cease yelping party
politics while Governors were having their meals.
Most men would have taken the hint, but not
Wade. Said the Telegraph (7/0/’O9) :-y
Mr. Wade took advantage of the presence of the new
Federal Minister for Defence (Mr. Joseph Cook) at the
Commercial Travellers’ function to put in a word on
behalf of the States for fair treatment when the financial
question comes under consideration again.
Another Governor, Chelmsford, happened to be
there; and though he didn’t adopt the G.-G.’s
method of rebuke, he set Wade a fine example of
how not to babble politics by relating nice little
anecdotes about his big brother in Italy.
One day last week Sydney Evening
News published a picture which is labelled “ The
Federal Capital Site in N.S.W.; a view looking
north from Canberra Hill.” There was a low
hill far off on the left, and another far off on the
right. For the rest, there were some stunted
trees and a great flat expanse covered with some
pale substance, that looked like dust or sand. In
all the miles and miles of expanse there wasn’t a
trace of anything that suggested water, though
presumably some drinkable trifle must be hanging
around somewhere. It was just an ordinary tenth-
rate scene, no better than 50,000 other scenes that
lie around loose in Australia. It is a notable fact,
by the way, that the four men who were appointed
to select the site were all Sydneyites. As a mere
matter of common fairness, it might have been
well to let some men from other States have a
show, so that the selection wouldn’t be left too
exclusively to individuals who were likely to
regard nearness to Sydney as the first and only
essential.
HASH.
ELECTOR: “ Hash! Hash!! Who the H—L
ordered Hash !”
A Commonwealth return just issued shows
one of the effects of a long course of Foreign-trade.
In N. S. Wales in 1907 there were only 467 appli-
cations for patents ; in Victoria there were 953, or
more than twice as many. The figures for N.S. W.
were even worse than that once, but as Ma gets
into the habit of making things instead of import-
ing them, it finds a better use for some of the wits
it used to employ in faking invoices, etc. ; conse-
quently last year it applied for 566 patents, or
99 more than it did in 1907, while Victoria applied
for 957. The country that sits on a stool, and
mostly calls itself an importer or an agent, natu-
rally doesn’t invent anything, as a rule, except a
new swindle; but when it gets to work among
machinery it leaves off thinking about the new
swindle, and starts thinking about new machines
or new processes.
Foxton, of Queensland, who is to repre-
sent Australia’s new Hash Government at the
Defence Conference in London, is a fine old Tory
who believes in the naval subsidy ; thinks there
should either be no Australian navy or one wholly
under British control; and claims that Australia,
instead of having compulsory military training
for local defence, should keep a small regular force
always ready to be sent abroad to make a red
splash on the earth m Britain’s foreign wars. I' or
the errand on which he is going a worse undesir-
able than Foxton it would be hard to find.
“ BULLETIN ” TYPES CARICATURED.
The hardest-looking thing yet said about
the Hash Government is that it is a svzygy.
That quaint humorist, Gregor McGregor, threw
the strange-looking remark at the Senate during
the Address-in-Reply ; and Millen and the rest
swallowed it in silence. They didn’t know exactly
what awful insult they might invite if they asked
him to explain the deadly word ; and evidently
they didn’t have a dictionary handy.
“ B. 6 Y.” questions :
Does an officers’ war council ever consult non-commis-
sioned men? Has a band of lions ever conferred with a
mob of jackals as to when and how the former shall act?
Do Hordern’s chiefs insist on counter hands controlling
head office finances ? Did it ever occur that Zulu war-
riors asked the opinion of African pigmies? Have
printers’ devils at any time been permitted to dictate a
big newspaper’s policy? Do Admiral Hardcase and staff
persist in allowing the bo’s’n and his mates to manoeuvre
the fleet? Are Newcastle coal bosses subject to the
instructions of pit boys? When did boundary riders and
dog poisoners take full charge of Australian squatterdom ?
Is a part greater than the whole, or six-sevenths more
than one? Then what possesses the Australian Parlia-
ment to take any notice whatever of State Premiers?
The Deakook Government has a nice com-
fortable time ahead of it in the Senate. Out of the
36 members 15 are Laborites, while Trenwith is a
sympathiser, which makes 16. That leaves 20
Ministerial men, but as Gould is President
the Government can only rely at the most on 19
even if they all attend. ” Millen, the new Minis-
ter, jauntily told the press that, in spite of the
numbers, they were all right—the Government
men would just have to attend. Whereat Millen
was angrily told that where the Senate was con-
cerned there was no such phrase as “have to.”
Next day saw a tearful apology from Millen ; he
only meant that he would rely on patriotism, etc.,
etc. Things were left at that till ’Siah Symon—
overlooked in his absence—blew in from Europe
to remark that the new Government was a joke ;
and down went the reliable 19 to 18. And all the
time Millen looks anxiously towards the also over-
looked Brigadier Neild, and wonders whether
those magnificent moustaches will also be there
when wanted.
The Old Soldier’s opinion :
Bulletin (3/6/’O9) asks if Australia can afford a navy?
Surely the question is not whether Australia can afford
to have a navy, but whether it earn afford to do without
one. It is not merely as a protection against any
particular foreign Power that Australia needs its navy, but
as a force for patrolling and guarding its coasts against
smugglers, poachers on its fisheries, and certain other
lawless vermin. Australia has a coast line nearly 9000
miles long (8947 miles exictlv), most of it almost entirely
unsettled, and it would be—in fact it is—the easiest thing
in the world, not only to poach on the fishing grounds,
but to introduce contraband goods .'of great value and
small bulk, and contraband,immigrants. Within a short
distance of the northern coast are the islands of the great
Indian Archipelago, inhabited by races almost all of
whom are not only bold and skilful sailors and fishermen,
but whose menfolk have been accustomed from
time immemorial to frequent the Australian coast
on fishing, trading, and possibly slave-hunting ex-
peditions,' which practices they still follow. The
immediate need in the way of a floating force is a few
swift and handy armed vessels. The desiro.vers ordered
by the late Federal Government exactly fill the bill. : Of
course, it is not to be assumed that they will be the limit
of Australia’s naval ambition. They will have to be fol-
lowed in due course by cruisers well' enough armed to
take a hand in a fight with something stronger than a
smuggler or poacher. As Carnegie noted recently, cer-
tain folks are going big-batt!eship mad. If ever is
another naval war, we shall find that fleet-actions, as
they used to be called, will play a relatively small part in
it. ' Most of the real fighting will be, as it has.been in all
past wars, either between small squadrons of two or three
ships, or single cruisers—frigate-actions, as they used to
be called. It will be the cruisers and, perhaps,
destroyers acting with them, that will do the commerce-
destroying in the next war, if the Powers dpn’t before
then decide that private property must be respected,
unless it is either contraband, or carried in violation of
an effective blockade of which due notice has been given.
All that involves going rather deeply into international
law, but one thing is certain—if Australia is expected to
do anything in the way of helping to protect the poor old
Empire’s sea-borne trade, it will not be by building
battleships, but swift and powerful cruisers, with plenty
of coal capacity, so that they can keep the sea for a
reasonable time". It might even be a fair thing in case of
war for the Commonwealth to take the responsibility for
the Indian and part of the South Pacific Oceans, and let
the “ decisive battle in the North Sea ” take care of itself.
The N.S.W. Supply and Tender Board
has been at it again. Parliament years ago
booted out the proposed vote to the already
highly-paid members of this Board ; and it also
snorted scornfully when later on the Minister
pleaded that the proposed allowance was in the
nature of overtime pay. Now, however, a
Gazette notice has appeared, reducing the size of
tlie Board, but appointing a chairman at 30s. a
sitting, and four members at 15s. ; and the mem-
bers are to be the same old highly-placed officers
about whose extra payment Parliament has
repeatedly expressed the emphatic opinion.
But Wade lias to shovel out the money some-
how in order to keep up the fiction about the
State’s urgent need for a big share of the Customs
and Excise money after the disappearance of the
Braddon clause. Wade apparently wouldn’t lose
that chance of being disagreeable to the Aus-
tralian Government —not for any money.
WHEN THE BAD AUSTRALIAN DIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a better time a-comin’ when our clouds ’ave rolled
away ;
‘N’ we carn’t ’ave long t’ wait now, f’r th’ breakin’ of th’
day ;
F’r our night ’as been a long ’un —full o’ tricks ’n’ schemes
’n’ lies ;
But we’ll scare the older nations when the Bad Austra-
lian dies.
We ’ave stood ’im pretty well, consid’rin’ of our Saxon
pluck ;
’N’ ’is mad ’n’ empty ravin’s, ’n’ ’is rakin’ of th’ muck.
But 'e’s ’ad ’is day, me comrades, ’n’ it’s time we gripped
our prize,
F’r th’goal is straight afore us, row fch’ Bad Australian
dies.
O !—we’ll make the Old World tremble in th’ golden days
to be ;
We’re the boshter coinin’ people of the earth, ’tween you
’n’ me.
F’r we’re goin’t’ build a nation where our starry standard
flies ;
Goin’t’ live our life in earnest when th’ Bad Australian
dies.
VICTORIA.
WILLIAM H. ELSUM.
FUSION AT FITZROY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A meeting to form a branch of the Commonwealth
Liberal party was held at Ford’s Hall, Brunswick-street,
Fitzroy (Vic.), last night. There was an attendance of
between 30 and 40 ladies and gentlemen. —Daily Paper.
The voice of Fitzroy is a voice of joy—old Fitzroy for the
Fusion hath spoken !
Look ! —the crowd in the hall! They are Liberals all, and
their spirit is proud and unbroken !
Hear the beautiful din where the Liberal chin now is
wagging in salvos ecstatic !
See the waving of paws ! Oh, the roars of applause and
the clank of umbrellas emphatic !
There is utter delight for the speaker to-night iu the
thunders that roll at his bidding.
Yes, the Liberal crowd is exceedingly proud—it can drive
the State car without skidding.
How the word-lightnings flash to the soul-stirring crash
of exploding emotional geysers !
Oh, the crackle of cheers that the press-person hears, and
the cackle of she-sympathisers !
There is joy and to spare in the crowd gathered there,
and the fizz of free speech is un wired,
And the cork is removed, for the Fusion has proved at
Fitzroy to be greatly admired.
No longer need Labor supporters be gay, nor the Cookites
be grumbling and shirty,
It is plain that there’s joy in the heart of Fitzroy— the
attendance is well over thirty!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


H
SOLE AGENTS:
These Highly Artistic Pianos
Have been proving tHeir
excellence in Australia for
the past 40 Years.
To such good purpose Have
they done it, that we find it
difficult to Keep pace witH
orders.
The last consignment re-
ceived are real beauties,
there being a poetry in tHeir
tone that will appeal to all
musicians, wHilst tHeir case-
worK is very chaste.
As to tHeir durability, we
cannot speaM too Highly, and
we substantiate what we say
with our full guarantee.
We sell these Pianos for
casH or on easy terms, and
our Catalog'ues are yours
for the ashing.
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
BOOMERANG
miM
awmded
wwm pcix
ATT XJriLE
FRANCO -BRITISH EXHIBITION
■£o
(O
REGARDING RUTS
T y AYE you ever felt the narrowing, cramping’ influence of a rut? If you have not
I | you are an extraordinarily favored being, and ought to thank your stars for being
so lucky. If you have, you have gone through the average experience of the
average man.
RUTS are the great obstacles to our progress in. life. A RUT is death to vitality and
ambition. A RUT means the ordinary—the common-place—the average, everyday way
of doing things.
It is easier to get into A RUT than out of one.
We Specialty Appeal to You who Pay Rent .
Make a start towards getting a home of your own. RICKARD’S EASY TERMS
pave the way for you to
GET OUT OF THE RUT
of rent-paying. The properties mentioned hereunder are in every way suitable for a nice
suburban home. Make a start NOW ;it will cost no more than your present rental to
GET A HOME OF YOUR OWN.
We are selling splendid level building
sites at
Emerald Hills Estate ,
at exceedingly low prices, ranging from SIX
SHILLINGS PER FOOT.
The location is between
Belmore and Bankstown
Railway Stations, and immediately sur-
rounding Punchbowl Station. City gas and
water are available. There is a good train
service, and weekly tickets only 2/6. LOTS
about 50 x 210. Only 6s. per foot.
Ancl at that ideal residential area, known as
Greenacre Park Estate,
which surrounds Bankstown Station, we are
selling
Full Acre Blocks for £3O.
There are also several lots of a very liberal
size for £l6 10s. each.
GREENACRE PARK is within 30
minutes of the city. Weekly Tickets, 2/7-
Lovely broad acres and charming views.
Greenacre Park is in a class by itself.
Business Sites at 35/- per foot.
NOTE THE VERY EASY TERMS.
Deposit 20/-, and Repayments of 10/- per month.
Write or call for a plan without delay, as we are selling 1 fast.
The values will rise. Get in early, and reap the benefit.
Our salesmen will attend both estates on SATURDAY and WEDNESDAY
AFTERNOONS, from 2 to 5.
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO. LTD.,
S4B PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sellers of Good Land on Easy Terms.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is_ the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PlLES.—There is no more distressing and
painful complaint from which you can suffer
than Piles. The most effective cure is BALLAS
BALM. Certain in every case. Obtainable from
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
itching, blind, bleeding or protruding piles in I
days, or money refunded. 2s. 3d.*
case of
3 to 14
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills Superior to
All Others.
The prudent housewife always keeps a bottle in
the house, for she has learnt by experience that
Nature occasionally requires some assistance, and
that this assistance is best afforded by prompt
recourse to Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills. In
thousands of homes the
little amber bottle in
which these pills are pack-
ed is the sole medicine
chest, for in almost every
case of sickness Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
can be administered with
beneficial results. What-
ever the ailment, it is
imperative that the bowels
shall be kept free, ; and
the process by which the
blood is purified shall be
stimulated. Many a seri-
ous illness may be prevent-
ed by the timely use of
these pills, which, being
vegetable, do not weaken,
sicken nor gripe, and may
be taken by the most deli-
cate woman or the young-
est child.
“I was a sufferer from headaches and consti-
pation for a long time,” writes Mrs. Eva Leach,
10 May Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, “and in
search of a remedy I decided to give Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills a trial. I have pleasure in
stating that I was not only relieved from head-
aches, but I do not suffer from irregularity as in
the past. With my children I also found your
pills most effective in regulating their bowels. I
always keep the pills in the house, and can
safely recommend them as a good remedy for
headache and constipation, mild in their action
and permanent in their effects.*
D?
DIRECTIONS
INDIAN ROOT
PIUS
ALE
’S
E. RESCII, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Wanganui River behaved badly a few days
before the Arnst-Webb race. It got flooded, and brought
•down masses of trees and dead timber, which prevented
the scullers taking much exercise. Up to the last minute
before the race the news was that both scullers were
wonderfully well ; and both had been chipping large
hunks off their previous records over the course ; so that
something hair-raising was expected. In fact, there was
a dark suspicion that the chief danger was lest the
scullers should be consumed in the flame generated by
the friction of the boats through the water at the awful
speed that was to take place.
The race was for the championship of the world
and a side wager of £lOOO. Arnst, who started as cham-
pion, weighed 13st. 31b., and Webb list. lib. Although
Arnst was described as being very fit, it was given out
that about a week before the race he had caught cold,
and was showing very bad signs. Then he was well
again and was a hot favorite but still the Webb party
snapped up all the odds the public cared to lay on
Richard. Last time, it will be remembered, the disquiet-
ing rumors got going about Webb, who went out favorite
and got donkey-licked.
The day of the race was showery—and showery
at Wanganui means beastly wet anywhere else. In spite
of the rain, great crowds were planted along the banks,
and the Maoris lined the shore in ancient war, and other
canoes. Scores of men on horseback saw the start, and
then galloped along the river bank, whooping and cheer-
ing. Many of these centaurs were natives who stood
erect on their horses’ backs to get a better view, and yelled
and cheered like mad. Arnst started a firm favorite.
Arnst wore his black singlet, embellished with the silver
fern, and Webb was in light blue. Arnst won, but at
time of writing there are no particulars available as to
by how much, or anything else. So at present the only
outstanding fact is that William Webb, after a brief and
moderatelv glorious run, steps permanently down among
the great has-beens. It is the old story over again—the
good big man overmatched the good little man. Arnst
is the big man.
* ■* * *
In the second Test the Australian XI. (Ltd.)
took the field with an allegedly sick team. “ Whitty laid
up with influenza, Armstrong with a bad leg, Noble and
Gregory suffering from climate,” flashed the cable.
Whitty was left in bed, and the rest of the wrecks crawled
on to take part in what appeared on paper a forlorn hope
and a certain dbbfi.de. The Lion’s tail was exalted by
reason of the desperate efforts which the Australians had
lhad to put up to defeat even the weakest teams. Noble
won the toss, and sent the English to bat on a drying
wicket. Noble, Cotter and Laver proved too deadly,
gathering in wickets at a great rate: Noble three for 42,
Cotter four for 80, and Laver three for 75. Englandmanaged
to scrape up 269 with difficulty, and when the Australians
responded with 350, owing chiefly to Hansford’s 143
not out, the sun shone brightly. Bardsley made 46,
Noble 32, Trumper 28, and the rest a few among them.
So the Lion started with a deficit of 81, and then Arm-
strong happened along and reaped six wickets for 35
runs, and England crawled away to the pavilion leaving
121 runs behind it. This left Australia with only 41 to
get to win ; and they were got with the loss of one
wicket, which left the victory to Australia with a margin
of nine wickets. The result of the match was to fulfil the
words of the prophet who said that one never knows
what is going to happen at cricket till the numbers are up.
Flushed with their success in the Test, the Aus-
tralians raged away to Glaisgae, and smashed the Scots
by piling - up 576 in one innings against Scotia’s 244 and 144.
The feature of the match was the fearsome scoring of
Macartney (124), Hartigan (115), and Bardsley (108). The
Scots philosophically went back to whusky, and dared the
XI. to meet them at that. The Australians shied off.
■* * * *
Warwick Armstrong has two big records with
the ball in test matches this tour. In the first test he
gathered in five wickets for 27 runs in a total of 121; and
in the second test he took six wickets for 35, also in a
score of 121. •
-* •*
The character of Ransford’s batting in the
second Test can be judged from the fact that early
in his innings he scored 51 runs in 65 minutes what time
Victor Trumper was making 28. The man who scores
twice as fast as Trumper for an hour, and subsequently
puts on another 70 runs or so by steady play, is equally
capable of winning a game or preventing a defeat. Be-
fore the tour of the Australians is over it will probably be
found that the young Victorian can do his side as much
service by stonewalling as by hitting out, and is the
daddy of the crowd at “mixing it.” It is usually the trouble
with the best of the English batsmen that they are unable
to mix it. They can be patient like Hayward (whose
patience is a deadly virtue), or dashing like Hobbs, but
they rarelv or never combine the two qualities.
* * * *
“ Cricket Crank ” writes : The success of left-
hander Ransford against England at Lord’s coincides with
that of another Australian colt ten years ago, when Victor
Trumper, on the same ground, made 125, and, with Clem
Hill, put up a staggering performance—Clem’s little lot
being 135 not out. Up to that match the great Victor
was only half a member of the team. Like James Kelly
he was put into the XI. after the rest had been chosen—
forced in, as a matter of fact, by popular frenzy. When
he had proved himself, he was lucky enough to get his
share increased. James never received more than a half-
share. It was this half-share swindle and robbery which
first prompted the idea of the Board of Control, although
that body was bound to evolve in some form or other in
the fulness of time. Private letters from members of the
present XI. indicate that English cricketers are charmed
with the work of Bardsley and Ransford.
Bardsley’s first three innings were all over 60, and were
followed up by 219 against Essex. These deeds of
derring-do caused the Englishmen to regard him as an
even greater cricketer than the mighty Clem Hill. In
fact, in English opinion he is wearing the mantle of Clem
Hill under one of his own. Another private letter tells
of the remarkable miss made by Oates off Cotter. It was
a skier straight overhead, and Oates, wicket-keeping,
failed to touch the ball. In falling it touched one of the
stumps without removing the bails. All sorts of wild
yarns are told of the vagaries of cricket balls. In a match
at Rusheutter’s Bay'(Sydney) the bail was knocked feet
into the air and fell back into the hole whence it had
come. There was a lot of argument as to whether the
batsman was out or not. He didn’t think so, but the
umpire did, and the umpire spoke last.
Veteran Peter McAlister keeps up a sequence
of double-figure scores. To the end of the second test
Mac had scored 11 double-figure efforts ill succession.
Also, up to the end of that time Bardslev had scored 772
runs, Armstrong 564, Itansford 537, and Trilmper 518,
* * * *
Some time ago this paper Suggested that if the
Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees would not meet the
Cricket Association on something like reasonable terms,
the Association should remove the venue of International
and State matches to Wentworth Park, and loan the
Wentworth Park Trustees the £5OO donated by the
Cricket Ground Trust for the purpose of start-
ing a decent grandstand. The Cricket Associa-
tion has fallen in with the suggestion and inti-
mated to the Cricket Ground Trust that, failing a
sweeping reduction in prices, big cricket moves to the
western park. At Sydney Cricket Ground the trustees
collar all the revenue from refreshment pavilions and the
season tickets of an army of “members,” and a big per-
centage of the gate money as well. Altogether the C.G.
Trust appears to be in for a rough time. The Rugby Union
is also kicking against the charges, and if both these
bodies leave it, the members won’t get the worth of the
price of their yearly tickets.
A disastrous explosion took place at Waverley
Oval on Saturday, when the swelled head of Paddington
baseball team, unduly inflated by 13 consecutive wins,
finally blew right up, owing to Waverley having defeated
the champions by three to two.
G. A. Chapman gathered in the N.S.W. bowl-
ing championship last week, when he defeated “Jack”
Harrison by 31 points to 22. The event had been hung
up for a time owing to unsatisfactory weather and other
hindrances. Chapman takes the title for the second time
(the other success was in 1907); and he has also held the
championship of the Chatswood (N.S.W.) club for four
years.
* * * *
N.S.W. Amateur Sports Federation is in deep
water, and the curse of the Baker scandal is likely to come
home to roost with startling suddenness. The Cyclists’
Union is threatening to withdraw, and the Amateur
Athletic Association is practically pledged to follow suit.
The defection of these two would be bad enough, but at
the annual meeting of the Swimming Association that
body will, if the present feeling continues, certainly elect
a committee which is also committed to secession. And
when these three important bodies go, the Federation will
be in the position of a man who has lost both arms and
his head Anyhow, after the shameful decision in the
Baker and Miller cases the Federation doesn’t deserve to
live. It has degenerated from the position of a judicial
body to that of private thug for the Metropolitan Rugby
Union—a concern which kills off the men who have dis-
pleased the Rugby Union, and whitewashes those whose
services are useful to the hoof ball combine. On the ground
that a professional in one branch of sport is a professional
in all, it blew Miller out of amateur athletics
because ~ he was one of the organising minds of the
rejuvenated Rugby League. Then it declined to blow
“ Snowy ” Baker out of amateur Rugby although he had
earned money by boxing. The Rugby Union was most
anxious to have Miller thrown out—he was a dangerous
man from the Rugby Union’s standpoint. The same body
wanted Baker whitewashed, because he is a rattling good
player, who would play for it. And the Federation
obliged both times, thereby proving itself totally unfit
to assess the case of a lost dog, and a subservient in-
stitution which judges cases, not on their merits or
according to its own rules, but in accordance with the
interests of the Rugby Union. Which means, of course,
that every amateur athlete is at the mercy of the Rugby
Union. And the amateurs are not going to put up with
that sort of alleged justice.
What makes the other amateurs so mad is that,
till the League rent the Rugby kingdom in twain, the
football crowd had no time for, or interest in, the other
athletic bodies ; and it played a very lone hand indeed.
With the appearance of the League the Union became
quite a monument of fraternity. It discovered that it had
football brothers who played “ Soccer ” and another game
known as “ Australian ” ; and nearly killed some of them
by condescending to nod, and proposing to let them
occasionally have the use of some of the grounds over
which it has first claim. Then it became a “good
fellow” all round, and took a kindly interest in amateur
swimming, athletics and cycling; and jumped
at the idea of forming a Federation to guard
and keep amateurism spotless and unsullied from
the world of professionalism. And now the other
bodies, with their eyes fixed on the Baker and Miller
cases, snort angrily that the Union has become friendly
merely that it may be able to use them to penalise its
rebels. Which shows that the men who run the Rugby
Union are astute. The trouble is that the other fellows
are not as dense as the Rugby Union would like them to
be. Meanwhile, one of the affiliated bodies proposes to
disqualify one of its members, who is a prominent Rugby
player, for not paying up his subscription. Then the
Federation will be requested to make the disqualification
general, and the fun will begin; but it will probably be
cut short by the Rugby Union paying the arrears.
*•*■*■*
Rugby Union football is flourishing in Victoria,
despite the rush and bustle of the veiled-professional
Australian Rules promoters. Five clubs—Melbourne,
East Melbourne, South Melbourne, University, and St.
Kijda—struggle for the Dewar Shield trophy on week-end
days; and the visit from the N.S.W. team later on will
doubtless put fire into the game, and . awaken the
opposing promoters to the fact that there are other lions
on the shore roaring for gate-money.
* * * «
Some interesting things creep into the glare of
day, just occasionally. One Atkyns, a member of the
Essendon (Association) football club, was lately accused
of stoushing one of his fellow’bailers, and it was men-
tioned, during the discussion of his alleged misdemeanor,
that he used to play with the Northcote club. Asked
why Northcote had failed to adhere to him, the ’Oote
delegate admitted that the gentleman’s price was too
high. Which seems to indicate that Mr. Atkyns plays, or
did play, for money, a thing so astounding that this paper
must refuse to believe it without corroboration.
* * * *
The Metropolitan Rugby Union (Sydney) is
beastly hard-up. The purchase of the Epping ground in
West Sydney made so large a gulf in its resources that it
has the same feeling in its pocket that it might have in
its stomach if it had missed its dinner for two days. In
time to come the Epping ground may prove a valuable
asset; but the time is not yet, and at present it is a dead
horse, a white elephant and an incubus. The deal was a
splendid one for the vendor, but a blunder on the part of
the purchaser. No matter what happens to him, a man
who can sell property in the way Mr. Smith sold Epping
will never be stuck for a few hundreds when he wants
them.
* * • *
“ Barracker,” his query: What is the fact
regarding the alleged antiquity of British Association
football? lam under the impression that both the “Soc-
cer ” and “ Rugger ” games date back to about the middle
of the last century. This boasting about “ Soccer” being
the classic form of the game gets me mad. Please spread
yourself.
Here beginneth the spread: Football was
originally, as far as we know, played by the Greeks ; but
as they were great thieves they probably stole it from
some other people. They played the Association game in-
asmuch as the ball had to be propelled by the feet alone.
The Romans stole it and called it “ harpastuin,” which
was the Latin or Romish for hard pastime. For under
Roman rules it was rough—very rough ; and played
mostly by the gladiators to get themselves fit for battles
in the arena. Under Roman rules the leather could be
kicked, thrown, hit, biffed or carried, so the game was
really Rugby. These depraved ruffians introduced it
into Britain during the reign of Claudius Nero, and
ibhh Tritons took to it. After the departure of
the Romans, Association rules seem to have been
adopted, and these held sway down till 1175, when the
South of England began to revert to Roman rules while
the North played with the feet alone. Edward 11. pro-
hibited football in towns on account of the damage done
in the streets by the leather. Ned 111. prohibited it
throughout the kingdom, and ordered the people to take
to archery instead—which they did, as football meant
the loss of one or both ears. Right down till the time
of Charles 11. it was a prohibited game ; but it seems to
have been played a lot, all the same. The Roman
(Rugby) rules again got going in the South of England,
and Jimmie 11. again prohibited it. The North and Scot-
land seem to have been true to the Association form.
During the 18th century football practically died out,
but it was revived again about 1830 in the great
schools, where both forms of the game were played. Rugby
was the most brutal form, and it was not till 1877 that
hacking was eliminated. On account of its simplicity the
Association game has always been the more popular, and
Rugby football cannot claim to have been the popular
game'of England for several centuries. Of course, the
modern Rugby game is quite a new thing ; but the old
Roman rules were the foundation of it. At the present
time Rugby is anything but popular in Britain, where
Association is the game of the mass of the people. Here
endeth the spread.
» ■» * «
Rugby Union football in Sydney on Saturday
last was a flat, stale and unprofitable form of amusement.
The matches were all of the runaway order and of prac-
tically no interest. At Sydney Cricket Ground the
champion Rugby Union team —Newtown —got poor little
Western Suburbs jambed up against the line, and in-
dulged in an afternoon’s target practice, scoring 25 points
to six. Another butchery took place at tbe Sports
Ground, where Glebe caught North Sydney and fell on it,
25 to eight. Certainly the fact that St. George w’alloped
Balmain by 18 to five occasioned some mild surprise ; but
interest was dead. For the rest, University downed
Eastern Suburbs by 11 to three ; Sydney overthrew Manly
by 16 points to 11, and South Sydney had the bye.
4 * * *
The position in the competition is practically
unaltered, South Sydney and Glebe being dead level with
14 points each. Newtown is lying second with 13 points,
and Western Suburbs and University are together in a
bad third line with 10 points each. After that, single
figures and despair.
* * *. *
The All Blacks, having journeyed to Brisbane,
met a crowd there better suited to their need than they
found in Sydney, and Queensland was beaten by 18 points
to five. It is now said that at the last match in Sydney
the home team was instructed to throw the game away—
first, out of courtesy to the visitors, who had already been
walloped sufficiently ; and, second, to remove any impres-
sion in the public mind that the alleged All Blacks were
merely a team of scratch mediocrities. If that report
was true—well, it may be good manners, but it isn’t good
policy. The public wants to see genuine effort always,
and at an inter-State match it turns its thumbs down
every time.
* * * *
In the Sydney Rugby League competition,
South Sydney is on the slippery apex of the diamond-
ridge of success with 12 points. Eastern Suburbs hangs
from a glittering crag just below with 10. Balmain is
third with eight; and below that a ghastly gap of four
separates it from the nearest climbers deep down amid
the shadows of the single figures.
**, * *
In the Sydney Soccer competition Prymoht still
dances on the top of the heap with 15 points; while
Rozelle struggles close up with 14, and Sydney is
behind with 13. The excitement of Saturday centred
round the victory of the baby club, Newtown, which
downed Western Suburbs with the respectable margin of
three goals to nil. Poor Sydney had a rough time at the
feet of the veterans of Rozelle, who walked over it, but
also contented themselves by winning out With three to
nothing. Balmain and Granville drew Without scoring.
North Sydney received the usual forfeit from Garden
Island, and Pyrmont and Ultimo did not play.
* * * *
So that the season shall not come to an untimely
close in the middle of September, and, incidentally, with
a view to two extra “ gates,” the Vic. Football League has
arranged two dates whereon only three matches shall be
played, the other two transpiring the following week end.
Last Saturday was the first of those dates. Consequently
the customary crowds distributed themselves more com-
pactly than usual, some 32,000 standing in the rain at
Carlton to observe the concussion of the Old Blues and
Essendon, concerning which this writer remarks that he
has seldom spent a more melancholy' afternoon or viewed
a less agreeable game. It was hardly' a game, anyhow, but
rather a series of episodes, mostly of the sort one would
gladly forget. There was no football —the sodden ground
and the greasy ball forbade that—neither was there any
open stoush ; but there were times when one would have
thought more of certain players had they stood up to
one another and “dealt it out” in fair, manly fashion.
The umpire saw little, or, if he did, said nothing ; though
in the last quarter, when Carlton had a comfortable lead
and ’Don was making strenuous efforts to pull up, he did
occasionally penalise the unsportsmanlike trick of kick-
ing out of bounds. But the sly elbow-jab, the deliberate
tripping and the practice of jumping at a man after he
had caught the ball fairly in his hands —all passed unre-
buked. It was poetical justice that one jumped-on
man, who could be seen limping painfully through more
than half the game, afterwards kicked two goals. There
were few present who were sorry when the spectacle
was over and darkness obliterated the scene. Scores —
Carlton, 50 ; Essendon, 33. The sizeable crowd that paid
its respects —and its cash—to South and St. Kilda got
little joy out of the collision of the two neighbor clubs;
but, though they departed in disgust long before the close,
that was solely by reason of the lopsidedness of the argu-
, ment. By three-quarter time “Skinner’s hirelings” had
piled up 53 points to the Saints’ 19 ; the addition of 44
more as against St. Kilda’s one in the last term was
a gratuitous insult—a jumping on the prostrate dog
and a rubbing of it in, in a manner of speak-
ing. This writer hereby urges the St. Kilda team
to get a new committee, if it can compass it; the players
are practically the same who battled into third place
last year, yet they have only won one match this season.
Possibly a new team might be a better alternative ; but
you can get committeemen two for sixpence anywhere,
whereas you must either train or buy your players. On
the Richmond ground the conquerors of South, Essendon,
and Melbourne were nearly capsized by Geelong, solely
through their lamentable kicking, only four of their 19
scoring shots going where they were intended. As the
seasiders were always close up, and their lighter men
lasted better in the heavy going, excitement stayed with
the crowd till the bell rang the knell of vanished hopes.
Geelong was 37 to Richmond’s 39.
* * * *
The Victorian Association scuffles were mainly
notable for the weighty punishment handed out by the
respective victors. There is no necessity for a team with
a solid lead to act the giddy ass in the last quarter ; still,
when Essendon had notched 42 points at lemon time to
Port’s four, the further addition of 44 to Port’s one W'as
good neither for the sport nor the gate. Possibly the
awful walloping may do Port good ; but this writer has
his doubts. Port’s case seems to call for dynamite.
The disaster that occurred to North at the feet
of Footscray—2l points to 71 —also seems to need the
anatomist or the undertaker ; while Brunswick’s 21
against P’ran’s 61, at Toorak Park, can only be excused
on the ground that ’Wick was drunk or obsessed by its
propinquity to so much capital. Anyhow, Brunswick has
been acting the goat lately, and there are enough of those
mammals at large already. Brighton restrained its
tendency to jump on ’Cote, merely impressing its supe-
riority by a seemly score of 63 to 37 ; while Preston shot
forth'another flash of the brilliant form that defeated
Essendon by scoring 55 to Williamstown’s 26. ’Town is
understood to be still unconscious.
On Friday night the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron gave the recently-returned member, Mr.
Marks, a dinner of welcome, and the arrived wanderer
told of his travels, and exhibited some magnificent
photographic slides he had accumulated in the course
thereof. Some of the pictures—from snapshots of
a life on the ocean wave—roused the collected
sea dogs to enthusiasm. Mr. Marks was for
some time a guest of Thomas Lipton, and told how that
magnate runs his craft on a scale of gorgeousness that
heats anything Sardanapalus ever attempted. What
broke up Mr. Marks most was that, when he went below
with the intention of turning in, he suddenly found him-
self seized, carried into the cabin, undressed and put to
bed in a way that struck the healthy, independent
Australian as just simply horrible. He endured it
once, just for the novelty of the thing, and to see
exactly what high life afloat in British waters is like ; but
once was quite enough. Mr. Marks is almost as good a
photographer as he is a yachtsman ; and his collection of
pictures should be acquired by the club and exhibited at
regular intervals. They are as good as a trip round the
world.
* * * *
The champion motor boat of the world, owned
by the Duke of Westminster, which was run at Monaco
under the name of the builders—Wolseley-Siddeley—had
to have the name changed, as the English motor boat
clubs forbid trade names. So his Grace has christened the
flyer the Ursula. Ursula means “a female bear,”and why
in thunder a boat that averaged 38 miles an hour in the
100 miles race, and is capable of over 40 miles an hour for
short spins, should be named after a slow and lumbering
beast is a mvstery.
* * * *
The Automobile Club of Victoria has taken the
bull by the horns, and announced that it is prepared to
ex imine candidates and issue licenses of competency to
chauffeurs. A special committee, which includes men of
expert knowledge, has been appointed to hold the ex-
aminations; and the licenses, which will be properly
registered at the Club, will remain the property of
that body, and can be cancelled or suspended
at the discretion of the Special Committee. A
record will be kept so that any professional driver,
holding a license from the Club, can have it en-
dorsed when applying for employment, and thereby
obtain a reference as to ability which will be Worth all
the other recommendations he may receive from indi-
vidual employers, The license fee is fixed at the ex-
tremely moderate figure of Ss., and the docttmehb Will
state clearly whether the driver is expert with petrol,
steam, or electric cars, or all three. Only men Who have
passed rigid examinations will be supplied, and if people
employ Unlicensed drivers they will be knowingly taking
oh men who have either heglected to pass or failed to
pass the prescribed tests,
* 4 * *
The Rathurst-Sydney road race—one of the
stift'est bike events held in Australia—is likely to be run,
after all, The N.S.W, League of Wheelmen is evidently
too poor to give the necessary prizes ; but cycle flints are
banding together to fix the matter.
* * * *
The N.S.W. League of Wheelmen is in eruption.
Finding that the League Council was not making any
effort to provide road-racing for the winter, the riders,
took a huge brick in one hand and a petition in the other
and called in, They threw the latter article at the
Council. It demanded a lot of things, and also explained
that the Council must crawl out of the concern, or the
former article Would be thrown also. The effect Was
electrical, Secretary Cramp left the League, and the
Council is being rebuilt, The result of the kick-up is
that the new Council has drawn up a long programme of
road events, and the League is alive once more,
* * * *
The frantic habit of pushing large lumps of
mineral Into the atmosphere has fairly bitten Melbourne
wrestler, Clarence Weber. Nowadays, that comely
athlete lifts a mass of.metal of abundant weight, manu-
factures a record, and then gets busy again trying
to fracture the same. He has already elevated
1901 b. in a two-handed shove from chest to arms’
length above his head; and, the other da}', sur-
passed that by influencing 200Jlb. into a similar position.
That constitutes a fresh Australian record, and now
Clarence will probably break his neck or something.
» * * »
No news is good news, and if either Johnson or
Jeffries has killed the other with his mouth no word of
the sad occurrence has reached this office.
* « * •
“S. Snell” : I see that welter Ted Nelson has
sailed for Bull’s Run-in the hope of picking up something
in the English ring. It is not likely they have anything
in the Cold Country at Ted’s weight that can show him
any points in the game, but Edward is a little too subse-
quent in leaving for fresh fields. At his best, there was
never in Australia anv man of equal poundage who could
teach Nelson the subtleties of ring-craft. For a lean slip
of a human he had a stunning punch ; he could duck like
a diver ; and his foot-work was mechanical perfection.
But Ted has been accused of thirst for years, and of late
he has gone down with a series of dull, sickening thuds.
He skips for distant ills after a sad succession of defeats,
and when he has demonstrated that he has attained the
pug’s age of descent. He is a hard man to fit in the
matter of weight, too, and will probably be called upon to
meet lads of considerably greater substance, in which
case, unless the English middleweight is a lout, Ted s
trip should result in small profits and quick returns.


THE
TONE
of
THE
FEURICH.
The chaste lines of the FEURICH Piano, its
perfect architectural beauty, naturally attracts the
purchaser, for at the first glance it shows in-
dividuality. It shows study, care and originality;
but let us go further.
It is not outward beauty alone which has won
for the FEURICH Piano thousands of admirers
in every section of the country, but it has been
the SOUL of the FEURICH —the TONE OF
THE FEURICH PIANO.
It has been that TONE of great purity, sweet-
ness in volume, capable of expressing the varying
moods of the human mind —that action of remarkable
elasticity and durability which have been great con-
tributory factors in making the FEURICH stand out
clearly and distinctly in the Piano world.
The FEURICH is a Piano that meets every
demand of the most critical musician, professional
or amateur.
SOLE AGENTS
for these well-known and popular Pianos
NICHOLSON & Co. Ltd
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“SLOW AND SURE !
wins the race so some out-of-date person said. But
“quick and sure” does the trick NOWADAYS.
The B. and B. Mode / 3 Cycle
works like that. A sturdy, grandly-built machine, fitted
with first-class tyres, and guaranteed a year.
MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
PRICE - - £ll.
New Catalogue Free.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle-building- 234 Pitt Street and 130-132
House in the State, Castlereag-h Street, Sydney.
ANY to.
ovl 0 vl
THE
SLIDING
STOKE
From Point to heel
Or Heelto Point
Potfcrible
Only
With. the
ENDS AIL TROUBLES OF SHAVING
mark
®^i|M|?AZQR
GET A CURLEY SAFcfY RAZOR. Cannot Cut Your-
self ! Price 15/- each. Extra Blade, 3/6. Post Free.
Denyer 8r05.,28l George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
EXTREMELY POWERFUL
Remarkable Value
This Splendid
OPERA
GLASS
Only 7/6
FOR a limited time only we offer to send this
HANDSOME GLAJ-S postage paid
to any address for only 7/6. As you could
not buy it anywhere else under 15/-, you can
see that this is a great bargain. It is aGI ass of
the Highest Grade, Finest Lenses, and of un-
usually high magnifying power. The body is
of White Celluloid (not enamel), which is a
great improvement, as not only does it reduce
the weight of the Glass by one-half, hut it is
always nice and clean, and does not show the
finger marks. Can also he used as a Field Glass ;
We guarantee every Glass, and if not in every
respect satisfactory after a week’s trial, you
may return it and have your money refunded
in full. If you want a tip-top Opera Glass at a
low price, how’s your chance. Only 76, post
free anywhere, complete in Plush Satchel. The
same Glass, in larger size, 10/=, post free.
Catalogues of Opera and Field Glasses, Tele*
scopes and other Optical Goods free.
A. J. SMITH & CO.,
14 Hunter St.
SYDNEY<4«
vv Points
iSr. inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing- your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases,
a careful consideration of their plans, an honest opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
“Rialto,” Collins Street, Melbourne.
IT IS A PLEASURE TO WRITE WITH
The Complete Writing Outfit
INKSTAND, PEN AND PENCIL CASE,
PENCIL AND ERASER.
TABLETS FOR MAKING A
Pint of Best Bnk
VALUABLE LOT OF
REMARKABLE PENS
The Shading Pen,
The Reservoir Pen,
The Changing Pen,
The Braham Foun-
tain Pen and the
Fountainette.
A Great Bar-
gain—
The Lot
FOR
Onfy 3/-
Only 3/-
We pay carriage.
"T'HE Inkstand is of burnished metal with glass well, very
and of good appearance. Tilh Pen ana Pencil Case is
British made and a reallv handsome article. The Pencil has
the best quality Eraser. ’The Ink Tablets have merely to be
dissolved—a little at a time—in water to produce a pint of ex-
cellent Ink, either black or bright red, as desired. A fine
assortment of wonderful Pens are given with the
■outfit. The Shading Pen writes a thick and a thin stroke at
the same time, and it produces most remarkable effects. The
Top-Feed Reservoir Pen will write 200 words with one dip.
The Changing Pen can be altered in a moment from hard to
uoft. or to any intermediate degree. The Brahara Fountain
Pen has another style of reservoir, and it will write hundreds
of words with one supply of ink. The Fountainette is a clever
attachment that converts any ordinary nib into an effective
fountain pen. These items purchased separately would cost
fully double the uriee mentioned. They are a great
bargain at Three Shillings for the Lot. carefully packed
and sent carriage paid' to any address in the world. No other
firm can supply these goods at an\ f price.
THE UNION COMPANY,
299 ELIZABETH STREET
MELBOURNE.
A. M. L. S F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Blig'h Street, SYDNEY.
“G-. 5.” writes :
The inclusion of Agar Wynne, of Victoria, in the list of
members who will probably be ousted by Labor is a mis-
take. Judging- by the result of the last election, Wynne
held, prior to the Fusion, one of the safest seats in the
House. What effect the Fusion may have on Balaclava
electorate there are no guiding lines to indicate. At the
last election there were four candidates in the field, and
Wynne easily distanced the lot. This position he no doubt
owed to the straightforward and determined way in which
he denounced and defied the Oats’ Association, headed
by Mrs. Janet Clarke. The Cats invited Wynne
to come under their banner, and to endorse their pro-
gramme, which included a clause embodying the lie that
the Labor party aimed at bursting up the marriage tie,
etc. Wynne indignantly refused, and told them that the
statement which they circulated about Labor was a
malicious libel, or words to that effect. Wynne, conse-
quently, had to brave the fury of the Cats, whose candi-
date was second on the poll. Third on the poll came a
Protectionist Liberal, and lastly the Labor candidate, who
was perilously near losing his deposit. Labor didn’t
poll its full strength. Realising that its own can-
didate had no show, and also that the Cats’ candidate
must be kept out, it supported Wynne largely.
Of course, it is most desirable that in a constituency which
has been so imperfectly tested a straight-out contest
between Labor and its opponents should take place. This
much, however, ought to be said, that if the Labor
men had to decide which of their opponents they would
prefer to see in Parliament, Agar Wynne’s name would
stand high on the list.
Harry M. Clark, veteran miner and
pioneer of the famous Long Tunnel mine (Vie.),
signed off recently, aged 74. He came to Victoria
in the “early days,” and went with some mates
to Stringer’s Creek. The party pegged out blocks
.!) and 10—the first claims acquired by the Long
Tunnel Co. —and sold out for a mere song, after a
year or so’s working. The late W. Pearson, of
Kilmeny Park, and G. B. and .T. B. Firebrace
bought one block for £5OO ; and W. Gardiner and
W. Cunningham got the other at the same figure.
The Adelaide Municipal Tramway Trust
has made the city fume by passing a sensible bylaw,
providing a fine of £2 for passengers who imperil
other people’s eyes by carrying their walking-sticks
and umbrellas carelessly while in the cars.
Another bylaw gives conductors power to eject
passengers who, “in their opinion,” are intoxi-
cated ; and there will be a fine chance for ructions
over that. Every passenger, whether he has
erred against a bylaw or not, is compelled, under
a penalty of £5, to give his full name and address
whenever the conductor asks for them; and the
city which hitherto has practically had no tram-
way regulations at all, is using frightful language
about that new rule also.
Historical
Bicycle."
m
Vf
M hei
W tyre<
f This
WE ILLUSTRATE
herewith the first Pneumatic-
tyred Safety Bicycle ever made,
machine was manufactured
in 1888 by Mr. R. Edlin,of Belfast, Ireland,
and shod with
:ic-
ade.
:tured l
DUNLOP TYRtS
Which proved the forerunner of a tremendous
revolution in Cycling:.
SINCE 1888 these world-famed Tyres have
held undisputed sway, their fine wearing
qualities easily making them “first
favourite with Cyclists" the world over.
Ik
TO-DAY they stand unequalled
WEAR, RELIABILITY and
SPEED.
Guaranteed 12 Months.
Beware of Imitations.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All State, .ad N.Z.


NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE
California Syrup of Figs restores strength to
the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
stimulates the action of the Liver and Kidneys
when the inactivity of those organs indicates a
constipated condition. The valuable tonic action
of California Syrup of Figs gradually over-
comes the tendency to Habitual Constipation.
minimum:
18l
%
iiiiwS
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative, pleasant to
the taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in results.
The most agreeable family remedy for con-
stipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion,
depression, feverishness, loss of appetite,
headache, and all kindred complaints ;
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and
good spirits. Of Chemists, in two sizes.
AGREEABLE, MILO ANO SURF
You have a guarantee
of quality and durability
if you purchase
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS, LONG CLOTHS,
FLANNELETTES, CAMBRICS, Etc.
Sold by all Drapers and Storekeepers.
Be sure the name “ HORROCKSES ” is on Selvedge G.&G.150
Get Prepared fa ti* Winter.
Have Better Light with a Reduced
Carbide Bill by using our Burners.
We have about 30 different designs
to select from.
Send for Illustrated Price List.
Sample Dozen of Assorted Makes, post free 10/-
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
Haw Res & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
9
290 & 292 Bourke Street,
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
Georg'e Street, Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Directo
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
CAPILLARINE
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
&
WE GUARANTEE A MOUSTACHE !
to ANYONE—no matter how little “ down ”is on your upper lip, or
how you have failed in the past to grow a nioustache.
Try CAPILLARINE.
Start using' it NOW. A _ little
rubbed in each night will do
wonders; the result will surprise and please you. It has never failed
for 25 years to do all we say.
Price, 10/6, Post Free, in Plain Wrapper.
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George St*, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
[Mention Tiib Bum,ram]
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
: iS
TO
H.WI. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, c.tc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the ar P e S-
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Income for 1908 15 per
cent. increase on figures
for 1907.
47 per cent, of Total
Funds invested in Govern-
ment Securities.
Directors :
R. M. PHILLIPS, Esq., J.P.,
VICTOR E. LUDLOW, L.R.C.5.1.,
L.K.Q.C.P.1.,
CLAUDE MANNING, Esq.,
DAVID W. WATKINS, Esq.
General Manager :
J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary:
FREEMAN J. EATON.
Principal Offices :
VICTORIA 148 Queen Street, Melbourne; NEW SOUTH WALES—3O Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; QUEENSLAND— Metropolitan Buildings, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Britannia Needs.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Britannia needs no bulwarks no towers along
the steep ”
’Tis true— no iron walls to-day may guard her
subject deep;
Above her armored navy may fall a deadly rain
What time her Dreadnoughts turn and flee be-
neath the aeroplane.
Britannia needs to recollect —she stands no more
an isle;
The Channel cuts her off no more from hostile pro-
jectile ;
The thunders from her native oak may sleep about
the shore,
For native oak and native steel are bulwarks now
no more.
What ’vails it now to boast herself the Mistress
of the sea,
For future wars will fiercely wage where fighting
eagles lie?
And Death shall tumble silently upon the careless
foe
From decks in air to where he laughs ten thousand
feet below.
A few short years and where will be the armored
galleon’s pride?
A fleet in air will rule the deep and frontiers
override;
Some fierce aerial Nelson with a navy in the
cloud
Shall build a peerless empire for a nation free
and proud;
The trident of Britannia —as a sign of empery
Will stand a rotting symbol by a wide pacific sea ;
Above, the Heav’ns shall riven be by many a flash
and flare
What time the nations battle for Dominion in the
Air ;
And far beneath will navies rust, nor ride the
ocean more,
Nor vex the Triton in his bed with thund rousdin
and roar,
And he whose airships sweep along with loud
triumphant blare
Shall rule as Monarch o’er the Earth as Master of
the Air.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
Let us Think in Continents.
“ Kodak ” writes :
If Zeppelin—-who lately accomplished & 900-mile flight
in 38 hours—could be persuaded to bring- his airship to
Australia, the Commonwealth Government might charter
it and send batches of politicians swooping over the con-
tinent so that they might see for themselves how many
blank spaces we will have to fill up before the place is
even reasonably safe from invasion. If the great air liner
was not driven too fast and too high, and the estate
boundaries were carefully pointed out, the sinfully im-
mense area occupied by squatters might impress the
M’s.P. as no amount of earth travelling could ever do.
Also the awful barrenness of the proposed capital site
would be revealed as the scornful eagle sees it. When
the machine arrived over North Queensland, where it is
alleged that the white man can’t work, the white man
could be observed cheerfully working and growing6ft. tall
and many feet round the chest whilst so doing. After
that sight had been allowed to soak into the elevated
politician, the flier could be headed for the lonely spot m
South Australia where the railway that should run right
across the continent leaves off. The airship could then
whir slowly northward until the blue waters of Torres
Straits laughed under it, and Hang Fat and Ah Too Soon
and Ram Chunder, and other usurpers of the Empty
Province danced distractedly with helpless terror.
After that, the route would be down the north-
west coast, and across the goldfields to the Perth corner
of the continent. From there, the proposed route of the
necessary Perth-Adelaide transcontinental line could be
followed'. The main business, after leaving Adelaide,
would be the delivery of a lecture on the locked-up lands
of the Victorian Western District squatter-barons. When
the airship finally came to rest at its moor-
ings at Federal Parliament House, it would be
a "case for the fool-killer, if, instead of mere
politicians, there did not alight from it a party of new-
made patriots filled with a desire to live up to their
opportunities as managers of one of the earth’s conti-
nents. Continents are scarce things. So far as this
earth is concerned, the business of continent-finding is
extinct, and even if the show lasts l ill the blinking stars
fall asleep altogether and drop into darkness, the evening
papers will never be able to raise a sensation over the
discovery of another Australia. We have hitherto not
made the most of our chances, principally because we
have not realised them. So to speak, we have not been
able to detach ourselves mentally from the earth and
take a bird’s-eye view of our inheritance, its possibili-
ties and needs. The reliable airship makes it pos-
sible for us to actually ascend with a book of
s atisfies, a fountain pen, note-book, camera, whisky
and all necessary nourishment and comforts.’ Seeing
that the Dreadnought Fund isn’t likely to stretch out
sufficiently to cover the cost of a battleship, and that
it is already long enough for the price of a Zeppelin,
what’s wrong with getting a flier? From a newspaper
point of view, an airship voyage should be worth many
times the space value of a journev in a sea-ship that can
only wander idly through charted waters, and patrol the
coasts that the old three-decker knew as well as it did
the Thames. There are great possibilities in the airship
idea even in old, well-known, history-crammed countrips.
With a brand-new continent under it, and the business
of a nation waiting, the chances are enough to make the
dullest and heaviest imagination thrill with delight.
The head of the Sydney Technical College has
compiled a hook to commemorate the completion
of the first 25 years of the college’s history ; and
the S. M. Herald, while lauding the tremendous
importance of the school, grieves that it doesn’t
get more support. The very best way to support
technical education is to provide the technically-
educated with billets ; yet, whenever a good
Australian post has called for a man,
the Herald has been wildly enthusiastic
in crying out for an imported person. The
results have in some cases been remarkable.
One of the latest importations was an electrical
engineer for Sydney’s lighting plant. Now he
has been asking for an assistant, who, he insists,
must be imported like himself, because there is
really no one competent in Australia. If it is
really so bad as that, why on earth did Sydney
University, a few years ago, import a special
teacher of electrical engineering at great expense?
It was hardly worth while if he cannot turn out
anyone fit to be the assistant of an imported chief.
Still, the engineer may be right—there may not
be the man in Australia. And it isn’t likely that
there ever will be if the Australian graduate has
to clear out from Australia in order to get any-
thing more than an “ improver’s ” billet.
♦
“ Billy T.” : I have had some personal experi-
ence of one of Yic.’s “ small holding” settlements
—Highton, near Geelong. It represents Bent’s
most despicable mistake, and the State Govern-
ment has broken faith with the poor devils whom
it lured on to the land, and has shown a shameful
disregard for decency and fair dealing. The
agreement provided for monetary assistance to
the settlers at the rate of £1 a week for the first
six months, and 10s. a week for the second six
months. That supply was summarily cut off, and
the men, most of them encumbered with families
and grievous inexperience, were left to tear
along as best they could on land that
needs careful nursing and expert handling to
produce anything of value. So miserable is
the condition of some of the families that
public subscriptions have been necessary to save
a few from absolute starvation. The original idea
was that the new settlers should work half time
on the land, and be available for jobs during the
other half ; but Geelong is a dull, tardy centre,
and jobs are few and far to seek. Moreover, when
a settler does get a job, the manager of the settle-
ment, acting under pressure from John Govern
ment, swoops on his earnings, and commandeer!*
them for rent. Highton is doomed to ignominious*
failure as a settlement, but it may become a pros
perous burying place. If Bent ever venture:*
within a mile of it he will certainly give the
cemetery a start.
♦
Bishop Green, of Ballarat, thinks we
should devote ourselves to Christianising China
as a means of defence :
The time was coming when China would take her
destiny into her own hands. He could not conceive of
anything more terrible and full of threatening to the
civilisation of the world than the rise to power of such a
people, unless they had been first Christianised.
Evidently Mr. Green thinks it is easier to Chris-
tianise China than to defend Australia, which is
an error of colossal dimensions, almost as tremend-
ous a mistake as the notion that Christianised
nations are all peaceful and full of brotherly love-
like Germany and England.


BEALE GRAND PRIX PIANOS.
No less than FOUR separate juries, and the Grand Jury,
carefully examined and tested the Beale Pianos at the
Franco-British Exhibition in making the awards of
Grand Prix, Diploma of Honor and Two Gold Medals.
The Grand Prix was awarded to us for the tonal qualities
and general excellence of our pianos, in company with
Messrs. Pleyel, Wolff & Co., of Paris, and the leading
London firm of piano-makers. The Diploma of Honor was
unanimously awarded us for the perfection of the iron and
steel work in our pianos. In this section we were .classed
with the great engineering firms which construct warships
and heavy guns for the British Navy. One Gold Medal
was adjudged us for the excellence of the cabinet-work as
such, considered quite apart from pianos. Another Gold
Medal was secured by us for factory organisation and the
variety of trades carried out in our workshops in connection
with the manufacture of pianos. Lastly, we obtained a
medal for excellence in bronze and other castings—handles,
candelabra, etc. Every possible point in connection with
pianos is thus covered in these awards, and in each case the
judges were aided by French and English experts in their
particular trades.
NEW MODELS of Beale Pianos, containing all our patents and
every modern improvement, are now on view at our Showrooms.
BEALE
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide;
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
price of the best imported instruments.


OPEN
FACE,
12/6.
N
m
UK
HIGHER
GRADE
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face lieylesa
WATCHES, Splendid Timekeepers,
Extra Strong Short-wind movement,
13/«.
Higher Grade, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire, 1 ()/(»■
icyqg
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3-
All Diamonds, £5.
SHOP BY MAIL
“CITY PRICES” straight to you in your own home without the expense of a
trip to the city. Our Up to-date MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT can supply
you as easily and advantageously as if you were a resident of Sydney.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE.
Write to-day for a copy or our 304-page
Illustrated Catalogue. It will help you in
making your Xmas selection. Sent Post Free
to any address.
SHOPPING BY POST.
No matter where you live, you can rely on
our up-to-date Mail Order Dept, to serve you
promptly and satisfactorily. All goods sent
carriage free to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Isct. Gold Shamrock Leaf
BROOCH, set with fine
White Pearls and Sap-
phire or Turquoise,
£4/10/-.
Pearls and Dia-
monds, £B/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Dog and
Kennel CHARM,
7/6.
9ct. .Gold, set Pearls
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, 12/0-
15ct. Gold, 20/,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCHBOX, Richly Hand
Engraved, 0/6-
Larger, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
Smaller, 4/6, 5/6.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with Extra
Strong Safety Chain, £2/115/--
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/, £3/10/.
Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 70/, according to size.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot,
£‘2-
mflutiA
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Southern Cross” BROOCH,
Set Red, Blue, and Green Stones,
12/<>
Without Maj> of Australia, 12/6.
15ct Gold, set with Tourmalines, £2.
ALL GOODS SENT POST
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Ribbon Circle
BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Turquoise,
£2/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mouse
and Candlestick
CHARM, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOVEREIGN PURSE, Silver-filled, to hold
5 Sovereigns, 5/6-
Solid Silver, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Gold-filled, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
In 9ct. Gold, £2/7/6; loct. Gold, £3/15/.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Bal-
ance, 25/-.
Higher Grade, 30/, 35/, 40/,
50/. Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/,
£4, £4/10/, £5/10/. Guaran-
teed 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
PENDANT,
set Bloodstone
and Sardonyx,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold, set Pure
Double Cut Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£lO-
- Centre,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
get. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, 25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pearl,
Ruby, and Sapphire, 212/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Slipper
Lace Pin, 4/(5-
Larger, 5/6, 7/6.
In Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver Enamel BRACELET, in Dark Red, Pale Blue,
and Dark Green Enamel, 7/6-
Smaller, 6/6. Larger, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, Real Amber Stem, Solid
Silver Mounts and Screw, Straight or Bent
Stem,
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
i ■
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Goid Thistle
CHARM, Ame-
thyst Thistles.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT and NECK-
LET, set fine Pearls and Ame-
thysts, £4-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Rustic Bar and Heart
BROOCH, 5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set fine Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire, with Extra Strong Safety Chain attached,
£2.
A .SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot, £2-
MI
PQRG'fcT
mSkm
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” CHARM,
10/
Smaller, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s POCKET-BOOK, Morocco Leather,
nicely fitted Pure Silver Mounts and Lock,
„ 10/6
Other styles, 3/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe and Whip
SCARF PIN, 7/6.
Larger, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather,
nicely finished, 5/(>-
In Seal Leather, 6/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/3, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 22/6, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Horse-
shoe CHARM,
set Ruby or Sap-
phire, S/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
let. Gold Heart and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12/6-
15ct. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Scroll BROOCH, Pearl-set Bird
and Sprays, 20/-.
A. fcUoxNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet
RING, 20/--
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
] t. Gold EAR-
RINGS, set with
Rubies and Aus-
tralian Sapphires,
£3/10/-.
For pierced or un-
pierced ears.
A. SENDERS.
9ct. Gold “Good Wishes” Bar and
Heart BROOCH, 10/6-
15ct. Gold, 25/.
/
N
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
Engine-turned Cases, f-Plate Lever movement, fully
jewelled, Patent Adjusted Balance, £2-.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6. In Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l3,
£2O, to £5O. Guaranteed 2,3, 4, 5 and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pure
Double Cut Diamond, £2-
Larger Diamond, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
oct. Gold Hand-Clasp
RING, 25/-.
15ct. Gold, £2.
18ct, Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EAR-
RING 1, set with
Tourmalines, ££s.
For pierced or
unpierced ears.
Other Styles, 12/6,
15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Chain PURSE, Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts, White Metal
Chain, 8/6-
Other styles, with Silver Chains,
10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 21/, 22/6, 25/,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct.
Gold Oval and Bar
LINKS, 17/6-
15ct. Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Enve-
lope CHARM,
12/6
Any name en-
graved free.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 Qeorge-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W,


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
m
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get oat of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
YENS
'' ’ '/y
.■><■ ••
m
tiIZM '
: ; s " J** '' '••
m.
Our Firearms have been used and endorsed by hunters and marksmen the
world over for almost half a century. This indicates the degree of accuracy and
reliability embodied in the “STEVENS.”
Our arms bear both a national and an international reputation, and, for their
various purposes, are positively unexcelled. We manufacture a complete line of
RIFLES, PISTOLS, SHOTGUNS, ACCESSORIES.
Ask your dealer. Send for latest catalogue.
Insist on STEVENS.
J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL CO.
Chicopee Fails, Mass.
, 54F Broadway,
, U.S.A. f<
SMOKE
REFEREE tobacco
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
Q
li
0
P 5
1
A
A
X 33
C*
u
s=>
rS
V
FROM
M 1.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING BOOM TABLE
FROM
a.n.5.
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Alcocr&C°, 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monakch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
397 George Street.
Will OUTLAST ALL Others.
The first cost to you of nearly all
fountain pens is about the same.
Start off with
m 3
WAN
however, which will give the best
value. You select the nib and fill
t-
the pen occasionally with “ Swan ”
Ink (a simple matter), and it will soon
make manifest the time and trouble
It saves and the comfort it gives.
Sold by ALL HIGH-CLASS STATIONERS
Our Illustrated Booklet tells about the “ SWAN”
—write for it to-day—post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., Manufacturers, London and Branches.
Australian Representative—
JAS. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE “ NEVER-STOP ” HUMMING TOP.
This new metal hum-
ming- top is of original
design, graceful in
outline, and., hand-
somely painted in five
enamelled colors, and
measures 10 inches in
circumference. There
is nothing in the top
line that can approach
it. The top, being
metal and the spring
of tempered steel, is
practically indestruc-
tible. Spirts about
three minutes, hum-
ming all the time.
Price 9d. each post
free anywhere, o r
three tops posted free
to any address for 2/-
Hi
pin a
TOP.
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES.
A Puzzle Pocker.
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring-
back. Puzzle to shut
as well as to open. Makes a splendid knife for general
use, also a superior rabbiter’s knife. Price, with full
directions. 2/2, post free anywhere.
©J6e
U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
S'
B
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watchmen, and
others. Oa n b e
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue—
New Edition just published
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
NO.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. t Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
2 Branch ; 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from "The
Bulletin ** Office
You can't tell a
whisky by its looks.
You can by the look
of its label.
When the Label reads
John WalKer <S Sons,
that’s “Johnnie Walker,”
the Whisky with the
LITTLE LABEL
and the
BIG REPUTATION.
- ...j
These Labels are your
protection against im°
mature whisky.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good whisky is sold.
o
Born 1820.
'Still going
strong.


TERMS ARRANGED.
Do you want a Good Business in Melbourne,
Suburbs or Country from £2O to £5OOO ?
We arrange Terms to suit you.
Country Storekeepers and Shopkeepers should send
us particulars when wanting' to sell. Numerous
clients always on the look out for good businesses.
WRIGHT & SWIFT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
r LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Ooug-hs and Colds.
King’s Norton
Cartridges
It’s not for Miniature Rifle Range
shooting alone that “King’s Norton”
cartridges excel. The hollow pointed
bullet is a splendid sporting cartridge.
Sold by all Ammunition Stores
Agents
THE OOLONIAL AMMUNITION 00.
O • Q.
L 35/
MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
ftr/f/sh Made.
“ PLftSMON is the
BEST part of Nature’s
BEST food MILK,
and increases the food
value enormously”
— Lancet.
DELICIOUS
zMb
COCOA.
TENFOLD NUTRIMENT
PLASMON is USED
by the
ROYAL FAMILY.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
. this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
_ Influenza, Whooping-
' Cough, Hoarseness, &c.
£ungTonfc
1
1
The enormous Success of Owbridge's
I'Ung Tonic could not have been wotig
and continue to increase after
30 TZARS, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the mo3t efficacious
. remedy ever known. Beware of Sub ■
k stitutes ; ask for “ OWBRIDGE 1 ’
when buying Lung Tonic and
TAKE NJ OTHER.
Sold everywhere
In bottles at Is. ljd
:s iM ,4s 6d., &llt
I
COPYRIGHT.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing On*
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street. Sydney.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Cclds.
>f proven efficacy for chest complaints.
THE "RINGERS -
of the shearing sheds are unanimous on the point that they make the
highest tallies when using “ Wolseley” Shears.
Given the “Wolseley” they know they can keep up their averages,
provided the engine power used is reliable and continuous.
The most dependable driving power on the market to-day is
without doubt the “1.H.C.” Gasolene Engine.
X More than 100,000 users have found that it not
y)nly starts inside 30 seconds, but invariably runs
Lcontinuously and smoothly all day and every
day if required, without the slightest attention
other than an oiling once in about 4 hours.
Rock Bottom Prices are now on offer for
Complete Shearing Outfits—an “LH C.” Engine
and “Wolseley ” Shears,
a 2-HP. “1.H.C.” Engine and 3 stands of
rinder and all necessary extras.
on the Exceptionally Easy Terms of One
2 and 24 months.
Proportionately Low Prices
and Easy Terms for larger
outfits.
irther particulars and sped-
extxa&sup-..
H.
92-10-0
ys
hears,
eley'
WO
eacn
the
procures
Cash o
Deli
Thin
Ph
i p° s(
tained in our
amphlet.
Sen
ow.
International
Company of Americc
( Incorporated)
200 Roma Street,
Brisbane.
37 Broadway , Sydney{
%nt
N,
'V
Sim-
A
M 3
x
■y
///
f
/
sWr&rslr>
%
(272)
i
)
A
/
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS I . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do tout little mo.’e than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
things he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no WeaKness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney- Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
d«. McLaughlin s electric belt
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It works wHile you sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as £1 in many cases.
If you. want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
7 youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CATjL for Free Consultation. Hours—9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAH
FREE BOOK.
The McLaughlin co. f
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES-IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. Packet of Ten, 5d


K U G
L
A N N’S
Pure Herbal Skin Soap.
/
Imnnrtfint Analvcpc F. H. MOLESWORTH, F.C.S., F.Q.S., Mem. Soc. Chem. Ind. London; Public Analyst and Assayer;
UIIIL Late Lecturer in Chemistry S.A. Government and Technical College, Sydney. _ .
Central Analytical and Assay Office, Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, 21st September, 1908.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., 199 Clarence Street, Sydney. Gentlemen, —I have made a careful analysis of a sample of “Kugeimann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap,” which I find to be composea
vegetable oils and fats, saponified with pure alkali. It contains no free alkali, nor any substance deleterious to the most delicate skin. The perfume and color are both of natural and harmless plant orig ,
neither having any trace of animal or poisonous materials. Having powerful but non=poisonous antiseptics thoroughly incorporated in the process of manufacture, this soap possesses healing properiie
which will remove diseases of the skin and restore it to a healthy condition. It is a beautifully finished article, comparing favorably with similar imported soaps, and if used regularly as an adjunct ot tne
toilet, it will assist in keeping the body in health, and will have a pleasing, soothing effect on the skin. “Kugeimann’s Herbal Skin Soap” will NOT promote the growth of hair upon the lace, or
anywhere else upon the human body where hair does not grow naturally. Yours faithfully, F. H. MOLESWORTH, F.C.S., F.G.S., M.S.C.I. London, Public Analyst and Assayer.
Chemical and Assay Laboratory, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney, 7th July, 1908.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Sydney. Gentlemen,—We have analysed a sample of “Kugeimann’s Herbal Skin Soap,” and find it to be a well manufactured article, containing no free alkali, or
any injurious substance. It is made from pure vegetable oils, and contains a non=polsonous but powerful antiseptic. This soap has nothing in it that can possibly injure the skin, it has strong curative
properties, and will be also suitable as a dentifrice. There is nothing in “ Kugeimann’s Herbal Skin Soap ” to injure the hair in any way, or to cause hair to grow on the face or on any part of tne nody
where hair does not normally grow. Yours faithfully, DIXON & BYRN, F.1.C., F.C.S., Analylsts under the Public Health Act, and Assayers.
Analytical Laboratory, Lincoln Inn Chambers, 38 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, 16/4/ 09.
Messrs. H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., 199 Clarence Street, Sydney. Gentlemen, —I have made an analysis of a sample of “Kugeimann’s Herbal Skin Soap,” with the result that I find no excess of
moisture, and it does not contain any free alkali, or any injurious substance. It has in my opinion been prepared from carefully selected and pure ingredients. The soap does not contain any substance
which can possibly injure the skin, and it is suitable for use as a dentifrice ; It has a very delicate and fragrant aroma, and contains a non»poisonous antiseptic. It should, therefore, prove eminently
useful for toilet and curative purposes. Yours faithfully, (Signed) JAMES MAYNE, Public Analyst under Health Act; Late Analyst City Council, Sydney; Late Examiner in Chemistry, Pharmacy Board.
.
mr
1
“ Baby ” Watson gws to the bath every morning with
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin Soap.
ACME OF PERFECTION.
AS a SKIN FOOD, SHAVING SOAP and
TOILET PREPARATION, KUGEL-
MANN’S PURE HERBAL SKIN
SOAP is fast achieving a position before
all others as the Soap for special treatment for the
complexion and skin, as well as for medical,
hygienic, shaving and general toilet purposes.
The main reason for this unique assumption of
public favor is that KUGELMANN’S HERBAL
SKIN SOAP is not merely an article of ordinary
commercial manufacture, but is carefully pre-
pared under the direction and from the prescrip-
tion of Australia’s Leading Consulting Herbal
Practitioner, so as to really constitute a part of
his treatment. In short, two great principles
form the solid base of this Herbal Soap :
1. That ABSOLUTE PURITY is essential in
any article of constant application to that delicate,
vital organ, the Skin.
2. That soap affords one of the readiest mediums
for the medical treatment of the human body.
The HERBAL SKIN SOAP in its present
form represents the fruit of nearly forty years’
experience in the use and prescription of beneficent
herbs for the cure of Australian maladies, and,
therefore, is better adapted to the climatic and
other conditions of Australian life than any
imported soap.
For the Prevention of Redness and Skin Irrita-
tion of all kinds, the cure of Eczema, Tetter,
Ringworm, Shingles, Blotches, Pimples and
Freckles ; the prevention and cure of Dandruff,
fostering a stimulating effect upon the growth of
the Hair, stopping falling-out, inducing growth,
and making it soft and glossy. Asa dentifrice, it
arrests decay and produces a dazzling brilliance.
For Shaving, is of Unique Benefit, owing to its
production of a rich, lasting and creamy lather, and
the exercise of soothing and hygienic functions
upon the skin.
In the nursery its beneficent effects upon the
tender skin of infancy obviates the use of powder,
etc., the child’s skin being always kept cool and
smooth by its use.
“ Beauty’s Aid” is the well-earned title of this
Herbal Skin Soap, because, in a healthy and per-
manent manner, it enhances natural beauties as
no mere nostrum can ever hope to do. In every
department of the toilet, and for every medicinal
or hygienic purpose for which soap can be used,
this soap has proved superior to any other soap.
The Greatness of the Herbal Skin Soap is the
greatness of Nature. It is a rare combination of
natural organic remedies culled from the grand
and simple provision of Mother Earth, whose
vegetable kingdom contains in abundance the only
medicines suited for assimilation by mankind.
The great appreciation of Kugelmann’s pure
Herbal Skin Soap is indicated by the following
selection of testimonials, which are portion of those
we are daily receiving from every part of Australia:
THE BEST SOAP.
Oakey Park, Lithgow, New South Wales.
Messrs. H. E. Kugklmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —Your Herbai Skin Soap is an excellent
soap for the toilet, for the skin, and also for shaving ; in
fact, it is the best soap I have ever used. (Signed) J. Stahl.
Alison Street, Mayne, Queensland.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I have not used any other soap but your
Herbal Skin Soap for a long time, and I can recommend it
as the best that I have ever used. (Signed) Mrs. S. A.
Hove.
Stansbury, South Australia.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —I want never to be without your Herbal
Skin Soap, as, on account of its many virtues, I have
grown absolutely fond of it. I have brought it under the
notice of many of my friends, and they all say it is the
best they have known. (Signed) Miss Emily Modra.
Dunellan Street, Dunellan Estate, South Brisbane.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in testifying to the
admirable qualities of your Herbal Skin Soap.—(Signed)
K. O. Beames.
19 Hunter Street, Sydney, 24th April, 1909.
To Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Please accept my congratulations upon the
success to which you have attained with your Australian
manufactured Herbal Skin Soap, which I have personally
found to be “ the best ” for shaving.—Yours sincerely,
(Signed) A. R. Gregory.
C/o Mrs. Telford, Raymond Terrace,
South Brisbane, Queensland.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l can honestly say that I think a lot of
your Herbal Skin Soap. I never use any other, and shall
always use it. It is very refreshing, and has a beneficial
effect on the skin.—(Signed) John A. Reynolds.
“ Walteela,” Woodville, S.A.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —Your Herbal Skin Soap is undoubtedly a
boon for the toilet and bath. Besides being most delicate
and fragrant, it softens and invigorates the skin. As a
hair wash it is very good, cleansing the scalp and making
the hair glossy. lam strongly recommending it to my
friends.—(Signed) Stelle Crossland.
23 Linthorpe Street, Newtown, Sydney, 24th April, ’O9.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sirs, —To those accustomed to the ordinary medical
and toilet soaps, Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap
comes as a revelation. It cleanses the skin with remark-
able rapidity, and makes the hands and face feel delight-
fully smooth and fresh. —Faithfully yours, (Signed)
Mrs. C. Wolee.
Clayton Heights, Nambour, April 14th, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Co.,
Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dear Sirs, —My family and myself have used your
Herbal Skin Soap for the past three years, and I find it
superior to any other. I gave a box of it to a gentleman,
who used it for shaving, and said it was the best soap he
had ever used. All my visitors think there is no soap like
it.—(Signed) Mrs. R. H. Tones.
66 Ward Street, South Australia.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —I think your Herbal Skin Soap is the most
Beautiful soap I have ever used, and I have alvyays used
the “best” toilet soaps. The Herbal Skin Soap gives
you a clean, free feeling, and makes your skin nice and
soft. —(Signed) 0. A. Peirce.
UNSURPASSED FOR HAIR AND SKIN.
Queen Street, Newtown, Ipswich, Queensland.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann and Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —My opinion of your Herbal Skin Soap is
that it is very good indeed for all skin diseases, and also
for the toilet. It cools the skin and takes away any
inflammation of the skin. (Signed) W. T. Marshall.
Memerambi, via Kingaroy, Queensland.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l have been using your Herbal Skin Soap
for some considerable time, and I find it all you claim it
to be. It is very refreshing when used in the bath, and a
splendid cleanser of the scalp. It promotes the growth
of hair, which it makes beautifully soft and glossy ; in
fact, I have never used its equal. I feel sure that as the
Herbal Skin Soap becomes betterknown the demand for it
will be enormous.—(Signed) Maud C. Postle.
Alstonville, via Lismore, N.S.W.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I have used your Herbal Skin Soap, a,nd
find it unequalled by any other soap for cleansing the
skin, which it makes soft and smooth. It is also excellent
for the Hair and Scalp. I have found it unequalled for
shaving, and the purest also for massage purposes.—
(Signed) Stanby Noble.
91 Station Street, Newtown, Sydney.
Messrs. H. E. Kugelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I have used your Herbal Skin Soap for 12
years, so am entitled to speak with some authority upon
it. Among other excellencies it possesses an especial
virtue for strengthening the hair, preventing it falling
out, and making it soft and glossy. There is no Hair
Restorer to equal it. (Signed) E. C. Maiiony.
66 Lord Street, Newtown, Sydney, 25th April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I have found that Kugelmann’s Herbal
Skin Soap has a wonderful effect upon the hair. It cleans
it straight off, and brightens it until it is as glossy as
silk. And yet it has such a softening effect that you
could almost believe that your hair had been bathed in
the purest of olive oil. The hair retains its silkness and
brilliancy for some time after using Kugelmann’s Skin
Soap, and if it gets dull, well I just repeat the process.
The more you wash the hair with Kugelmann’s Soap the
stronger the hair gets, and the less brittle it becomes.
There is no hair* restorer equal to it.—Yours obediently.
(Signed) Mrs. M. Kalman.
50 Cavendish Street, Stanmore, Sydney.
23rd April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sirs, —Permit me to congratulate you upon the super-
excellence of your Herbal Skin Soap. There was a time
when I dreaded to wash my hair with soap, because it
used to split and crack, leaving frayed ends, but since
using Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap I have no such fear.
Your Soap makes my hair smooth and glossy, and stops
any tendency for it to break off and fall out. It certainly
strengthens my hair and makes it grow.—Faithfully
yours, (Signed) Olivia Brown.
“ Narellan,” Slaughter Street, Sandgate,
Queensland, 28th March, 1909.
Messrs.' H. E. Kuoelmann & Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Dear Sirs,—Ever since you brought your Herbal Skin
Soap under mother’s notice last August, she has been
using no other kind. As a Dentifrice and Shampoo for the
Hair it is simply unsurpassed. It has a most delightfully
soothing effect on the skin, and she says if the soap came
under the notice of the Beauty Specialists of England its
sale would be unprecedented. She never fails to recom-
mend it to her friends.—Yours truly, (Signed) E. French.
Digby Street, Kadina, S.A.
Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —I find your Herbal Skin Soap has a sooth-
ing and also healing effect on the skin. My sons, since
they have tried it, don’t want any other now for shaving
purposes. (Signed) Mrs. C. W. Harrison.
50 Loch Avenue, Ballarat, Vic.
Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —We all use your Herbal Skin Soap both foi
toilet and dental purposes, and find it easily surpasses all
other soaps of which we have had experience. (Signed)'
Nellie K. Aikins.
Gladstone Road, Mile End, S.A.
Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann & Company,
14-16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —I am delighted with your Herbal Skin
Soap, which is the best I have ever used. (Signed)
A. Rossi.
FOR SHAVING IT TAKES THE PLACE OF
ALL OTHER SOAPS.
Bridge & Mary Streets, Toowoomba, Queensland.
Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I can strongly recommend your Herbal
Skin Soap for Shaving and general Toilet purposes.—
(Signed) A. E. Wald.
194 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l have been shaving myself for about 30
years, but have never yet met with a soap so suitable for
that purpose as Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap. All
other soaps I find leave the skin more or less stiff and
rough. Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin Soap, on the other
hand, leaves the skin soft and smooth. If I cut myself,
and everyone will occasionally get a slight nick, my
practice is to put a little bit of Soap on the cut if it is
deep enough to bleed, and it stops bleeding and heals up
without a mark. Finally, the effect on the “bristles ” is
to make them more “shaveable” than any other soaps
can do. (Signed) R. B. Owler.
35 Prospect Street, Erskineville, Sydnev.
22nd April, 1909.
To Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann &Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I have used your soap for shaving for years,
and it suits me better than any other soap, whether
shaving soap or otherwise. I find every other soap in
course of time makes the skin rough, and often brings
out pimples. The effect of Kugelmann’s Herbal Skin
Soap is just the opposite, because it makes the skin
smooth and clears away any pimples.—Yours very truly,
(Signed) Norman E. Carpenter.
23 Victoria Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, 26th April, 1909.
Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann &, Co.,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sirs,—l have tried your soap for shaving purposes, and
find its lathering properties and its softening effects upon
the beard to excel those of any other soap. It also pre-
vents roughness of the skin and pimples, from which I
suffered while using other soaps. Now, after shaving,
my skin is always smooth and in good condition.—Faith-
fully yours, (Signed) A. Carter.
Dungay Creek, Tweed River, N.S. W,
Messrs. H. E. Kuoelmann & Company,
199 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I have found your Herbal Skin Soap to be
a wonderful shaving soap, as it entirely does away with
all roughness and soreness, leaving the skin in a smooth
and cool condition. It entirely banishes all mattery
pimples, etc., from face and body, and I consider it to be
Mother Nature’s own medicine for the skin. (Signed)
F. J. Franks.
Buy in Sydney from Lassetter’s, George Street; Sweet Bros., Newtown ; Mick Simmons; Marcus Clark & Co. ;
Winn & Co., Red fern ; W. Buckingham, Oxford Street; Washington Soul & Co., and all up-to-date Houses.
IF NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY, WILL BE POSTED BY THE PROPRIETORS ON RECEIPT OF POSTAL NOTE FOR 2/6.
Obtainable also at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers throughout Australasia in boxes of three tablets.
Free Sample sent
on receipt of
Twopenny Stamp.
SOLE
PROPRIETORS
H. E. KUGELMANN ®. CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., Melbourne; 199 Clarence St., Sydney; and at Adelaide and Brisbane.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON
CAPETOWN and NATAL
£l6 to £57
£l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
AND STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINK STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial Mutual tile
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without. Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3.000.000.
Policies Issued 111.627—Assuring £32.763,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hor.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
™®§Mk of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and-Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp &Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £405,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 72,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ’ =
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office : 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
fair interest,
easy terms.
fcs>
,<1
&
&
WE
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
TNT.S. 'W .
*•» i &K.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEItEAG-H Si'., 74, SYDMI
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collina-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon.’
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham & Co,,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET , SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc,
Shipping.
Nord D eutscher 5-^loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Ijani Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up i 2.000.000
Uncalled Capital ' £500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profiis £504.097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : lion. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ■
VV. 0. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Ksq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COOOWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Steamer. | Tons. | Commander. [ Leave Sydney.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
July 7.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 4.
AFItIC, SUEVIC, and PERSIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New "fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 'l4 10 0
Pamphlets, 'Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
Dalyety and Compant/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
> holi pay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
33y Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence bj r
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.**
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE. DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending- settlers on the land, a few of
* the important features being: ’
(а) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(б) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
(e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being charged.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
purcnase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
x situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch M masters, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
Sttf
W*
pEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
SMOKE
E.F.L.
BRIAR
PIPES.
Are best London
made.
From 2/6 each.
All Shapes.
Write for Illus-
trated Cataloi/ue.
E. F. LIND 8 CO., 398 George St., Sydney.
Banking-.
The gank of jjostralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,610,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,810,000
London Office; 4 Tlireadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of j)e<u Booth Males.
Establish ion 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,650,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ~ .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,650,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. O. I£. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
■ The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, lit.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
Auditors • WILLIAM Harrington Palmer, Esq.
‘ '( Shepheard Edgecliff Laidlev, Esq.
London Office—64- Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agents and Correspondents through-
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures ; issues Letters of
Credit and Circular Notes negotiable throughout the-
world; undertakes the Agency of other Banks; and
conducts all customary Banking, business.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). *
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports. *
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
"S.S. Yongala, July 3.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
I s * s - Gran tala, June 26.
S.S. Innamincka, July 3.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable 'ina. n
first Port of call with other inter-State
services subject to conditions, which can be ascerta ned
on application at the Company’s Office. a eU
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION LINE
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing, the new twin-screw steamer “TOFUA ”
duiy 20, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCK-
RAND, transhipping at latter port for Svdnev
thence every 28 days ; J ’
or the new twin-screw steamer, “ ATUA.” leaving
Auck'and on July 20 for TONGA, SAMOA and
MJI to Sydney, every 28 days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTO ” July 6
thence every four weeks for RARATONGA and’TAIIITI’
return my from the latter port to Wellington per
“ MAMAPOURI,” allowing a stay of 20 days in Tahiti
arriving- at Wellington, September 2 ;
or per “ MANAPCURI,” leaving- Wellington, July 7
thence every five we.-ks for RARATONGA and TAHITI’
returning: from TAHITI to Auckland per HAUROTO ’’
allowing- a stay at TAHITI of 28 davs, arriving at
Auckland August 26.
For further information
and descriptive booklet
apply—
to the various offices
in Australasia of
the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
LIMITED, 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GANAOIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE- BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
Grand Excursion to Banff,
Canadian RocKies.
INCLUDING HOTEL
EXPENSES. dLVtU
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H. —5.
Federal«Houlder>Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “DORSET.”
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 13th July
, „ „ SYDNEY - - 17th July
For Port Said Direct.
The saloon accommodation consists of ail two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and |
LIVERPOOL., f
£49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Believes Asthma and difficult breathing.


BPPin^aaggc^jp
&
sJ->
m
'X" i
is^
v*
:;Vv‘
m
•A”
si
■T
e.
i'V' ? ::v.' .•
' v-
d_3cy
■ "V:*
=,-.■•
sn
c£
ckb cL
i
,
1
I
m
HHii
ram
-D
o
© a
vS
11
' v:’; ct
MB
o.i
JH
mxEaJr
Co
• 4»
DM
L 3
D
FL
il
CAL
*r
'
N™ aUEEN^LAN¥^ff[5^|J
- .• y-a. y- —
Adelaide Steamship Co.
Ltd.
S.S. GRANTALA 5.5. WOLLOWRA
S.S. MARLOQ S.S. INNAMINCKA
Australasian United Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
T.S.S. WYREEMA S.S. WODONGA
S.S. WYANDRA S.S. ARAVVATTA
*T.S.S. KURANDA
Howard Smith Co.
Ltd.
5.5. COOMA S.S. BOMBALA
5.5. PEREGRINE
♦T.S.S. MOURILYAN
FIRST-CLASS RETURN FARES.
From Melbourne to Cairns £l6 lO
•» Sydney to Cairns ... 1-4 O
», Brisbane to Cairns ... lO lO
s , Adelaide to Cairns ... 210
Fremantle to Cairns 29 O
99
0 0 0 0 0
* Between Townsville and Cairns via intermediate ports.
I H or h ull Particulars or Descriptive
Pamphlets apply Agents at all Ports,


He was the cotter’s only child,
They called him Little Jim,
And Death, with scythe and hour-glass, had
Called round to wait on him.
The mother wept, the father sobbed,
For Death looked very sure,
But Little Jim’s still in the swim
Through Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
IN BANANA LAND.
Australia has ordered 1000 of the new
ferro-concrete telegraph poles, and if this trial lot
answers, it will solve one of the toughest financial
problems in the Department. In Queensland the
lines north and west of Rockhampton alone cost
£20,000 a year to maintain, owing to the ravages
of the white ant; and it takes a lot of ninepenny
telegrams to make up £20,000.
Bar the Midland railway project, to link
up Cunnamulla and Gharleville with the Gulf, the
biggest thing advocated in recent times in
Queensland is the switching together of Rock-
hampton and Townsville by still another coastal
line. The Far North is putting energy into the
movement, because it reckons that it would be
whisked up and down about 7f hours more swiftly
than it is per steamer, and the spendthrift poli-
tician who says “Hooray !” to all borrowing
schemes is cheering at the very roof of his
voice. But as the policy now is that none but
guarantors need apply for railways, the land-
owners are not making so loud a shout as usual.
The line will probably have to be built some day ;
but just at present Queensland needs to link its
back country with its coastal ports, or to pay for
some of the linking that has been done, rather
than to spend millions on the huge job of putting
all its outports on to one long railway string,
mainly for the purpose of leading traffic towards
one disproportionately bloated city.
‘ ‘ Waddy ’ ’ on Queen sland’s newest trams:—
The humor of the new trarmvav in Rockhampton is
commencing, the system having just been opened with
the assistance of one archway of greenery and a Queens-
land Premier. The “system ”at present consists of one;
line to the Botanical Gardens ; but others are to follow.
The service was “blooded” by killing an old deaf man
who was working on the line. It slew him dead on the
second day of its existence. Up to then nobody seemed
to think that it wasn’t quite the safe thing to em-
ploy deaf men on maintenance work. The trams are
worked by coffee-pot steam engines, and the puzzle
with some of the drivers seems to be how to
make the engine end of the car run first, and
also how to make the wretched things pass one
another. There are circular loops to enable the trams to
runaround and reverse the engine; but it seems to be
quite optional whether the cars run stern first or coffee-
pot first. If the pot happens to run behind the car the
driver, who has no gong, wildly sounds a motor horn.
No one but an acrobat need apply for the job of ticket-
collector. It makes one’s blood coagulate to see the col-
lector climb along the trimmings of one car to get across
the sft. gap to the other car. Fortunately, the speed is not
extravagant. Down hill the vehicles are fine ; uphill, when
the summer comes, all hands will have to get off and push.
The passengers’ remarks just now on the collector’s time-
honored observation, “’Urry on, please,” are worth the
fare any day. If the Rockhampton Municipal Council
were to engage a dozen Sydney tram conductors, and if
these gentlemen brought with' them their present habit
of getting promptly off the mark, the cars would never
carry a passenger. Rockhampton ladies will not be
hurried by any ordinary tram conductor, even if he does
wear a “ confection ”of blue and silver. Still, the officers
require a beautiful uniform to compensate them for
having to explain so often that a return fare is twice as
much as a single fare.
Bananaland has its regular ’possum season
nowadays. It commenced on May 1. This is the
time when the cyanide poisoner gets in his
cowardly work; by his processes the kittens
suffer as well as the adult ’possums whose skins
are worth marketing. The result is a great in-
crease in the death rate of the baby ’possum
population. Snares of thin wire are used where
police are liable to tu l rn up. In good’possum
country an average night’s catch is 50- Some-
times the skilful snarer scores 100. Recently
at Rolleston a dozen trappers, as a result
of three weeks’ work, sold 20,000 skins
at 17s. fid. per dozen—which suggests that
the pursuit of the little animal with the
hilarious nose is a better game than dragging the
female called Matilda over the endless roads
which lead out to The Edge. Each man’s share
panned out at £l2O. Most of the trappers work
in couples with the aid of the Binghis from some
adjacent blacks’ camp. The buying is done by an
expert who knows a few things. But the ’pos-
sumer also knows a tew things, one of them being
that the buyer knows a darned sight too much.
So he periodically wires to Sydney and Mel-
bourne for ’possum-skin quotations. In case
the dissatisfied civil servant, the ruined share-
broker, and the decayed merchant should
rush off, on reading these llines, to join in
this gold-making enterprise, it is well to
mention that ’possuming requires special know-
ledge. There is many an eloquent preacher or
capable ambassador who might go all over Aus-
tralia with a telescope and never once see a
possum.
One Munro Hull has his industrial eye
turned towards Queensland’s great vegetable
curse, the prickly pear, and he has applied for a
patent. He proposes to turn the curse into
building material by pressing it into bricks with
clay. The sticky juices of the squashed pear
supply the adhesive property. Then cement is
dusted on the brick and afterwards it is dressed in
a coat of oil. The inventor declares that every
farmer who has pear on his premises may get a
cheap plant and grow bricks for the market as
regularly as he now does potatoes and cream, and
there may be a time ahead when an unusual har-
vest of bricks will make up for a shortage in eggs
or a famine in fruit. There is a fascination
about the colossal cactus curse which appeals
to those who hanker after big things, but up to
date all the schemes for turning the pear into
money are still in the air.
Out Birdsville way, where Queensland’s
hack window lets in the light of Central Aus-
tralia, and where even the humblest resident has
half a continent for his backyard, settlement will
shortly be attempted once more. Squatters did
push out there years ago, hut the weather turned
dog on them—they bitterly declared that it was a
“fair cow”—and reduced their flocks and herds
to bone heaps. But of late a new hunger for
territory has arisen thereabouts, thanks to a series
of seasons which are called good at Birdsville, but
which would be regarded at most other places as
about as dry as a gallows ; consequently a stretch
of 7885 square miles at the Wyeroo and Daroo
is marked off on the map in 25 blocks,
to he let at 7s. 6d. per square mile per annum.
Birdsville, right in the south-western corner
of the State, is 1032 miles from Brisbane, and
those who have been down in that corner -ire
satisfied that, for isolation, it about holds the
record or the bun or whatever it is. The railway
from Rockhampton crawls out to within two or
three or four hundred miles of it, but Birdsville
does much of its trade with •Adelaide. It is so
far out and so accustomed to immense distances
that it is quite capable of buying its morning chops
in Calcutta and sending to Tobolsk for its ready-
made suit of “clobber.”
STILL LOOKING
FOR A JOB.
“And why did you leave your last place?” “ Well, you see, mum, Mr. Smith would kiss me.”
“And you, of course, very properly objected?” “ Well—er—his wife did.”
North Queensland banana-growers are
hastily getting together a petition to the Prime
Minister, praying that the banana duties be in-
creased aom Is. per cental-to 2s. This is due to
word having been received that 200 10s.-a-week
coolies have left China for Fiji, to work on banana
plantations, and that 300 others are to follow in
haste. And what makes the northern growers
mad—especially the white growers—is that the
Victorian Government subsidises the boats that
are expected to bring the Fijian Chow-grown crop
to the Commonwealth.
The Phidston Government had a sounder
sleep last Saturday night than it has had for many
a week. Labor had collared the late Janny
Leahy’s old seat; Rockhampton had given Kidston
himself the hottest roasting of his life; and flow,
if Aloreton went hack on the Phidston crowd, it
was realised that the Phidston cake was really
dough. So both parties went for More-
ton bald-headed ; and Phidston won—through
“Jimmy ” Forsyth, Philp’s brother-in-law. But
it isn’t all joy for Phidston ; for, though it won in
the end, it wasn’t able to prevent its own vote
from being split. J. D. Campbell, another Philp
relative, who resigned the seat through ill-health,
didn’t live long enough to read the results; he
died on polling day.
The sugar grower never thought of inven-
tions so long as he could get unlimited supplies of
Tommy Tanna and Ah Muck, wherefore the
business remained the most primitive in Australia.
But nowadays, when it is no use whining that the
white man can’t do the work, the growers
begin to use their brains ; and a whole crowd
of improvements are coming forward. The
latest is a cutting machine, invented by
John Jackson, of Bingera, near Bundaberg. At
the trial 150 stools of ratoon cane (15 sticks per
stool) were treated in half an hour. Each stool is
taken separately, so the difficulty of not cutting
cane evenly on rough ground is got over. The
contrivance only weighs 91b., and can be worked
by two men, who couldn’t negotiate more than
about half the above-mentioned quantity with
cane knives. Up to now, however, no machine
has been invented capable of cutting down the
big slice of their harvest that is collared from the
growers by the Sugar Refining monopoly.
“ Flinderino’s ” tale :
Hop Louey Let, of North Queensland, is the most
wonderful Chinaman I have ever met. He puts Chung
Ling Soo in the shade. Besides being an expert magician
he is a clever doctor and a thorough business man ; also
a husband to five wives, and the father of -1 juvenile
Chinkies. I was fortunate enough to be very friendly
with this eminent Celestial, and during our short
acquaintance I learnt many things. One night Hop
Louev Let invited me to his boarding-house, which is
situated up a lane in Chinatown. He kept a hash
establishment for Chinamen. I might mention that this
wonderful Asiatic was engaged in an important experi-
ment. Hop Louey Let possessed a mysterious drug of
his own manufacture, which, when administered to a
Chinaman, would render that- person apparently lifeless.
And the victim would remain in a seemingly defunct and
petrified condition for an indefinite period. _ During tins
mystical trance the patient could he put in an airtight
chamber without fatal result. To bring the person to
life a <r ain an evil-smelling scent-stick, also manufactuied
by Hop Louey Let, is lighted, and the fumesarising there-
from do the resurrection trick.
I was admitted at the front door of the boarding-house
by the doctor himself, and he impressed on me the de-
sirability of strict secrecy. The place was a three-roomed
shanty. One room was nearly full of packets of herbs
and bottles of queer-looking fluids, and in the corner
there were half a dozen large earthenware jars. These
jars, I afterwards found out, contained dead eats pre-
served in spirits. Another room was bare, except for an
ordinary single bed that stood in the middle.
“ I thought you kept boarders ?” I asked. “So I do,”
replied Hop Louey Let; “ fourteen of them, hut only for
experimental purposes.” “Fourteen! In the name of
Joss-Confucius, wherever do they sleep ? ” “ They all go
to sleep in that bed,” said the doctor, pointing to the
solitary bunk. Fourteen Chinese in one single bed ! This
was too much for me, so I held my tongue and awaited
events. A chair was placed for me at one end of the
bedroom, and I was instructed to be seated and to watch,
but not to speak unless spoken to.
After a while, the Chinese boarders arrived from the
fan-tan shops and seated themselves in the third room,
which was the eating room, and began an animated con-
versation in their native tongue. At nine o’clock prompt
Hop Louey Let tapped at the door of the eating room and
called out: “Ah Wong.” A young-looking Celestial
stepped into the room, and, after partially undressing',
lay down in the bed. The doctor administered the mys-
terious drug, and, without further ado, Ah Wong became
stiff and silent. Two minutes passed in silence ; then the
magician-doctor lifted the sleeper out of the bed and
stood him up on end in the corner of the room. Tapping
the second time at the eating-room door, Hop Louey Let
called : “ Kwong Chang.” A crinkled old Mongolian came
into the room and put himself to bed. He was duly
drugged, and two minutes later Kwong Chang, stiff and
silent, was upended against the wall alongside Ah Wong.
This performance was repeated until, at 10 o’clock, II
petrified Ghinamen were upended around the walls of the
small bedroom. The wonderful doctor then invited me
to occupy the bed, but I declined with thanks. “Why
didn’t you leave the last man in the bed ?” I asked. “ And
where would I sleep?” replied HopLoueyLet. In answer
to another of my questions, the doctor said he would
wake the boarders up at six o’clock in the morning with
the perfume stick.
Having seen enough to satisfy my curiosity, I expressed
a wish to depart. But the Celestial had something else
to show me. I followed him along miscellaneous back
ways to the other end of Chinatown. Producing a
wooden key from his pocket, he opened the door of a
room attached to the Joss house. Hop Louey Let then
lit a lantern that was hanging just inside the door, and
invited me to step inside. A weirder sight I’d never seen
before. Opposite me were three shelves along the wall.
And stacked on the shelves were eight petrified human
bodies. The bottom shelf held three Japanese, the
second shelf three Malays, and the third shelf two Aus-
tralian aborigines. Hop Louey Let told me that these
unfortunates had been asleep for over nine months. The
wonderful drug had sent them to sleep all right, but the
resurrecting scent-stick was only successful in recalling
Chinamen. He hoped to perfect a new perfume stick
within the next six months —a perfume stick that would
be effective on sleepers of all nationalities. Until this
improved stick was forthcoming, the three Japanese, the
thre° Malays, and the two blackfellows would have to
remain dead.
“ Derf Commor ” : It happened at a North
Queensland town at the annual race-meeting time.
A youth who had had a good time punting at the
day’s racing was hashing himself and his money
pretty freely. After making himself the centre
of attraction, he blazed forth, “I’ll bet anyone in
the room I have more money on me than they
have.” There was no response. “Come on,” he
said. “We will put our money in a hat, a bit at
a time, until one is finished, the winner to take
the lot and shout for the crowd.” A look of ex-
pectancy filled the eyes of everyone, but no one
spoke until an old sundowner got up. “ Come
on.” he said; “I’ll see you.” “What, you?”
said the flash one scornfully. “ Yes, me,” was the
answer. The f)ftsb one got Bung to hold his hat,
and started thA‘^gpi;i,; v with a sovereign. The sun-
downer followed with 3d. “Go on,” said the
flash one. “ got,” was the answer;
“ take it and snout for the room.”
A Tropic Garden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DO you remember a tropic garden, bamboos
slender and lightly green,
White lilies heavy with summer sweet-
ness, gold bananas that hung between,
Pinangs lifting a lofty crowning, tulip trees like
tongues of fire,
Pale feather-grass on the hill-flank browning, hope
and laughter and young desire?
Now we have grown too wise for loving—have left
our gardens for roads of grey;
The butterflies in the shrub screens moving have
wandered wide and lost their way,
And you are striving for rank and money, and I
am toiling for fleeting fame ;
The bitter aloe has drenched the honey, and the
ashes have quenched the flame.
Once long ago we were frail and human, fingers
stretched for the Love god’s spoils,
And now no more are we man and woman, just a
brain and a hand that toils.
But I remember a tropic garden, bamboos tufted
with gloss of green,
A pallid lily with swinging chalice, gold bananas
that hung between.
I wonder if, by the boughs bloom-laden, where
soft winds frolic and sunbeams sleep,
Some other man to some other maiden whispers
vows he can never keep ?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 19,1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The sun rose upon polling day in the Moreton
just as the late member, J. D. Campbell, breathed
his last. A good fellow was J.D.C., and one
well liked by his employees. He had many limi-
tations as a Minister, however, and showed one of
them in his famous assertion that the dairying
industry of the State amounted to practically
nothing alongside of the timber trade. The
figures at the time were against him by 10 to 1.
He came of a Scotch stock, but was born in
Queensland, and educated at the local Normal
School. He died at the comparatively early age
of 58. While a young man he worked at the
building trade, and as you use timber, not milk or
cheese, for building, his affection for timber as
against cow was perhaps explainable. It might be
simply another of the deceased’s limitations. He
held the portfolio of Railways during the last
short-lived Philp regime.
By the grace of God and a heap of tact, Mr.
Harris, the organising secretary of the General
Hospital, has lifted the annual hop of that stone-
broke institution out of a slough of middle-class
failure and made it a vast success. The Lieutenant-
Governor and his portly missus (still in black
brocade), with A.D.C. Claude Foxton in attend-
ance, and Dorothy Raff (a niece) in tow, graced
the scene, as did the Naval Commandant and
Mrs. Richardson. The new Grandmaster of the
Queensland Constitution of Stone-breakers, and
his other half, and a heap of miscellaneous celebri-
ties graced the scene on Thursday evening last.
Mrs. Richardson easily secured the prize for
clothes. She draped her fine lines in velvet-
embossed black chiffon over white, and her iron-
grey hair boasted a pink rose and a twist of
turquoise blue. The Mayoress was in pretty white
wrappings, and Mrs. Harris decked herself in
garniture of pink.
A brother of Archibald Forbes, the well-known
war correspondent, is in our midst. (Not that we
have eaten him; I mean that he is just here.)
He hails from the Gulf land, where men
make manners, not manners men ; and he tells
some strange tales of the land of Outback. He
doesn’t look much like brother Archie, but a cer :
tain force of character seems to run in the family.
The Railway Department has taken to tripping
the tourists, who are fleeing north to escape the
southern winter, about the country side. The
Department arranges a cheap excursion to Mud-
ville or Dusty Flat, and then lets it become known
to the local aldermen that a number of dis-
tinguished visitors are coming. The local pride
does the rest. Feeling that then or never is the
time to stand up for the glory of Slushborough,
they vote some ratepayers’ money for a day’s
outing, and entertain the foreign multitude royally.
This popularises the trips, and saves the Depart-
ment a heap of expense. Toowoomba’s city
fathers provided lashins of food and drink that
will live long in the memory of the wanderers.
But for advt. purposes Gympie got there first. It
had souvenirs printed, giving the whole history
of the place, the day’s programme and what not,
and forwarded these ahead, so that the trippers
arrive deeply impressed by the fact that the town
boasted 30 miles of streets, and was discovered by
one Nash, wherefore it started life under the name
of Nashville. The Gympie fathers didn’t exactly
waste their substance in feasting their friends,
but they made them speeches, and drove them out
to the Scottish mine, dumped them into the cages,
and lowered away. On arrival 1658 ft. down, the
visitors were allowed to gloat over some fine gold
specimens, and to view the most numerous colony
of cockroaches known anywhere. Millions of
them run races over these regions underground.
The party was shown the “dining-hall,” a huge
space where the Chelmsford couple (clad in un-
becoming overalls) had their pictures taken, and
where the local Chief Anglican once praught to a
moderate congregation.
Parsons, bishops, and mere curates assembled
in hosts at Bishopsbourne on Saturday, where
weak tea and sweet confectionery, and all those
pale, gentle, low-voiced foods that appertain to
the church picnic, were spread about the lawn.
The pump-handling was done in the sitting or
drawing or breakfast room—it might even have
been the parlor—after which the guests drifted
out into the cold, bleak west wind, while a band
in the upper verandah buzzed a melody.
The pretty lady of the pink feathers is no longer
here to gladden the hearts of men. She has folded
her tents into a pony-trap and silently stolen
away, leaving a broken-hearted benedict to return
to his beloved vegetables and water the garish
sunflower at sunset.
Among the strangers who have struck Queen-
street recently, Airs. Bengough, Miss Murphy
(Melba’s Boswell), and her pal, Miss Moore, are
about the most interesting. The two former
ladies were the only witnesses called for the
defence at the trial of Miss Christabel Pankhurst,
when that lady was lagged at Holloway. Mrs.
Bengough is herself a red-hot Suffragette, and the
recording secretary of the Toronto League. She
is a bright, knowledgable little woman.
Yours affectionately,
MAKIO.
An eminent frog authority writes from
North Queensland :
Ever noticed the similarity in the sounds made by frogs
in concert, and those made by the aborigines in cor-
roboree? The time-beats are identical, the gins’ hollow-
sounding thigh smacks representing the basso profundo
frog, and the clapclap of the bucks resembling the
“ whack-whack ”of the chorus frogs. The human row
starts as unaccountably as the frog row, and ceases as
suddenly. In Cooktown once had opportunity of hear-
ing frogs at their best during a 12|-inch rainfall one
night, since when I am of opinion that the humble froggy
is the originator of the corroboree. The native has not
improved much on the frog. But then Cooktown frogs
are frogs. The effeminate Down South person who
looks on a frog as a small, damp thing to be lifted
in the hand, instead of a great wet bucketful of croak,
doesn’t understand the situation. Intoxicated people
here are sometimes attacked and smothered by frogs on
the way home.
“ Moorabinda’s ” tale :—•
Tn 1555 the Government in Brisbane was blessed
with an official named Philip Plato Dains Viggers. He
had been an army “ lootenant,” as they say in the United
States —a fact which, in the early days of Australia, was
(or seemed to be) held sufficient qualification for
any office outside the Church. Plato Dains Viggers
was appointed Superintendent of Roads for Moreton Bay,
and he set to work to clear the road between Brisbane
and Ipswich. But instead of stumping and clearing off
the trees in the orthodox way, he started a new fashion
by putting men on with saws'to shave the trees down to
the level of the earth. The ungrateful bushman who
used the road was wont to complain that in wet weather
these wooden “tables” were more slippery than a wood
pavement to a galloping horse, and that they tripped
him up as the earth washed away from the edges of the
stump. The experiment was not a success, as the trees
soon grew up again (when the bushman was not riding
over them). A bit of straight road near Ipswich, got up
in this fashion, was known for a long time afterwards as
“ Viggers’ Avenue.”


BRIDGING THE SOLITUDES.
The Railway System of Queensland is a splendid
asset co-operatively owned by the people of
Queensland.
A share in this magnificent communal service is
offered to every immigrant who throws in his
lot with the people of the Rich North.
The State-owned Railways are one part of the great
scheme of development planned by the pioneer
statesmen of Queensland; Immigration and
Land Settlement are its complements.
The State Railways make every Queensland farm
and station a suburb of London, New York,
Berlin, and Paris.
They are part of the great conduit pipe which con-
veys the produce of the Northern State to the
teeming populations of the world.
Queensland To-Day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXV.
THE BAILWAY SYSTEM.—I.
(BY J. D. FITZ GERALD.)
The two great, but not, happily, irremediable draw-
backs to Queensland industrial and commercial
development were, first, the aridity of certain
areas ; and, secondly, the want of internal water
communication by means of lakes or navigable
rivers. The colonists were in no wise daunted by
these drawbacks. They had faith in their
capacity to overcome difficulties. They were not
of the races that are easily shaken off ; with bold
determination they supplied the want of river
communication between the seaports and the in-
terior by means of railways. A stroke of fortune
remedied the other want —in the discovery of the
lavish supply of artesian water, which had only
to be sought in favorable situations, even in
the most unpromising territory, and gushing
streams and flowing fountains were the result.
The enterprise of the early Queenslanders was
equal to the emergency which they found facing
them. As the country opened, and settlement
proceeded apace; as those outward “treks”
which have already been described rent the veil
of the bush and dissolved for ever the legend of
NEAR THE RAILWAY.—PUTNEY, LANEFIELD, LOCKYER DISTRICT.
the “great Australian desert,” the statesmen—
“rough and inexperienced, but equal to the great
occasion ” —proceeded to sketch out a bold,
ambitious policy which, happily, has been
crowned with success, and has made Queensland
what it is to-day, a Democracy organised on sound
commercial lines. For one thing, they deter-
mined to build railways—State-owned railways.
With regard to this splendid progressiveness
and large-mindedness of the early statesmen, we
PAU PAU APPLES, MARBURG
(Near the Cairns Railway).
must not judge their work by some of the nar-
rower standards of to-day. Doubtless the “aver-
age man ” of to-day—that is, the townsman who
wears a straw hat, turned-up trousers, elephant’s-
breath sdeks, and a clean-shaven face, would hesi-
tate to acknowledge these rough-bearded men as
within the pale of statesmanship. The same
dapper individuals would look upon Drake as a
coarse fellow, Wallace as a mark for the police (if
there had been police in his time), and Lincoln as
a very badly dressed man with a ridiculous way of
growing his beard. The manners of Queensland’s
pioneer statesmen probably did not have —
That repose
Which stamps the caste of Vere de Vere.
But they were full of faith in the possibilities of
the country in which they found themselves ; full
of enthusiasm in the cause of its progress and de-
velopment. Their policy then was—as it is the
policy of the Queensland Government to-day—to
fill the empty spaces, to develop the riches of the
country, to establish thousands of prosperous
settlers in happy and comfortable homes, and to
give them access to the larger markets with their
products.
To-day the railway policy of the State of
Queensland appears, to the thoughtless, an almost
COGOANUT PALMS , PORT DOUGLAS.
obvious necessity. Some minds would wonder at
there being any praise to allot to the men who
dared to propound the bold policy. But, when
we are taking stock of the history of the material
development of a State—as lam endeavoring to
do in these articles—we must attempt to put our-
selves in the place and time of the pioneers, and
then we will realise the measureless faith which
they possessed in the greatness of the country.
To put ourselves in their place mentally, so as to
judge of their boldness, we must dismiss from our
minds the knowledge of three great factors which
have since arisen, and which have opened fields of
wealth and national advancement undreamt of
in the pioneers’ day, viz. : (1) Gold, (2) artesian
water, and (3) cold storage and rapid oversea
transit. We may assume with confidence that the
railway builders of the ’sixties in Queensland
never imagined that they were laying lines of con-
nection between Toowoomba and London ; that
they were establishing part of a world-wide con-
duit pipe between Cloncurry and New York,
Winton and Liverpool, Longreach and Liege,
Cunnarnulla and Hambourg. But they were.
The farmer who lived in Somersetshire or
Devonshire, and who grew his crops or his pro-
duce, made his butter or his cheese to supply the
London market, on emigrating to Queensland
changes his location but not his task. He is still
supplying the London market, but from his own
land, as his own landlord; not as a rack-
rented tenant, who could never become
the owner of the soil he tilled. All
this is the result of the railway policy of
those who, on the failure of the first attempt to
build a railway from Ipswich to Toowoomba on
private enterprise lines, began in 1863 the experi-
ment which, though it passed through many
vicissitudes and many days of evil fortune, is
to-day a splendid success, and the chief part of
the complex mechanism which, combined together
on scientific principles, goes to make up an up-to-
date Democracy. And it may here be noted—as
doubtless the reader has already observed—that
throughout these articles I have emphasised the
fact that Democracy is not a mere theory of
government—a matter for doctrinaires to specu-
late about as if it were a philosophical or economic
exercise. Australian Democracy, which has its
latest and highest expression in the scheme of
Queensland government, is a practical application
of Democratic, Socialistic and even Communistic
theories to an every-day working policy moving
on commercial lines.
Australian Democracy does not ask, “Am I
my brother’s keeper?” It regards its brother as
a substantial asset, estimable
on a 5 per cent.
TRAIN WITH FAT SHEEP LEAVING LONGREAGH.
basis; as an implement—sentient and intelligent
—towards cultivating the national heritage, and
producing from the land the dormant wealth
which is as useless as the gems in the Valley of
Diamonds were to Sinbad the Sailor, until it is
brought to the marts of commerce to be bartered
through a million industrial veins and conduits for
those other wealth products which the world
offers. At the outset of the policy of railway
building, the communal ownership of that great
service was predetermined ; and that in itself
bound the few colonists of that day, as it does the
many of to-day, into an industrial and co-operative
joint stock company, owners of a great national
service upon which there has been an expenditure
of 23r, millions sterling. That was the amount
which it cost to build the three great trunk lines
running east to west from the Northern, Central,
and Southern Divisions of Queensland, consisting
of 3359 miles of lines and a system employing
thousands of men, having its own workshops,
carrying nearly 7,000,000 passengers annually,
and spreading the benefits of rapid com-
KAMERUNGA STATE NURSERY, CAIRNS.
munication from the coast to the remotest west.
It would hardly do to omit reference to the
possible strategic value of these railways to the
Commonwealth in the future. The problem of
the Northern Territory is one which fills our
statesmen with concern. Many able authorities
regard the Territory as the vulnerable points—the
Achilles heel—of Australian defence. A raiding
cruiser fleet could make a lodgment on the Terri-
tory, which is but seven or eight days’ rapid
steaming from Nagasaki or Vladivostock. But
with transcontinental railways available for mili-
tary use—with a connection between the southern
populationsand the Northern Territory—the people
of Australia could speedily deal with any attempt
to permanently occupy the Empty North. The
extensions north-west of this splendid Queensland
railway system could be used, not only for stra-
tegic purposes, but also as the present railways
are used, to open up country for settlement, and
give access of men to land, and of products to
markets. And, in time, all the railways'of the
Commonwealth will be linked with those of
Queensland.
Had the railway policy of Queensland, on its
present lines, never been conceived or carried out,
we should have had a mere insignificant fringe
of population along the coastal districts. The
splendid pioneering deeds which opened up the
“ back country ” would have been fruitless. The
territories opened to civilisation would have
lapsed back again to their primeval solitudes;
the potential wealth located by the explorers for
future development would have lain unexploited.
Though the idea of co-ordinating the defence
question with that of material development did
not occur to the pioneers, it is one which suggests
itself to us; and vve are not the only country in the
world which has the same i'dea in contemplation.
E ver since the conclusion of the Russo-Jap war in
1905, the Russians have been pouring Cossack
farmers into the steppes of Siberia, and settling
them along that splendid line of communication
which stretches like a ribbon from Warsaw to Vladi-
vostock. Russia, a nation which we are inclined
to regard as still within the pale of barbarism, is
teaching Australia a lesson in this. In any future
war with the Eastern nations she will have
her supplies near the seat of War,
and her men will be
within call, ready to repel attacks upon their own
homesteads—homesteads which are increasing by
thousands annually, until Siberia will spring into
manhood, “a new world, called into existence to
redress the balance of the old.”
The Queensland railways on the one hand, and
the Barrier Reef on the other, will be great factors
in the future defence of Australia; and the
policy of the Queensland Government in steadily
pushing on railway construction side by side with
land settlement —the one a complement of the
other—is a policy of national wisdom and fore-
sight. In the history of the Queensland railways,
which appears in the official “Year Book of
Queensland,” compiled by the Registrar-General,
Mr. J. Hughes, the fact is recalled that from the
very first inception of the enterprise railway con-
struction went hand in hand with immigration
and settlement. It has been a common experi-
ence throughout Australia for the workmen, on
railways which have been built to open up
good country, to settle down on the land which
has thus been opened ; so that settlement and
construction are carried on simultaneously. From
the main “trunk” lines which have been laid
down in Queensland light lines are being
pushed out as feeders, and these bring the
distant settler, as settlement spreads backward
from the railway, into communication with
his markets. Further, self-help is brought into
play in districts where the residents are ardent be-
lievers in the potentialities of the future. In places
where a brilliant future is assured, the residents in
the zones benefited by the proposed line may
combine to insure the Government against loss on
working expenses, and to guarantee it 3 per cent,
on the cost of construction.
There is another aspect of the Queensland
railway question which commends itself to the
writer, That is, the fact that the lines running
from the sea coast westward are delightful con-
veniences for the tourist. In no country in the
world can the traveller, in a short space of time,
find so many magnificent stretches of diversified
scenery. From Brisbane through to Charle-
ville and Cunnamulla, there are alternations
of plain and river, mountain gorge and giddy
curve, splendid timbers and forests, great cul-
tivated tablelands, and dry western pasture lands.
From Rockhampton to Longreach or Blackall
immense stretches of pastoral country lie on either
side of the line. From Townsville the character-
istics of the tropic zones are more apparent; and
the short line from Cairns through a tropic belt,
scaling lofty hills and emerging through fine
mountain passes upon a perfectly beautiful table-
land, is unsurpassed in the world for its special
and distinctive beauties. The writer has been
through Java and Japan by train, and in neither
of those superlatively beautiful railway trips is
there finer scenery than may be viewed from many
and many a stretch of the Queensland railways,
north, south and west. From the carriage
windows of the luxurious trains on the
Queensland system the tourist looks out at
the evidences of wealth and comfort created
by a virile white race of European stocks, main-
taining a standard of life and culture which is not
inconsistent with the toil of the fields ; while in
Japan and Java he will be disconcerted by the
evidence of a low standard of comfort in the
BRISBANES WATER SUPPLY.
workers who till the soil. Australia has neither
white nor black coolies; and the Australian when
abroad is utterly unable to comprehend a system
which degrades the worker into a mere beast of
burden, working all the hours that God sends,
and paid a mere pittance. In many of the
neighboring countries to the north the words
Coniptinction or Compassion are not under-
stood-t-human pity does not exist; and when a
travelling Australian contrasts the sturdy, inde-
pendent, self-reliant toiler, whom he sees on the
Australian landscape as he whirls through in the
State-owned railways, with the beast-like coolie'
men and (worst of all) women of the Javanese,
Indian and Japanese rice fields; and when he
remembers the significance which the term,
“coolie,” has in the East —the awful human
degradation which the term implies—he registers
a firm resolve within his breast that no coolie
class, whether white or black, shall ever degrade
the free soil of Australia.


Which Brought Him Relief from
Affection of Face and Forehead
Tried Several Other Remedies
and Consulted Two Physicians.
IN MIDST OF BUSY LIFE
SENDS LETTER OF PRAISE
•
Dunkibk Vicarage, Faversham,
. July 10, 1907
Dear Sir: I am very busily en-
gaged in preparation for the reopening
of our parish church which has delayed
my reply to your recent letter. I may
tell you that I have been vicar of this
parish since January 1854, and am now
m my eighty-fifth year. My ailment
affected my face and forehead. It
commenced five or six years ago and I
had recourse to several remedies and
consulted two physicians. After a
while I happened to read an adver-
tisement about Cuticura and deter-
mined to give it a trial. So I began
with the Cuticura Soap, then purchased
Cuticura Ointment, then added the
Resolvent, for which I have substituted
the Pills. Now I consider myself virtu-
ally cured and neither trouble doctor,
nor myself, nor any one else about skin
affections. I have much pleasure in
recommending Cuticura Remedies. I
use no other soap but Cuticura for my
face and hands.
“Yours very truly, W. J. Springett.”
ECZEMAS
And Other Itching, Torturing
Humours Cured by Cuticura.
Warm baths with Cuticura Soap and
gentle anointings with Cuticura Oint-
ment afford instant
relief in the most dis-
tressing forms of itch-
ing, burning, scaly,
crusted humours, ecze-
mas, rashes, inflam-
mations, irritations,
and chafings of infancy
and childhood, permit
rest and sleep and point to a speedy
and permanent cure, in the majority of
cases, when all other remedies fail.
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
A Single Set often Cures. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Unix;
Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; South Africa,
Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U. S. A., Pottef
Drug & Chem. Corp.. Sole Props., Boston.
5 /
EAT PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
1 **■ l themselves and OBJECTS- of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly enjoy GOOD HEALTH.
Our NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
FAT quickly, safely, and per-
manently. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, - SYDNEY.
THIN WEAK, NERVOUS. SCRAGGY,
111111, FLAT-CHESTED, RUN-DOWN
and UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If .vou want to add flesh, be made
plump, strong, healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of
“MIRACULA” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Wi
There’s Style and.
Solid Worth in
this Boot at 18 6
IT may be had either
in Glac6 or Box Oalf
—the leather in each
case being' specially
selected and very soft to
the foot. You can have
it both in black or tan,
as you prefer.
The price of this is
/S/6—posted in Victoria
ltd. extra; to any other
State 1/3 extra.
Send for our Booklet
illustrating ourbig range
of Footwear for Woman,
Man and Child. It’s free.
LEEMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street,
Melbourne;
and at North Melbourne
and Prahran.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
_L Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
‘COAGULINE,’‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
—Cements for breakages, manufacturin'!: purposes, etc.
eA@)
Glycerine and “ Benzoe ” Soaps
now so much in d emand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chans an;!
“ Redness ” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing- and softening
the skin, set up an irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
GLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
0
NAPOLEON
SAID
“ An army marches on its stomach."
By that he meant that half-starved
men are not strong enough to march.
And you know that. Half-fed men
and women are not strong enough,
either for work or play. Indigestion
means slow starvation The people
who tire and become deptessed, who
feel life a burden and who go listlessly
to their day's work, would find life
enjoyable if they set their digestion
right with Mother Seigel's Syrup—
the digestive tonic compounded of
roots and herbs Test it yourself.
• I suffered greatly ft om Asthma and In-
digestion. t could not sleep at night from
Asthma, nor digest the little food I ate.
Aftei many other medicines had failed, I
was quickly cured, two i ears ago, by Mother
Seigel's Syrup.’!
Extract from letter of Mr. Wm. Law,
408, Ann Street. Bt isbane, Queensland,
November iji d 1908.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
WHY STAY
FAT?
v
Ten thousand Fat Women
have been restored to
normal.-So in ay you.
“FATCURE”
is a harmless and pleasant cure for Obesity.
In average cases it reduces by about 5 lbs.
per week, and the excess fat once removed
does not come back. Send 2d. stamp for
FREE TRIAL Sample and Free Book,
which explains how “ FATCURE ” cures.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney).
AUSTRALIAN BOORS
That Have Caught On!i
They’re books every Australian
should read.
They’re typical Australian from
cover to cover—full of intense
interest from start to finish.
They’re written, printed and
illustrated in Australia—you
ought to read them—they’re
published in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few
of them.
Steve Brown’s Bunyip, by A. J. Barry; price,
cloth, 1/6 ; postage 6d.
The Luck of the Native Born, by A. J Barry •'
price, paper, ]/-; postage 3d. ’
How McDougall Topped the Score, by T E
Spencer ; price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
The Spring Cleaning,
by T. E. Spencer;
price, paper, 1/- ; post-
age 3d.
(The above two com-
bined), price, cloth,
3/6 ; postage od.
The Surprising Ad-
ventures of Mrs.
McSweeney, by T. E.
Spencer ; price, paper,
1/-; postage 3d.
Budgeree Ballads, by
T. E. Spencer; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
A Man of Sympathy, by
Harry Tighe ; price,
paper, 1/-: postage 3d.
!*■ Surprising
Adventures
m
■ of
Mrs, Brief t/tl
VtSnvtiMY)
s l. v s ;
The Spell of the Bush, by John X. Cameron
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by Alf Brasch
, price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Chas. White ; price
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
Riverfall, by L. B. Por-
ter ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Adventures of Russell
Howard, by A. E. Job-
son ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
The New Chum, by A.
H. Adams ; price,
paper, I/-; postage 3d.
The Barb of an Arrow,
by Boy Bridges ; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
“ The Bulletin ” Re-
citer, New Edition ;
price, paper, 1/-; post-
age 3d.
RECITER
Harbor Guide, with Colored Maps ; price, p&jier,
6d. ; postage 3d.
Guide to Sydney, with Colored Maps; price,
paper, ]/- ; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
" AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEEING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Garpfts, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
| Its immense value in repairs to Boots
"and Shoes is now well known, and in
„ repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
lis the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
\ reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free ; 2 for 7d., set of 8 tor 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. too CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
ff
0
The building of our New
Premises is just completed,
and'cur Melbourne Office is
now located in SWANSTON
STREET, a few yards from the
corner of Lonsdale Street.
We cordially invite our cus-
tomers to inspect our New
Premises.
SWANSTON STREET, 3 doors from Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
234 Clarence Street, Sydney. 10 M:Henry Street, Adelaide.
Also Perth, Hobart, and Brisbane.
r-UE>E>EIR-
The Inky Way.
“ XXX ” : Talk about your John Gale, of the Quean-
bkyan Age, or Allan Campbell, of the Yass Courier, as
old N.S.W. newspapermen ! Why, they are only boys
compared to Charles Hardy, who walked across country
from Maitland to Yass in search of printing, and landed
at the latter town t’other day in a very weary and foot-
sore condition. Hardy is a gay young spark of 83, and
commenced lifting type at the office of the Government
Gazette, near the old Tank Stream in Sydney, 68 years
ago. Thence he went to the office of the Maitland
Mercury, and between then and now has occupied
positions on nearly all the big papers in N.S.W. He
worked for a long time on S. M. Herald when comps
were paid 2s. 6d. per thousand, and when it was no
uncommon thing for a case hand to earn £lO to £l5 per
week. On one occasion he packed a few cases of type and
a machine, and carted the lot to Kiandra, where there
was a gold rush. The heavy snow caused a block in the
waggon traffic, and the plant was transported to the
scene of operations per Chow caravan, carried on bam-
boos. One morning the newspaper man woke up and
found the community had disappeared. His whole
intellectual population was gone—even “ Constant
Reader” and ‘-Pro Bono Publico.” The diggers had
received word in the night,of a new discovery, and were
participating in the famous Lambing Plat 'rush. The
veteran is at present type-snatching in the office of
the Yass Courier, and still shows speed, despite his
burden of years.
j ’* * * *
When a N.S.W. newspaper in Governor Darling’s day
could not or would not pay the damages assessed against
it for libel, the Crown seized printers and reporters and
shoved them into durance, vile. At that period news-
paper proprietors could apply at the barracks for con-
victs to set type or record dbg-fights, and if any suitable
persons were on hand, they were hired out at a small
sum per week'. The seizure of these persons didn’t
matter much, but the seizure of free printers was a
grievance. The Sydney Monitor once failed to pay up
the libel bill, and two constables dragged a compositor
from his case. His after fate is uncertain. The
Australian also failed to pay up, and its reporter was
carried away from the police-court table. His after fate
is also uncertain. Later on, the libel laws were extended
so that the Crown could seize the machines and type,
even though someone else had a first mortgage on them.
I'' fact, the Crown could seize everything, and it often
did.
OUR DELEGATION!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Camerados of the press :
Awake ! —also Arise !
Slaves of the Lamp ; Servants of the Light ; Minions of
the Pantomorphic Press—
List!
I have to say, to deliver, to impart unto you ;
Something: you are cogitating, but which—for divers
excellent reasons known to your (hats off!) Rich Pro-
prietors— you deem it inexpedient audibly to express:
Therefore I, a Free Lance, who cares not, nor ever did
care greatly, for your (all stand, please !) Rich Pro-
prietors :
I who, moreover, have crossed swords with them (being:
maddened to that exceeding: boldness—
I, Oliver Cromwell Cabot —ahem !)
Will say it for you !...
It concerns an Honor ;
A prodigious, overwhelming, and totally unparalleled
Honor 1
An Honor conferred upon You and Me—which is to say
Us, camerados !
I allude to the Conference ;
The Imperial Pantomorphic, Polyglot, Press Conference,
now sitting or flitting in and about London.
Particularly do I allude to Our Delegation, notable and
nimbiferous—
Those great and high-minded, but modest, men who with
a fine fortitude are sustaining the arduous job of
representing us !
For the nonce we will let slide the Delegations of Chunder
Boouaii, the Babu, and of Pict Van Swisselbeer, the
Boer, and of Jean Mordieu, the Canadian, and simi-
lar Anglo-Saxons.
Our eyes are fixed upon Our Delegation of Leading Jour-
nalists, the Representatives of the Press of Austral-
asia—
Please do not forget that.
In the persons of these, Our Representatives—
These educated, able, highly-trained, independent, broad-
minded journalists of the grand old British breed—
Leaders and Moulders of Thought,
Friends of the People,
Literary Beacons,
Journalistic Bright Lights,
Profound Thinkers,
Forecasters of Events and Intelligent Anticipators of the
Unexpected, the Unforeseen and the Unpleasant—
(These, I say, who represent the Press of Australasia)
In their persons, Camerados, we are Saving a high old
time !
!We are meeting (please grovel!) the King !
A Marquis shakes us by the hand !
We shake a leg in ducal ballrooms !
Our digestion is ruined at the Guildhall, and repaired for
us (at the British taxpayers’ expense) at Scarborough
or Bath !
We are acclaimed by the Great Unwashed !
All door are open to us, even the doors of the Alhambra
and the Polytechnic !
Brimstone Churchill unbends to us !
Drink and Ink are poured out before us 1
We are Empire-builders and World-shakers ; the Supreme
Its of Journalism !
Odes are composed at us—at US, camerados, who our-
selves have built the lofty rhyme !
Our Delegates are recognised in the streets, and perfect
strangers enthusiastically borrow half-crowns from
them—
(Fortunately WE do not actually feel that. It will go
down in the bill).
Our Delegates figure as the foremost interpreters of Aus-
tralia’s hopes and aspirations ; the true exponents of
a magnificent loyalty ; the corps d’elite of this young
Nation’s Thought!
They (and by implication, WE) are typical of all that is
best in Australian letters and Australasian jour-
nalism !
O silken and other bonds ! O Throne and Person ! O
Alfred Austin !
How glorious their—that is to say, our— lot!
How' splendid, how nobly, splendid, the picture we—that
is to say, they —present!
Camerados, I claim for them your enthusiasm ; I demand
for them your judiciously-placed, encouraging cheers !
I claim your sympathetic and respectful applause for
J. O. Fairfax, the profound thinker and brilliant
stylist of the S. M. Herald !
I claim it for Theodore Fink ; Theodore, scintillating
humorist and herald of the New and Ladylike
Journalism !
I claim it for G. A. Syme, essayist and passionate poet
from Yarra side !
I claim it for Mark Cohen, the great O’Moses philosophical
author and editor from Maoriland !
I claim it for A. Lovekin, Australia’s leading financial
writer and the pride of literary Perth !
And for many others also I claim it !
All men of small means, but large brains ; all working
pressmen ; all representatives of the Press of Aus-
tralasia !
Pioneers of the Inky Way !
Doing a great and altruistic work at the geratological
Conference in London—
Sustaining the arduous job of representing us, camerados!
US!!!
I ask—nay, I demand —that you give one large, unani-
mous, enthusiastic, world-shaking hail to these
public-spirited and self-sacrificing Press representa-
tives in geratological Conference assembled !
All together, camerados!
Hell— that is to say, Hail !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE. CHILDREN'S FOOD.’’
BILLIARDS LIMITED-
TEL. 1338
CITY.
PERPETUAL TOURNAMENTS FOR BONA FIDE AMATEURS.
ALL COMPETITORS TO BE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL OF COMPANY.
Prizes every fortnight, or as soon after as any Competition is won.
BILLIARDS: Break of 50, or biggest over 50 .. .. .. Ordpr value £9 9<s
J Break of 51 > or bi ?£ est ov er 51, off red ball .. .. ” Order’ value £3 sV
:: :: ::
BILLIARuS LTD. NOVELTY SNOOKER to be run monthly.
Three prizes—Orders value £4 45., £2 25., £1 Is., for the largest breaks made during the month. Entrance fee, 3d.
All Competitions started MONDAY, 7th inst. Morning:, Afternoon and Evening: Sessions. *
Full particulars from HARRY GRAY, Manager, 630 George Street.
*
"Sample
WriteTodm
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or the
pin-holed metal with Congo and end the trouble !
It won't take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it down !
Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to remind
.you of it.
We call Congo the “ NEVER-LEAK ROOF.” We mean it.
sSend for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured, by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London
For Sale by C. E Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
I Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
&
53SCS
PRIZES Value £1 750
IN THE 1 *
8-HOUR
ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 30, 1909.
Ist Prize, value £5OO ; 2nd Prize, value £100;
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. A. Moorkhouse, Henderson
Road, Alexandria, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November 4.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
A RAZOR YOU’D LIKE!
The PLUM RAZOR (with the keen shaving' edge)
that glides over the chin easily and comfortably
every, day of the year. The PLUM has an extra
hollow-ground blade that keeps sharp—allows quick
work, and wants little attention. We guarantee to
keep the PLUM in order for 2 years, free of charge.
?6s
Price 10/6,
Post Free to
any Address.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Leatner Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoieo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
SYDNEY WOOL MARKET.
To the Wool Growers of New South Wales 8 Queensland.
Dear Sirs,
. For some years past it has been manifest to the Brokers that the absence of a Wool Selling Brokers’
Association has in many respects operated most prejudicially to those interested in the welfare of the wSol trade
The existence of such a body in this State will serve to bring about an effective control of the wool trade generally
w,th uniformity of action, and the minimising and perhaps prevention, of a sudden drop in prices. Its usefulness’
however, will extend beyond this by accomplishing the acceleration or limitation of offerings, or the postponement
of sales for judicious periods, according to the varying conditions of the market. b postponement
These advantages can alone be secured by the establishment in each of the States of Associations, workin-
upon common lines, and acting in harmony for the welfare of Grower and Broker alike. No single Broker however
influential, and in fact no individual Association, could hope to accomplish this desirable end. *
It was found impossible to form in this State such an Association as that referred to, unless the Brokers could
?he th fn U W n y nsT t 0 abandon th ® consolidated rate, which in many respects is most unsatisfactory. They have
therefore, decided upon an amended commission rate, coupled with a separate charge for warehousing following a
practice which for many years has been in force in London, Victorian and South Australian markets, with the utmost
satisfaction to the Growers and Brokers, and which, there can be no hesitation in saying, is based upon sound com-
mercial lines. The charges made by the Association which existed some few years ago in New South Wales rn-ior to
the Brokers becoming disunited, were a consolidated charge of 3 per cent, on amounts of £5OO and over and 3i’per cent
on amounts under £5OO, and the PROPOSED NEW SCALE, ON THE AVERAGE, REPRESENTS A LOWER EATR
the other Stat™^ 0 Br ° ke ‘ S ’ therefore > have decided t 0 establish an Association, and to fall into line with
i W 'iL be S6en u hat ’- Whil ?. fc a consolidated charge has been abolished, a fair rate of commission has been adopted
coupled with a warehousing charge to compensate the Broker for insurance, handling storing and providing the
necessary show-room accommodation where wool can be exhibited to the best advantage. F °
Most satisfactory arrangements have been made with the Associations of Melbourne and Brisbane under which
the objects which have induced the local Brokers to form an Association will be realised to the fullest extent • and
the Brokers cannot too strongly impress upon the Growers the fact that the welfare of the trade in which the’v are
so much interested is to a very large extent wrapped up in the permanent establishment of a healthy Federal
organisation, whose objects we have indicated above. ueiai
Yours, etc.,
AUSTRALIAN MORTGAGE, LAND AND FINANCE CO., Lttl.
JOHN BRIDGE AND CO„ Ltd.
DALGETY AND CO., Ltd.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT AND CO., Ltd.
HARRISON, JONES AND DEVLIN, Ltd.
HILL, CLARK AND CO.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., Ltd
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, Ltd.
PITT, SON AND BADGERY, Ltd.
SCHUTE, BELL AND CO., Ltd.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON AND CO., Ltd.
The following are the charges which will rule practically throughout Australia from Ist July, 1909.
On clips £2OO and under 2J per cent.
~ ~ over £2OO and under £5OO .. 1J ~
~ ~ £5OO and over .. .. .. lj
etc wei «' hin S'- warehousing, lotting, re-packing sample bales, advertising, fire insurance, sale expenses,
Wool-offered for sale, but net-sold, Is. per bale, including warehousing charges.
Sydney, June 5, 1909.
SOI.
ANDREW McCEE’S
FAMOUS FRENCH BRIARS.
These {’refit smoking pipes give the hig-hest degree of smoking contentment, while the prices
will only add further pleasure to your smoke 501, 2/6 ; 506, 4/6, posted 3d. extra. Also
first quality unmounted 1/- pipes, bent or straight, in a variety of different shapes, posted
1/2 ; 10/9 per dozen post free. Satisfaction guaranteed with every purchase.
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST AND GENTLEMEN’S HAIRDRESSER,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, corner HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAY.
1
feejdfeg’g
MT- .ss €£3 crt> gr*. .-f*.
T......^! 14 rgeon
Thoughtful Treatment
of such everyday ailments as biliousness, sick headache and
indigestion, does not involve the added discomfort caused by
rash and drastic purgatives. Give Nature a chance.
Just try one or two Cockle’s Pills. They will give a fillip to the
sluggish liver. That, in nine cases out of ten, is the cause of all the
trouble^ Physicians have prescribed Cockle's Pills for more than one
hundred years.
c
Q
anf
|E|
111
m
PILLS.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L O U I S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL=DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
L' >
1/ ,
1
• n«
To be obtained from,
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
Have You Heard the
Amberol Records?
THE AMBEROL RECORDS are the very latest
improvement in phonography, for they play for
double the time of the popular two=minute Edison
Records. That means that many beautiful selections
which were previously impossible of reproduction can
now be given in their entirety.
The tone is wonderfully clear, pure and richly
musical. Ninety=four Amberol Records are now avail=
able, and the price is 2s. each throughout Australia, and
2s. 6d. each in New Zealand.
With the exception of the “ Gem,” all the Edison
Phonographs will take the Amberols, for the cylinder
is exactly the same size as the two=minute records,
but you require two special attachments—a differential
gear and a new reproducer.
The prices for these are
In Australia In New Zealand.
“STANDARD” - 255. 30s.
“HOME” - ■ 355. 455.
“TRIUMPH”
and other
Machines
355. 455.
Of course, the regular monthly lists of the two=
minute records will still be issued, but you are particu=
larly advised to hear the Amberols. Your nearest
dealer will be glad to let you hear some selections, and
we will forward full lists if you write.
They Play for FOUR MINUTES
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OP AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney'
SOS


Missing Friends.
SIMPSON". —Will whoever advertised during
Boer War for THOMAS SIMPSON, who
left South Australia 40 years ago with wife, son,
and four daughters, please communicate with
MRS. SIMPSON,
c/o Miss L. Prior, Springfontein,
0.R.C., South Africa.
Amusements.
Y M - C. A. HALL, SYDNEY,
1 " TUESDAY EVENING, ‘29th JUNE,
MR. W. HOPKINS JONES’
Concert Programme will include the names of
MISS ESTELLE MABEL WARD.
MISS JESSIE SHEATH.
MISS EMILIE MORROW.
MR. J. D. BRENAN MARSDEN.
MR. W. H. R. WOODS.
Accompanist .. .. MISS VERA BARNETT.
Tickets —35., 25., Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 7.45.
RETURN OF NELLIE STEWART
in David Belasco’s Costume Corned v Drama,
SWEET KITTY BELLATRS
Supported by her own Company, including MISS
ROSSLYN VAYNE and MISS MARJORIE CHARD,
MR. LANGHORNE BURTON, MR. FREDERICK
MOYES and MR. CLAUDE KING.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
CANNOT BE DESCRIBED. MUST BE SEEN.
BLAND HOLT & COMPANY
IX
THE GREAT RESCUE.
A Play the old folks love and the young folks enjoy.
Australian Life and Character Admirably Portrayed.
Box Plans at Elvy’s.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. No Extra Charges.
YH E LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION —Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, Clyde Meynell& John Gunn Season.
LAST NIGHTS, LAST NIGHTS,
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS
in THE FATAL WEDDING.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 20.
SPECIAL REVIVAL FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY,
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at S; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
. “THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
QLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
REAL ICE - SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY—IO to 12 a.m.', 3to 5 p.m.,
and 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 25.; CHILDREN, Morning and Afternoon
onlv. Is. SKATE HIRE, 6d.
SATURDAY MORNlNG—Children, Admission 6d.
THE GLAOIARIUM, George St., opp. Railway Station.
’Phone 492, Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
Pipes
Pipes
SPECIAL,
Silver
Mounted
NoN-iino Ever Like
Them Sliown lr\
Australia Before
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCONISTS
f SF
i Unable to
Procure
Ah Local
1 Apply At
Wholesale
Depot
P 231 Clarence
Street, Sydney.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
.
vUSTARP
3qe3
Bird’s
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mb. Habby Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
ROSINA CASSELLI and HER MIDGET WONDERS,
CHIHUAHUA DOGS OF MEXICO.
THE THREE LAURELS, Leading: Specialty Artists.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Quaint Comedians and Dancers.
FLORENCE and LILLIAN, Artistic Musical Experts.
MISS CISSIE CURLETTE, Mimic and Quaint Vocalist.
GRAHAM AND DENT, Popular Comedians.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI, Greatest Juggler Living.
BOVIS and DARLEY, Musical Sketch Artists.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS.
Mr. CULL PITT, a Droll Deceptionist, assisted by
Mdlle. ADELE, in a Pot-pourri of Tricks, Talk, etc.
THE SISTERS SPRIGHTLY, Comedienne Dancers.
TOM WOOTTWELL, Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THE MOST IMPORTANT DRAMATIC EVENT
OF THE YEAR.
MEYNELL & GUNN’S NEW ENGLISH COMPANY
IN
THE HYPOCRITES.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
The Romantic Musical Play,
THE KING OE CADONIA,
BY A NEW COMPANY OF EXCEPTIONAL
EXCELLENCE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 26,
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT and MISS BEATRICE DAY
—IN—
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
T H 1 1* *!p"®p® n H lr” l **T ß £l . MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Andkrsov
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 26
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in the Great Australian Drama
WHITE AUSTRALIA, or The Empty
Written by Randolph Bedford TH '
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING
MATINEES SATURDAYS at 2.30. ‘
Branscombe’s Scarlet Troubadours.
Those inimitable performances of Song, Jest, Dance
and Jollity are nightly received with enormous
enthusiasm by overflowing audiences.
Change of Programme Every Friday.
Reserved, 3s. ; Balcony, 2s. 6d. ; Admission, 2s. and Is
Plan and Day Sales Glen’s and Ronalds’ Central
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT.
| CE SKATING.
Melbourne GLACIARIUM,
EVERY
AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THEB O^ S V
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Chan"" of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture \\>.,chy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
MAKE BIG MONEY THIS WINTER
—WITH A CINEMATOGRAPH!
®.®
n 1
©
®
Qi
G>
O
Q)
G)©
Nothing affords .better opportunities
for men with small capital than the
Cinematograph.
The Field is Large.
We start you —furnishing complete
outfits and explicit instructions at a
surprisingly low cost.
We carry a very large stock of
machines, apparatus, and acces-
sories, comprising all the latest im-
provements.
We have 500,000 feet of Films
for sale or hire. Splendid subjects— all new.
We sell, let out on hire and repair anything
connected with Cinematographs.
Come and talk it over, or write to us.
JERDANS,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
CINEMATOGRAPH EXPERTS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
pop
cqa/hg apples
CUT TIAJ6
A BOON TO EVERY HOUSEWIFE.'
..THE UTILITY KNIFE..
PERFORMS SCORES OF TEDIOUS JOBS ABOUT THE KITCHEN
Requires No Skill In Using.
Does Almost Everything—from Sealing Fish to Paring Potatoes.
A Household Necessity. ,
Only 7d. Each, or 3 Knives for Is. 6d., Post Free
The Number of uses to which the "UTILITY” KNIFE,can be put is nothing
short of marvellous. You can scarcely credit the amount of work it will do
for you and the time it will save you in performing tedious jobs about the kitchen,
lobs which you are doing perhaps three times every day in the year. Let
your wife see that you are anxious to lessen her labours by buying this
WONDERFUL TOOL. Amongst a few of the numberless uses to which
it can be put are:—
1. PARING POTATOES.—This it will do in quarter the time it takes with an ordinary knife, ar.d.there is no loss.
2. REMOVES THE EYES OF POTATOES.—AII in a twinkling, and no waste either
S SCALING FISH.—A few rubs up and down the fish takes every scale clean off without disturbing the flesh in any way whatever.
4. FOR GRATING NUTMEGS. -It is specially adapted for this, and does it more effectively than any other tool yet seen.
5. FOR CORING APPLES. PEARS, fife —ln this respect it is a wonder. You simply push the sharper end of the knife righ‘
through the article and give it one turn. The core comes out bodily on withdrawing the knife.
6. TAKES THE EYES OUT OF PINEAPPLES. &c.
7, ''OR PEELING APPLES. PEARS. .»J Otk.r Frmt.t hu NO EQUAL.
8 FOR CUTTING VEGETABLES. CABBAGE FOR PICKLEING 6(o.
9. SUET CUTTER.
10. FOR CUTTING POTATO CHIPS
/J! these and scoresof other uses winch will be found for this splendid Tool for the Very Modest Sum of 7d,or three for 1/6, post free anywhere
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Dee Are He Hay Dee Hen Hoe You Gee H Tea
£5O
Given away in sums of £\ each to first 50 persons sending correct answer
to above puzzle of one word only, before 31st July, 1909. With your
answer, enclose Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of DREADNOUGHT PILLS The
best Liver, Kidney, Blood and Bowel regulator ever known. We are giving these presents
to introduce our Wonderful Pills. Names and addresses of winners posted to all com-
petitors. If less than 50 correct answers, the will be equally divided. Write at once,
as advt. may not appear again. The Empire Pill Co., Flinders St., Melbourne.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
ot
MOSQUITOES.
r£
■e
&
RtV
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AMD
REFRESHED
Iti
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- & 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Wholesale Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
The Curious Case of Eobinson.
The Australian dupes of “ H. G. Robinson ” have
the melancholy satisfaction of learning that he
was recently arrested in New York on a charge of
obtaining a small parcel of Marconi wireless
stock under false pretences as agent for “ Robin-
son and Robinson,” of that city. His defence is
a claim to be regarded merely as an “ordinary
broker, who has failed to make good.” When he
took this country down, three years ago, Robinson
didn’t call himself an ordinary broker, anyhow.
He travelled as agent for Munroe and Munroe,
of New York, whom, it was said, he did actually
represent, and to whom he transmitted the bulk
of the money he collected. On behalf of Munroe
and Munroe the voluble Mr. Robinson collected
some thousands of pounds (£50,000, it was said),
giving in return certificates for shares in
the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. of
Canada, with a promise that the scrip would
come along from Munroe and Munroe in
due course. Considering that the £1 shares
in the Co. were then quoted below par in
Canada, whereas Robinson was selling his certifs.
at the rate of 255. per share, the man didn’t pro-
mise and vow an impossible thing on behalf of
Munroe and Munroe. However, the scrip was
never forthcoming, “ except in two or three in-
stances.” Concerning which “ two or three
instances” the numerous Governments of Aus-
tralia have thus far refrained from making proper
inquiries. About 998 in every 1000 of the people
who handed over their cash to Robinson have
been whistling for their Marconi shares ever
since. Munroe and Munroe. they were told,
went bung in Noo Yark ere they could supply the
scrip that Robinson had sold for them. Never-
theless, some scrip, it is said, was supplied by
M. and M. to the Union Bank in Sydney, and the
Bank—in its capacity of the recognised medium
for the fulfilment of Robinson’s engagements —
served out this small consign merit of scrip to certain
fortunate purchasers. If that be so, the other 998
in 1000 certificate holders would like to know
how the Union Bank came to pay certain credit-
ors of Munroe and Munroe in full whilst an
army of defrauded creditors was seeking inform-
ation re the fate of its money. It is now up
to the Union Bank to throw some light on this
ancient mystery. Were Munroe and Munroe,
the dealers in Marconi Canadian wireless stock,
identical with Robinson and Robinson, or had
they a real existence on their own before they
went bung? The Union Bank, having distributed
a little scrip on account of the lot of money that
H. G. Robinson banked to the credit of Munroe
and Munroe, cannot disclaim all responsibility in
this matter. And now that “Robinson ” is said
to stand revealed as Hyman Rabinowitz, and has
been arrested on a charge of fraudulent dealing as
agent for himself, an explanation from his Aus-
tralian bankers would be of special interest.
+
“Kodak”: If the sin is not interrupted, and
Yissberra is inflicted on this bleeding country as
its Federal capital, we will be written down by
future historians as a people whose passion for
pumping amounted to a religion. It is already
acknowledged that Yassberra will have to pump
its drinking water, and its bnth water, and the
water to dilute its whisky, and to make its tea ;
likewise the liquid to put out its fires and disperse
rioters will have to be pumped, as will also the
dampness required to lay the dust and wash the
house-dog. A goodly part of the water for sewage
purposes will have to be pumped to Yassberra and
then pumped from it." What wetness isn’t
pumped to ’Berra will have to be taken there in
bottles, demijohns, flasks, barrels, buckets, tanks,
hats, gourds,. and water-skins. Peering with a
dim, spectacled eye into the distant future, I can
see a desert city, peopled by a dusty, fanatical
sect called Pumpers, whose idols are all shaped
like steam pumps, and who regard washing as
madness, and clean garments as sacrilege. Also,
I can hear the row of holy wars, when the rival
factions, who worship different sorts of pumps,
meet in the dry wilderness, and I can distinguish
with the ear of faith the howls of the high priests
as they batter one another with their pump-handle
croziers. It may take ’Berra a long time to pro-
duce the Pumpers, but they must inevitably
arrive if the Federal capital is placed there.
Last week in the Melbourne fish-shops barracouta
—common, tough, tasteless ’couta—were marked
up and sold at 9d. and Is. each ; yet those identi-
cal fish were sold in the City Council’s market
that morning at Is. per basket of 20 fish ! As food,
the beasties were comparatively dear at Is. each ;
yet the producer didn’t get Is. a basket ! One
Queenscliff fisherman toiled all the day before,
and caught seven basketsful—l4o fish. They
were sold by the private auctioneers, or dealers, at
Is. per basket—7s. the lot. Deduct 2s. lid.
freight, Is. Bd. market dues, IOJd. packing fees,
and 9d. commission, and the net return to the
producer was And the consumers paid from
£5 to £7 for them! The City Council will not
appoint its own auctioneers to honestly sell all
fish that comes into the market to the highest
bidder, any more than it will make provision for.
the hawking of cheap fruit, because to do so would
interfere with vested interests and the profits of
the cormorant landlords. But perhaps the
swindled citizens who paid £7 for 9Jd. worth of
fish may have a word or two to say to the City
Council some day.
♦
When it has a swindling baker to jump
on, the Law drags its heaviest hobnails from
under the bed, and wears them ; but when it
comes to deal with the milkman who slowly
murders the Australian baby, the same Law, for
some inscrutable reason, throws the hob-nails off,
and gets out its carpet slippers. On one day re-
cently in Sydney the baker and the milkman
were “up,” and the Law wore the foot-gear usual
in such cases. The baker, being per loaf
short, was fined so much for every loaf that the
Law could lay hands on, in all, £162; the milk-
man was fined £lO, and‘growled at even that. If
he had had a sea of milk and had doctored the
lot, it would still have been £lO, even though he
might have cleared the whole £lO out of that one
morning’s swindle. Certainly, even if the Court
made it £lOO, the swindler who cared to risk it
could get it back in 10 mornings. In fact, there
is only one remark of which a Court is capable
that this sort of swindler can’t pass on to his
customers, and that is plain, cold, whitewashed
j>ig-


“DAD’S AND DAN.”
■ The New Wayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
R’S
y^w***^
rQaux I Rheumatic'
PILLS
SAFE AND
EFFECTUAL CURE
FOR COUt and
1
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
mm
Gout
Pills
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
&LAI R'S COUT and
Rheumatic pills elimi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
Mierefore PERFECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at i/I yi and 2/9.
BLAIR S HAVE SYOOB
fHE TEST OF TIME.
&
V
*
%
f
Australian
Established IS4&
HAS MONEY
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands"
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock <Tr Treasury BiUs o? any of the Au/
traiian States or New Zealand 9V AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of renavino-
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or eavment of anv fine'
Directors— The Hon. A. W Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman • Beniamin
0 feiv h S?„° n - “■ L ' C ; ■J"’ «”■ *• M.L.C.: The H in. Wi„“~b.flC£a”
STREET,
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used e xcl u si vel y in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
S2-Aims'o L' the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
a* ii *l ave W orld’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue,
lens how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing
Skate Co., 501 Wells Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., ijveroool.
Ball-
“RICHARDSON
sUf CHICAGO ffiMit
£2OO
FOR 2 WORDS.
GAN YOU
HIT THE
i WE DON’T REQUIRE YOU TO SELL GOODS
If you are bright you may win £2OO, which we
I intend to give away for correct answers to this
| puzzle. If you can supply the two missing
> words that the picture represents, write us at
1 once, enclosing 2d. Stamp, for reply. If you
| are right we will at once send you the prize.
If more than one correct answer is received
■ the £2OO will be divided evenly. This is
[ worth trying for, as the puzzle is not hard.
' Setld answer at once, enclosing the 2d. stamp
i for reply. Only one reply from a family
I allowed. National Publishing Co.,
89 Ash Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Ho Mother NMVthovflc
seut cm revest.
dprepress/v ? to/eto/y edapteto to toe growfip to/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food N?l
from 6/rt/z So 3moofrs
Milk Food N°2
from 3 to 6 months
Malted Food N? 3
from 6 monfrs up mm's.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
m AU
n
it acts like a charm in
DIARRHEA
ft
Oty or*
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative m Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago. &c.
—lt is extensively used w Medical Men m their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, have !>ive.n
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the world , in bottles , Is. 1 ±d. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each.
WARNING.— Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN S CHLORODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Kocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman's Chlorodyne, Ltd., London, S.E., Eng’ and
OF AUp KINDS
a.re q.uiekly cured by
THE COUGH REMEDY
WITH THE
BEST REPUTATION^
POWELLS
BALSAM-ANISEED
Of all Chemists and Stores. Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales
and Queensland— ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
<?■
m
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Bengers Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ 0.K.” writes :
The gravity with which the utterances of Burns,
Johnson, Jeffries, and Hugh Mclntosh—especially
Mclntosh are published in the press almost per-
suades me the glorious English-speaking race has lost
its sense of humor, and is in a fair way to lose its reason.
Listed to the latest news of Mclntosh the Magnificent,
furnished to mankind by the New. York American: —
“ The Australian showman yesterday received a cable
from Burns: ‘Post £5OOO immediately with the N.Y.A.
for me to bind a match with Johnson, Ketchell, or Kauf-
mann. . . If necessary, I will meet all three, and the
money goes as a guarantee that I will fight them, first
come first served, a month separating each match.
V >l ?T n 7 ® l V' ns - ” Then comes the alleged statement
of Mclntosh re the question of the mighty Jeffries
meeting* the great Johnson in a gate-money guarantee
match. ‘My boy, it’s a cert. I tell you I have had a talk
with the great retired champion, and he has given me his
word that he will get into shape, and that he will fight
just as sure as the sun rises. He will fight and I hope to
land the match. I have engaged offices in New York,
and that looks as if I were serious and had some hopes of
bringing it about, doesn’t it? The fight is a cert.”
nu a u t5 ew York American informs the world that
Mr. Mclntosh stands prepared to stage the fights, or
in the United States, Australia, France, or Kng-
It™* Amidst the roars of jubilation excited by this
thrilling news, nobody hears the still, small voice of the
cynic remarking “ Rats! ” If fights for “championships ”
were tragedies, or even dramas, the actors would come
together without all this preliminary bunkum, but being
only farcical comedies, they must be “presented” by an
entrepreneur who dauntlessly stands prepared to stage
thein wheresoever the dollars promise to fly thickest,
hx-champion Jeffries is an enormously bulky man who
probably couldn’t reduce his tonnage by five stone without
losing something more than flesh in the process. A fat
man doesn t necessarily get himself fit by getting himself
ever so much thinner. As for the statement that Burns
has posted £5OOO as a “guarantee” that he will fight
three men within the space of two months and three
nays, it means just anything or nothing. It certainly
doesn t mean that Tahmmy aforesaid is prepared to risk
the loss of £5OOO in three different matches—a loss of
£15,000 in all. Or that he will risk the loss of £5OOO in
one match. Or risk any loss. These pugilistic gentry
only give guarantees in consideration of the guarantees
.they receive. And any one of them, of course, would
(Undertake to fight onqe a, week for three months, barring
accidents, if a fat-headed: public could be guaranteed to
find enough gate money to enable the entrepreneur to
guarantee large sums in payment to the performers. The
. ? nlyperson who actually “ puts up” money for a prize fight
i$ the public nowadays. In London the public is repre-
sented by a few hundred johnnies of the National Sporting
C üb, and on the onlyoccasion when Burns fought for the
Club s entertainment he waited for the Club’s money to
be planked down ere he would put up his hands. If he
were prepared to risk £3OOO in a fight with Johnson at the
N.S.C., the Club would cover his stake, and agree to give
the whole £6OOO to the winner. But he’s not looking for
risks. Professional pugilists and wrastlers are only look-
ing for: ‘mugs” and the public is the “mug” every
time.


MICK. SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
CANT
B
BEAT
LEADING
HOUSE ™
>Sporting' Goods
Fishing' Tackle &, Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Special Snap
and Pegs.
5 x 12 Clap or Ground Nets, 22/6 each.
5 x 15 do. do. 27/6 each.
We also carry in stock Rabbit Nets, Fruit
Tree Netting, and all Net Sundries.
Bridles
SEND FOR OUR NET PRICE LIST-POST FREE.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s Od posted. Merrie
England, 9d. llow to Get Rich, Is posted. Dit. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Od. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book uy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Od each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Uf-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuooic, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighror Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Caryer’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Gd. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is Gd.
God and My Neighror, sd. Britain for tiie
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Gd. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, lsGd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Payees.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a,delicacy in consulting- their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition'of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, Ac., with full directions,
1 s posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
llow to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Ethjuette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man llis Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is post ed. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Everyman His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ llandyiSook, Is 3d. Mac-
fallen’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s fid. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, ls6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s fid posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No SVlatter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court oe England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing”, is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, is 2d. Moore’s Universal;
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth!
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
;ls post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
7l l '" V | ! "' UJJ ' ;CC l ? Colds ™ tlle Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allayinv Irritation
n the Ihroat and giving Strength to the Voice and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, no? Consump’
mn o develop Consumption is not known where “Coughs ’ have, on their first appearance, been properlv treated with this
“ureTcertffin. * “> '“ “ be S mnin S’ a do “ or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
Cmall Size, 2/6; Large Size, 46. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
msm PILLS ■■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by 'a
written guarantee for
veiro.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstation of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and p-pu'ar
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee bv the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all" who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO=AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. G.P.0., Sydney, fJ.S W.
&he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
*
It
m
«
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Xoveltjes
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedintely
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
Soid by all Chemists.


*'
DIGESTIVE
NEW 015(01
FOB
COUO HS
COLDS Z,
COMSD/'/PT/OM
TABIiLES
DIGEST WHAT
YOU
EAT
Yes! Miss
DB SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
for COUGHS COLDS & CONSUMPTION
is the most effective Remedy
on the market. And it’s pleasant to take.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
rVize Medals.
Works: England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt, they glide
over the roughest
i paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil'.
Attention s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Ser es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Beauty’s Favourite,
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acKnowledged and honoured
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
sßin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
EARS
Matchless for the Complexion*
A Song of Waste Miles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Undoubtedly the day of larjje holdings is doomed.
Universal experience Jias proved that no country can
progress or he held safe from invasion where population
is sparse and the lands are not utilised. Our future
prosperity is vitally dependent, on the sort of use to which
we put our lands. At present they are, comparatively
speaking-, both unused and unoccupied.— Melbourne Aon.
Europe has 111 persons per square mile ; Asia has 55 ;
America possesses 10; Australia thinks it can get along
with about 11.— Dreary fact.
Miles ;
Square miles !
From the Leeuwin up to Cook town, where the
blue Pacific smiles;
Then from Cape Howe’s windy corner, as a fast
relay of crows
Might proceed across the Island, to the coasts the
pearler knows
There are miles —miles—miles !
Empty, aching, weary miles,
Where the land is sunk in silence, and the eagle
in the blue
Is the only living creature. And this land belongs
to YOU!
Miles !
Rich miles !
Here and there the fat merinoes tended by the
bush exiles,
Or the sullen, lowing cattle being driven from the
lands
Where the primal peace of ages like a god’s com-
pelling hands
Keeps the miles—miles—miles,
Keeps the lone, accursed miles
In a dreadful trance eternal, which no man may
ever dare
To disturb with joyous labor, and the gleaming,
cleaving share.
Miles!
Dead miles !
Plain and upland, hill and river. In the moun-
tains’ dim defiles
Where the track goes climbing upward, and the
rails dive thro’ the cloud,
Naught but lone bush echoes answer to the mail-
train, fierce and loud,
Shouting: “ Miles—miles—miles!
I have come five hundred miles !
See ! I conquer time and distance with my heart
of flame and steam,
And I link men’s souls together in this continental
dream ! ”
Miles !
Swift miles!
Oh ! the quick wheels’ busy clatter oft a pilgrim-
age beguiles;
For they chatter to the Spaces, and the blank and
foolish plains
Seem tq hearken to the message of the living,
racing trains,
Crying : “ Miles—miles—miles !
Oh ! you sad and lonely miles,
You have waited long the sower and the crops of
golden grain,
But you shall not wait much longer ! This I tell
you—l, the Train ! ”
Miles !
New miles !
Resurrected with some trouble from the depart-
mental files;
Dragged from under grazing leases, chiselled off
the vast estates
With some chilled-steel legislation while the
British ploughman waits.
Oh ! the miles—miles—miles
Are in want of John and Gil'jj,
And the sound of life and laughter. ’Tis the
people of the farm
Who will answer when the bugles sound their
resonant alarm.)
Miles !
Strong miles !
Filled with independent yeomen, spite of all the
tricks and wiles
Of the squatter’s politician and the penny-hungry
press
Who would keep the sun-bathed outlands in their
sheep-clad idleness;
Busy miles—miles—miles
That in dusty maps and files
Now are lying quite forgotten. (This vast treasure
of the Lord
We would value not so lightly had we won it with
the sword !)
Miles !
Gift miles !
Till the eye and mind are weary ! Largest of the
Blessed Isles—
It is ours can we but hold it when the crouching
twelve-inch gun
Hurls its screaming challenge inland. Ere the
fight is lost or won.
The long miles—miles—miles—
Our wide homeland’s sunnv miles
Will be sacred to Australians. (Oh ! along the
plain’s dim marge
See the first fruits of the battle ! ’Tis the tide-
mark of the charge !)
Miles !
Grim miles!
Hear the rattle of the limbers in the shadowy
defiles ;
Hear the angry, muttered order and the sullen
tramp of feet !
’Tis an army going inland ! ’ Tis the national
retreat!
Oh, the miles—miles—miles ! .
Oh, the dark, death-haunted miles!
With the sound of cannonading dying slowly with
the day,
While the beaten trudge exhausted on their blind
and hopeless way.
Miles!
Lost miles !
Shall our armies from the westward ever pass
these forest aisles
To win back our boundless birthright in the reek-
ings lusts of war.
Or to die—lest we be laughed at for our empty
boasts of yore :
Silent miles—miles—miles !
Silent, waiting, fateful miles!
When your history is written, shall the future
student trace
Through the years the selfish folly of a vanished
Southern race ?
N. S. W.
KODAK.
The Stronger Circumstance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T HEN Kellingham brought his young
V * wife from Singapore to Sukadana he
made the biggest mistake that white
man ever made. So Langton, of the East Indian
Navigation Co., told me.
Kauffner, the Dutch doctor, had tried to dis-
suade Kellingham from bringing his wife over at
all. “Tink,” he said, “der fever, der snaigs, der
musgedoes, der loneliness. Gott, she will go
madt! ” But Kellingham was obdurate ; she had
plenty of spirit, he maintained, and it was her
wish to try the life for a time. If it didn’t suit
her—well, she could go back by the next boat.
“ Yes,” grunted the doctor, “ und how long she
have to wait? Der boat bring her ; in one week
she vos tired, seeck ; she want to go way ; can’t, no
boat—two, four, eight weeks she might wait. Den
she go madt.”
He shook his large, round head disapprovingly,
so that the drops of perspiration that dewed his
forehead fell in a shower upon the matting; he
mopped his face with a large handkerchief, and
left the house muttering to himself.
In spite of the doctor’s fears, however, Mrs.
Kellingham did not die. She had seen two
monthly steamers depart without evincing the
slightest inclination to leave Sukadana. The
novelty and freshness interested her, and the
good-natured doctor she shocked horribly by
walking unattended among the natives in their
own quarter. They interested and amused her,
and she said it kept her busy hunting out sick
babies and commending them to his tender charge.
Kellingham was devoted to his wife, and was
gratified with her evident satisfaction with her
lot, and tried to make things as comfortable as
possible.
When she had recovered from the shock of
finding half her clothes ruined by blue mould, and
her leather writing pad a mass of foul-smelling
fungus, she began to adapt herself to her surround-
ings, and wrote on the bare table. The doctor
called daily, and fussed about her health, and gave
her firm injunctions as to diet, all of which she
good-humoredly followed.
One evening she was sitting on the verandah of
their bungalow, watching the changing picture of
the island-studded bay, when a dignified old
native passed on his way to the servants’quarters.
He saluted his master respectfully, and fixed a
pair of cunning yellow eyes on the face of the
woman in the chair.
“Howard, ’ said Mrs. Kellingham, as the man
disappeared, “ who is that man? He makes my
flesh creep. When lam about on the plantation
he stares at me so fixedly that I get frightened. I
wish you would dismiss him.”
“ What nonsense, girlie!” replied Kellingham,
easily. “ That’s old Rad war Nal ; he’s probably
never seen a white woman before you came. I
couldn't dismiss him. He’s one of the best men I
have. Besides, he has some standing among his
people, and if I were to dismiss him the others
would leave in a body. They’re a curious lot of
beggars, these niggers. Don’t let it worry you.
If he annoys you again I’ll speak to him about it.”
Then, being a man whom it was difficult to
interest in the affairs of others, he let the matter
escape his notice, till one evening, on returning
from the plantation, he heard his wife’s voice
raised in a cry for help. He dashed up the steps
and into the room. Mrs. Kellingham was crouching
in a corner, wild-eyed with terror, whilst, perfectly
motionless before her, stood Rad war Nal, gazing
fixedly into .her eyes. Kellingham sprang for-
ward blind with rage, and seizing the native by
the loin cloth, threw him against the doorpost.
The flimsy support crashed to splinters, and the
man fell heavily, but immediately regained his
feet and drew his kris. Mrs. Kellingham shrieked
and fainted. Kellingham, looking about for a
weapon, saw hanging on the wall a heavy Indian
tulwar, and with it made a savage slash at the
shaven skull. The heavy blade shore through the
flimsy kris, and crashed into the native’s head.
He fell forward like a log, the blood gushing out
and staining the snowy matting.
Strange to say, the old man lived in spite of the
noxious remedies employed by his friends to heal
his wound. In fact, he recovered so fast that in a
month he was qualified to plot the destruction of
the house of Kellingham ; and he was no poor
plotter. Deep in that sabre-scarred skull lurked
a fine capacity for hatred.
Down in the native village men whispered
strange things of Rad\yiir Nal. It was said that
he could afflict a man with leprosy in a single
night, or send him wandering into the jungle a
raving maniac. People who crossed him fell into
a strange sickness and gradually sank into coma,
and so died. Therefore the old man was respected
to a point of what might have been veneration,
had it not been terror.
The doctor urged Kellingham to send his wife
away at once by the next boat.
“ Mein Gott ! ” he cried, “you know nod dese
people. Dey have der schlyness of der Devil.
Sendt her away before it was too late. Tink you
he will forget what you have done to him? No,
not if you was wait twenty years. Better you
yourself go too, and not come back.”
This last sentence was unfortunate, for it
roused in Kellingham all the dogged thickheaded-
ness of the English. Run away from a blessed
gibbering old nigger medicine man ! Not he! If
he couldn’t take care of his wife, why did anyone
think he married her? The doctor merely
shrugged his great shoulders and answered, “It
was a pi tee, a great pi tee, you did nod hit him a
little harder dat day.”
Then as the days passed Kellingham noticed a
change in his wife. She grew languid and irri-
table, and he began to have fears that the climate
was too much for her, and reproached himself for
keeping her there so long. Also she began rapidly
to lose her good looks, and seemed quite indifferent
to the fact. Worst sign of all, she slept a deep.
(Continued on next page.)


HEALTH WRECKED BY
CONSTIPATION
A Constant Sufferer for 7 Years—Martyr to Pains
in the Back —Other Treatments Prove Useless.
“ If I were asked to specify the
disease or ailment of the day, I
should unhesitatingly answer—
‘ CONSTIPATION.’ ”
So says one of the greatest medical writers of
the present day. Where Constipation exists, the
drains which Nature has provided to clear the
body of its impurities are out of order, and
the impurities are left in the body. The result is
that every organ of the body is rendered foul.
The liver and digestive organs become clogged
and unable to fulfil their proper functions; the
appetite is destroyed; the head aches and feels
dull and heavy; there is heat and feverishness;
a dreary don’t-care-about-anything ” feeling;
a sensation of irritability with everybody and
everything. So effective are Bile Beans for Con-
stipation that in cases where this ailment has
been so neglected that it has resulted in
stoppage of the bowels, they have, nevertheless, brought about a complete cure.
“From a state of chronic suffering to a life of health and happiness,” describes the great
change Bile Beans made in Mrs. M. Dougan, of 102 Victoria Street, Lewisham, Sydney.
“For over seven years,” writes Mrs. Dougan, “I was a great sufferer from Con-
stipation. In consequence of the pains across the small of my back, and general weakness,
I was forced to give up different employments. I became so bad that I was laid up in bed
for days. Different medicines were tried, but they had very little effect. I was beginning
to think that it was useless trying any more of these 4 remedies,’ as I was paying away money without
getting relief. About twelve months ago a friend of my husband’s came on a visit from Gym pie, and
advised me to give Bile Beans a trial. I purchased a box of the Beans, and underwent a course, with the
very best results. Bile Beans are the best medicine I have ever used, and I have great pleasure in
recommending them.
Bile Beans are tlxe standard remedy for Biliousness,
Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Anaemia, Liver
Chill, Susceptibility to Colds, and all Liver and Stomach
Ailments. 1/1$ and 2/9 per box, of all Chemists and Stores.
m^me
I
a
o
/V
a
B
a
A
N
O
N
a
D
O
S
a.
Doctors Enthusiastic Over New Discovery.
DR. HARTMANN SOLVES NEURASTHENIC MYSTERY.
Explains the Brilliant Success of the New Treatment for Nerve Wrecks.
How Nervous Disorders are Cured by Brain Feeding.
“ Neurasthenia has been the Central Africa of medicine
—an unexplored territory into which few men enter.”
These words are eloquent testimony to.the great mystery
that surrounds the most common of human ailments.
We are able, however, to chronicle the fact that at
least one scientist has penetrated to the heart of that
mystery, and has brought us back a warning and—health.
There can be no more fascinating study than the study
of that great mysterious force the ordinary worker is
content to call “ the nervous system.” The hidden force
that guides our every action, that controls our hopes,
that decides our ambitions and aspirations—it is this
power that we desire chained down and shielded ; then
we “ know ” our battle is over.
When it is remembered that the percentage of illness
grouped under “nervous weakness” or neurasthenia, is
higher than any other class of ailment, it will be realised
how serious a matter is dealt with here, and this will lend
an added greatness to Dr. Hartmann’s brilliant discovery.
The cure for neurasthenia, says Dr. Hartmann, is food
—brain food.
In these days of high-pressure living, with fierce social
and commercial competition, there is a strain put upon
the nervous system which not one man in a hundred can
healthily withstand.
The effect of the strain is shown either in extreme
irritability, lack of concentration, irresponsible thought,
and finally insanity. The story of the neurasthenic is,
perhaps, best told in the following chart, which shows
clearly the descent and how swiftly we are taken to the
end :
Sensitiveness
Restlessness | Irritability
Melancholia | Nervousness 1 Pessimism
Brain Fag | Insomnia
Mental Derangement
Suicidal Tendency
Somewhere in that chart the trouble of nine out of
every ten men and women is placed. It is the neurasthenic
chart, and once a person can recognise his symptoms
thereon, he should know that within him is the worst of
all diseases, a disease that unchecked can but lead to one
end —total collapse.
Dr. Hartmann’s cure for the neurasthenic is brain-feed-
ing. That this treatment, under Dr. Hartmann’s
method, is effective is proved by the splendid testimony
voluntarily affirmed by medical men in the highest
position.
This method of treatment, that Dr. Hartmann has
proved to be truly successful, may be thus detailed.
Food, when taken into the body, is used in various
ways for general nourishment. Certain foods are used for
fat production, others for the manufacture of bone ; and,
yet again, other parts of food are used up in the produc-
tion of brain tissue. Now, since all nervous affections
arise in the brain, and are caused by malnutrition— i.e.,
its starvation—the cure for neurasthenia lies in the ques-
tion of supplying the nerve centre with proper food to
allow due strengthening.
Now, in all foods —in some more than others—there are
brain-forming materials. They are scientifically known
as Mylene or Leci thine. Under natural conditions the
best food contains but a trace of this wonderful substance,
and, therefore, it is impossible in the ordinary way to
absorb into the system a sufficient quantity to effect an
appreciable improvement in a neurasthenic case.
“ It is, in brief, a question of administering a sufficient
supply of nerve-feeding elements to balance the rapid
waste of nerve tissue, caused by the unnatural strain of
present day life, by a rapid repair.”
The result of Dr. Hartmann’s brilliant experiments has
been to prepare a nerve food in which the brain-forming
element is sufficiently strong to at once have a beneficial
effect.
To his new discovery Dr. Hartmann has given the title
“ Antineurasthin,” and already most remarkable cures
have been effected by its administration.
Antineurasthin is a preparation which contains all the
nerve-building materials “Lecithine,” in a highly con-
centrated form ; it is easily assimilated, and the benefits
it confers are lasting. It has, therefore, nothing in com-
mon with medicines, drugs, or other stimulants —it is
the natural nerve food which nourishes the nerve system
independently of the body. To everyone requiring a
genuine tonic—to the man whose nerves have become
unstrung through business worries, to the woman who
has become supersensitive or morbid—this simple remedy
will prove an inestimable benefit.
The following testimony will certainly interest those
who are nervous patients. It comes from one of the
most brilliant physicians in Europe—Dr. Guiseppe Lap-
poni, Physician-in-Ordinary to his Holiness the Pope :
“ Rome.
“Dear Sir, —I made trial in my private practice of
Antineurasthin, and shall prescribe it henceforward, as it
is an admirable agent for toning and strengthening the
nervous system. I take the liberty of congratulating
you on your discovery.
(Signed) “Dr. GUISEPPE LAPPONI,
“ Physician-in-Ordinary to his Holiness Pope Pius X.”
This is praise indeed, and the most satisfactory feature
of Dr. Hartmann’s success is that the congratulation of
his medical confreres is overwhelmingly supported by' the
testimony of actual users of Antineurasthin.
The fact cannot be too strongly impressed upon the
minds of readers that nervous disorder, no matter how
slight, must not be neglected or played with. The small
worry' of to-day becomes the morbid melancholia or break-
down of to-morrow. It is useless to endeavor to seek
temporary stimulation in chemical or so-called tonics,
which can have but a serious after effect—a Loss of
Nervous Force.
Nervous disorders must be cured, and if, on once
glancing at the chart given, you recognise your trouble,
we advise you to at once investigate the claims of
Antineurasthin.
On sending eightpence in stamps of any' Australasian
State to the wholesale distributor, H. A. Goddard, Eagle
Street, Brisbane, Queensland, a sample supply of Anti-
neurasthin, and in addition a copy of an interesting
treatise on “Nervous Disorders,” as well as Dr. Kuhner’s
pamphlet, will be forwarded.
unnatural sleep for hours on end. No sooner did
she sit down in a chair than she fell asleep, and
slept until awakened by the servants, and each
day the task of awakening her was more difficult.
Kellingham began to get really alarmed, and
sent down for the doctor. When he had made his
examination he drew Kellingham outside and
whispered a few words.
“ What damn nonsense ! ” said the other.
“What do you mean by trying to frighten me
with tales of nigger witchcraft? ”
The Hollander shrugged his shoulders. “You
will see,” he replied. “In two days she will nod
know you, nor you her, and she will run aboudt
and cry like a leedle child. Den if der boat not
come and take her away, she die.”
How long Kellingham sat there with his face
resting on his folded arms he did not know ; but
when at last he rose it was far into the night.
A week later, as they stood by the grave side
watching the brown soil cover the rude coffin, one
of the men pointed seaward. A faint blur of
smoke appeared on the horizon, proclaiming the
arrival of the steamer.
Again the doctor urged Kellingham to go. But
the steamer left next day without the English-
man, and the doctor gazed after the diminishing
hull and shook his head.
* * ■* *
One night Kellingham was awakened by a faint
sound in the little garden. So faint was it that as
he sat up in bed he almost doubted his senses ; but
he drew his revolver from under the pillow and
got quietly out of bed and slipped into a pair of
straw bath shoes. No man walks a yard at night
in Borneo barefooted, because of scorpions and
spiders. As he placed a foot in one of the shoes he
felt a slight prick in the sole, but, in his excite-
ment, did not heed it.
In an instant he was at the door, and could dis-
cern a dark form creeping towards the gate. It
was a long shot, and the light was bad,
but he fired. Immediately following the report
came the loud smack as the 450 bullet struck, and
the figure sprang forward and fell on the grass
snatching with quivering fingers at the dead
leaves. With trembling hands Kellingham lit a
lantern and ran out to the fallen man. It was
Radwar Nal, now past all thoughts of revenge.
Feeling rather shaken, he returned to the house
and mixed himself some brandy and water, and
sat up to await daylight.
In the evening he went down to the doctor’s
bungalow and related what had happened.
And as they drank more brandy and water he
suddenly began to rub his foot on the floor. “It
must have been that dashed insect,” he said,
recollecting the sting he had felt when he had put
on his slippers in the night.
“What insecdt?” queried the doctor, and
Kellingham mentioned the occurrence, scratching
his foot vigorously the while.
The little man became suddenly grave. This
stolid Netherlander was doing some rapid think-
ing. “ Tell me,” he said, his face suddenly pale ;
“did you shoot dat man when he was coming or
going, befront or behindt ? ”
“ He was just clearing out,” said Kellingham ;
“ I shot him in the back. It was so deuced dark,
you know>’ But the doctor had heard enough.
“ To bed at once,” he said, “or it will be too
late. My friendt, I believe he has done for you,
too. You shoot him in the back ? Den he was
going away. He had been. He had put some-
thing in der sole of your slipper and was trying to
get away.”
They got him to bed somehow. By two o’clock
the doctor’s supply of morphia was finished, and
it took three white men and two natives to hold
him down. But when morning dawned the pain
gradually ceased.
“ Narrow shave, doctor,” he said weakly. Poor
wretch, he thought his agony was over. The
doctor turned away so that the sick man might not
see his face.
That afternoon he sent down and asked the
magistrate and the storekeeper to come up and
bring with them some rope, new manila.
“ Hullo, you chaps,” said Kellingham when the
two men came in ; “come up to see the invalid,
eh ? I’ll soon ” Then he sat up in bed, his
eyes starting from his head with fear, while great
beads of sweat gathered upon his forehead. “My
God,” he gasped, “it’s starting again.”
The doctor made a sign to the other two, and
they flung themselves upon him and bound him
to the bed with the rope ; but almost before he was
secured he raved and blasphemed horribly, biting
his tongue in his agony. The others could
stand it no longer and left the house; but the
Dutch doctor kept his place beside the bed,- and
suffered with his teeth set hard and his great bald
head wet with the perspiration of horror.
In a momentary gleam of consciousness, as he
wiped the bloody froth from the grim white set
face, he heard Kellingham say almost in a
whisper, “Shoot me, for Heaven’s sake, Doc., if
you’re human.” The Dutchman turned away ;
if he saw that look of entreaty again, he believed
he would have to do it. And on second thoughts,
why should he not ?
He went out on the verandah and looked across
the valley over blue hill and forest and spark-
ling starlit sea. Kellingham could not recover,
yet he might live for another week and suffer all
the torture that human brain could devise. And
when the Hollander thought of those nights
when the poor wretch would be bound to his bed
of torture he made up his mind. He looked
towards the grave beneath the sandalwoods.
“You will understand and forgive,” he mur-
mured.” “Ido it for der best.”
But when he entered the light, his kindly face
was very hard ; like the face of a man to whom is
left only one dreadful alternative.
The figure on the bed twisted and writhed
beneath the bonds and moaned unceasingly. On
the table a small American clock ticked like a
large clanking insect.
. The doctor looked at the white dial, and saw
that it was nearly four o’clock in the morning.
He rose and got out his medicine chest and
searched among the contents, shaking his head
and muttering to himself as he examined the vari-
ous phials. Finally he drew out one that con-
tained a little liquid, and poured the contents into
a measure.
Kellingham was rapidly regaining consciousness
as the pain abated, and when the doctor placed
his arm beneath his head he smiled feebly in
recognition. “ I think I’ll be able to sleep soon,”
he murmured faintly, “and then I’ll be allright.”
“Drink this,” commanded the doctor, “and
you’ll be all right.”
Kellingham drank, and coughed once.
The doctor stood on the verandah, watching
the magistrate climb the steep path. When he
reached the gate he called out, “How is he this
morning ? ”
“Dead,” replied the doctor, briefly.
“ The best thing for him, poor devil,” said the
other; “I suppose it’s fate.”
And the doctor spoke in a whisper to himself,
as he said, “No, my friendt, it was nod fate; it
was cyanide of potassium. In this damn country
cyanide of potassium is kinder than fate.”
ASTRADES.
You’re a Liar.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PLAIN lying is a simple art,
As every statesman knows ;
A medicine to ease the heart,
And not, as some suppose,
A dreadful, cankerous disease,
Like murder, rapine, theft—
The world were all too grey to please
If only truth were left.
When first above the brutish herd
The gods exalted man,
His innocence is still inferred
In every preacher’s plan ;
But, if they told the actual truth,
Man started from the sty,
And cut his earliest wisdom tooth
When he began to lie.
Greek art was all a glorious lie,
And so was Roman law ;
Old Israel’s prophets wagged a sly,
Prevaricating jaw.
On lies the olden world was fed,
On lies the new world rose ;
Lies halo round the ancient’s head,
And paint the ancient’s nose.
The grocer sells me varied lies,
Lies are my beef and bread ;
Twin lies of glass conceal my eyes,
A lie is on my head.
All trade is framed and built on lies,
They its foundations be,
And the religious fable vies
With other perjuree.
So always when I chance to die,
With pomp and show they spread
The hollow, black, funereal lie
Above my fallen head ;
To prove I’m dead they sign a scroll,
Then raise a stone to say
I’m only sleeping in a hole
To wake on Judgment Day.
MAORILAND.
D. M. W.
The Boxer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOU’RE a liar.”
“ You’re another.”
“ Biff, bang, swish, wop, ugh ! ”
The floor rose up, the ceiling came down, and
then followed a brief period of blissful uncon-
sciousness.
When Tonneler came to he was very ill—very
ill indeed. Something he had had for lunch dis-
agreed with him, surely, or was it a return of the
beastly influenza? Why did he ache all over ?
What was the matter with his jaw?
These questions crossed his mind lazily as he lay
partly propped against a wall—an extremely hard
wall. With some difficulty he opened one
eye—there seemed to be a weight on the other—
and was shocked to find himself in his clothes.
“ How is it, Tonneler?” came a voice, appar-
ently from someone telephoning at least a thou-
sand miles away.
“I’m sorry I got in so hard, old man, ” the voice
went on ; “but you know you were looking for it.”
Memory returned with a rush, and Tonneler,
clerk in the wool store, looked up to see Gorman,
the presser, bending over him with a wet towel in
one hand and a glass of water in the other.
“You’re a brutal beast, Gorman,” he mur-
mured faintly. “You have no idea of fair play.
Why, I’d just put my hands.up and ”
“ And I had the good luck to get in first,” said
Gorman, with a half-apologetic laugh. “I
couldn’t afford to stand off and spar with a
scienced man like you ; now, could I ? ”
Tonneler did not reply. Pushing aside the
outstretched hand, he crawled slowly to his feet,
making a sudden clutch at the wall as the room
swam around him at a dizzy pace. He felt very
wretched and very savage.
“Look here, Mr. Tonneler,” said the presser;
“ I’m very sorry I marked you. Don’t let’s have
any ill-feeling over it.”
“You go to Hell !” was the brief retort, and
Tonneler staggered away to the sink on the
ground floor to wash off some of the traces of the
combat.
He was deeply humiliated. Was he not known
and respected as one of the best amateur boxers
in the State ? Had he not “put ’em on ” with the
crack American welterweight, and shaped more
than well ? And then to be taken down in this
fashion by an ordinary sort of individual like
Gorman, who never boxed, and always declined to
take part in the lunch-time spars ! It was too
much. It called for vengeance, and vengeance of
no uncertain sort.
From that time forth, Tonneler put himself in
active training. He ran five miles in the morn-
ing and ten in the evening to improve his wind.
He wore out three sets of punching-balls. He
skipped in his bedroom until the ceiling of the
room beneath collapsed under the strain. He
haunted the professional training rooms, and prof-
fered his services as partner to all the biggest
men in the game, with the result that he lost
some of his teeth and acquired the crumpled ear
of the regular pug. But he stuck to his task with
a determination worthy of a better cause, and in
six months’ time felt himself justified in going
down to presser Gorman and grossly insulting
him.
Tonneler was outed in one hit. Gorman hit
him before he was through with the insult. His
hardly-acquired skill was never given a chance to
display itself. Worst of all, he “ got the bullet ”
from the boss, who chanced to be a witness of the
whole occurrence, and had heard of the “ama-
teur’s” preparations.
No, Gorman was not an ex-champion boxer or
anything of the sort. He was a very common-
place individual, who always hit early.
Tonneler may be seen waving the towel and
squirting water over willin’ lads of seventh-rate
ability who put up “preliminaries.” He has
never boxed since.
PARKSIDE.


iitiHlli
CO
%
ff/t
wm
m
n\UUUUUUI«U«»Ut
The Leader of Them All!
That is, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla; not
some other kind, but “Ayer’s.”
This grand old family medicine
has stood the test for over sixty
years. That’s the kind you
should take. You cannot afford
to experiment, your health is
too precious.
You may not now be really ill
from some well-defined disease, and yet
you know you are all run down, your
nerves are unstrung, and you feel weak
and discouraged.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
is the strongest and best medicine you can
take to remove this tired and exhausted
feeling. It brings cheer, hope, courage.
__ As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disap-
point you. De sure that you get “AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. 3. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do y°« suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operation. T ben Ben d tor SicSrs
0/ our perfectfitting
Automatic air cushion Appliance
Appllanc ' th E CcNTuay
Two Days Trial g.ven. Pamphlet Posted Fret
WINSLOW CO., 261 Collins St..Melbourne,Vic
t ‘ LINSEED COMPOUND 5 rn Codirhs and Colds
Loosens phlepm, allays irritation.
A
POLICY- for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd. The Bulletin Office.
Superior to
, INJECTIONS
kCUBEBS and
S COPAIBA.
* same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours.
i Capsule bears the name
Remed y>bich has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since IS9«.
, CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aik your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Wearne 8 Breakspear,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
Government Contractors.
r—. ; . ~
"f F, you don’t read THE LONE II AND vou
X can’t keep; current with Australian Art.
letters, and music: and you’ll miss rnanv brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street Svdnev.
THE
FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home—
,tn diiilng.ruom, sleeping-room, and all places where hi, 3
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
riot soil or injure
anything, uue
lasts the entire
seas: n.
Sold by
Wholesale
Oruggists,
Groce, s and
H ardware
Dealers,
z wnom are
Sydney Anthony Hordern <fc Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O Connell St.; F. H. Faulding <ft Co., O’ConneiUSL ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinaon & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., o‘C6nnell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnuiig & Co.. Pitt Sfc.j
r eldhoim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N. Y., CJ.S.A
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport
Remedy’ for Goughs ami Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s Gd. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office. ss.
_ B| _ __ ——.wiwm—wMß—Hi
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing-
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
mercdtf*
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
specific in
•ibincuy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
and DYSENTERY.
the EVERLASTING “BLOW OFF” VALVE
/TM
LyM
SIMPLE. EA SIL Y OPERA TED.
STRAIGHT THROUGH BLOW.
Self-Cleaning & Self-Grinding Seat.
FACE PARTS PROTECTED.
NO STUFFING BOX.
Note.—The inlet orifice is tapered just above the seat. This
increases velocity of “ Blast,” and ensures perfect delivery
without punishment to the seat.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
Sole 263 George Street, Sydney;
Agents, 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
| f:w%
im
mi
V
if. m
mm
HIM
Story and Picture Book
of’ the '
“Steel Wings "Windmotor,
showing many illustrations, and giving a full
life-history of this youngest and best of
wind motors, will be sent gratis on appli-
cation to Dept. C,
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY.
It shows how a hearing-on each side of the
wind wheel makes it possible to: build it of
such size, and so easy-running, that the
vast force of the wind can be utilised to
give something better than the trivial
results obtained from the old-style mill.
It shows a windmotor of correct mechanical
design, accurately finished and strongly
built, which will save you money and give
satisfaction; and what can a man want more?
/'ritchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibaolt. 230 pa<res, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Nett.
ON THE HOP’’—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7,d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Mikotf'on Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength : lung-established, safe, reliable and
hand y to use. ’
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take 61
For sale by seeusmen.florists, Countrv chem.
ists, storekeepers, and bv E. J). MOKIUSO\
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street,'tDxKY. ’
a. boi^es an d full particulars, by post,
18* 4d. ( stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
== Brifisi)-flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £t per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.


Perdriau’s Oilskins!
Every man who leads an out-of-
door life should own an Oilskin.
It’s the only sure protection
against the elements, and the
cost is very slight compared to
the comfort derived.
We carry a big stock of reli-
able oilskins in the Regulation
shape at 10/6, 12/6, 15/- and
17/d ; and there are also the
famous “Watershed” patent
oilskins at 25/- and 30/-
We pay the cost of carriage, and if
j 7 ou send us your height and easy
chest measurement we guarantee a,
good fit. Would you like our
Watershed” Booklet telling all
about the care of oilskins ? It’s free.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
PETROL ELECTRIC LIGHTING SET
FOR
&
s
2S
a>
/
V
SOLE AGENT,
T. K. STEANES,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Water a
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES y
Rider.
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
EFFICIENCY.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten. lOd.
-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machinery
Installations In the largest sheds in the Commonwealth and
New Zealand. EVIDENCE OF POPULARITY.
Moffat
SEND FOR PARTICULARS
and
CATALOGUES.
BlacKstone Oil ILngine
The Universally Useful Driving Power.
Economical, Powerful, Durable. Installations Everywhere.
PAXMAN Portable STEAM ENGINES.
THE BEST STEAM POWER.
Economy, Strength, and Durability UNSURPASSED.
7 BENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,;
also at
14 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A. ;
& MARGARET STREET, TOOWOOMBA, Q.
OIL, SHEEP DIP.
,„., i i «
A Dip that gives the fleece a
protective tip.
Made in Australia to beat the maggot-fly— to preserve and improve the wool.
EILGOUR Acetylene (Generators
THE MOST POPULAR AND ECONOMICAL LIGHT.
M
ERCHANT
Technical Staff.
Ltd#
ENGINEERS.
' ( • . .v ,
Electrical and Mechanical.
E.
~ S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS: KING & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
KINDLY ALLOW US TO QIVE YOU QUOTATIONS FOR ANY PLANT YOU MAY
mm
Agents for
PUMPING
(N.S.W.)
LARGE GAS ENGII
Ferranti Ltd.
1
Morgan it© Brushes, ete.
etc.
Mai* Orric* i
11 BROADWAY,
NEW YORK.
MU„
41 QUEEN STJEUUST
MBJ«BOUBKB.
41 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
ROCK DRILLS
Air Compressors, Pneumatic Tools, Coal Cutters,
STONE CHANNELING MACHINES
CAMT»f/RTE MINING. TUNNELING AND QUARRYING PLANTS.
KALGOORLIE.
Pneumatic Tool Dept.
Imperial Riveters.
Imperial Piston Drills.
Imperial Holders-on.
Imperial Chipping and
Caulking Hammers.
Complete Stocks, etc., kept in
Australia.
(SYDNEY) LIMITED, 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
and at MELBOURNE, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, and PERTH.
HopKinson
STEAM VALVES.
THE WISE ADVERTISER
Will notice the increase in the number
of advertisements in the June issue of
THE LONE HAND. Magazine advertising
is a new thing in Australia. See what it
has become in America! And the pre-
eminence of THE LONE HAND —its steady
improvement in maKe-up and contents—
maKes it the ideal advertising medium.
It goes into the Home. And its price
ensures that it is bought by the people
yon want to reach. &
GET THE HABIT !
Even the best magazine-agent is not
always able to judge bow many copies of
JHE LONE HAND will be bought in any-
given month. It is annoying to miss a
number, especially now tbat eacb issue is
a feature number devoted largely to some
insistent topic of tbe bour. Tbe safest way
is to become a subscriber. For 12s. THE.
LONE HAND will be delivered for twelve
months post-free in your home -the r ace
wbere THE LONE HAND is apprec: jed.
£ ORE- TREATMENT.
HAVING erected a Concentration Plant at our Factory, we are prepared to treat sample
Parcels of ore by the CARD-BOSCO HYD. CLASSIFIER and CARD
CONCENTRATOR,' and to show the best possible extraction by concentration.
N. GUTHRIDGE ETB.7 263 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
