

DEWAR
The Whisky for Men of Taste.
G-. WATK.IXS «SS C 30.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers 7 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. - NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE,
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Mather & Platt’s
2=Cycle Gas Engines
See Wild Cat Col
, ; A y-/;■ ' _ ■ ,■ f ;,
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
Tpy m tesp *-|g»
.ic. :a wflk Jen** jl «
fialliy s Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Qtjarantkkd.
Jm C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
—
Take it back,
1 must have
HUTTON*
Pine Apple Brand
CHUBBS SAFES
«n PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
lim&et
1 vatt&M
xam
Js
all. IdatH&ui a ft* se&t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
Royal
Dutch
is the Queen of all Cocoas
r°i^
l Aroma, Strength t'Pwrit>c
WUMurid
Kosciusko is the roof of Australia. MALTHOID is the best roofing in the world.
The Accommodation House at Kosciusko is roofed with MALTHOID, while the
Hotel is lined under the roof and above the ceilings with P. & B, ASPHALT
FELT. This means protection from all weathers, and a much better temperature
than otherwise obtainable. Why not adopt MALTHOID for your building ?
THE PARAFFINE
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
c. a. Macdonald, “The Hercules” Refrigerating Machine.
Sdiiind
NIHIUOM
FOR ALL SERVICE
IN STOCK.
Send fob, Catalogues
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S WHISKY.
5 \
One Star (Si. Three
BRAND
HELIDON SPA WATER
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water: 1
Ist—Rapid absorption* 2nd—Rapid circulation. 3rd—Rapid elimination/ J
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 30.—N0. 1553.]
[Thursday, November 18, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


NEW BOOKS,
INCLUDING X OSE REVIEWED ON
THIS PAGE.
Cabell, J. B.: Cords of Vanity, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Roberts, Morlev, Midsummer Madness, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Lecky, Hon. YV. E. H.: A Memoir, 15s, posted 16s.
Nietzsche’s Thus Spake Zarathnstra, 7s, posted 7s 6d.
Edgecombe, 11. Byron : The Last Phase, 12s 6d, p. 13s 6d.
Cuerber, H. A.: Myths and Legends of the Middle Ages,
fully illustrated, 9s, posted 9s Bd.
Davis, C. B.: The Lodger Overhead and others, 3s 6d, p. 4s.
Rowlands, R.: Little Gods, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Kipling* Rudyard : Actions and Reactions, 3s 6d, p. 4s.
Redmavne’s Modern Practice in Mining, 9s, posted9s 10d.
Stoddart: The New Socialism, 6s, posted 6s Bd.
Jamieson’s Applied Mechanics, Vol. IV., 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Ilarmsworth’s Encylopsedia, 10 volumes, fully ilhis., 60s.
THE HEART OF ANTARCTIC, by E. H. SHACKLETON, C.V.0., 2 volumes, fully illustrated in Color
and by Photographs, 425, posted 445.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic."
The Lancet says .* —“ Proved to be as effective
bacterieidally as is creosote.”
=#l
-
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ o£ V' -ice.
B. The Trachee. or
Windpipe.
O. The Bi Dnehi.il
Tubes cf a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Loh b of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY. Agencies in all
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London. J
THE RED PAGE
Somo Novels,
The light and frivolous novel which is par-
ticularly agreeable in this hot weather is
produced more plentifully in America than
elsewhere. They are written for Americans,
but have found so much appreciation beyond
the Union that, as a consequence, the
American dialect is rapidly superseding the
original Anglo-Saxon, and English slang sur-
vives only in the provinces. Australian
readers therefore found little difficulty in
enjoying Sewell Ford’s Shorty McCabe,
although the slang is fairly thick, and his
latest book, Cherub Devine, is quite as
amusing.
\l/
J. B. Cabell is a new name to us, but his
Cords of Vanity (per George Robertson and
Co.) looks like the work of a practised hand.
The hero is himself an author, and makes a
spirited defence of those who give the public
what it wants in fiction :
Half of the customers patronise the reading
matter shops because they want to induce delu-
sions about a world they know and do not find
particularly roseate; and the other half skim
through a book because they haven’t anything else
to do, and aren’t sleepy as yet. In filling either
prescription the trick is much the same—you have
simply to avoid bothering the reader’s intellect in
any way whatever. You have merely to drug it,
you have merely to caress it with interminable
platitudes, or else with the most uplifting avoid-
ances of anything which happens to be unprint-
ably rational.
Cabell does nofc bother the reader’s intel-
lect in any way. Beginning with a little
allegory of the Foolish Prince and the butter-
flies in a field with a hundred wickets, only
one of which led to the Enchanted Garden, he
describes the adventures of an American
youth of the Gibson type who pursues
various feminine butterflies until one which
had been nearest to hand at the start led
him through the right gate. He believed
with Blanche Amory that in youth emotions
are absolutely necessary, and he gets them
in a manner which affords passing entertain-
ment for the reader.
W
Ralph Straus tells the same kind of story
in The Scandalous Mr. Waldo (Heinemann),
but in a much superior style. It will appeal
to readers who do not seek to be
drugged or dazzled, and who for diver-
sion would prefer The Taming of the
Shrew to The Merry Widow. Straus was in
Australia not long ago, and displayed great
enthusiasm for the art of printing and his
pet Samurai Press. Mr. Waldo is also keen
on printing. He was compiling a bibliography
of the Baskerville Press when his story
begins, and his chauffeur has a fine taste in
books and the appropriate name of Grolier.
The scandalous thing about Waldo, according
to his father and friends, is that he should
prefer such trivial things to settling down in
matrimony. And the father, who had
declined a baronetcy for his son’s benefit,
enters into a political campaign and sundry
Machiavellian intrigues for the sole purpose
of getting his son suitably married. Waldo’s
affairs with a number of women are more
than usually interesting ; for the story is
written with a fine sense of humor and con-
siderable skill in the difficult art of dialogue.
v!/
A. T. Quiller-Couch, who still trades
under the name of “ Q.,” has shown himself
a good business man in withdrawing from
the Delectable Duchy before its interest was
exhausted. Sir John Constantine and Poison
Island justified the departure* and his latest,
True Tilda (G. Bell and Sons), proves that
his humor does not depend upon Cornwall,
and has not petered out. Tilda is a little
circus girl with a large heart, the tenacity of
a terrier, and the resourcefulness of a guerilla
commander. At an early age she takes upon
herself the mothering of an orphan whom
she kidnapped from an asylum. Her escape
is aided by a number of persons who are
adroitly pressed into service. Two of them
are strolling players in distressed circum-
stances, introduced in a manner which re-
calls old acquaintances in Dickens.
“Stanislas !”
“ My love? ”
“I can’t find the saucepan.”
A lady appeared at the hatch of the (caravan’s)
doorway. Her hair hung in disarray over her
well-developed shoulders, and recent tears had
left their furrows on a painted but not uncomely
face.
“I—l—well, to confess the truth, I pawned it,
my bud. Dear, every cloud has its silver lining,
and meanwhile what shall we say to a simple fry ?
You have an incomparable knack of frying.”
“ But where’s the dripping?”
Her husband groaned.
“ The dripping ! The continual dripping ! Am
I—forgive the bitterness of the question—but am
I a stone, love ? ”
Like a good British novelist “ Q.” gives the
kidnapped orphan a birthmark, and pro-
duces his noble pa at the end ; but for all
that Tilda’s adventures are well worth
reading.
Short Stories
Morley Roberts is a versatile purveyor of
fiction for the multitude who has never
advanced from the status of the small shop
round the corner. His short stories in Mid-
summer Madness (Sydney Book Club) are not
distinguished by any remarkable qualities,
but are good to read on the ferry-boat or
while waiting for an interview with the
dentist. There is a touch of the fantastic
about some of them, but they are on familiar
lines ; one is an attempt at the weird which
fails ; and the most interesting is the shortest
—“ The Closed Chamber.” This is the story
of Harter, the sculptor noted for the amazing
purity of his work. “He was fat, as
huge as Balzac, terrible and grotesque as
the elder Dumas in his decadence,
and atrociously, pathetically ugly.” He
looked like Silenus, but talked like an angel,
and no word of scandal touched his open
life. In his house he had a private room,
which many supposed to be an oratory ; but
which he admitted to an intimate friend was a
confessional; and added that until he had this
confessional there was something brutal,
coarse and horrible in his work. Harter
died after finishing his wonderful Psyche, a
soul in marble. His friend, who found him
dead, went into “the closed chamber” and
destroyed a hundred figures and groups
made by the sculptor. “ They were all mon-
strous and most unspeakable indecencies.”
In an earlier volume of short stories
Morley Roberts played with the idea of
Fate as the Great Jester. An American,
Rowland Thomas, does the same thing much
better in The Little Gods (Geo. Robertson
and Co.). The prologue explains the me-
chanism which links the stories together
and gives the book its title, and the epilogue
states that the stories are true and taken
raw from life. Both are unnecessary, for
the stories can afford to stand on their own
merits. The action in all of them takes
place in the Philippines, there is humor
mixed with tragedy, and the tales are told
with force and ability in a manner reminis-
cent of the early Kipling.
Perhaps one reason why American short
stories are so good as compared with English
is that the American magazines offer much
higher prices than any others. Writers like
Kipling, Wells and Conan Doyle now
command high prices in England for any-
thing they do, on account of their
names ; but the American magazines (espe-
cially (Jolliers ) pay according to quality. The
first story in The Little Gods, for instance,
won the 85000 prize offered by Colliers; there
were 30,000 competitors, and the author was
previously unknown.
\!/
Another collection of good stories, some of
which were fathered by Colliers, is The
Lodger Overhead and others (Dytnock’s Book
Arcade). The author, Charles Belmont
Davis, is responsible for The Stage Door,
which showed originality and humor. Three
or four of the stories in the new book are
very good, humorous in a quiet fashion, and
polished in style. They deal with the well-
to-do—the Four Hundred rather than the
Four Million ; but Davis has not mastered
the formula of the short story as “O.
Henry ” has done.
Nor has Oliver Onions the same charm as
the inimitable Sidney Porter. Draw in
Your Stool (Roycroft Library) contains a
number of fairly interesting yarns. The scene
changes from ancient Gaul to modern Spain,
France and England ; the characters are
very varied and well drawn. The style
is good and the diversity of subject matter
helps the interest ; but Onions (unhappy
name !) lacks the light touch and the gay
spirit of the best American. We prefer him
in a long story like Little Devil Doubt, for he
is more at ease in the larger space.
The dedication of Sonnets and Lyrics, by
Roland Powell (Whitcombe and Tombs),
says that
Lyrical poetry is the outpouring of the indivi-
dual soul, and when it is a true note that is struck,
it finds an echo m every heart, for we are all
fashioned similarly, and the common and the
subtle experiences of life often call like responses
from the emotional chords of each nature.
This is right enough ; but Roland Powell
does not strike the true note. He writes
neatly and with propriety of stock themes;
and if it is the outpouring of his soul, it is a
good thing to have got it all out like the
measles. Verses which begin this way,
Now Phoebus’ shafts have pierced the mist
That fills the peaceful vale,
and contain chaste lines like these :
The shearers press’d the snowy bales,
The reapers bound the grain
And stook’d the heavy-headed sheaves
Or piled the trestled wain,
are of no use nowadays to anybody but the
owner.
VI/
Building and Ornamental Stones of
N.S. W. (second edition), by R. T. Baker,
of the Sydney Technological Museum, be-
sides showing that this State has a practically
inexhaustible supply of useful and orna-
mental stones, equal in quality to any found
elsewhere, is also a fine example of what can
be done in color printing at the Government
Printing Office. Some of the illustrations of
marble might pass for copies of Nocturnes or
Symphonies by the artist who admitted that
“Nature was creeping up.”
The Myths and Legends of the Middle
Ages, by H. A. Guerber (Angus and Robert-
son), would make an admirable present for a
boy or girl li-kely to be interested in the
romantic stories of the Nibelungenlied, of
Charlemagne, The Round Table and the Cid.
The tales drawn upon for this book are
amongst the finest in the world, and Guerber
gives an attractive summary of them, inter-
larded with scraps of verse and illustrated by
a good many pictures. The book forms a
useful introduction to the originals, and is
worth reading by those who have not time
for the mediaeval romances, which are often
rather long-winded.
The Book Lovers’ Kalendar for 1910, com-
piled by the irrepressible A. H. Miles (from
Angus and Robertson), will do for sending
as a New Year present to people on the
fringe of your acquaintance who are not
worth a book. Bank notes or money orders
are the best kind of printed matter for young
relations, and a case of our land’s own wine
would be looked upon as a kind thought by
friends.
William Blocksidge has taken upon him-
self, as others have done, to speak in the
name of Australia to England. He addresses
that country as his grandmother, and tells
the old girl to buck up in very distressful
verse :
And what shall boot this fretful armament
If all the nation in a fine concent
Rise not to enforce it ? Let us pin
Our men to loyal discipline,
And feed them with a might
To keep for aye the right!
Else wert thou but a fatted skeleton
Whose flesh would melt and’s gone
At the first touch of lively war. . . .
“ Fatted skeleton ” is decidedly good.
O Mother of my Mother, shake thy sides
And cast ahead thy vision but one pace
In the eternal race !
Show now what patriot power abides
In stuff thou’rt made of ! Let us only feel
How good it is to call thee mother still!
There are better things than this in Australia
to England, and Other Verses (David Nutt),
but none of them seem to have even a
nominal connection with this country.
Essex Evans
George Essex Evans, who passed over on
the 10th inst. at the age of 46, was a
Londoner by birth. His family was Welsh,
and he spent a good deal of his boyhood at
Haverfordwest (Pembrokeshire), which dis-
trict his father represented in the House of
Commons. He came to Queensland at the
age of 18, tried farming, then got into
the Government service ; and at the time of
his death was District Registrar at Too-
woomba. He founded the Austral Associa-
tion there, and wrote a prose description of
the Darling Downs, which he called the
“ Garden of Queensland.”
As a writer he was distinguished by care-
ful workmanship rather than originality.
His early verse was strongly influenced by
Longfellow, Tennyson and Brunton Stephens.
For the last-mentioned he had a warm affec-
tion and an exaggerated opinion of his
quality as a poet. Essex Evans was quite as
good a craftsman as Brunton Stephens and
every bit as patriotic ; but he lacked the
humor of the elder bard. Evans occupied a
position amongst Australian poets similar to
that of Longfellow in America. He had cul-
ture and grace : on occasion he could
turn out creditable patriotic odes and
martial ditties, and at intervals lines like
these :
Nature feels the touch of noon ;
Not a rustle stirs the grass ;
Not a shadow flecks the sky.
Save the brown hawk, hovering nigh ;
Not a ripple dims the glass
Of the wide lagoon.
Darkly, like an armed host
Seen afar against the blue,
Rise the hills, and yellow grey
Sleeps the plain in cove and bay, |
Like a shining sea that dreams
Round a silent coast.
She is the green bud breaking thro*
The winter of my heart.
Two violets, seeking Paradise,
Have hid themselves within hereyes.
Her lips are roses. She doth wear
A sunbeam woven in her hair.
Translations of Heine
In Nevinson’s Essay* in Freedom . referred
to recently, he mentions his favorite authors
and says that “closest uf all to my heart and
most intimate in every gleam and shadow of
love and hatred, and in every phase of the
war for freedom Heine whispers and sings.”
The enduring charm of Heine has induced
many to attempt the translation of his songs
into English. Here and there it might be said
that the attempt has been successful. Just re-
cently three books of translations have been
published— Heine’s Book of Songs, by John
Todhunter (Oxford Press) ; Heinrich Heine:
Poems and Ballads, by Robert Levy
(Melrose); Versions and Perversions, by
Father Tyrrell (Elkin Mathews). Of
these we have read Todhunter and Levy,
both of whom have essayed a large number of
the songs, and Levy’s work is, on the whole,
the best, i.e., it makes the best English,
while retaining the rhythm, and as nearly as
possible the meaning of the original. We
print some specimens from both.
The stars far off in Heaven
Stand motionless up there ;
Thousands of years they gaze on
Each other in love’s despair.
They speak a wondrous language
That is most rich and grand ;
Yet none of our learned professors
That language can understand.
But I so well have learnt it,
Each word in my heart lives on ;
For I have used as my grammar
The face of my Dearest One.
J. Todhunter.
I called the Devil, and he came,
And I looked at him with wondering scan.
He is not ugly, he is not lame,
He’s a most genial, most charming man—
A man of the world, a man in his prime, too,
Engaging and courtly, a man of his time, too.
He’s a diplomatist, first-rate,
And speaks soundly of Church and State.
He’s rather pale ; but that is no wonder,
Sanskrit and Hegel he’s laboring under.
His favorite poet is still our Fouque.
With critical work he is busied no longer,
But leaves as his proxy that scandalmonger,
His dear old grandmother, Hecate.
My legal studies he deigned to praise,
Having sapped at Law in his salad days,
And, hoping my friendship might not be
Too dear a bargain, he nodded to me.
And asked if we had not met somewhere—
“ The Spanish Ambassador’s was ’t?” Ere he
went hence,
I took a good look at his face, and declare
I found him quite an old acquaintance.
J. Todhunter.
Fetch me a mighty coffin
And let us bury these.
My evil songs of aforetime,
My fatal 'phantasies.
And much I’ll lay within it,
But what, I’ll tell to none !
The coffin must be greater
Than Heidelberg’s great tun.
And fetch to me a litter,
Solid of plank and strong;
The litter must be longer
Than Mayence bridge is long.
And summon me twelve giants,
More sturdy of tliew and bone
Than Christopher the Martyr,
In the minster at Cologne.
Forth shall they bear the coffin
And sink it in the sea ;
For such a mighty coffin
Mighty the grave should be.
And know ye why this coffin
Must great and mighty prove?
’Tis that I’ve laid within it
My sorrows and my love.
R. Levi.
Like sombre dreams the houses
Stand all a-row, and I,
Wrapped close within my mantle,
In silence am striding by.
The old cathedral tower
Proclaims twelve noisily ;
And now with alluring kisses
My sweet is awaiting me.
The moon has lent toy going
The gleam of its friendly light;
And, pausing upon the threshold,
My voice rings glad in the night:—
“ My thanks, old trust}' familiar !
In truth you have lighted me well;
But the rest of the world is waiting,
So give it your light for a spell !
“ And if you should hap on a lover,
In solitude making his moan,
Go show him a light to Ins comfort—
As you’ve shown me a light to my own ! ”
Robert Levy.
The lotus groweth uneasy
Beneath the sun’s bold light;
With drooping head she waiteth,
She dreamily waiteth for night.
The moon, who is her lover,
Awakes her with his glance;
Then lovingly she unveileth
Her flower-faced innocence.
She pants and blushes and kindles,
And, gazing mutely above, /
Sheds fragrance and weeps and trembles
For love and the woe of love.
Robert Levy.


A.
Ha
4o,'V>
VA
No. 1864 — Sterling- Silver-mounted Powder
Boxes, Iris design, three sizes, 5/9, 8/-, 9/6.
No. 1882—Sterling Silver-mounted Mirror, Bird
and Mask design, 16/6, 23/6.
No. 1874—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush,
best Bristles, Bose design, cast border, 42/6.
wwmmmmmmrfwpwmm.
No. 1823—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush and
Comb, in Satin-lined case, 12/-, 14/-, 16/-, 18/6,
20/- to 55/-
No. 1779 —Tooth Brush Stand, in
Polished Nickel, with Crystal
Glass Base ; height, s Jin. ; width,
4fin., 3/3.
TERMS —
SPOT
CASH.
■ No. 1838 —Sterling Silver-mounted Cloth Brush,
Cupid design, 8/3, 12/*
No. 1829a —Sterling Silver-mounted Mirror,
Cupid design, 18/6, 26/-
m
m
I
Pullman Razor Strop, heavily Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver, good Hide Strop, richly engraved,
6/6; plain, 6/3 ; cheaper quality, 1/9, 3/-
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices
... FOR ...
High-Grade TOILET REQUISITES.
No. 1861.-—Sterling Silver-
mounted Mirror, Floral
Design, Cast Border, 66/-
No. 1800.—Nickel Shaving Set, Oin.
Revolving' Bevelled Mirror, China Bowl
in Nickel Cup and Badger Brush, 11/-
Postage, 1/0 ; other States, 3/2.
No. 1829 c Silver
mounted Mirror, Cupid l)e
sign, 32/6.
No. 1812.—Nickel Shaving- Set,
Adjustable Mirror, Badger Brush,
Nickel Bowl, with China Pot, on
Bound Polished Wood Base, 12/6.
No. 1801. —Bevelled Mirror
diameter, on Telescopic
Stand, wir.h Opal-lined Bowl,
and Brush, Polished Oak
Base, 21/6.
/iJrJSTh'ti
-;to yov.—
w
iybV/fol
No. 1057a.—Stamp Box, Electro
silver Plate on Britannia Metal
Chased Design, 2/6
No 1826—Pair of Military
Hair Brushes and Comb,
Silver-mounted, in hand-
some case, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
No. 1802a —Gent.’s Shaving
Set, to hang or stand, in
fine polished Nickel, Re-
volving Mirror (bevelled
Glass), Hot Water Mug,
Opal-lined Bowl and Shaving
Brush, 24/-
The Austral Military Brush Case,
in Morocco. Contains 2 g-ood
quality Hair Brushes, with Polished
Wood Backs, Mirror and Comb,
14/- to 27/6.
No. 1851. —Crown Laven-
der Salts, in Sterling:
Silver-mounted Case,
Richly Ornamented,
Small size, 5/9. Large
size, 10/6.
JSTo. 1880—Silver
mounted Comb
Tortoiseshell
color, 3/-
OUR Illustrated Price Lists will help to
solve the present problem. Write
for copies, posted free on request,
and reap the full benefit of our beneficent
rule of
TOP QUALITY AT BOTTOM PRICE.
Here are our XMAS LISTS —
Books for Xmas and Leisure Hours. Xmas Gifts
and Popular Presents. Xmas Grocery, Toilet Pre-
parations and Smokers' Requisites. Guide to
Piccaninnies' Paradise. Diaries for 1910.
No. 1879.—Silver-
mounted Comb,
Bird and Mask
Design, Tortoise-
shell color, 5/.
No. IB6o—Sterling Silver-mounted Powder Boxes, Cupid
design, 4 sizes, 4/9, 6/6, 9/-, 12/3.
No. 1862—Sterling- Silver-mounted Mirror, Lily design, 32/6.
No 1834—Silver-mounted Comb, Tortoiseshell color, 5/-
Pvit
No. 1053a—Hairpin Box, Electro-diver Plate on Britannia
Metal, Chased Design, Satin Finish, 5/6.
Xmas
Price Lis s
posted free
on request.
No. 1818b —Handsome Nickel
Stand, bevelled Swinging 1 Mirror,
Brushes with black polished wooden
backs, nickel mounts, 28/6.
No. IS33—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush, Cupid
design, 10/6, 15/-
Jpg®
No. 1832a— Sterling Silver-mounteu Mirror, Fancy
design, 16/6, 23/6.
IT-
No. 1887.—Silver-mounted Toilet Set, consisting of 2
Hair Brushes, Mirror, Cloth and Hat Brush and Comb,
Bird and Mask Design, £5. Same Design, only with
2 Hair Brushes, Mirror and Comb, £3/12/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrape ™ BOOKS.
ANDRADE’S
MINSTREL SHOW,
or Burnt Cork
Comicalities.
A Splendid Collec-
tion of Comic Songs,
Jokes, Conundrums,
Stump Speeches,
Monologues, Dia-
logues, Farces, Inter-
ludes and After-
pieces for Minstrel
Entertainments.
1/-
Post Free,
1/2.
Life and Battles of Jack
Johnson, World’s Cham-
pion, illustrated, lOd.
Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
ok Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
iWAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 J
B
L
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Pull Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d.; post
free, Bd.
Thk Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/0.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
By Appointment to
His Majesty tbe King.
BOVRIL
is ALL beef—prime beef in a readily digestible form.
That is why BOVRIL is so invigorating a beverage, so
strengthening a food, why Cooks find it so useful, why Doctors
and Nurses recommend it, why the sensible housewife will
have nothing in place of it.
(Drawn froip photo)
“The Champion ”
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years.
absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE) MAKE) A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 free machines.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to. give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
———————■ among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. Weclaim that this is the only
relia >.e machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANOLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING C 0„ o PP . c.P.O , Sydney, N.S.W.
LIQUEUR
* <0.0;
oioo 11
ILiqueurWhisfe
“ Distillery L* -
•VlilTtJi*
OtoHtr SCOTLAND
i?AfiE OLD SCOTCH WKT^i
snip
7| GOOD
T FOR TESTING
Every drop is bottled by our-
selves, thus—and thus only can
we guarantee its quality, age and
flavour.
The entire production of our
Century-old distillery is devoted
to Old Orkney.
The pure Spring water from the
heather-clad hil Is ofOrkney gives
to 0.0. its great superiority
We always hold a lOyears'supply
in our own bonded warehouses.
Thus, wherever you buy it, 0.0.
is always the same.
Write for beautiful booklet en-
titled “ Farthest North," and
nearest 0.0. Agent, sent post
fr«e from
McConnell’s Distillery, ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C. A
Proprietors of
Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
Old
ORKNev
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND City S t>r U S l uburba.n e properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the ®f®‘V’* *
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bi,ls interest
tralian States or New Zeaiknd Wf?- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing' Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine. . lamin
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : _
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Wmchconine, m. 1,.
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.a., v
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
" BROOKS—BEST ’’—what more need be said—the
statement is concise, definite, and entirely justified by
the record of the
BROOKS SADDLES
Remember that when you purchase your next new Bicycle,
and should a substitute be offered, gently but firmly decline
it—in short "SBY BROOKS” and insist on its supply—
Stocked by all Bgents—Brt Manual free from
J. B. BROOKS & CO. LIMITED,
THE SADDLE SPECIALISTS, BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
I
m
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .22 caliber repeater ever
offered. It’s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It’s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
A REMARKABLE LETTER
from Mr. J. L. GOODMAN, Business Manager of the Lyceum Theatre, Sydney.
Mr. J. L. GOODMAN.
HE TELLS WHAT THE GREAT BLOOD and
NERVE REMEDY,
Clements
Tonic
CAN DO FOR NERVOUS EXHAUSTION.
Very few men are better known in theatrical circles in
Australia than Mr. Goodman, theatrical business manager of the
Lyceum Theatre, and of Melbourne ; and his opinion upon the
benefits to be derived from this great nerve medicine must be read
with singular interest by all that great army of nervous men and
women who daily walk the streets of life.
Mr. Goodman s letter says :—“ I consider it a duty to inform the theatrical
profession, and the public generally, of the great medicinal value of the well-
known remedy for impaired nerves—Clements Tonic. I have used it from time
to time with great benefit, always feeling stonger in energy and mentally keener
after its use. It not only strengthens the nerves, but it corrects the stomach
and purifies the blood, establishing sound health. My belief in its value is based
on the relief gained from it. I advise the profession of which lam a member
to use it when arduous studies and duties injure the nervous svstem In mv
opinion it is the King of Medicines. ' y
“(Signed) J. L. GOODMAN.”
Mr. Goodman is only one of thousands of others who swear by this splendid nerve and blood
remedy. It should be in every home, for it is the agent of health, and the sworn foe of
indigestion, nervousness, biliousness, sluggish liver, anaemia and melancholia.
Manufactured
by
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., BALMAIN.
Price 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per bottle'. All Chemists and Stores.
[4


M
*
%
Why be bald headed and old look-
ing before your time? Neglect of
the hair causes dandruff, and dan-
druff is the forerunner of falling
hair and baldness. The remedy is
Ager’s
2tair Vigor
A gentleman residing at Dunedin,
N. Z., writes under date Jan. 7,1907:
“It is with gratitude I write you that I
have now a splendid head of hair, both thick
and very soft, all owing to my having used
your wonderful Hair Vigor. I was almost
bald headed before I used the Hair Vigor. I
still use it once a day, rubbing it well into the
roots of the hair. I used to wear a skull-cap,
and I am very grateful to Ayer’s Hair Vigor
for the improvement it has made in my looks.”
Be warned in time. Use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor and preserve your youth.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A,
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought ot us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest, grade
Coventry Cycles,
■warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3alo to £9
Coaster Hobs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Brakes, variable gears
and all latest improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, aging sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our * pedal offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO a, Dept. 280 Liverpool-
r¥THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
Oeorge Street, Sydney.
.... m* j.;.
Winifred Cecilia Swatts
(9 months) suffered greatly while
teething last year, so her mother gave
her SCOTT’S Emulsion. “Af tCP
taking the first bottle
of SCOTT’S, ” writes Mrs. Ber-
nard Swatts, 24 Bridge Street, Port
Melbourne, Victoria (August, 1908),
“ she had greatly Im-
proved, and she is now
cutting her teeth with-
out any trouble, and is
gaining in strength and
putting on flesh rapidly.
She looks the picture
of health, and I have
no difficulty in getting
her to take SCOTT’S.”
The SCOTT’S Emulsion post-bag
last year brought this letter among
many hundreds, all containing new
records of cures by SCOTT’S Emul-
sion, cures that other preparations, and
all other emulsions, failed to secure
Of all chemists and dealers in medicines.
THE MARK BY WHICH YOU
PICK QUT YOUR CURE!
r?
DID YOU EVER STOP TO THINK —
Have you ever considered wliat trouble may arise from a
neglected Cough or Cold ? Beware of the “Hacking Cough ”
the “Slight Cold,” the “Trivial Hoarseness”—these are Natures
warnings that something is amiss with your respiratory system—
You require a soothing and healing remedy.
Bonnincton’s Irish Mnss
is an old friend and a tried medicine for Colds.
There is no preparation which will eradicate a troublesome Cough so
quickly and effectively. Insist upon having the genuine article—you will
get this if you say distinctly
I WANT “BONNINGTON’S”
IN USE 45 YEARS.
EVERY BOTTLE
CONTAINS A CURE I
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK ** Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
6]
THIN
WOMEN
are always placed
at a disadvantage
by their full-
bosomed and per-
fectly - developed
sister. You, too, can be normally developed.
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD”
adds as much as five pounds a week weight
in ordinary cases, and develops the bosom
and hips by inches to normal. No woman
need remain thin and scrawny. Do as others
do —improve and perfect your charms.
Send 2d. stamp or call for a Free Sample.
Get our Free Book. Hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Falliere’s “Flesh-Food” Co.
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
A MGHT TREAD
When you wear Wood-Milne
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly—your step is light and
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the
nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wooa-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
WOOD-MILNE
[RUBBER HEELS
I are made in Britain, from new, -
I resilient rubber: they enable you
1_ to walk without fatigue, and give
\ 3- surprising feeling- of buoyancy
I and vigour.
t Look for the name Wood-Milne on
1 every heel, and refuse all imitations.
asaa
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth Is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
m their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste. ™
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in .
selling Honlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starch.
No confusi'on arises when you order Horlick’s, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quired in the preparation of Horlick’s as in other foods—water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples: 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Malted Milk Ltd., Slough. Bucks, England.
)
i
%
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WAitK,
Hunjadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with ct
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.-
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signatnre of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
THE RELIABLE
No. 11, in Turkish, 10/- per 100
No. 4, Egyptian, Cairo,made, .10/G per 100.
“Yenidjeh Mahalla,” Turkish Full-flavored
11/6 per 100. Suitable for pipe smokers.
No. 17, Virginian, 6/G per 100,
ARE VERY POPULAR NUMBERS.
MILD, MEDIUM,
FULL FLAVORED.
and
HAVE SECURED THIS
MARKET BY ACTUAL
MERIT.
CIGARETTES
Obtainable by post in any part of the Commonwealth from leading Tobacconists, or write the
Australian Agent, J. F. FLOCKART, York Chambers, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
who will acquaint you of the nearest supplier, or post to you direct till an agent is appointed.
Postage—Add 6d. per 100 to your remittance.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Versailles.
Here dozes to decay that splendid pile,
The wondrous palace of the Frankish kings.
Stately, of glories past it dreams awhile
Ere passing to the lumber-room of things;
Like Dian’s temple, or the Pharaoh’s tomb,
Its spacious corridors the haunt of gloom.
Versailles, the fairy-castle, which was built
In days when kings were bracketed with gods.
Two hundred years of gorgeousness and guilt!
With all its memories grown grey, it nods.
For it has these, though little else be left,
Since of its ancient panoply bereft.
Though bare of trappings, it may not forget
The regal Louis, and the spendthrift kings,
The Trianon, and Marie Antoinette,
Or the mad days of many bloody things;
When the loosed tigers rifled grove and grot,
Red with the vengeance of the sans-culotte.
Or later, when from fields of Waterloo
Came Blucher, loudly knocking at the gate.
Though a red rage his vanguards overthrew
So had it nearly sealed the castle’s fate,
When, where the red-capped vandals had en-
camped,
The Prussian troops through courts and gardens
tramped.
And later still, when new and alien lords
In the White Gallery arrayed their pride,
Moltke and Bismarck, leaning on their swords,
And William, with his princes at his side,
Sternly appraised the value of retreat,
And named the huge exaction for defeat.
And so it dozes, rich in memories sad,
Of wars, alarms, of splendors and revolts ;
Of peoples whom oppressions rendered mad ;
Of proud patricians turned to helpless dolts ;
Versailles, that saw the zenith of their day,
Is emblem of their splendor—and decay.
FRANCE.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Garden of Youth.
Shall Youth endure 1 ... Before mine eyes
In pale, lost Beauty all
Its vanished splendors far uprise ;
And, as the long years fall,
A Voice unto my quest replies
As Samuel spake to Saul.
Behind it sloped the sunlit hills ;
Around it burned the three-
Fold wealth of heavenly blue that fills
All mountain, sky and sea
What time our Southern summer trills
Her lute of ecstasy.
So faint and far ; so long ago,
Some other eye than mine
Beheld, ’twould seem, in gallant show
Its lilies all a-line ;
Its lilacs and the petalled snow
Of white moss-roses fine.
Blue larkspurs by its borders grew ;
With cat-faced pansies rare;
To Illawarra winds out-threw
The stocks their perfumes fair.
And brave hibiscus banners flew
Bold challenge to the air.
The splendid sunflow’r on his stalk
Day-long his lord obeyed ;
And proudly by the pebbled walk,
Like soldiers on parade.
The poppy and the hollyhock
Gay uniforms displayed.
U
Old-fashioned wall-flowers in their prim
Cut robes of spinster brown,
Upon the dancing crocus slim,
In debutante gown,
From social altitudes of dim,
Ancestral pride looked down.
With yellow pollen at their thighs
The bees, an earnest throng
Unto the spendthrift butterflies,
Droned out a warning song,
That in each honeyed cup the prize
Is offered not for long.
And Thou, whose deft handa-gently looped
The over-burdened vine,
Who in thy tender girlhood stooped
A vagrant bloom to twine;
I wonder if the years have duped
Thy memories, like mine,
With dreams. If in thy heart the tongue
Of youth may yet recall,
In silver echoes softly sung,
The glamor of it all;
Or is its voice with portent hung,
As Samuel spake to Saul ?
That garden of the south, in rare
Fresh fragrance of young joy,
No more, oh penitent, a snare
Of roses shall employ
To lure our feet, in passion where
We dallied, girl and boy.
And yet, that callow love, in sooth,
Than all earth’s offering gleams
More fair. As Boaz unto Ruth
My heart will cling, it seems,
To that remembered shrine of Youth,
And all its youthful dreams.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


Hart’s BURLINGTON Cafe,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(3 DOORS BELOW PALING’S).
Sydney’s Premier Cafe and Banqueting Rooms.
'. i ;•. ' • » *
Private Rooms for Dinner and Supper Parties can be
en §fa.g;ed for four to 30 persons. Banqueting; Room for
250. Seating; accommodation for 700 g;uests in the Cafe.
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ladies’ Afternoon Teas.
Music Daily, from 3.30
to 5.
Cigars, Fruit and Con-
fectionery can he purchased at
the several counters near entrance.
Banquet Rooms and Pri-
vate Rooms for Supper,
Dinner, or Afternoon
Receptions.
Special Menu for Sup-
per from 9 till 12,2/6.
A Feature of "THE BURLINGTON” is the
FISH AND OYSTER CATERING,
to supply what commercial gentlemen have long needed.
All tastes of the community are provided for; those
requiring Light Luncheons, such as Fruit, Cakes, Pies,
Tea and Coffee, Ices, Fruit Salads, etc., are provided for
in the front division of the premises, whilst for those
who prefer the more substantial meal, tables are set
up in the back portion and upstairs.
All the Choicest Brands of Colonial Wines kept.
Ladies and Gentlemen's Retiring Rooms are on the First Floor.
OPEN FROM 8 a.m. TILL MIDNIGHT. TELEPHONE, CITY 2089.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
333 CoMlns Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill_Carbons_and_Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
0
0/IHQA
Matchless Merit
The Watch of
THE WATCHWORD IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy”—accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts—accuracy in assembl-
ing them —and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepers in the world*
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ** Office
There are only two kinds of
GAS MANTLES-
WELSBACH
(Australian made)
and others.
■Vni | M | ] f [
:v
iliii
gu^alow
/■ a mP fast
The best galvanised iron is soon corroded by the effects of
the sea air. RUBEROID ROOFING is unaffected by sea
air or salt water, hence its special adaptability for Dressing Sheds, Seaside
CampS, Bath Houses, etC. E. RICH O. CO., Ltd., Sydney (SL Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1553.
THURSDAY, IVOYEMBER 18, 1909.
Price On.
THE COMING ORGAN-GRINDER.
C heap English Freetrade Workmen have lately gone abroad in thousands to take the places of Dutch, Belgian, Swedish and Italian workmen on
trlke. Th is jumping of the Dago 's job seems the limit. Apparently the time Is coming when J. Bull will grind the barrel-organ outside
crumbled Venetian palaces, and the scornful native will give him a copper to go away.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bollktin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(in Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct, to Tim Bullktin Office Twenty-Six
Shill inns sterling you can have. Tiik Bullktin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maolkoii, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bullktin would oblige, the. paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed, to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable, to be. refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part, of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivi columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or N ewspaper Clippings.
All communications will be reyarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bullktin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bullktin original humorous
•or other topical drawings in line or 'wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e. , any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Thk Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/4 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency\ Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vo ncouvei, B. C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 ‘Hastings Street; Forman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A .—lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
Neivs Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bullktin metal advertising plates,size ti'iin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1909.
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1909.
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 9.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Norman Lindsay and
other leading representative artists, will be the
finest Black and White work obtainable in Austra-
lia, and will reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, imp RETURNS will be allowed
•for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the Com-
monwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ; Foreign
addresses, 9d.
THE INIQUITOUS COAL MERCHANTS’
STRIKE.
A strike is a sudden and precipitous process
whereby certain men who are more or less neces-
sary to the community “hold up” or bushrange
the said community by refusing to continue their
avocations unless they get better remuneration
—either in cash or in improved conditions. I 1
the bailed-up community fights, then the struggle
may last for months; if it doesn’t fight, but caves
in, then the trouble may last only part of a second.
About last Monday evening or Tuesday morning
the great piratical coal strike started (and
ended through the community surrendering at
discretion), and the fool public was so busy
watching a small, mild coal strike which had
started about Monday morning that it didn’t
seem to notice the strike which really called for
attention. At the beginning of the week the
Newcastle miners refused to continue their usual
ill-paid subterranean avocation unless certain
grievances were redressed. The concessions they
required, if the whole lot were added together,
would probably not have amounted to 5
per cent, increase on their wages. The abolition
of small, but aggravating and numerous, deduc-
tions, fines and annoyances was all they asked.
Probably 2h per cent, increase in the cost of labor
would have covered everything, for many of the
annoyances were of no cash value to the mine-
owners. Promptly then came the coal-dealers’
strike ; in fact, the coal-dealers were so sudden
that it is hard to say that they didn’t really get
their strike in first. There was nothing mild or
gentle about the methods of the dealers. They
refused to continue to carry on their lawful trade
of coal-selling unless they got about 100 per cent,
increase in their rate of pay— i.e., they put up
the price of coal so that their profit, which
is their wages, was fully doubled. The
fool public, which is the coal-seller’s employer,
didn’t notice that this was about 20 or 40
times more violent a strike than that of the
miners. It gave way instantly to its arrogant
servant and paid the extra wages demanded. The
coal-sellers had another strike on Tuesday morn-
ing, and they struck again before lunch, and they
struck during the lunch-hour, and they had a
strike in the afternoon. Just to preserve the
symmetry of things, they also struck on Wednes-
day, and by that time they had, by merely
threatening to cease work at their ordinary coal-
selling job, booted up their pay anywhere from
GOO to 1200 per cent. And all the time—this was
the amazing part of the case—no one seemed to
notice that there was a coal-dealers’ strike in
progress.
The coal-miners are an ill-paid crowd com-
pared with the dealers—it is only necessary
to compare the residence of the average New-
castle miner with the residence of (say) the
chairman of Howakd Smith and Co. to realise
that—consequently they have an excuse which the
big merchants haven’t. They have grievances
against their employers, the mine-owners, and
even if, as the mine-owners allege, the grievances
are not so large as the men consider them, still
they are some kind of an excuse. The striking
coal-merchants don’t even pretend to have a
grievance against their employers, the public.
The miners are sacrificing themselves as well as
the public for the sake of what they regard as a
principle ; the coal-dealers are sacrificing the
public without any principle, but they aren’t
sacrificing themselves—instead, they are making
a mighty heap of money out of their disgraceful
proceeding. The worst that has been charged
against the miners is that they selected
the moment for their per cent, or
5 pet cent, strike because it was a time
when the visible coal supply was low ; and it was
because the visible coal supply was just as low,
but not lib. lower, that the coal-middlemen
selected the moment for their 600 or 1200 per
cent, strike. But the middlemen add to the
iniquity of their proceeding by alleging that they
are getting money from the public by false pre-
tences. They frighten the public into paying
them incredible prices for the available coal on the
plea that the supply is limited and will pre-
sently run out, and if the public doesn’t secure
its ton of coal now at any price that is asked it
will soon have to go without; and at the same
time they endeavor to frighten the miners by
declaring that there will be no scarcity—that coal
will pour in from Japan and elsewhere ; and, con-
sequently, the miners’ attempt to hold up their
employers must fail. Plainly the middleman is a
liar, or words to that effect.
• * * *
By reason of several thousand years of blatant
arrogance and assumption the middleman has
acquired a prescriptive right to strike without the
fact being even mentioned. The great maritime
strike, in which the sailor-men refused to con-
tinue their job of pushing ships through the water
except at increased pay (or its equivalent in im-
proved conditions), is still remembered. It is a
great solitary event which stands up like the
tower whereon the Parsee puts his dead relative
for crow-bait. Yet the shipowners have struck a
dozen times and refused to continue their job as
common carriers by sea except at greatly increased
pay, and the only result was a newspaper
par stating that rates had gone up. The thing wasn’t
called a strike, and the employers—the passen-
gers and cargo-shippers—didn’t resist for a
moment. The man who drops his pick for 5 per
cent, higher pay is understood to Vie an enemy
whom society should fight in its own preservation.
Yet the man who drops his ship or fleet of ships
for 50 per cent, higher pay is considered hardly even
an incident, so stereotyped is the human mind
and so difficult does it find it to get the correct
focus of things. There have been strikes of fire-
insurance companies, wheat-dealers, landlords
(it is simply described as putting up rent), banks
(it is merely remarked that the rate charged for
advances has risen), master bakers, meat-sellers,
wool-buyers, coal-mine owners (they sometimes call
it a “ vend”), cow-owners —in fact, it is difficult to
remember any kind of employer, boss or middle-
man who doesn’t habitually strike, except the
Devil. Even the Suez Canal has been on strike.
Furthermore, simply by reason of the trader’s
arrogance, it has come to be understood that his
class’ has a perfect right to strike for higher pay
even if it is rolling in affluence and making
enormous profits and has no grievance at all ; the
only excuse required is that the chance has pre-
sented itself. Only last Thursday it was reported
by cable that a strike of cotton-dealers had put up
the price about 150 per cent, in a day, and there
was no promise that it would stop there. If there
is any case on record when any body of workers
have had their wages raised, at one day’s notice,
from 30s. to 755. a week, with the understanding
that thev were at liberty to demand a further rise
next day to 90s. if they saw any chance of getting
it, the event has escaped this paper’s memory.
There are too many strikes in this world,
and they ought to be put down. In such
a case it might be best to begin with the largest
and most outrageous strike. It is hard to say
which that is, but probably the landlord’s strike
against the tenant fills the bill. The Bulletin
knows of cases in which the landlord, without ex-
pending a penny, but simply by repeated strikes,
has raised his own wages, derived from one acre
of grass land, from 2s. to £3 a year, and there are
probably many worse instances than that. His
only excuse was that by land monopoly he and
his colleagues had made an artificial scarcity of
grass, which is just the same as if a gigantic
trades union had made an artificial scarcity of
available muscle. If this paper knew of any case
in which a trades union had contrived, by mere
striking, to put up the price of pick and shovel
work from £2 to £6O a week within half a century,
then it would recommend that the suppression of
strikes should begin with the pick and shovel
laborer. As matters stand, the ground-landlord s
case seems to be the one which calls for earliest
attention.
THE NEEDLESSNESS OF THE PRIVATE
LANDLORD.
At time of writing the real unimproved value of
Sydney and its suburbs probably stands for some-
thing like £60,000,000. It was set down officially
at £39,791,410 in 1907, and the figures given for
1908 were £44,043,500. These are the estimates—
always very low estimates —made for municipal
taxation purposes ; it is not unlikely that in the
current year of prosperity the land on which
Sydney stands would actually fetch £60,000,000 if it
were possible to dump the property on the market.
This circumstance has no relation to the price or
value of the things on or in the land—the
buildings, footpaths, drains, etc., etc. —it is just
the price of bare naked Sydney. The people
made this value by merely coming to the spot
and existing there. They made it for the land
lord when, had they been better advised, they
would have made it for themselves. If the State
had leased out the land itself, instead of giving it
away or selling it for a song to people like I)an
Cooper and letting them lease it out, the Treasury
might now be receiving a steady income of well
over £2,000,000 a year from ground rents, with un-
limited prospects of increase ahead. And even
£2,000,000 a year is a large sum. It would pay
off the N.S.W. public debt within 40 years. Or
it would be sufficient to provide for the abolition
of all the direct taxes that the people pay, and all
excise duties as well. Or it would allow of all
railway freights and fares being reduced nearly
one-half. Or it would permit of old-age
pensions being raised from 10s. to £2 per
week. Or it would allow of old-age pen-
sions being raised to £1 per week, and also
supply-enough money to maintain all the hospitals
in the State, and yet leave sufficient to provide
for the building of about 100 miles of new railway
per annum, and even after that there would be a
surplus which, if accumulated for 20 years or so,
would pay for the locking of the Darling or some
trifle of the kind. Of course there would be this
set-off—that the people of N.S.W. wouldn’t have
the joy of knowing that the absentee Cooper
family was having a good time in England on its
rents, and uttering Stinking Fish sentiments
about the country which keeps it in affluence. But
N.S.W. might bear up.
Unfortunately, though a fool nation may call
on the Lord to put back His universe and give
it yesterday, He never pays any heed. But one
might expect that the fool nation would learn by
past experience to take heed of to-day, so that, when
to-morrow comes, to-day won’t be a yesterday like
the previous one. If Australia had to build a new
city, one would think that each good democrat
would strain every nerve to keep it out of the
hands of the landlord. Also that he would fight
his hardest to have the city placed where it would
have the best possible chance to become great and
prosperous, so that as large a population as possible
would be free from the curse of private land-
lordism, and so that the place would be the
greatest possible evidence of the needlessness of
the private landlord ; that he would do his utmost
to have it located on a generous sized territory, so
that as large an area as possible would be free from
the curse of private landlordism; and that it would
be his ambition to make the city that was owned
by the people greater and more important than
any landlord-owned city in Australia. All this,
one might expect, would be a gospel with every-
body who called himself a democrat, and the fact
that it isn’t a gospel with many alleged democrats
suggests that their alleged democratic sentiment
is at the best a poor, theoretical, hand-to-mouth
affair and of small account.
* * * »
When the long-drawn-out Federal capital shindy
commenced The Bulletin pinned its faith to the
idea of a generous-sized territory, a Federal port
which would be a real port—not a mockery on
dry land—and really under Federal control,
and a city which would have such a splendid
supply of water power that it would be the
cheapest and ultimately the greatest manufactur-
ing centre in the Commonwealth ;'and it hoped
to see every inch of this land acquired for the
people at its present almost nominal value, and
kept as the property of the people for ever.
There is no reason why an inland city shouldn’t
be great. Berlin (over 2,000,000 people), Vienna
(2.000,000), Paris (2,700,000), Moscow (1,360,000),
Warsaw (760,000), Madrid (540,000), Milan
(500,000), Mexico, Rome and scores besides
of the world’s great cities are inland. And
there is no reason why such a city, start-
ing under modern conditions—insteftd of be-
ginning as a mere convict outpost in a land
that had neither roads, railways, telegraphs or
any other civilisation—should not grow to possess
half a million people in a quarter of the time
which Sydney has spent in achieving the same
eminence. Then the cash value of the ground of
the city, the suburbs, the adjacent farm lands
and the port would probably, taking Sydney for a
basis, be at least £60,000,000; and if £10,000,000
of this belonged to the people of the Federal
territory itself there would still be £50,000,000
worth of land —worth, on a 4 per cent, basis,
£2,000,000 a year in ground rents—to be the pro-
perty of the people of the States. Supposing their
populations maintained the same proportion as at
present, these would be roughly the respective
shares: —
Capital Annual
Value. Rental.
N.S.W.’s share .. £19,000,C00 £760,000
Victoria’s share .. 15,000,000 600,000
Queensland’s share .. 6,500,000 260,000
S. A.’s share .. .. 4,500,000 180,000
Westralia’s share .. 3,000,000 120,000
Tasmania’s share .. 2,000,000 80,000
£50,000,000 £2,000,000
• » * *
These are large sums, yet they would grow
larger and larger. And their acquisition would in-
volve no extra outlay; they are simply the
values which people create by settling on
what was formerly vacant land of a mere nominal
value. A place may be another Berlin, worth
countless millions, or only another Goulburn or
Bendigo, just according to its situation and advan-
tages, and yet the amount of money spent on the
erection of Government offices and the like may
be much the same in each case. The creation of
these immense values needn’t detract to the
extent of a copper from the value or progress of
Sydney and Melbourne, any more than the
gigantic rise of Berlin has detracted from the
wealth and progress of Hamburg, Frankfort or
Vienna. Why then, it may be asked, should there
be such frenzied opposition to the making or all
this wealth out of nothing? Part of the trouble
arises, no doubt, out of the childish jealousy
of the man who lives in an existing
city, and who would rather, in his insane
narrow-mindedness, throw fifty or a hundred
millions of the country’s wealth into the sea than
have his own State city—even though he owns
none of it and only rents a house in one of its
back streets —overshadowed. But a greater
trouble lies in the fact that this cause OF private
landlordism is at stake. A single example is
worth more than 100 tons of Henry George
literature or 100 years of theory. In the days
when Monaro was selected as the Federal capital
site the Labor party was younger and more
enthusiastic than it is now, and the best menot
the party talked freely and openly about the
Federal city and territory as the scene ot
a notable experiment in the public ownership ot
land. Private landlordism couldn’t afford to have
a successful experiment of that kind held up against
it. Anything of the sort would hasten its destruc-
tion faster than libraries of printed theory and
years of loose eloquence. It was necessary to get
the capita] shifted to some cramped, barren spot
where the outlook would be too poor to encourage
anybody to try devices of public land-ownership,
and where, if "such things were tried, they would
produce such poor results that they would do the
democratic cause more harm than good . Ihe
matter was so important to the landlord interest
that the sacrifice of a hundred millions of pro-
spective wealth was nothing by comparison. Fven
if any number of millions could be made by
proving the private landlord to be superfluous, it
was better for the private landlord that these
millions should not be made.
It was naturally impossible to put the real pur-
pose of the Canberra movement before the public,
so the private-landlord interest proceeded to lie.
And it lied magnificently. The horse lie, and the
old historical snake lie, and the fish lie, and the
newspaper-circulation lie, and the anti-Socialistic
lie, and the lie about the breaking up of the home
were poor things by comparison. The private-
landlordism party became obsessed, allegedly in
the highest and best interests of Australia, with a
conviction that the good Federal capital site was a
howling wilderness, and that the hopeless site was
a Garden of Eden. Its position was awkward, of
course, for it was up against official
statistics like these :
County County
of ' of
Wallace Cowley
(Dalgety (Yassberra
site). site).
Population (1901) .. .. .. 3,915 793
Population per 100 square miles 182 08
Increase since 1891 .. .. .. 459 110
Inhabited Dwellings .. .. 691 164
Cultivated Area (acres) .. .. 4,527 940
Area under Wheat (acres).. .. 136 ( 6
Wheat Crop (bushels) .. .. 1,096 1 43
Potatoes (tons) 407 53
Wheaten Hay (tons) .. .. 401 AO
Barley (bushels) 156 Nil
Barley Hay (tons) 17 Ntl
Oats (bushels) .. .. .. 2,596 Nil
Oaten Hay (tons) 1,770 256
Rye (bushels) .. .. .. 1,568 124
Lucerne Hay (tons) . .. .. 610 51
Honey (lb.) 4,646 4.J.55
Horses.. .. .. .. .. 4,698 1,3/0
CowsinMilk.. .. .. .. 2,095 444
Milk (gall.) 338,901 69,277
Other Cattle .. .. .. .. 21,486 13,921
Sheep.. ..387,221 196,434
Butter made (lb.) .. .. .. 76,031 12,553
Cheese(lb-) .. .. .. .. 2,775 Nil
Bacon and Hams (lb.) .. .. 34,761 11,969
And it was still more awkward because the party
of private landlordism was up against foolish Tory
supporters who gave away the fact that the only
recommendation of the Canberra site was its
poverty and hopelessness, in this fashion :
I express the hope that the Federal capital will never be
a city of very large population. . . . A population of from
50,000 to 60,000 is as large a population as I think we can
expect to have in the Federal capital within 60 or 70years
after it has been established. ... I think it will prove to
be an advantage to establish the Federal capital in a dis-
trict WHICH IS CAPABLE OF SUPPORTING A COM-
PARATIVELY SMALL POPULATION.... The capital
should not be a city of overwhelming importance. ... I
regard it as one of the reasons in favor of the establish-
ment of the capital in the Yass-Canberra district that it
is not likely, in that district, ive shall have established a
city likely to approach, for a very long time, the dimensions
of Washington, for instance. —Senator Sledgf.r.
I suppose that if Canberra be made the capital site the
city will be partially deserted when Parliament is not
sitting. . . . WE KNOW THAT NOBODY WILL LIVE
IN THE CAPITAL CITY except Government officers,
with, of course, shopkeepers and others who will supply
their wants. —Senator Sayers.
Still the party of private landlordism bore up
pretty well on the whole, and wore its cloak of
hypocrisy with a decent air of patriotism.
It is a curious gathering, that same Private
Landlord party. It includes all the worst speci-
mens of Toryism. It also numbers in its ranks
worn-out, inefficient Labor men like McGoweN
and Holman, who hold parochialism of more
account than democratic principle, and who
shed the whole democratic garment when what
they regard as the interests of their own back
street are threatened. It used to reckon in
J. C. Watson, when he had decided to give
up Labor politics and to turn mining specu-
lator, and pursue the wild cat in Africa; and
Wm. Hughes joined it, when he had become
much more of a lawyer than a Labor politician
and had developed into a valuable contributor to
the Tory Sydney Telegraph. It was helped
by at least one foolish Labor paper which
propounded the theory that, because the price of
bread had gone up, it wasn’t worth while worrying
about the Federal capital —as if the handing over
of the capital to private landlordism would make
bread go down. And yet, if it is any part of the
Labor programme to oppose private landlordism,
this is just the point at which the party requires
to exert itself. It is its first big chance to demon-
strate the faith that is in it. Years ago one
section of the party sent an expedition to far-off
Paraguay to prove that the private landlord
wasn’t indispensable. It should make an effort
now to send an expedition a little further than
Canberra on the same errand.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Decaying Aborigine.
UT , „ V,
Ehe rec ent Australian Church Congress did a
lamentation, without which no clerical gathering
is complete, about the obvious passing away of
° ur black brother Binghi. The president (Bishop
Riley) was thus reported :
To one question, the aborigines, sufficient attention has
at Vee failures everywhere. I
that the State, the Roman Catholics and ourselves,
j n a small way, have done our best, but the result is that
the aboriginal is dying out fast before the idvance of the
white man. It is sad to have to confess it.


And after all it may be asked, even by the most
humane person : “ Is there anything sad about
it?” There is no special cause for lamenta-
tion in the fact that the old Binghi is dying,
provided nothing is done to hasten his end or to
make miserable his declining years. Everybody
has to die—bishops and Binghis alike. Even the
wildest bishop can’t blame the white man because
Binghi isn’t immortal on this earth. He never
was. Therefore the complaint is that for some
reason there is not enough new Binghi being
born, yet no one has proved that it is advisable
for him to be born. Presumably he has a soul
just the same as a white man—the orthodox
Church conception of a soul being accepted in
order to fit in with the orthodox Church argu-
ment. The soul is immortal. Man cannot make
it nor can he destroy it. It is always there. If
Binghi isn’t born, then presumably the soul which
would have been his if he had been born will
inhabit some other earthly tenement, for it
sounds very like blasphemy to allege that
the decay of the birth-rate can destroy souls. In
that case it seems like shameful cruelty to try to
so arrange things that the largest possible number
of souls—some of which, under happier conditions,
might have inhabited the bodies of great states-
men, writers, artists, scientists, archbishops and
the like—should be imprisoned in the body of
Binghi. To be born Binghi is to ally the soul to
a stunted mind, which utterly fails, as a rule, to
get a glimmer of the meaning of the gospel. It
is to be black and often naked, to be a person who
has an incurable tendency to lead a squalid life in
a gunyah—one who adds nothing to the world’s
stock of knowledge, who is despised and
patronised, and to whom bishops allude as “our
poor colored brother.” If it is a desirable
thing to be Binghi then some bishop ought to
abandon his clothes and take to the woods and
become a naturalised aborigine. If it is an unde-
sirable thing, then this craving on the part of
bishops to subject as many souls as possible to the
ill-fortune of inhabiting an earthly tenement that
is painted black seems unaccountable. It is
possible that by the earnest meddling of poli-
ticians, clerics and doctors the aboriginal birth-
rate might be raised a little for the time being.
And it is possible, too, that the result would be
that a soul which, under happier conditions,
would have belonged to a cardinal or a bishop or
a philanthropist or a Royal Academician will be
doomed to spend its life inside a body that comes
round to the back-door and says insinuatingly
“Gib it tiekpen!” Possibly in a future state
that soul may acquire a wider outlook, and may
be able to understand what it lost through the
interference of some busybodies who would, go
touching the paint on the Great Scheme of Things
to see if it was dry, and then it may have a very
low opinion of bishops and the like. It is a
fixed superstition of the Church that a grievous
wrong has been somehow committed ora grievous
disaster has somehow happened if even the most
useless and hopeless race fails to multiply and fill
the world more and more with useless and hope-
less people. Nature seems to think differently.
If Nature hadn’t known its business a great deal
better than the Church can teach it the whole
human race might be Binghi to-day. If the
Church could get its maudlin way there is still
time for the whole human race to become Binghi
on some future day. Are there such tremendous
points about being Binghi?
,
A City That Doesn’t Depend on Coal.
Last week the people of N.S.W. (and other
places) suddenly commenced to think very hard
about their dependence on coal. Before the
strike had lasted three days the possible dimen-
sions of the trouble began to be realised. If the
supply of coal stops for only a short time railways
will cease to bring food to Sydney, and steam-
boats will do likewise; and, except for supplies
carried in from the land side by dray and an
occasional ketch staggering in from seaward with
a load of potatoes, the city will be foodless. It
will have no light or heat, for gas is produced by
coal, and candles are made by coal-driven
machinery, and electricity is produced the same
way ; so it will sit in the dark and will cook its chop
by burning the furniture, and will go to bed early.
There will be no industries except such as can be
driven by hand, wind, horse, water or dog, for all
the rest depend on coal. There will be no tram-cars
and everybody will walk, for the cabs will soon be
put out of commission for want of coal-driven
trains to bring in horse feed. Therefore it will be
a time when the thin, swift clerk who can step out
swiftly will get promotion, while the fatted
manager who reaches the office in an exhausted
state at 11.30 a.m. will be “fired.” Drink will
give out, for even breweries require coal. The
higher parts of the city will be dry, because water
is pumped up to them by machinery worked with
the aid of coal. There will be no biled shirt in
the land for want of coal to heat the iron that
irons the biled shirt. The price of food,
brought in by ketch or bullock dray, will be
ruinous. There will be no ice if it is sum-
mer and no hell if it is winter. Burst tanks
won’t be repaired for lack of fires to melt solder,
and conflagrations will not be put out for want of
any power to throw water higher than a man can
heave it with a bucket—therefore the fires will
rage till the city is half consumed. There will be
no omnibuses, no ferry-boats, no whisky hot, no
freshly-ironed belltopper or plug hat, no nice tidy
girls (for their blouses and skirts will be limp,
unironed rags), no newspapers (except such as
turn the machine by hand, and hand will be very
scarce, most of it having fled to the country in
search of food)—in fact, there will be hardly any-
thing. That is what will happen if there is ever
a long-continued general coal-strike, or if an
enemy cuts off the coal-supply. Considering that
practically all the sources of Australia’s
coal supply, barring Lithgow (N.S.W.),
Outrim and Jumbunna (Vic.), Collie (W.A.) and
Leigh’s Creek (S.A.), are either on the coast or
distribute their output by coastal railways that
can be easily attacked from seaward, the cutting-
off process looks fairly easy. And it is part of
the cussedness of things that Lithgow, Outrim
and Jumbunna yield only a small supply, and
Leigh’s Creek and Collie yield a supply that is not
only small, but infamously bad. These matters
have a wider significance than appears on the
surface. Seeing that Australia is about to build
anew city within the confines pf N.S.W., The
Bulletin has always advocated Dalgety, on
account of its magnificent and almost unlimited
water power. If the great, swift, permanent
Snowy River and all its tributaries were harnessed
at every possible place, both below and above the
Federal capital, there would be power enough to
run a prosperous manufacturing city of 1,000,000
people—to light it and heat it, to propel its fac-
tories, tram-cars and trains, its small in-
dustries and its large industries—all without
coal. The rivers don’t go on strike nor do the big
streams have grievances with their employers. A
Federal capital at a place of the sort described
would be a city of refuge whenever coal threw
up its job. Of course, the furious State
Frights person would regard that fact as an
additional grievance. He would consider it a sin
and an insult if the Australian capital wasn’t even
more miserable in a time of crisis than his own
State capital. Yet, in the interests of Australia
at large, it would be well if there was even one
great city where the wheels were still going
round and grinding out wealth when all the
wheels were stopped elsewhere. A Federal
capital on Monaro would be the only great centre
in Australia which wasn’t dependent on
coal, and which couldn’t be paralysed if
the coal supply left off. It would have work to
offer when other places had none. It would be a
sort of insurance against utter disaster. But it is
probably one of the recommendations of Canberra
in the eyes of the wretched, caterpillar-minded anti-
Australian that it is not only dependent on coal,
but is also dependent on coal produced in N.S.W.
and carried to it by N.S.W. railways. For the
Canberra capital can’t import coal by sea per
medium of an alleged port which stops at high
tide mark and consequently hasn’t enough water
to float a canoe.
The Coal-Bosses’ Declaration of War.
Sydney Telegraph allowed one of its men at
Newcastle to tell this awkward truth on the first
day of the coal strike:—
Newcastle, Saturday.—The determination to strike has
been arrived at only after consideration and preparation
for months past. It has been recognised that the miners
were dissatisfied with many of the conditions under
which they were working, but it was hoped that, with
the appointment of the Conciliation Board, some five
months ago, a better understanding had been arrived at
between the men and the proprietors... The proprietors
claimed that its investigations were dragged out at un-
necessary length, and that it was too cumbersome a
tribunal to be adopted for the general settlement of
disputes...
In the meantime the PROPRIETORS HAD DECIDED
THEY WOULD NO LONGER BE PARTIES TO THE
SETTLEMENT OF COLLIERY TROUBLES BY CON-
CILIATION, AND THEREFORE THE BOARD LAPSED.
All the time that the old Arbitration Act was
alive, and while a section of the employers and
their newspaper claquers were throwing mud at
it, the yarn was, “Oh, conciliation is the proper
thing. Let masters and men settle their own dif-
ferences.” So the Act was killed and conciliation
was tried ; whereupon the proprietors waited a few
months, evidently for the sake of appearances, and
then threw that over, too —they “ decided that
they would no lonyer be parlies to the settlement of
colliery troubles by conciliation.'" After that, as
there wasn’t any tribunal to settle the inevitable
troubles, dispute after dispute occurred, until the
Miners’ Federation was keeping close on 1500 men.
As this was getting too strong, a general strike
was ordered as the one way, apparently, in which
the whole matter could be brought to a head. Of
course, instantly they struck, the right-thinking
person wrote denouncing them for striking first
and asking for a conference afterwards. The
right-thinking person forgot about that Concilia-
tion Board ; he forgot that “the proprietors had
decided that they would no longer be parties to the
settlement of colliery troubles by conciliation.”
And the daily papers, as usual, helped him to
forget by talking violently about something else.
♦
Joseph’s Budget.
Maoriland’s Dreadnought excitement is as flat
now as the top of the perished beer of yesterday ;
but the bill remains. The Jingo frenzy of the
moment is the sparkling tide when it is in, and
the bill is the great expanse of uninteresting
brown mud when the tide is out. There is nothing
flatter or browner or muddier than the bill. The
Dreadnought looks as if it might be the last straw
on the sagging back of Maoriland’s finance.
The public debt of the Dominion has increased
from £47,000,000 in 1899 to £71,000,000 in 1909,
and out of this increase fully one-third has gone
in non-productive works. The artificial pro-
sperity created by this scattering of loan moneys
kept the revenue on the up-grade for a
long while; but now the interest bill has
grown so large that even when the little com-
munity borrows £2,000,000 a year the influx of
loan money is more than counterbalanced by the
outflow of interest money, and there is no surplus
left with which to boom. Besides, borrowing
grows, more and more difficult. The bigger the
interest bill (i.c., the bigger the debt) the
harder it is to get new loans. It is possi-
ble now to raise £2,000,000 a year from,
Cohen to counterbalance the £2,000,000 or so
payable every year to Cohen ; but when the
amount payable to Cohen is £3,500,000 a year it is
quite probable that it won’t be possible to raise
anything from Cohen. The debt by that time
will be so large that Cohen won’t think it safe to
go any further. Then Maoriland will have
£3,500,000 a year less cash to spend than it
has now, and the Devil will break loose.
Already the Devil isn’t so securely tied up as
Maoriland would like. The revenue showed a
decrease of nearly £55,000 last year, and another
decrease is expected this year. The expenditure
showed an increase of £571,000 last year, a lot of
it for interest, and another increase is anticipated
this year. .Premier Ward proposes to borrow
from the reluctant Bull the £2,000,000 for the
insane Dreadnought which he forced on the
equally reluctant Bull; but this being a special
case the debt is to be wiped off by instalments
spread over lSg years. The interest and sinking
fund will thus represent £150,000 ayear until l'J2Bor
1929, and as there is a deficit sticking out quite
apart from this, new taxation has to be imposed.
Maoriland is already the most heavily taxed place
in Australasia, mostly by reason of its stupendous
load of unproductive debt; but there are to
be new death duties, extra income-tax, tax
on banking profits, tax on racing clubs,
increased railway charges and additional
duties. And even with all this the day
of big surpluses—even big bogus surpluses—
is apparently over. All Joseph Ward seems to
hope for now is that by borrowing largely to keep
the fag-end of the boom on its last legs, and
by charging a lot of ordinary expenditure
to * revenue, and by imposing a number of
new taxes, he may make the accounts look square
for a little while longer. How much longer it is
for Cohen to say. In Maoriland, nowadays,
Cohen is the last court of appeal. Probably
when the great trouble comes, Joseph won’t be
there. People named Joseph seldom are there.
♦
The Waiting of Weary and Co.
John Weary, who runs a little Premier business
at Melbourne, had his chance last week and didn’t
take it. Weary seldom takes anything except to
his bed. The position is this: Victoria has
hitherto been mostly dependent on N.iS.W. for
its coal, which fact puts the Weary Government
in a hard situation, for there is a strike in
N.S.W., and even if the Weary Ministry knew
exactly how to settle the strike, and even if it
passed the most perfect Arbitration Bill in crea-
tion, the trouble is out of its jurisdiction. But
Victoria has at last discovered a huge coal deposit
of its own, and it proposes to run a State coal
mine at Powlett’s River for the supply of its own
trains. That is to say, that the regulation Parlia-
mentary Committee is slowly considering the
route that the railway to Powlett’s River is
to take (there are only 10 miles of it to
be built). Then it has to report; then
Parliament has to consider the report and
authorise the line, then the line has to be
built, and then things have to begin to happen.
It is officially reckoned that if the railway was
started now the Powlett’s River mine could, inside
three months, be turning out 1000 tons of coal
daily, though in the ordinary course of procedure
it isn’t likely to do anything for a couple of years.
A man who was wholly and completely awake
would have taken the hint under the present un-
usual circumstances. He would have met Parlia-
ment with a demand for authority to budd the
railway according to the route that looks best—it
is pretty well known which route that is—without
any of the usual formalities; in fact, he would
have asked for a blank cheque and insisted on
getting it that night. Then lie would have ex-
plained to his officers (the same night) that this
was a time when impossibilities had to be done
whether they were impossible or not, and that
Powlett’s River must be turning out twice the
amount of coal mentioned and be doing it in half
the time. He would have promised large bonuses
and promotions on one side, and wholesale
sack on the other, until he had the neces-
sary departments working 24 hours a day
including Sunday, and when Sabbatarian deputa-
tions called about it he would have refused to see
them and have simply sent out a junior clerk to
tell them that all snuffle was suspended till after
January. But alas! it is just John Weary.
His railway department is already reducing trains.
It may, in another few weeks, have to almost
abolish its railway service and let the harvest
traffic go to the Devil, for the few small Victorian
minesthatareopened upareamerejoke. The State
can’t do anything to end the trouble. It can’t even
try the desperate expedient—which the N.S.W.
Government might do—of seizing one of the
closed-up mines and working it by prison labor.
Yet the emergency doesn’t seem to have put
John Weary the least bit out of his stride.
Apparently he hasn’t quickened his pace by so
much as one knot per hour. At latest advices
the Victorian Works Department, which should be
toiling like mad at Powlett’s River, was cleaning
out a fishpond, and Mines Minister Mcßride said
that he “ proposed to wait and see how the strike
developed.” Great and wonderful waiters are
Weary and Co. All things, including rags,
poverty, discredit, old age, moss and the sleeping
sickness, come to the man who waits.
♦ v— —
Bull’s Garden.
If there is one point on which the Foreign-trader
is really solid it is that his policy “fosters the
primary industries,” and that fostering the pri-
mary industries is a great and noble business.
This legend isn’t peculiar to Australia: England
has also got it, though it seems rather incongruous
in the Bull country. For instance, an English
anti-Tariff Reform paper lately broke out with
this observation: —
A land was healthiest and happiest when dependent
on primary industries. Under Freetrade the garden
flourished before the factory, and the garden was, in the
nature of things, a happier place than the factory.
This sort of thing incites one to scuffle over a
small desert of figures in order to show how
beautifully John Bull’s garden has flourished
since Cobden, like the other serpent mentioned
early in Genesis, climbed over the fence and spoke
glozing words to the gardener :
Per sons Occupied in Agriculture.
England. Ireland. Fiscal Policy.
1841 .. 2,300,000 Unknown Protection
1851 .. 1,904,687 850,100 Partial Freetrade
1861 .. 1,803,049 602,200 Increasing Freetrade
1871 .. 1,423,854 509,700 „
1881 .. 1,199,827 293,300 „
1891 .. 1,099,572 251,700
1901 .. 988,340 212,200
In 1845, under high Protection, Britain grew
enough wheat to supply 24,000,000 of its people,
and even then the land wasn’t worked to half its
full capacity. In 19Q5 the country grew enough
wheat to supply only 4,50u,000 people, and there
was the same kind of a drop in barley, oats, beans,
peas, potatoes and turnips. This sort of thing
doesn’t speak too well for the Foreign-trade
garden. And the cost of the system which
lays the garden waste is incredible. In
older days Britain lost the command of
the sea over and over again, sometimes
for a year or two at a time, and it was a
mere incident like a reverse in the Transvaal or
Afghanistan. The Bun, of those days simply
built some more ships and recovered the command
of the sea as soon as possible. He grew his own
food and couldn’t be starved out, so he just kept
calm and repaired the damage. He didn’t even
worry about his colonies; they were fairly safe,
for the enemy had to stay in the narrow seas and
watch Bull. So the British person of those days
didn’t ruin himself in the long years of peace
keeping up a two- or three-Power standard ; if the
enemy was too strong for him at sea when war
began he could retire into harbor for a while until
he found allies, or fitted out extra vessels, or
caught his foe with his forces divided. But all
that sort of thing is past. To-day Bull feels that
he must be ready all the time to fight any
probable combination of enemies, and he must
fight when the enemy bids him and regard-
less of the odds, for to abandon the sea for
a while and wait for a better opportunity
would mean starvation to a country so wholly
dependent on imported food. Thus the Foreign-
trade policy seems to have cost Britain (1) nearly
2,000,000 agricultural workers and their families ;
(2) the value of the goods they should have pro-
duced, but didn’t; (3) possibly £10,000,000 a year
of extra naval expenditure caused by the fact that
Britain is now the one great country on earth
which can’t afford to take even the shadow of a
chance of defeat —the most temporary kind of
defeat—on the sea. Theoretically, of course, the
2,000,000 displaced agriculturists and their families
should not have been lost to the country ; they
should simply have taken to other and
more profitable occupations. In practice,
however, they were lost ; they emigrated.
John B. is just beginning to wake up to the fact
that a huge local wheat crop is probably as good
a line of defence as 20 first-class battleships, for it
is likely to take all these battleships to safeguard
the wheat-vessels coming to England—the wheat-
vessels that should be unnecessary. And when a
Yankee wheat gamble suddenly puts up the price
of his imported loaf to nearly double its old value
Bull realises that the world is changing fast, and
that the cornering of the surplus wheat of the
whole globe is no longer impossible, and when
that is done the country which buys its grain in-
stead of growing it may find its loaf put up to 2s.
Yet, despite all these things, it is quite true, as
alleged, that the garden is a happier place for the
occupants _than the factory ; but if there are
neither people nor vegetables in the garden, then
there is no one there to be happy, save the cater-
pillar ; and even the caterpillar may be miserable
for all we know.
The Labor Three from N.S.W.
The N.S.W. Labor people have selected three
candidates — McDougall, G-ardiner, and the
stalwart Arthur Rae— to fight next year for the
senatorial seats at present occupied by “ Soapy ”
Gray, Pulsford of the dreary heaps of figures,
and ex-warrior Jawbone Neild. It is to be
hoped that they will have all the good luck which
can befall three capable and earnest democrats.
N.S.W.’s present contribution to the aggregate
capacity of the Senate is a very humble affair. It
has never once sent a Labor man to the Senate.
It has never sent a fairly good democrat to the
Senate, except when Richard O’Connor got there
at the first election on the strength of his great
efforts in the cause of Federation. When he went
to the High Court bench “ Soapy ” Gray took his
place. “ Soapy ” Gray is just like his colleagues,
and they are just like “ Soapy ” Gray. The five
N.S.W. Senators who went in with O’Connor in
1901 have retained their places ever since. N.S.W.
hasn’t made a single change in its senatorial
crowd since the beginn.ng of things, barring
the change that was rendered necessary by
O’Connor’s retirement. It presents a lamentable
instance of the working of purely machine
politics. The machine hands out certain names,
and the people accept them with wooden sub-
missiveness. Of the six N.S.W. delegates to the
Senate one rose in previous days to the dignity of
an inferior portfolio in a second-rate State Minis-
try, but his constituency presently threw him out.
The others were never considered fit even for
that stunted elevation. No one ever dreamt of
making Neild assistant-doorkeeper to the Cabinet,
or appointing Pulsford to be Honorary Minister
with the job of keeping the window shut during
Executive Council meetings. And they never
made one bright remark among them, nor did
they ever write anything brilliant—though
Neild once perpetrated a book of “poems’'
which shook the country with mirth. Two of the
N.S.W. Senators were, at the time of their election,
not even known in State politics, nor were they
known in literature, in art, or in connection with,
public movements of any kind. They weren’t
conspicuous in religious circles or in horse-
racing. They were just names, and very ordinary
ones at that. The policy of the party machine
was to select six men who were Freetraders and
Tories—six dull, ordinary, wooden, unoriginal
men of the party hack description—and the fool
State has returned them woodenly ever since.
They have made so little impression that 99
people out of 100 can’t even remember their
names any more than if they were six crows on a
fence, but still they have been returned. It is
impossible to imagine that this system of purely
machine politics can last for ever, and it may be
that next year will see N.S.W. return its very
first Labor senator. It would have a better
chance if the State Labor party were not
so Tory, so petrified, so parochial, so anti-
Austraiian, ! and so much in the habit of
being a ' mere echo of Wade, and if it
would suppress the wretched member who alludes
to Federation as a curse. The N.S.W. State
Labor party ranged itself alongside Wade in de-
fence of the financial policy of Joe Cook and
Bruce Smith, and of the Tory Senators Neild
and “Soapy” Gray and Pulsford, and in bitter
opposition to the financial policy of. Fisher and
his Federal Labor colleagues. In most other
questions which have arisen of late between Com-
monwealth and State it has been more on the side
of Neild and Gray and Pulsford than on that of
Fishf.R and Federal Labor. In fact, whatever its
precept may be, the practice of the N.S.W. State
Labor party seems to be to teach the electors to
vote against the Federal Labor party, and the
spectacle of State Labor member Holman, whose
State Frights and Foreign-trade and anti-defence
ideas bring him much closer to Neild and Puls-
ford and Gray than to Andrew Fisher, appear-
ing on the platform alongside of the Fisher
party’s senatorial candidates was a bad omen.
These things don’t make for success, yet success
may come all the same.
On Strike.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Lord Boodle’s gone and cut his throat” —the
bright World didn’t care,
“Two barons died of whisky.” He just calmly
brushed his hair.
“ Six countesses eloped with six poor butchers ”
there’s a stir;
And Mrs. World told Mr. World it didn't trouble
her !
“The king is dead, the duke is broke”; they
didn’t mind a bit—
But when the miners went on strike they dropped
down in a fit.
Care ? Who cares ?■ It's nothing to me or you
Whatever the lords and earls and dukes, or kings
and princes do!
Bui when a, stoker shifts his bunk or when a miner
stops
That hits his solar plexus , and the World — just —
flops!
Says Mrs. World to Mr. World: “This is a
dreadful thing ! ”
Says Mr. World to Mrs. World: “What
trouble it will bring ! ”
Oh, where are trade’s great captains and the
princes of finance?
They’re paralyzed with wonderment and to the
office prance.
Of the many hungry children and the mothers
they recite
Some pathetic little stories all about the poor
folks’ plight—
They forget that no child-hunger in soul-tragedy
compares
With the devilish gold-hunger that is theirs —
always theirs.
Care ? Who cares ? The children starve to-day
So that some future children ivill not have such
hell to pay !
Oh, sell the polished horses, send the footman “ on
the land ” ;
The man that's digging in the dirt has got you in
his hand I
Oh, I’m a “mass” and you’re a “mass,” but
they’re the starring troupe,
Who square the Lord by passing us some greasy
winter soup !
They greet us on election day, and grieve with all
their heart !
They give us tears and charity, but not a level
start !
Care ? Who cares ? It’s nothing to me or you
Whatever the lords and earls and dukes and kings
and princes do. l
But when a stoker shifts his bunk or when a miner
slops —
That gets the solar plexus, and the World—just—
flops!
victoria.
F. M.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary)
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow. 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney:
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Pictures and Machines at your
door. We are Agents for the Greatest Makers.
Send for our New Illustrated Gine. Catalogue.
HARRINGTONS LTD., “ 8 r S“ r o! S
and at Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
&
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
W. M. Hughes, Strike-Leader and
Canberra-ite.
Hughes, member for West Sydney in the House
of Representatives, is conspicuous just now in two
ways—he is a prominent advocate of the awful
Canberra capital site, and he is a fairly vigorous
supporter of the Newcastle miners in their present
trouble. Under these circumstances, The Bulle-
tin draws his attention, with all due respect, to
the following clauses :
(1) The seat of Government of the Commonwealth shall
be determined by the Parliament and shall be within
territory which shall have been granted to or acquired by
the Commonwealth and shall be vested in and belong to
the Commonwealth, and if New South Wales be an
Original State shall be in that State, and be distant NOT
LESS than 100 miles from Sydney.— Federal Constitu-
tion, Clause 125.
(2) If any person (a) does any act or thing in the nature
of a lockout or strike, or takes part in a lockout or strike,
or suspends or discontinues employment or work in any
industry, or (b) instigates to, or aids in any of the above-
mentioned acts, he shall be liable to a penalty NOT
EXCEEDING £lOOO, or, in default, to imprisonment NOT
EXCEEDING two months.— N.S.W. Industrial Disputes
Act, Clause 52.
Now, Mr. Hughes, when clamoring to have the
Australian capital fixed at Canberra, as near as
possible to his own constituency, has always main-
tained that the words, “NOT LESS than 100
miles from Sydney,” mean that the capital should
be as close to the 100-mile limit as possible.
Therefore, if he by any chance gets into bad
trouble through his encouragement of the New-
castle miners’ strike, it is to be hoped that he will
recognise that the law which says he is to' be
fined NOT MORE than £lOOO, or jugged
for NOT MORE than two months, means that
he should be fined as near £lOOO or gaoled as near
to two months as circumstances permit. In fact,
if he is a logical and honest legislator, he will put
this view of the case before the Court and quote
his own Canberra arguments as a precedent.
Further, Mr. Hughes professes to believe that
the clause which says the Seat of Government
must he not less than 100 miles from Sydney
means that the tail end of it may legally be at
Jervis Bay, 87 miles from Sydney, which is 13
per cent, below the specification. Consequently
it is his duty to notice that the law which says he
nwy be fined NOT more than £lOOO or shut up for
not MORE than two months really means
that he may be fined £ll3O or gaoled for two
months and eight days. On strictly logical
grounds it seems as if a lot of light might be cast on
the Canberra Federal capital question if Mr.
Hughes were fined £ll3O, with the alternative of
two months and eight days.
George Reid, after posing for many years as one
who scorned small baubles, has taken a knight-
hood in his old age. The S. M. Herald assumes
this to mean that his appointment to the High
Commissionersliip is fixed. Agent-General Tozer,
of Queensland, was a knight, and so is Agent-
General Taverner, of Victoria, and in the
Herald’s idea it is a fitting thing that the repre-
sentative of all Australia should have the cheap
grocery title also. Under better circumstances
Reid’s penny decoration should debar him (like
Forrest and Best) from even being considered as
an applicant for the job in London, but there are
no better circumstances now—only Fused circum-
stances. In any case Reid’s appointment would
be a hideous jest. He is a Foreign-trader in a
Protectionist community ; a Tory among a demo-
cratic people; a man of little dignity and scant
knowledge ; a heavy humorist; a person with such
a narrow outlook that he hasn’t yet learned that
Australia exists ; a sleepy old man with a comic
eye-glass and an infantile love for sweets. On his
merits, B. R. Wise, of N.S.W., has 20 times as
good a claim as either Reid or Forrest can show.
But Wise isn’t in the Federal Parliament. He
isn’t either a follower who has to be placated lest
in his rage lie should go over to the Opposition, or
an infuriated opponent who has to be got out of the
way. And that is bad for Wise. It is equally bad
for Coghlan, the N.S.W. Agent-General, whose
qualifications for the Commissionership are also
far ahead of those of Forrest or Reid. Of
course, it may prove that Reid’s trumpery title is
really meant to pacify him for not getting the
Commissionership. When an ex-Premier gets
down to habitually addressing girls’ schools, he
has reached a point at which it should be possible
to buy him off cheaply.
«.
The notice paper of the State Parliament of
N.S.W. is something of a joke. It contains pages
and pages of notices hy private members re the
small personal woes of their constituents—the
demand of Samuel Slumkey, M.L.A., for aselect
committee of nine members “and the Mover ” to
inquire into and report upon the case of Henry
Gollop, who was called an ass by the night-
watchman in charge of the Government tank at
Daddylonglegs, and things like that. There are,
at the most, a few hours every week allowed for
private members’ business, so the matter of
Henry Gollop may be republished daily on the
notice paper for years before anything is done with
it. Often the member dies, or Gollop dies, or
the night-watchman dies, before the matter is
reached, and after being a thing of scorn and
contempt on the notice paper for two or three
sessions it passes into oblivion. This sort of
thing gives strangers a very humble opinion of
the dignity of the State Legislature; and it
seems a pity that that body doesn’t appoint a
sort of permanent court, which will tackle the
trouble of Henry Gollop right off, and end it in
a day one way or another. As a case in point,
the following item caught the writer’s eye on the
notice paper weeks and weeks ago, and he has
got in the habit of looking for it (and always find-
ing it) till it has grown to be an old friend :
O. 56. Mr. Dooley to move, —
(1) That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire
into and report upon the dismissal of Mr. George
Bodkin from the deviation works at Clarence.
(2) That such Committee consist of Mr. Waddell, Mr.
Cann, Mr. Gilbert, Mr. Brtser, Mr. Gillies, Mr. Page,
Mr. Meehan, Mr. Graham, Mr. McGarry and the Mover.
The world is full of men as good as George
Bodkin who have been sacked from more valu-
able jobs than the deviation works at Clarence.
Also there are plenty of better men than Henry
Gollop who have been called worse animals than
an ass by individuals of lower status than the
night-watchman at the Government tank at
Daddylonglegs. This habit of rushing to the
local member has three bad results : (1) It makes
Parliament ridiculous; (2) it makes the local
member a mere local potterer after small personal
grievances, and unfits him for large national
affairs; (3) it often changes the plaintiff—who
should simply have hit the night-watchman on the
nose and then laughed and passed on —into a per-
son who broods over a small grievance and spends
his time waiting for redress like the individual
with an interminable suit in Chancery. And
none of these results are desirable.
♦
N.S.W. State Assembly did a characteristically
stupid thing last week, in connection with the
Defamation Bill, by passing aelause which provided
that a newspaper proprietor shall hand over the
name and address of the writer to anybody who
“has commenced an action ” for defamation. Of
course, the proprietor won’t hand over the required
information, in which case—
Any person affected may apply to a Judge of the
Supreme Court, who may, if he sees fit, after hearing
such proprietor, direct that such name and address be so
supplied.
One of the objects of the Bill is supposed to be to
protect the newspaper proprietor from harassing
suits instigated or commenced by blackmailers;
but, instead of doing that, this makes room for a
new sort of harassing and a new set of Costs. The
country paper-man, who mostly has to battle
hard for his crust, will, moreover, suffer most,
because he will be farthest from “ a Judge of the
Supreme Court.” And, anyhow, if the Assembly
knew the first thing about newspaper-manufacture,
it would know that four-fifths of the stuff that is
printed isn’t printed as the writer wrote it; the
sub-editor hacks it in MS., and the editor trims
it in proof; and often between times it is passed
over to a specialist, who re-writes the whole
thing and puts a bit of himself into it. Under
the circumstances, Heaven only knows how
the newspaper proprietor is going to supply the
“ name and address of the writer.” To get out of
the difficulty he will probably hire a person
named Brown or Smith to take the responsibility ;
and either Brown (or Smith, as the case may be)
will be employed about the office doing odd jobs
at sweeping or tidying up; or his services as
Nominal Writer of Everything will be bought for
a small sum per diem, and his address will be the
Domain. At present the publisher, who mostly
is a person of some serious responsibility, has to
print his name on every paper he issues ; and how
it is going to help a litigant to get, in addition to
that, the name and address of the irresponsible
Brown, of the Outer Domain, only the cranky
N.S.W. Assembly knows.
♦
The cable reports that Louis Brennan, the Aus-
tralian, has at last had a trial trip with his single-
rail car, 40ft. long by 10ft. wide, with 40 passen-
gers on board ; aiid the cable adds that the freight
“changed sides while the car was in motion,”
and the thing presumably kept its top-end up.
That test means the sudden transfer of about
three tons from one side to the other, and it’s a
steady car which can stand that. Brennan has
apparently completed his experiments with small
models, which he has been at work on since 1903.
His great difficulty was to get round curves ; for
that it was necessary to use two gyroscopes turn-
ing in opposite directions in a vacuum, so that if.
by any accident, the driving power were cut off
from them, they would continue running for two
or three days by their own momentum. In 1907,
so impressed was the British War Office
with Brennan’s invention that it appro-
priated £6OOO to help him build his first
full-sized car (presumably the one just tried),
and gave him the use of the torpedo factory
at Chatham. That presumably gives the W.O.
the first call on the invention for military pur-
poses, and would mean an enormous advantage in
a land war; and not in war alone, but also for
transport in peace. Brennan’s success brings
nearer the day when the whole of the world’s
present railways will be due for the scrap-heap ;
and when that happens Cohen will address some
urgent inquiries to Australia with regard to the
“ permanent ” undertakings in which his millions
have been sunk. And, shortly afterwards, Aus-
tralia may begin to wonder what sort of an ass it
was not to have built up a sinking fund by the
Canadian banking system or some other method.
♦
As McGowen, the N.S.W. State leader, grows
narrower, Prendkrgast, of Victoria, grows
broader and develops the big Australian senti-
ment. He attended the usual meeting of the
North Melbourne branch of the P.L.C. the other
night, and, speaking to a motion that “the ques-
tion of unification in a modified form be brought
before the next Labor Conference,” declared that
“it was full time State Parliaments, including
Governors, were abolished. It would mean the
wiping out of the State Rights and little-Austra-
lian crowd, the defeat of those whose Sole aim was
to grab concessions for their States, and it would
mean the encouragement and establishment of a
broad Australian sentiment.” “Labor,” he went
on. “had no use for the State Righters; the
unions had already quitted the narrow confines
and were federating as fast as they could.” And
if Prendergast had spoken a few days later
he would have been able to illustrate why
they were federating. Within 24 hours of the
time when trouble started at Newcastle, the
Moonta men, away round in S. Aus., were told
that they would have to knock off work, too—the
owners didn’t think they ought to use up all the
coal on hand, in case of accident. Also it wasn’t
48 hours before men in Melbourne and Brisbane
were told to go home —there wouldn’t be any more
work for them till the strike was over. Under
those circumstances men probably began to realise
that it didn’t matter much to them whether they
lived on one side of the Murray or the other ; they
were part of one big industrial machine, and not
of half a dozen machines. And most of them
know enough about machinery to realise that you
can’t have half a dozen authorities bossing one
machine and making a success of it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury."
Her Majesty’s “ A Country Girl.”
Criterion “Othello.”
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Bijou Picture Palace. Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her. Majesty’s “ The Lady Dandies.”
Theatre Royal “The Girl Behind the Counter.”
Kino’s “ The Bondman.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Building West’s Pictures.
The Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
Wirth’s Olympia King’s Pictures.
A mighty army of the Old Timers rolled up
to Sydney Royal on Saturday night to once more
greet Titheradge as Wilfred Denver in “ The
Silver King.” “The best of all dramas ! ” they
said, as they rushed for the best seats and
struggled at the doorway. Men who have not
been to a theatre for years battled in, careless of
whose feet they wrecked on the way. And they sat
out the five acts and 13 scenes with great
joy. Truly our fathers loved much for
their money and saw that they got it.
“The King” has one specially redeeming feature.
It tells a coherent story, and its leading char-
acters are not the imbeciles who usually inhabit
the land of melodrama. The idea of Wilfred
Denver being haunted by the eyes of the man he
only thinks he slew is ingenious. Also the frantic
request to the Deity to put back the universe
and give Denver his yesterday is true to
life. The eyes of the last two men writer
slew have frequently proved very trouble-
some ; and that yearning to live yesterday
again has been felt by many a man. Dick
Meagher expressed it in the Assembly when he
found he had made an ass of himself over the
Dean case. And almost everybody has at one
time or another uttered the same wish in some
language or other—mostly other. These things
give the play an atmosphere of veracity, which is
a rare thing, and when found should be made a
note of.
Young men who make up for the part of
old men are common enough ; but in this case
Titheradge, who is no chicken, finds himself
called upon to assume the part of a young man
going uneasily and drearily to the dogs. That he
does it well goes without saying. But it is in the
unpleasant scene, where he awakens from a
drunken sleep to find himself with a corpse
which he believes he has just created, that
he shines. It is a difficult position, which
would find the average man too flabber-
gasted to do anything but leave hurriedly.
Titheradge doesn’t. He behaves with excellent
taste, covers up the newly-made dead with due
respect, and makes a very few appropriate re-
marks. The manner in which Dion Titheradge
takes the part of Henry Corkett suggests that the
young man must have kept quite a lot of low
company for purely artistic reasons. No other
motives are insinuated. The part of Daniel
Jaikes is a hard one to speak of. His courageous
helplessness moves one to anger and pity, and
it is a tribute to Eardley Turner’s handling of the
part to say that he makes. Jaikes a very real
character, who rouses emotion in the human
buzom. Miss Ethel Warwick is a very pretty
Nellie Denver ; but there is a tendency to stagi-
ness, a disposition to scream, shriek, yell and
howl, that makes one feel after lie has got into
the street that he has been putting in an hour in an
asylum for the insane. There are a few other sug-
gestions which might be offered, but space presses,
and they are abandoned.
Nellie Stewart, who is the friend and
favorite of all Australia, comes to the Royal on
Saturday to play the orange girl of Old Drury,
who captivated Charles 11., the harsh-faced
monarch with the dog under his arm. Charles is
sentenced to hard carrying of his dog for 14 days,
and then “Zaza” will supervene.
-Sfc
The burnished countenance of “ Othello ”
shines with a black radiance at Sydney Criterion
before crowds that are as large as the building
will permit. The management blows its own
needless trumpet in the advertisements to the
effect that “the intensity of the acting thrills the
audience.” etc., which is mere waste of space, for
everybody in Sydney knows that now. The
spacious murky countenance of the Moor has
all at oncg become an institution. One looks for
it, just as he looks for his boots outside the door in
the morning. Desdemona dies neatly and grace-
fully; it is not an untidy end like that of the
person in “ Hedda Gabler,” who slew himself in
the stomach. In olden days, apparently, a hus-
band’s authority amounted to something, and when
he ordered his wife to die quietly she just did so.
In the present degenerate age a Desdemona has
to be dragged all over the furniture' before she
consents to expire, and her shouts for the police
disturb the symmetry of the neighborhood.
“Othello” is gentlemanly and polished homi-
cide ; it would represent murder as a fine art if
only the slayer had made wise provision for the dis-
posal of the body. This is an oversight on his
part, and he will continue to show the same
sorrowful lack of prevision at the same address
until further notice.
* * * *
“ The Country Girl ” is still romping in a
care-free fashion at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, and
the managerial “Coo-ee!” that will call her off
isn’t due till Friday (26th). The bright, shallow
music of “ The Girl” that entices the crowd will
ripple eight times under Conductor Fritz Hart’s
baton after this notice hits the public eye ; and
the public will continue to listen respectfully to
the bald-headed dialogue it knows so well when
the orchestra is resting between tunes. After
making allowance for the fact that the mostly-
new people are working with old stage
goods, it has to be admitted that the
present show does not soar qmte so high as tne
old one. Still it is a fine production, and the most;
exacting composer could not reasonably complain
that his music was not being handsomely ren-
dered. The “ fat' 1 of the piece is mostly the pro-
perty of W. S. Percy (Barry) and Ivy Scott
(Nan), and tliev make the most of the substance.
Herbert Clayton (Geoffrey Challoner) and Dorothy
Court (Marjorie Joy) improve on acquaintance, as
also do Victor Prince (the Rajah) and Olive Gocl-
win (Princess Mehelaneh). Lottie Sargent is
most commendable when she dances ; but there
never was a dance yet that wasn’t gayer than all
speech and most songs. An intelligent dance
expresses all the sentiments that mankind cannot
put into words. In a thousand years or so the
greatest poets will scorn writing materials ; they
will just caper their beautiful sentiments and
have them biographed.
“THE COUNTRY GIRL ” AT HER
MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Herbert Clayton (hero) and Grandfather Nabel
(gay dog).
At Sydney Palace the Scarlet Troubadours
are making the last nights of their brief farewell
season spin merrily away. By the time this
notice appears in print only Thursday and Friday
of the Palace lease remain to them. The amuse-
ment lover who is looking for diversion on either
of those evenings is hereby advised to seek out
the Pitt-street theatre. On Saturday, 20th, when
the Troubadours’ scarlet-lined cloaks and three-
cornered hats have vanished from the scene,
George Marlow’s co. will take possession once more,
and proudly display to the public gaze “The
Heart of a Hero.” The Bulletin has it on
the best authority that the play deals with
the abduction of a young girl by a villain, who
afterwards deserts the lady as soon as he
possibly can. The brother of the injured
damsel sets out in search of her, but only comes
up with the pair as she is slaying her betrayer.
The girl is arrested, but her brother lies like a
hero, and says his was the deed. He is hurled
into gaol, but eventually escapes, and is on ha,nd
for the happy ending about 11 p.m. The ending
is said to be unlike the conventional joyful con-
clusion, and The Bulletin is polishing its
spectacles in anticipation. It has become so tired
of seeing the hero and heroine pair off that it
yearns with a deep, fervid yearn for a change.
If the heroine doesn’t contract an alliance with
the comic policeman, and the hero lay his heart at
the feet of the gin-drinking washerlady, this paper
will mournfully grope for its hat and go home in
a depressed frame of mind and a pair of cold feet.
#* * *
H. Rickards has returned to the Common-
wealth with a sheaf of first-class contracts in his
breast-pocket ; but the first of the new turns is
only to start revolving on Saturday (20th). Mean-
while Sydney Tivoli is earning its nightly bread
with the same crowd of entertainers it has had for
the past few weeks. The acrobatic Trapnell
Sisters and Brother George are nearly half the
show ; and Dolly Harrner, the English soubrette
who burlesques the suffragette, is another quarter.
The remaining fourth is provided in small pieces
by the rest of the company, the most prominent
of whom are Guest and Newlyn, Bertha Stuart
and Fred Curran. The morning paper honorably
awards great praise to Fred Curran for being
humorous about shirts. Some of the fancy shirts at
present on view in Sydney outfitters’ windows de-
serve all the ridicule that can be heaped on them,
but the English comic-song writer is no dress-
reformer—he writes about the shirt merely
because it is underclothing, and the public shrieks
at the mention of it for the same reason. Present
scribe once attended an amateur performance of
“ Hamlet,” at which the First Gravedigger earned
tremendous applause and yells of merriment
simply by removing his coat and waistcoat on the
brink of the chasm. Hamlet hadn’t anything on
that he could safely take off, so he was coldly
received, and his remarks about Yorick fell as flat
as pancakes. If the Cheerless Dane could only
have taken off his boots and thrown them down
with a crash, or removed his collar and cast it
into the orchestra, he would have won out in
spite of the First Gravedigger. A remark
or two about shirts would have turned the
tide of disapprobation altogether and trans-
formed failure into triumph. ButShakspeare had
neglected to provide any underclothing jokes, and
the actor was too angry to invent some; so he had
to plod savagely through the evening and relieve
his rage by cursing in the wings. Sydney Tivoli
will get along with Curran’s shirt songs and the
above-mentioned turns until Saturday next, when
Mrs. de Dio—said to be an unusual dancer—
will help the bill to cheer up.
** * *
The above is the sun’s drawing of Miss
Louie Foulis, a pupil of Mr. Edward Sykes, whose
piano recital eventuates at the Y.M.C.A. Hall,


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL FIRE
*
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. g. HOWARD POPE Manager
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
D.O.M.
BENEDICTINE
The Liqueur with 400 Years * Reputation.
Bathurst-street, Sydney, on the evening of Novem-
ber 23. The young lady was born at Summer Hill,
and still resides there; although, presumably,
when she has made her name and her fame, she
will shift to furrin parts. Born of a musical
family, she has developed in a way that her
teachers regard as marvellous, and shows promise
LOUIE FOULIS.
Photo, by the Swiss Studio, Sydney.
of being one of the best of the great army of
musicians that Australia has sent forth all over the
world. Her cousin is the well-known violiniste,
Miss Lilian Foulis—the fortunate owner of the
beautiful Strad.—who visited Australia about
five years ago.
* *• -*
At Melbourne Royal a revival of “The
Girl Behind the Counter ” revealed no special
reason why the house should not have been
crowded instead of merely “full” on Saturday
n \Z ht. Two or three of the musical numbers are
of the rousing order. Another two or three are
very dainty, notably the “Won’t You Buy ” duet
between Miss Lincoln and Thorley. The well-
appointed chorus travels on traditional lines, and
the comedy has a plot of surpassing absurdity
winch is rarely missing from the proceedings.
JNearly everybody who is anybody in the perform-
ance can claim to be connected with the story,
though none of them behave reasonably except
iom Payne, who abstracts a fiver from
the cash-desk of the Maison Duval in
order to “shout” Essie Perrin to the Baron’s
Court Exhibition in the second act. As musical
comedies go, “ The Girl Behind the Counter” is
neither weak nor wonderful. About as much may
be said for and against the performance.
* * * m
Edwin Brett, as a gay old General with a
weakness for “nutty” things, is the mainstay of
the opening scene, and a valuable support of the
after part. Brett is the optimistic humorist who
fits his fooling to the character, whereas Crom-
well. as the scarecrow waiter, is the pessimist who
fits the character to his fooling. In this case they
represent the oil and vinegar in the salad
bowl, and they are not required to mix.
Of the rest of the company Miss Lincoln
and Harold Thorley fill their old places pleasingly,
Miss Rose is still insufficiently chic in style and
bright in vocalism to do full justice to her
important soubrette part, Miss Orford shows a
tendency to tone down her irritating affectations,
and the asperity of Miss Perrin’s diction is a little
less marked than before. Miss Daisy Belmore,
Tom Payne and Phil Carlton (more effective than
ever as the matter-of-fact commissionaire) are all
there again, whilst Arthur Crane is a new
Monsieur Duval, and Harry Sweeney wears the"
plum-colored suit of Viscount Gushingt*on for the
first time in Melbourne. Sweeney’s capable
performance suffers by comparison with that of
Bottomley. his predecessor; for Bottomley was in-
tended by Providence to impersonate the unspeak-
able Gussy of plum-colored fiction.
*# * *
The woosome Widow of the wicked waltz
is about to be withdrawn from Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne). On Friday night Sonia will finally
extricate Marsovia from the soup of insolvency,
and Natalie will wheedle her sweetheart in the
stuffy summer-house for the last time. Saturday
brings “The Lady Dandies,” and this will pro-
long the present season to the verge of the panto
period, which comes in with the Christmas
pudding, and usually goes out at the advent of the
Easter egg.
** * *
At the Princess’s to-night (Thursday) is
the farewell of Nellie Stewart and co. in “Zaza.”
The advertisement speaks of Nellie’s performance
as a “ remarkable realisation of a brilliant study
of frail womanhood,” and The Bulletin can
honestly recommend the drama as being “ nutty.”
And this is “Zaza’s” last appeal to popular taste.
On Saturday and Monday nights the Melbourne
Operatic Society will do its best with “The
French Maid ” on behalf of the Foundling Hos-
pital. A large array of distinguished patronage
is promised for the occasion, and a number of
floral tributes have been booked in advance.
** * *
The picture programme at Melbourne
Olympia this week serves up a fine item in a tour
through the French Pyrenees. The picture shows
some natural curiosities, such as Hell’s Cascade
and the Lake of 00. Turning from travelling to
morality, one has to sniff at the Tertium Quid in
“A Sin of Society,” and deplore the wickedness
of “A Pair of Desperadoes.” Also, there are
materials for guffaw in “A Vanishing Sports-
man” and “The Judge’s Whiskers ” ; and gloom
in the inevitable tragedy of “A Lost Sheep.” A
sheep that is buxom and edible is so apt to get
lost when she is brought up too piously.
ifc- *■ * *
Love and marriage are Taits’ principal
topics at Melbourne Glaciarium. The best pic-
ture on the subject is “ A Dash for Death,” which
provides the moral sensation of an unfaithful
husband dashing over a cliff in a motor to the de-
struction that awaits him. The greased facility
of Yankee divorce actions is hinted at in “ The
Seventh Day,” and the circus outbursts of Dago
passion make “ At the Altar ” a thrilling concep-
tion. Other pictures include the sights of Paris,
notes (in color) on a French vintage, and “ Her
Mother s Last Wish,” a simple little story that
pleads for a sympathetic tear from such as shed
them easily.
The Way of the Cross,” a picture now
at West’s Building (Melbourne), is a dreary tract
on the combat between Christianity and Pagan-
-ISP3 ’ i s customarily inconclusive, in so far that,
while the Pagans have the laugh on the Christians,
the Christians are not denied the ecstasy of going
to the lions. West is also showing snapshots of
mountaineering in the Engadine and sundry
‘{“ted glimpses of the tobacco industry, depicting
the birth, life and death of a modern cigar.
** * *
At the King’s, the somewhat dingy mili-
tarism of “ One of the Best ” is to give place oh
Saturday to “The Bondman.” In the meantime,
Lieutenant Max Maxwell is passing from disgrace
to rehabilitation as formerly, and Private Bland
Holt is waving hosiery on the end of a bayonet.
Ibis is a subtle jest on the part of Bland. The
meaning isn’t clear, but the gods of Melbourne
take kindly to the articles of footwear.
* * *• *
Ihe latest arrival at the Opera House is
one Bert Terrell, a ladylike vocalist who flits
around in scarlet and white habiliments, with his
golden hair a-tufted on his brow. By any other
name the vision would smile as sweet, but
Clarence would express him best. However, it is
*1? Bert that he yodels and trips and has his being.
His “turn” is artistic and brief—briefer than
many that are less artistic—but there is an
air of unreality about Bert. He looks like
a female impersonator who is wearing pants for a
wager. The Salome danseuse continues to shed
her wrappings freely in a dim light, and Franco
Piper and Harold Parkes and others are more
acceptable to some people than Winston’s seals.
The seals are evidently alive and probably in good
health, but, as far as this writer is concerned, they
diffuse an odor of auld lang syne across the foot-
lights, and recall an unpleasant episode. In fact,
they smell like a monster crocodile from Queens-
land, which had been alive but was dead when
it came to Melbourne. The writer paid 6d.
to see the croc., and has been suspicious of
amphibious animals ever since—especially in
warm weather.
** * *
“Jack and Jill” have run their short but
strenuous career at Adelaide Royal. The show
almost suffers from too much material. In the
Speciality Stakes it carries over-weight, so to
speak, and just when the charming or funny
people are about to show how attractive or comic
they really could be, they have to make way for a
ballet of skaters or ponies, or a picture-show of
surf-bathers, or some extravagantly beautiful
change of seasons or conglomeration of jewellery.
To get full justice for all, it ought to start
at 7.30 and finish to-morrow. The American
Boys have said their really final farewell, and
are moving along gradually towards Melbourne,
with an eye on Tasmania. West’s pictures are at
one of the places that were recently skating-rinks,
and Paris pictures are at the other: and now
Pathe pictures have broken out at the Town Hall.
The Hortons are doing some clever knife-throwing
at the Empire. This is the only variety house
open at present, but H. Rickards appeared in the
offiner one day last week and talked of unlocking
the Tivoli. h
Auckland (M.L.) received an unexpected
jolt on a recent afternoon when the Harbor
Board’s powder hulk disappeared from the face of
the waters in a cloud of smoke and with a bang
like that of the front door of Sheol when the
Devil comes home in a bad temper. Auckland
stood on the seashore mourning for the caretaker
and his wife, untd the nevvs was flashed round
that the pair had been found drifting about in the
hulk’s boat by a passing vessel which had brought
them safely to town. Details of the burst show that
the hulk caught fire in the morning, and that
the caretaker—after setting his missus adrift in
the row-boat—set to work desperately and tried
to scuttle the floating magazine. The lonely,
grisly job lasted till some time in the afternoon]
when the single-handed fighter saw that the
flames must beat him and that it was time to go.
So he dived overboard and swam hard toward
the boat with the anxious woman in it. Shortly
afterwards came the expected heaven-rending
crash, the deep was burst asunder, and the happy
home of Mr. and Mrs. Powder was burst up as if
a junk of Bruce Smith’s Socialism had hit it on
the waterline.
At the tail end of this issue will be found a
description of the mad rush of the world’s woolbuyers
for Australian wool. They all want it because it is the
best. But when the best wool in the world goes across
the seas it is liable to come back with strange things
mixed with it; and there is onlv one way to be
sure that your clothes are made solely of the
best material on earth. Have them of Australian
wool made into flannels and tweeds in Australia by Aus-
tralian workmen. Tell the tailor that you want Vicars’
Marrickville tweeds or flannels and will have no other.
Then in addition to being patriotic you will make
sure of getting the best material on earth. It isn’t so
much a matter of patriotism, after all, as of common sense.
“Melb.” : St. James’ old cathedral (Mel-
bourne) celebrated its diamond jubilee on Nov. 14,
and there were large doings. One thing I can
never get over is the simony by which, in the
generation before last, such an enormous grant of
land was snavelled and then misapplied. Oscar
Asehe, looking out of an upstairs window at
Menzies’ Hotel, asked: “Where is St. James’
school that I used to attend?” Echo answers
“ The school is shunted half a mile off, while the
land is ‘ utilised.’ ” The grant was of that mag-
nificent acreage bounded by Collins, William and
Bourke streets. About the year 1840 the Rev.
Putnam Smiff came worrying round to Governor
Latrobe to cadge this magnificent block. Of
course, he was referred to an official. Said the
official: “What do you want with all this land ’
I suppose you intend to build warehouses and get
about £5OOO a year.” Whereupon the Rev. Put-
n&m Smiff eld up his s ands in s orror. Said
he : “ How can you think so meanly of us ? The
land is all to be consecrated for Divine purposes ”
Now high warehouses cover the Collins, William
and Bourke street frontages, and the £5OOO a year
is roped in.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Facto” : There was no need for “ Vulcan ” to alarm
himself about the Williamsonian threat of bringing Beer-
bohm Tree to Australia. Old-man Wyndhain mav be"
expected, perhaps, but the odds against Beerbohm Tree
and co. following the example of Oscar Asche and co are
at least 50 to 1. Tree, although not a wonderful actor is
at least a brainy stage-manager who does nothing- that
isn’t done well. And as an actor he has scored <Teat
artistic successes. He’s a Jew. His Svengali wits a
strong performance, likewise his Fagin. And his Shy-
lock, in which character I saw him last year, struck nie
as being one of the most interesting and human Hebrew
moneylenders I had ever met. Tree overrates himself
rather absurdly. He tries to seem a more versatile actor
than he is. But the fact remains that for many vears he
has been giving mighty fine shows. It is on his reputa-
tion as a manager and “ producer” that he lives and con-
tinues to hold his own. Were he less solidlv established
there would be no difficulty about beguiling him to come
to Australia.
“ 0.K.Y.” : Under the pastoral crook of Rev. Hillhouse
Taylor, a meeting of local dramatists was held the other
day at Paling’s Buildings, Sydney. A society was founded
and a fund started to produce approved plays without the
aids of props or scenery, and with the assistance of unpdid
professionals or amateurs. The proposal looks harmless
and, unfortunately, hopeless. The societv is largely
feminine, and the chance of a lady writing a" first-rate or
even second-rate play is practically nil. Still more remote
is the chance of any person without previous close associ-
ation with the stage, preferably as an actor, producing
a dramatic success. At the present time there are
three kinds of dramatic product open to local talent
with a possibility of dollars attached.. They are : (1)
musical comedy of the “Maritana” type; (2) drama of
the “Silver King” brand; and (3) melodrama of the
“Fatal Wedding” variety. In their composition
literary merit is quite secondary. As reading matter
the modern dramatic money-spinner is mostly trash ’•
but (vital point !) it is successful because it is
trash, from a literary standpoint. An unknown Ber-
nard Shaw or Ibsen, if he got a play staged here, might
be praised by the critics, and, with luck, might just
cover cost of production ; but that is a kind of success
not worth bothering about. The serious writer is he who
lives on the game and provides for the public what it
wants. It is true that, after a long spell, Shakspeare
highly decorated, has a vogue ; but let no local Bill think
thereby he has a show in the divine William’s bluchers.
“ The Disastrous Nuptials,” or “ Robbery Over Feet ” are
the local champions all the time. The common delusion
which afflicts the literary person, after going to the
theatre, is that he could “ write much better stuff than
that.” This because, owing to dramatic ignorance, he
does not understand the limitations and necessities of
the business. Thus the present scribe cannot take
the new society seriously. It may prove a pleasant social
organisation ; but if its members really want work as
dramatists then let them first serve their time on the
boards and understand their business as other pro-
fessions are understood—by practical experience.
The power of Emma Calv6’s name in Australia is a hard
matter to estimate. The Taits are to import the famous
songstress next year, and for the ensuing few months she
will be talked of, as an impending star always is talked of,
in the newspapers. The showman’s business is to see to
that. But it is the long previous notoriety of a concert-
singer which counts when the box-plan comes into action.
Melba’s fame was nearly 15 years old ere she made her
first re-appearance in Australia. Clara Butt had been a
topic of conversation from the time when Ada Crossley
first got going in Britain, and Ada had, in fact, been a
steady advertisement for the Amazonian contralto for
years before the latter saw these shores. Calvd’s reputa-
tion thus far has been mainly restricted to the musical
world hereabouts. The public in general has heard of
her, but it hasn’t got her name printed in large type on
its mind. However, it should be a good name to boom.
Printed without the accent on the “e”it is likely to
excite curiosity and be remarkably mispronounced. It
should go well in the Cow Country. There it will be
called Emma Calf.
“ Cockaigne ” : Two obituaries—Pony Moore and Lionel
Brough. Pony died on October 1. He arrived in Eng-
land in 1859 and partnered with Burgess at Glasgow for a
little minstrel show which toured England. Burgess w’as
business manager and obviously the mascot. Thev
opened in London in 1862, and later moved to St. James’
Hall, where they stayed till 1904. Moore retired from
work in 1894. There were three brothers Brough—
Robert Brough, senior, William and Lionel. Robert,
father of our Bob and of Fanny Brough, died at a little
over 40. An intensely clever man was Robert, and a
ferocious republican. He joined with his brother William
in writing numerous burlesques. Robert was evidently
the genius, as William could afterwards not do much
without him. Robert’s widow, our Bob’s mother, was
Miss Romer, a vocalist. She was long known on the
Australian stage as an old-woman actress. After Robert
died she married one Gibson, a Scotch comedian. Their
child is Brenda Gibson, also well known to us. Lionel,
our Bob’s uncle, was an intimate friend of King Ed. He
did well on the business side, grew pretty rich and lived
in good style in London. His son, Sydney, acted in
Australia.
“F.C.”: Apparently the moving picture wanes. De-
spairing of getting into a theatre on Cup night, Mrs. O.
and I fell back on the pictures and got into a front seat
early. We need not have rushed things. There was less
than £3O in a house that could easily hold £l3O. Yet the
show was good and new, even the Cup films being wound-
off, five hours after Prince Foote had done his victorious
sprint. The faking of so many films has evidently soured
the public’s appetite ; unless a picture is obviously real,
like the Cnp or Henley, it is nowadays put down as fake,
and too much fake wearies.
When the last mail left London Pattie Browne was
doing a music-hall monologue at the Metropolitan ;
Carrie Moore was doing ditto at the Hippodrome; and
in Paris Bert Levy was sketching so brilliantly at the
Folies Bergeres that they had started to bill him as “ The
Australian Caran d’ Ache.”
“ Harrison O.”: Permit me to hurl the cat of ridicule
at the “Poverty Point” par by “Vulcan" (28/10/’O9), in
which he says: “If Williamson carries out his threat to
import Beerbohm Tree and Charles Wyndham next year,
this country will be invited to enthuse something-extra
over two middling mummers at the fag-end of their days.”
Admitted that Wyndham is 68 and has seen his best
mumming days; but to talk of Beerbohm Tree—s 6,
and young for his years—as being at the “fag-end” of
his life is T. Rot. At 56a mime is a mere juvenile. Henry
Irving was performing in fine style right up to the night
before he became the late Henry, and he was 67 when that
transpired. The three chief “beauty,” actors of Bull-
opolis (to wit, Lewis, Waller Forbes Robertson and George
Alexander) who play dashing young hero parts and
invite the public to consider them as being 21 or there-
abouts, are respectively 50, 56 and 51. The same applies
to the picture-postcard variety of she-mummer. It would
be awful to speculate upon the age of the allegedly
beautiful Marie Studholme, but I own a wicked old uncle
who is well over 60, and who boasts of having fallen in
love with Marie in the days of his wild and whirling
youth ; and Marie still plays soubrette parts, and has a
smile like the gate of Paradise. Moreover, Hermann
Vezin, at the age of 80, was capable of playing in Tree’s
recent Fogtown revival of “The School for'Scandal.”
An old woman and her elderly daughter, describing
themselves as countesses, popped up in Hungary lately
with a story of their wanderings in Australia. The senior
countess, who is 70, alleged that when her husband died
23 years ago she sold her estates to a neighboring aristo-
crat for £l6, although the property “ stretched for miles,
and included 20 villages.” Also she was so upset by her
domestic bereavement that, having spent the £l6, she
and her daughter joined “a party of gipsv musicians,”
with whom they journeyed to Australia. “In this new
sphere of life they were barely able to earn their bread,”
gipsy musical companies being no longer the rage of Aus-
tralia. So she took to selling herb teas and rural medi-
cines to the natives of the Backblocks, and the years
rolled on until she wisely determined to return to her
native country and take legal proceedings for the annul-
ment of the deed whereby she disposed of her 20 villages
at sixteen shillings apiece. This should be gratifying
news for all Australia, who may have met Countess
Haller and her daughter, Countess Etelka Lazar, as
wandering minstrels or herb-tea dealers. The Bulletin
has never heard of anyone who did meet them, but it
treats their yarn with the respect due to their noble
birth.
“E.M.Ii.” writes: “Melb” gives some instances of
play-bill humor (B. 28/10/’O9). Here is another. One
night recently, when the Bill Holterson co. was going
strong at the Barn Theatre, that eminent actor, Bedgood,
was in the next hotel having a drink before the perform-
ance. He presently became aware that he was the
object of much hilarity on the part of the other members
of the bar. Suddenly the reason dawned on him, and he
hilarited also. The theatre spruiker was telling the
public in a loud, distinct voice: “ Bland Anderholts
Dramatic Co.—Mr. Bedgood—Rapidly filling up.”
The figures for London’s 30 theatres during the past
year (August, 1908, to July, 1909) show only 48 new
productions (one-act pieces not counted in), besides 10
musical plays and three pantomimes. This is well under
the usual output, owing to the fact that about 20 of the
48 were financial successes, and kept on running. Only
one piece, “ The Merry Widow,” started beforehand and
ran right through the year ; but “ What Every Woman
Knows” and “The King of Cadonia”came near to it.
Twelve of the plays were imported. The American
“ Woman in the Case ” caught on at once, while “ Paid
in Full”—equally successful in New York—failed com-
pletely. The number of revivals was enormous. “The
Lyons Mail” ran half the year, and “The School for
Scandal ” nearly as long. Shakspeare (11 plays) had 213
performances all to himself. Various Hamlets accounted
for 80 of them, and Lewis Waller gave the spectacular
“ Henry V.” a run of 77 nights. The woman dramatists
had an amazing slump, after being highly successful in
recent years. They got only four plays staged, and all
our were dead failures !
“Jean Sibi”: The foreshores of Hobson’s Bay along the
South Melbourne-St. Kilda side are beginning to bristle
with entertainments, and it is hardly possible to stroll
about without colliding violently against some diversion
or other. Only lately another blessed skating rink and
some sort of amusement theatre sprouted up at South
Melbourne within a whiff of the briny ocean ; and Heaven
alone knows how many shows are preparing to bud on
St. Hilda’s moral strand. Three or four are battling on
the Esplanade, and others are doing likewise on the sands
of the seashore. It is only a long stride from one show
to another. There is too much show to pay, and then
the soft and shady sand dunes have a big pull and cost
nothing. Next to the dunes, by the way, I place the
jigger-8 in point of popularity. It is a crowded item, and
is generally loaded with muslin. I only dimly suspected
the cause of its attraction to females until a maiden told
me that rushing down an incline at a great momentum
was inexpressible—it felt very like being in love, only
more so.
“Dougal Cratur”: You haven’t struck yet the hunkiest
bit about Hairy Bandmann. He had the impudence to
play “Rob Roy ”in Glasgow ! The manager pulled his
leg beforehand with: “You know, Mr. Bandmann, we
expect everybody to act ‘Rob Roy’here.” Bandmann
staggered him with, “Of course! I blay everything—
everything. Just let me get behind de footlights in
‘ Robber Roy,’ and I tell you what. I villhave to put a clause
in my agreement, like Macready, dat I am only to play
‘ Robber Roy'’ one night, or otherwise you would keep me
at it all de time, and my ‘ Hamlet ’ and ‘ Narcisse ’
would not haf de jhost of a show. I haf studied Valter
Schott. You will observe in my ‘ Robber Roy ’ with what
a beautiful discrimination I drop de Scotch dialect in de
Tolbooth scene. Den I gif you de Scotch dialect in all its
beaudy when I come to de great scene of the Clachan of
Aberfoyle.” Well, there was a grand house and terrific
applause. “Oh, I put a leetle touch of humor
into ‘Robber Roy,”’ said Bandmann. “By thunder,
.vou do,” said the manager, on the Monday
morning'. “Now,” said Bandmann, pulling the Herald
or the Mail out of his pocket, “ see de beastlv ignorance
of dese Newspaper Crickets. Dis Cricket reflects on my
bronunciation. He says I said, ‘My food's upon my
native heed, my name’s Makrekka.’ A lie! A lie ! Upon
my soul a wicked lie ! Here is de boog of de blay. Look
here—dis page. It is Helen Makrekka who udders those
words. Not Robber Roy at all! So much for Mr. Cricket.
Off wid his head ! ”
DEPARTED JOYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, the crown of a king is a sacred thing—
The crown of his head I mean—
Not the crown of gold that was worn of old
With jewels of priceless sheen.
There s a naked glare on his cranium where
The diadem used to be,
For the load of care hath rubbed the hair
From the brow of His Majesty.
On the kingly face there’s never a trace
Of jollity or of mirth ;
But looks of pain and a deep disdain
For the trifling things of earth.
For his thoughts are cast in the ages past,
In the days when the world was red—
When his forebears stood in pools of blood—
Or else upon heaps of dead.
Then a king could laugh and shout and chaff
And swear till the air turned blue ;
With his comrades free, on a drunken spree,
He could go, like me or you ;
If it came to pass that a winsome lass
In the regal path should stray,
He would cease to roam, and would send her home
With a kiss at the break of day.
Oh, it’s hard to think that a king can’t drink
Or curse as a monarch should
That he has to walk on a line of chalk
And be watched by the dismal good—
That there is no scope for the greasy rope—
No heretic can he burn.
And the godless life and the frequent wife
Are joys that will ne’er return.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASLEY.
UNWILLING WILLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A clergyman, speaking of Sunday entertainments gene-
rally, said that some of the subjects at the moving picture
shows were quite out of keeping with the day. The
shows had become so popular that they were now held in
the afternoon as well as the evening. It was placing a
great temptation in the way of children who left home
with a penny for the missionary-box and spent it at an
entertainment. —Melbourne Argus (4/11/’O9).
When Willie makes for Sunday-school upon the Sabbath
day,
What pleasures wait to tear him from the straight and
narrow way!
When he is in his Sunday best, a stiver in his fist,
How frequent are the pitfalls Willie’s trippings to assist!
Unwilling Willie, toiling up the track of little joy,
With sadness in his soul—a most forlorn, ungrateful boy ;
To think that he, with horrid moving pictures on his
mind,
Should snare the sacred copper for the cannibal designed :
When Willie planked his pennies down, nor questioned
why nor how,
The cannibal uplifted was and did rejoice ; but now
When wilful Willie goes to grin at moving picture shows,
Whose cash will help the cannibals to goodness? Good-
ness knows!
Poor cannibal that once did well on missionary fried
Or boiled or fricasseed ! To think that he should be denied
His missionary meat, to make a holiday for him—
The kid who spends good coppers on a moving picture
whim !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Piles Rapidly Cured.
“I had been suffering from piles for sometime,”
writes Mrs. Maggie Munro, Cooper Street,
Balmain, N.S.W., “and had tried various oint-
ments, but only grew worse. I gave Rexona a
trial and was completely cured in four days.”
Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Surely there should he sufficient collective
intelligence in the Commonwealth to prevent
strikes by a process of equitable adjustment.
Wisdom fortified by the benign influence of
D.C.L. Whisky breathes the incense of glad
peace on the most erruptive proceedings. There-
fore disputes should always be referred to the
benevolent arbitration of D.C.L., the spirit of
wise progress.*
We have received particulars of four high-class
gravures issued by Bovril Limited, London, entitled:—
“ The Vicar of Wakefield,” by VV. Hatherell, R. 1.,
(exhibited in the Royal Academy, 1909); “The King’s
D -rby,” (1909); “ John Wesley,” by W. Hatherell, R.I. ;
and “This Little Piggie,” by Arthur Drummond. These
gravures are given free in exchange for coupons attached
to all bottles and jars of Bovril. Full particulars as to
the conditions of obtaining these pictures are given on
the leaflets wrapped round the bottles and jars.*
Right-Priced Ring's
of New Design.
HERE are a few of our newest rings. They represent all
that is best and most up-to-date in quality jewellery
ware. They’re well made, well finished, high-grade,
and priced in our inimitable money-saving way.
In short, they’re just the kind of rings one wants, at
prices which must appeal to every wise shopper.
This charming: design,
handsomely set and
beautifully finished, £lO.
The H. &K. 18ct. Gold
Wedding Ring, 20/- ;
heavier, 30/- and 40/-
PT" Catalogue and All Orders Post Free.
iBct. Gold all Dia-
mond Marquise Ring',
beautifully stoned,
fine finish, £l5.
M:
Handsome ISct. Gold
Diamond Cluster
Ring, £l3/10/-
Solid 18et. Gold Dress
or Engagement Ring,
3 lustrous diamonds,
£lO.
e»«o
Choice 18ct. Gold 3
Diamond King, 50/-
This beautiful Diamond
Dress or Engagement
Ring, £7/10/- Smaller
Stories, £5/5/-
HOLLINGDALE & KESSELL,
Watchmakers,
Jewellers, Opticians,
98 King Street, Sydney..
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
THE SALOME DANCE (VIEWED FROM
THE WINGS).
VIRTUOUS JOHNNY: “Can a woman like that be
good?"
BLATANT SINNER : “ Oh, clothes make no differ-,
ence. A good woman is a bare possibility,
and a bad woman is a naked fact.”
The N.S.W. coal owners have declined to
hold a conference with the miners unless the men
first go back to work, and the men very naturally
refuse, seeing that the owners haughtily and per-
sistently declined to confer when they were at
work ; so, to all appearance, conciliation is “ off.’*
This is natural; still it seems a pity that the men
didn’t try a counter proposal. It would have
been a fair thing to agree to the owners’ terms
provided the conference was held in a large,
specially prepared room (prepared under the
supervision of a Government coal-mining expert),
with an irregular ceiling that varied from 2ft. to
sft. high—the room to be totally unfurnished,
only lighted by a few candles, and to have dirty
water dripping from the ceiling, and the
conference to last eight hours, with one break
for lunch. Under these conditions, the owners
would acquire a better knowledge of what the
miner’s life is like, and would be better able to
size up the reasonableness of his demands. In
some cases the coal miner works his eight hours
lying down and swinging his pick horizontally,
because the seam is narrow, and it doesn’t pay to
take out anything except the actual coal, therefore
the roof is only 3ft. or so from the floor. Some-
times there is sft. of space so that he can work
doubled up but without actually lying down. The
writer once drifted casually down a N.S.W. shale
mine. It was dry, which made it better than
many mines. The roof was about sft. high, so
there was no excuse for going on all fours,
yet no chance to stand upright. There was a
crowd of men below—friendly, affable, intelligent
contortionists who took things in a kindly spirit,
and recognised that they were better off than
most men of their calling. The writer wasn’t
friendly, nor was he affable, and after an hour he
ceased to be intelligent. All he wanted, in the
misery of his doubled-up situation, was to get out
an d m u rder somebody, or aim ost an y bod y —inf act,
almost everybody. It is the customary attitude
of the coal boss to pretend inability to understand
why the ill-paid miner should worry so much
about “small grievances.” Yet, if he himself put
in a single day’s work under the same circum-
stances, he would probably be prepared to make a
grievance of anything, from the fly that got on his
nose to the Roman invasion of Britain about half
a century B.C.
Down in the bowels of the earth things are
“different.” Sometimes there is a question
about special payment for hard coal. Coal looks
very much the same in the scuttle, and if
one hits first a soft and then a hard lump
of it with a hammer amid the large, wild freedom
of the open air he doesn’t notice any great differ-
ence. Yet when a man in a dim light and a
cramped position is up against a wall of it, there
is a very large difference. Again, there is the
frequent question of the utterly uncongenial non-
unionist. Bruce Smith, who would scorn to
appear in court with an accountant or solicitor as
his junior because neither of them is in his union,
and Dr. Mackellar, M.L.C., who would sooner
perish than consult with the man who makes
Clements Tonic, however capable the latter may
be, can’t understand why the unionist miner
should object to the non-unionist. Yet if Bruce
Smith had to spend eight hours per day in the
gloom and slush and narrowness of underground
along with William Lyne or Joe Lesina, he
would probably become a heap more intolerant
than the most aggressive coal-miner on record,
and would want to go on strike until all demo-
crats and Protectionists were sacked. And there
are many other things that look paltry when
viewed from above, but which count for a lot
when considered from below. Even the proposed
distribution of the tariff revenue might not seem
the same to Willy Kelly if he considered it for
eight hours in an unnatural attitude, amid gloom
and moisture and rats and with grave doubts re
the security of the roof.
The report that the parsons were coming
out on strike by way of expressing their sympathy
with the miners proved quite untrue.
* * * *
They have been making some interesting
tests at Sydney’s big Prospect reservoir for a
couple of years past to find out how much more of
a chill a man would get if he tried to drown him-
self at the bottom of a tank than at the
top of it. There isn’t any time of the
year when it is colder at the top of
this reservoir than at the bottom,
though in midwinter there are days
when the temperature is the same all
the way down. In summer, however,
there is as much as 15 degrees differ-
ence. At Prospect the water generally
doesn’t get below 514 degrees ; in the
summer at the surface it is as much as
774 degrees. It doesn’t seem to get;
hotter than that no matter how long the
summer lasts ; but by March the whole
keg of water becomes pretty well
baked through, and in March, 1908. the
pot showed 70 degrees at 70ft. deep—
there was at that time only a differ-
ence of two degrees between the top
and the bottom. It occasionally hap-
pens in midwinter that the warmest
water is rather more than half-way
down—from 35ft. to 45ft. below the
surface. Intending suicides will please
note this. The Bulletin hates to
think of suicides shivering in their last
moments simply through neglect to ballast them-
selves properly.
* * * *
The first prosecution undertaken in
N.S.W. by a private co. under Wade’s In-
dustrial Disputes Act ended anyhow. The
South Clifton Coal Co. proceeded against
about 200 miners for leaving , work without
notice. The first case was heard at great length,
and the accused was acquitted. The second case
was heard at great length, and the sentence was
£1 fine or else gaol. Notice of appeal was given,
and it was explained that if the appeal failed
the accused would take it out. There were
about 198 more cases to be heard, and if all the
parties were convicted there would be 198
appeals. That would make 396 hearings. Then
if the appeals failed there would be 198 prisoners
with hardly enough gaol to put them in. The
sun was setting. There were about 190
men in court all asking when their cases
were to come on. They carried on friendly
conversation with the magistrate. Every-
body was more or less friendly—some of
them less. The company was tired of the busi-
ness. So was the magistrate. There was a tend-
ency to toss up for it. Finally, the co. gave its
accused employees 10s. each to say no more about
it, and paid their solicitor, and everybody went
affably away. By this time the sun had finished
setting. It was the only thing thereabouts which
seemed to take Greg Wade’s Act seriously.
*-**■*
The Queensland Official School Paper,
circulated for class-reading and stud}', never con-
descends to publish even a small patch of Aus-
tralian verse for its young Australians to digest.
It prefers such as this (vide November issue)
Children of the Empire, you are brothers all ;
Children of the Empire, answer to the call 1
Let your voices mingle, life up your heads and sing :
“ God save dear old Britain, and God save Britain’s
King ! ”
It’s awful tripe, and one sentence is evidently
misprinted, anyhow. Obviously the third line
should call on the little White Australian to
mingle his melody with that of Soojee Singh.
Then he would understand more clearly what the
first line meant. And some day he might
ask why brother Soojee Singh isn’t given a vote,
and what he is killing his brother white man for.
OBVIOUS ON THE FACE OF IT.
MRS. SMITH (noticing Mrs. Ryan with damages):
“ Ah, Mrs. Ryan, how fine it must be to hare
yer Good Man back with yer again—poor
woman!”
An industrial evil in Melbourne (and
many other places) these times is the excessive
employment of improvers in clothing factories.
The size of the trouble was vaguely hinted at, the
other day, when one Goldstein was fined the
staggering amount of £1 for employing 10 more
improvers than the law allowed. Goldstein is
only one of many who make profit out of an ex-
cess of cheap female labor. A characteristic
of every city is the cheap tailory which offers
the passing stranger a complete suit of clothes to
measure for 80s. or thereabouts, and the Law
might well inquire how the deed is done, seeing
that a man who pays fair wages would have a
mighty struggle to supply the goods for £2 ss.
This is a case in which the law is fully justified in
keeping its eye fixed to the keyhole of Cohen
Hebrewstein, but the work is mostly waste effort
when the State keeps sympathetic J’s.P. to assess
the fine at £1 or less.
Once again has
Private Enterprise
shown vvhata bene-
factor it can be to
“ our great natural
resources ’’ when it
really is a trier.
Awhile back but-
ter - boxes were
buyable at Is. Id.
each. Private En-
terprise looked
hard at the slip-
pery subject, and
diagnosed cash
therein if properly
handled. There-
upon Private En-
terprise made
move one; it
bought up all the
available boxes
that the Sydney
factories could
produce. Next
Private Enterprise
made move two ;
it told the butter
producers that
there were heaps
of boxes to be had
—at Is. 6Jd. each.
This swift and un-
expected soar of
so moved one
manufacturer of
the stuff we use
dripping instead
of when we can’t
get )t, that he
forthwith rushed
into the S. M.
Herald about it.
But either he deli-
berately hung the
monkey-wrench on
the safety-valve of
his wrath, or else
he was an astonish-
ingly mild-mannered
sort of cow person,
for the tallest language lie mounted to was that
the rise was “ uncalled for.’ In the circum-
stances, many a man who never addressed
“ Strorb’ry ” or “Poley” in lus life would have
got as high as 11 really uncalled for” at least.
•* * * *
“ Lantana ” : In the Smoky City, Lady
Cardigan’s “My Recollections ”is the rage. The
vivacious authoress owns up to 84 years, and has
lived all her life to the full. She was a daughter
of Spencer Horsey de Horsey, and wife of the man
who said, “ Here goes the last of the Cardigans”
at Balaclava. That is, he was one of her hus-
bands and she was one of his wives. She had just
time to get out of her bed and slip on her dress-
ing-gown when the hero of Balaclava bursty into
her room, and, taking her in his arms, said, “My
dearest, she’s dead. ... Let’s get married at once.
“She” was, of course, Cardigan’s first wife.
Disraeli was another suitor. The lady owns up
to a certain fondness for the oiled Hebrew, .and
regarded his proposal rather seriously; but her
uncle (Admiral Rous), King Ned (then Prince of
Wales) and Dizzy’s bad breath conspired against
him. This is the first public news or reliable
diagram of Dizzy’s breath. She is equally frank
about her acquaintances, and digs up long-
forgotten scandals and episodes. The Smart Set
shudders, either personally or per medium of its
maid, at the book, but the first edition sold in two
days ; the second was all ordered in advance, and
the third is going off furiously at 10s. 6d.
Something of the inner and non-spiritual-
istic life of Mrs. Annie Turner, one of Mel-
bourne’s “clairvoyants,” has been revealed in
the Divorce Court. Gentle Annie, aged 47>
sought (and obtained) a decree nisi against her
husband on the ground of desertion. His defence
was that all the trouble had been caused by Pastor
Abbott, who ran a “marriage bureau” at Mrs.
Turner’s house, and is said to be “advance
agent” for her herbal medicine and spook busi-
ness. On one occasion, it seems, he came to
blows with the pastor, and, according to the evi-
dence of that holy man, he got the worst of it.
After that he went on the land, but continued to
correspond with his inspired missus. Quite
recently he wrote to her :
I will take you to America on condition that you have
no more truck with old Abbott. What about the Mel-
bourne Cup this year? Does “Betsy” know who is
going to win ? If so, let me know. I am going to the
Cup, and want to make a pound.
Which suggests that the clairvoyant’s husband
was sceptical re the occult powers of his wifes
familiar spirit, “Betsy,” having learned from sad
experience that her tips were not good enough to
put his socks on. One of Mrs. Turner’s letters to
the base deserter was also flippant in tone :
Arrived home yesterday. I brought home £335, and
put it in the bank. is it? You would have
laughed last night to see nig buried in flowers.
The flowers, presumably, were tributes from Mrs.
IVs Melbourne dupes in celebration of her return
from Sydney, whither she had gone after being
prosecuted by the Melbourne police for practising
the same fraud which is still practised with im-
punity by the notorious Mrs. Rising. However,
the Court has now deprived Turner of his marital
right to share Sarah Ann’s bed of flowers.
PRESERVED SECRETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The police have maintained the utmost reticence on the
matter, and the first inkling of the escape and re-capture
was obtained yesterday, when Dick was charged at the
Richmond court with the theft of the groceries. It
appears that a departmental inquiry into the escape is
pending', and that three constables will be arraigned on
separate charges of negligence.— Melb. Age.
The greatest of all ’tecs is he
Who buries in quicklime
The dark and tangled mystery,
And pickles tales of crime.
The wisest of commissioners
Is he who won’t disclose
The backyard squabble that occurs,
And ruins someone’s nose.
For if the world hears of no wrong
Its heart is gay and light,
And as it rolls in peace along
It thinks that all is right.
Likewise it thinks the Eagle Eye
That ’neath a helmet lurks
Can at a ten-mile range descry
The crook and all his works.
Perhaps folks think my ear, when laid
Close to the trembling earth,
Makes sad Two-uppers sore afraid
And stills the forger’s mirth !
By plain, dull silence I achieve
This beautiful result ;
And thus my fame soars, I believe.
As from a catapult.
Except, of course, in cases when
The Press lets it be known
That from my corps of heavy men
A prisoner has flown.
Such items now and then appear—
And what gives most offence
Is that they’re grouped beneath this sneer—
“ Police Intelligence ! ”
N.S.W.
F. O. E.
CHAMPION LIGHTWEIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Tf AIR maid ,” said he; “itis my boast ,
d As I would have you understand ,
That I may hold my head (almost)
As high as any in the land!" 1
“As high ? ” quoth she. “ Why, bless my heart !
I could but think it very rum
If you did NOT, with all the start
Of such an empty crctn-i-um !f
N.S.W.
H. McC.


Consider Your Health.
The hard labour of ordinary washing
with ordinary Soaps, the steam from the
constant boiling, and the mischief done by
the injurious materials of which some Soaps
are composed, bring on a variety of com-
plaints. Such troubles can be avoided by
using Sunlight Soap which has the Guarantee
of Purity of Sir Charles A. Cameron, M.D.,
one of the most eminent analysts in the
world.
By the use of Sunlight Soap the exhausting
strain on the muscles of the back and arms]
and friction to the skin of the hands are
reduced to a minimum, for Sunlight Soap
works of itself. It washes silently, secretly
thoroughly "'
In most cases- shortness of breath is
caused by stomach trouble, and a safe and certain
cure for it is Chamberlain’s Tablets.*
IF you happen to be one of
those rare mortals who
LIKE boot-cleaning for the
time it takes, and you yet hold
of a tin of Cherry Blossom
Polish, you will, like Othello,
find your occupation gone. It’s
wonderfully quick in action
and very, very effective. Black
and Tan tins are sold by most
dealers for 3d. and 6d. each,
and anyone who wants to get
the best polish in the shortest
time should use Cherry Blossom.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
2
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
«F,
Xm
Peapes’Smart Guinea Panamas
In effect, our new Panamas show up-to-date
smartness. The illustration clearly indicates
the styles being worn by well-dressed men to-
day. The crowns are well squared, and the
brims are now edged with sharp turn-up,
which, when reversed, gives ample shade.
Widths are from to 3Jin. The fine
appearance of these hats makes them look
worth a lot more, and with an occasional
clean-up they will preserve that appearance
for two or three seasons. We despatch by
post to any Australian address, and exchange
if a better quality is desired.
each
Other prices: 15/6, 18/-, 25/-.
30/=, 35/-
Catalogue of Men’s Wear, mentioning other
styles, posted free.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Cable lie :
Reuter’s correspondent reports that It,ooo convicted
criminals who were enrolled in different French regi-
ments under the conscription law in October are comin<>-
into contact with respectable youths.
ranee at present lias about 600,000 men always
acquiring their military education. That means that
about 300,000 new men, all aged between 20 and
21, join each year, for the course lasts two years.
According to this amazing cable, last October
11,000 convicted criminals of a little over 20 years
were enrolled, they being all able-bodied youths
and capable of passing the medical tests, and
all having either finished their terms or
else broken out of gaol to join their regiments.
Allowing for the unfit (and criminals are largely
recruited from the physically and mentally unfit)
arid for those who didn’t get out of gaol in time,
it seems a fair thing to suppose that there were
15,000 criminals out of 300,000 young men who
reached the age of 20 last year. Assuming that a
career of crime commences at the age of 15, that
means that 5 per cent, of the French population
goes to the bad in five years, on which basis 35
per cent, of it, or about 13,000,000 people, would
be in gaol before they were 50. It looks too large
and wild altogether. Besides, there isn’t any
“ conscription law ” in France. "
ON THE MELBOURNE BLOCK.
Vulcan : With a view to sampling the
horseless future beforehand, Westminster (Eng.)
Council proposes shortly to order all horses off a
given area for a day (probably a Sunday),
and examine the result for cash (and other)
economics. The result is expected to be astonish-
ing. According to sundry London authorities,
the present vogue of the motor has already
effected a saving of as much as £lOOO a year in
street scavenging in some districts; and the pro-
posed horseless day is expected to show that the
abolition of the moke will lie a small gold-mine.
BRUTE STRENGTH.
LIGHTWEIGHT: "' Ere , did you say I
PULLED your blanky ’orse ?”
OWNER: “ Well, not exactly pulled him. But you didn’t push him!”
Of all the people who have given evidence
before the Vic. Parliamentary Committee in favor
of the Daylight Saving proposal (which seemingly
has no opponents to speak of), the best witness
was Frank Tate, Director of Education. Tate
said “ his department wag convinced of the sound-
ness of the scheme. It would be of immense
benefit to children in the country, who, by hav-
mg to attend school an hour or more earlier,
would escape the drudgery of a great deal of farm
work they were now compelled to perform before
they left home. The Wimmera District Teachers’
Association had already asked leave of the De-
partment to allow the attendance of children at
the schools an hour earlier, provided their parents
had no objection. In addition, if attendance
at continuation schools for older children should
be made compulsory, much of their work might
then be done in daylight.” Incidentally, Tate
mentioned that he had put the Daylight Savin"-
scheme into practice at his own home by moving
at i ian(^s of clocks an hour forward.
Nobody detected the experimental fraud until the
clocks in the neighborhood drew attention to it.
Here was another practical reminder of the fact
that we are not so much slaves of Time as ereatures
of the Clock. The world goes by clockwork,
there are no time-tables, as was cheerfully ad-
mitted by 1 ait, of the Vic. railways. Trains are
regulated by clock-tables, and an hour of fresh
young daylight could be clapped on the head of
the working day, whilst an hour of stale daylight
was subtracted from the tail of it, without necessi-
tating any alteration in the departmental tables.
.Eiven as the Lord said: “Let there be light!”
and there was light, so the Commonwealth
e i ? 111 n 1 1 cc)u Id say: “Let 8 o’clock p.m. be
■1.15 . And we would put the clock on, and the
7 o clock whistle would blow at 5.45 next morning.
knell : “Jawn” Madden has the credit
of having inaugurated and sustained the worst
btinking Fish chorus that has struck Victoria for
many years. Jawn’s feverish idea that young
Australia is going precipitately to the Devil is a
defiance of all available moral and criminal statis-
tics; but Jawn sticks to it, and his anguished
cries amount to wholesale imputations of infamy
thrown into the face of the people. The com-
munity remains calm, and discusses the beehive
in Jawn’s bonnet without heat ; but the crying
of decayed whales along the highways and
byways by a stout indignitary in a Chief Jus-
tice’s wig has given great joy to the Wood-
fulls and other dancing dervishes of social
purity, and little, red, rash moralists are
breaking out upon Melbourne like an in-
fliction of measles. Each one is eager to
discover fresh evidence of awfulness
in the precocious Australian female, and
there was never more peeping and pry-
ing, or so much night-creeping in parks
and gardens, or so great a run on gim-
lets. It is not easy to forgive Madden
this maddening crowd. He should have
known that a rabid effort to raise morals only
raises a crop of moralists.
The Sydney Marine Court recently decided
one of those solemn problems with which it is
periodically afflicted. About two months ago a
steam lighter ran into a Lavender Bay ferry boat,
and evidence showed that the lighter was the
responsible vessel. Then the admiral of the
lighter proceeded to explain. He was master,
engineer, fireman and crew, with a lad to assist
him. In a crowded part of the harbor the boiler
suddenly called for assistance. It gave notice
that it would blow up immediately if not attended
to The boy knew practically" nothing about
boilers, and apparently just as much about steer-
ing ; but if he was set to steering it was possible that
other vessels would keep out of his way, whereas
if he was sent to the engineering job it was certain
the boiler wouldn’t keep out of his way or anybody
else’s. Moreover, it seemed better for the boy to
die in the open air. So the commodore fled to the
boiler. The boy stood on the lighter’s deck
whence all save he had fled, and with his hair
standing on end and a wild look in his eye, drove
™ vessel into the most convenient ferry boat.
Ihe Marine Court decided that the master of the
lighter was absolutely blameless and that he
couldn’t have done anything else than what he
u tl ? en fitmd him 425. from force of
habit. It didn’t fine the owner of the vessel, be it
observed, for having his craft so short-handed as
to be a public danger; but it took £2 2s. from the
ill-paid and overworked skipper. Sydney Harbor
is full of vessels running wild in exactly the same
fashion, and apparently C. Gr. Wade doesn’t
know where to find enough law to stop the
practice.
A passionate individual, signing himself
“Non-Unionist,” has written to the S. M.
Herald offering' his little remedy for the strike
trouble. In the rniddie of a dense forest of ad-
jectives, with an undergrowth of interjections and
here and there a forest giant of an adverb tower-
ing over all, there is a small, clear space with this
delicate literary flower blooming therein
I would suggest that unionism be at once and for ever
politicaliy destroyed by instant legislation. .. . There
can be no difficulty connected with legislation of this
kind, and all right-thinking men will agree that it is the
best thing to do.
Filled with a great desire to be right-thinking for
once in its abandoned life, The Bulletin rises to
say that the proposed measure is too weak. It
isn t comprehensive enough. What is wanted is
a short Act abolishing sin, and then if unionism is
a wrong thing it will naturally disappear. The
churches might lend a hand at the good work by
praying to the Lord to kill the Devil. At the
same time it seems to this paper that it would be
much better if unionism were put down by
Private Enterprise. The anti-unionist is always
an anti-socialist—one of the class which says that
Private Enterprise can do the thing better ”
and the way he rushes to Parliament whenever he
wants any little thing done—a culvert built or the
whole population put in gaol or the like—is
ridiculous.
* * * *
The Law once more showed its old inca-
pacity for being sensible in Melbourne the other
day when it was asked to undo the marriage tie
between Robert Grout and Aileen Annie. The
Grouts began the disruptive process in 1904, when
the lady sued for and obtained a decree nisi on
the ground of Robert’s misconduct; but as she
herself strayed from the path of virtue before
“nisi” was turned into “absolute,” the law
stepped in and put up the slip-rails. Being thus,
in effect, ordered to continue nominally Aileen’s
husband, Robert presently thought he might as
well be so in fact, and invited the lady to return
and fry his breakfast sausage as of old. Aileen
declined ; and as she kept on declining Robert
asked Justice Hodges to divorce her on the ground
of desertion. But Mr. Hodges refused to do so
because Robert’s first lapse had conduced to his
wife’s intermediate irregularity, if one may put it
that way, and the whole series of episodes was so
interwoven that his view was that Robert’s
earliest indiscretion was more or less responsi ble
and indirectly and, to a pertain extent, directly
accountable for the whole trouble, and therefore
there was no remedy. It was a most lame and
hunch-backed conclusion. Apparently the only
feasible course for the disunited married couple is
to start housekeeping anew, and then for
one or the other or both to go a-phihindering
afresh—and even then Robert’s first lapse may
again project itself into the proceedings and
invalidate the arguments. Under which circum-
stances the likeliest thing to happen is that both
of them will philander on their own separate
accounts ; and if presently Chief Justice Madden
finds there has been a still further and awful
increase in irregular births, it will be up to him
to speak to Learned Brother Hodges about it.
MET HIS SORT BEFORE.
SALESMAN: “Lady's rings.
Yes, sir. Here are some neat designs , only
£12 10s. Warr”-
CUSTOMER: “£12 10s.!! Talk sense! It’s for
my wife.”
SALESMAN: “Beg pardon, the 5s. goods are at
the end counter.”
It was casually mentioned during the
special inquiry into the ease of the alleged mur-
derer Lee Sing that the boss Freemasons of
Moree (N.S. W.) are Choy Lie and See Gar. It is
to be hoped that Moree is proud of the ancient
and honorable order.
THE CANDLES OF DESIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No, brethren, we prefer the say lights of the tea-shops
the train-rides, the visits to waxworks and picture shows ;
and as we flutter our little hour, like wayward moths
around these the candles of our desire, the great basic
truths of the Gospel are relegated to oblivion, and the
Spirit which is of the Word and yet is not the Word nor
in any way connected with the Word is suffered to mingle
and commingle. —Sermon by the Rev. Akeiithi, Esq
“ Woman’s Letter," 28110/’O9. ’
The saints may take the narrow way that leads unto the
choir;
Give unto me the cheerful lights—the Candles of Desire !
Ascetic folk may bow their heads, may count the heads
of pain ;
I clutch the skirts of happiness and hunt the trails of
gain !
The owl may blink reflectively, the raven silent be ;
The wayward moth who perisheth—he hath his ecstasy !
He knows a pang voluptuous—O stinging lips of Are,
They are the flames that call to us—the Candles of Desire !
The saint in dull oblivion may rust the ages through ;
His life all drab with dreariness—no saving tint or hue !
’Twere better far in waywardness to taste the vats of sin,
To quaff each brand of wickedness in Time’s tremendous
bin !
I d rather be a sinful one—a Villon hanged on high,
Than potter onward wearily with tomb-regarding eye !
Id spite- SiT>S cheerfulness than groan beneath a
For me the lamps are beckoning—the Candles of Desire !
When life is spent, then cheerily, without a single sigh ;
The moth who knows red ecstasy— he can afford to die l’
The lives all flat and colorless, untinged with crimson joy,
n —^ e * r bitterness is real, their bliss
The sinner in his sinfulness can shout “ So-long ! ” and go ;
8 bis life right humanly, has known the passion-
Hot mouths for him have offered up their chalices of fire ;
For him there blazed all-splendidly the Candles of Desire!
I would not be a Pharisee, a deacon in the fold ;
For me no drab collection-plate, no pew all drear and
cold I
The sunlight and the songfulness of birds upon the tree ;
A bunch of frills and petticoats—these thing's are good
to me 1 *
The brethren in their meeting-place may lift their doleful
hymn—
I know another Paradise well-stocked with seraphim 1
The tea-shop and the picture-show are things that I
admire;
And there you find them burning—these same Candles of
Desire 1
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


hew^
Ibe
he is i
•qje C« or i> e
Otxr old friend
Lord Di«K
order' o(" |
PUn'iaTsene+ '
Co ol>
**V)iw .
) 0«r **+•’*+"
' w P on
“Him i*> suit*M c
do °jf eK
1)1*5 Corrzraf-
'ftie chiM,ljy KmciW
Ple&sea wiffi r*™. ficKled w,tfr * vfa*/
%f*a Vs s *$ e .
A«a bcass £ ve tire-teys of .
fo|>cs °*
The
Diocese (Melb)
wsoU«i
Some of wo,re
& vi, S °t T/^
be-H-ino *"••1* b * te
tnWi«>»s
vl©>tfo« «f 1
Pifton:-” DeiS> friend, I t'C&lly . „
lo *(!«•••. > "lus-t-S.e-r'off •
ACOJnciHoir "ijW’’|
So«>e |>«o[>le
C»+J Councillors) v/crcl
loT of -fart' nien m*l|o|
J/*Or»K 'tur+le souf>.
s
S'l*« Slv*imor>^
d l^clboJr’*ic
V/i$ * nrjori oticletr
o«\<
oj- lirn ■jefftrics
/follows .
f V \
/^ r H^el^orn<-\
A\ L-C- rcblvio? \
k l
Pyir -tvM
tf**' « V€^®
be«-v> - /QgJtgZ?
li m Vic+o* i o> • y
J
Yjlw '\V> *tV
ec. cooler
C<Lce We sKteK /
+* l>Ys>*- rfo /
-
d»^'t«ne^‘s^ c^
V'*> {*>»*» * u
©ifUr Y
i \
"tvv! »V>vU«A> b\%oj/k
fc> r efe* !
(coyly j N(©-T*se_ l«■
"best"—nearly *se Wst".
REID’S NEW TITLE, AND SUNDRIES.


rtic
CORTICELLI SILK
WEARS LONGEST and HOLDS STRONGEST
CORTICELLI SILK MILLS, Established 1838
Australasian Office -91 a YORK STREET, Sydney
When you feel blue and despondent take
Chamberlain's Tablets, and you will soon feel
bright again.*
A Wealthy Corporation is Prepared to
Purchase Approved
Mining Properties .
Send full particulars, with all plans and repo-ts
available, to “ MINE," care J. H. FAWCETT.
31 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
WE ALL JUDGE
BY SIGNS.
And nothing indicates more than the hand.
We make every provision for a perfectly
kept hand by stocking Manicure Sets from
12/6 upwards, with Silver mounts in hand-
some cases.
We also stock the odd pieces.
Write for our latest catalogue.
FAIRFAX U ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures
Cash.
25 HUNTER STREET.
Very Complete Manicure Set, with Hall-marked
Silver. A very handsome ornament, 80/-
Less 20 per cent., 16/- = 64/-
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Yeeyah ” : Though black brother may
scoff at his tribe’s superstitions, he can’t get rid
of them when the pinch comes. Here’s a case :
Native companion is the daintiest dish the
Northern Territory blacks know, consequently
only the elders and ancients of the tribe are per-
mitted to enjoy it. If eaten by a young man it
causes death. Sam, a progressive black, went out
with me shooting, and he and I fed on native
companion that night. Within one month Sam
was a very dead nigger, despite the fact that he
had mocked at the superstition. A white doctor
was called in to Sam, but Sam steadfastly refused
to live, though the doctor couldn’t tell what was
the matter with him. But the old men knew.
Native companion killed him. And they stroked
their own bingies and reckoned there would be
no poaching on their preserves for the future.
“ C.H.S.” : “ Waltz ” (B. 28/10/’O9) writes
of the Westralian bungara, but his experi-
ence and mine vary somewhat. At Top Camp,
Ashburton River, one of these reptiles had his
burrow close to the camp, and he accounted for
no less than five of the diggers’ dogs. When
killed, this brute was under 6ft. long; had he
been as long as “ Waltz ” accuses him of being he
would have eaten the diggers as well. If possible,
the bungara will get away very quietly, hardly
disturbing the air ; but once he is aware that he
is seen he resembles a whirlwind crossing the
landscape, both in speed and dust. Where sheep
are lambing the bungara is always present, newlv-
born lamb being his favorite breakfast. If
cornered, the ordinary six-footer is more than a
match for any dog, and will fight with both teeth
and tail. He uses the latter as a whip, and does
it quite as effectively as an ordinary stockman.
I once saw one cornered by a dog. Finding
his movements somewhat hampered, he vomited a
carpet snake seven feet long, after which his
foot-work equalled that of the late Peter Jackson
at his best. He is a very shy' creature at all
times. “ Waltz’s ” specimen, which used to come
to the fire to be measured, must have been after a
drop out of the bottle from which “ Waltz ” had
been drinking. My limit one of a fathom length
weighed over 601 b., but he was dead at the time.
* * * *
“ Leo Lear ” : For working black brother
Binghi on a large scale I award the Melbourne
Cup to the Westralian squatter. In the latter
’nineties large areas had been taken up as sheep
runs on the Gascoyne and Minilya Rivers, ’way
back of Carnarvon ; and much fencing had to be
run up to keep the jurnbucks from falling over tfie
Edge of Beyond. A white was, a 3 a rule, sent out
in charge of a gang of gins, and he marked out
the position for every post-hole. The gins then
squatted on their haunches, a dozen or so in a line,
and got to work. It was generally easy going in
the light sandy soil, and the 18in. holes were
put down with a jam tin or an oyster sheik
Another white would be boss over a number of
bucks, who cut out 4in. mulga postsand humped
them to the line of battle, where a couple more
Binghies stood them up in the holes. The gins
had mostly done their sinking work to a nicety,
and the post fitted better than the dancer’s hand
fits into the uncomfortable white glove. Yet
another crowd of darkies —mixed sexes—came
behind, boring posts and running wire. No. 16
wire was generally used, and the rapidity with
which gins could run this light, flexible material
through half-inch holes would rhake a Svdnev
tram dizzy. But if this fine wire became tangled
on a “jinny” the case was about as hopeless as
the Fusion’s financial scheme, and the coil was
heaved overboard with the same kind of curse as
Australia has in readiness for the 25-bob-a-
-head settlement. With a supply of this kind
of labor a mile of fencing was often run up
in a day, the wage sheet for it showing
the one item—“ Tucker.” The niggers knew
nothing of coins or cheques, and as long as their
commissariat departments,showed more than the
regulation size they considered themselves amply
paid. This Gascoyne country will never be a
small man’s land, reckoning size by the Eastern
Stater’s idea. Paddocks are often ten miles
square, and the country carries ten sheep per 100
acres. But it is about the healthiest sheep district
in the Commonwealth ; and as for horses, they
come off the large areas with about as much
“ middle ”as a Cup candidate. Now news comes
filtering through to the east that the imported
rabbit curse has made its appearance in Carnarvon.
How land-holders are going to compete with
bunny on these immense areas is a tough problem.
And yet there are importing maniacs at large
who would introduce any old plague, pest or weed
on the off chance of the new comer slaying the
old. If these* incomprehensibles were set to deal
personally, by their own sweat, with a cactus
clump or a rabbit warren, the importing curse
would disappear off the face of the land much
quicker than even capital flies' from Socialism.
THE HIGHER
EDUCATION
OF THE COW.
The higher artistic education of the cow has (savs
PoruLAR Science Siftings) been carried to a remarkable
degree of perfection by a lady farmer, Mrs. Adda !<’.
Howie. This iady stimulates the milk-giving capacity of
her large and amiable pets by playing suitable music to
them. She finds that the happy and sympathetic feel-
ings engendered by the harmony produce a particularly
abundant flow of rich and pure milk.
They haven't got any musical instruments at Billy-
Goat Flat, but Billy Blue-gum does his best.
“Ash”: Has the originator of that
Parisian dressmaking device, the sheath costume,
ever been in the South Sea Islands ? The sheath
costume exposes the leg on the right side. Now,
so does the South Sea maiden’s fibre apron, which,
in the case of unmarried women, is left open at
the right side, so that the tatooing on the legs may
be seen to advantage. This is a coy indication
that the wearer is ready for marriage. Seems to
me there is a similarity somewhere, particularly in
the coy indication.
BEYOND CONTROL.
BROWN (trying to persuade Smith to come home): “Come along (hie) ole chapsh. When you
get in (hie) hold yer breath, and the wifesh won't know you ’ad a drink.”
SMITH: “But I can't (hie.) hold it, ole chapsh. It’sh too strong.”
“ Kola " : You can get a whiff of the odors
of Footscray in the train ; but the way to sample
them properly is to drive into Melbourne along
the Geelong-road, and round between the abat-
toirs and the racecourse. It was a warm day, and
we ran into the first stench just as one might plug
into a fog-bank. It was almost tangible. While
I was trying to place it, we clipped out of it sud-
denly ; but, before I could get a decent breath,
we had dived into a second and completely
different smell. This held to us for about half a
mile, when it, too, vanished. Then just as
I was looking at the racecourse appointments, of
which you get a fine view from the road, I was
almost knocked out of the buggy by a third per-
fume. This was totally different from the other
two; it was more saturating. The horse shied at
it, and travelled sideways till we got to 'the Salt-
water Bridge. After that there were just the
abattoirs and some everyday common stenches till
we got out of the town.
Curiously enough, when
we drove back, a few
days later, we missed
all these special frag-
rances owing to a change
in the wind. But as
compensation we had
the odor of sewage for
fully five miles along
the Werribee-road. The
sewage pipes break out
into tall chimneys at
intervals to take this
smell away up into the
clouds; but under cer-
tain atmospheric con-
ditions, and especially
if it is a heavier smeil
than usual, it drops
down again and lies flat
on the ground like
india-rubber. It is a
peculiar faraway odor,
about 4ft. deep on the
higher parts of the road,
while in the hollows the
horse and buggy and all
the occupants vanish
into it. As you start
up the next hill it is
very interesting to see
the horse’s head gradu-
ally emerge out of the
odor. I believe this
smell would make good
roofing material and
boots. A medical friend
tells me that these stinks
are not, as a rule, harmful,
and that the deadly stinks are
those which do not stink.
“J.G.”: Victoria is dotted with the
browsing goat and the abundant jam tin which
mark the decadent mining township. ‘Wang”
(B. 21/10/09) has described Steightz. But
Buninyong has deeaded more than Steigl.tz
ever could or ever can. At one time it looked
down on Ballarat as a poor relation. But
then some fiend, poking around Ballarat,
found gold there too, whereupon Buninyong
experienced its first slump. Most of the popula-
tion packed up and cleared for Golden Point, and
never came back again. After that Ballarat grew
and grew, and usurped Buninyong’s position as
the leading centre of inland Victoria. For a long
time, however, Buninyong was a big place, and
hatfuls of gold were taken out of its alluvial
mines. Then the gutters began to peter out, and
the township slumped some more. In fact, it
slumped so badly that it looked as if it would col-
lapse altogether and tumble on those who hadn’t got
away. Just then somebody took on quartz mining,
and the ancient village boomed once more. But the
reefs also began to peter out, and the township
began to freeze again, and the inhabitants spent
all their spare time struggling to sell their pre-
mises—with goats attached—to one another. The
township kept dwindling for some years, until
Duncan Gillies borrowed some more money and
gave Buninyong a railway. The township there-
upon went on a glorious jag, and mafficked like
the deuce, and called out the town band. But as
soon as the line was opened the disgusted trades-
people saw the rest of the population streaking off
into Ballarat to buy its corned-beef and jam, and
those who had thrown up their hats highest
cursed the highest also. Business places closed
up with a series of bangs, and some of the places
and pubs burned themselves down in disgust.
LOGIC.
“Got any empty bottles, boss?”
“No, I haven’t any; but you're sure to get some
from Jones next door. His wife’s been away
for a month, and she’s coming back to-
morrow.”
“Lantana”: Recently saw a photograph
which strikingly illustrated the growth of that
disastrous vegetable, the water-hyacinth. The
picture showed a mass qf the stuff in Swan Creek,
a tributary of the Clarence River (N.S.W.). It
was so thick that young oak trees were growing
frqm roots that had found a lodging there. And
underneath the floating vegetation was 30ft. of
water.
BUSH GIRLIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am sitting' at my window, and I’m busy coining rhymes
Of a score of men and maidens and the scenes of other
times.
There were homes beyond the ranges—little heavens on
the farms,
Where the brown-haired sun-kissed girlies entertained us
with their charms;
Where the Nellies, and the Susans, and the Marys, and
the Mays
Ever waved a hand of welcome down the blossom-bordered
ways.
There was Nellie—little Nellie, fairest flower of all the
flock,
Who, like Helen, kept a legion of most killing smiles in
stock.
She would dance from dark till daylight with the big
brown earnest men
(Sweetest Nellie—little Nellie—you had many lovers
then!); .
But she married big Tom Manders—ah, from many rugged
lives
All the beacon lights are taken when the bushmen claim
their wives.
There was Susie—freckled Susie, of thefold Trewolgan-
road
(Ah, for her the eyes of bughmen in her smiling presence
glowed !).
But she said she “loved them equal ” —so shy treated all
the same
(Yes, but only, freckled Susie, till the Prince of Lovers
came !).
Oh, but bitter are the glances and too cruel are the curls
When the unromantic plodders come and marry all our
girls!
There was Mary—fickle Mary, of the old Trewolgan Oreek
(Faith ! what stories it could murmur if it only chose to
speak !)
She had quite a dozen lovers, and she loved them each in
turn ■
(Mary—fickle Mary, tell me, were there anv you could
spurn ?).
They were big and brown and earnest, they were loyal,
they were brave
(And you saved them many quarrels when you went and
married Dave !).
There was May, old Spencer’s daughter—with her face of
ruddy brown,
Whom we loved—and loved the better when her pater was
in town ;
For her dad was old and crusty, and he treasured her so
much
That his ruddy, brown-faced daughter was to look at—
not to touch !
But Willonga Jack, the digger, circumnavigated Fate,
For he partnershipped with Spencer—and she married
Spencer’s mate!
There was brown-eyed Laurel Schroeder, of the Never-
Never track,
And the shearers’ joy—the guardian of the saddle and
the pack.
True, she may have been a siren, luring cheque-men from
their loves—
Yet Miss Laurel’s eyes, I venture, were the eyes of cooing
doves. . . .
Ah, but where are those who kissed her, and the men
who held her hand ? . . .
Ask the desert that has covered LaUrel Schroeder with
its sand.
There were others—many others—played the old sweet-
hearting games,
But the men I wot of know them-r-though, alas ! by other
names.
To the rover, homeward turning,, there’s a sameness in the
range,
In the river and the roadway—but the girlies ever change.
For the gloss has left their tresses and the blooms have
left their cheeks—
But the trysting spots are sacred in the shadows of the
peaks.
So the Mother Bush has claimed them, men and maidens,
for its own—
Laughing, reckless, sad-eyed bushmen and the sweet-
hearts we have known ; .
But we’ll leave them with our blessings and their
blossoms and their birds
(We I —who’d never much to offer save a string of honeyed
words!).
Yet the world seems full of sorrows and iconoclastic
churls
When the unromantic plodders stay and marry all our
girls!
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


FOR
v?
J
mm
More Miles PetXalloaThan Anv Other*si
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
LEARN BY POST
WE PREPARE By HOST
for .Public Service, University, Shire and Municipal Clerka
Accountancy, and all other Public Exaraa,
■ ■ WE TEACH By POST ..i
General Educational Subjects.
Shorthand, Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Penmanihip, Correspond
dence. Arithmetic, Commercial Law; Electrical Mechanical and Civil
Engineering, Architecture and Building Con s 11
Mechanical Drawing &C. Our System* are unique,
not available to any other- Correspondence
Send for our pamphlet " Home Study " »»
Stott & ho are's
BUSINESS COLLEGE,
MOORE STREET, SYD NET.
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
OVER-FATNESS SHORTENS LIFE.
Why Put Up With It Any Longer?
No donbt of it; fatty heart, which is almost
inseparable from extreme stoutness, fatty kidneys
and fatty liver have been the cause of countless
catastrophes. The whole system is in a condition
of fatty congestion ; it is a positive shame to
neglect that diseased state. And, after all, why
put up with it ? Here is a recipe of a simple and
harmless cure, the ingredients of which any
chemist will supply, viz. One half-ounce of
Mar mol a, one ounce of fluid extract of Glycvr-
rhiza 8.P.,' one ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P.,
and Peppermint water to make six ounces in all.
Mix and shake in a large bottle, and take two
teaspoonfuls after meals and at bedtime. Nothing
simpler, surely; yet the change wrought by this
pleasant home remedy is well-nigh magical.
Special dieting and torturing exercises are out of
it. This mixture is everything ; it will give you
a good appetite and strengthen your digestive
powers; the surplus fat will melt away at a rapid
rate (sometimes as much as 18oz. in a day), and
in a few weeks your weight will be normal and
your health robust.*
“Myrtle”: Be “ Phil Harum’s ” par (B.
21/10/’O9) on the wheelbarrowing of Matilda. I
remember seeing, near Tiaro (Q.), an old swaggie
who had squeezed all his belongings into an oil
drum which he had rigged with an axle-pole. He
dragged it after him like a lawn-mower, and
shouted to me gleefully that a man who tottered
along beneath his swag was a fool. I agreed with
him, and asked him if he received any return from
borough councils and so forth for rolling their
roads, but the crunching and bumping of the
circular travelling wardrobe drowned my voice.
He was pulling hard and gaily in a cloud of dust
as I drove on.
* * * *
“The Lad”: The solitary Afghan, not
the one who goes in droves, is a patient traveller.
He will travel on the slightest provocation, or on
no provocation at all. He will just do it for
devilment if he can’t rind any other excuse. He
will do it for cussedness or without cussedness.
You find him mooning along the Outside tracks
on interminable and apparently purposeless jour-
neys, with the smell of a camel for company. If
you communicate with him you find that he
started from some dry, hot place where there is
no population, and that he is bound on a six
months’ cruise which will land him at some dry,
hot place with still less population. You can t
imagine what trade there can be between these
two places—it seems exactly like taking a cargo of
boulders from Spitzbergen to Greenland—but I
suppose there is business or profit in it some-
where, or else the Afghan is’going to see a girl, or
else he is going to kill somebody, or else he is
fleeing from justice, or some old thing like that.
• * * *
“Starfish” sends a mixture of personal
paragraph, politics and good Australian from the
Lower Darling:—
The home-grown motor-boat has made its appearance
on the Big Trickle. The Officer brothers, of hallara
station, were the perpetrators ; Graham, the elder of the
two, did most of the building. The initial voyage is now
in progress. It was begun from Kallara, on the Upper
Darling, the destination being Mildura. This is 1200
miles by river; 900 miles have already been covered in
safety. The river is falling rapidly, but the adventurers
have overtaken the fall, and are now petrolling on even
The builder, in addition to being a cultivator of jum-
bucks, is also a curiosity-hunter. Five years ago he:
visited the Solomon Islands in the interests of the Mel-,
bourne Museum, and came home loaded with old bones
and other dustheap produce. He built his little boat on
the station. The man who has hung for long on to the
tail of Beyond can do many things. .
The river this boat is travelling on has been navigable
for,the past two months, but the rise waters are now
running out like lightning, and there is no fresh rise in
sight.- The near-sighted policy of letting this mag-
nificent river run to waste sours every man who has
placed his hoof in Far-Western N.S.W. The, Darluv
is ope of the finest rivers in the Commonwealth, ana,
properly locked, would retain water sufficient for irriga-
tion and navigation permanently ; but, under existing
conditions, a good river takes only eight weeks to become
an old gutter.
TO BE SURE.
HOGAN (with pride): “Sure, these flannels I got whoilst in Sydney is grand for the winter,
for no matter how cowld an’ wet ye are ye always feel warrm an’ dhry in them.”
“Y.T.E.”: A paragraph in the S. M.
Herald of October 27 says that a quantity of
Queensland barramundi had been received and
sold at the Sydney markets ; but it can be proved,
I think, that this fish, though known generally in
Queensland as barramundi, is not the true
barramundi, but is a gigantic perch. The
true barramundi, as known by the old resi-
dents and blacks of Central Queensland,
is caught only in the tributaries of the
Dawson River. The Dawson and McKenzie come
together to form the Fitzroy, and although the
fish have been found within a few miles of the
HE MIGHT LIE IN.
NEW HAND : “ Wot time d’ yer want a bloke t’
get up, in th’ mornin’? ”
COCKY : “ Oh. the boys get up early to bring in
the cows, but you needn’t bother gettin' up
till about three o’clock."
junction, they have never been seen in the
McKenzie. The true or Dawson barramundi
varies in weight from 21b. to 61b., but is generally
about 31b. It is something like a trout in shape,
has large scales, and Under each scale has three
scarlet spots about diam. When scaled the
fish is a magnificent sight, with its lovely silver
sheen and red spots. It is good eating, but very
shy to catch.
Dear Bulletin, — Your valued contributor
(B. 28/10/’O9) has evidently forgotten some of the
most noted nicknames of shearers’ cooks. The
following might assist in soothing the feelings of
those who considered that they had a better
right to publicity than those mentioned : Canteen
Jimmy, Burgoo Bob, Salmon Sammy, Tripey,
While-you-Wait, When it's Ready, Steak-and —,
Sapphire Joe, Billo, Wash-down-Charlie, Fred
the Tinker, Dodger Dick, Stopit-George, Can-
Can Willie, Scoury, Basher, Never Forget, John
Turnout, Peace-and-Plenty Jack, Juicy Steve,
and last but not least, yours in reverence, The
Devil.
“ Marloo ” : The cow-cocky’s daughter
sometimes lias to make a valiant effort before she
contrives to marry the bloke of her soul. Witness
the case of Mag Chye, Mag, aged
18, was an expert milker, and Chye
guarded her closely. Young Bor-
den, after several vain attempts to
pirate Mag, found that th<j only re-
sult was to inflict punishment on her.
When hot working under Chye’s close
observation, she was kept locked up. So
Borden left, pursued by Chye and many
curses. Gradually Chye’s surveillance re-
• laxed. About six months later Smith
went to work for Chye. Smith owed his
appointment to the fact that he had a bee in
his head. His partial imbecility made him
sometimes forget to collect his wages, and
made it seem certain that he wouldn’t col'ect
Mag. All the dictionary wouldn’t express
Chye’s rage when he arose one morning four
weeks later and found that Mag and the
dull-witted servitor were gone. They had
fled together towards the adjacent town. Chye
pursued them, dropping foam all along the
road. Arrived at the town, he found Smith
mooning in the back yard of a pub, and
fell on him. Smith fought with unexpected
ferocity and repelled the assault. Then he
explained. He had gone in to see the par-
son, leaving Mag waiting outside. When
he came out everything was there except
Mag. Chye said things that scared a horse
in the next street, and went away to search
the town. He found nothing except drink.
When he returned home he discovered awaiting
him a letter signed “Margaret Borden.” The
fetter said that Smith was a daisy and the easiest
man to bolk with that any girl could wish. The
news that Smith was a daisy seemed to Chye the
last straw, but it wasn’t. The very last straw
happened when Smith sued for his wages.
* * * *
“ Leo Lear ” : The cheapest and most in-
genious wells I know are those on some of the
Northern Queensland cattle stations. During the
dry season most streams become mere miles of
sand. But there is good water just under the
surface, and this is tapped by means of hollow
logs, sawn into sft. or 6ft. lengths, and sunk on
end in the river bed. The liquid rises almost to
the top of these bush troughs ; and thirsty animals
take to them as naturally as the cabby’s neddy
does to the one against the publican’s front door.
TRADITION.—A STORY OF BERNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There once was a bear in the city of Berne,
A wonderful bear in the city of Berne ;
It was brown—but its back
Had a blending of black,
And its eyes glittered oft with a glamorous glare
(This mystical, magical, wonderful bear),
Till you shuddered and shivered and murmured
“ Beware ! ”
The people of Berne (so the story ran down)
Believed that this bear was the luck of the town,
And if ever he died,
And there was not supplied
A bear the same day of the very same brand,
To meet with the mystical, mythic demand,
It was woe both to Berne and the rest of the land.
For the crops would all fail in the fields about Berne,
The milk leave the cow and the cream leave the churn,
A curse follow spade,
And the fat burgher trade
Would vanish like feathers that float in the air
Till Heav’n grew gracious and granted the prayer :
“ We pray thee, O Lord, give us daily our bear ! ”
One winter he perished, and great was the woe;
For Berne was begirt and beleaguered with snow ;
And never a wight,
Though fleetfoot and light,
Might venture a mile out in quest of a bear,
With a browny-black skin and a glamorous glare,
Though the wealth of the town were his own if he dare.
But the sun rose next day in the city of Berne,
There was milk from the cow, there was cream in the
churn,
And shortly(they say)
Came a genial day
That melted the ice in the bound river-bed,
That made the corn sprout where the snowdrift had
spread,
Though the new bear came not—and the old one was
dead !
!Now the burghers of Berne were both crafty and keen,
And they murmured : “ Gadzooks ! it is easily seen
That old Bruin the Brown,
With his ‘ Luck of the Town,’
Was a howling impostor, a frost and a snare,
With his mystical looks and his glamorous glare—
Let us rise in our wrath—and abolish the Bear !”
So the Bear was abolished. The story took wing,
And in pamphlets ’twas,passed on to baron and king,
Who swore it was vile,
And who made a big pile
Of the books—which the hangman, by royal command,
Burnt all in a bonfire, amazing and grand ;
Though tvhy they should burn them, I can’t understand !
For surely no creature would ever compare
A Prince and his people to Berne and its bear ;
As if it were true,
The moral some drew—
That people who fancy for freedom they yearn
The rule of the Despot Tradition must spurn,
Or they bow to a bogie—like burghers of Betne !
QUEENSLAND.
P. BORN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ho notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will !, e
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
E. J. Bloke: Too ecstatic for this commonplace
world ...Boronia: “Queer” more remarkable for its
malicious suggestion than for literary merit... G. Hol-
combe : “ The Quest,” vagueness calling to emptiness.
“In the Image,” amorphous counsel of perfection ..
Grafton: Story of the loose-leg-flinging patriarch and
matriarch, an unvenerable chestnut J. Langford:
Sheol is stocked with coals of fire like those Nipper poured
on Liz. Can’t advise you as to placing such yarns.
Not here, anyhow.... Shaw N. : Forms too difficult....
VV. H. Bain : Themes conventional; treatment below
par J.F. : “A Toss-Up” is a distinctly unexciting
gamble, and the little bitsof poetry are as pleasant as dust
on a windy day.... J.K.L. : Not above the average of the
“In Meinoriam” verses in the dailies; not even so gro-
tesquely humorous as some of them. And the callous
dailies will collect cash from you before they
print your heart-cry.... D. E. Jones: Both trite....
E.W.F. : “In Praise of Billy Waite, Champion Buckjump
Eider,” isn’t poetry. It’s just the easy, long-drawn-out,
droning noise that a buzz-fly makes on a lazy, summer’s
day... Never-Never: All said many times already. And
no doubt we will say it again some day—when we can
think of a new way of saying it Ajax: The city man
who uses faint pencil on flimsy paper to introduce himself
as a new contributor slams the door in his own face. We
can’t afford to be any blinder than we are S. A.M.
(W.A.) : That river poem flowed peacefully into the
basket... A.E.J. (Bathurst): Rejected with enthusiasm.
Too long and ponderous A.T.H. (Wentw'orth Falls):
Not sufficient interest Leo Baxter: Broken-backed
poem about Melbourne Cup put out of its misery
Chink: “Concerning the Caterer” dished J. Don-
nollan : Pathetic story about Dick and Sam and dear
little Willie drowned in its own tears Rough Coal :
Your flower of poesy looks its best when it blushes
unseen W.S. :“The Spark” very feeble for its length.
H. E. Hall: “ Trip to Hades,” though “ written and
composed” by yourself, doesn’t cut any ice—which is a
pity, considering its destination H. MacOallum : Im-
probable story of old woman returning his half-sovereign
to small boy dismissed with a caution Wang: “Mary
Jane” too late by some weeks C. Vincent: Person
who kills a girl’s father, and then finds that he himself is
the girl’s father, is an unsatisfactory sort of criminal.
G.F. : Good idea, but treatment feeble....
Olave Ayliffe : Life doesn’t deserve such rugged verse—
A. T. King: Spirited invitation to soldiers to fight for
their booze lacks in rhythm what it boasts in lting-and-
glory sentiment D. E. Jones : “ Vale,” a trifling cir-
cumstance. Considering the other Rough Coal:
Heavy daily newspaper item... Seebee: Commonplace.
E. Breem : Old moral re-told without distinction
0.R.1). : Dunno. Would need a very critical examina-
tion to decide. The faking of old violins is an established
branch of business, robbery, etc. H.J.L. : Terribly
long and illegible. Also illogical. Even the best charts
don’t show everything. For instance, they didn’t show
the Quetta reef; the Quetta found that for itself.
Isn’t it possible that these surveyors are trying
to find things that are not on the chart, and thus
get a little ahead of other navigators? E.G.8.:
Stilted sort of narrative A.H. : “ Impending Destiny ”
just missed the vehicle. It came as near as it could
without actually arriving Allan Roberts: Long, lazy,
easy-going metre which ought to be suppressed. And
the verse is too long for the subject. Still, there has
been worse verse... G.A. : “Dad” disfigured by the
effort to rhyme “ shorter ” with “ water” and “loafer”
with “ sofa.”... The Spider : Standard rates always paid.
Standard rate for gems like “Blue Funk,” nil J. Wain-
ford : Words suit the music, and the music’s no use to us.
W.G.H. : Lullaby too drearily' somnolent... .M.B. :
“Bohemians” and other still too long and slight
R.W.T. : Verses about beer in Heaven leave us unmoved.
.. .Marroo: That row at the door of Heaven has been
done so often now' that it needs to be done better than
you do it to be worth doing.... Pearl P. : Cupid has re-
signed his job H.H. : The trouble about “Laura” is
that “awe” won’t rhyme with “floor.” Radix: It is
hard to dig any meaning out of “Second Class.*’ ...
J.A.M.: The happenings at Binjah school might be more
interesting than they are E. Hugo : “ Modern Chris-
tian” only a repetition, at great length and in long,
slack metre, of the old truism : “ I asked for bread, and
ye gave me a cathedral.” Blunderer: “Memory’s
Alloy” plain rot, and pretty rotten rot at that....
M.G.W. A; : We have more whisky-poems, beer-poems,
drunk-poems, snake-poems, and jim-jam-and-fantod-
poems than we can use. Therefore, your gin-poem is
reluctantly turned down Wangotooka: “Modern
Marriage” isn’t modern. That kind of marriage was old
when Adam was a boy... Ivan Drew: Nothing unusual
about the grocer who flared up to baresark fury when he
found that his wife had left him, and then faded back to
grocery again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
M.B. : Tw'o are old and poor ; the third is new and
penniless H. E. Gordon: Picture horrible; spelling
unique. ..J. Richardson : Dissipated fowl sketch declined.
To a Person Unknown : Received one faint discourag-
ing picture, w'hich seems to represent an aged gardener
talking to an angel. It is on yellowish paper with blue
surroundings, and was enclosed in the covers of a
“Queensland exercise book.” No name, no address, no
joke, no explanation. Basket... .Otho: No limit to the
pictures that can be made out of the rude remarks of
small, villainous boys. You just draw the small boy
and the man, and put the remark underneath.
D. McN. : The man whose brother was working isn’t
a very great flight of humor. And he isn’t a flight of
art at all. In the art sense, he doesn’t even pervade the
surface of the ground—let alone fly. He is a burrowing
animal, in fact Alec: Why do the hairs of the nude
person stand so horribly on end and his legs totter so
lamentably beneath him? P.L. : “Greece-butter”
joke based wholly on a pun, and not much of a pun either.
Picture might be a lot worse though. Try again
Jim Dick : Two of them handed to artist on the off-
chance that they will appeal to him Hal C.: Destroyed
accordingly, though the joke was quite old enough to
have died a natural death.


Miner: ''Grievances? Why, lor’ lumme, I haln’t got
no grievances. I only came out to make some
lively copy for you newspaper fellers. You've-
been rather overworking the German
bogey lately. Now, here is some-
thing real right up agin’ your back r
door!” " Jan
z Fancy portrait of Peter Bowling as de-
scribed by the dally press. Patron of first-
class seats In railway carriages and theatres.
/ Note also rare jewel In shirt-front.
Hop's landlady (who also keeps a
cat-farm) has coal enough “in sight”
In her backyard to go on with for two
months.
Shopman (twigging the hat): “ I
see you ’ave brought a coal-
scuttle with you, ma’am; so I
s’pose you intend to take this
with you ; but we’ll send it if
you like.”
'Xu,
<*>>*
"O
While the rash neighbor who objected
to cats probably repents his prodigal
use of coals as projectiles; in the
background his missus is seen keeping
'/the pot a-boiling with the remains of a
more or less grand piano.
Effects of a prolonged coal-
strike upon the suburban
Slave of the Hand-Bag. He
will fall upon his feet, so to /
speak, and re-discover the Use
thereof,
THIS WOULD BE HARD
LUCK i
Recently-made K.C.M.Q.:
4 ‘ 1 say, is this ’ere good
for a bucket of coal?”
I
II the ferry-boats tie up, some of our
staff who are t’otherslders will have to
’ swim for it.
0W
MM
Nationalisation of the mines has been
suggested as a remedy for the present
difficulty. A good Idea. If strikes
occurred then the Deform politician
could be put to some real use.
THE COAL STRIKE.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
CHAMPAGNE of TABLE
Light, Crisp and Invigorating.
French Natural Sparkling Table Water.
2].
ADVICE TO RHEUMATICS.
Noted Physician Tells How to Prevent and Cure
Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder Troubles.
If you would avoid rheumatism, kidney and bladder
troubles, be moderate in the consumption of heavy rich
foods, substitute as far as possible soups, broths, fresh
milk, and drink water —lots of water. Take plenty of
time to eat, and don’t eat after you have had enough,
even if it does taste good. If your work is confining, take
a moderate amount of exercise each day in the open air.
Of course, neither diet, rest, water, nor exercise will
cure these afflictions. We advise them as preventives
only. For the benefit of readers of this article who are
how afflicted with rheumatism, kidney, bladder or
urinary troubles, and desire to be cured quickly, we give
below, complete in every detail, the complete prescrip-
tion which has made a great authority on the subject so
successful in the treatment of these diseases. It is the
most certain cure which has been used. It is pleasant to
take, it is not expensive, it can be supplied by any
chemist, and we believe it to be the greatest prescription
for rheumatism, kidney and bladder troubles ever written.
It is also a valuable tonic and blood purifier. If you are
a sufferer, take this prescription to any chemist and have
it prepared ; or you can obtain the ingredients separately
and mix them ail at home.
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup Rhu-
barb, one ounce; Liquid Barkola Compound, one ounce ;
Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
The dose for adults is one teaspoonful taken after
meals, and one at bed-time. Children should be given
one-fourth to one-half teaspoonful, after meals only.
After you are cured, follow the advice given as to diet,
water arid exercise, and you will not need the services of
a physician again for these ailments.
Note.— Other papers are privileged to copy the above.'*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A LESSON IN HYGIENE.
MOTHER : “ You shouldn’t eat your cake so quickly.
Bobbie! I once knew a little boy that ate his
cake so quickly that he died before he
finished it!"
BOBBIE: “ And what did they do with the rest of
his cake, mother?”
iji i -I.*- -ii , xt ,
Foi years and years Melbourne S Harbor
Trust dredged up the silt that was washed down
-v- A , j ..... i i
the Yarra, and then dumped it m the bay, where
it was liable to stray into the already shallow
channels. Then arrangements were made to
° ~
spread it over the West Melbourne swamp, where
already enough has been deposited to raise a
square mile of country an average of 3ft. And it
i . .i • ,
actually costs less to thus improve a useless
swamp than it did to Spill the stuff in the bay and
destroy, the channels. The mania for tipping
garbage and other waste mullock into the first
creek or waterhole handy seems to have gripped
the early pioneers badlv, and it took the Mel-
. xr,_ rn . i , •, , i
bourne Harbor I rust a long while to even begin
to get rid of the ancient vice. In fact, it was such
a deep-tooted vice that the late Fitzgibbon once
defended it in a poem which had the refrain:
“The Wisdom of the Serpent says the Sewage to
the Sea *”
*
“Billem” on the unimportance of being
G. H. Reid these times :
The allegedly-indispensable statesman—out of the lime-
light, but ludicrously laboring all the time to get into it
—is now established as the negligible quantity in both
State and Federal affairs. While self-posed and press-
posed as a public leader, the popular delusion was main-
tained. When the pretence became no longer support-
able, the paper-made personage lackadaisically lumbered
himself out of the way, and thereby gave intriguer Cook
his opportunity to coquette with the susceptible
Deakin. When the compact was fixed up Mr. Reid
wasn’t invited to come in under the umbrella.
He wasn’t consulted, or insulted, about office. He
wasn’t even asked if he had such a thing as an ambi-
tion or hope about him. He was just dropped, forgotten-
left to his briefs and his bulk. In fact, he was abandoned
without inquiries. He was only mirage, after all. During
his five years’ Premiership of N.S.W., his brief half-
Federal Premiership, and his eight years’ Federal Oppo-
sition leadership, he was mostly mirage, muddle, humbug,
shrieking fluency, misconception, foolishness, schoolboy
flippancy, incapacity and disaster. Instead of giving a
helping hand to build up the manufacturing industries of
N.S.W., he knuckled down to the importers’press and
sacrificed valuable years to the anti-Australian cause of
Shoddy. To-day he never mentions that cause, which is
some evidence that he all along knew its worthlessness.
In assisting to prolong a pernicious policy he proved
himself the worst enemy N.S.W. has known. He was
more disastrous than a drought. As Premier of N.S.W.
he helped to kill the original draft Bill; and then, when
he got on the job of amending the Bill, he persuaded the
Premiers to agree to that ghastly new provision about
the capital. He wouldn’t trust Australia or its Parlia-
ment to freely choose the capital site. As a result of
this excrescence on a great Constitution we have a petti-
fogging State Premier audaciously dictating terms and
conditions to the sovereign Australian Parliament. Had
there been no Reid in office in the late nineties
there would have been none of this petty wran-
gling over the home of the Commonwealth. But
Reid fell flop 15 months before the inaugura-
tion Of Federation; so it wasn’t Reid, but his
more subtle rival, Barton, who finally fixed up the
Government; and George Reid has been fading further
into the distance ever since. Now we have him feeblv
striving to keep prominent by lecturing young men and
women in suburban church halls, just like some parson
who jumps at every opportunity to recite his dull plati-
tudes. If he makes anybody laugh, and the reporter
mentions it, he is filled with joy. He is understood to be
in his element at last ; and it is to be hoped that he will
not be hauled out of it by appointment to the High Coni-
missionership. Such a perversion of Commonwealth
office would be an outrage on the spirit of Australian
unity and a national misfortune, on which Reid’s whole
career would cry “Shame!’’
The great art of grovel isn’t what it was
even 20 years ago, when there was a Primrose
League here, and silly women described the late
Victoria as Pre-eminent in Grief, and the Batten-
berg joke was still alive, and the Sydney Evening
News published “society” letters said to
be “by the Daughter of a Duke.” There was
a pathetic feebleness about the attempts made
by one or two papers last public holiday
to assure the public that Edward X. of
England is a really great man, and will be ever
remembered as Edward the Peacemaker. As a
matter of fact, he will more probably be known as
Edward the Buzzer. He never made peace
between any two States that weren’t at
peace already. But in the earlier part of
his reign he fled round Europe a good
deal sowing the seeds of cobwebby “good
understandings’’—the same vague kind that are
formed any day when one fellow sings that
another fellow is a jolly good fellow. But of late
—that is to say ever since Germany and Austria
tested the strength of the Anglo-Franco-Russian
vague affability over the affair of Bosnia and
Herzegovina—Edward hasn’t even Buzzed.
If George Reid doesn’t secure the High
Com missionership or the chairmanship of the
Inter-State Commission he will have to
settle down to a hard and dusty contest an
East Sydney next year. Last time he
came closer to defeat than he had
done for many years, though his
opponent only turned up casually at
the tenth hour or thereabouts. And
in those days he was George Reid,
politician. Now the enemy is con-
ducting a long, vigorous campaign, and
the holder of the seat has degener-
ated. He has become a fatherly old
blatherskite at tea-meetings, babies’
homes, mothers’ gatherings, and assem-
blages of old maids, stamp-collectors,
beetle-catchers, horticulturists, tame
curates, admirers of the true inward-
ness of Browning, and collectors of
Persian and mixed cats. The life he
leads these days isn’t good training for
the maddened skirmish of politics.
Judkins has discovered that the paste pot
is more profitable than the plough. The
“awakener of consciences” has leased his semi-
fruit garden, semi-bush paddock to an orchardist’s
son who understands the business, and Mudkins
proposes to bog in once more with the collection
plate. But as he has put up, back in the scrub,
a two-roomed fakement in the Early Antediluvian
style, he still proposes to go there for casual
relaxation from his arduous struggles against the
national tendency to sin,
“ Boswell ” writes -
So W. A. Holman (N.S.W.) has again hurled his toma-
hawk viciously in the direction of his Labor friends in
the Australian Parliament. This writer had occasion to
allude to Holman’s conduct (B. 31/12/’08) in hunting with
the Labor hares and running with the brief-giving
hounds who control the N.S.W. Law Department. Since
then many Crown briefs have wandered in W.A.’s direc-
tion, notwithstanding that Wade had publicly proclaimed
in the matter of B. R. Wise that no hostile politician
need apply. The quarantining of Wise and the sub-
sidising of Holman may therefore be confidently set
down as straws which show which way the wind blows.
Still, when a deputy-leader of Labor goes out of his way
to publicly fling his States Fright tomahawk at his
Federal confreres, to the accompaniment of an approving
grin from Wade, no straw is necessary to mark the trend
of events. The facts shriek for themselves. No more
pitiful sight can meet the eye of an earnest Democrat
than that of a brainy man kept in Parliament by Labor
votes, a,nd yet voting cheek-by-jowl on really great
questions with a buzzing insect, the elect of Toryism.
Instead of being a fighter for the workers Holman has
chosen to be a Frighter for the Tory Premier; wherefore,
only a few days previous to this latest outburst of little-
ness, Senator Givens remarked that the Federal Labor
party didn’t take much notice of Holman’s opinion on
anything. Under those circumstances, and in order to
.'reserve the homogeneity of Labor-in-politics, it is about
ip to the party in N.S.W. to get a new deputy-leader.
WEBSTER, M.H.R., the man who wrested the
Jawbone from Lieutenant-Colonel Neild.
“Side-Cut”: Be the wedding of Maud
and Grace, mentioned in B. 21/10/’O9. I knew a
draughtsman on the Queensland railways who went
through life as “Maria.” Another member of
the staff was Florence O’Driscoll, who afterwards
became a member of the House of Commons. In
this district a farmer ploughs, reaps and harrows
as Alma. I have not yet met a male Jane or
Polly, but I dare say they exist somewhere ; also
a whiskered Gertie is not beyond the bounds of
probability. I expect to meet them all sooner or
later. There was once a Pole in Australia called
Mr. Modest Maryankski—not, as might be sup-
posed, Mr. Peaceful Sarahjaneoff.
The recent death in Hobart of W. A. B.
Gellibrand reminds old Victorians of how the
point tfhat guards the entrance to the Yarra
got its name. W. A. B. Gellibrand’s father
it was who founded the Port Phillip Asso-
ciation, and in 1836 brought over from Van
Diemen’s Land, in the barque Norval, 1000
ewes, 84 pure-bred rams, and a plucky
handful of pioneers. They had a rough
time crossing, and had to make what is now
Westernport; and they had a rougher time
still tramping up the peninsula to the
Yarra. Gellibrand later on, guided by
Buckley, went out to the You Yangs and
took up section 12 of the Batman grant.
Next year he and a mate, Hesse, left Gee-
long to explore the land back of the Barra-
bool ranges—and the} 7 never returned. Six
or seven years later two skeletons were
found in that bush, either of which might
have been the pioneer’s. His was a valu-
able life —valuable in more ways than one.
The insurance paid thereon, three years
after his disappearance, was no less than
£ll,OOO.
The other day Abbott, of the Vic.
House of Fat, asked the Attorney-General
“ whether the Government would afford the
people of Victoria an opportunity of saying,
by referendum, whether they would con-
tinue to remain in the Federation.” Frpm
this it may reasonably be assumed that
Abbott believes in the referendum, and also
that the people should be given the oppor-
tunity of saying how they shall be governed.
Under those circumstances Victoria will know
what to expect from Abbott when presently
somebody moves for a referendum to decide
whether the State’s House of Rich Landlords
shall be retained or not. For that is a matter
which Victoria can decide.
Compositor Mee, who has been type-
stacking and pottering about the Brisbane Cockier
office and other parts of Australia since ’52, has
slugged his last galley. He was aged 90. He
had been over 40 years in the Courier office,
where he was the very oldest identity and looked
like an open defiance of nature. Some people
declare that he was the most patriarchal working
compositor on earth, and he ought to have been.
If there is any office with a comp, of 91 who hasn’t
been pensioned off, that place should be ashamed
of itself. \
Poor, harmless, old Henniker Heaton,
once of Sydney Evening News and for many
years member for mouldering Canterbury in the
British House of Commons, had half a window
dropped on his well-meaning head last week.
There was a banquet at the London Guildhall,
and all would have been calm and serenity arid
turtle soup, but unhappily two suffragettes had
got in disguised as charwomen. At a time when
everybody felt at peace with his neighbor they
broke a valuable stained glass window, and
shouted through the orifice “ Votes for Women.”
Henniker was just below, and a square foot of
glass was gambolling on his head while the ladies
made their remark. It was rough on Henniker, who
never said a really unkind thing to a woman in
his life—in fact, his manner towards the sex
suggests a saint dipped in oil.
F. W. Walker writes of the N.S.W. Par-
liament of ’s9—the one which the late Morris
Asher inhabited :
In your reference to the late Morris Asher (8.4/11/’O9)
you state he was the last of the old Parliamentarians who
sat in the Reform Parliament of 1859. There are, how-
ever, two of that far-back gathering still alive. E. M.
Sayers, who was elected for St. Leonards on June 17,
1859, is defying Time with something over 90 years to his
credit; and Samuel Lyons, elected on the same day, is
bearing the burthen of 87 years at Leura(N.S.\V.). Sayers
resigned on April 16, 1860, and Lyons sat till November
10, the same year. My father and uncle (W. F. A.
Cooper), both of whom died last year, vyere also members
of that Parliament. My father was elected on March 12,
1860, for Windsor ; and my uncle on June 20, 1859, for
Braid wood.
Now and then things do pan out story-book
fashion. The late Captain Charles, of Sydney,
when quite a young man, was just shoving his
schooner out of the wharf one night when a male
person of about his own age begged a passage. He
was unemployed, and he asked to be thrown ashore
anywhere, so long as the place wasn’t Sydney.
The captain did the Good Samaritan act with food
and some money, and cast his passenger ashore
down Shoalhaven way. There he settled, and in
time he accumulated much cow and became rich.
After a while there came a, time when Captain
Charles heard the financial snag howling at the
door and saw the wolf on the lee bow. At such a
time the man who has been assisted generally
rushes at his benefactor with his mouth open and
a judgment summons in his hand, but this one
varied the monotony of the tale by lending enough
money to keep the schooner off the rocks.
A COAL-STRIKE SIDELIGHT.
MOTHER : “Now, Tommy, you climb up on the
fence and say rude things to the engine-
drivers, and perhaps they'll throw coal at you."
The “ Loyal” Orange people met together
a few days ago to throw flowers at themselves,
and Wilks stated that the Orange political pro-
gramme was “ based on democracy,” and that the
election of Brother Snowball at Brighton (Vic.)
proved that the said programme must succeed.
Yet Brother Snowball’s first act in Parliament
was to vote for the preservation of the big estates
and against Murray’s land-tax. Snowball and his
fellow-Orangemen, Knox, Bowden, Balfour,
M.L.0., and “ Soapy ” Gray, are all democrats of
the same kind.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As soon as Mr. Harper sat down Mr. Deakin was on his
feet —grave, earnest and deliberate. Weighing his words
carefully, Mr. Deakin put the position plainly before
Ministerialists. ... As he went deeper into the subject
Mr. Deakin warmed to his work. He gradually dropped
the studied, deliberate demeanor with which he iiad
begun ; and with flashing eye, gesticulating hands, and
exultant voice he shattered Mr. Harper’s conclusions one
by one, and piled up weighty arguments in favor of the
agreement. He was at his best.— Argus (4/11/’O9).
Who is this Deakin, bold and brave, with fireworks in his
speech
That riseth up in Parlyment refined hot-air to preach?
Who is this Deakin, grave and grim, with thunder in his
voice ?
Whose flashing eye is fine when he in good deeds doth
rejoice ?
He is the nation’s pride—Australia's champion, is he not ?
Or is he but a relic of the dusty past which the Argus
finds herself obliged to use as a blessed slop-gap
against Labor—or what ?
Who is this Deakin? Friend of Reid—that best-beloved
one
For whom the Argus howled until his weary day was
done?
Good Georgie-Porgie, where are his resplendent flashing-
works
Who used to damn one Deakin while that Deakin spoke
of “ shirks ”?
Who is this Deakin ? Not the one we used of yore to
hear
Decried in distant ages by the Argus as being an ill-
advised supporter of Labor and friend of Progress?
Surely it is not the same old fireworking, vociferous
Deakin at whom the Argus used to sneer?
Who is this Deakin, so superb in mien and argument,
His energies on Argus schemes from morn to even bent?
There was one Deakin, years agone, in whom the Argus
found
Small comfort, and in whom few Argus virtues did
abound ;
But who’s this Deakin, quite unlike that other one we
knew—
That Alfred of the noble chest and large, expansive,
balloon-like sentiments, untrammelled by sordid con-
siderations of what the blessed Argus might hint as
to the insecurity of his job? No, it can’t be Alfred !
But, then, who is it? It is Alfred, with the Argus
patting him on the backhand Alf looking as though
he liked it ! Oh, Alfy, never ! Oh, Alfy, Alfy! can
it really be you l
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
TO G. H. REID: CONDOLATORY STANZAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The name of Mr. G. H. Reid is included in the list of Birth-
day Honors. He has been created a K.C.M.G.— A ews
Item.
I know it, George ; I own I’ve often said
Harsh, bitter, angry things, old man, of you ;
But now I sorrow for you, and will shed
A tear or two
On your behalf. In silent sympathy
I’ll wring your hand and pat you on the back ;
And pray that no such thing may happen me!
Alas ! alack !
Your politics were always rather crude ;
You’ve often argued yea and voted nay,
And often (please excuse me if I’m rude)
Your clownish way
And ribald wit have irritated me.
(Indeed, to hear you jest was passing sad.)
But still, I never thought I’d live to see—
It is too bad —
You treated thus ! It really is too bad !
I hardly thought King Ned would be unkind
Knough to so behave. What’s that, by gad ?
You do not mind ?
Then you deserve it! Yes, by Jove, you do !
O Anti-Sosh ! O Reid ! O Avatar !
0 Ichabod! Away! Avaunt! Goto!
Pooh ! likewise BAIT! !
Victoria.
HARRISON OWEN.


THE great Southern Plateau is traversed
by the main southern line, the
first point of contact being at
Pic ton, 53 miles from Sydney, and it reaches
its highest point 2330 ft. above sea level at Exeter,
distant 93 miles from the Metropolis. The main con-
tributors to the district’s great reputation as a sana-
torium are its cool, bracing, revivifying climate, its
natural mineral springs, and its beautiful scenery. Moss
Vale, the centre of the district, is widely known as a fashion-
able and popular tourist resort, and within a few miles of it
on the same railroad are Picton, Bowral, Mittagong, Bunda-
noon and Exeter, where Dame Nature has nursed many con-
valescents back to full health and vigor. The district is
rich in beautiful resorts, which lie within easy distance of
the railway stations. In the forefront of these are the
Fitzroy Falls and the Twin Falls, which lie close to the road
to Nowra, part of the famous route of the round trip to
the Southern Highlands and the Illawarra district via
Moss Vale and Nowra. A good driving road from Moss
Vale, Mittagong, or Bowral leads to the Wombeyan
Caves, which rival the marvellous formations of the
underground caverns of the Jenolan system. The
chalybeate spring, the waters of which h ive a great
medicinal value, is situated close to Mitta-
gong.
The Government Tourist Bureau, Challis
House, will furnish full particulars of the
routes, accommodation and cost, in connec-
tion with any of the resorts of the beau-
tiful southern district. It is not
generally known that coupon tickets
can be purchased, wlych are avail-
able for the journey to Moss
Vale and return via Nowra,
or vice versa.
THE SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS.
1. On the coast near Nowra. 2. A glimpse of Big Jack Mountain. 3. A typical view of the Illawarra Hills.
4. The Shoalhaven near Nowra.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” CAS ENCINE and PLANT STS
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
« NATIONAL " ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
'Represented Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
BOILERS FOR MINES.
We have a magnificent stock of Large Boilers for
all Mining Purposes, for working pressures of
1201 b. and 1501 b. per square inch, by Ruston
' Proctor, Marshall, Robey and others, all in
practically new order, and ready for immediate
delivery.
CAMEL HAIR 1
BELTING
"•'ttreßcg
BELTING.
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Mining purposes. Sole Agents,
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT & BENDIGO.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Western Australian Bank (Perth,
W.A.): —
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1903.. £18,780 171 p.c. = £5,750 £10,030 £258,566
Sept., 1903.. 20,974 171 „ „ 8,750 12,224 270,790
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 31,250 302,040
Mar., 1904.. 22,278 171 p.c.= 10,93 S 11,340 313,380
Sept., 1904.. 24,846 l7i „ „ 10,938 13,908 327,288
Mar., 1905.. 21,233 17£ „ „ 10,938 10,295 337,583
Sept., 1905.. 21,369 20 „ ~ 12,500 8,869 346,452
Premiums on 2500 new shares .. 25,000 371,452
Mar., 1906.. 20,556 20 p.c.= 12,5Q0 8,056 379,508
Sept., 1906.. 24,059 20 „ „ 15,000 9,059 388,567
Mar., 1907.. 24,758 20 „ ~ 15,000 9,758 398,325
Sept., 1907.. 27,993 20 ~ ~ 15,000 12,993 411,318
Premiums paid on 2500 new shares 31,560 442,878
Mar., 1908.. 23,568 20 p.C.= 17,006 6,562 449,440
Premiums on new shares .. 11,372 460,812
Sept., 1908.. 21,457 20 p.c.= 17,500 3,957 464,769
Mar., 1909.. 25,238 20 ~ „ 17,500 7,738 472,507
Sept., 1909.. 27,429 20 „ ~ 17,500 9,929 482,436
The authorised capital is £250,000 in 25,000 £lO shares ;
so far 17,500 have been issued, leaving 7500 still to be sent
out. Of this lot 2500 will be offered to shareholders dur-
ing the current six months, though the terms have not
yet been decided upon. Usually they are offered pro
rata at a premium ; but once or twice tenders have been
invited, though that plan doesn’t appear to be popular
with the bulk of the shareholders. The last lot was, how-
ever, got rid of like that: the average premium realised
was £l7 2s. 3d. At that price the 20 per cent,
div. pans out a return of £7 7s. 6d. per
cent. The bank’s reserve position is very strong.
As remarked just now, there are only 17,500
shares issued ; so the reserves (£482,436) are equal to
about £2B per share. When the other 2500 shares are
issued, the average amount of capital and reserves per
share will be £35 125., assuming that a premium of
£l2 10s. is charged for the new lot. This looks remark-
ably good business. It isn’t often you can get £35 12s.
worth for £22 10s. Of course the question arises : Are
the reserves real? There is no visible reason for suspect-
ing them. If there were many dead accounts and over-
valued assets, the earnings would be poor ; but they are
very good. On the basis of capital and reserves combined
they have lately been as follows :
Mar., 1906.. £8 14 5 p.c. Mar., 1908.. £8 711 p.c.
Sept., 1906.. 9 1 9,, Sept., 1908.. 617 5 „
Mar., 1907.. 9 310 ~ Mar., 1909.. 717 8 ~
Sept., 1907.. 10 4 2 „ Sept., 1909.. 8 9 5,,
There are only two or three better averages than that in
these parts. The reserves, then, seem to be all right at
present. No doubt they may suffer from a slump in
Westralia. But, though Westralian State finance has
been rotten, private finance over that side has on the
whole, been prudent; and a very great deal of the money
made locally out of the goldfields has been put into farming
land. It is quite a eommon thing to find the goldfields
business man—occasionally also the Perth or Fremantle
man—with a farm on the Midland Railway or somewhere
in the south. This bank has encouraged that sort of
thing. To begin with it wasn’t a t’othersider’s bank. It
always seemed—quite rightly—to view goldfields with
suspicion ; but it has been pursuing the wheat and pump-
kin accounts with much energy. It has about 70 branches'
now, in view of which, by the way, the premises account
is extremely' small. Without very much trouble this
bank could establish an Australian record and wipe that
item out altogether—which would mean an internal or
hidden reserve equal to the selling value of the premises.
Recent progress in regard to some details is
shown hereunder :
Sept., 1908. Sept., 1909.
Notes in circulation.. £114,315 £127,972 Inc. £13,657
Bills, etc .. .. 212,175 161,432 Dec. 50,743
Deposits at interest.. 901,755 1,041,833 Inc. 140,078
Free Deposits.. ..1,013,548 974,306 Dec. 39,242
Liquid assets .. .. 1,011,953 1,022,720 Inc. 10,767
Advances .. ..1,822,109 1,890,030 Inc. 67,921
Premises .. .. 65,000 67,730 Inc. 2,730
Liabilities total £2,305,543. Liquid assets represent over
44 per cent, of this lot—another strong feature. Further,
for every £1 of shareholders’ money in the business
(capital and reserves) there is under £3 10s. of
the public’s. This low proportion of borrowed
money means extra security for the depositors, etc.;
though when things settle down still further in the West,
after the big gold yields and dividends fall off, the diffi-
culty of getting deposits may handicap this business,
which has no branches in Melbourne, Sydney or Adelaide,
where the big deposits are to be got.
■* m * *
The N.S.W. State Bank, officially known as
the Government Savings Bank of N.S.W. :
Profit. Reserves.
Dec., 1900 £25,008
June, 1901 £26,959 51,967
„ 1902 21,601 73,568
~ 1903 18,992 92,560
Loss.
„ 1904 33,905 58,655
„ 1905 20,817 37,838
~ 1906 21,663 16,175
Dec., 1906 4,484 11,691
Profit.
„ 1907 2,9459
Accumulated interest on guarantee >- 19,654
deposir, with Commonwealth, £5OlB J
Received on an adjustment of ac-
counts with the Treasury, £30,000 49,654
Dec., 190 S 9,115 58,769
There are two Savings Banks in N. S. Wales. One is a
Government bank, formerly worked in conjunction with
the Post Office, but now controlled by Commissioners.
The other is a semi-private concern, known as the
Savings Bank of N.S.W., and managed by trustees ap-
pointed by the C°vernor-in-Council; and the Governor is
its President. Private Enterprise has some sort of an
idea that the latter bank isn’t Socialistic ; but it is an
absurd idea, for there are no proprietors and there is no
capital, and the management is exclusively in the hands
of State nominees. Seeing that there is a genuine State
bank in existence, it is about time that the Government
intimated that it must withdraw its patronage from the
other concern ; for the existence of the two under pier,
sent conditions is a shrieking anomaly.
The figures at the top of the foregoing remarks
refer to the Savings branch of the Government Bank. It
will be noticed that there has been a big- increase in re-
serves during the past couple of years. For a long while
the concern had been managed anyhow. When it. was
under the State’s control the Post Office was habitually in
the hands of the joke or make-weight of the Ministry ;
and this bank, being part of the Post Office, suffered in
much the same way as the other branches. When the
Commonwealth took over the Post Office and left this
savings bank behind, the mismanagement continued to a
great extents The Treasury was nominally' in charge, and
the Post Office was paid a commission for the work it did.
Finally, things were straightened up in 1906-7: at the
end of the former year a commission was appointed, with
Alex. Mclntosh, the very experienced ex-general manager
of the Bank of New Zealand, as president. When the Com-
monwealth took over the Post Office and
took over the Savings Bank, £25,000 was handed over to
the Commonwealth as till money. In 1907 the interest
on this amount was paid to the bank’s credit. The com-
mission also went into accounts with the Treasury ; and
the muddle was squared up by the Treasury paying over
£30,000, which the Commissioners passed to a reserve
fund. That explains the two items which drop into the
table towards the tail end of it.
During the year, Alex. Mclntosh went out, and
another experienced banker, R. A. Warden, came in;
and the reorganisation and modernization of the business
has been continued. The deposits have grown rapidly,
and so have the profits. As to the former, this shows the
recent shoot:—
1899 .. .. £5,485,035 1904 .. .. £7,475,05S
1900 .. .. 6,045,622 1905 .. .. 7,952,885
1901 .. .. 6,647,289 1906 .. .. 9,322,923
1902 .. .. 7,100,108 1907 .. .- 11,128,495
1903 .. .. 7,018,425 1908 .. .. 12,118,772
The figures for 1906 are really for 18 months, the balance
being then changed from June to December. Of the
£12,118,772 which the bank owes to the public, and the
£58,769 which is all it has of its own, the State has bor-
rowed the following:—
On Funded Stock £8,027,632
~ Treasury Bills .. .. .. 1,430,586
~ ~ Deposit .. .. 150,647
~ ~ ~ (uninvested) 1,162,613
Total £10,771,478
The balance is £1,406,063 ; and this is cut up as follows :
Advance Department (Advances to Settlers), £471,657 ;
mortgages, £155,860 ; the balance on deposit with other
banks (about £380,000) or in municipal bonds, etc. The
amount of regular banking business done is wretchedly
small; but it is growing. Practically all there is of it at
present is included in the two items mentioned above —
advances to settlers and mortgages. Of course, as regular
banking business grows, the reserves will also need to
grow.
The advances department is only two years
old. Previously there was an Advances to Settlers’
Board, loosely hitched on to the Lands Department. It
was looked upon as a semi-charitable concern, to which
it was the right thing to go when it was no use going
anywhere else. The position is briefly as follows
Nominal
Reserves.
Taken over from A. to S. Board .. £14,319
Profit.
1907 .. £4735 .. 19,054
Written off, old A. to S. Board losses, £17,132 1,922
1908 .. 4661 .. 6,583
The total amount of advances outstanding at various
dates has been as follows :
Dec., 1906 .. .. £401,741
„ 1907 .. .. 423,511
. „ 1908 .. .. 592,078
The progress is a little better than that, because some of
the old loans have been written off as bad. In one respect
the existence of the old Board has been a curse to the
new bank ; for it got borrowers into the way of thinking
that it didn’t much matter when they paid up. Hence
the Commissioners’ remark that “many borrowers do
not show the same commendable promptitude that is
shown by borrowers from kindred institutions in other
States, and their attitude in this respeot amply
justifies the strenuous efforts made by the Commissioners
to keep borrowers up to their obligations.” To which
borrowers might, by the way, retort that the Commis-
sioners don’t show much “commendable promptitude”
either. The Victorian bank’s much bigger transactions to
June, 1909, for instance, were reviewed in this column a
month ago ; but it has only now been possible to get from
the N.S. W. Commissioners the material for this review of
their operations to Dec., 1908. In other words, the
N.S.W. Commissioners have taken 10 months to do what
the Victorian Commissioners did more completely in
three.
The National Insurance Company of New
Zealand, Ltd. (Dunedin, Muoriland): —
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1899.. 20,028 12£ p.c. =12,255 7,773 115,681
1900.. 26,388 12£ „ „ 12,255 1000 13,133 128,814
1901.. 24,600 12£ ~ ~ 12,255 12,345 141,159
Premiums on new shares .. 2,029 143,188
1902.. 32,436 1 124 p.c. = 12,500 19,936 163,124
1903.. 27,622 15 ~ „ 15,000 12,622 175,746
1904.. 38,414 15 ~ ~ 15,000 —' 23,414 199,160
1905.. 26,009 15 „ ~ 15,000 552 10,457 209,617
1906.. 43,626 15 „ ~15,000 28,626 238,243
1907.. 26,096 15 „ ~ 15,000 11,096 249,339
1908.. 30,591 15 ~ „ 15,000 15,591 264,930
1909.. 33,666 15 ~ „ 15,000 3234 15,432 280,362
Down to 1908 this was the National Fire and Marine
Insurance Co. of N.Z., and the liability of shareholders
was not limited. Just before September, 1908, the co.
was registered afresh, and its new title appears on top of
these few remarks. The amount shown as written off
during the past year is money spent on the reconstruc-
tion of the co. and the co.’s offices. Some people had ex-
pected that when the co. registered anew it would trans-
fer some of the reserves to capital, and thus, by a common
little trick of window-dressing, make the rate of dividend
look smaller. However, it didn’t; so the paid capital is
still only £lOO,OOO, or 10s. per share, leaving a liability
of £9 10s. That, no doubt, is a shade more comfortable
for the wealthy shareholder than an unlimited liability ;
all the same, when the firebell rings at night even a
£9 10s. liability isn’t calculated to make him turn over
and dream pleasant dreams. Still, if he worries about it,
the missus is well justified in pointing out that between
a conflagration and a call stands the splendid reserve
fund of £280,362—0ver 28s. per share. From either the
shareholder’s or the insurer’s point of view the position
is, in fact, extraordinarily strong, the proportion of
capital and reserves to risks, as judged by net premiums
last year, is no less than 330 per cent. Other details
follow:
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59"2 p.c. 32'0 p.c.
1900 .. .102,264 54,991 , 99,950 63.8 ~ 29’4 „
1905 .. 107,648 '58,996 36,402 54'S „ 33'8 „
1907 .. 110,035 62,727 36,925 57’0 „ 33'5 „
1908 .. 113,171 59,504 39,483 52-6 „ 34’9 „
1909 .. 119,146 60,201- 42,645 50’5 „ 35’8 ~
And the position is being strengthened fast. Interest and
rent last year brought in £17,361, which was much more
than enough to pay the dividend, leaving all the under-
writing profit and more to go to reserves. But there
is another side to this. No less than £226,479 is out on
mortgage ; and, though that means exceptional interest
earnings, equal to very nearly 5 per cent, all round on
the investments (including mcney on deposit and short
call), it is also liable to mean heavy losses; and it also
adds a bit to the expense rate, for mortgage securities
are not very cheap ones to handle.
■* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
(Melbourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £18,922 Bp.c. =£3,000 £2OOO £13,922 £28.563
1900.. 16,184 8 „ „ 3,000 2000 11,184 39,747
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 27,247
1901.. 27,789 8 p.c. = 4,000 23,789 51,036
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 38,536
1902.. 25,059 8 p.c. = 5,000 .— ; 20,059 58,595
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 46,095
1903.. 27,453 Bp.c.= 6,000 21,453 67,548
£25,000 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 42,548
1904.. 36,579 Bp.c.= 8,000 28,579 71,127
1905.. 26,069 12 „ „ 12,000 14,069 85,196
1906.. 45,886 20J,, ~20,500 25,386 110,582
1907.. 31,572 201 „ ~20,500 11,072 121,654
1908.. 35,413 20i„ ~20,500 14,913 136,567
1909.. 37,960 21 „ „ 21,000 16,960 153,527
This isn’t yet the strongest insurance co. in the Com-
monwealth ; but it has had far more energy than most,
and, as the rapid increase of reserves shows, it is fast
putting itself into a strong position. The reserves would
have increased much faster, too, had numerous big bites
not been taken out ot them to feed the capital. The co.
began in a very small way. Ten years later, in l°Bs,
when the accident business was started, the shareholders
had only put up £25,000. After that some calls were got
in, and the total was brought up to £37,500. For years
the shareholders had a poor time. As a matter of fact,
the offipe had been trading beyond its means, and onlj
good luck and a very confident management saved it;
and even that sort of management cut off dividends abso-
lutely for a while. The accident business in those days
must have been a gold mine ; and things gradually im-
proved until in the end the whole £lOO,OOO of capital was
paid up out of profits. There are, however, another 150,000
shares unissued. The energy of the management is
shown in some of the following figures:—
Net Pre- Loss Expense
miums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £61,653 £29,526 £24,433 47'9 p.c. 39’6 p.c.
1900 .. 95,254 49,101 32,113 51 ’5 „ 33'7 „
1905 .. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45'0 „ 40’8 „
1907 .. 156,990 72,829 61,343 46'4 ~ 39‘0 „
1908 .. 156,769 69,321 62,038 44 "2 ~ 39'6 „
1909 .. 162,386 67,700 66,012 417 „ 407 „
In 10 years the premium income has been nearly doubled
—a splendid record. A few more Australian fire offices
could do with the same push ; for several of them are a
heart-breaking lot, who let the foreign offices walk right
over and past them. Some of them even say, after a little
thing like that has happened, “ Oh, I beg your pardon I
didn’t know I was in the way.” The assets look, on the
whole, very good. Nothing is tied up in mortgages;
£lOO,OOO (equal to the whole capital) is in public securi-
ties, and £65,000 is on fixed deposit. There is, however,
a miscellaneous but smaller lot of other assets which may
be good, bad or indifferent: Real estate (book value),
£31,017 ; debentures (other than Government and muni-
cipal), £12,722 ; shares of other cos., £34,978. The return
from all the investments averages a shade under 4 per
cent. The profits for the past year, by the way, would
have shown up £lOOO better but for a vote of that size to
an officers’ provident and superannuation fund; and if
that’s the doings of new manager Walter Tucker, who
after about 30 years’ service succeeded late manager
W. L. Jack, he sets off carrying this paper’s best Sunday
blessing with him.
0 ■* * *
The Maoriland State Fire Insurance Office,
which began regular business early in January, 1905 (the
deficit up to then represents preliminary expenses)
Ex- Added to De-
Dec., Revenue. Claims, penses. Reserves, licit.
1904 .. £1,026 £1026
Reserves
1905 .. £13,136 £2,418 6,738 £3980 2954
1906 .. 20,991 10,312 7,215 3464 6418
1907 .. 23,302 12,701 8,355 2246 8664
1908 .. 26,909 18,904 10,146 6523
So the year’s loss was £2141, owing mainly to the big
Christchurch fire. The reserves were thus reduced to
£6523; but that includes the reserves for unexpired
risks. The office, assuming that 40 per cent, of the pre-
miums ought to be put by to cover the probable losses on
unexpired policies, reckons that that reserve should
amount to £10,663. On that basis there are no real
reserves, but a deficit of £4140. Things haven’t gone too
well with the office ; but things rarely do go well with an
insurance office during the first few years of its life. And
things are likely to go less well than usual when nearly
every man’s hand is against the office—when, at any rate,
every man in the business joins hands with every
other man in the business to wipe it out. The great
desire to wipe out this office suggests that somehow
other offices don’t think it quite the harmless thing they
mostly represent it to be. No doubt, in the beginning,
it made a mistake itself. It needlessly antagonised the
cos. by rate-cutting, or by allowing it to be understood
that it would cut rates. But it isn’t its fault that cut
rates have been continued; and it isn't its fault that
rates were cut as they were. In any case, the office has
started, and the people have to see that the Government
isn’t squeezed into killing it in its infancy. All the
capital it has had so far is £2000; and upon
that amount it has paid interest regularly. Moreover,
its assets are unimpeachable ; and that can’t be
said of some co.’s assets. For instance, the other day
when one Sydney life office was taking another over, the
valuation agreed upon for the head office of the taken-
over office was £45,000, although it had been standing in
the books at £115,000; and the Dunedin (M.L.) office
property, which had stood at £13,313, was by agreement
written down to £7500. There is no stuffing of that kind
here, at any rate. The assets are cash and public securi-
ties. And generally, if the top hamper isn’t as yet im-
posing, the foundations are being laid on the safest
principles.
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. £2,048
Reserves.
Mar., 1904.. £115,172 Nil 113,124
Sept., 1904.. 129,502 12J p.c. =£78,780 163,846
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12 ~ ~ 78,750 £8,764 235.087
Sept., 1905.. 201,985 121 ~ ~ 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906.1 267,795 20 „ ~126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906.. 251,095 25 „ „ 157,500 10,071 568,907
Mar., 1907.. 282,938 32£ ~ ~ 205,074 11,515 635,256
Sept., 1907.. 150,625 35 ~ ~220,551 11,740 553,590
Mar., 1908.. 141,730 20 „ „ 126,168 9,723 559,429
Sept., 11#8.. 168,130 171 „ ~110,364 12,006 605,189
Mar., 1909.. 141,683 171 » 110,372 10,153 626,347
Sept., 1909.. 155,081 17£ „ ~110,300 9,930 661,198
This co. is a fusion of the old Mt. Lyell and North Lyell;
those two cos. deacooked in 1903, since which date
£1,335,000 has been paid in dividends, equal to 225. 3d.
per 20s. share. The estimate made of ore reserves at the
first balance after the fusion was as follows : Mt. Lyell:
4,495,310 tons, worth 0‘59 per cent, copper, 1’990z. silver,
and o‘o4oz. gold. North Lyell: 170,494 tons, worth
6’25 per cent, copper, 2 - 250 z. silver, and 0 - 005 oz.
gold. The present estimates are Mt. Lyell: 3,101,455
tons, worth 0 - 53 per cent, copper, 1’960z. silver,
and o‘o2Boz. gold. North Lyell: 777,594 tons, worth 6
per cent, copper, 1‘330z. silver, and o'oosoz. gold. Mt.
Lyell supplies the fluxing ore, and North Lyell supplies
the sweetening ; and the great increase in the reserves of
sweetening ore, owing to the fine developments at 850 ft.
and 1000 ft. levels, makes the outlook for the mine very
pleasant.
Since the fused co. started, the ore handled,
apart from small quantities of purchased ores and fluxes,
has been 2,441,063 ton's, of which 716,878 tons came from
North Lyell. If the ores are smelted in the future in the
same proportion, then in order to see the Lyell supplies
out there will need to be 1,300,000 tons got from North
Lyell, which means that it will he necessary to develop
another 530,000 tons there besides the present reserves.
Assuming that that quantity will be got, there will be a
total of 4,401,000 tons of ore available. In the past
six years, since the presenteo. started, the dividends have
averaged 10s. lid. per ton of ore. At the same rate for
the 4,401,000 tons the dividends would be £2,402,200, or ah
almost exact £2 per share. That, however, it must be
remembered, assumes that another 530,000 tons of ore
will be developed in the North Lyell. On the other hand,
it has to be remembered that a good deal more profit has
been made than has been distributed ; for not only have
very large sums of money been put into artificial-
manure making plants, but there was also on Sept.
30 a surplus of £481,240 of liquid assets over lia-
bilities. There is no telling how the superphos-
phate business is doing. From the way in which
the co. is extending it, though, there seems to be a lot of
money in it. Besides the works on the Yarra and at Port
Adelaide, another big plant is now going up in VVestralia.
These works stand in the books at £129,835.
The half-year’s profits work out at £155,081,
less depreciation and dividend-tax, which reduces them
to the £139,851 mentioned in the directors’ report. This
seems to be under-estimated, if anything, because the
held-over copper is 207 tons more than it was at the end
of the previous half-year, and this metal is only valued at
£5O per ton. Apparently, 4277 tons were sold during the
half-year. The net profit was therefore at the rate of
£32 14s. per ton. Copper averaged £5B 11s. Bd. during
the half-year, or £25 17s. Bd. more than the net profits.
In other words, it cost all that was got from the by-
products and £25 17s. Bd. per ton of copper to pay. costs.
These costs were a shade heavier dunn a J
This shows the movement: —
>lar Mar., Sent., Mar., Sept.,
1905.’ 1908. 1908. 1909. 1909.
Mining,etc. .. 4/11-91 6/4‘35 6/B'9l 6/6-53 6/7v2
Smelting .. 6/5*13 7/9-60 7/1 v 9 /7 28 872
Converting .. 1/7-35 1/2'44 1/1 21 1/1 '9 L-i - 4
13/0-39 15/4-39 14/11 ‘91 15/3'60 15/5-68
Thev are still amazingly low. Smelting at 7s. Bfd. per
ton must make the mouth of m”)' * c °p^t^ he s t uff Yna
water. It is the mixture that does it. Put the stuff
pot, light it, and it just about smelts itself. *
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd., wool-
brokers, etc., (Sydney):- Written To Be- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
IS:: tS,
1 QA-i « i9f) 7 ~ 7000 10,000
lll- 7 7000 2,500 1692 17,789
1903'.: 7” „ 7000 2,000 U 17,803
1904.. 8,845 7„ „ 7000 2,000 17,648
1905.. 11,778 7„ „ 7000 ?' ®
1906.. 14,805 7„ „ 7000 5,000 2805 25,231
1907 17 767 7 ~ 7000 5,000 5767 30,998
1908:.’ 13’, 568 7„ „ 7000 3,000 3568 34,566
1909.. 17,721 8,, „ 8000 9721 44,-87
Twelve months ago it was remarked that the return of
visible profits to the old standard, and the wide margin
between earnings and dividends, suggested the proba-
bility of an increased dividend ; and it arrived this half-
year. The co.’s reserves are, however, comparatively
small; and until they are considerably strengthened, and
the capital therefore better safeguarded, the directors
ou<dit to move very slowly in this matter of bigger divi-
dends. For the debts are heavy ; and not only the co. s
money, but a great deal of the public’s also, is in securi-
ties which are liable to very severe depreciation. This
shows the position im 1909 .
Debt on mortgage £97,000 £78,000 £60,000 £50,000
Other debts .. 77,383 115,605 87,686 66,380
Freeholds (cost).. 179,514 179,514 189,514 189,514
Total written off „„ J ._ ...
freeholds .. 9,514 26,014 44,514 47,514
Advances, etc. .. 121,770 173,082 143,752 123,168
The freehold property consists almost exclusively of
warehouse and office premises near Circular Quay pro-
perty which will always, no doubt, be very valuable , but
it is a moot point whether the wool business won t before
many years have to be concentrated in some other pait
of the city. For many years the directors steadily wrote
something off premises account, probably with this in
their mind ; but they have dropped that habit this year,
and transferred £3OOO to a new fund for equalising divi-
dends —which is a proper enough fund within certain
limits, provided that every security has already been
written down to bedrock. No opinion can be formed
as to whether that has been done or not. The co. started
in 1882 with a heavy goodwill item ; the latter has been
completely wiped out, and that, at any rate, speaks well
for the past methods of the co’. Also, the fact that the
last of this goodwill was wiped out in 1895 by the transfer
of £40,000 from reserves partly explains why reserves are
no larger than they are.
« * * *
The Brisbane Permanent Building and
Banking Co.
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
Ang.. Frofits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £4711 3Jp.c. =£3BBl £332 £498 £17,201
1900.. 5618 3} „ ~ 4464 315. 839 18,040
1901 .. 6193 4 ~ ~ 4758 567 868 18,908
1902 .. 5448 4 ~ ~ 4761 640 47 18,955
1903 , 4808 4 ~ „ 4763 394 18,606
1904 .. 4227 3i „ ~ 3899 284 44 18,650
1905.. 2867 Nil 16,322 5,195
1906 .. 1353 Nil 542 6,006
£24,393 capital written off and added
to reserves .. .. .. ... 30,399
£22,874 written off properties .. .. 7,525
1907.. 1970 2 p.c. = 1746 1,181 6,568
1908 .. 2633 2 ~ ~ 1746 1,632 5,823
1909 .. 3800 3 „ ~ 2620 828 352 6,175
The co. in its present shape was formed in 1888, and was
caught in the swirl of the boom and carried on to the
rocks, where it remained for many years, feeling very
sick, but afraid or ashamed to find its damages
really amounted to. The process was, in fact, postponed
till 1906, when a revaluation was made, and tne capital
written down, assets being written down to correspond.
It doesn’t look as though the axe was sharp enough, for
even the written-down values have not been realised ; but
the directors say that their “ efforts in the disposal of
unproductive properties in possession have been so suc-
cessful that only a comparatively small residue of such
properties now remain. The losses on sales will therefore
in future he very greatly reduced, and will finally disap-
pear altogether.” No doubt—provided the co. has the
amazing good luck never to make any more bad advances.
Even now the co. has £187,393 represented by “ advances
on mortgage, properties in possession, and freeholds”
(apart from office premises, £10,000), and there may be a
pound or two to wipe off in that little lot before they are
all done with. The paid capital is now £86,067 ;
the deposits amount to £119,765. Practically all
the capital and deposits are therefore in advances,
properties, and office premises; and in view of
the riskiness of Brisbane property, and especially
in view of the large amount of the public’s
money which the co. has sunk in that property, the
director-sought to sit down hard on dividends and build
np reserves. Brisbane may have a big future ; but it will
probably severely bite a lot of people again before that
future is realised. Even now it seems to begetting un-
easy, and wants to hurry the big future by a borrowing
boom ; and as sure as it attempts anything of the sort
there will be disaster. If this co. isn’t careful it will be
underneath when the brick falls.
•*■*■**
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd., who carry on a
furnishing and drapery business in Sydney and elsewhere,
and do much of it on a time-payment basis :> —
Deficit
(Goodwill
Dividends. not
■ s reckoned
Pt-ef. Written as an
Aug. i Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinal)-. off. Asset).
1.905 - - - - £49,039
1906.. £30,656 £4954 7£p.c. = £11,250 £1694 36,281
1907.. 33,279 6000 7£ ~. 11,250 2538 22,790
1908.. 33,603 6000 8 ,„ 12,000 2971 10,108
Reserves.
1909.. 35,473 6542 S 12,712 2660 3,401
There is a prejudice against the time-payment business,
because it has been chiefly exploited by sharks. There-
fore, for some time after this concern was passed over
to a public co., the investor looked at it from the other
side of the street. By degrees, however, he got into the
middle of the road, and then more or less furtively in-
spected iQfrom the nearest kerbstone ; and the business,
he saw, was capable of being conducted with a fair
amount of decency,, after aIL Moreover, there were good
profits in it; and that settled his doubts. He began to
ask for shares, and they passed into steady circulation ;
and if they have no hope of getting into class 1., they are
at any rate steadily pushing their way up into
class 11. The business was established in 1883, and the
co. took it over in 1902. At that time the goodwill stood
at £72,377. That is to say,, there was that much of the
new co.’s capital not represented by tangible assets. As
shown above, this deficit has now been wiped right out, and
an actual reserve established. The co.’s own accounts do not
show it that way : on one side they show £53,401 of
reserves, and on the other £50,000 of goodwill; but one
merely cancels the other.. It is excellent progress.
In 1906 the paid capital was £250,000 during
the past year it has gone to £300,000. Of this, £175,000
is in ordinary shares, and £125,000 in 6 percent, cumula-
tive preference shares. Of the past year’s addition £25,000
is preference capital. The time-payment business calls


You cannot
Control your
Executor
and you therefore want one com-
bining Strength and Security
with technical knowledge and
business ability, so that your
Estate will be safeguarded and
preserved for the benefit of your
heirs. This can be best ensured
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
2, 4 (Si. 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Fraser § (palmers,
LTD.
(Th» English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Offices—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Roller Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also’know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Roller Bearings.*
* * « *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel,'keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. One bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd.,
corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
» * « •
Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing is the most
reliable and economical engine packing for marine and
land engines of every type. Bell’s “Condor” Packing for
high-speed engines and super-heated steam. Bell’s
Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition saves 30 to 40 per
cent, of the coal bill. For high-class boiler mountings
and blow-off cocks, Bell’s Asbestos-Packed Fittings should
be specified. 316 KENT STREET, SYDNEY ; 328 Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; Beach Street, Fremantle *
- * tt *
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast Smelting
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions of
this furnace are as follows—l6Bin. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom —thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne.* [2
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets.
In large size, Bin. x 4in. x (about) Jin. thipk, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney.* [1
* * * *
CAPE EXPLOSIVE WORKS Ltd. Suitable
explosives for every purpose. Blasting Gelatine* for
deep mines. Gelignite, for deep mines. Lig.-Dyns,
for railway and quarry. Flameless Explosives for coal
mines. Many of the world’s largest contracts have been
placed with the celebrated works at Somerton West,
South Africa. Agents in all cities. NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd., 109 Pitt Street.*
* • * '* .
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estiinates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
The Post Magazine & Insurance Monitor,
London, of 31/10/’OB, in commenting upon The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited, writes:—
“ Wherever the Society has gone it has stood for sound
life assurance principles, and it can look back upon one-
third of a century of useful work.”
Refractory Mines.—Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process; Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
;>!* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * •
Genuine Balata Belting.— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Trnax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., corner King and Clarence Streets, Sydney ; 612-616
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 87-89 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
•*■*■**
The Bolinda Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinda are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.*
* » » *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria,*
* * * ■*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Codlison <fc Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write,us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * ■* *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* ■* • ■*
Mather & Platt’s Double Acting 2 Cycle Gas
Engine presents an interesting proposition to the
manager of mine, works or mill. It is the only gas
engine in which an impulse is given with every stroke,
which gives the highest degree of regularity in running.
For work requiring variation of speed no other gas engine
can compare with this type; for reliable working and
durability it is equal to the best steam engine. Gibson,
Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128
William Street, Melbourne, as Sole Agents, will send
catalogues, to those interested.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
for a lot of money ; and even the shareholders’ capital
isn’t enough. Therefore there is this :
1906. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Morfcaces . £40,800 £40,800 £38,000 £36,000
Other " 65,’262 82,745 109,501 65,324
Total .. £106,062 £123,545 £147,501 £101,324
This debt as well as the pref. capital comes in ahead of
ordinary shares. It’s all right, of course, while thmgsgo
rio-ht' in times of prosperity it’s very pleasant to pocket
what ’this money earns in excess of 6 per cent. But m
bad times these preferent creditors have their little
innings. Nevertheless it is a fair thing to observe
that "the average profit put by in the past four
vears has been £13,110 a year, so that after paying
the preferent creditors and shareholders there was
enough left to pay the other shareholders 171 per cent,
instead of 7| or 8 per cent. Or put it this way : Assum-
ing the total capital and borrowed money in the business
ha's averaged £380,000, then in the past four years it could
have earned 3| per cent, less all round, and there would
still have been enough to pay all the interest and divi-
dends that have been paid. The capital and borrowed
money are represented by these assets :
1906. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Stock .. .. £96,965 £108,970 £133,463 £138,570
Book debts .. 124,289 139,424 148,337 154,106
Freeholds .. 77,093 80,581 83,889 89,226
Leaseholds .. 14,093 12,855 11,813 14,755
Plant, etc. .. 17,354 18,314 17,401 17,217
Cash .. .. 3,943 1,861 4,440 7,106
Freeholds are kept in at cost. Leaseholds and plant are
written down an average of about 9 per cent, per annum.
“ Patent rights” have disappeared—presumably written
off. There is no formal reserve against bad debts;
but the profit on trading is shown after providing for
them. The declared profit therefore depends largely on
the management’s idea of what ought to be written off ;
also, on its idea of the value of the stock. In fact, it is
the sort of business in which nearly everything depends
on the management. One has only to look round and
see the faded signs of old shop-businesses that used to
flourish, but have disappeared, to realise that. Certainly
those old businesses weren’t joint-stock concerns. There
was nobody to sack the bosses when they lost their grip.
But the trouble with the joint stock company-owned shop
business is likely to be that it will not usually realise that
things have slumped until it is too late.. These
remarks, however, don’t apply specially to this concern.
They are one fly in the ointment of this class of
concern in general—a small fly, which will prevent such
stocks from ever getting into class I. of investments.
•*•***
Mosgtel Woollen Factory Co. (Dunedin,
M. L.): —
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. server serves.
1901.. £4582 6 p.C. =£4352 £5O £20,459
Premiums on new shares.. .. £B5 20,544
1902.. 8666 7 p.c. = 5842 £3BOO 19,568
1903 7272 7 „ „ 5842 1500 19,498
1904 .. 667 3£ „ „ 2921 —.— 17,244
1905 .. 3312 3| ~ „ 2921 328 63 17,307
1906 .. 2483 .21 „ „ 2086 552 , 17,152
1907 .. 5093 4 ~ „ 3338 1695 60 17,212
1908 .. 7073 5 „ „ 4173 2746 154 17,366
1909 .. 7230 5J ~ „ 4590 2500 140 17,506
The co. is making headway again after drifting into
shallow water and getting too close to the rocks to be
comfortable. No doubt the prosperity of the country,
whether artificial or otherwise, has been mainly respon-
sible. Certainly it couldn’t have been an export trade
that did it, because, in spite of the splendid quality of
Maoriland woollens, the Dominion hasn’t yet been able to
do much in the way of shipping those goods to the Aus-
tralians and other benighted foreigners. In 1898 the
exports of woollens were worth in all £9634 ; 10
years later they had only. got as far as £10,677.
Practically all of that came to Australia; but Aus-
tralia sent back twice as much. Still it isn’t what
Australia sends over that worries the Maoriland woollen-
miller. His curse is the cheap product of European
factories, to which the cast-off sock is handy—and the
European woollen factory hates to see an old sock wasted.
The M.L. Government has given the M.L. factories no
extra protection, although in the last 10 years imports of
these foreign woollens and alleged woollens have grown
from £293,449 to £474,204. As to home production, the
figures for 1905 are the last given in the official statistics
of Maoriland. In the 10 years up to that point the total
quantity of wool consumed annually in the local mills in-
creased only from 3,485,8931 b. to 3,835,0641 b. The tweed
branch of the industry has made no progress whatever ;
what little progress the industry has made has been
wholly due to the increased output of flannels, blankets
and rugs—the things into which least labor has to be
put. On that account the position, front the national
point of view, is not even so good as it looks ; and it only
looks very moderate. More Protection is obviously
wanted for tweeds ; and, until it is granted, the future of
the Mosgiel and other cos. can’t be very bright; for the
Maoriland market for blankets is limited—for tweeds it
is vastly greater. The co. certainly has got its dividend
up to 5£ per cent. ; but, in view of the wretchedly small
amount laid by to reserves, the wisdom of these
repeated rises is very doubtful. Of course, £2500
has been written off for depreciation in the 12 months,
but that, though it looks a lot, is only a shade over 4 per
cent, on the value of the plant alone;; and in view of the
rapidity with which plant has to be scrapped in these
days in order to enable a mill to keep pace with its com-
petitors, 4 per cent, isn’t a cent too much. The debts are
moving up a little, but for a woollen mill co. they are not
heavy, and on the other side book debts are very small: —
Liabilities. Book Debts.
1907 .. £15,302 .. £7532
1908 .. 20,104 .. 5520
1909 .. 26,679 .. 8430
The capital is £83,457. The chief assets are plant and
buildings, £64,183 ; warehouse property and land, £9795 ;
the book debts mentioned above, and £49,492 of goods
wholly or partly manufactured and raw material. A good
deal naturally depends on the valuation of the last-named
item ; yet it has to be taken entirely on trust.
The Ballarat Woollen and Worsted Co.
(Vic.):-
Dividends on Added
Capital as to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Written Down, serves, serves.
1903 .. £4484 15 p.c. = £4498 £17,375
1904 .. 4599 15 „ „ 4498 £lOl 17,476
1905 .. 3162 11§ ~ „ 3500 17,138
1906 .. 2786 10 „ „ 3000 16,924
1907.. 1655 5 „ ~ 1500 155 17,079
1908.. 3039 10 ~ ~ 3000 39 17,118
1909.. 3166 10 „ „ 3000 166 17,284
Formerly this co. used to issue accounts once in six
months ; but nowadays the balance is yearly, and in the
foregoing table the results of the earlier pairs of half-
years have been lumped together to make the thing
uniform. Once upon a time the co. had £60,000 of capi-
tal ; but the competition of foreign mungo and other
goods was so severe that finally half this capital had to be
written off as evaporated. Therefore the 15 per cent,
divs. shown above are not quite what they seem ; they
really mean only 7£ per cent, on the money invested.
Under the first piebald tariff of the Common-
wealth Parliament the co. slid rapidly towards bank-
ruptcy. Dividends slithered down from 15 to 5 per cent.,
which last really only meant 2J per cent. Further, in
the struggle to hold its end up, the co. had to get in a
great quantity of new plant; and as it was useless to ask
the public to put money into a concern which was sliding
into the bog, the co. had to mortgage the whole outfit to
raise cash from the bank. In September, 1899, the over-
draft, less cash in hand, was £BB3 ; and the co. then had
its insurance fund held separately on fixed deposit. Ten
years later—on September 30, 1909—the insurance fund
had been absorbed in the business, and the
net overdraft was £21,074. Fortunately, W. Lyne
biillocked his tariff through, and so probably
saved this co. and this industry’, which pays over
£25,000 a year in wages, apart from fuel, etc. But the
shareholders’ risks are still considerable. No matter what
trade may be lik •, interest on the big debt has to be paid.
Depreciation, moreover, is now a heavy item, and whether
enough is written off to cover it there is no way of tell-
ing. Still the Ballarat Co. has made a good name for its
tweeds and woollens ; and, besides the help of the tariff,
this and similar industries are getting the benefit of the
growing good-Australian spirit—the spirit which prompts
the buyer to look up the label, and take pride in buying
the good goods of his own country.
* ' * ■* *
Originally the British Broken Hill’s contract
with the Elmore people was for a five-unit plant; but it
has lately been increased to 10 on the strength of the
profits shown by the Zinc Corporation and others.
•*■***
Broken Hill has another water-famine threaten-
ing. A three months’ dry spell up there is quite ordi-
nary' ; yet there is only two months’ supply' in the
reservoir. Broken Hill occasionally gets the idea that it
knows just how to run the universe ; but over this water
business it has been so feckless that one has doubts some-
times whether it has enough foresight to run a plate of
peas.
* * • *
The new directors of the Broken Hill Junction
are up against that inconvenient old animal, the horny
dilemma. They said before they were elected to the
Board that the old tailings and slimes, which had been
sold outright, could have been treated on the mine at an
extra profit of 7s. a ton. The man who bought the tail-
ings says he doesn’t want them, now’ that he knows them
better, and is willing to sell them back to the co. at the
price he gave for them, plus a few’ pounds to cover
expenses. But the new directors are anxious to start
the mill, and they can’t do it until they have made certain
improvements, and the £7500 paid for the tailings is about
all the cash they have to make the changes with. So, now
that they have the chance to buy back the tailings, they'
find that they are driven into doing precisely what the old
directors did ; and yet the new directors threw the old
directors out for doing it—it and a few other things, of
course.
* * * *
The basis of the Horwood process, results from
which were mentioned here last week, is that, by roast-
ing mixed sulphides at a low temperature, the lead sul-
phides are converted into a sulphate, while the zinc
sulphides are not appreciably affected. The result is that,
when the roasted material is treated by oil-acid flotation,
only the zinc particles rise. These are floated off as a
zinc concentrate ; the residue, containing the lead, is free
enough from zinc to be a smelting ore. In the Tasmanian
complex zinc ores, the gangue is mostly iron ; and as that
is oxidised and left with the lead, the mixture is a fine
one from the lead smelter’s point of view.
* * * *
Lake View Consols (W.A.) battles on. The
position underground is about the same as it was a few
years back, and development work now, as then, just
manages to keep a little ahead of the mill. About 12
months ago some rich ore was met with for about 30ft.
below the No. 19 level; but just as the co. was beginning
to build golden hopes on the discovery the high values
vanished, and subsequent development proved the lens of
ore to be small and isolated. Working costs have been
reduced to a minimum, and a profit of about £l6OO is
being made each month.
It’s a handy sort of a gold mine to have about
the premises that can report its aggregate production in
tons avoirdupois. The Ivanhoe (W.A.) makes a practice
of doing so. To the end of September its little lot was
40 tons 7cwt. 2qr. 241 b. ; total value, £5,600,331.
Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.) is obliged to chip a
bit more off the monthly return. In a circular dated
London, October 6, the Board states that, owing to the
uniformly low grade of the ore remaining in the mine,
the general managers consider it necessary to materially
reduce the value of the present output, and the directors
have sanctioned such reduction, beginning with the
present month. The circular adds that it is impossible
to give any estimate, but it is believed that the property
can be profitably worked for several months. The Board
has given instructions to push ahead and try to find new
bodies of payable ore so long as the cost can be met out
of the monthly returns. The circular also refers admir-
ingly to the co.’s Nicaraguan options, which, according
to the resident manager, have great possibilities.
* • * *
The mine-owners in the West are getting ready
to go to law over the Commissioner of Taxation’s claim
for £31,142, duty alleged to be due by reason of their
having paid dividends in full without deducting theamount
of duty alleged to be payable under the Act. The case
of the Golden Horseshoe Co. is to be taken for test pur-
poses, and the decision of the Court will be an important
one, seeing that it will also apply to future dividends.
* * * *
It appears that dissatisfaction was expressed in
London over the Hannan’s Star-Boulder Deep Levels
amalgamation, just as it was at Kalgoorlie, yet the news-
paper reports of the shareholders’meetings say that the
fusion resolutions were unanimously adopted. How this
unanimity came to pass is a mystery to Australian
holders. Was the opposition out having a drink, or was
it intimidated while the motions were being put ? Or are
London reports of shareholders’ meetings “ official ”
which mostly means faked ?
• * * •
The Financial Times, London, has suddenly
discovered that Associated Northern (W.A.) is an
anomaly. The surplus for the year ended September last
totalled £38,000, and adding (sa3’) £5OOO for interest on
investments and deducting £BOOO for taxes and London
expenses, £35,000 (or 2s. per share) remains. Yet none of
this has so far been distributed. The assets left over from
the previous year are still intact, and with the profit in
band they equal Bs. 3d. per share, or Is. or so more than
the current market price. But, as The Bulletin has
grown weary of pointing out, Bs. 3d. is only worth Bs. 3d.
when it is safe and sound in the shareholders’ pocket, and
not otherwise. The excuse given by the Board for not
disgorging the bulk of the wealth in hand is that a new
property is being sought. .
White Feather Main Reefs (W.A.) is a rare
throw-in for directors and general staff. The co. does no
work itself, yet the just-issued annual report shows that
the expenditure at the mine for the period ended January
last was £lO9B and the revenue £356, while the London
outlay was £1246 and the receipts £22. Mine manage-
ment mopped up £4OO. five directors cut up £650, and
the balance went in salaries and etceteras. In other words,
it cost £2344 to manage a total income of about £1 a day.
No wonder no undue haste has been shown in presenting
the accounts. The co. had £3741 in hand when the year
closed. Well, there’s 18 months’ living in that for some-
one, with care.
Golden Links (W.A.) has acquired new life
during the past year, and now looks rather well. The
bulk of the shares, however, are held by Lionel Robinson
and party, and until they say how they intend to raise
additional capital for treatment plant the rush to “get
in ” is not likely to result in anyone being trampled on.
After the Hannan’s Star and other jokes that have been
put up on them, Western speculators have a wholesome
dread of stocks that require financial support. They
want to kndw what the guarantors’ “cut ” is first.
* * * -K
Since the beginning of this year Westralia’s
output of some minerals other than gold has been as
follows: Coal, £61,016; tin, £48,770. Copper returns
are not complete, but those from the principal mining
centre (Phillips River) amount to £14,796, making a total
production from this field to date of £172,309. Still,
shareholders have not reaped a dividend, and probably
very few ever will.
* * * *
Gwalia South (W.A.) has just induced Lionel
Robinson, Clark and Co. to pay £lO,OOO spot cash for
10,000 new 10s. shares, and to take an option for 12
months over the remaining 30,000 on the following cash-
on-delivery terms: —20,000 at £1 and 10,000 at 255. This
deal adds £lO,OOO to the working capital right away, with
the off chance of a further £32,500 being secured later on.
The mine is said to be on the up grade. Anyway, the
directors must have shown Lionel Robinson and Co. some-
thing to induce them to launch out and take the risk
mentioned above.
11 * ■* 9
It is paragraphed in London that the Great
Fingall intends to complete its West African option on
the Wassau Extended, Atarnsoo Deeps and Tarkwa Main
Reef properties. This will mean the purchase Of 795
acres in the centre of the Tarkwa field, of which 378 acres
is deep-level ground and the remainder outcrop. To
work this mosquito-plagued area it is proposed to form a
new co. with a capital of £395,000 in £1 shares. The
vendors are to take 170,000 shares, and 135,000 will be put
aside for working capital, leaving 90,000 in reserve. Of
the working capital, half will be subscribed by the Great
Fingall and the remaining half by the other interests, the
subscribers receiving an option on the reserve shares at
255. Probably a couple of the Fingall directors and G. P.
Doolette will have seats on the Board, and the job of
bossing the show will be vested in 8., M. &00.
Great Fingall’s prospects are still uncertain.
The deeper of the two winzes below No. 13 level is down
about 630 ft. on the incline, and is being pushed down
further still. This is the deepest point reached in the
mine, the vertical depth being about 2050 ft. below the
surface. The reef is still going down strongly, but is low
grade. Extensions of main drives and prospecting by new
crosscuts have proved resultless in the upper levels, but
a little ore is being got from some parallel lodes on the
West Fingall, Golden Crown and Smith’s United leases.
•
The Brilliant P.C., Charters Towers, has to
carry 260,000 shares, and it will take a fairly good reef in
the co.’s Stockholm mine to satisfy that number. The
last crushing was 1015 tons for £3OBl, including gold from
concentrates and tailings. The Stockholm workings con-
tain some good blocks of stone, but the intervening
blanks of low-grade stuff will make costs high. Profits
have, nevertheless, been made since the railway was
finished, so a small dividend may arrive before long. The
old Brilliant itself is about done, and what remains is in
the hands of tributors.
Carrington United, outside Charters Towers,
may be expected to pay a dividend soon. The half-
yearly return was 3633 tons for £10,007 and 420 tons of
concentrates. There is a big accumulation of the latter,
and 500 tons have recently been sold. The last fort-
nightly return was 291 tons for £721 and 42 tons of con-
centrates. The extension of the various levels east and
west from No. 3 to No. 7 should provide a good deal of
stone. The weak feature is the big number of shares.
* * * «
A big expansion of copper smelting has lately
trebled the import of coke from N.S.W. and Germany
into Queensland. The State has coal in abundance ; but
it has so far done little to turn it into coke. The N.S.W.
fields are especially well situated to turn out coke for
Northern use ; yet Germany is competing keenly with
them. High coastal freights are partly responsible. But
another factor is the habit Germany has of using up by-
products. Thus the waste gas from its coke ovens or
retorts is pretty generally used to drive engines and
supply electric power ; so that when the metal trades are
dull coke can be shipped at a low rate to Australia.
Between these two competitors the Queensland coal-mine
owners reckon that they would probably be badly
crushed, although, with Mount Morgan so handy, some
of the Central Queensland people have made up their
minds to risk it in a small way.
Chillagoe (Q.) treated 6402 tons during October
for 394 tons lead, 217 tons copper, 39,4540 z. silver, and
48oz. gold. The gross value runs to about £20,000, and if
this is all Chillagoe, Munggma and Einasleigh can turn
out, it isn’t enough to brag about. At Mungana the
deepening of the main shaft at the Girofla below 567 ft.,
and the sinking of a new shaft at the Lady Jane, will be a
heavy drain on the co.’s purse, so speculators are letting
somebody else nurse the baby for a while.
* * * *
The reconstruction- of the Great Northern,
Gympie (Q.), isn’t going through on pneumatic tyres;
and the management is suffering from some nasty jars.
At the me< ting at Gympie the other day both the mine
and its control were severely handled, not always justly.
Sydney shareholders, who have a very big interest, are in
some danger of losing it if they don’t keep awake.
tt * » *
Central Bananaland is tohaveaFitzroy Timber-
Milling Co. if the public will toe the line with the neces-
sary coin. Since the abolition of the pig-sty system of
timbering at Mount Morgan, the use of square sets has
created a big demand for timber. This, together with a
probable market at the Great Fitzroy and on the Dawson
Valley line, has urged the promoters into an outburst of
hopefulness. They even expect to supply the timber for
the Port Alma line—which shows that they look forward
to the co. living more than a day or so.
* * • *
Victoria United, Ballarat East, is one of the
old-fashioned goers which keep that mining centre alive.
Two or three sixpenny' divs. come each half-year, £20,000
or £30,000 are spent to get the gold out of which these
divs. are paid, and shares dodge along as quietly
as a mute at a funeral. Nevertheless, the Victoria
United has a good record as a gold producer. Over
£450,000 has been dug out, but divs. only represent 10 per
cent, of thatsum. Still, as only £16,166 has been called up,
even £45,000 or so means a good return on capital. The rest
of the money has gone this way : £131,000 in wages and
salaries, £120,000 in contracts, £33,000 for ironmongery,
£48,000 for crushing, £14,000 for cartage, and £26,266 for
fuel, the small balance being for odds and ends. Among
these odds and ends are directors’ fees, which for all the
years the co. has worked aggregate only £917. Imagine
that, ye Mt. Lyell and Broken Hill aristocrats ! The
mine is only down to 1400 ft., and it looks better now for
a fair run of divs. than for long past.
0 * * *
Russell’s Reef, Lauriston (Vic.), has its small
band of devoted admirers. It likewise has as cross-
grained a set of call-payers as ever faced a legal manager
or an underpaid board of directors. The formations the
co. works are saddles ; but, unlike those at Bendigo,
they'are mostly of the inverted order. Why there should be
less gold at the bottom of the trough than at the top of
the saddle would puzzle even “Geology” Dunn to explain.
The mine has not been a poor gold producer, for £130,800
has been won to date, while £58,000 represents
paid-up capital. The cash has gone this way : Working
account, £130,546; plant, £14,846; dividends, £39,583.
So plant and dividends tot up fairly close to the total
of the paid up capital, leaving the gold won to just about
cover working costs. These latter have always been
heavy', and with no payable stone in sight have of late
run up to 30s. 6d. per ton ; but no less than 11s. of this
has gone in development, so that the mine is being
opened up well. A mining treble is relied on at the
moment. The hope is that three saddles will make at
about 1300 ft. Should any one of these “ pig ” out gold, a
body of old-fashioned mining' stickers would get a well
earned reward.
The S. Aus. Woollen Co. has reconstructed
itself, with a capital bf £40,000 ; and half a dozen of th»
best-known citizens of Adelaide will be directors. The
head mill will still be at the hills township of Lobethal.


A FAVORITE
SUMMER DRINK
\
HEERING’S
Cherry BRANDY
try IT.
HAIR THAT FALLS OUT.
Most people do not begin to worry about their hair
falling till it has grown appreciably thinner. If they
took the right measures at the first sign of hair trouble,
it would not take long to stop it falling and make it
health} 7 again under the rigMt treatment. If it falls out
in any noticeable amount, there is bacteria present; and
only by curing the disease can they expect to do any good
Mrs. Cowling, of the Hygeia Institute, is a hair specialist
who has become well known on account of her wonderful
successes in the cure of greyness. She has equally satis-
factory results in the treatment of all other hair troubles.
She prescribes always for the individual case, and is no
dispenser of patent nostrums under high sounding names
which promise to do the impossible—cure every hair and
scalp evil under the sun with one remedy.
Patients may see Mrs. Cowling at her rooms, Dept. B,
Hygeia Institute, Ocean House, opposite Government
Savings Bank, Moore Street, Sydney. She gives free
consultations every afternoon but Saturday, between 2.45
and 4.45 ; and on Wednesday, by appointment, from 6 to
7. Her Telephone number is City 608.
R*BMt
ROBUR
SERVED
37
I say, deah, you’re looking
fri’fully ill! What’s up? out
of sorts ? a cup of tea will do
you good—they serve nice tea
here, it’s Robur. Been out
shopping really there’s nothing
worth looking at this season,
is there ?
Do you know, deah, I’m be-
coming quite a tea bibber, and
since we commenced to use
the Robur tea l feel l
wouldn’t miss my afternoon
cup for anything —do you
take milk and sugar in yours,
deah ? —one lump! they say
Robur is the purest tea
that can be got —it’s certainly
very nice now, isn’t it?
The Bbck Girl.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLA
A
WOMEN’S
LETTER
Sydney, November 16, 1909.
My Dear Arint,—
Cranbrook, the State Government House, will
be, as to interior, a reverie of beautifully-tinted
wallpapers by the time Lady Chelmsford returns
from visiting her own people. There are such a lot
of her own people—-her two immediate progenitors
and eight brothers and sisters. About Fremantle
she will hear of the death of her uncle, the Guest
gentleman whose soul was required of him a few
days ago whilst he was shooting with Edward
VII. and the Prince of Wales. It is an untidy
sort of proceeding to fall down dead in the royal
presence, and I am told that in Germany people
who have a habit of doing such things are not
allowed to shoot along with the Sovereign. It
isn’t that the Sovereign objects to them being
dead, but the deceased’s gun may go off while he
is falling, and the Kaiser is as likely to get the
contents as anybody else. And the Kaiser hates
getting contents.
(The above allusion to Edward VII. reminds
that a historically-inclined person has just pointed
out to me that there is no such person. To be
strictly and historically accurate, he is Edward X.
of England, Edward I. of Scotland and India and
Australia, and Edward VIII. of Ireland, and
when he was Prince of Wales he was Edward VI.
The present Prince of Wales is Geo. IV. And
he offers to prove all these things.)
But about the re-papering of Cranbrook. The
dining-room will blush to a soft, crimson radiance
of a paper with a classic victor’s wreath. The
staff-room will turn ivory white as to complexion.
His Ex.’s study will neutralise to the most un-
obtrusive of grey-greens, like burnt-up mignon-
ette, and the vice-regal youngsters’ rooms may he
a mklange of either pink roses rioting over the
paper’s surface, or gay parrots darting amongst
the foliage of the Jap flowering plum, whichever
the vice-regal infants choose. If they be the
average human type they’ll choose the pretty
cocky pattern.
That uncommonly pretty and wholly fascinating
young widow, Mrs. Telford Young, is to marry
the Hon. (I don’t know exactly how far he has
got in the Hon. business, but I know he is Hon.)
William Herbert Wood, Chief Secretary of
N.S.W. I very nearly put a note of exclamation
after the announcement, so great is the surprise it
has caused. Everyone knew the shy, peppery-
tempered, middle-aged politician was rushing after
the lady with all his might, but rushing doesn’t
always mean arriving. However, Mr. Wood is to
be congratulated on winning the prize. She is very
rich, too; but that’s a detail with a woman of her
attractions. The late Mr. Telford Young (cap-
tain by courtesy) was on the staff of one of our
State Governors when he met Miss French. She
is a daughter of General French, who commanded
the N.S.W. Forces from ’96 to ’O2, and has one
little girl.
Senator Walker’s second daughter Janetta; the
baby of the family, said “I will” to her aide-de-
camp, Captain Ralph Verney, last Thursday at the
Woollahra kirk. She “willed” in a gown of
charmeuse, veiled in the latest thing of silver
tissue and filmy chiffon. A mass of Brussels lace
draped the bodice fichu-wise, and was carried in
sash formation to the skirt. The longest thing in
court trains was borne reverently behind one of
the fairest brides Sydney has ever seen. This
glorified tail was lined with drawn ninon, and
draped with Brussels lace. The old Honiton lace
veil, presented to the bride by the Countess of
Dudley, is said to be a Very Precious Thing. It
has been cleaned countless times, and mended as
often. It is an heirloom of sorts, but as to whether
it loomed in the Gurney family or the Dudley
clan, report is silent. As well as presenting the
blush-hider, the Countess lent her children for the
ceremony. The young Chelmsfords also frolicked
chapelwards, and afterwards to Wallaroy, where
the bridal duo stood in a kind of floral shrine
to be congratulated. Captain Gilliat, of
the Dudley staff, dressed in his best auriferous
clothes, gave the unfaltering ’groom the moral
support he didn’t need.
Miss Eadith Walker, cousin of the bride, who
gifted the lace on the bride’s gown, was a fine
grey study amongst the thousand lilies of the
decorative flower scheme. She was in grey ninon
over aluminium satin, and her sleeveless coat had
as much bugle and aluminium decoration as it
could artistically carry. It was to Miss Walker’s
Yaralla place that the pair of honev-birds went
for their mooning. Yet Mr. Arthur Allen’s cot
at National Park hasn’t tumbled down from the
shock of ncn-selection.
Captain and Mrs. Newly-wed Verney depart
by the Orontes this week, and will be absent
four months. When they return, the Grenville
Millers, of the Chelmsford staff, will have booked
their cabins for northern voyaging. The new
A.D.C. Napier made his debut at the Verney-
Walker wedding, looking unappropriately funereal.
He is, by the way, unappropriated ; and naturally
the girls look upon him as a blessing for that
reasdn —not a blessing in disguise either.
Judge Heydon has at last gone in for double
blessedness for the second time. For years,
report has engaged the fashionable widower to
divers spinsters and widows ; but this time fact,
not fiction, waves the orange blossoms. A girl, a
youngster of 22 or so, with (according to the mar-
riage notice in the morning dailies) the uncommon
name of Lybel (Lybel Russell) has taken the legal-
musical-golfer gentleman into her tender keeping.
Miss Russell is described as a daughter of Jago
Russell, of Shepparton and Melbourne.
This comes to me without a date and that on
the envelope is undecipherable, so I don’t know
how withered are the orange-blossoms of the para-
graph :
Barcaldine, away towards where the soft, lascivious stars
leer from the velvet skies, as some poet has it, was greatly
uplifted the other day, when Miss Dalzell, a grand-
daughter of the deceased Morganaire Ferguson, changed
her name to Whittingham, and became the squatteress
of Alice Downs. One feature of the “I will” busi-
ness was a wedding cake 751 b. in weight and stand-
ing 4ft. in its socks. The decorations got right away
from clasped hands, arrow-pierced hearts and the
like, and were anything Australian from a horseshoe
to a pack-saddle or a leg-rope in the twist of a lover’s-
knot. It was rather a satisfactory sort of idea, especially
for the grand-daughter of John Ferguson, who spent most
of his moneyed life as an absentee in Fogland. The
bridal brace have honeymooned off to that land. The
cake-maker, too, has something of a record, for this
last sonata constitutes the seventh wedding composition
he has manufactured for the Ferguson family. If there’s
anything left of the first cake he made, it is 27 years old.
The liner Otranto, laden with about 1000 per-
sons (including new Archbishop Wright, wife,
three daughters and son and 700 immigrants),
is the latest thing to struggle over the
rim of the great saucer of heaven. The im-
migrants will strike the strike, and have a chance
to see how we do that sort of thing in this
country.
Some one who was at the first night of “ The
Country Girl ” enthuses over a wrap or coat of
blue ninon worn in the theatre by Mrs. Philip
Morton. It cloudily enveloped the wearer, and
its wide falling-away sleeves were broadly tucked
as far as the elbow, where a gold edging finished
them. A wide band of black velvet closed the
blue scheme at the throat.
“ U.S.” sends me a line about some of my poor
relations: —
The Harriman widow is now millions ahead of the other
rich women of the globe. She has 60 millions—
pounds, please ; not paltry dollars. Here are others of
Poverty Point: Mrs. Sage, 16 millions ; Mrs. Walker, 16 ;
Krupp’s daug'hter, 16 ; Mrs. Green, eight.; Marchioness of
Graham, five; Duchess of Roxburghe, four; Mrs.
Oelrichs, four ; Mrs. Cousino, four ; Countess Szeehenyi
(Vanderbilt), 2£ millions ; Mrs. Creel, two; Mrs. Morrison,
nearly two. Widow Harriman is open-minded to the
Press. Would she emulate Mrs. Sage in giving away
heaps of cash? No, she wouldn’t. Harriman was one of
the most charitable of men, not a miser like Sage ; so there
isn’t the same need to buy fire-insurance as there was in
the Sage case. Harriman left his lady all his money.
That was right, for the fortune really came from her as
daughter of Averell, the Rochester banker. Without the
start she gave Harriman in 1873 he would have been
knocked out just at that time. She has four unmarried chil
dren, and so in the end the fortune must be divided up ;
therefore it will cease to bulk, and will gracefully melt,
like that of the Vanderbilts. She will not enter upon any
Carnegie schemes, nor will she slack off building and fur-
nishing the million-pound mansion begun by her lately
cemented ; so if the worst comes to the worst the poor
thing will have a roof over her head, anyhow.
Our late visitors, the Jack Londons, after
leaving here and wallowing across the trough of
the Pacific to Ecuador during 40 days and 40
nights, have gone back to their farm, Glen Ellen,
in California, and settled down to unload the
stock of literary material acquired in recent land-
travel and sea-faring. Two thrifty folk are the
Bill Liverpools—thrifty with their intellectual
coin, I mean. They were ever alert to keep
probable “copy” from the possible interviewer.
Mrs. Harriman, the American widow lady
who I feared would have to take in plain sewing
if her late husband left her only the £20,000,000
reported, is fortunately out of the zone in which
is sung “The Song of the Shirt.” She has
£60,000,000, and is now the richest woman in the
world. A visiting American who knows her says
she is wise and unassuming, with nothing of the
smart-setter in her make-up ; and she has four
unmarried and some married children. The
American visitor says he frequently heard the
late Harriman mention his intention of “ having a
look in at Australia”—when he could save up the
passage money probably.
Mr. J. T. Brown, of Langlee, Waverlev, one
of this State’s commercial magnates, is announcing
the dispersal by auction of his collections of pic-
tures. miniatures, silver, ivories, bronzes and
valuable furniture. They will be “dispersed”
during two days of this week, which is a hasty
time considering that they took many years and
much travel and discrimination and a pile of
wealth to accumulate. The Browns contemplate
a European trip, but may not leave Sydney for
possibly half a year.
Miss Ella Gaspers, the young Sydney girl with
the beautiful contralto, sends with pardonable
pride a copy of her “ maestro’s ” letter, written at
the end of her first term. The letter will make
good reading for the Associated Board and those
who helped Miss Caspers to go for foreign study.
It speaks of her voice as “a glorious instrument,”
commends her earnestness as a worker, and con-
siders it a privilege to teach her.
The Tom Currans, jun., formerly of this city,
were met holidaying in the Isle of Wight last
month by a bunch of Sydney tourists. The
tourists report them as good as new; and the
gallant Tom is fairly exuding politics, as usual.
Assuredly some things are done more quickly
in New York than in most other spots. Recently
Mrs. Astor, a N.Y. society leader, filed a petition
for a divorce. The trial—so the cablegram alleges
—was over and done with in 55 seconds. No
names were mentioned in court —how could they
be mentioned in that time? How, for that
matter, could anything be mentioned ? In my
mind’s ear I hear that trial. Enter breathless
Judge. Arises breathless lawyer : “ Yer Honor,
we apply for adi v—” Breathless Judge : “ Why,
yes! Of course! Cert.! Take the old thing.”
Exit breathless Judge. Wild leap for the door by
breathless lawyer.
A casual scrap from London records that Ruby
Lindsay, now Mrs. Will Dyson, was belle of the
ball on the steamer Osterley, bound Bull wards,
and won first prize by popular ballot for the
best and most original costume. Ruby repre-
sented a Grecian lady of the time of Aristides the
Just, and if the Greek ladies of those days looked
even half as pretty, it is no wonder the Greeks
were so constantly defending their hearths and
homes against foreign marauders. Any healthy
marauder would have attacked a bigger country
than Greece with half the provocation.
Miss Rosina Buckmann, the best soprano
Maoriland has produced, has fugued to Melbourne
to appear as Illyrine in “The Dandies.” This
brings her into J.C.W.’s employ, which is a good
chance, and no doubt means a stiddy job.
You remember little Pete Hughes, who used to
be in the same employ, but as a theatrical agent
or business manager or some such. He died
awhile ago in Sydney, and his widow, after being
given a benefit, went back to her own
place, New York, and started a boarding-
house. She was most unfortunate in getting
lodgers of the strongly artistic temperament —
persons who don’t think of paying their debts,
and assume that the landlady is fed by ravens,
like the distinguished Israelite of old. Lately she
went for a holiday to somewhere, leaving the hash-
barn in charge of a friend. On her return, the
friend and the furniture had gone. This was
sorrow’s crowning sorrow. The widow gave up
the struggle and got married. As the humorist
in “Cinderella” delicately puts it, she is now a
“ twicer.”
Mr. musician Sykes, of the beautiful button-hole,
presents a pupil to the complacent public on
Tuesday, November 23. at a grand piano recital
at the Y.M.C.A. Miss Louie Foulis is the
damsel named on the shell-pink card of summons.
And there is further notification that the whole of
the programme will be from the works of Liszt.
The assisting artist is Miss Sussmilch.
There was another tuning-up of ears with tea-
finale last week at Beale’s showrooms, when a
jolly little musical programme was carried out by
Miss Violet McNeil, Mr. Percy French and others
whose names are undecipherable in my corres-
pondent’s handwriting. It looks like cuneiform
inscription, and my education in old Babylonian
characters has been neglected. Also I have for-
gotten all my Hittite.
Edwin Geach ought to be wearing a Billildns
smile along with his stror ’at these days. You
know the Billikins smile? It is the most expan-
sive grin since that smiled by Alice’s Cheshire cat
in Wonderland. Away back in the Anno Domini
of the closing years of last century “Geachie”
bought a piece of land near Inverloch in Gipps-
land. Now the Victorian Government is going
to-run a road (railroad I suppose) through the
possession to Inverloch, and Geach’s white ele-
phant will declare a dividend, which is a thing
that animal seldom does.
Miss Eva O’Connor, a contralto who went hence
a while ago, would seem to have no cause for
grievance against the land where she has set
down her music-case. While singing at East-
bourne in the Bull Country she got an offer from
a vaudeville manager, and there ensued a tug-of-
war between the prospect of earning 60 lovely
pounds a week and her anxiety to make her name
and fame on the concert platform. Lust of gold
won, and she signed a three years’ contract. Her
“turn,” when last mail left London, was pic-
turesque and unusual. Robed in white and
wearing two long Marguerite plaits of hair, she
sings “ The Rosary,” playing her own accompani-
ment on the organ. An orchestra aids, and the
result is so satisfactory that the singer gets eight
or 10 recalls a night. “The Lost Chord” and a
group of Irish folk-songs are other musical goods
that the audiences delight to hear her deliver.
This class of work, so a Sydney homer tells
me, is well paid abroad. A Miss Margaret
Cooper, who is being starred at the London
Palace as an entertainer, was working for a bare
living before she hit upon various “turns.” She
was trained at the Royal Academy, and is a fine
pianiste ; but the U.K. is stiff with fine pianistes
who can only make a living. This damsel’s
“ turns” bring her a salary of £BO a week. The
management announces that. Supposing the
margin for exaggeration to be very wide and that
she is getting half what is announced. Well,
£4O a week is p-r-e-t-t-y good.
Mr. Bert Gilbert, who dropped out of the
Apaches’dance in “ The King of Cadonia ” that
he might go to the mountain peaks and the holy
hush, is back in Sydney and carrying 141 b. extra
weight. Fat in his case—a little extra fat—is
force, and he will go back to mumming presently.
Venerable Howard Vernon and his young wife,
who was Miss Vinia de Loitte, were spoken in
Paris by a cruising Australian. The operatic
craft told the cruiser that they were meditating a
tour of India.
Mention of Vernon’s name reminds of the
success his son is making as the Rajah of Bhong
in “The Country Girl.” If heredity and environ-
ment count for all the scientists say, young
Vernon couldn’t miss success. He was born in a
theatrical dressing-room in Japan in the old
Shinto Theatre. Pa Vernon was playing Hamlet
in a Japanese company at the time.
A friend in London writes to tell me of the suc-
cess in the new romantic opera “The Moun-
taineers ” of Mr. Claude Flemming, who is a
Sydneysider and was once a J.C.W. employee.
He has a good stage presence and a fine baritone.
The gem of the bpera, the “ Doubting ’’ song, fell
to him, and his dealing with it so delighted its
composer, Reginald Somerville, that he became
demonstrative, and the singer thought for a second,
as the breath was squeezed out of him, that a bear
was embracing him. Unfortunately, “The Moun-
taineers,” as one learns from the London press, was
a failure.
A new terror is upon the “ Answers to Corres-
pondents.” The ladybird is asking questions, and
in English fashion papers you may now read :
“What is the best costume for a lady when fly-
ing?” Ans. : “The best aeroplane dress for
ladies is made of leather, which can be obtained
in any color, and is lined inside with silk. The
jacket is short, and is fitted with a stand-up
Collar and straps at the wrists to exclude draughts.”
Presently in the “Amongst those present”
column we’ll read that “ Mrs. and Miss Buster-
Cross wore aeroplane costume, the tan leather
hoods being lined with pale-green silk. Miss
Buster-Cross’ kid knickers were fringed with
comet’s hair.”
Concerning a Melb. friend, her veil and some
emotions :
When my friend Pansy said my nose was coming through
my spotted veil, I groaned and made a bee line, for a
draper’s. There must be an ancient Persian—not cat—
strain in the family, for I dearly love to face the public
veiled. The languid young sales-lady turned over the box
of veiling with scant interest. At last I selected some-
thing that I felt sure would make me look a mixture
of a burglar and a fever patient. I said in a smal',
faint voice that I would like to put it on. The young-
woman gave a resigned sigh and shrugged her shoul-
ders, at the same time touching a mysterious cord which
caused a wobbly mirror to appear from the sky. Pansy
clutched it with the firm hand of friendship, and I
proceeded to place my appearance for the afternoon in
the hands of the tired veil-lady. After rustling' and claw-
ing at my hat and back hair like an infuriated
rat, the tirewoman said she thought that was right,
look in the mid-air mirror showed me a bloated woman
who appeared to be suffering from mumps. Take ! j(
off,” I whispered huskily. “I look a perfect freak.
The young woman sadly unwound the veil, got a
mouthful of pins from a sympathetic shopwalker,
and waded in again. This time she put ” e r soul
into it. About a hundred pins were stabbed into my
wretched tile, the veil was dragged like a gag across my
ruby mouth, and several vards of it flapped undermy chin.
“Now,” I said as I glared in the mirror, “I look like a
goat, with all that stuff under my chin. Take it oft,
please.” It was tweaked off, but the exhausted lady just
assumed that I had bought it. It was made into a neat
parcel, and I was handed a half penny change with great
scorn, while the box of veiling was hurled on to the shelf.
And I proceeded to a friendly oyster shop and bought
some oysters from Demetrius Steakopolis, and then
my 7 faithful pal screened me from the public gaze and
pinned on my misty veil, while the nice, oily Greek gen-
tleman moved the grotto of shrimps in bottles and
grinned and said “ ver nice.” They ought to have veil
counters in oyster shops with Demetrius Prawnopoulis to
sell the goods. He is much more agreeable than the
exhausted lady.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Weird beings are made J’s.P. in Maori-
land. Three on the East Coast should get a
medal, or be made earls or something. Not long
ago a young man burgled a store and carried off
about £lO, with which he had a glorious and
gorgeous spree, spending all the cash in the three
local pubs. The wiseacres on the Bench, when
the culprit ultimately came before them, found
him guilty, but inflicted no sentence because he
had spent the money in the town.
Not even the choicest “creation” dis-
played on Flemington lawn attracted more atten-
tion than a plain canvas petticoat displayed to
the view of Melbourne City Court one day last
week. It was a trifle weighty for the present
weather, and it wasn’t exactly worn for dis-
play, but its why and wherefore were ex-
plained by a dozen long strips of dungaree sewn
adown it and constituting pockets. From certain
symptoms a Customs officer diagnosed opium, and
the diagnosis subsequently panned out 54 tins of
the drug, worth £270. The wearer was a damsel
named May Silver, who had left her native Mait-
land to toil in a Sydney laundry, and had allegedly
been enticed into the business of smuggling opium
into Melbourne by certain mysterious Ah Sins.
That, at least, was the damsel’s narrative ; but as
she professed her inability to give the name of
the consignor or the consignee or of the party to
whom she looked for her “ honorarium,” the tale
was received with a certain amount of sniff. Any-
how, the Law coldly remarked that Miss Silver’s
offence, in view of the remarkable garment, was
obviously wilful, wherefore the fine would be £5O,
the lady to continue in gaol till it was paid. And
as she can’t sell the opium to raise the money, the
drug having been confiscated, Miss Silver seems
fixed up for summer quarters.


/
/
z
X
y
fHiT®
mam
S
■f* : 'yf -jr
iHM
11l
2$
eoß^
■\.T'
WW.jf
s»}
1
a-i.
iss
??
sk
««
w*
e-s
I’H
is
as
& «
■iZ
Zf
\ *
. .J.t^
5-
C-O-B-R-A Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo I
Of Akim Foo,
With his Cobras
Driving thro’.
Wrings admiring
Shrieks from all :
“ Here he comes
From Old Bengal!”
Chunder Loo !
For Black and Tan
Very polished
Sort of Man »
All the other
Sorts he loses !
Cobra is THE
Stuff for Shoeses 1


ALWAYS ORDER
WHisKy and
Schweppe
(See Red Seal on Every Bottle.)
HOS
f Gives long service, does not kink
or burst, and lasts for years.
Specify “DUNLOP” Brands, and
you will get the Best Hose at a
reasonable price.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADINC STOREKEEPERS
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide, Perth. BrUbao?
and Christchurch, N.Z
V..--"
I
t\
fimM
Outwear
All
Others.
m
Only Accept n
Dunlop
Brand^<^?^
m:
'P
ur
There’s nothing like
our soft Para
Heels for Comfort, Wear
and Finish. They absorb all
jarring, and outwear several
pairs of leather heels.
, Ob
n
RUBBER HEELS
OUNLOPRUBBER
urn*, dytfn**
Maioov
y Adelaide. Pert*.
©Pnatdhwra*.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 15, 1909.
Mt Dear Yarrie.—
A collection of haggard women stood on the
terrace of Government House—grey-tired, with
lines on their foreheads and round their mouths,
and an utterly futile feeling showing grimly in
the gaze of tired eyes. These were the carefully
selected Society guests invited by the Chamber-
lain for the Dudley Garden Party. (The mighty
fringe of society might be appeased yearly with the
coveted card for a State House garden-spread, but
only thecarefully woven piece issupposed to wander
on the chief vice-regal lawns.) It was the Tues-
day after race week—the birthday of one Edward
—and all these women had worked at entertaining
and being entertained, each battling to appear to
spend more money than the other in variants of
the stereotyped crush, and each toiling harder than
any slavey grafts in rushing to as many points as
possible in a given time. It is like an uncanny game
of baseball. The ravages of the business could not
be concealed even with careful “ make-up.” The
freshest-looking woman at the party was one who
had spent the “gay ” season on a sick bed. She
drove out to this lawn party for her first dissipa-
tion after a serious illness. And, by comparison,
she looked as if she had come back that day from
rusticating among grass and waterfalls; while the
others might have been rescued out of an under-
takery just in time to save them from premature
burial. The most serious point in this special
form of insane giddiness is that the victims are
proud of their dilapidations, and are fully resolved
to dilap. even more next time if such a thing is
possible. “ I’m just a wreck,” each one says, and
the wreckiest wreck is the most elated and the
most approved person in the assemblage. If one
woman had been too tired to stand up, and had
gone round by medical orders on all fours, she
would probably have died of joy.
It was rather a nightmare of a party. The
hostess, Lady Dudley, could not appear—she was
sick a-bed. A wicked heat breathed under a
tarnished metal sky. It was a lawn party, but
not a soul went on the lawn—except the band.
The crowd rushed the hot feeding-rooms,
or breathed heavily on the terrace near the
fountain. Nevertheless, the hand played with
unabated vigor. It wanted to earn its
money. “So like a band,” as a Gilbert
and Sullivan person remarks somewhere
and somewhen. “Blur-r-r—pom, pom” it played
in the desolate distant depths of the garden, and
“ Pr-r-um—tum-tum,” though there was not a soul
to listen. Then for variation it said “Pom-pom.
bombo”—crashing and blaring, eating up money
all the time, as the unhappy chamberlain must
have thought when he caught the echo of its
far strains as he undulated through the gasping
terrace crowd. Yes, the band blew. It would
come for its money at the end of the hideous
day. “So like a band ! ”
The Carmichaels arrived, but soon disappeared
into the cool depths of the house—probably the
Carmichael lady went and sat on the side of the
Countess’ bed and remarked on the hotness of
every thing outside, and Gov. Carmichael wandered
off with Gov. Dudley to his ; den for a peaceful
smoke. They re-appeared, to drive away at cor-
rect five o’clock. The Carmichael Governoress
must almost envy this ill-health of the Countess.
She has been quite well, consequently she has not
had a “ day off ” for a month or more ; but then
Governor folk don’t often “give notice” when
deprived of their “day off.” So probably this
matter gets overlooked.
Even the Dudley footmen—built, as a rule,
on a steel-rod design—sagged untidily with a
“ missus-away ” expression—which expression is
quite different from the “not-at-’ome” demeanor.
The herded, feeding crowd might have been a
tenants’ ffiteindulged in by a Bull-land squire, only
that beautiful frocks stood out of the picture here
and there, their daintiness untired by even a race
week.
The dead weight of some of a Governor’s jobs
was seen on Hobson’s Bay last Saturday, when
Excellency Dudley opened the Melbourne yacht-
ing season. The G.-G. was honorary commodore
of the fleet that turned out to greet him, and,
during the afternoon had to suffer three hearty
British che-ahs from every craft that hung about.
As he loitered down the rows of vessels in line
abreast in his flagship, the schooner Bona, the
burly seamen in each boat waved their paws, and
remarked : “ Hip, Hip, Hoo-way, Hpo-way, Hoo-
way ! ” And Commodore Dudley had to respond
uproariously to each salutation by waving himself
likewise, and also mentioning : “ Hip, Hip, Hoo-
way, Hoo-way, Hoo-way !! ”
I feel much encouraged in my angelic work of
giving first aid to aides. Already it has had a
marked effect on the high, hot, shiny chimney-
pot hat. At Elemington on Saturday, for the
steeplechase, every aide—and there were buckets
of them—wore either a no-rim bowler or a
skimpy straw. As they filed up the stand
steps to the box in the rear of their
various soft-hatted Governors, I nearly rose
and said “Hurrah!” but remembered my
native modesty in time; so I subsided with a
beatific beam of benevolence and the pious,
haloed feeling that my prayers had been
answered. Not a varnished hat in the whole
boiling—but the eyeglasses were there.
Touching the sectarian difficulty which resulted
in medico Neil Crowther foregathering with his
bride at a Scotohbyterian altar, somebody tells
me that the bridegroom’s clan were at loggerheads
with Holy Church some years ago. Crowther
paterfamilias was business manager for Dr.
Backhouse, of Bendigo, a very wealthy dignitary
of the R.O. Church. Dr. Backhouse left his pro-
perty to the Church, and his financial agent left Ms
money to his family. But subsequently the Church
discovered that agent Crowther had been deduct-
ing commission, or something, on certain dealings
with the Backhouse property. The Church sued
the Crowther estate for a return of this disputable
commission and won the case. The verdict meant
a loss of about £3OOO and costs to the family, since
when Dr. Neil Crowther has not been an ardent
churchman. Therefore when Dr. O’Haran refused
to let him unite himself in R.C. bonds with a
Protestant girl, the jaunty medico had no par-
ticular scruples about lining up at her particular
altar. In forbidding these mixed marriages the
Church runs the risk of having to sacrifice one of
its dearest principles, seemingly. A divorced
Catholic who was married in the Church cannot
easily re-marry. In this case, the bridegroom was
not married at all. savs the law of his ecclesiastical
denomination. So he is entitled to be decreed
nisi without losing his right to an unmixed union
in St. Pat. ’s Cathedral.
The wedding of the week was the Carmen-
Pinschof-De Beere-Harris event, which was
conducted with all the ceremony of a duke-
cum-princess combination. Special pasteboards
were issued for admission to the cathedral to pre-
vent the public from falling over itself in a wild
rush and queering the show with a panic.
Miss Carmen is the daughter of the con-
sular von Pinschofs, and bridegroom Harris is
a nephew of the great and only Burgovne.
Edwards, a reverend gentleman from winey
Rutherglen, came down to help a cathedral
canon and other guns to fix the ring. From the
cathedral the bridal party, in taxis, was fol-
lowed by 500 guests to Studlev Hall, in Studley
Park, and there the crowd drank buckets
of Burgovne champagne to the health of
the new duet. The stars of this perform-
ance are both particularly clever amat-
uer mummers (in fact, their first meeting
was in the cardboard groves of amateur play-
acting, and the clever “Tyranny of Tears”
charity shivoo grew into almost a provincial tour
of subbubs), therefore the posing of the wedding
groups was not without art. The bride, draped
in lace that belonged to her mother and the Old
Land, was flanked by four bridesmaids who
looked like delectable pink-iced cakes. They
wore hats covered with a rose trellis and their
pink necks were cut low (their gown necks,
of course), but as the four were young
and blooming, their skin was quite fitted
to stand inspection in the midday sun.
Two sisters, with cousin Nancy Paff and Nan
O’Hara, were the pink darlings. Best man
McKetrie, with “Jack” Baillieu, Goodall of the
Frank Maddens and Tommy Cochrane, proudly
manned the show as groomsmen. The meal which
followed gave an effective centre-table for the
cake and the bridal party, with the guests four-
square at tables round about. This was in the
music-room, where Papa Pinschof has some
beautiful pictures. Mrs. Melba gave the bride
a beautiful gold-and-sapphire-and-diamond pen-
dant.
Dr. Lionel Hood—one of the progeny of the
genial Judge—has married a maiden belonging to
a station on your side. Another Melbourne
medico, Ramsay Mailler, just back from studies
“abrawd,” proclaims his matrimonial intentions
towards Miss Mere, of Kew, a subbub here-
about.
Where is the Guy of yesterday ? The wind of
whim has blown his fat adoring glances toward
one of the Staughton clan.
Motor Harley Tarrant, an officer of the Aus-
tralian Volunteer Automobile Corps, has been
boosted to the rank of Major. Majah Tarrant’s
military career dates back to the early days of the
Victorian Mounted Rifles, in which he held
a lieutenancy. From that force he transferred to
the Army Service Corps, thence to the Field
Artillery and a captaincy. Tarrant was made
commanding officer of the new Automobile Corps,
and since, by examination, has acquired his
appointment as major, and is riding for the long-
service medal.
The young and pretty wife of Senator “ Curly ”
Keating has been doing more than sit under the
apple trees in Tassy with her two bairns. She has
been writing a book, and translating some German
and French stories. Mrs. Keating, by the way,
is an accomplished musician as well as a writer.
The Hennessey who is an alderman, and not a
brandyman, has had a sad ending to his pleasure
jaunt. Earlier in the year Mr. Hennessey, with
his wife and daughter Vera (to whom the wife
stood in step-motherly relationship) was reported
as having a gay time in England. Now comes
the news that Vera died at Chelmsford last week,
from the effects of a chill caught whilst travelling.
She came of age shortly before her death, and on
her 21st birthday she inherited a large fortune
from her grandfather’s estate, which was the
subject of the “Welsh Will Case” some years ago.
After a brief respite from art shows the Guild
Hall opens on the 27th for an exhibition of Violet
Teague’s work. Dr. Teague’s chick is one of
those rather rare art birds, a woman who gets
as far away as she can from the public limelight;
but on the occasions when she exhibited with the
Victorian artists her work always stood out for its
finish and virility. Most of Miss Teague’s exhi-
bitions will be portraits, some of them of notabili-
ties ; and that of old Robert Reid was favorably
commented on by powerful art critics what time
it appeared in London and Paris.
A prominent feature walking on the surface of
race-time revels was the little Hibernian, Dr.
Harbinson, with very new white spats and a very
new bride, mostly dressed in purple. Purple is
not a bride’s color; it isn’t even the color for a
second bride, as she could scarcely lie in mourning
for the first bride—at least not so soon.
A brisk visitor from your side at race time was
Miss May Summerbelle, an ink-slinger and a
clever musician. She was in piano demand from
all quarters of the packed mail-boat which brought
Melbourne back after its spell of Randwicking,
and she rushed about here like a small drop of
mobile mercury.
Miss Gwen Jones, of Ballarat—whose Papa
Jones is Rowlands, of sodawater fame, in business
hours—has promised her charming self and her
aerated dot to Mr. Biscuit Palmer, junior, the
Fogland millionaire. Sodawater and biscuits
should be an excellent alliance. It sounds so
sensible and worldly-wise that one would take the
marriage to be one of convenience, but it is a real
love match. Miss Gwen is a patriot as well as a
pretty citizen. The Women's Work Association in
Melbourne Block is weaving and embroidering
the trousseau pretties in snowy piles, even though
the wearer goes travelling before her wedding,
and will be wandering through the seductive
shops of Paris previous to her marriage in England.
The Women’s Work Association is the place of
good deeds that Mrs. Fred Payne helped with her
half-guinea-entrance-fee theatrical show on Derby
night. It encourages the remuneration of artistic
needlework and plays the business part for poor,
unbusiness-like ladies who have clever, dainty
fingers, but a shy reluctance to push their
wares. All sorts of home-made things can
be ordered through this excellent institution.
Two old ladies of my acquaintance make splendid
preserves—preserves with every piece of fruit
carefully selected and delicately dusted, and
cooked after a recipe handed down from mother
and grandmother. These two ladies have steady
orders such as they would not ask for themselves,
and their work is absorbing and lucrative. Every
kind of needlework is undertaken hy clients. At
mv last visit to the place I saw a baby’s travelling
outfit just going off to its princess-like owner, with
all the fascinating necessaries and comforts fixed
firmly to the sides of a big basket of the laundry
type, and trays of baby garments fresh from the
clever hands of a fastidious woman.
Other cats are tearing to small shreds the morsel
of fact that the Fred Paynes have had the two
sets of local Governor and a visiting third at their
house like ordinary guests. The mieow-ing is to
determine just what glory the lady is to get out
of it. Toorak is breaking its heart over the
departure from the cut-and-dried rules of vice-
regal doings. Especially as the other cat got the
cream.
Periodically a mild request is made for the in-
spection of so-called private hospitals, though the
desired inspection is always from the patient’s
point of view. Yet the nurse is liable to even
worse treatment than the patient. The trouble is
that nurses shudder at the suggestion of a union,
and prate considerably about the gentility of their
profession, what time they slave for less than
living wages and under conditions that the
Trades Hall woman would justly scorn. In one
of the biggest private hospitals around Mel-
bourne, in which no room is less than
£4 4s. a week, the circumstances of the nursing
staff are simply scandalous. The salaries are
less than one pays a good cook, the hours are
longer than those of the average waitress, the
work is trying to the nerves and necessarily dis-
tressing to the system ; and on top of these con-
siderations, their quarters are in a shed attached
to the house. During a heavy rainstorm last
week one of the nurses had sought her apology for
a room, and was awakened from her sleep by rajn
pattering heavily on her face. Too tired to move,
she simply opened an umbrella, propped it up
over her head, and slept again.
Friday is fast becoming the theatrical night
of the Very Best People. A Saturday holi-
day is “such a crush of the herd , don’t you
know !” Last Friday the house was full of tired
Giddy Ones, worn out by the rush of race time.
Suppers followed a Friday “Zaza” frivol. The
two Atherton girls, who are appearing Hgain on
the social horizon, looked wrecked (the fashion-
able feeling of the moment), but with their beauty
still left.
Miss Evelyn Scotney, a native-grown soprano
of some talent, has been encouraged by Melba,
who promises to personally place her under the
eye of Marchesi if she should return to Europe
with her. Miss Scotney is naturally anxious to
seize the opportunity, and friends—including the
Carmichael Governor folk—are getting up a con-
cert for her benefit in December.
Mrs. Melba has a place in the coolth of Mace-
don. The lady occasionally appears in Melbourne,
clad in a square brown motor coat and a mountain
atmosphere and other things.
A friend is complaining about the class of pic-
torial wares available in Melbourne for Christmas
greetings. Being anxious to send an artistic word
to America, he hunted the shops and found
them crammed with drawings by American
artists, but the only Australian picturing was
of the cheapest and shoddiest reproduction.
The same want crops up in a hunt for
wall paper, frieze and other decoration. There
are peacocks and roses and oaks and elms,
and every other kind of foreign vegetation and
animal; but in Australia there arc no Australian
designs (to be got at the principal paperhangers’
places, anyhow) in “stock” goods. Of course,
everything is open to order, but a specially exe-
cuted order is an expense far beyond the means
of people who are not wallowing in wealth. Aus-
tralian foliage is so very decorative. The ti-tree
is wonderfully weird and artistic in every twist.
The decorative Blamire Young has done won-
derful things with gum leaves; but this is always
for the individual decoration of wealthy people’s
houses, and it is not to be bought by the yard or
the roll in beautiful papers.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
The annual Art Show was opened by Chief Justice Way
at the beginning of last week, and the sorrowful fact was
disclosed that only four canvases had been purchased for
the Gallery from among the 209 exhibited. Two of these
are the work of Algernon Talmage, and the other two
lots of shekels go to South Australians, so neither N.S.W.
nor Victoria gets a look-in. The two purchases un-
specified above are Rose Macpherson’s clever still-life
study of a tea-urn and other drinking implements, and
“Ceres. Burn, Fife,” by Gustave Barnes, an S.A. artist
now in Smokeville. There is nothing very exciting
in the exhibition. Hans Heysen’s five canvases
are as charming as usual, and in his “Sunset Haze”
he has some exquisite sun effects; but we seem to
have seen it' all before. Will Ashton’s are all above
reproach, and his “After Rain” has caught the deep
green tone of the rain-washed world. Bessie Davidson
has a good “ Peasant Woman in Church,” as well as a
portrait of Nora Kyffin Thomas, which doesn’t quite do
either clever artist or pretty model justice. Rose Mac-
pherson’s “His Garden” has fine atmosphere, and her
flower and still-life studies are excellent, as
less than 23 Sydney people sent along their little master- '*
pieces to cheer us up, and the Gallery wouldn’t have
done itself any irreparable damage if it had bought a few
of them. Lionel Lindsay exhibits no less than nine, and
Hanson, Howard Ashton, Sid Long, Florence Rodway and
Douglas Fry all have good work on view. Julian Ashton
shows his head-study of “ Hop ” and several other goodly
things ; and Alice Muskett has a striking little picture of
a red-headed maiden in a purple dress. Julian Ashton’s
rough seas and culm seas are numerous, and the Hambidge
girls have some dainty water-color work and a picture,
“Fireside Reflections,” that isn’t nearly as interesting.
As usual, the landscape and seascape are a drug in the
exhibition. Much of the nobility drifted into the open-
ing ceremony, but didn’t spend enough of its pin-money
to make the artist-crowd excited.
Adelaide said “ So long! ” to the “ American Boys ” at
the Kxhibition in a medley of speeches, music arid gym-
nastics ; and we handed out some of our own boy talent
in each division, just to keep Uncle’s boys from getting
too much head-swelling. The American boy-baritone
sang a solo, and a South Australian boy-soprano imme-
diately proved that we had a thing or two in that line as
well. The speeches were contributed by various authori-
tative personages, and the audience was half a throng of
guests invited by the American Consul and Mrs. Prosser,
and half a solid phalanx of boy, chiefly scout. Glenelg
took the boys to its heart and home the Saturday before
their departure, and sailed them over the gulf, and
bathed them in the brine, and lunched them in the town
hall and tea-d them at the kiosk. In the evening the
boys returned the compliment, and gave a concert for
local charity.
Mr. Cruickshank and Mr. Holden, who are portions of
the Tramways Trust, the other day took five or six car-
loads of guests to see the new official quarters on Hackney-
road. It is a not-quite-finished but still a most delectable
palace, with lofty corridors and pillared balconies and
lead lights that do not scream at you ; and the staff
ought to feel very comfortable when the pile carpets a’nd
inlaid cabinets and a grand piano or two are put in. The
guests were also conveyed through the mansions where the
cars live when they happen to be at home; and a special fire-
call, resulting in a heavy shower from*the ceiling and
the hurried collapse of the supposed conflagration,
proved an entertaining item. Another mansion was
devoted to afternoon tea, with musical trimmings pro-
vided by the Tramways Band. Then the cars whisked
the guests to the power house, whose secret inner work-
ings were explained by Mr. Goodman and others. Many
interesting facts were divulged. For instance, if the
Unley car punches the Parkside car’s head for being late
at a crossing, an electric demon rings a bell at the acci-
dent station, and an ambulance waggon is off to the fray
in a moment. I might mention again, in case you’ve for-
gotten it, that we have the most up-to-date tram system
in the world.'
Mrs. Ennis, of the University and the Animals’ Protec-
tion Societv, went to have a look at England by the Mol-
davia Thu ’ rsday . 0 n Tuesdav at luncheon she thought
wouW , jke to J run acrogs t 0 Lond on, and in 4$ hours
she wag Qn tbe way And yet j> ve heard it said that
people fall into slow habits in Adelaide. In March she
will be back to see that the tram-horses aren’t worked
with sore shoulders or mumps. Yes, we still retain a lew
tram-horses, in spite of our new electrified splendor.
Unley’s M kyor knd Mayoress, Mr. and Mrs. Lew.s asked
bbat bi j of the earc h to a garden party on Novem-
ber 9, but Jup. Pluvius had other designs for that da.te.
He emptied all his water barrels and had a little spring
cleaning, so the Lewises wisely packed their guests into
'-X in
chiffons and | ans - ua ge. A band played on the roof gar-
den, and the afternoon teapot sang in the banqueting-
room. The Excellencies were there—the lady i n ar |
oyster and pale-blue summery muslin and plumed toque ;
one daughter coat-skirted in pink, with orchids astride
ndifinery ; the other prune-clad. The hostess, in
heliotrope and white silk, had three daughters to aid and
a bet her—two simple muslin-and-embroidery maids, the
third in pink-flowered chiffon. The last-named and
eldest, Gertrude, will hand her liberty over to Mr. James
Anderson in a few weeks. Both recite considerably, and
™ A ']"c"MorLon C has "orice more resolved that the Lyric
Club must get, another hon. sec. ; so any valiant soul who
wishes to take on the gentle job of pleasing 300 people,
mostly women, had better get ready to rush in where
angels fear to tread. Mr. Morison tried to escape a year
ago. hut thwarted by th£ tears of the committee
people, who painted him a harrowing picture or one
£ oni ' bs ’ one the \, would bave to go out and order if he de-
S ert,ed them. His place won’t be easy to fill, for besides
having consider ihie secretarial knowledge he’s a pleasant
youth, with a frank and friendly eye, even though re al
hf® he is a mayor’s secretary, and has already subdued
four or five of the species.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


Handled Sweet or Butter Dish, Cut
* Glass, 2s. 6d.
Salad Plates. In White, 7s. fid. per do-/.
Gold Edge, 125.; “Austral” pattern,
18s. 6d.; Red, Blue and Gilt, 21s.
Pickle Jar, Cut Glass, as illustrated,
2s. fid. ; Other patterns, 3s. 6d., ss. (id.,
7s. (id., 10s. (id. each; Plain Glass,
|ls. 9d., 2s. each.
Jam Jar, 3s.
pMI
Moulded Gla’ss fishes. Round, 3in., 3d.;
4in., 4d.; sin., fid.; 6in.. 9d.; Bin., Is.;
9in., Is. fid.; llih., 2s. fid. Oval, Bin.,
9d.; 9in., Is.; 10in., Is. fid.
GLITTERING
GLASSWARE
You are interested in everything that makes for
COMFORT and CONVENIENCE during the warm
weather.
We are fully prepared to cater for your every
requirement in CHINA and GLASSWARE—usefuI
and ORNAMENTAL —from the inexpensive plain
styles to the handsomest and costliest designs.
Ice Pails, for Table Use, English Crystal, Bs. (id.; Frosted Glass, 3s. 9d., ss.
Tomato Sauce Bottles, wide neck, 9d., 25., 2s. (id., 3s. Od. each.
Filters, for Cool, Pure Water—
“ Abbott,” 1-gal., 20s. ; 2-gal., 305.; 4-gal., 40s. ; 6-gal., 555.
“Pasteur,” 2-gal., 505.; 3-gal., 635. ; 4-gal., 84s.
High pressure, direct connection with water pipe, “ Abbott ” system, 20s.
“ Pasteur, ” 345. 6d.
OUR FRIENDS OUT OF TOWN may order by Post, with the
assurance that their instructions will be rigidly adhered to by our Country
Order Staff. Goods carefully selected, faithfully packed,,and promptly
despatched.
Best Cut=Glass Tumblers,
12s. 6d. doz.
(is. doz.
Others from 4s. 6d. to 21s. per doz.
12s. (id. doss.
Handled Sweet or Better Dish, Plain
Glass, Is. Od. ~,.r
mmml
vm
Jam or Honey, Cut Glass, as illustrated,
7s. 6d. ; Other patterns, 2s. Gd.. 3s. Gd.,
4s. 6d.; in Plain Glass, Is. 9d. and
2s. each.
Carafe and Tumbler, Plain, Wide Neck,
Is. 9d.; Cut Glass, 4s. Gd each. 1
Glass Jugs, for Claret Cup, Lemonade,
etc., Plain, 3-pint, Gs.; 2-pint, 4s. Gd.;
3s.; 1-pint, 25.; |-pint, Is. Cut
Glass, Various patterns. 4s. 6d., ss. Gd.,
7s. Gd., Bs. Gd., 10s. Gd., 15s. each.
W»VVWWM-'.V» )
JPTTW
' W
M«St
‘^<U(tv/// M^WMWAvU ,v I .
mfvig%ftg\s%:
g^^^VVVWiWW^/^..
lVl>w *VVW«wv*l
», . ,wi^.4SS^
V.AV/V.M
'"••toMAWJJ
VvVl, vwwv
toy
The
Grecian ” Key Service—Best Crystal Glass.
Custards
Jellies ...
Fiuser Bowls ..
Rubj' Hocks
Green Hooks ..
Claret Decanters
Quart Decanters
Pint Decanters...
s. d.
... doz. 18 G
.. doz. 15 0
.. doz. 22 6
.. doz. 24 0
.. doz. 15 0
.. ea. 10 6
.. ea. 8 6
.. ea. 4 6
The Victoria Service.
Sherry Glasses ...
Port Glasses
Claret Glasses ...
Liqueurs.
Champagne, Tall or Saucer
Glasses
Tumblers, \ pint
Tumblers, 1-oth quart
Tumblers, l-Bth quart
Soda Tumblers
doz. 8 fi
doz. 8 G
doz. 10 0
doz. 8 0
doz. 11 r>
doz. 10 0
doz. 8 6
doz. 7 6
doz. 12 0
Custards..
Jellies
Finger Bowls ...
Ruby Hocks
Green Hocks
Claret Decanters
Quart Decanters
Pint Decanters...
Water Carafes and Glass
s. d.
doz. 15 0
doz. 10 0
doz. 18 0
doz. 17' 6
doz. 10 0
ea. 8 6
ea. 7 6
ea. 6 fi
ea. 3 9
'
Melbourne’s Leading
Department Store,
Where everything is the
best by actual test.
Opposite Flinders Street


When you belch after eating take Cham-
berlain’s Tablets ; they cure indigestion.*
Walter Bradley & Co
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Well-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
artistic designs.
Choice Boom Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
Luxurious Upholstered Goods.
Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
With folks on the outer Barcoo,
Who live upon beef and burgoo,
The scurvy’d be chronic
Were not Laxo-Tonic
A part of the regimen, too !
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, 1 Old. and Is. 6d. :
PICTURES
Spanish Beauties,
Aragonese Groups,
Photos, from Life,
State wishes clearly, Bull Fights, etc.
and full satisfaction {ruaranteed.
Send Money Order on London, England.
Libreria Nueva, 25 Rbla Centre, Barcelona, Spain.
SCIENCE SPEAKS.
In the treatment of any wound or sore, you
must not disregard the facts revealed *bv
scientific investigation. To heal speedily and
permanently it is essential to cleanse the affected
tissues and remove any poisonous element that
may be present. The part must then be so
soothed and vitalised that Nature can restore it
at once.
To accomplish this result, an ointment must be
used which, in its action while allaying all
irritation, penetrates to the underlying tissues
and purifies thoroughly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is recognised as
the most unfailing preparation for the treatment
of cuts, wounds, bruises, etc., and skin
diseases in cases of long standing.
This famous Ointment is now manufactured in
Australia, and will b“ sent post paid to an\'
address upon receipt of price—3/6.
Please note— Chase’s Universal Ointment is
always supplied in glass jars to avoid contact
with metal.
Forward Orders to THE RIDGWAY SOCIETY,
BOX 1700, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
When you feel irritable take Chamberlain’s
Tablets ; they act on the liver and steady the
nerves.*
BLOODLESS FOR
EIGHTEEN MONTHS.
♦
Weaker and More Hi all the
1 ime,
0
Cured by Tonic Treatment after
Doctors and Ordinary Methods
Failed.
There is really nothing for bloodless, run-down
people but treatment aiming to increase the blood
supply. One thing for the indigestion that
anaemia caitses, another for the breathlessness and
heart palpitation, and something else to keep off
the fainting fits, is not curing the prime cause of
all the trouble—too little blood. A Sydney woman
who went to doctors and tried many different
things, going from bad to worse for 18 months,
was finally cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People. Now the secret of her cure is that
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills increase the blood
supply, and that’s what she needed. Below is
her own account of the matter
“I have a good constitution, but three years
ago I got run down,” said Mrs. Wm. Carroway,
23 Belmore Street, Rozelle, Sydney. “I began
to lose my appetite; some days I could eat and
other times I couldn't touch a thing. After
eating I’d get a severe pain in my chest, just at
the breast bone, and this Would go right through
to the shoulder blades. I lost all my strength. I
only wanted to lie down. My color went, and I
was quite pale. My heart gave me much alarm.
All the time it would flutter, flutter, flutter, then
without any warning it would race and thump.
If I climbed a hill or took a short walk, I’d have
to stop and rest, and I dare not hurry. I slept
very restlessly, and would often wake up with a
bad turn. In the day I was subject to fainting
turns; sometimes I’d fall down flat, not absolutely
unconscious, but dizzy and dazed, as if everything
were swinging round me. I went to the doctor,
and he gave me tonics, but I got no better. I was ill
like this for about 18 months when I read of a
case similar to mine being cured by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills, so I thought I would try them. When
I was half through the third box I began to feel
brighter. The pain in my chest lessened, and I
began to get regular sleep and to sake up
refreshed. The fifth box found my color coming
back. I was able to go out without fear of those
faint giddy turns, and I could walk without those
palpitations I used to have. When I started the
seventh box I could work about the house and
that dreadful depression was lifted. I felt better
and brisker than 1 had done for many months. I
shall always speak well of this remedy, as it
thoroughly cured me and set me on my feet again.”
When you want Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t
be put off with anything else said to be just as
good. If you have trouble in getting them send
direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia Ltd., Sydney, who will send them by
return, post free 2s. 9d. for one box, six
boxes 15s. 3d.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
U
s:
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
BYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
G. H. REID KNIGHTED.—FINIS.
The imported gun was responsible on
Oct. 30 for the death of a promising Westralian
cadet. His corps was practising at the rifle butts,
arid one gun refused to go off. It was passed
round, and each boy tried to fire it. The suc-
cessful boy died on the spot. The dead cadet was
given a military funeral, and the corps used its
imported gun to fire a salute over the grave. Some
more imported rifles refused to go off, but they
were just allowed to refuse, so there were no more
deaths at the moment. Unfortunately, in real
war operations can’t be suspended while the army
sits in committee round its jammed gun and won-
ders what is the matter.
One of the provisions of Wade’s Police
Offences Act which has had an easy job so far
allows a N.S.W. boss to march down all his true-
blnes, and get them sworn in as special constables.
For a while the bosses apparently didn’t see what
a handy thing it might be to have a few reliable
special constables on the premises; but they are
seeing it now. So the other day the big Broken
Hill Prop. Co. had its watchmen sworn in—just
so that they might be able to arrest anybody who
was stealing an open-cut or a winze or any honor-
able understanding that the chairman might have
left lying about. Under Wade’s Act they can
not only do the arresting on the mine ; they can
also pursue the suspect to any part of the police
district, and the chances are that it will result in
a rare shindy one of these sultry days.
Bamford, who helps to represent Queens-
land in the Australian Parliament, proposes that
it should be made illegal for the press to comment
on the utterances of any candidate between nomi-
nation day and polling day. But why not also pro-
hibit it from commenting on any candidate
between breakfast and dinner? Also, why not
make it illegal for papers to speak between
drinks? Some papers speak a great deal too
much between drinks, which, of course, is the
natural result of drinking between speaks.
As anticipated, Trenvvith’s Bill to amend
the Constitution so that Parliament might have
power to legislate on industrial conditions was
lost in the Senate, the Fusionists voting solidly
against it and an equal number of Laborites ap-
proving. As Trenwith pointed out, the thing
couldn’t go through unless four out of the six States
approved of it; and he implored the House to
give the people the chance of saying whether they
did approve of it or not. But the Fusionists
don’t care about the States. Their business is to
keep sweet with the State Insects. And
naturally the State Insects don’t want this
amendment even if the States do.
Some of the discussion on the Fire
Brigades Bill in N.S.W. Assembly, the other
night:—
Mr. Cans : The Government should not have power to
remove a man without giving good reason.
Mr. IjKVy : What Government would dare to remove a
man without giving such reason?
Mr. Canx : What was Mr. Oliver removed for? Or Mr.
Jveele ?
Chief Secretary Wood : The instances are not apt. In
both those cases the men were simply not re-appointed.
So. after all, it appears that Railway Commis-
sioner Oliver was merely “not re-appointed.”
Well, well ! Most people had the notion that
Oliver was just plain sacked by the orders of the
S. M. Herat,]), and that it took a large and
shameless Act of Parliament to make the sack
legal.
All sorts of things happen in Victoria at
Cup time. For instance, Warrnambool’s muni-
cipal and trade magnates called on Premier
Murray and asked him to apply factory legisla-
tion, particularly Wages Boards’ determinations,
to all parts of shires, as well as to towns and
boroughs. The old claim about employers in the
country needing exemption from democratic legis-
lation was abandoned, and they desired similar
conditions for similar work, no matter where it
was carried on. The Cup day will yet come when
some converted Tory like McKetchup will get up
and move a resolution that a Wages Board be
appointed for the dairy-farming industry, and the
House of Rich Landlords will declare that it
always advocated such a policy, and will pass the
motion with a hurroo.
Extract from the London letter of an
Australian daily:—
Loss of employment and poverty are leading to a
marked increase of chme in England. The Prisons
Commissioners state, in their latestannual report; that if
the pressure on the cell accommodation of the gaols
should not soon be relaxed, the buildings will have to be
enlarged. Serious crimes are not much more numerous
than in past years, but there is a great increase in
vagrancy, begging, larceny and other offences, the char-
acter of which sufficiently indicates their common origin.
Among persons of the poorest class there is a progressive
social and physical deterioration. It is noted that the
great majority of the younger criminals are undersized
and weedy. As a class they are 2£in. below the average
height of the general population of the same age, and
weigh 141 b. less. Last year 26 per cent, pf them were
afflicted with some sort of disease, deformity or disable-
ment. These are the youths who would be benefited by
compulsory military service. Even under prison treat-
ment they greatly improve.
The inestimable blessings of Freetrade, land-
lordism, a voluntary army and the like are always
breaking out in unexpected places.
A few hurried observations in the Souse
of Reps', last week : i
“If the hon. member’s brains were dried in a cook-
sparrow’s bill and blown into a flea’s eye, it would have
no effect.”
“ Why don’t you have some hot milk ? ”
“ Men come in here with bulging stoimchs, but their
day is past.”
“ If Vou want to break up the House in a free fight you
can do so.”
“ Silence, you perfect specimen of human imbecility.”
“ You prehistoric person.”
“He tells me to drink milk. He doesn’t drink milk
that he pays for anyhow.”
“I am better physically, morally, intellectually and
financially than you are.”
“ It’s walking out. Look at it.”
“You are just capable of these blackguardly observa-
tions.”
“ It requires nothing extraordinary to see that vou are
a blackguard.”
Then a faint voice, like the sound of a pint of
water in the distance, said “Ordah.”
That lightning-change artist, Defence
Minister Cook, is reported in Sydney Telegraph
to have orated thus at a recent military shivoo
about the proposed financial arrangement with
the State Premiers
The clear duty to the Commonwealth and to the States
was to leave no stone unturned to put the agreement
through Parliament, and to refer it to the people for their
final decision. (Hear, hear.) That was all that was being
attempted. The Government was not tying the Com-
monwealth or the States to the agreement— the people
would he asked to decide, and when the people have to
decide, who should cavil at them in this great democracy
of Australia ? Our reply to those who cavil is, all the
time, that it is for the people and not for Parliament to
decide.
And yet when anyone proposes submitting the
Federal capital site question to the people, Cook
becomes almost as wild as W. M. Hughes.
HAD HAD A SPILL.
THE BARBER: “ How docs Dili like his new
motor-car?"
THE SPORT: " Dunno yet! Went fer ’is trial spin
yesterday, and the blokes at the ’orspital tells
me 'e ain't come round, yet."
Thus Jocook, Australian Minister of De-
fence, at Richmond (N.S.W.): —
“The Federal obligations”—obligations, observe : obli-
gations, for instance, to preserve Australia from host.il •
invasion—“were increasing year by year, and unless the
present agreement went into the Constitution there
would presently be very little left for the States. It was
our clear duty therefore to put it in the Constitution.”
If those words were Wade’s, one could understand
the speaker’s attitude; hut. in the light of that
declaration of his clear duty to hamper and block
Federal obligations, what is Jocook doing in the
Australian Parliament ?
The S. M. Herald (11/11/’O9), in alarm at
the prospect that the N.S.W. TJppish House will
throw out the Wade Ministry’s Closer Settle-
ment Bill :
The plain fact of the matter is that in a laudable desire
to avoid the other alternative—a graduated land tax—the
Government is pushing closer settlement legislation
further than we have hitherto gone. Some action was
inevitable, for so far our attempts to get the people on
the land have not had any success worth boasting about,
and unless the Council is ready for a graduated land-tax
it will do well not to be.led into an irreconcilable attitude
towards the Bill. . . . The fate of the second reading,
however, is not a matter of very great moment. The
Council can only cause delay, or it may drive Mr. Wade
to adopt the much simpler and more straightforward
method of a graduated land-tax.
So it appears (1) that the graduated land-tax is
“the much simpler and more straightforward
method”; (2) that the Wade Government is full of a
“laudable desire” to avoid the simple and
straightforward method ; (3) that the S. M.
Herald urges the House of Nominees not to
drive Wade to be simple and straightforward—
presumably because it wouldn’t agree with him.
He prefers to be complicated luid triangular.
A DEMAND
FOR CREDIT.
" Please , mother
sez will per
give 'er sixpenny worf o' coal, and she'll pay
per w'en the strike's over."
The Bananaland Ministerial proposal to
utilise Brisbane Government House and grounds
for tlie proposed University looks like the first
step of importance towards the abolition of State
Governors. Four years ago the Morgan Govern-
ment cut the salary down from £5OOO to £3OOO,
but this hint has not borne much fruit. If. the
house is also cut off it is just possible that the im-
ported Excellency will begin to see the point.
Even the most obtuse visitor often notices that
he is unwelcome when his host takes the roof off.
“ A.E.” : A few facts .about Eng-
land’s “old nobility”—that old
which now reckons it has a rig »
account of its ancient lineage, to stan
the way of the people of Great Britain .
To-day none of the dukedoms created from
the institution of Edward 111- down to
menceinent of the reign of Charles 11., exc p
Norfolk, Somerset and Cornwall, are in ‘
Winchester is the only marquisate olde
George 111.
Of all the earldoms conferred by the Normans,
Plantaeenets and Tudors, only five remain.
The House of Lords does not number among
its members a single descendant of the oar -
who were chosen to enforce Magna Cnarta,
even of those who fought at Agincourt. <
Seventy of the present peers were either suc\
cessful lawyers themselves, or they happened to
have a father or a grandfather who succeeded
that business. ...
The Dukes of Leeds trace back to a ciotn-
worker; the Earls of Radnor to a Turkey nier-
chant; the Earls of Craven to a tailor; the
families of Dartmouth, Ducie, Pomfret, Tanker-
ville, Dormer, Romney, Dudley, Fitzwilliain,
Covvper, Leigh, Darnley, Hill and Normanby all
sprang from London shops and counting houses,
and that not so very long ago.
Ashburton, Carrington, Belper, Overstone,
Mount Stephen, Hindlip, Burton, Battersea,
Glenesk, Aldenham, Cheylesmere, 'Lister, Axe-
bury, Burnham, Biddulph, Northcliffe, Nuniburn-
holme, Winterstoke, Rothschild, Brassey, Revel-
stoke, Stratheona and Mount Royal, Michelham,
and others too many to mention, have taken their
places among the peers by force of long purses
gained in trade.
“Wealth, however got, in England makes
Lords of mechanics, gentlemen of rakes ;
Antiquity of birth are needless here—
’Tis impudence and money makes the peer.”
Just when the Chamber of Manufactures
was urging Premier Murray to get to work and
start his State coal mine, the baker’s dozen that
calls itself the Victorian Employers’ Federation
was pledging itself to oppose those clauses in the
Coal Mines Regulation Bill that provide for the
State mine, on the ground that it was a “direct
interference with Private Enterprise.” The Vic.
Employers’ Federation is stupid enough to think
that it finishes the argument when it says that
something “ interferes with Private Enterprise.”
It doesn’t seem able to remember that railways
interfered with the private enterprise of the bul-
lock-driver, vet not even a Victorian Employers’
Federationist proposes to abolish railways and
restore Billjim, his oaths and his whip-lash, in
Collins-street.
A PSALM OF CONCLUSIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Premier Ward has stated that the land question will be
finally settled during the present session.— News item.
Behold, the riddle hath an end, and the conundrum that
was from the beginning is a thing- of naught;
The way of a man is made plain, and the path of a maid
cm be demonstrated by mathematics ;
The secret of cancer is not hidden, and the inhabitants of
Mars are known by name ;
The crooked places have become straight ; and the twisted
politician is unravelled ;
For the land question is settled for ever, and the con-
troversy thereof is defunct.
Let every piece of dirt in the paddock rejoice, for the
mouth of Ward hath spoken it !
How beautiful upon the Treasury benches are the boots
of him that speaketh a sure thing !
Sjosh raged, Labor uttered its voice, Leasehold made a
, loud roaring ;
The landshark was dumb, the mortgagee trembled,
Cohen wept, the innards of the mighty were shaken ;
The dirt of the field had risen up against them, the har-
-1 rows of the husbandman had gone over their soul.
Behold he hath anointed the storm, with the oil of his
i tongue hath he laid the great dust !
The fat of the mighty hath peace ; at the word of Joseph,
i Sosh trembleth and is astonied.
Ljo ! he will make an end. By gosh ! he will bring this
racket to a finish. Selali !
Ajwake! Harp, psaltery, dulcimer, Hogg, trombone,
I Laurenson and the phonograph !
Lfet everything that hath bteath make a Devil of a row !
Ltet the seas roar and all the fish that are therein !
Let every cat that is upon the housetops cry aloud !
Fpr the conclusion of all things is come, the end of all
things draweth nigh,
The day of the millennium has arrived, and the Golden
, Age is billed to appear.
Behold ! the Land Question is dead, and the funeral will
j take place at 2.83 p.m. !
Ward hath spoken it, and we are damned well certain
i that it cometh to pass !
I
Ahab shall keep the vineyard of Naboth, and Naboth
I shall not be despoiled ;
Fkt shall eat all his cake, and afterward it shall be divided
[ among the poor ;
Leasehold shall be established perpetually, and there
j shall be no tetiure but Freehold,
Ahd the optional System shall be in force, and the State
! shall redeem all mortgages.
Tpere shall be no Crown Lands alienated, and everyone
| may buy and hold whatsoever he willeth ;
Tne land-tax shall be abolished, and all the revenue shall
' be drawn from the soil ;
Fpr the time of conclusions is come, and the Land
' Question will be settled for ever !
how the deuce is he going to do it ?)
MAORI LAND.
D. M. W.


AT LAST
A Standard Typewriter at a Reasonable Price.
C*
J
sm
v-
s«
v :
■
\;*
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable
Keyboard.
Unlimited Speed.
Two-Color Ribbon.
Steel Type.
Powerful Manifolder.
Light Touch.
Portable.
W Built for Hard Work.
Warranted for two years.
Weight i alb.
THE BRITON
NEW MODEL NEW OFFER.
This typewriter is too well known to need lengthy description. It is the
ideal writing machine. Simple, never gets out of order, even with the
heaviest work. It will take as many, carbon copies„as you require, and will
cut a perfect stencil. You can pay more money for your typewriter, but
you cannot buy more real honest typewriter value.
We ship this machine, charges prepaid, to any town in Australasia, give
you ten days’ free trial, warrant it for two years. When you have tried
it, remit to us £9 10s., and it is yours. If you want to pay in instalments
we charge 10s. extra.
Write to-day, giving references, and ask us to ship a BRITON to you
for 10 days’ free trial.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
Cor. GEORGE and WYNYARD STREETS, SYDNEY.
17 Queen St., Melbourne; 364 Queen St., Brisbane; 131 King William
St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Hobart ; 17 Grey St., Wellington, N.Z.
EDUCATION
BY POST.
Our successful and up-to-date methods
will help you on the road to SUCCESS.
Stott’s Correspondence Cslfe
Can Train You —ByPost.
Our splendid system is training hundreds to be successful. Why not YOU? Our instruction
papers go right to your home, and cause no inconvenience. The instruction is thorough and
individual, and the cost is trifling when compared with the benefit to be derived from it.
We have hundreds of satisfied students in all parts of Australia.
You can Improve your Position and Increase your Earning Power
by taking a course of our thorough and practical instruction in any of the following subjects—
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
AUDITING
SHORTHAND
TYPE WRITING
ARITHMETIC
ENGLISH
BUSINESS LETTER WRITING
PENMANSHIP
DRAWING
ILLUSTRATING
CARTOONING
LETTERING and DESIGNING
AGRICULTURE
And all BRANCHES OF LIVE
STOCK INDUSTRY.
The instruction goes RIGHT TO YOUR HOME, no matter where you live, and is just
what you require to enable you to EARN MORE MONEY.
EX A MINA TIONS ! EX A MINA TIONS !
Stott’s Correspondence College Gives RESULTS.
The success of our students at all PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS is the best evidence of the
SUPERIORITY of our system of INDIVIDUAL POSTAL INSTRUCTION. We can
coach you successfully for any of the following exams.:
Commonwealth Clerical Division
Commonwealth General Division
State Clerical Division.
State General Division.
Postal Assistants’ Exam.
Telegraphists’ Exam.
Railway Clerical Exam.
Bankers’ Institute Exam.
University Exams.
Municipal Clerks’ Exam.
Police Exams.
Licensed Auditors’ Exam.
Accountants’ Institute Exam.
Pharmacy Exams.
Telephone Attendants’ Exam.
Telegraph Messengers’ Exam., etc.
Intending candidates for any of these exams, should write to us at once for particulars.
It is a mistake to delay this matter. IT COSTS NOTHING TO INQUIRE.
Write TO-DAY for free copy of Prospectus E, which outlines our system, and state exami-
nation or subjects in which you are interested. “ THOROUGHNESS ”is our motto.
STOTT’S Correspondence COLLEGE,
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
70 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
172 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
Brookman’s Chambers, GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A.
M-A9004
vimk
A-900/
-w
na9006
M-A-900Z
m
-A9
M-A-9000
m
i(»?■ t
MA-900.
MA9OQ7
r/AQOOS
i)
90
Dust Coats
at Buckley’s
For fuller particulars see Page 14,
Catalogue S 5.
If you have not received a copy,
write for one at once.
Post.’ Free on application to
BUCKLEYsNUNN
LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, S.E.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
TO OVERCOME INDIGESTION.
In the first place remove the cause, which is
mainly the use of improper food, eating- too fast,
excessive use of alcoholic liquors or tobacco, and
sometimes excessive work or study. Get the
system down to its normal condition, clear out
the bowels, assist digestion by Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and the rest is simply a matter of diet.
“Eighteen months ago I was subject to violent
attacks of indigestion,” writes Mrs. Honor
Clarkson, ITralla, N.S. W. “ I could not bear the
pressure of my clothes on the body, and I would
feel as if I was suffocating. I also suffered from
defective vision and severe headaches. My sister
advised me to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
and pressed me to take three which she gave me;
I took them and noticed a feeling of great relief.
I thereupon purchased a bottle, and with con-
tinued treatment I was quite cured. I always
keep them by me, and my sons generally carry a
bottle in their pockets. Whenever I find any symp-
toms of indigestion returning I take one or two
and they put me right again almost immediately.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are not simply a
purgative which forces the food out of the body,
depriving the stomach of its nourishment, and
thus starving the system ; they contain the
essential properties that are temporarily lacking
in the stomach through weakness, and complete
digestion and assimilation, and so restore the
functions of the digestive organs by obtaining the
maximum of nutriment from the food, which
sustains the body and assures good health.*
/I WML S
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 187
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL.
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALGOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
At the recent Licensed Victuallers’ race-meeting
at Broken Hill, F. H. Elliott rode his own horse Hotspur
(carrying- list. 91b.) to an easy victory in the Ladies’
Bracelet. And Mr. Elliott’s age is 70 ! Record ?
* * • *
Does it not strike the mind of the happy-go-lucky
holiday punter that the starting prices recorded in the
press are mostly longer than the prices that he and his
pals accepted from the bookmakers at almost the last
moment? As a case in'point, take the alleged starting
price of Trafalgar for the Melbourne Cup—viz., 4 to 1.
The Bulletin wonders how many of its up-country
readers accepted 7 to 2, 3 to 1, and’even as little as 5 to
2 about Trafalgar in the betting paddock of the V.R.C.
Grand Stand (not to mention the Hill and the Flat)
a few minutes before the race was run. Trafalgar was the
favorite with the public, and its price was just as short as
any hasty punter was foolish enough to take. So with
all the other starters. Against the horses quoted at 20
and 25 to 1 in the S. P. list the average offer from the
crowd of Ikeys was 16 and 20 to 1, or even less. No indi-
vidual punter, dodging his way through the crowded ring
to get the best available price about every starter,
could possibly back them all at the odds recorded in the
newspapers next morning. Assuming that those recorded
odds are actually obtainable from one or other of the
conflicting layers, no punter would have time to secure
the “ top of the market ” in, say, five and twenty cases
within half an hour of hard labor. The press falsifies the
figures. The maximum starting price of a favorite may
be stated when that favorite wins, but the outside prices
are exaggerated to make Ikey Mo appear a more bold and
attractive speculator than he really is. The 50 to 1
quoted about a horse that gets beaten would have been
40 or even 30 to 1 had he won. So whether the
punter lays out his money with a bookmaker
on the course, or does it at S.P. in town, he
is likely to get a smaller return for his investment than
he might have obtained. The bookmaking market being
a variable thing, any newspaper list of starting prices is
inevitably a lie, more or less, the lie being always shaped
in the interests of the layers. The punters’only chance
of a fair and definite market, which must be fairly stated
in the press, is the totalisator. The tote has no best or
worst price for the backers of any particular horse. It
doesn’t “ make a favorite ” by shouting “ 3 to 1 bar one ”
before a bet has been booked. It never robs Simple
Peter to pay roguish Paul, as the bookmakers do when
they are not despoiling Peterand Paul alike. Nor does it
ever take a penny out of the country, like the Joe
Thompsons, Jack Cohens; etc., who make large fortunes
in Australia and take the boodle to England. In favor of
the legalised tote there are a hundred good arguments. In
favor of the bookmaker not one.
Last Saturday’s meeting at Caulfield was an
afterpiece to the Melbourne Cup comedy drama, in which
several of the successful Flemington performers appeared
again. Vernier showed what a good sort he is when
thoroughly well by winning the hurdle race with
list. 91b. on his back. Roseer. also scored again in
another two-year-old race; but Lady San, who
won two events at Flemington, was not quite
equal to the capture of the Armadale Handicap.
The outsider, Active, beat the fiilly (a 6 to 4 chance) by a
long nose, to the joy of all the long noses in the ring.
Salvia, a sprinter of some “class,” had no trouble in
winning the six furlongs race, and in her case the odds—
9to 2—seemed fairly reasonable. Two first favorites won
at 2 to I and 5 to 2 respectively, so in a horse reporter’s
way of speaking, “backers had the best of it.” But,
seeing that the odds against four beaten favorites in the
other races amounted to only 15 to 8 in the aggregate,
i the layers couldn’t have had much the worst of it
on the day.
* # * *
Rejoice and be glad ! Kick up a cheerful row !
For aeroplanes have fallen in price. Whereas but yester-
day it cost you between £l5OO and £2500 to go a-soaring
in anything like safety, to-morrow you can skim skywards
at the cost of a mere trifle, £3OO. This is the figure at
which the Clement Bayard Co., of France, is now offering
Demoiselle type aeros, fitted with two-cylinder motors.
The Clement Bayard Co. has ever been in the van of
aerial navigation with both dirigibles and ’planes, and
immediately this stupendous reduction of price was
announced it received by post, telegram and otherwise
orders for over 1000 machines. Evidently the birds are in
for a bad time. They will be chased in their own
element, and even when the lammergeir has built a nest
on the most inaccessible shelf of the Alps, man will fly up
and poke a stick into it.
The Demoiselle type of aeroplane, which is now
to be put on the market at £3OO, is one of the Santos
Dumont creations. It is roughly, 20ft. long, with a
spread of 19ft. only, and weighs about 3001 b. It seems
a wee thing in which to go floating round the little stars
and sailing to the moon.
The conquest of the air lias been fairly rapid,
and, contrary to general ideas, the French have been the
most successful. The “German Menace” has brought
the name of Zeppelin so prominently before the English-
speaking races that the man in the street regarded the
German as the pioneer of the aerial conquest. It was
away back in 1852 that Giffard, a Frenchman, devised a
balloon of elongated shape, and fitted it with a steam
engine and a screw of 12ft. diameter. He ascended from
Paris on September 24, 1852, and made several
successful circular flights. In ISB3 two more French-
men, the brothers Tissandier, made over six
miles an hour against the wind by electric
power. Then came the first great triumph, La France,
created by Captains Renard and Krebs. This ship made
quite a number of voyages, and travelled at 14 miles an
hour against a wind which blew at the rate of seven
miles an hour—total, 21 miles an hour. In 1900 Zeppelin
appeared with a fearsome object 420 ft. long, driven by
two Daimler motors of 16 h.p. operating four propellers.
He made 18 miles an hour against a wind of about seven
miles per hour. In 1901 Santos Dumont, the Parisian
Brazilian, broke loose, and produced a new-shaped
dirigible almost every time one met him. He devised the
ballonet, a sort of inner balloon from which the gas was
expelled and replaced with air when he wished to des-
cend, and thus ensured stability, or rather rigidity, of
form. He sailed round the Eiffel Tower and back
to his starting place, and thereby earned aprizeof 100,000
francs. In 1902 another Brazilian named Severo went up
12,000 ft. in a dirigible of his own invention, taking with
him an engineer. The thing exploded at 12,000 ft., and
neither man knew what hit him. In 1903 Stanley Spencer
sailed over London in the first English dirigible. He was
followed the next year by Dr. Barton. In 1905 Jacques
Faure and Hubert Latham “ diriged ” from the Crystal
Palace to Paris.
• * * *
Aeroplanes(flving machines that are heavierthan
air) were not seriously’ taken in hand till 1889, when Maxim
(in England) and Langley (in the U.S.A.) both got going.
Lilienthal, the German, invented a gliding machine,
with which he swooped down from steeples and so forth ;
and in 1896 he died in the pursuit of knowledge. In 1899,
Pilcher, the Englishman, lost his life the same way. In
1908 the Wright Brothers made some successful flights ;
and Farman and Bleriot, the Frenchmen, who had been
experimenting for some years, both ventured aloft. Far-
man and Bleriot were scientists. The brothers Wright
were more empiric than scientific. On October 30, 1908,
Farman made the first aeroplane journey, flying from
Chalons to Rheims, and the next day Bleriot made a
successful flight, in which he returned safely to his start-
ing point. On July 25, 1909, Bleriot flew across the Eng-
lish Channel on his monoplane, and was followed soon
after by Latham. In August, on the plain of Bethany,
near Rheims (France), was held the first aero-
plane meeting, and the world stood still and
wondered. Paulhan, on a biplane, flew 81 miles
without stopping. Latham, on an Antoinette mono-
plane, promptly' beat him, only to be eclipsed by
Farman. Not to be beaten altogether, Latham then
tried for height, and soared over 500 ft into the air, beat-
ing all competitors. The speed trophy was won by
Curtis, a Yankee, who shot through the atmosphere at
the rate of nearly 47 miles per hour. Since then all sorts
of amazing things have been done ; but the secret of suc-
cessful aerial navigation on lines which will supersede the
ocean liner and the railway train is still unsolved.
• « * •
The Taits are importing one of Bleriot’s mono-
planes for comparison with the Wilbur Wright aeroplane.
Several working models of both machines will be on
exhibition presently.
* * * *
The Mclntosh arrived in Sydney last week, and
does not seem to have deteriorated, either mentally or
physically'. He received the
usual moist welcome at Bate-
man’s Hotel, and in reply,
spread himself interestingly’.
His account of the Jeffries-
Johnson agreement is that the
fight is to last 45 rounds, one
to win, and must be held in
the U.S.A. Managers will be
allowed up to December 1 to
bid for the privilege of run-
ning it, and with their appli-
cations must forward a marked
cheque for £lOOO. On the
other hand, both bruisers
graciously intimate that they
will put up a similar deposit.
The Mclntosh, disregarding
the “must be fought in Yankee-
land” clause, promptly bid
£15,000 for the fight to take
place in England, where he has
two large grounds—one open
and one covered. At time of
writing only two bids have
been received, the bidders
being the Mclntosh, of Sydney,
and Jim Coffroth, of San Fran-
cisco. Coffroth won’t offer a
purse, but tenders a percent-
age of the gate—practically
the whole of it, minus the
actual out-of-pocket costs of
advertising, attendants, and so
forth. On the other hand, he
wants all the rights in the pic-
tures, and reckons that he will
stand on velvet. The Mclntosh
has hopes that the prospect
of £15,000 to divide, wet, dry,
or otherwise, will fetch the
fighters* as both of them are
whales for sure money.
* * " *
The Mclntosh had a
great run of luck with his now
famous Benz motor-car, for
which he paid such an enorm-
ous price. Driven by Brown,
it annexed the splendid Dewar
Cup outright, a magnificent
trophy, worth £2OOO ; and put
up 10 world records in 11
starts. Immediately after wards
he sold the car at a hand-
some profit to Barney Oldfield,
who would take no denial, and
so Australia is deprived of the
chance o’f seeing what it is
like. (
The Mclntosh says that the English have the
finest lightweight fighters in the world, but are deficient
in middles and heavies. It is not that England is in-
capable of producing them, but the insane system on
which the English do things kills them while they are
young. No sooripr does a middle- or heavy'weight show
promise than he is matched against the world’s best and
promptly put to sleep, and they have no time for beaten
men. Once down is to be out. That was the case with
lan Hague. He was merely a promising bruiser, arid
straightway he was matched with Langford, the man all
the top fighters of the world—including Johnson himself
—are dodging to-day'. Naturally' the young idea never
gets a chance to develop.
*■* * *
Bob Fitzsimmons, the Freckled Freak, is now
at The Rest, National Park, getting ready' for his battle
with Lang, of Melbourne. Lang has the advantage of
y'outh ; but, all the same, the chances are that he is in
this time for the walloping he so narrowly missed when
last he scrapped with Squires. The winner of this fight
will probably be matched against Tahmmy Burns, under
the management of the Mclntosh.
* * * *
For the severalth time Major Taylor, the some-
time negro champion cyclist of the world, has definitely
retired from the bike track. He threatens to blossom
out into a designer of a new and, of course, improved
aeroplane ; and it is whispered that his partner in the
venture will be Gabriel Paulain, sometime sprint champion
of the globe. Taylor is going to develop his particular
brand of flying machine ’way back in the States, which
seems the proper place for Ham to break out as an
inventor. All the unexpected things happen in the
States. If he does fly, Taylor will certainly be a blot in
the sky.
* * * *
Francis Birtles, the overlanding cyclist, has just
demonstrated the reliability of the Australian-built bike
and Australian-made tyres by riding from Fremantle to
Sydney, via Port Augusta and Broken Hill, on a Dunlop-
shod Universal bike, made by Anthony Hordern and Sons,
of Sydney. Not once, in the 3056 J miles his cyclometer
showed him to have traversed, did he have the slightest
trouble with either machine or tyres. He was 44 day's
22£hrs. on the trip, but as he was not after any record,
he' took it easy and spent much time photographing
scenes along the road. He found the country' very’ dry',
and had one unpleasant experience. Arriving at a
rock-hole he took a drink and filled his waterbag. The
result of that drink was startling, and his symptoms told
Birtles he had been poisoned. All next day he had to
travel without w'ater, and he got none till he reached a
station on the overland telegraph line. It seems that the
wild-dog trappers often poison the water in the
rock-holes and collect the scalps of the victims on
their return. It is a practice that should be
discouraged by hanging. He encountered natives
several times, and they greeted him with enthusiasm.
Rabbits were in millions, and he ate them—the rabbits,
not the millions. Once when he was asleep he had a
feeling of something pricking his wrist, and aw'oke to
find that a dingo hid just commenced to dine off it.
Thanking his stars it wasn’t his face, he arose to argue
the point, but the dingo left hurriedly. His machine,
fitted with water-bag, camera, rifle, beef, flour, etc.,
weighed 2501 b. ; but in spite of that he averaged 67
miles a day', which, considering the nature of the country
through which he passed, was good going.
They are making a fuss in Yankeeland about
the doings of one Lew'is Strang, who has just driven a
motor-car 10 miles in 7min. 2see., and got over the mile
in 37.75ee. Have they' taken to drink, or what? The
times are slow compared to what has been done before.
For instance, B. Brown, in the Mclntosh’s car, flew' over 10
miles in smin. 14 2-ssec., w'hich is at the rate of 115 miles
an hour, on Daytona Beach. F. Newtown also howled
around Brooklands track at 102 miles an hour, as against
Strang’s 85. As for the mile run, it isn’t in the same
street as Marriot’s 28 l-ssec. in the Stanley' steam car,
when the unknow'n driver equalled 127 miles an hour ; or
Newtown’s bound at the rate of 119 miles an hour. Strang’s
37.75ec. represents only a snail-like pace of 95 miles an
hour. This shows how easy it is to sit in a comfortable
office chair and sling remarks at the men who do things.
Writer would no more think of travelling at 80 miles an
hour than he would dream of trying to bustle St. Peter
before it is necessary'; but when one criticises a thing, it
is just as well to do it properly.
•***■*
The Maoriland road scurry. Timaru to Christ-
church, decided October 30, was probably' the most cruel
race that ever happened in the history' of Maoriland bike-
pushing. Right across the whole 112 miles of shelterless
plain the competitors faced a merciless head wind, which
grew more like a gale the further the struggle progressed.
Over 180 riders started, but by judicious pacing they soon
formed into five main groups. Jack Arnst, on scratch,
struck disaster early, having a blow-out in the first 10
miles. He put in a new'tube only to puncture within
another four miles. Hurriedly' repairing the leak, he flung
24 miles behind him in 60min. and got in amongst the back
markers. When the leading bunch reached Ashburton (58
miles) and heard of the desperate things the champion was
doing in the rear, it grabbed its bike, its hot milk and its
banana and fled. In those first 58 miles Arnst accounted
for 28min. of the 55min. he was conceding the limit men.
Then, aided by unselfish pacing, he came with a grand
THE PROMISED LAND.
Hugh Mclntosh arrived in Sydney last week.
The bruisers are coming.
rush, and with 25 miles to pro he was within 7min. of the
leaders. He had the race in hand when tyre troubles
held him up for another lOmin., spoiling- his chances and
enabling P.O’Shea (Christchurch), with 45min., to gather
in the honor and the profits in 7hrs. 7tnim, with L. Maw
(Dunedin) second and G. H. Birch (Fendalton) third.
Jack Arnst crossed the line twelfth. 9min. behind the
winner, and, in spite of losing over 20min. through tyre
troubles, he raked in the M.L. Koad Championship for
1909 by doing fastest time —6hrs. 34min., a great per-
formance considering that head wind.
* X * *
By an oversight on the part of the writer no
mention was made in the account of Sal van a’s great
record ride from Sydney to Melbourne that the time-
beater rode Wallace Continental tyres. So honoris hereby
paid where honor is due.
The anti-gambling crusade in Maoriland has
got Premier Joe between the Devil and the deep sea ;
also in the cleft of the forked stick, and other tight
localities. A deputation burst in on him recently and
howled for : (1) Reduction if not abolition of horse-racing ;
(2) abolition of the Tote; (3) annihilation of the book-
maker ; (4 to 50) suppression of the immorality that hangs
round racecourses, gambling dens, and other places not
mentioned in polite society. When Premier Joe had
pulled himself together he tried to temporise, but the de-
putation would have none of it. It howled louder than
ever, and in the long run Premier Joe climbed over the
partition and shouted that he would recommend Parlia-
ment to submit the whole matter to a referendum. The
politician is taking no chances.
* * * *
Said now that Barry will come to Australia to
row Arnst on the Parramatta. Before, it was Barry who
did the coy business, and overdid it. Now he believes he
can win the championship, and is desperately anxious to
do so; but Arnst, who has several other things in view,
is reciprocating Barry’s diffidence, and requests the
Englishman to wait his turn.
* * * *
Webb, who was twice beaten by Arnst, is con-
ceding little Whelch, of Akaroa, six seconds in a race at
Foxton. Wonder how the handicapper felt when he saw
that Whelch had challenged Arnst to defend his title on
Akaroa Harbor and put up a side wager of £2OO. Arnst
wants to raise the stake to £5OO, but does not fancy the
open water of Akaroa’s lovely bay, and stipulates for “a
decent course.”
* * * *
Maoriland Marathon race last week raised con-
siderable dust in the shape of a new world record, 2hr.
50min. 23sec. for the 26 miles 385yds. H. Thompson, of
Wellington, was the man who did the deed. Just at
present there is no official assurance that the road has
been properly measured, and till it is forthcoming the
record will not be recognised.
The inter-State bowling struggle for the Wood-
Macleod shield, at Melbourne last week, resulted J".
disappearance of N.S.W. altogether. Vic. won th
matches by 121 to 87, 100 to 79, and 121 to 83 34- p
to 219. In the 12 rinks N.S.W. could win but three ana
tie in one. Another injustice to the Ma State.
■*•*”*■*
N.S.W. Swimming League took the water last
week in a style that made the amateur body gasp, r roni
the roll-up it is evident that there is unlimited material
outside the amateur body simply bursting to do things,
and among it is so celebrated a swimmer as Richara
Civill, and, of course, George Read, one-time pro-
fessional champion of Australia. It is announced that no
quarter will be given, and, as in the scrap between
Jeffries and Johnson, one is to win.
* * * *
As a preliminary canter to the Davis Cup con-
tests last week, the Victorian championship tennis tourney
was full of interest, and the finals on Saturday drew a
1500 “ house,” worth well up to £lOO. First Brookes and
Wilding held their Doubles Championship against H. Rice
and A. Campbell with obvious ease in three straight sets :
6-2, 6-1, 6-4. Then little Miss Gyton, of the cheerful
squeak, strove valiantly to regain her lost Ladies Singles
Championship from the taller and more sedate Miss
Addison, but failed badly, the first two sets
going to the latter lady: 6-4, 6-2. The small
damsel also partnered one of the Davis Cup selec-
tions (A. W. Dunlop) in the Mixed Doubles ; but
the two were badlv heaten by Miss Stewart and A. Camp-
bell : 6—o, 7—5. The preliminary rounds of the Mens
Singles had but served to emphasise the superiority of
Brooks and Wilding over all competitors—R. W. Heath,
A. Campbell, A. W. Dunlop, H. Rice and others being
outed one after another. Brookes had beaten Rice the
day' before by 6—3, 6—2, 6—l, so the collision of the pair
was a memorable circumstance. Brookes, cool and
apparently l careless, won the first two sets handily, and
looked a moral for the championship ; but apparently he
has neglected his training somewhat, for he tired palpa-
bly. Trying for his deadly serve or working up for the
effective smash he repeatedly struck too low. Wilding
gave no double fault; Brookes gave several. Brookes
seemed to be playing his man, to anticipate his
expected movements and work to defeat them ; Wilding
was steadier and surer and more certain to utilise the
slightest loose play'. Anyhow', Brookes wore out, and the
third and fourth sets w'ent to Wilding. Then, game for
game, they worked up to “seven all,” “deuce” being
called a dozen times. Brookes was wolfing iced-water
wholesale. Wilding perspired, but took nothing, and his
training stood to him, for the next game he collared
easily', and though Brookes strove determinedly' for the
ensuing one. Wilding’s placing was too good, and he won
the set and the match at 9—7. Wilding has improved
since last year, and is nearly Brookes’ equal—nearly, but
not quite. A man who rushes iced-water after two sets
of tennis is not trained to the hour, and must go down
before the almost equallv-good man who is. Still, the
two stood head and shoulders above the rest.
* . * *
The Rugby League is not feeling good. The
Balmain Club is on the job, also the warpath ; and an-
nounces that it has “tons of stuff ” with which to fight
the League in the Equity Court. Balmain may feel that
way just now, but when the dust has cleared it will be
found that the smile is on the face of Costs.
* * . *
Another round of Melbourne pennant cricket
finished last Saturday without any great surprises. East
Melbourne walloped Richmond by 251, Godby, of E.M..
contributing to the debacle with 129 off his own piece of
wood. South surpassed mediocre old Essendon by a
margin of 166, and Carlton conquered St. Kilda by' 227.
The action between Collingwood and Fitzroy', though
moribund at times, resulted in a win for the latter ■by
145 ; while Nort.hcote had the satisfaction of defeating
the young University gentlemen by 37 runs. The oddity
of the day was the game between Pr’an and North Mel-
bourne. Each team compiled 210 in the first innings, the
match thus ending in a draw.
* 9 * *
They walk in all shapes, too. The winner of the
late 24-hours amateur heel-and-toe match in London was
a fiddler from the Newcastle Theatre. He journeyed to
London by sea just before the event, and had a bad
passage ;,,yet he.raapiged to cover 127 miles odd. Twenty-
five men stayed out the day, and covered over 100 miles ;
they' included a 66-year-old teetotal and non-smoking
vegetarian, who never left the track.
• * • •
Burrows, the professional insomnia patient with
a club in each hand, put up a new fool record lately' at
Rockhampton (Q.). The figures were 66hr. 41min. Law-
son, American champion of the deadly monotonous sport,
has challenged Burrows, and the two useless individuals
will wave wood in the same town at an early date.


BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
To HIS MAJESTY THE KING and HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN.
ENGLAND’S GREATEST PIANO.
BRINSMEAD
PIANOS.
Established in the REIGN OF KING WILLIAM IV., and for considerably over half a
century BRINSMEAD PIANOS have gained the Highest Awards and Special Diplomas at
the principal International Exhibitions throughout the world ; also the greatest possible
distinction, the CROSS OF THE LEGION OF HONOR.
BRINSMEAD PIANOS withstand all climates and hard wear ; they remain well in
tune under the most trying conditions, and are therefore selected by the Peninsular and
Oriental Steam Navigation Company, and the other principal Steamship Lines for use on
their vessels.
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS, LTD., are in receipt of a large number of Testi-
monials from many of the world’s most famous Artistes and Composers.
ELASTICITY OF TOUCH, BEAUTY OF TONE and DURABILITY are the
well-known characteristics of the BRINSMEAD PIANOS. They are therefore selected
for use in the greatest Schools of Music, such as the ROYAL ACADEMY OF MUSIC,
ROYAL COLLEGE OF MUSIC, AND GUILDHALL SCHOOL OF MUSIC,
LONDON, and the ROYAL COLLEGE OF MUSIC, xMANCHESTER, etc.
JOHN BRINSMEAD AND SONS, LTD., continue, day by day. to improve the
Manufacture of their Instruments ; and, although it is now some years ago that a. well-known
critic designated them as “the nearest approach to perfection yet attained,” it may now
safely be claimed that they are “the most perfect pianofortes manufactured.”
The present Catalogue contains several NEW MODELS, the outcome of years of
experience.
All Genuine BRINSMEAD PIANOS bear the Registered Trade Mark :
JOHN BRINSMEAD (EL SONS,
LONDON.
SOLE AGENTS
NICHOLSON & Co. Ltd
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A CHRISTMAS FEAST
4
|!3W
Specially prepared by CHARLES DICKENS.
PEARS’ ANNUAL
1909.
Contains Four Stories specially written for
the Christmas Season by CHARLES DICKENS.
I. DOCTOR MARIGOLD. 11. GOING INTO SOCIETY.
111. BOOTS AT THE HOLLY TREE INN.
IV. THE STORY OF RICHARD DOUBLEDICK.
With very numerous and entirely new Illustrations specially drawn for this Annual by
Frank Dadd, Hugh Thomson, J. C. Dollman and Will Owen
In a superb Pictorial Cover, together with
Four Beautiful Presentation Plates
Each in about xz Colours.
Now
Ready.,
v
I
a*
I. “Naughty Boy!
or Compulsory Education. ”
By Briton Riviere, R.A.
11. “It’s Grand!’
or “ Up in the Clouds.”
111. “Oh My!” or
“Down in the Dumps.”
A most attractive pair by
William Hunt.
IV. “ Some of Life’s
Pleasures.” By
E. G. Handel Lucas.
Sold by all Booksellers.
Agents for Australasia—
GORDON & GOTCH.
The Senate’s committee of inquiry re the
press cable service extracted very little news from
the managers of the seven big papers which run
the combine. They stuck to two points : (1) that
they supplied cable information so cheaply that
they made hardly any profit out of the business ;
(2) that they wouldn’t on any account prove their
disinterestedness by producing the figures.
Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM ARTHUR CHARMAN
please communicate with D. P. Carey, Solicitor,
Rockhampton, Queensland.
EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN.
IF EDWARD RICHARD ALLEN, formerly
of Irthlingborough, England, yvho was last
heard of in Queensland in the year 1899, or any
issue of his, will apply to the undersigned, they
will hear of something to their advantage.
Anyone giving authentic information of the
above to the undersigned will be well rewarded.
SHARMAN JACKSON & ARCHER,
Solicitors, Wellingborough, England.
To take a DXLIiI* to his wife
And make hep nappy all her life,
Professor leaves his gamp behind,
For having DALLP on his mind.
* “ Dalli ” the best, most simple and most com-
fortable way of ironing. Independent of stove and
gas it can be used anywhere.
Non-inflammable fuel with
out noxious fumes. No risk
from fire; healthier and
safer than any other iron.
Of all Storekeepers.
Stocked by—
Anthony Hordbrn
& Sons, Sydney.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT
MEANS
Greater Power on Hills
AND
More Miles per Gallon.
“The Truth About
Superfluous Hair
andotlierPaci.il Blemishes” is a book just issued
by Miss Maude Maddocks, in which she explains
her reason lor offering £lOO Reward to anyone who
can permanently remove superfluous hairs by any
other process than her own, or who can prove that
hairs removed by her ever prow again. It also
explains why she offers to remove—as trial only—
a few hairs free of charge. This valuable book is
yours for the asking by applying direct to
MISS MAUDE MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street, Sydney,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, First Floor.
Entrance in King Street. ’Phone, 193 Central.
Face Massage a Speciality.
2
Good Writing Made Easy
PROFESSOR AUSTEN’S
CHART
Ensures Proficiency in One
Month with only Half-an-
Hour Daily Practice.
“The Art of Letter Writing"
GIVEN AWAY WITH EACH CHART
IF you improve your writing you will get a higher
salary. Simple progressive lessons. Failure
impossible. Price, UAL F-A-C ROWJT*
including pottage to any address.
SPECIAL OFFER.—With each order received
within two months of the date of this paper we will
present without charge a Book entitled The Art
of Letter Writing,” comprising 53 large
double-column pages and containing full instruc*
tions for Business and Personal Letters, Invitations
and every form of correspondence. Mention Paper
when ordering. Obtainable only from
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO.,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
MARY HAD A LITTLE LAMB,
But both have long been dead,
If Mary were alive to-day
She’d want a bike instead a
B. and B. MODEL 3 £ll,
because it’s the BEST that money can buy—fitted with
the finest tyres, and guaranteeed for 12 months.
Send for our splendid Free Catalogue. Mention this paper when
writing. Our Pitt Street Depot is open every Friday till 9 p.m.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
“ Largest Cycle Building
House in the State,”
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagii Street,
Sydney.
GOVERNMENT
NOTICE.
LANDS FOR SETTLEMENT. ,«
PILLICA SCRUB LANDS
NARRABRI LAND DISTRICT.
43 Blocks, from 5 to 15 miles from Narrabri West Railway Station, suitable
for agriculture, ranging in area from 822 to 1698 acres, in capital values
from £416 ss. to £l6BB 18s. 4d., and in annual rentals from £lO Bs. 2d. to
£42 4s. 6d. for the first 10 years, will become available for Conditional
Purchase Lease on 9th DECEMBER, 1909.
Applications lodged from 9th to 15th December, 1909, inclusive,
will be treated as simultaneous.
Full particulars, lithographs, application forms, etc., may be obtained at the Information
Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney, or the Crown Land Agent at Narrabri.
Department of Lands,
12th November, 1909.
Robert McDonald,
Under-Secretary.
ISSUE OF BALANCE OF SHARES
THE
AUSTRALMALAY RUBBER COMPANY Ltd.
CAPITAL - ■ £40,000
IN 40,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
DIRECTORS:
S. E. LAIDLEY. Esq. The Hon. T. WADDELL.
A. R. MINTER, Esq. (Messrs. Minter, Simpson and Co.).
J. ST. VINCENT WELCH, Esq.
J. FAIRLIE BELL, Esq. (of Kelantan).
IN VIEW of the great demand for Rubber, which is reported as quoted at over 9s. per lb., and
the enormous possibilities for the future (sales having been made at high figures for three years
ahead), together with the fact that it is considered by the Directors of the Company advisable to
utilise the whole of the capital—thereby enabling, the maximum area to be placed under cultivation at
the earliest possible date—it has been decided to offer THE BALANCE OF THE SHARES (9000
£1) for sale at par. Ready application is being made for these additional shares, and, as a conse-
quence, allotment of all shares applied for is not guaranteed by the Directors.
Illustrated Descriptive Pamphlet, Prospectus and Form
of Application may be obtained from the Brokers:—
HAIN & SEARIGHT,
12 LOFTUS STREET,
SYDNEY.


SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting Key-
less High-grade WATCHES,
Patent. Adjusted Balance,
25/-
Higjier Grades, 3P/, 40/, 50/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/,
£5, up.
A. SAUNDERS,
Oct. Gold Spray BROOCH,
Stone-set Leaf,
7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct Gold,'2-Bar “Dinna Forget” BROOCH,
set Red, Blue, or Green Stone,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Good Wishes” BROOCH,
ioy«.
In 15ct. Gold, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, Set with
Amethyst and Pearls,
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Fancy 3-Bar Scroll and Buckle
BROOCH, ■
ao/-
iSSSSa lii
• A.' SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Fancy BROOCH, Set with
Diamond and Red or Blue Stones,
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond Centre,
and Red or Blue Stones,
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
ct. Gold Knife Edge Pearl Cluster and Spray
BRACELET,
£2/10/.
m
is«u;
A. SAUNDERS.
' 18ct.- Gold, .Opals
and Pure Double
Cut Diamonds.
. £4/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Hall-
marked MOTTO
RING,
yet. Gold,
Double Buckle
RING,
17/6.
15ct. Gold, 30/.
18ct Gold, 40/.
XMAS IS NEAR AT HAND
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold PENDANT, Set
Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
Everybody likes to make their purchases early, so as to avoid possible dis-
appointment. We have the largest stock of Jewellery, Silverplate, Leatherware,
Clocks, and Cutlery in Australasia, and you’ll have no difficulty in making your
selections. We pay the postage on any of these articles, right to your home.
Write for a copy of our Illustrated Catalogue, sent post free to any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Dumb
bell LINKS,
12/6.
15ct. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6..
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£3/10/
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-.
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/
All Diamonds,
£l2/10/.
Oct. Gold Dumbbell and
Shield SLEEVELINKS,
10/6
15ct. .Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
Initials, 1/6 Extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT, Set
Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
w
' A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold PENDANT, Set
Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
2 2/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Wristlet AVATCHES, Oxidised' Cases, Special
Movement, Leather Straps, in Green, Black, and
Maroon. 1 2£/fl. Higher Grades, 15/, 17/0, 20/.
In Solid Silver, with Highest Grade Straps, 25/, 30/, 40/.
In Oct. Gold, £2/10/. '
A. SAUNDEHS.
Oct. Gold PENDANT, Set
Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
!
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Set with Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. (®old BRACELET, Set with Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£3/5/
, A. SAUNDERS,
yet. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS,
21/-
lSct. Gold, 40/. Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set with Pearls and
Amethysts,
17/6.
V
/
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
£6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless J-Plate Stem-set
Lever, Fully Jewelled, Patent Adjustable
Balance,
£2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/.
Solid Gold, £6/10/, £7/10/, £8/10/* £10, to £100.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Seal PEN-
DANT, 9ct. Gold
Frame,
12ci/1».
Other Stvles, 10/6,
15/, 17/6, "0/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Pin
and Wishbone
CHARM,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
SCARF PIN,
13/6.
pi NS
FOP
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM,
10/
Larger, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Juvenile Fancy Chased BRACELET,
with Strong Safety Chain,
17/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6. 15/6, 20/.
OPEN
FACE,
20/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
I
/
Sr
w
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Keyless Knock-
about WATCHES, Lever Movement, Perfectly
Timed and Adjusted, and Waterproof Cases,
20/-
Higher Grades, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDLUS.
9ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
Set with Opals,
30/-
15ct Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
SCARF PIN,
Set Pearls and
Garnet or
Peridot,
10/G.
A. SAUNDERS
9ct. Gold
Horseshoe
CHARM,
set. with
Ruby or
Sapphire,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PIN
and SLIPPER
CHARM,
4/6
OPEN
FACE,
10/
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6.
/
N
ksi
X
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-faced Keyless
WATCHES, Strong, and Accurate
Timekeepers, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/,
17/6—price according to quality of
movement.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scroll and Fancy Centre
BROOCH, Set Red and Green Stones,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Wishbone and Bird Floral
Spray BROOCH, Bell and Chain
attached,
12/6.
Esza
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, Set with
Red, Green, or Blue Stone,
6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold MUSIC BROOCH, “Dearest,”
Very Neat.
12/6.
Fcarl-set, 20/.
• A
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy 2-Bar BROOCH, Set
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
25/-
C"
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BAR BROOCH, set Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
25/-
Q O
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2-BAR BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies or Sapphires,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Set with Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SIGNET
RING,
20/-
15ct Gold, 40/;
18et, 50/. _
Engraving Initials,
Free.
Kct. Gold BAND
RING,
7/6
15ct Gold, 20/.
Heavier, 25/.
Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set
Diamonds and
Olivines, £4/10/.
Olivines,
£4/10/.
i
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


"FLIES
CARRY
DISEASE:
The COMMON
HOUSE FLY
is a Danger to
Human Life.
vv£
<s>
y Evfery Fly is
Mmv. Killer
at Heart.”
IT’S hairy body carries both disease
and death. Having' its orig'in in
tilth, it bring's with it the badteria
which breeds in tilth. And as it moves
about, now crawling' over refuse, now
over the food of the table, flying from the lips of the sicK to
the lips of the healthy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were the wild beasts to primitive man.
The high mortality among children in the congested
districts of a city, where families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
living' rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
the fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when the
flies abound.
Is the Greatest KILLER
of FLIES other Insecfts.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIB ANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious*
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale :
ELLIOTT BROS.,
Australian Drug Coy.
SYDNEY.


Amusements.
Town hall, Sydney.
THUKSDAY, DECEMBER 2, at S p.m.
LUCILLE STUART (Luxu) BENSTEAD
(Aged IS),
Australia’s Youngest Dramatic Soprano,
SUPPORTED BY OTHER CLEVER ARTISTS,
will present a
GRAND CONCERT PROGRAMME.
Prices—3s., 25., Is.
Box Plan open at Nicholson’s, November 16.
Theatre royal, syoney.
Lessee : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 20,
RETURN OF “ AUSTRALIA’S IDOL,”
NELLIE STEWART,
with a Brief Revival of Paul Hester’s Comedv Drama,
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY
(For Twelve Nights only).
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■■ Lessee and Manager :J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AT S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
' in the Most Melodious of Music il Comedies
A COUNTRY GIRL.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, MEYNELL « GUNN SEASON.
Managing Directors : Clydk Mkynkll and Joujf Gunn.
A TREMENDOUS TRIUMPH.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
Shakspeare’s Tragedy,
OTHELLO.
Plan, Elvy’s.
Day Sale, White Rose.
JHE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAY'S at 2,30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION-2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s 6d.
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at S; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, arid BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices: 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
OIJOU PICTURE PALACE
(Bijou Amusements, Limited).
GEORGE STREET, opp. Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE HOME of MOVING PICTURES
The Latest, the Best, and Steadiest.
EVERY EVENING at S.
MATINEES EVERY SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY,
and HOLIDAYS, at 2.30.
POPULAR PRICES—I/6, 1/-, and SIXPENCE.
Cl HEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
J Price 2/0. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manaerer — Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
FRED CURRAN. DOLLY HARMER.
THREE TRAPNELL SISTERS & BROTHER GEORGE.
BROWN and ROBINSON. GUEST and NEWLYN.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS, and AUSTRALIA’S
LITTLE TICH.
BERTHA STUART. HASSAN.
MR. IRVING SAYLES. MR. FRED BLUETT.
MR. 808 LLOYD. MISS NELLIE POWER.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan an Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
BERT TERRELL, Comedian and Dancer.
HAROLD PARKES, Eccentric Dancer.
ATHMORE GREY in the Salome Dance.
FRANKO PIPER, Banjo Expert.
ROLAND GEORGE, Musician.
CAPTAIN WINSTON’S Performing Seals.
Plan at Allan’s. XST PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
■HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager —William Andkrson.
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 20,
BLAND HOLT’S AMUSEMENT
CO.
THE BONDMAN
Popular Prices—3s., 2s. and One Shilling.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
LI ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON
has pleasure in announcing for
SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 20,
THE DELIGHTFUL COMEDY OPERA,
THE LADY DANDIES.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
-pH EAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A BIG SUCCESS.
Messrs. MEYNELL & GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
—IN—
THE GIRL BEHIND the COUNTER
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
GL AC I AR I U M,
Lessees
MELBOURNE.
J. &N. TAIT.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS& Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
QUEST’S BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
¥,r THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES THE B O f* LL
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices—l/6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D. C. 1/-
V. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk.” a
eollectionof his best verses ; bound in doth, with
portrait; pri co 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bcu.ktiN office, os.
Amusements
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
WIRTHS’ PARK, PRINCES BRIDGE,
MELBOURNE.
THE PICTURE PAVILION PAR EXCELLENCE.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8,
the Pre-eminent and Perfect
KING’S PICTURES.
"Superior to All.”
A Superb Programme of Subjects changed every week.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wed. & Sat, and All Holidays.
Business Announcements.
Boomerang Fence Droppers
THE STRONGEST AND CHEAPEST.
20 Per Cent.
Former
Send for Price List.
Reduction on
Prices.
GIANT FENCE CO.,
Catnperrlown, N.S. W.
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat it-
by Prof. W. J. Pikrck.
Something 1 every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day
r Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
BRIAR
Pipes
GBD
Pipes
The only PIPES
That have stood
the Test of Time.
All Good Smokers Use Them
Ssk for them and see
.. that you get them ..
with 4 months
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
Catarrh is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia,' also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note jos. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Hovelty Co., 209-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
Business Announcements.
e
KIKG’S
CCORTOK Cartridge
For .22 Rifle Shooting both for 'I
Sport and Range practice, these |
British made Cartridges yve
you the best results. Ihe
hollow point bullet is pur-
posed (or sporting. All
Ammunition Dealers
Agents
THE COLONIAL
AMMUNITION CO.
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
Favorite-Perfume
r>s
///»;*/ r *
f.WOLFF*SOHN
F.Woiff&Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
> BERLIN * LONDON
Obtainable from all the leading: establishments.
Hotelkeepers, Chemists, Confectioners, Cafe-Owners,
■
i
n.
THE- “GLACIER”
SODA FOUNTAIN
Constructed of Finest Italian Marble.
Handsomely Mounted with
Nickel-Plated Fittings.
Fitted Internally with our Patent
Cooler.
Produces a Well-Mixed, Ice-Cold,
Effervescing Drink.
= Storekeepers =
Make Money this Sommer by installing a
“GLACIER”
Soda Fountain
... AND AN...
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water
jZ? Machine jZ?
CATALOGUES and full PARTICULARS on request.
THE- “AUSTRAL”
AERATED WATER
MACHINE
Produces the Very Best Soda Water
for less than ONE PENNY
PER DOZEN.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, and all
Syruped Drinks for Less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN.
Requires no Skilled Labor —only
One Youth to work it.
Over 2000 Machines in use through-
out Australia.
PRICE £lB and Upwards; Cash or Terms.
Queensland Agents : ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 110 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS AND PATENTEES—
ECRERSLEY &, vSONvS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.


to
2?
/a
mmim
2
Tj\
\ mum'
Leak
pONGO ROOFING is made for all
weathers. An unusually severe storm
won’t hurt it. An extraordinary hot spell
won’t hurt it. An extra long cold snap
won’t hurt it. It will stand any kind of
exposure. The weather finds no way in
which to attack Congo Roofing.
DAIN can’t damage it, because there is
nothing in it that is affected by water
in any way. If Congo Roofing were put
at the bottom of a pond, the water would
never disintegrate it.
A IR can’t damage it because there is
nothing in it that is volatile —nothing
that will evaporate. If Congo Roofing
were hung out like a flag for years, so that
air could get at both sides of it, it would
stay just as pliable and elastic as when new.
P LI MATE can’t change it because there
is nothing in it that is affected by either
heat or cold. The heat on roofs is often
terrific, and in cold weather the snow thaws
and freezes there for weeks, but Congo has
never shown any effects of such exposure.
[T can’t rot because there is nothing in it
that can decompose. It is because we
know the nature of the materials we use that
we venture to say that Congo Roofing is
practically indestructible.
DEOPLE who buy Congo Roofing for a
building once don’t buy any more in
after years —for that building—because it is
there to stay , although the roof costs but
little. They do buy more for their other
roofs. Everyone who tries Congo is soon
a convert, and he becomes more enthusi-
astic the longer he waits for the roof to
wear out.
PVERY foot of Congo Roofing is care-
fully inspected as it comes off the
machine. No imperfect rolls are allowed
to leave the factory. Every pound. of the
material that enters into the composition is
carefully tested before being used, and
strictly held to standard. Should it fail in
the slightest way, it is immediately discarded.
Congo Roofing is handsome in appearance,
being of a uniform slate-grey color.
pONGO ROOFING is put up in rolls
36 inches wide. Each roll contains
200
216 square feet, sufficient to cover
square feet and allow for a 2-inch lap. The
rolls are finished with an attractive wrapper
and label, and are capped with a special
metal cap to protect the ends of the roofing.
A steel rod runs through the centre to hold
the caps and cement securely in place.
CUFFICIENT Congo cement, nails
and tin caps for applying are neatly
packed in the centre of each roll, so that
you pay nothing for extras.
pONGO ROOFING is easy to apj
Skilled labor is not necessary. You
don’t have to hire an expert to help. If
you can drive a nail you can do alb the
work that is necessary.
CONGO DAMP COURSE
Congo Damp Course is an effective armor against underground dampness
and vapors. It should be used under basement and cellar floors and
cemented tight with Congo Cement. The lime in mortar will not injure
it, the earth gases will not hurt it, water is powerless against it, white ants
find that it contains certain antiseptics which they cannot attack, vermin
and rodents likewise leave it strictly alone. Congo Damp Course costs so
little and is so easily put in place that you cannot afford to build without it.
G. C. Delmar, Sydney, N.S.W., Australasian Representative for “ Congo.”
.->• i •'
NOYES BROS.. 109 Pitt St.. Sydney


What about a KODAK
for that Christmas Trip ?
The story of a Christmas holiday as told by a Kodak
is always interesting, and it’s an easy story to record, for
the Kodak works at the bidding of the merest novice. There is
no dark room for any part of Kodak work; it’s all simple from
start to finish—very simple indeed.
Won’t you want one to take with youP There’s nothing
cumbersome about a Kodak, and enough films will go in your
pocket to last right through the trip. You can develop anywhere,
any time with a Kodak Tank—no dark room needed.
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak
is an ideal camera for tourist and all-round work. It takes beautiful
pictures measuring x s^in. —the popular postcard size.
It is fitted with a rapid rectilinear lens, the F.P.K. automatic shutter,
two tripod sockets, a brilliant reversible finder with hood and an automatic
focussing lock. The total weight is only 410 Z., yet it embraces all the practical
features of cameras several times its bulk. For simplicity of construction,
ease in use and certainty of results you couldn’t choose anything as good as
a Kodak, and this No. 3A only costs
£.4 lOs. Postage 1/2.
Other Kodaks from 265.
The famous Brownies from ss.
CALL AND SEE THEM, OR WRITE FOR THE COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
I
I
/
i
/
fc ...irJ
/.£st
&as
** kit
ir?^
■ajll?..,
s»
S' »!*»
: ■
Sp!j ■^SsK
4fV
wWapOtTH
M 1? w 3 ,-■
4 >
*-r
&
IV
Baßer (Si Rouse Propty. Ltd.,
SOLE AGENTS FOR. AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
No. HB92B—lscb. Gold Pearl and Tourmaline Set
Bangle, £B.
No. H7O7o—Pearl and Tourmaline
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch Pendant,
£7/15/-
©=o-—«©
No. Jll7 —9ct. Gold Safety Pins,
Turquoise Set,
11/6 and 7/6 each.
No. FB7l8 —18ct.
Gold, Five Rows
Assorted Gems,
Bangle Ring, £7/7/-
No. H4723—Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold Circle Brooch, Real
Coral Drop, £l/7/6.
No. H3Bl2—9ct. Gold Heavy Twist Bangle, set Diamonds
and Bubies, £4/10/-
No. Hl69 —Diamond Sunburst
Brooch or Pendant, Finest
Quality, £57/10/-
No. 03343—Pearl Set Lace
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 9/6.
No. C 3342 —Pearl Set Oct, Gold
Safety Pin, 9/6.
No. I)l276—Whole Pearl and Diamond
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/>
No. G9l4l—lsct. Gold Brooch, Set
Single Diamond, £2/10/-
No. H6Ol i>— Pearl : nd
Tourmaline Set Pendant,
9ot. Gold, £2/2/-
'awsmt
(AUSTRALIA)
Ltd
WE aim to supply all conditions of people and all size
purses, and so satisfactorily do we do it that we, at
some time during the year, get all the lovers of
pretty things as customers. These are examples of the
Newest Designs and Range of Prices. If you cannot call,
write for our Fine Art Illustrated Catalogue. Postage paid
on all articles ordered by post. Money back if goods are
not up to representations.
No. H7732—Pearl Set 15Ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, in Case, £7/7/-
Magnificent Diamond “ New Moon and Crescent ” Brooch, £7O.
LTEvr
No. Cloo—lscfc. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise Spray Brooch, £l5.
No. H7729—Pearl and Tur-
quoise Set, 15ct. Gold Tortoise
Safety Brooch, £2/15/-
No. HS929—lsct. Gold, Pearl and Green or Pink Tourmalii
Set Bangle, £lO/10/-
No. F22s2 —Pearl Set. loot. Gold Brooch,
£l/10/-
No. G3341—15ct. Gold, Opal and
Ruby Brooch, £2.
No. C3334—15ct. Gold,
Pearl, and Australian
Ruby Set Bi'ooch, £3/3/-
No. J62o—Finest Quality
Diamond Ring, £l6/10/-
No. C36lo—Whole Pearl, Ruby
and Diamond Ser, Brooch
Pendant, £3O.
m.
-
No. 148—Fine Diamond and Ruby Set Bangle,
9ct. Gold, £4 10s.
No. G9sl2—Fine Sapphire or Ruby Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l5/10/-
No. Clo9—Finest Quality Single Stone Diamond
Brooch, £65.
No. 2003—Diamond Star Brooch
or Pendant, £57/10/-


Why Not Make Your Summer
Suit Australian ?
TTOLIDAY SUITS, Lounge Suits, Flannel Suits, Tennis
Suits, Boating Suits everywhere and on everybody. Every-
=== one must have them, and everyone wants them of the
best. Now nobody can know anything more certainly than this .
for lightness, coolness and wear nothing can beat Australian Wool
-pure wool, and nothing but wool; the wool that is to be. obtained in
Vicars’ Tweeds and Flannels. Vicars of Marrickville guarantee this,
and will back their guarantee by sending samples to anyone who is
unable otherwise to get their tweeds and flannels.
Remember, when you are buying a suit of Vicars Tweed or
Flannel, you are not only getting the finest article of its kind in the
world, but you are demonstrating to Australia your belief in some-
thing which is all Australian, and doing your little bit to help
Australia by supporting (all the time for your own good) Australia s
national industry.
Besides, the economic and natural logical conclusion must be
that it is better to get tweed or flannel made from all pure wool
which has been specially selected and bought by the manufacturer in
the country of origin, than it is to buy suits of flannel or tweed
composed of a mixture of everything shoddy made in a far distant
country and then shipped back to Australia. Have sense.
Again, if your tailor doesn’t keep these goods, or says he doesn t
keep them, send along a postcard for samples to John Vicars & Co.,
Marrickville, Sydney. Distributing Agents (Wholesale) .W. S.
Cook & Son, York Street, Sydney ; Flinders Lane, Melbourne.


Shipping-.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklrournk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantlb Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA E N CLAN D.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial [flutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOP.
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hkai> Ofkicis :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring: £33.838,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Ohikf Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STRHET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Sank of (|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director: •
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST:
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Quzensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up £508,197 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,824 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 73,500 0 0
£744.521 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. —-
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst.. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
EXECUTORS
THE TRUSTEES,
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED.
412 Colllns-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £35,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman •
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; Hon.’
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Hotels, &c.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping.
N ord D i
ord JL/eutscher Lyloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
- r--~ —iiuuuuiuiu opeeu,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
Tel. 698, 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Bank of [)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£2,000,000
£500,000
£710,998
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.'
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chair
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. .1. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia ; JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ RB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
•Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London ~ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
November 24.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
December 22.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC, to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES —Capetown or IHirban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. ' 17 6
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DaUjeti) and ( omjxini/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. \
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district,.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., lO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
* the important features being::
(a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO.
(b) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during:
currency of loan.
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to
31 years.
The tenures upon which the Advance Department may lend are (1) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Homestead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (G) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on Countri' lands well
* situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Skorktary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
(d) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
are payable half-yearly.
0 e ) Borrower has the rigtit to repay the loan
on any instalment date; interest to that
date only being- charged.
RICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
S, H. McDONALD, Manager.
TASMANIA
.The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
HIGHFIELD
.The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
and Re-
for the
Cuisine.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &c.
FITZ’vS
Genuine Folding
PANAMAS.
Thoroughly
Bleached.
Post Free
Anywhere
12/6
I FITZGERALD
BROS.,
North Melbourne.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cared without operation. T hen send lor particulars
o, our perfectfiiting
Automatic Air cushion Appliance
The Best Ruptur" Applianc * of the Centimy'
Twj Day* Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre s
WINSLOW CO., 251 Collins St.,Melbourne, Vic
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
rail
m,
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS
J. H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
FITS CURED
I the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials. 1
OF ALL CHEMISTS, STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
Messrs .Sayers, Aliport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared b ' I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist
25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping afc Fremantle
toal] North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), December 4,
calling' at all N.-West
Ports to Wyndham.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yongala, Nov. 20.
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 27.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAIIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing' the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
SPECIAL EXCURSION
TO THE MAGNIFICENT
WEST COAST SOUNDS
OF NEW ZEALAND
without transhipment.
ROUND TRIP WILL OCCUPY 11 DAYS.
FARE— £l2 I Os. to £l5 10s.
Two and Three-Berth Cabins only.
It is proposed to despatch the Royal Mail Twin-screw
Steamer
MAKURA, 8100 TONS
(if sufficient inducement offers),
TO MILFORD SOUND DIRECT,
Leaving- Sydney FRIDAY, 31st DECEMBER ;
Arriving back TUESDAY, 11th JANUARY.
Steamer will remain three days in Milford Sound, and
will then visit the Southern Sounds.
ONLY FIRST-CLASS PASSENGERS will be carried,
and, to ensure comfort on board, the number will be
limited.
Full particulars on application to—
UNION S.S. CO. OF N.Z., Ltd., George Street.
HUDDART, PARKER & CO., PROP., Ltd., Pitt Street.
F\=H—CY
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Sukz Canal.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,400 Tons. T. Priske, Commander.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY - - 23rd Nov.
~ „ „ MELBOURNE - 30th Nov.
» » ~ ADELAIDE - - 7th Dec.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and
LIVERPOOL..
£49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “ DORSET.” For further information, illustrated
books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane :
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
I—l AVE you fried this beautiful SKIN PREPARATION?
1 1 VERONIQUE. WE ONLY WISH YOU TO TRY A
SMALL JAR—the result will be so gratifying- to you that
you would not be without it for one day. Every French-
woman who values her complexion uses VERONIQUE. It
does wonders for them, and will do the same for you.
VERONIQUE makes the skin smooth, soft and white, re-
moves blemishes, and so nourishes the skin that wrinkles
disappear. VERONIQUE costs 3s. per small and ss. per
large jar. Obtainable front the Sole Agents only : THE
AUSTRALIA MANICURE AND TOILET ROOMS, 42a
Castlereagh Street (over Medlow Bath Hydro Offices),
exactly opposite the Hotel Australia. Entrance through
large doorway. Here also are the finest Manicure Rooms
in Sydney. Add 6d. for postage.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Herrons Conghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bv all Chemists.
A
POLICY fob
Price, Gd.
THE COMMONWEALTH
The Bulletin OfficC,


THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
PAID-UP CAPITAL .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £1,600,000
RESERVE FUND (£500,000 invested in 2J per cent. Consols at 80 ; the remainder being
u<ed in the business of the Bank).. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,660,000
RESERVE LIABILITY of PROPRIETORS under the Charter 1,600,000
£4,860,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT of the DIRECTORS of the BANK of AUSTRALASIA,
with the Accounts for the Half-year to 12th April, 1909,
Presented to the Proprietors at the Half-yearly General Meeting, held on Thursday, 7th October, 1909.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-Sheet as at 12th April last, with the Profit Account for the
half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and colonial rates and taxes, and for
all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £174,111 ss. sd.
To this sum must be added £16,795 ss. Bd., brought forward from the previous half-year, making a total of
£190,906 11s. Id., out of which the Directors have declared a dividend for the half-year at the rate of 12 per cent, pet-
annum, or £2 Bs. per share, and a bonus of Bs. per share, free of income tax.
The dividend and bonus will absorb £112,000, and the Directors have further appropriated £50,000 to the
Reserve Fund and £12,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There will then remain £16,906 11s. ld.„ to be
carried forward to the next account.
The dividend and bonus will be payable, in London and in the colonies, on Bth October.
Since the date of the last report the Bank has opened new branches at Blayney, New South Wales, and Moora,
Western Australia.
L. SANDERSON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 27th September, 1909.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from OCTOBER 12, 1908, to APRIL 12, 1909.
Undivided profit, October 12, 1908 «.. .. ..£128.795 5 8
Less : Dividend and bonus, April 2, 1909 112,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to April 12,1909, after deducting rebate on bills current at balance
date (£5517 18s. 4d.) and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts .. .. £338,047 17
Less :
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial—
Salaries and allowances to the Colonial Staff, including the
Superintendent’s Department and 171 Branches and
Agencies .. .. .. .. .. .. ~ ..£102,293 11 9
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery,
travelling, etc .. .. 24,504 7 2
London —
Salaries .. .. 9,631 6 4
General expenses 3,17 S 9 6
£16,795
7
5 8
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial
London
Total amount of unappropriated profit ..
From which deduct —
For transfer to Reserve Fund ..
For reduction in cost of bank premises
Leaving available for dividend
£139,607 14 9
£12,671 18 0
11,656 19 5
24,328 17 5
163,936 12 2
• 174,111 6 5
£190,906 11 1
£50,000 0 0
12,000 0 0
62,000 0 0
£128,906 11 1
Dr.
BALANCE SHEET, APRIL 12, 1909.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. .. .. .. £552,741 0 0
Deposits 16,179,907 8 10
Bills payable and other liabilities .. 2,173,216 19 8
£18,905,865 8 6
Capital £1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. 1,660,000 0 0
(Of which £500,000 is
invested in 2£ per
cent. Consols at 80,
the remainder being’
used in the business
of the bank.)
Profit account, un-
divided balance .. 125.906 11 1
3,388,906 11 1
£22,294,771 19 7
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances
Loans at call and short notice ..
British Government securities
India and Colonial Governments secu-
rities and other investments..
Bills receivable, advances on secu-
rities, and other assets
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand, and London
£4,000,984 8 6
1,648,000 0 0
927,187 2 11
529,230 18 9
15,008,991 14 0
180,377 15 5
£22,294,771 19 7
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers
from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg' to report that, in our opinion, the
foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the
bank’s affairs as shown by the books.
London, 22nd September, 1909.
WELTON, JONES and CO., Auditors.
PALMER
CORD
TYRES.
are Better —Stronger —and More Durable Tyres
than all others .
Their immense popularity with Motorists is suf-
ficient reason why YOU should investigate their
merits before coming to a buying decision ——.
Catalogue and Price List on application.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY
279 George Street, Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles,
Surprise & Joke Novelties.
THE
MAGIC
NOSE
BALL.
o
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX,
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening- the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price, with full directions,
7d. post free.
Very novel and surprising. You squeeze the ball,
and out flies the nose in a most amusing manner.
On releasing the pressure the nose at once dis-
appears. One of the most comical novelties to be
found in our varied stock, and affords no end of amusement
for old and young. Price 1/-, or post frep anywhere for 1/2.
NICKEL-PLATED CHANGE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white throughout.
Will hold any of the coins, as illustrated, and will also take
sovereigns and half-sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments,
and pennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/-compartments.
Split ring attached for affixing to watch or key chain. Price,
post free p,ny where, 1/2.
&
as*
£3
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY.
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street*, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney
Their Majesties
the German Emperor
the King of Spain
the King of Greece
His Excellency
the Governor-General
of Australia
use the
VAToU
The Standard Outfit con-
sists of quadruple silver-
plated, self-s trapping razor;
one dozen tested lancet-
steel blades ; one horsehide
strop ; in leather case size
2 in. by in.
Sold by all lead-
ing dealers.
25/-
NET
Is the best too good for you ?
You can enjoy the same luxu-
rious, safe, quick, convenient
shaving by investing 25/- in
the Auto Strop Safety Razor
No continual expense for new blade
Descriptive booklet free on request to the
Agents for Australia:
Lamson Store Service Co., Ltd.
The Rialto, Collins St„ Melbourne & 222 Clarence St., Sydney
Auto Strop Safely Razor Go.. Ltd 61
Also at Paris, New York and Montreal.
Compare This Razor.
We, as practical Hairdressers, knowing' JUST what is
needed in a good razor, ask you to compare THE
PLUM with others and notice its superiority. It’s
a keen cutter with the PERFECT shaving edge that
gives all round satisfaction. Guaranteed and kept
in order two years free of charge.
Price 10/6.
Posted free to
any address.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
A MONEYMAKER for Hotelkeepers.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale and Sodawater at 3d. per dozen.
We guarantee the Machine to do the work.
A FORTUNE for ENTERPRISING HOTELKEEPERS
Complete Outfits from £l5. Sold on Easy Terms.
Soda Fountains and Carbonators to suit Chemists and
Confectioners. Write to-day.
NELSON CARBONATING CO.,
167 GEORGE STREET, Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
THE X
VITAL
PART
IT’S THE GOLD PEN
THAT GIVES THE LIFE
and is the real basis of
value in any fountain
pen. The thorough
reliability of the
HABIE,TODD SCO'S
/VMTAMP&L
is due to the absolute mechanical and scientific
perfection of its gold pen—the product of 50 years’
experience—in conjunction with its feed, which is
made on nature’s laws ; and component parts which fit
absolutely. The “SWAN ” requires no adjustment, but starts
instantly, never skips or blots, and lasts a lifetime.
SOLD BY ALL
STATIONERS and
JEWELLERS.
Our illustrated Booklet tells about
the.“SWAN ’’—write for it to-day—
post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., Manufacturers,
London and Branches.
Australian representative :
JAS. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building,
24 Bond Street, Sydney.


The best way to be sure that children will
grow up strongand healthy is tokeep their stomach,
liver and bowels in perfect condition by an
occasional dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets.*
Hollingdale & Kessell, the well-known King
Street Jewellers, have just issued their Special Christmas
Catalogue of watches, jewellery, and a host of other
pretty and inexpensive presents in gold, silver and
electro-plate. The book is comprehensive, and is pro-
fusely illustrated. This firm sends these out free, and they
ought to provide a solution of the present question which
go perplexes the gift giver at the Christmas Season.*
Can’t Shake It Off.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark ; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
CHRISTMAS
PRESENTS.
Our Book of Christmas Presents
will be sent to you if you give us
your address.
It is a well-arranged book that
will save you thought and money.
Saving Customers’ worry is a
speciality of ours.
We make up—
5/- Parcels of Toys
10/- Parcels of Toys
20/- Parcels of Toys
which always give satisfaction.
When ordering parcels to be
selected by us, give the ages and
sexes of children for whom you wish
the present. We’ll do the rest.
FINNEY, ISLES
& CO., LIMITED,
THE 810 BLOCK,
BRISBANE
IN BANANA LAND
Brisbane Trams.
Brisbane Tramway Co. has already cut large
chips off the suburban railway revenue, and
wants to hew off a few more. On three of the
routes (Brisbane-Toowong, Brisbane-Clayfield and
Brisbane-Logan-road) the railway receipts have
shrunk like a last year’s tomato; and Tramway-
Manager Badger, evidently thinking that the
Government likes to see its revenues shrink,
suggests that the State should give his co. a con-
cession for a further 25 years on condition that he
builds some more lines. Kidston would have
snapped back that the State has given away too
much already, and that it will now wait and take
over the present lines at the earliest possible
moment, and build the new lines itself. But
Kidston is dead, and Phidston is liable to say any-
thing to a syndicate. Badger’s mild suggestion,
by the way, recalls the fact that shindykits always
work along these lines. This is the process put in
a few words :
(1) The shindykit gets a concession for, perhaps, 30
years, and builds (say) a fine up-to-date tramway system
of a certain specified mileage.
(2) In 10 years the city has expanded, and more mileage
is wanted. The shindykit says it will extend its lines if
it,gets 10 or 20 years tacked on to its lease. Otherwise
the blamed city can wait 20 years for extensions, or it can
build the extensions itself. If it does the latter then the
syndicate will occupy the centre of the city, and the
State or municipal system will consist of a dozen detached
fragments in the suburbs, and be hopelessly unpayable
and unmanageable.
(3) In 20 years the splendidly up-to-date system is
obsolete. The shindykit is willing to turn it into a newer
system if it gets 25 years tacked on to its term. Other-
wise the city may just struggle with a tram system that,
in the last year, will be almost as much a subject of ridi-
cule as Jehu’s chariot.
(4) No. 2 over again. More extension of time wanted.
(5) No. 3 over again. Same thing wanted.
(6) Both of them over again.
(7) Ditto.
Melbourne has seven years of perfectly obsolete
tramway rattletrap ahead of it before any pros-
pect of reform looms on the horizon, but it hopes
to hang out till 1916 and then cast its octopus
into the sea. But Brisbane has an even longer
road to travel, and it will be a mighty hard road
be.'..re the travelling is finished.
The straight line between Brisbane and
Warwick is again troubling the minds of Phidston
and co. It would shorten the journey between
Brisbane and Sydney by two hours, but its
estimated cost is £690,000, and even Philp stares
at that. The line would run through the historic
Cunningham’s Gap—the orifice by which Allan
Cunningham passed from the Darling Downs after
viewing the distant Pacific Ocean. The present
main line between Ipswich and Warwick was an
appalling job; so that it might touch certain
ancient politicians’ properties it wriggled like a
distressed caterpillar, and travellers are getting
very tired of wandering round the letter S when
they might hustle along the letter I.
“ S.R.” speaks his mind about Rockhamp-
ton’s trams :
About two years ago Rockhampton decided to get itself
a municipal tramway system. The first thing the col-
lective genius of the Council decided on was that no one
in Australia was competent to make either cars or tram-
way material—everything must be imported. When the
ratepayers had agreed to the proposed loan of £'25,000,
the Council took off its coat and hustled like a fiend from
the Pit (bottomless —not coal). The first battle raged
round the old question of contract v. day labor. The
Council eventually decided upon what it was pleased to
call day labor ; but it was quite a new variety of the old
pastime, inasmuch as a firm of engineers was engaged
to supervise the work of construction at a remuneration
of 10 per cent, of the total cost of construction. The
more day labor cost the more the firm gof. When the
original loan of £25,000 was all eaten up, and the Council
found itself compelled to raise a further £BOOO, it up-
lifted a howl about the utter failure of the day-labor
system —the variety it had invented for itself. Subse-
quently the question of rolling stock was grappled with,
and the aldermen decided to import the cars from France.
They either didn’t know, or else they ignored the fact,
that the Brisbane Tramway Company has been making
all its own cars for years back ; that the Sydney cars are
built in Australia; and that the Adelaide ones are con-
structed in the same benighted country. Anyway, the
engineers were told to go ahead and import the four cars
and trailers required. They went ahead as ordered, and
one day a ship staggered into Rockhampton loaded down
to her Plimsoll mark with several mighty crates. Each
crate contained a fully equipped tram, set up and in
complete running order! With immense trouble,
the cases—each big enough to hold Divine ser-
vice in—were placed upon the wharf and a
steam traction engine dragged them to the lines. The
next immense thing to arrive was the bill for freight and
shipping charges. It was large enough to hold Divine
service on. Something closely resembling £BOO was in-
scribed on the tail end of it—which was at the rate of
£2OO per tram. Rockhampton has had its imported car
running for some months now. The tubing in the boilers
is wearing out, and cables have been sent to Paris order-
ing a quantity of extra tubing. It is asserted that the
tubing is of peculiar construction, and cannot be made in
Australia. The mineralised water of Rockhampton is
blamed for the damage ; so now it is being treated ors
boiled or stirred or something, in order to save the wear
and tear on the French machines’ innards. An interest-
ing financial juggle was performed during the early stages
of the confusion. When the original £25,000 advanced by
the Government had been dispersed, and the lines were
still in an unfinished state, and when the necessitj' of
raising the other £BOOO became a clear and distinct night-
mare, the Council was split up into Tramites and
Anti-Tramites. The Antis wanted to stop at the £25,000 ;
but the Tramites insisted on seeing the job through.
Kidston was fully engaged hanging by his teeth to his
portfolio, and the £BOOO was slow in arriving. There u>as
no money in the Council’s treasury to pay wages, etc.,
and the Antis had a majority against the proposal to
utilise for tramway purposes any fund other than the
Tramway Fund. The Mayor and Finance Committee
took the bull by the bowsprit and advanced on the Coun-
cil’s bank manager with a request for a loan. Accounts
of that interview differ somewhat; but the upshot
was that the Council’s business was transferred to
another bank. The new bank lent the sum asked
for, and a subsequent meeting of the Council con-
firmed the action taken. But for a day or two Rock-
hampton oscillated with the shindy raised in the press
and out of it by the Council and the two bank managers.
It wouldn’t be safe even now to wager that Rockhamp-
ton’s tram troubles are quite finished. A council that
imports tram cars in crates, like crockery or rabbits, is not
a reliable animal to bet upon.
A GREAT SKIN CURE FREE.
Messrs. R. Towns & 00., 16 Loftus Street, Sydney,
N.S.W., will send on application to any address, post free,
a liberal sample of Cuticura, the great skin cure, together
with description and treatment in a 32-page pamphlet of
scores of torturing, disfiguring humors, eczemas, rashes,
irritations, inflammations, scalings, crustings and other
distressing conditions of the skin, scalp, hair and hands
of infants, children and adults. The fact that so well-
known a house as that of Messrs. R. Towns & Co. have
given Cuticura its unqualified endorsement as a remedy
for the skin, after an intimate acquaintance with it of
over 25 years, should induce all in need of such a remedy
to make an immediate request for a trial package.*
The Police Jurisdiction and Summary
Offences Bill, just brought before the Queensland
State Parliament, bulges with pains and penalties.
If it passes in its present shape it will be unlawful
to breathe loudly in the Northern Stateon a Sunday
morning, and anyone harboring a hiccough or the
usual brown taste in the mouth will be dealt with
accordingly. Sweeps will be off, also Sunday
papers ; and Ichabod will be written over Tatt.’s
clubs ; though the Queensland Club will be able
to have its little go at bridge or poker as hereto-
fore. The motor hog mustn’t honk or smell, and is
classed with the bottle-o and the vagrant as an
object of suspicion. Generally John Hop is to be
It, and his large and impressive foot can, if
necessary, stop the sale of a soft drink to a thirsty
child on the Sabbath morn, and the Sunday
banana is to rot in peace. Philp and Co. are
evidently suffering from conscience or misspent
youth or something serious, and the countenance
of the Queensland wowser is wreathed in a sour
smile.
“Leo Lear ” : The Kilp or Phidston com-
bine shows signs of departing from the ways of
righteousness in pursuit of the much-vaunted rail-
way policy. To date there has not been much
circumnavigating or useless mileage in Queens-
land’s railway-building. But starting from Cor-
dalba, the Isis terminus, Phidston’s officers have
just completed the survey of a line which is to
meander for the greater part of 34 miles through
wretchedly poor country before pulling up at
Dallarnil, the place it wants to reach. Certainly
it takes a sort of G. Reid backward twist to
Booval; but Booyal is so small a scrub that it is
not likely to attract much attention at any time.
The real object of the proposed line is to open the
rich Dallarnil scrub for sugar-cane; and this
is a district that is worth opening —it
ought to keep three mills going. Now, the
scrub in question commences right alongside
the Maryborougli-Gayndah railway, and is
only 16 miles away at its farthest point.
So a branch from that railway could start opening
HIS OBVIOUS IGNORANCE.
JOHNNY (at wayback pub): “ Haw! My good fellow, could you tell me where the—ah ! —
bathroom is!"
MULGA MICK (disgusted): “ The bathroom! Nous, do I look like a man wot knows where the
Crimson bathroom is!”
up the aforesaid scrub within three miles, and
every mile after that would be a mile through the
district which Phidston says it wants to open up.
Yet, in spite of that, a line is proposed which will
wander about for 34 miles before it touches the
hereinbefore mentioned scrub, and will then (ac-
cording to present arrangements) expire suddenly
on the fringe of the scrub already hinted at.
Whaffor ?
A. H. Davis (“Steele Rudd”) is going to
oppose Fusionist Groom at next Federal election.
Davis is a fairly good speaker, and can put some
vigor into his remarks, while Groom is a savorless
person, like a drop of skim milk crying in the
wilderness.
“ Myrtle ” : The miners who dabble freely
in cyanide, especially in the outer districts, will
have to be curbed unless Bananaland wants to in-
crease its funerals. Their chief crime is the pollu-
tion of old battery dams at which they have been
treating tailings with the deadly destroyer. Re-
cently at Clermont (Q.) only tough stomachs and
a bit of luck saved the owners of a team of horses ;
and the animals fared badly. I know of several
places in Queensland which are gaping death-
traps to the stranger who happens along. The
’possumer who uses cyanide is another fiend.
Recently along a creek at Stanwell, near Rock-
hampton, I saw enough cyanide ’possum-baits to
poison half a city. The first heavy shower would
have destroyed the watercourse for miles. And,
at present, there’s just as much chance of “ getting
at ” the ’possumer as there is of giving the water-
hole six months’ hard labor.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 13, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The town is rapidly emptying, and seaside cot-
tages are not to be got for love or money. Every-
one wants to know where the Government House
party, after it has arrived and has given its intro-
ductory reception, will hie to during the remainder
of the summer. It must hie somewhere, for there
is a Government House tradition to that effect.
Besides, the Premier seems determined to trans-
form that ancient and very unsuitable pile, the
vice-regal lodge, into the long-promised University
ere Dec. 10, which will be held as Jubilee Day.
If this is done, there is some fear that the Mac-
gregor sept may find itself obliged to camp in the
Domain while the vexed matter of house-room is
thrashed out.
The unsuitability of the old Government House
as a university can scarcely be exaggerated. It is
not built upon up-to-date lines, the drains are by
no means as Caesar’s wife should have been, the
ground room is insufficient, and the only passage
worth mentioning to its gates is along George-
street, on to which the thoroughfares of Mary,
Margaret and Charlotte streets abut. These form
the centre of the lowest part of the city, and the
appearance of the “lydies” who greet the
passer-by of an evening and the fluency
of their language are calculated to make
a crocodile blush. There is certainly one
other route —up Alice-street, but that might
almost as well be called Magdalen-street,
and quite an unrepentant Magdalen at that.
And what is not Magdalen is Tottie—which is
much the same thing—and what isn’t Tottie
is Chinaman. Quite apart from the fact that
the middle of a city on a spot surrounded by
coal wharves is not an ideal site for learned youth,
the other environments above-mentioned make the
thing absurd, unless there is a wholesale cleaning
gang got to work on a moral spring turnout. On
the other hand, the Victoria Park site is close
to the hospital, adjacent to an excellent sports
ground, and possesses fresh air galore. It is far
removed from the objectionable portions of the
city, and has, in fact, but one disadvantage—it is
not upon the river bank.
The Admiral has been paying a flying visit to
the city. He is most time doing a little cattle
work upon the Tabragalba homestead, for his
figure’s sake, but he came to town per motor
to pick a bone with President Bigge, of the
Queensland Club, on Tuesday evening. He will
hunt the happy bullock upon Tan.rookum next
week, and Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Collins will show
him how.
As the orchid is, or was, to Joseph Chamber-
lain, so the little pink flower seems likely to be-
come to Arnold Weinholt, the new and very
youthful member for Fassifern. I have seen him
in the House about a dozen times so far, and he has
never been without his little bit of pink. It
doesn’t go with his complexion, his clothes, or his
soft shirt and roll collar, but perhaps he wears it
as the knight of old bound on his helmet his
lady’s glove. Very often, I suppose, the glove
didn’t match the helmet worth a cent.
Of weddings there have been many this week.
Noel Drury and Miss Simpson, one of the
numerous Cardew clan, were among the experi-
mentalists. to the tune of white ninon tulle and
flowers. The handsome Cardew residence (Cardew
was the bride’s uncle) w'as lent for the ultimate
reception. The bridegroom was a widower. His
former experience of wedded life lasted about 10
hours, for he married his first wife, Miss Nina
Clerk, upon her death bed. That was some three
years ago.
D. R. McConnel and his energetic life partner
go hence to the land of Uncle Sam. D.R. has for
the last dozen years filled the post of Director of
Technical Education, and has done it in a manner
that reflected much credit upon this State. How-
ever, he lacked “pull” when the whole business
was taken over by the Government, and instead
of retaining the services of a man who had proved
himself a success, it put a southern person in
charge. Yet D. R. McConnel is good enough for
the Stanford University in California, whither ne
goes to a job in a month’s time.
A fearsome and unaccountable accident hap-
pened at Lennon’s Hotel on Thursday afternoon.
By some misadventure a nursemaid, who was
carrying the five-months-old daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Landre Clark, of Wolfang station, stumbled
and fell over the banisters from the top to the
ground floor. The little one was killed instantly,
and the girl, who struck the rail of the second
landing, sustained a compound breakage of the arm
and other injuries. The whole affair is a mystery,
which neither the unfortunate maid the
nearly demented mother can explain. Mrs. Clark
was Miss Rose, of Melbourne, and was returning
with her husband and the little one from a visit to
the Cup.
For pure lightness of heart in a full-grown
human, commend me to a wool-buyer. He is a
pearl of price in the art of taking the best out of
iife, irrespective of what anyone else may think
or like. He is real fond and careful of his person,
and in the matter of nourishment does himself
proud. One of the species who periodically haunts
this city hugs a thermal bottle of abnormal size to
his “ bussum,” and in the bottle reposes coffee of
just the right consistency. A fresh supply has
to be bottled for the trip out here and the voyage
back, for he has a nervous feeling that a mouthful
of anything less in accord with the traditions of
his very own Paris would cause instant death.
Another member of the tribe weeps if he is unable
to occupy the special seat at a local hostelry
which he has made his own, and, rather than
allow him to spoil the beauty of a really fine
pair of blue eyes, the proprietor resorts to all sorts
of means for the quiet removal of any casual, or,
for that matter, old and valued customer from the
special perch. Then light-heartedly the woolly-mat
expert will break a champagne glass or so upon
the dado and proceed to fill his aching void. The
accumulated band, as it travels, is a terror to the
ordinary voyager, but that is simply because
dense women cannot understand the fun of being
compelled to stand up in a railway carriage, while
one of the clan stretches himself full length upon
the seat with his entire luggage arrayed around
him. Also their limited intelligence jibs at the 18
minutes allowed for refreshments on the journey
from Sydney being absorbed by the playfulness
of the fleece-seekers. Personally I think
that the periodical arrival of the wool-buyers
gives the town a tone. If the city did its
duty it would greet their arrival with a brass
band or a gun or something.
Some pals just home from Japan with chrysan-
themums in their hair whisper a tale of a tub.
The party consisted of two shes and a he, and
after a long trail through the country, they
applied at a hotel at a place that sounds
something like Stzphrlshima, for a bath.
“Yes, they could be accommodated. The
tub would be prepared in half no time.”
So the ladies got into their kimonos and waited
the call. It came. The bath boy led them to the
bath-room door. He was surprised to find it
locked. He explained passionately. He had led
the gentleman to the honorable bath. He didn’t
dream the gentleman would shut the honorable
door. There was much bath inside—enough for
three. Then there were two hysterical laughters
and a disorderly retreat of the two ladies.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
The Courier discovered, a few days ago,
that a building boom had started in Brisbane.
This boom the Cooriee attributed to the Tory
victory at the recent elections. Unfortunately,
the Codeiee published a list of the new buildings,
and ill-natured people immediately pointed out
that the contracts for three-fourths of these had
been signed weeks prior to the recent election,
and just in that gay period when it looked as if
the Kilp-Phidston crowd was quite lost and the
reign of a Bowman Ministry was about to begin.
The progress due to Tory political victories is
mostly like that.


WEALTH IN THE FOREST LANDS.
Australia has immense forest lands in which the
finest merchantable timbers auait the woodman's
axe.
Queensland has 143,000,000 acres of wooded
lands.
Of this total 40,000,000 acres are covered with
merchantable timbers.
In other words, 62,500 square miles of Queens-
land’s territory are covered with valuable timbers,
standing in their primitive state, awaiting the
investment of capital and labor.
The merchantable timbers of Queensland occupy
an area —
As large as -f orea '
J f European Turkey.
(Portugal.
Roumania.
Switzerland, Greece and
Denmark (combined).
. f The whole of the German
~ ~ -! Empire combined, with the
t exception of Prussia.
Queensland To-Day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XLVI.
FORTUNES IN QUEENSLAND TIMBERS.
By J. D. FITZGERALD, Barrister-at-Law.
One of the things which strikes the Australian
traveller in Europe is thh sedulous care which, is
employed in the preservation of the forests. The
traveller, in passing through such countries as
Austria and Germany, sees the process of scientific
forestry in full swing. As he passes in the train
he sees on the country side the tree in all its
stages, from the seedling and the shoot to the
forest giant ripe for the axe, and then the great
logs passing into commercial use. The principles
of forestry in those countries appear to be, that
for every tree that is cut down when it is fit to go
into Commercial use, another tree must be planted.
The same rule holds good in Japan. In that
country the marvellously useful bamboo is also
cultivated upon the scientific plan pursued in
Europe.
Nature has been so lavish with forest wealth in
Australia that a lamentable carelessness has been
shown in the preservation of our forests. But
those are the older States of Australia. Take
Queensland as the State which has the largest
forest area of any of the States of the Australian
She has a total of 40,000,000 acres of
forest lands, and of wooded lands 143,000,000
HAULING TIMBER, BARRON RIVER, CAIRNS RAILWAY, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
acres. The difference between these two classi-
fications shows that the smaller numbers indicate
the extent of acreage covered with marketable
timbers. This timber is a gift of nature—one of
those prodigal gifts which Australians have found
ready to hand in almost all the sources of primi-
tive wealth. Some idea of the enormous value
of the Queensland timbers may be gained when it
is noted that the area of country producing mer-
chantable timbers occupies 62,500 square miles of
territory—a comparatively small slice of country,
it is true, being only one-tenth of the territory of
Queensland, and yet nearly as large as Korea,
larger than Portugal, as large as European Tur-
key, larger than Roumania, larger than Switzer-
land, Greece and Denmark combined, and larger
than the whole of the States of the German Em-
pire combined, with the exception of Prussia.
Hitherto the people of Australia hay,e never
quite realised the enormous value of their timbers.
Of recent years the use of timber in the rapidly
increasing paper-making industry has called atten-
tion to the matter. The American forests are
nearly used up. Ours are hardly touched. More-
over, Australian timbers are coming more and
more into demand in connection with street-
blocking and railway sleepers. We are being
“ discovered.” Everything that tends to the de-
velopment of our higher civilisation, of better
local government, of better roadways and means
of communication, and also the increasing circula-
tion of newspapers and of books, will go to
make the magnificent forest assets of Queensland
more valuable, as the years go by, than they ever
have been.
It seems commonplace now to praise our hard-
woods. Every engineer, railway builder and
architect in the world knows the qualities of our
blackbutt, tallow-wood, ironbark, spotted gum,
grey box, red mahogany, bluegum, turpentine,
CLEARING FOREST, NERANG, S. C. RAILWAY, QUEENSLAND.
Photo, by C. E. S. Fryer.
other hardwoods- Already the tests of the
stren „ t h and durableness of our timbers have
shown that we can hold our own in the markets
of the world. Contracts have been accepted for
the supply of Queensland railway sleepers for use
in South Africa. Then came orders from India
for use , the Botnbav> Baroda and Central India
Badwa y. The possibilities of a larger trade in the
export of timber developing later on is shown in
the figures which disclose the fact that in the
world’s railways there are one thousand million
sleepers used, and the annual cost of maintenance
and replacement of these is £10.800,000 per
annum. Already it is acknowledged that on the
Indian railways our Australian hardwoods have
become formidable competitors of sal, teak,
deodar and pyngado.
WOOD-CHOPPING CONTESTS, BRISBANE.— (18in, long; hewing time, 1min, 4 0scc.)
It isaswell tonote in connection with the Queen-
sland timber industry, as well as many of those
dealt with already in the course of this article,
the ceaseless care and vigilance exercised by
the governing services of Queensland in con-
nection with the tests of timbers for export,
In connection with the South African contract
the Government of Queensland gave an under-
taking, through its Agent-General in London,
that the sleepers required for the South African
railways would be inspected before being sent out
of the (State, and that the same care would be
exercised in such inspection as was exercised in
the case of timber intended for sleepers on its
own State railways. The experiment of exporting
sleepers to South Africa has proved a success, and
now Queensland is ready and willing to supply
the world with its timbers; and, apparently,
judging by the demand which is arising, the
world has no objection to being supplied by us.
But it is not only in connection with railway
sleepers, wood pavements and paper-making that
our Australian woods are used. It is the boast of
Mr. Philip McMahon, the leading authority on
forestry in Queensland, that there is hardly any
use to which timber may be put that Queensland
timbers are not suited for. He claims that the
qualities of the finest timbers in the world can be
matched in our Queensland forests, either from
the hard woods or from the soft woods. We have
our ebonies, our mahogany, our tulip and satin
woods. We can make the finest cricket bats and
the most delicate billiard cues. In fact, to take
the billiard table as a familiar illustration,
there is nothing in connection with it,
from the resilient rubber cushions to the
castors on the carven legs, the knitted
pockets, or the firm decks and sides, which cannot
be furnished from our own forests. In Queensland
we have the timbers in use for bridge building,
culvert building ; for fencing, frame and carriage
building; for naves, spokes, poles and shafts,
girders and joists. In regard to girders and joists,
it is a noted fact that ironbark is practically fire-
resisting, and stands the strain of fire better than
an iron girder. This is not a mere assertion of the
writer, but is vouched for on the authority of the
Commonwealth official Statistician. Mr. G. H.
Knibbs. Tallow-wood is used for bridge-decking
and house-flooring ; blackbutt is used for house-
building, ship-building and street-paving; grey
gum is unexcelled for felloes and spokes in coach-
building.
All our hardwoods are used in those large
mining operations which are carried on all over
Australia. Our white mahogany is suitable for
posts, poles and girders ; red mahogany furnishes
material for weatherboard houses ; grey box is one
of our most valuable and durable timbers, especi-
ally when sunk into the ground, and is the most
lasting of all for the purpose of railway sleepers,
telegraph poles, mining stopesand supports, harbor
piles, bridge girders, etc. The beautiful brush
box (tristania conferta) is in use for light tram
rails, and also for tool handles, planes, etc.
Spotted gum is of such a fibre that it may be bent
like iron, and is used in wheelwrights’ and
coachbuilders’ work, for poles, shafts, naves and
spokes, also for tram rails, ship-planking, bridge-
decking, and wood-paving. The graceful turpen-
tine, the yellow stringy bark, and the blue gum
are used in submarine work, such as piles, and
for jetties and wharfs, bridges, posts, for decking
of bridges and ships, and for coachbuilders’ work.
The mountain ash supplies sawn stuff, and splits
well into palings, shingles and rails. Then we
have the hoop pine, which supplies packing cases,
and also butter boxes for that largely increasing
trade in butter exports between the Queensland
and London markets. Nothing finer in the world
can be found than our red cedars, rosewood, red
bean, white beech; and, above all. the silky oak for
household furniture, turning, carving, cabinet
work, house-fittings, wine casks, decking, picture
frames, flooring, wainscoting kegs, buckets,
churns, gun stocks, door panels, dados, and bil-
liard tables. These are only a few of the timbers.
Take our blackwood, which belongs to the acacia
class, a strong, durable timber which is used for
furniture, billiard tables, churns, pianos, organs,
cabinet work, paneling in railway carriages,
bridge building, picture frames, etc., etc.
Moreover, when the forests of Australia are
being replaced, without doubt, we shall be able
to introduce some of the fine forest timbers from
abroad, such as Java teak, which flourishes in
Australia, where it finds a climate perfectly suited
to its growth. It must be remembered that we
are only at the commencement of the establish-
ment of our timber industry in Australia, and
especially in Queensland. In the year 1907 the
balance was in favor of imports of timbers,
dressed and undressed, to Australia of £827 as
against the exports from Australia. There is no
reason why we cannot supply our own markets,
and with our surplus supply the needs of many
of the surrounding countries, such as the Nether-
lands-India, China (a country which is almost de-
forested) and Japan. Then there is the insatiable
maw of European and American demand to be
supplied.;
The greatest Australian timber producer has
been the State of N.S.W. In 1907, the quantity
of local timber sawn or hewn in N.S.W. was
360,000,000 superficial feet; Western Australia
came next with 110,395,000, and Queensland was
third with 91,752,000. The value to N.S.W. in
1907 was one and a half million sterling, and.
although the figures are not shown, the value of
the Queensland product in the same year probably
amounted to £360,000. In this estimate I have
taken no account of such by-products as tanning
bark, of which the value of £132,000 was exported
from the Commonwealth in the year 1907, and
during a period of seven years a value of £740,000
was exported. In Queensland, the magnificent
forests have hardly been touched. During the
course of the following articles I shall endeavor to
show that there is room for an immense invest-
ment of capital and a splendid field for labor in
connection with the forest wealth of the Northern
State.


LITTLE
MOTHERS
r' i
1
1 E 5
. e
Delight in the Use of
CUTICURA
And Cuticura Ointment in the pre-
ventive and curative treatment of
cutaneous affections which torture
and disfigure little ones and make
life miserable for parents. No other
emollients so safe, speedy and eco-
nomical. Peace falls on distracted
households when Cuticura enters.
Unrivaled for preserving, purifying
and beautifying the skin, scalp, hair
and hands of all ages.
Guaranteed absolutely pure and
may be used from the hour of birth.
r.wlo. t A’ oug S out i he w ° r,d - Depots: London. 27.
Ciaerhouse Sq.; Paris, 5. Rue de la Paix; Austra-
& c „°," Sydney; India, B. K. Paul.
Calcutta, China Hong Kong Drug Co.. Japan,
Tnw1 yil Lf Lt<l i tU’ a' °' S o ' Atrlca ' Lennon, Ltd., Cape
Potter Drup & Chem. Corp.,
Bole Props., 133 Columbus Ave., Boston, Mass
Book, post-free, tells all you need
* 0 kn °w about treating the Skin, Scalp and Hair
THE
HARMONY
Price
14|6
This high-class The “Harmony” is one of
the smartest, and most popular of Ladies’ Shoes,
and is fitted with neat patent leather caps and
facings, with either pumped or welted sole.
We have this dainty shew in all sizes and
fittings, price 14/6. Postage in Victoria, 9d.:
other States, 1/- extra;
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelig-ht.’
In it our finest footwear is priced and
illustrated. Post free on application.
LEE MING’S Boot Stores,
103 Swanston St., Melbourne; 303 Chapel St.,
Prahran; 1 & 3 Errol St., North Melbourne [2
CONSULT
the Old HERBAL
SPECIALIST
for Nervous and kindred troubles which embitter life
and cause Nervous and physical breakdown. You may
receive the benefit of his long- and successful experience
in the treatment of these complaints fr.be of charge.
Address: HERBAL DISPENSARY.
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
free: to all
Ladies who lack proper BUST Development.
We will send full particulars of a valuable
reined}' which will enhance your physical
charms and bring- about that natural Develop-
ment of the BUST which all ladies desire and
all men admire.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CHANCE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATiNE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE Sold by All Chemists.
LAXA TINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
n
2&t
•PEED
«FLITE
/ T‘YTiB3
also Reliability and Resiliency—qualities
which make for the comfort of the rider.
If you want the best Cycle Tyres in every
way,
FLITES
are what you must have. This has been
proved in every race of importance run
this season.
BARNET CLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australia,
234 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY ;
289-291-293 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
And All States.
BANDSMEN NOTE!
SOLE AGENTS for
HawKes &Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD."
290 & 292 Bourke street,
OUI lUmO, Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
HEART
TROUBLE
Caused
By
FAT!
son who feels
any uneasiness
or weakness
about the heart
should lose no
time in securing
relief from their condition. Fatty degenera-
tion of the heart is the cause of many deaths.
“Fatcure”
prevents any possibility of heart disease. It
removes the fat that surrounds the heart and
liver, and gives these organs a chance to do
their work. It cures Obesity quickly, safely
and permanently. It is non-poisonous and
harmless. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE and our Free Book.
59
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Casllereagh St., Sydney.
By Appointment.
GEREBOS
SALT
GUARANTEED
PURE, WHOLESOME
AND BENEFICIAL.
Agents—Harrison c* Attwood, Sydney.
ON IHE HOP”—Cheap Edition Now On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THAT HAVE CfIUCHT ON!
They're books every Australian should
read.
They’re typical Australian from cover
to cover—foil of intense interest from
start to finish. They’re written,
printed and illustrated in Australia —
you ought to read them—they’re pub-
lished in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E. Birtles ; price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Duncan McClure, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/0;
postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Back at Our Selection, by “Steele Rudd”;
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
From Selection to City, by “Steele Rudd”;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd” ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “Steele Rudd”; price,
paper, 1/ ; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/6 ;
postage sd.
Settler and Savage, by Chas. De Boos; price,
cloth, 1/-; postage 4d.
Do., paper, 1/; postage 3d.
On the Fringe of the Never-Never, by H. K.
Bloxham ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by James Green ; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by Edward Dyson ; price,
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by 0. D. Websdale ; price, cloth, 1/-;
postage 3d. And eauallv uood
fr
books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
All Branches
and
Book-
sellers.
SUMMER SUITINGS
LATEST PATTERNS
and DESIGNS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
CALL and INSPECT or WRITE FOR PATTERNS
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the Well-Known
“ Aertex ” Cellular Shirts and Underwear
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S I
hree Witches
b CIOARITTIS
/W/fls
for
MIU
lonw
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
Business, Robbery, etc.
At byd .Kidman’s horse sale this vear the voice
of the auctioneer rasped through XI long days. In that
time 2098 horses were put up and knocked down, mostly
toS. Australian buyers, though close on 500 go to India
and other foreign parts. Kidman always congregates his
horses at Kapunda, more out of sentiment than anything
else, for the Kidman brothers sprang from there and did
their first bit of dealing in those parts. Prices weren’t
anything surprising this year; £37 10s., paid by the
Indian Government, was the top.
* • # „
They do these things better in England. At
Hastings, some weeks ago, they sentenced a gentleman
named Kelly to two months’ hard labor for the bad habit
of watering the milk he sold. They had tried two lots of
fines, but Kelly was still forgetful. Now, however, every
time Kelly sees a jug he’ll probably remember. It’s the
neatest thing in mnemonics yet judicially invented. The
man puts the watered milk in the jug. Then the Law
puts the man in the jug. Then the man realises that he
is a mug.
* * * .*.
A while ago the papers were strewn with pars,
about the fat cheques that Bananaland ’possum snarers
and poisoners were making this season ; one man, who
had been out only three weeks, came in, they said, with
£llB worth. Thereupon the old hand sniffed—he
knew. During the ’possum’s close season the
white man has to, lie low; but black brother is
allowed to hunt for food all the year round. So the
trapper has a few words with black brother before the
close season starts, and keeps him sweet with opium'and
tucker ; and black brother’s appetite for ’possum becomes
something tremendous. He becomes capable of eating
tons of’possum. Then when the close season ends the
trapper calls round on black brother for the skins, and
dumps them in at the nearest township—all as his own
getting, of course. It’s not a bad scheme for black
brother, and it’s a very good one while it lasts for fhe
cunning trapper ; but it’s going to wipe ’possum right
out if it continues, and then black brother will be hungrv
and white brother will be poor.
• » * *
London’s newest hotel (it stands where Exeter
Hall used to be—about the best site in London) vows
that it will abite the tipping nuisance, even if it can’t
slay it dead.;, Also it will actually allow a bath without
charging for it. Bed and ’‘full” breakfast are to cost
the moderate sum (for London) of 6s.—with no extras.
“ J.G.” : It is gradually dawning on Victorian
fruit-growers, fishermen, wattle-bark-strippers and pro-
ducers generally that even if the Socialism of the Labor
party is the shocking thing the House of Landlords says
it is, it can t possibly be a worse shark than the present
system of “production, distribution and exchange.” The
fruit-farmers have been bucking hard for some time, for
they have found out the vastness of the gulf between
what they get and what the public pavs.' The wattle-
bark cookies also say that, although there is less
bark than there was years ago, the prices have
beautifully diminished, yet more leather has to be
manufactured. At first the strippers cursed the tan-
ners ; but now they find that the tanners have
to pay about three times as much for the bark as the
actual producers get: so, like the fruit-growers, they
now curse the middlemen. Butter and fowl farmers are
also thinking deeply on the same subject, and apparentlv
it won’t be long before .Private Enterprise in the distri-
produce will get a collective kick from the pro-
ducers’ boot. Not long ago, so the yarn goes, a cock} 7 up
north consigned a crate of young turkey hens and a big
gobbler to a firm of middlemen for sale, and he went
down by the same train as the fowls. Quite unsuspicious,
he turned in to see how his little lot sold. Presently his
gentleman turkey was put up, and was sold for 15s. ; the
owner bought it, as he thought he could get more for it
elsewhere. The middleman didn’t know the turkev’s
owner from an ink bottle. The other turkeys were sold
for three half-crowns apiece. A few da,, later the seller
received account sales for 11 hen turks at 6s. each, less
commission and other charges. The sellers then added—
“We regret to'have to say that the gobbler was deli-
vered dead, and, of course, of no use to us. We sym-
pathise with you in the loss. Cheque for the others here-
with. Please send receipt.” The owner unshipped a
quantity of disrespectful language instead.
* * * '■ *
“ Sr ” : The family treasury suffered as a result
of the latest Business Robbery. A benign old lady hap-
pened along to the front knocker and banged heavily. In
answer to her call, the mother was advised of a raffle, Is.
per ticket, the proceeds to go to a deserving charity. We
bought a ticket. Itxvas stipulated, that the winner of
the prize, a pair of splendid pictures, should contribute
2s. 6d. extra to the good cause. A week after the benign
old party occurred again, with the glad tidings that
we had won, and the pictures would arrive by carrier
the following day. Joyfully we parted out the extra
2s. 6d. to the charity and prepared the front-room wall
for the pair of old masters. The carrier left them. They
were two small oleographs in second-hand frames, the
pair being worth, at a generous estimate, 2s. We rose to
a point of order and were guilty of unparliamentary
language. A dozen other folk in our street also won the
prizes. I reckoned that motherly person made 19s. 6d.
profit in our line, which is now the maddest alley in
Ohr.stendom.
THE SUMMONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Damn !
Word of my need, voiceless or spoken,
Word of the swift pain that jabs me,
Head, heart and soul of my song-,
Pure from the well-head of wrath and despair and the
Devil,
Nothing more,.
But full rounded and wrought in the furnace of agony—
Damn !
Damn !
I was hoeing the moist, brown earth by the succulent
cabbage
All in the blue, blue spring ;
Never a hint of disaster fell in the sunshine.
Far seemed the world that sweated under its I OU,
Interest, rent and the old white-bearded collector,
Who smiles like the patriarch Moses
And duns for the tailor.
Then he sought me—not Moses or Judas,
But just a young man with a smile.
Damn !
Damn !
I was busy and clothed in the clay of my toiling,
Yet would he see me.
Too dear and familiar his errand.
No message he sent me,
But came to me there in the garden,
Greeted me under the pine tree,
Stood in tlie chequered sunlight, and gravely tender,
All in the blue, blue weather,
Gave me the scroll that was blue with the blue of despair.
Damn !
Damn !
Ancient, inconsequent words in a jargon and jumble,
Horrible words printed fair on a common blue paper,
Typewritten figures demanding a payment, with interest
added,
Barger than Satan at auction
Would bid for my soul.
Damn !
Damn !
There is no way to get out and no entrance available.
What is the use of the thing ?
Can they,have hlood from a flint or the breeks from a
Highlander ?
Where there is naught, how should ft wisp of blue paper
Cause to materialise from the ether
Aught that hath tangible value?
Will there be cash out of Chaos or bank notes conceived
by Old Night ?
Damn !
Damn !
Thumbscrew and rack and the boot,
These are my portion ;
When it hath end it beginneth ;
When it is old it is new ; %
Better I fall as a bankrupt, borne down bv the curses of
many,
Than face that blue torment of paper
And the eloquent eyes of the beak.
Damn !
MAORIIiAND.
D. M. W.


" AWL-YOU-WANT.'*
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
|is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, r straight—l reef
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, pose tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or tine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for jd., set of 8 lor 2s. Send postil note to
STAR NOVELTY GO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
U.s.ptf
of*
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
385-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
m.
■i
m
■
are
1W
thirsty
9
try
*
glass
©
*9
of
*
©
$
LIME
JUICE
“MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
MADE IN TWO KINDS-
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth and Cast)erea<rh Streets.
Transformations from £4 4s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINCS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION .
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
rMARK
Made in
England
Underwear
AR
3avuj.
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
\f- EACH POST FREE 1/2
! Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
iVHCK SIMMONS
Sydney.
'STOREKEEPERS* roBACCOH/STS
SHOULD SERB FOR OUR TRADE L/ST
The
December
Edison Records
To-morrow all Edison dealers will have
on sale 16 Standard and 30 Amberol titles
for the December issue—all records that
keep up the high standard set by the
Edison organisation.
The Edison Concert Band, American
Symphony Orchestra and National
Military Band help to supply the music,
whilst amongst the individual contributors
are numbered Peter Dawson, Harry Fay,
Arthur Osmond, Oily Oakley, George
Formby, Eugene Jaudas, Len Spencer and
Anthony and Harrison.
Will you pop into a dealer’s and hear
some of these splendid new selections ?
It’s worth while.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
TOUR
vi
WITH
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
V
%
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more.than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system Is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS ! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and Its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
thing’s he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Dings, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no WeaKness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Dii. McLaughlin s electric belt
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worKs while you. sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. I4s price is as low as £1 in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid!, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
lilte BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CAT«3j for Free Consultation. Hours—9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlcreagh and Market Sts„ SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The McLaughlin co.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address ,
1


The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
PLAS MO IV
TUSH
Is an Unequalled Phosphatic
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD,
r Containing
The Organic Salts and Phosphorus of Milk
in a natural state of combination and in a greater degree than any
other milk product. PLASMON contains a natural sufficiency of
organic phosphorus without the need of artificial addition of phosphates.
Plasmon added to food increases the nutritive value
ENORMOUSLY. — Lancet.
Plasmon, Plasmon Cocoa, Plasmon Chocolate
. and Plasmon Biscuits.
Of all chemists, grocers and stores.
PLASMON IS USED BY THE ROYAL FAMILY.
PLASMON, Ltd., London. Australian Depot, 5 & 7 Barrack
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Truss is Useless
No,matter how long or patiently you wear a truss, it can never cure
your rupture. You simply waste your time, your strength and your money
by continuing to use it.
Thousands of people have found this to their cost, and turned with
eagerness to the only common-sense and successful treatment in the world.
You may be tired of the truss,
But the Sherman Method
will Cure Your Rupture.
It has stood the closest scrutiny of the medical profession, and is
attested to by hundreds of men and women who have been lifted from the
ranks of the hopeless into the bright sunshine of healthy living.
Here is an extract from a typical letter from a cured man :
Glebe Road, Sydney,
Dear Sir, October 1. 1909.
I thought I would write and let you know of the very satisfactory
cure I received of a rupture from your treatment about five years ago.
I was only six weeks under your treatment, and I have not had the
slightest feeling of the trouble since. I have done heavy work since then,
and am now over <35 years of age. Yours very gratefully,
(Name supplied on request).
Will YOU come and have a free consultation and see the evidence of
the worth of the treatment ?
HOURS: —Daily (Sundays excepted), 10 a.m. to 12 noon ; 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 12 noon. Extra hours : Friday evenings, 7to 9.
If you cannot call, send at once for two books containing details and
proof of the Sherman Method.
A. W. MARTIN
Sole Controller of the DR. J. A.
SHERMAN METHOD,
Dept. B. GIBBS’ CHAMBERS, 7 MOORE STREET, near the G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
<***'.% * » i
V- ' ir Vv ** *r. ’ v ?*■ &
i§Hlfe&.,rt'- >■ ■«■ v * a *■ v i
midmiumiimM
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. • in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
* -
X\.
vV
X
■*>
1
•£=
V
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10 6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Also at Comer of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletih.]
I
■c
T)
ass
BILLIARDS T°R
ISE-AOME
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to bs placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15s
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOC K<&Co.
597 GEORGE ST SYDNEY .
APtD
mtuumn*
MELBOURNE.
ANDREW McGEE
Maybe you’ve a friend in
the Old Land to whom you’d
like to send a Pipe or Shaving
Outfit.
Mails leave Sydney for London.
November 23, arrive December 24.
November 30, arrive January 2.
APPROPRIATE SUGGESTIONS.-
Gillette Safety Razor, 12 Blades, in Handsome Case. Price, 21/- and 22/6.
Auto Strop Safety Razor, 12 Blades, 25/- Packed free of charge.
A Barling London-Made Pipe, in Case, from 10/- to 30/- each.
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist & Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 Castlereagh Street, cr. Hunter Street, Sydney.
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAY.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 19
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
W
Ihe Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. \7, except fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[5
CAPELLAH.INE
THEMOUSTACHE PRODUCER
*4
\
SUCCESSFUL CAPILLARINE
The recdrd of OAPILLARTNE’S success in producing permanent
moustaches is an unbeatable one. Hundreds of men have used
it with splendid results, for it NEVER fails. Start using it now
the result will more than please you.
PRICE 10/6 a Jar,
POSTED FREE to any
Address in the World.
Craig 1 & Aitken, 654 George St, SYDNEY,
Established 25 Years.
y
WE SELL
Complete Cinematograph Outfits.
©
0
Q)
□
CD©
No matter what you want in the Cine-
matography line we can supply you—all
good, reliable qualities at bedrock prices.
Our stock is the largest in Australasia —
the newest machines, up-to-date acces-
sories, and the very finest films.
GET YOUR FILMS
AT JERDAN’S.
We have over half a million feet, of them
splendid crowd-drawing subjects, all fresh
and new, including
The Famous PATHE FILMS
at 4d. per foot,
which have just arrived.
Send for our List of Specially Priced Films
and our Free Catalogue.
JERDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.


One of the men who were representing
Victoria in London at the time tells The Bul-
letin his story of Melba’s very first appearance in
that city
•Melba’s first appearance in London was during- the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition season of 1886. Her
father, David Mitchell, was one of the Victorian Com-
missioners, and took his three daughters with him to wit-
ness the show. Nellie sang at a concert somewhere out
Kensington way, and astonished the audience by the
purity and strength of her voice. A Melbourne journalist
gave her unstinted praise in the Savage Club, then hang-
ln Lancaster House, Savoy-place, just opposite the
old Chapel Royal. Clement Scott, the dramatic critic of a
big London daily, happened to drop in, and became inter-
ested. The 41st dinner of the Royal General Theatrical Fund
was about to be held, and the musical programme was j
being arranged by the veteran composer, Wilhelm Ganz. j
Nellie consented to sing, and duly attended at the Free- i
masons Tavern, her father and the late Joseph Bosisto,
of eucalyptus oil fame, being among the’guests. Whilst
the men were dining the ladies were served with wine
arid cake in the balcony ; and after the chairman, Gus ‘
Harris, had announced the usual substantial donations to
the fund, cigars were lighted and the atmosphere soon
became as dense as a November fog. Nellie was j
down to sing the first solo after the National
Antherii. She had chosen “Sing, Sweet Bird,” Gat z
playing the accompaniment. The large assemblage wailed
expectantly, but Nellie wouldn’t come on, and her father
went out to see what was the matter. He found her
furious. “ The idea of asking me to sing before a crowd
of men smoking as though they were in a pot-house ! ” It
* ;0 ? u un **' persuasion of her father and Bosisto to
get her to remove her cloak ; but when she started to
sing a great sense of delight passed over all present.
Everybody was charmed, “ Equal to Patti at her best,”
was the joyous remark of Ganz. Later on, she sang
Gounod s “Ave Maria,” and the good impression was deep-
eriecl. Clement Scott said she had a marvellous voice,
but it required training to make it perfect. So Nellie
went away to Marchesi in Paris, and for two vears London
knew her not. Maybrick sanir “ Father O’Flynn ”at the
dmner, and Antoinette Sterling contributed “ Here’s to
the Year that’s Awa’.” .
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New Wavbaek Look von are bound to read. Is.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
lade by F. C. Calvert & Co., M anchester, Eng.
How male Deaf Ears Hear
He is wearing; the
Ear Phone. Can
you detect it?
Being’ the story of the Ear
Phone, an invisibly fitted Wire-
loss Telephone for the Ear, the
invention of Professor Edward
Hoffmann (author of ‘‘The
Sense of Hearing ”).
The book is most interestingly
written and fully illustrated,
and should be invaluable to
every deaf person who desires
to completely regain the power
of hearing. A copy sent free
on request. Address :
Professor E. HOFFMANN,
Dept. 1588,
54 Duke Street, Mayfair,
London, Eng\
The Horse says :—
“The work that really suits us best of all is
* doing nothing'; next to that, hauling a ‘Deering' or
‘McCormick* Harvester.
“The ‘old man' started out by hitching four of us to
a *Deering.' Talk about a picnic; it was all right!
It only lasted a day , though,—old ‘Boxer' gave the
show away by just walkin' along and admirin' the scenery
instead of kiddin' to do a bit for his oats.
“Next day the boss sold him and ‘Paddy'—one of the
*McCormick' team —so three of us have done the work ever
since, but the machine runs so easy that it's been a soft
snap for us.”
The Boy says: —
“Driving a McCormick’s miles ahead of going to school.
All you’ve got to do is oil up, jump on the seat, keep the horses
awake, and the machine does the rest till the grain box gets full
“ Nothing ever breaks or goes wrong; it’s the dead easiest job Ijve ever had.
“No wonder they call the ‘McCormick’ the € OK. ’ She iTall right.’’
The Boss says: —
“There's nothing to choose between a Deering' and ‘ McCormick' Har
vester; both do the best of work in any kind of crop.
“ Wonderfully light on the horses; no trouble to a team of three—
and so easy to operate that my two youngsters always work them.
“The material in them is just first-class.
“ I think it s their all steel frames that help to make
them last such a long time without repairs. W
“And as for sample! well, I've never seen anything
like the way they clean the grain—it's
simply perfect."
Ilf
STm*
(282
Thousands of Harvester owners throughout Australia confirm the above.
Send for particulars, low prices, and EASY TERMS to
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
_ _ _ _ (Incorporated)
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 17 Bank Street, Adelaide
75 York Street, Launceston, CEO. WILLS & CO., Perth, General Agents (Deering Line) fur Western Australia.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES-IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, fid. Packet of Ten, 5d
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s -Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop HandybOok, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, ilius., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Cd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Gd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAR!)*—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Flay Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datk, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easj - , Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Sklf Instructor : Evkrt Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
f adder's Physical Training, Is. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Com plaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. fISF" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tiucks with Garbs, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d uost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
&
i
V
In the preparation of Benger s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
; ... . , . [. •
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
flay mar Ret, Sydney, N.^S.W.
S ’he LEADING
HOUSE ■»*.
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
Fisbing Tacßle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
°" r (Special (Snap
No- IF.-Best Quality Fishing Nets, well tanned, fitted ready for use,
with Leads, Corks and Ropes, to sin. Mesh.
no. i2sc.-Qp arrow Catchers’ Nets,
and Pegs.
fitted complete with Ropes, Sticks
Bridles
We also carry in stock Rabbi, Nets, Fruit
Tree Netting, and all Net Sundries.
SEND FOR OUR NET PRICE LIST-POST FREE.
YOU WILL FIND
A NEW DELIGHT IN
“ WINCARNIS” AS A
SUSTAINING AND INVIGOR-
ATING BEVERAGE. TRY IT,.
ALSO WITH A DASH
OF SODA WATER—IT IS
SIMPLY PERFECTION.
THE WINE OF LIFE.
“I gave a glass of “Win-
carnis ** to a poor woman
whom the dodor said was
dying, but it restored her,
and all say I saved her life.**
—Mrs. L. A. Scott, Chilton,
Foliot, Htingerford.
•Many thousands have written like this who
have taken “ Wincarnis ” on the advice of
their doctor, and have been brought back to
health and strength.
I
kCt
0
ii
WINCARNIS
99
Nature’s Great Restorative
Refreshes and Revives the tired and exhausted System, giving Life and Vitality by Nourish-
ing the Blood. When run down, despondent, when work seems irksome, take “ Wincarnis.”
It will invigorate and tone up the jaded body, brace up the nerves, create strength and stamina,
checking deterioration, and bringing every organ to a natural state of health and efficiency.
Test “Wincarnis” now—to-day —it will be a revelation of the good “Wincarnis” can do.
A DOCTOR writes :—Dear Sirs ... I need hardly say that during the twenty years I have been in practice I have continually ordered “ Wincarnis,” and do so
daily here (Mr. is the Agent). I can positively assert I have myself ordered close on 1000 bottles, and I know of no better value for money in the market.
A few weeks ago I made a laborer here, who contracted Pneumonia, practically jump the crisis of his disease with a bottle of “Wincarnis.” We have in it not
only a stimulant, but a powerful food as well, which is easily assimilated, pleasant to take, and show results in an average of twenty minutes. I know you need
no such eulogy, but the facts remain, and with them my thanks. Yours faithfully, , M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.
Australian and New Zealand Depots :-FASSETT (SL JOHNSON, 5 and 7 Barracß Street, SYDNEY.
COLEMAN CSL CO. LTD., “Wincarnis” WorKs, NORWICH, ENG.
GOLD MEDAL FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO THE KING AND QUEEN OF SPAIN.
The Famous
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fc Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and *to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by, all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria, Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.


BAD ACCIDENT
\
V
c
M
AT FOOTSCRAY.
Girl’s Hand Caught on Rusty Hook.
The great antiseptic and healing
qualities of Rexona were amply-
demonstrated in the following
incident at Eootscray, which clearly
shows how essential it is that every
family should have a pot of Rexona,
the new Rapid Healing Ointment,
ready as first aid in case of accident.
In describing the occurrence, Mrs.
Margaret Deeis, 4 Kent Street, Foots-
cray, Vic., says :
“My daughter Kellie, aged 12
years, was jumping up to get
some meat down which was on a
hook. Below this hook was
another hook a bit rusty, which
entered the palm of her hand,
and tore it open to a fearful ex-
tent. We applied the contents
of a sample tin of your
“ Rexona ” Ointment which had
been put aside, and afterwards
purchased a large tin from Mr.
Buzza. The wound was healed
cleanly and quickly by your
ointment.”
Rexona is a reliable remedy for Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, Eczema, Pimples,
Sores, Chapped Hands, Chilblains,
Piles, and all irritations and erup-
tions of the skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores in
triangular pots at 1/6 and 3/-.
Sample Tin Forwarded Free
15 O’Connell
upon Application to Laxo-Tonlc Pill Co.,
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE RAPID HEALER
STOMACH TROUBLE
A earner’s Suffering from Nausea, Belching, Heartburn,
Headache, etc.—The Penalty of Rough Living.
a
r=
Mr. James Green, a carrier, of St. George,
■via Dailey, Queensland, tells of his suffering
from terrible stomach trouble, and his
cure by the great standard remedy, Bile
Beans, for the benefit of fellow sufferers,
. us follows: “ Being a resident of the
bush,” says Mr. Green, “and following
the occupation of a carrier, I have often
been forced to camp under my waggon, and
live on hard fare such as corned beef, soda
bread, etc., and this, combined with the
scarcity of green vegetables, had the effect
of upsetting my stomach. In addition to
this, and to make matters worse, I was
particularly partial to strong tea, and
the inevitable result was bad digestion, which
greatly played up with my health. My sleep
became disturbed, and I was troubled with
nausea, heartburn, wind, belching, occasional
headaches, poor appetite, fulness after
meals, and constipation. Knowing Bile
Beans to be the standard remedy for all these
ailments. I they proved
an efficient remedy— mv
and system, cleansing the bowels, and ffivine-
me immediate relief. The wind, nausea, headache, and other nasty symp-
toms from which I suffered, have entirely left me, my freedom from which is
solely due to Bile Beans. Bile Beans are a handy, useful medicine for those
of my vocation to carry about, as they take up little room, and are easy to take.”
WHY BILE BEANS EXCEL
therefMe thoroughly u p.to-dMe" e Th™do l TO^mere]yfu? g e“i»SVlem^ fi rMj S r < 3ief'on , ly
and leaving the patient weakened, like the out-of-date so-failed remedies of 40 or 50
years ago. Bile Beans prompt the liver and digestive organs to act in Nature’s normal
way. They produce a gentle action on the bowels, curing or preventing constim l
cleansing the stomach, and ridding the system of all impurities One Bile Bean is
one dose They can be discontinued after the cure is effected ; they are pure y vSefable
th6y do not contain any harmful drugs; and they are the standard family medicine’
Bile Beans are the
PROVED cure for bilious-
ness, headache, indiges-
tion, constipation, piles,
debility, bad blood, bad
breath, loss of appetite,
and all ailments that
owe their origin to
defective liver action.
Obtainable from all
chemists and stores at
V»j and 2/9 per box
(containing three times
the 1/1£).
tie
eans
fOR
The Horse and Cart Ferry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was old Jerry Brown,
Who’d an office in town,
And he used to get jocular, very;
And he’d go to the Shore
When they’d serve him no more,
And, of course, by the passenger ferry,
A sight on the passenger ferry.
Now this is a song of the ferry,
And a lay of the juice of the berry ;
’Tis the ballad of Brown,
Who’d a business in town,
And commenced to go down
Very slow,
Don’t you know ?
By coming home just a bit merry.
By the Drunks’ Boat—that’s right—
On a Saturday night
He would often be past being merry:
With his back teeth afloat,
On the twelve o’clock boat,
And a spectacle there on the ferry
(A picture to all on the ferry).
In the mornings, ashamed—
’Twas the last drink he blamed,
Though the first was the matter with Jerry.
With his nerve out of joint,
He’d sneak down to Blue’s Point,
And he’d cross by the horse-and-cart ferry.
Like a thief—by the horse-and-cart ferry.
But long before night
He’d most likely be tight,,
And a subject and theme for George Perry;
And he’d cross to the Shore,
Somewhat worse than before,
And a nuisance to all on the ferry ;
Singing-drunk on the passenger ferry.
And so it went on
Till his reason seemed gone,
And the Law, so it seemed, got a derry
On Brown. He went down,
And they sent him to town
One day, by “ the trap ” on the ferry—
The Government trap on the ferry.
He was sober and sane
When he came back again,
And the past he’d determined to bury—
Or, I mean, live it down—
And he crossed from the town
Like a man, on the passenger ferry.
(There were sceptical souls on that ferry.)
They say ’twas the jaw
Of his mother-in-law
Drove him back to the juice of the berry;
But he soon got afloat
On the passenger boat
Or adrift on the horse-and-cart ferry
( Wrongly called the ve-Aic-ular ferry).
The drink had him fast,
And he drank till at last
He dried up—a withered old cherry ;
And they thought him no loss
When they sent him across
In a box, on the cart-and-horse ferry—
In a low, covered trap on the ferry.
Which I rise to explain—
If the moral ain’t plain,
And if you are a cove what gets merry—
Always stick, when “afloat,”
To the passenger boat;
Or else to the cart-and-horse ferry.
Or you’ll make matters worse, like old Jerry.
But this is the song of the ferry,
And the lay of the juice of the'c^rry;
And you will not deny—
If you read by-and-bye—
That the casual eye
Of the Tight
At first sight
Misses much in the song of the ferry.
N - s - w -
HENRY LAWSON.
Mad Wool.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AUSTRALIA quickly recovered the
sheep position of 1890, and begins to
better it. Ninety-eight million indi-
viduals made of mutton, imbecility and valu-
able fluff were depastured in 1890, and by 1892
droughts had reduced them to 54,000,000. Five
years later they had increased to 88,000,000, and
now they top the 1890 figures. We beat any
nation of the world in quantities of the idiotic
baa-animal which is used for chewing purposes
and to make clothes and shoddy. We double the
number of U.S.A. flocks; we beat the flocks of
the U.K. three times over; we can beat the
united flocks of the United Kingdom, France,
Spain, Austria-Hungary, Germany, Italy, Mexico,
Canada, Bulgaria, Roumania, Sweden, Norway,
Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzer-
land and Servia. Added to the number is the
great factor of quality. Argentina has 74,000,000
sheep, but for fine wools it isn’t good enough to
oarry beer to the Australian pastoralist. These
great plains, with air mixed with sunlight and
honey—with clean, illimitable pastures free of
disease—produce the wools that the buyers and
staplers of the world quarrel for.
I heard them quarrelling the other day.
The sheep is the most imbecile of animals. I
have never known a wool incubator to have a sane
moment. When not actively insane he is im-
becile. Ewe or ram, starving wether or mud-fat
merino on the ’Bidgee in a good season—they
have always that unmeaning stare—always the
rapt gaze of the born and blighted idiot.
When I smell wool I see a jumble of scenes :
Myself as a small boy driving neep along the
Parramatta-road to G-lebe Island abattoirs, more
for the romance of movement and the delight of
dominating something—even idiotic sheep—than
for the pay. Myself as a boy of 18, but older
than my age, driving innocently across country
south of Fowler’s Gap, to be blocked by an unex-
pected wire fence; cutting that fence in all good
faith ; trying to stop a rush of frightened sheep
through the break ; and, failing in that, bidding
them go to the Devil and their unauthorised tres-
pass the strange paddock then rolling crimson
with the bloom of the desert pea. Sheep dying
of thirst on a filthy coaster in the Bight, crowded
with cargo to the funnel, sweating with the
adventurers of Coolgardie, foetid with strapped
camels ; sheep dying in that rolling immensity of
blue because of their fear of a bucket, until some
genius thought of watering them with a lemonade
bottle, which they madly fought at the first trial,
took kindly to at the second, and thereafter
mobbed and trampled on their benefactors in the
desire to be all first served.
Weary sheep bound in a cart, with the butcher
behind the unweary mob, using the knocked-tip
ones as a seat and leaving them in the aforesaid
cart all night, so that their bound feet were dead
before the morning. Sheep lying back to back
by the abattoir drain, with their legs held up in
the air in mild and ridiculous protest—waiting for
the leisurely slaughterman to cut their throats.
Sheep straggling along a Stock route after the
lambing—bleating to each other terror, affection,
resignation, welcome and farewell. Sheep in the'
hands of the “ ringer ” of the old hand-shear days,
almost too meek or too insensitive to wince when
the blade showed blood. Sheep in trucks, bear-
mg the martyrdom of eight and forty hours of
transport, concussion, hand-braking and side-
tracking.
Sheep in the city—thirst-mad sheep, drinking
from the street-channels. Small, mild, black-
faced mountain-sheep on an Italian railway in an
overcrowded truck, one standing on the fallen
body of a friend, slipping momentarily and trying
for a better hold, so that before the night is
through the flock has flayed with its cloven hoofs
the fallen. And all this murder half-suicide—
purposeless, insane.
he sheep is so insane that even after death he
maketh mad all buyers of wool. I saw a hundred
flrenchmen, Belgians, Germans, Americans and
Britons go mad the other day at a wool sale, what
time two Japs, alleged to be wool-buyers, looked
on at the alarums and excursions with the imbe-
cile stare of the sheep, his own self.
The din reached the big bar of Aarons’ Ex-
change, where even Watty Marshall’s game of
dominoes became excited by association of sound.
Manager Bill was unable to tell his story of
Dreyfus, and Robert’s literary talks with a lady bar-
tender were suspended, but recurrently these
mingled noises of the buyers of the dead whiskers
of the sheep sounded without hindrance or dis-
cretion.
At the point of entrance of the Wool Exchange
there was a despairing barrel organ of Savoy
playing dolorous music of the ’7o’s. At the second
floor the elevator jettisoned me into the theatre of
wool sales. It is a big hall, with a carved and
buttressed and coppered ceiling; its walls hung
with sage green for all its widths and a quarter of
its length. Its solemn rostrum made it a court,
and its semi-bald, be-spectacled, clean-shaven
auctioneer became a judge.
From immediately before the rostrum to the
back of the theatre numbered logos rise from floor
toroof. Tkere are two signs : “ Smoking Strictly
Prohibited ’ a joke, apparently, as almost every-
body smoked voluminously; and “ Gentlemen are
Requested to keep Silence ’’—also a joke, as all
men raved without ceasing ; raved in a mixture
of dog-barks, hysterics, and the discharge of artil-
lery, with fierce bids of “ twelvepence,” like re-
volver shots, and pompoms of “ three farthings.”
1 here were Frenchmen white-clothed and alert-
flrenehmen, with weak whiskers like unto sea-
weed, who made their bids with the barks of fox
terriers ; Frenchmen with wire beards who yapped
like collies; large Germans who bayed like mas-
tiffs; Belgians with the hoarse roar of Newfound-
lands. As soon as one lot was knocked down
they attacked the next without notice, giving the
greater disturbance to the finer and higher-oriced
wools.
The three Japs present, trying to look impas-
sive, succeeded only in looking stupid. The Japs
buy the lowest grade of wool for which there is
not fierce competition, but mostly they sit there
saying nothing while Britain, France, Germany
and Belgium fight and rave for the finest fleeces.
Ihen out of that tremendous pandemonium comes
a battle of alertness—a tournament of quick wits.
There are some fine Gallic faces among these com-
mercial and methodical madmen who can become
hysterical for a ha’penny, and sane again in an
instant callous to the low grade, mad for the fine
wool.
Ihe auctioneer, calm to all appearances, but
probably secretly bustling the buyers, opens his
mouth to say “ 41 ” or some such innocent state-
ment of fact, and immediately Hell breaks
loose :
“Tenpence!”
“ Halef-halef ! ”
“ Y-tre-y-tre ! Y’tre, y’tre, y’tre ! ”
“ Yah 1 ” ’ J
“ Leven—boo ! ”
“ Halef ! Halef—hoo ! ”
“ Hoo-hoo—Y’tre—y’tre— y’tre ! ”
“ Zwelf ! Zwelf! 800 ! ”
“Deux! Y’tre—y’tre 1 ”
“ Hoo’ boo ! Yah ! dreizehn—yah ! ”
Somebody says with the tone of a Mauser rifle
a word like “Pobst,” and strong men sob because
the lot is knocked down. And yet there are
other sounds like these. There is the noise of the
firing party shooting Marshal Ney mixed with the
roa,r of the lions in the Zoo at dead horse time
and the actual bids of tenpences but dully heard I
under the animal roarings and the artillery. The
actual sight of the sale heightens the feeling that
!u If y S n 0 commerce, only the recrudescence of
the first Revolution during the Terror The
Japs increase the belief. They do not bid-merely
;? ok ?u Upi £ and tak , e notes - It may seem ,to them
that they have tumbled on to a white ma,n’s plot
against the Chrysanthemums, and they take notes
o. much misinformation for the comfort of the
brown men who sit in Tokio and hatch plots.
It is the Jacobin Club in insurrection, the
Assembly denouncing the Girondists, the revolted
Mountain accusing 1 Robespierre.
The Incorruptible stands in' the auctioneer’s
rostrum and says something about a lot of 20
bales. Germans rise and indignantly denounce
him, pointing at him with accusing hand, charging
him with zwelfpence ; a wild French citizen with
the one gesture bids a halfpenny more and seems
to be demanding 100,000 heads. b
It is but justice that the wool of an imbecile
fnsanhy. 10Uld f ° Ught f ° r amid temporary
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


THAT ONE WEAK SPOT!
Right in the Small of the Back.
A bad back is Nature’s signal of distress, a call for help from the
kidneys. The aching tells of dangerous congestion that robs the
kidneys of their blood-filtering power, or painful, wasting inflamma-
tions. There is immediate need for Doans Backache Kidney Pills
to relieve the pain and heal the diseased kidneys, to ward off more
fatal and painful disorders. Learn to keep the kidneys well, Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills will do it for you. Grateful residents of
this city testify. Their statements prove it to you.
SYDNEY PROOF.
&
Sr
V
VJT-
"Every picture
tells a story."
FROM REDFERN*
Mr. James Higgins, 96 Great Buckingham Street, Redfern, Sydney, says:—“Some
time ago I was taken very badly with kidney trouble. I consulted three doctors, and
underwent treatment, and each one, failing to do me good, advised me to go into the
hospital for an operation. They said my case was almost hopeless, and that an opera-
tion was my only chance, as one of the kidneys was diseased. I took medicines of all
sorts ; everything failed, and I was in such pain that I did not care if I died. I had
severe backache, giddiness, headaches and scalding urine. The day was appointed for the
operation when a friend asked me if I had yet tried Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. He
told me he knew of a man who was as bad as I was and had been cured completely by
these pills. I postponed the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills. A fortnight later I returned to work, and the men there could not
believe that the change they saw in me would ever have been possible. There is no
doubt it is wonderful.”
Six years later, Mrs. Higgins says“My husband has been free of every symptom
of kidney trouble ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him six years ago.”
FROM BALMAIN
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham Street, Balmain, Sydney, says:—“l used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they worked a miracle in my case. I
had been under three doctors at different times, but their treatment did me no good.
I used to be so bad that I would have to be carried home on a cart if an attack came
on when working in the street. Sometimes I have been taken to the hospital when one
of these bad attacks came on. I suffered with a kind of biliousness and vomiting, my
secretions were very bad ; I could never bend my back or move at all when I had a bad
turn. The people at the hospital gave me medicines and recommended rubbing in
liniments, but it was of no use ; they did not benefit me. I saw an advertisement for
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and procured this remedy. I only took one box, and
was cured. When I finished them I started work, and have worked ever since.
These Pills cured me after years of suffering, and the relief was instantaneous.”
Mrs. Smith says, nine years later “My husband has had wonderful health since
he used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I am convinced that he owes his life to this
remedy. He is now so well, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PIUS
Price 2s. 9d. per bottle.
All Chemists and
Storekeepers.
FOSTER-McCLELLAN CO.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Lost Boat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
USUALLY on Sunday nights I hear a
faint shout in my dreams of “ Any more
for Sydney?” Then there is the sleep-
muffled crash of the gang-plank being dashed
down, the clang of the last ferry’s engine-room
gong, and the soothing sound of the propeller
churning away into a sea of silence. When it has
quite gone I turn over luxuriously and fall asleep,
wondering what benighted wretch is standing
breathless on the wharf and staring hopelessly
after the lost boat. Last Sunday night I, myself,
was the starer. I missed the last boat for Mosman
by several hundred yards, and when I had
watched it carefully out of Sydney Cove I ap-
plied for spiritual guidance to the turnstile opera-
tor. He said that the next Milson’s Point ferry
would cross at 11.30, and went on counting
money in a calm, dispassionate way. I stood
outside the dimly-lighted wharf, and exam-
ined the streets to see what else besides
myself was out at that hour. Five couples, two
policemen, one cabman, four tram-men and my-
self were the visible population of Sydney, and
they all seemed tired. The horse in the cab
seemed more weary than any other of us ; he
leaned against the shaft as if he didn’t care
whether anyone hired him or not. I was thought-
fully contemplating the horse when the starting-
bell interrupted my meditations. I rushed and
got on board the boat just as the deck-hand un-
chained it from the pontoon. Whilst engaged
cross-examining the navigator as to the most
likely road to lead to Mosman at that time of
Sunday, a hand was placed on my shoulder and a
Breath conveyed the words : “I warrer go Mos-
man ; we’ll go t’gether, my fren’.”
I pushed the Breath back to his seat and told
him I was a very fast walker.
He seized my hand and shook it. “Glad t’
meet v’, Walker,” he said. “My name’s
Htorpl’s’m.”
I told the deck-hand to stop explaining for a
minute and turned sternly to the Breath. “Say
that name again.”
“ Storpl’s’m.”
“ Spell it.”
“ How the devil can 7spell it?”
“ Well, say it agdin!”
* ‘ Storpl’s’m. ”
“ It can’t be ! ”
“ But I tell yer it is ! My mame’s Stohpl’s’m.”
Further conversation was stopped by the arrival
of the boat at Milson’s Point. There I made an
attempt to desert the Breath. However, he
caught me up and insisted on me taking his arm.
We walked unsteadily up the hill according to the
directions given by the deck-hand, and, when the
tram line squirmed away from us up a side street,
we continued straight on in the full and certain
hope of meeting it again further on. We walked
on and on. The night was warm and the hills
rose one behind the other. Perspiration trickled
down my neck, and Storpl’s’m muttered to him-
self and leant on me heavily. The moon swam
slowly up into the sky over the hills and looked
down on us curiously.' Storpl’s’m stood still and,
peering about, growled, “ Where’s that damn
tramline go’ to? ”
I said, “ Come on ; it’s waiting for us further
up.”
“You said that before,” he growled as we
stumbled on.
After we had trudged up fifteen hills we found
the rails gleaming coldly in the moonlight and
lying down flat on the road as if they were tired.
I restrained Storpl’s’m from following the track
that led back to Milson’s Point, and turned him
towards Mosman. Then we walked on and on,
and by-and-bye we heard a furious banging of
timber. Storpl’s’m said it was a wife-beater at
work, and I had to drag him away from a lighted
bakehouse where a lonely baker was making a
row with two boards. We walked on and on with
the smell of fresh bread in our nostrils and the
far-off barking of watch-dogs in our ears. The
tramline wandered aimlessly about as if time were
no object, and a multitude of distant clocks
boomed one. The harbor lights twinkled and
gleamed far below and stretched wavy legs
of flame out over the glassy water. The moon
climbed a bit higher and looked after us till our
shadows lay down in front of us and yawned.
And still we walked on—Storpl’s’m and I—in
silence and perspiration, smelling the fresh-baked
bread and listening to the dogs. A mile or so
more and Storpl’s’m burst into indignant speech :
“By God, I hate dogs ! D’ you own dog?”
“No.”
“ Tha’s ri\” he sighed, and clutched my arm
approvingly.
We tramped on, arm in arm, and our footsteps
echoed back at us from dead walls and side streets
until it seemed that Two Others must be approach-
ing. But the sound always died as we passed the
wall or the street, and we walked on . . . and on.
* * * •
The musical sound of a dray-horse’s iron shoes
on asphalt woke me from my doze against a tele-
graph pole. I took off my hat and tried to think
when I had lain down—and why. I could not.
Somewhere about a town hall clock struck two,
and it sounded remorselessly late—as if the bell
were cold. I arose and continued my homeward
way. I don’t know what became of Storpl’s’m. I
don’t think I could have dreamt him. Still, I
must admit, he doesn’t sound probable.
KODAK.
Possessed of a Devil.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
8 ° 1 *
up to-night. Have a light tea and then
-L. l fc ake an easy walk round Mrs. Mae-
quarie’a Chair. Night fine and cool. American
a• b 'r° l j? h, -rz **,rr ,“ ke
them. Crew of 11,000 men what a lot of sleep
those ships will hold to-night. Meet an acquaint-
ance. Quiet walk. Spend an hour in club read-
jne room • then home. Bed at eleven. Room
™ . i* d lld - aoo
fl uiet and dark. Fee com .
worries nil. Making a living and prospects good,
No vaulting ambitions that o’erleap themselves,
Had t h em once , but the little devil who lives on
, f Btole away my vision splendid, years
Ul * _ . J J / .
ago. I am getting drowsy and hear twelve eing
chimed in muffled tones by the big clock. A
cloud passes over ray brain. lam going to
s-l-e-e
“ WAKE UP ! ” shrieks the little devil; “ this
is Thursday.” Back to the realities again. Now
why was it necessary to be roused because of
Thursday ? lam not under sentence of execution
for this morning, nor am I to be married, or
elected to Parliament in the early dawn. Why
did you do it? Toss a little. Growl a little.
Haven’t yet fallen to self-pity. Settle to the fine
art of wooing sleep. Mentally repeat ‘‘ Marmion.
No use. Apply the old prescription. One sheep
is over, two, three . . . eleven hundred and thirty-
f-i-v
“ You’re going to sleep! Wake up!’ \Vith
muttered blessings on my Old Man of the Sea, I
do his bidding. WMk the floor for half an hour.
Re-make the bed. Get in it. Now, I know that
if I lie on my left side for 10 minutes, I will be
somnolent, and that if I can, in the last
moment of consciousness, turn’ over without
rousing myself, I shall sleep. I know this
because I have done it seven times since
1898. But I must not delay the turning
over. Try it accordingly. Eight minutes. Bea-
tific vision of coming sleep. Will turn in another
five seconds —in one s-e-c-o-n —Thump ! With a
heart shock that seems to lift me to the ceiling
and shake the room, I find myself sitting gasping
on the bedside with the blood pulsing through my
brain as though driven by a dynamo. My flesh
quivers like jelly, and over the blood-roar in my
ears I hear the strident laugh of my little devil.
“You didn’t turn soon enough,” says the devil.
Wrap myself in a cold, wet towel and walk the
room some more. It is bitter cold. Wrap a rug
round me outside the aforesaid towel, light the
gas and read Omar. I don t think Omar slept
over-much. The old fellow is very dear to me,
for he says the things that I have been conscious
of feeling o’ nights. Lean Cassius too. Did he
write anything? Would that he had, for I know
I could read it understanding^.
Muse awhile on the defence question and Mills
grounds of disbelief. Then to bed again. “ Atten-
tion is the will directing the intellect into some
particular channel and keeping it there.” Where
did I read that ? I will sleep. I will go to sleep.
I will drowse. I will ... The cursed imp yells :
“ You’re forgetting to will yourself to sleep!”
Back to the world in an ecstasy of rage. Remem-
ber a poem I learned in my school days. It s in
an old National School Board Reader. Must be
a hundred vears since I read it. No. Can’t be,
I’m only 33. Mental calculation. Average man
sleeps eight hours. I average four. Should have
died or gone to an asylum years ago. Return to
the calculation. My age is my conscious life.
During the last 10 years I have been conscious
14,600 hours more than the average man, therefore
lam. . . Resign the problem. What did that
old poem say ?
Sail nor keel nor helm nor oar
Need I, ask I, to explore
Thine expanse from shore to shore.
I go a voyage of the mind. Newcastle, Rio,
Naples, Cootamundra. Pass them in review.
Rome—home of Caesar and Nero. Goths, Va,n-
dals, Attila, Genghis Khan, hordes of Asia,
White Australia, Henry Lawson, great inland
Australian Silence, flies, heat, windless arrested
emotion, fatigue, drowsiness
“ Pktozakk !” shrieks my incubus, and back I
come to the conscious world again. Now, who or
what is Petozark ? It isn’t Greek or Latin.
Sounds like the owner of a fish-shop. Petozark ?
Fiends of Hades ! It’s the name on a heating
stove we had in a Hawkesbury camp. s?n|y re
the infernal appellation once, and a .
years ago. Why, oh why, did you wake me witn
The big clock strikes five. It’s dark and cold,
vet it’s time forme to be up and about,
that well, for 10 years have been my tutor, a™
the day’s work, I shall sleep six hours sev
the gods are good. It is still written .that the
third night shall be so. Some thirdl night per-
haps will be like the other two, and then I snail
be freed from the little devil for ever.
VIKING.
Exiles’ Land.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
STRANGE land of a weird aggregation of
more or less tangible hells.
Where the zephyrs at even come laden
with only the cainel-teams smells,
And shadowless, slumbering silence, unchallenged,
eternally dwells.
Here in the heart of the Distance no old city
custom controls
Men who have followed Life s mazes to shifting,
indefinite goals—
Men who have gambled their fortunes, and men
who have squandered their souls !
Here on the pads of the camels, afar from the
sirens of Bourke,
Journeys the Silent Procession unceasingly quest-
ing for work—
White men and brown men and black men—native
and Afghan and Turk.
Where only the wrecks and the failures—the
utterly fast and the slow ;
Where, grieving, the exiles dishonored of Eastern
Society go— ■'
The home of “Unfortunate Beggar,” “Mysteri-
ous Fellow ” and co.!
Here in the land where Mahommed has fashioned
a roadway afar.
Through spaces nocturnal where only the sand
and the spinifex are,
And pilots his ship of the desert all night by the
glint of a star.
And out on the path to the Sunrise run ribbons
of steel for a sign
That yours are the mirth and the music, the
revelry, women and wine ;
But sandscape and silence and sorrow ah,
these I shall write of as mine !
Infinitudes drear, where are buried the loves that
were false from the first;
Dominions of mad recollections that torture like
vipers accurst;
Environed by numberless sheols of sleeplessness,
hunger and thirst.
Strange land of a weird aggregation of more or less
tangible hells ,
Where the zephyrs at daybreak come laden with only
the camel-teams' smells ,
And shadowless , slumbering silence , unchallenged,
eternally dwells.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


“Having held a position as field umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
rather severe training, my; con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The.tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
AYER’S 1 arsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Ayer's Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., XT. S. A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
ca3jra«K«tßssa»rs
CUSTARDI
Bird’s
Custard With Sroit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
cither hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
The Standard Remedy 'which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
Tn use since 1596.
cures
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aflk your chemist, for its history—the book is free—or -write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. Loudon, Eng.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEARNE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
The bulletin post cards-n 6 w
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
fcdJBEBS and
ICOPAIBA.
® Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
48
in
mi)
Each Capsule bears the name 2®
HIED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
7 eston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
et of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
ewspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
M.I
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
.
Prices in
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/*
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Mclb.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
Agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Well Regulated fa rallies
are fully alive to the importance of being prepared for those troublesome
attacks of Indigestion and kindred ailments common to all, and of effectively
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable remedy immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine, a box of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
distressing disorders as Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in general,
and Constipation, it is ever the wisest and most satisfactory course to
Jake
Beecham’s Pills. The remedial properties of these pills, however, are not
limited to the cure of digestive troubles alone, but exercise a specific and
beneficial influence upon the nervous system. Well regulated families are
aware that there is no finer tonic, nor any more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
use of
Becchain’s pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price l/Il (56 pills) <£ 2/9 (168 pills).
-i.. """Tl
m
SNd
%
,v p
t- • \
II
Electric Light Supplied
Free by the Wind.
The STEEL WINGS WINDMILL Co., Ltd.,
BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY,
are now prepared to supply
ELECTRIC LIGHTING PLANTS Complete,
driven by a
“Steel Wings” Windmill.
in sizes from 10 lights and upwards.
The whole installation is governed by an
automatic instrument, and skilled attention
is unnecessary.
The Light produced is Brilliant, Steady,
Safe.
It costs nothing to supply, and the price
of an outfit is moderate.
Write for particulars to Dept. C.
fVitchley Parker’s
** Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Tiiihaiilt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co,,
214 George Street, Sydney.
S’! Britisb=flustra!asian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
♦ in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kiugsway),
LONDON, W.C.
Price
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring- this business
to u close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£0 10s. Sale Price.. .. .. £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hannnerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .. £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine andcleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. ' .. .. £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or" Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns.and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Pros, Is.
Stamp far Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
AQ
honestly and without charge.
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
S.H.HENSHALL,
Regd. Chemist,
by Examination


These Are For You!
. You’ll want a good pair of boots or shoes
if you intend to do well at cricket this season.
Why not buy where quality
is always assured —at
Perdriau’s?
“NATIONAL” CRICKET
BOOTS for use on matting' wickets.
They are made of white canvas,
with leather insoles and white
rubber soles. Men’s, 7/6; Boys’ 6/6.
WHITE CANVAS SHOES for
players on turf wickets. Treble
leather soles, extra leather insoles,
lined, and with or without
spikes, tl/9. The same in Buck-
skin, 18/9.
Send for the Spring Cata-
logue if you would like to see
other styles.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.,
“The Best House for AU-Rubber Goods,"
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEENAN 8 FROUDE LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS OF
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR MINES,
HAULAGE and WINDING PLANTS,
WINCHES, THE “ SCHIELE ” MINE FANS.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney,
ICK’S PATENT
ELTING.
TRADu
MARK
The STRONGEST and most, EFFICIENT yet produoed
Every Belt, GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Gd ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
The beverag'e
that benefits.
At all times
asK for and obtain only
MoINNGS BOBBIE INDICATOR.
“McINNES DOBBIE INDICATORS
FOR STEAM, GAS or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted by British Admiralty, and used by the
Largest Power Users of the World.
“SENTINEL”
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
AIR COMPRESSORS
STEAM, BELT OR ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
S3NION3 Q33dS HOIH
Simple, Double or Triple Act-
ing, with Forced Lubrication.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
m
m
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE
(W.A. excepted)—
E.S. & A. Bank Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
MINING REQUISITES
of all Descriptions.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES
and ORDERS along for
SPARE
Flour Milling Machinery.
Cement Maki
(3236
\S22I
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
162 Clarence
SYDNEY
street,
■
Postal Address:
CLP.O. BOX 1629,
SYDNEY.
’Phone 1390.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Office i Mutual Life Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
.
iSSs
“MINE SMELTER”
llSfc'-
r
E 9
. m
AIR (HAND) HAMMER DRILLS
and for Priees and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your Inquiries.
m
tt
AUSTRALIAN FILTER
r zac
H
SECTION.
FOUNTAIN FILTER.
Approved by the N,S.W. Board of Health
For use in Factory, Laboratory, Hospital and Home .
PRICES from 12/6 to £3O.
The ABBOTT FILTER is GUARANTEED GERM PROOF, and is a sure
PREVENTIVE of TYPHOID FEVER and all Water-Born Disease .
/• ' :
Manufactured by MAY WE SEND YOU A CATALOGUE 1
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
263 George Street, Sydney
486 Collins Street, Melbourne
