

df
_U_LLi W -tLJ.'u ,55-
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining, Requisites.
S&klU .§>o&)x
SOLE AGENTS
Jeffrey
Labor Saving Appliances.
See Wild Cat Column.
Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
iam Street, Melbourne.
HOBART.
(jadley’s Orient ptel
r
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Svdiie y
*
" Take it back,
I must have-
MUTTON’S
Fine Apple Brand
*
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
Why should we rehearse
In stammering Verse,
What pretty-one knows
In epic and prose?—
That
Honey Kisses
Make lovers of friends,
And friends of foes.
a//, IdalXvui fc£u4(u u se#t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
Contractors for the Erection and Complete Equipment of Generating Stations for Light, Power and Traction.
Manufacturers of Dynamos, Motors, Switchboards, Cables, etc.
THE INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA-PERCHA AND TELEGRAPH WORKS COMPANY LIMITED
(THE. SILVERTOWN RUBBER. CO.),
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
BENSDORPS
I
fs
is the Queen of dl Cocow
| Arom^StreRflthfrPurity:
unket,
TABLETS,
»
sj-3 ia vx
linn
'SfEISMJL
The building review of
the year shows a great
increase in flat roofs.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
MAL-
THOID flat roofs have
been the cause of this.
tea
6€
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers- SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia ©/ Refrigerating' and Ice«MaKing' Machinery.
HELIDON SPA WATER
Helidon Spa is development of higher civilisation
and more perfect knowledge of human system.
GOLLIN & CO. s
Agents,
The Bulletin
Vol. 30. —N0. 1509.]
[Thursday, January 14, 1909.
P o-istered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


rgre Robertson & Co- Prop. Ltd.,
New Books, including: those reviewed on this Page.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET.
SYDNEY.
Benson, R. H., The Conventionalists, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Teuley, Inner Life of the Navy, 12s 6d, postage 9d.
Hackenschmidt, The Way to Live, 3s, postage 4d.
Davies, Bridge Construction, 14s, postage Sd.
Parker, Highways and Byways of Surrey, 6s, postage 6d.
Hearne, Aerial Warfare, 9s, postage Bd.
Fowler, Socialism in Local Government, 6s, postage 6d.
Lawrence, Masonic Jurisprudence, 5s 6d, postage 6d.
Tucker, Prof.,,Natural History ®f Language, 12s6d, p. Is.
Wells, First and Last Thing's, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Wells, War in the Air, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Gray, Philanthropy and State, 9s, postage Id.
Van Dyck and Da Vinci, “Masterpieces in Color” Series
each with 8 colored plates, Is 9d postage, 3d each. ’
Simmons and Appleton, Soap Manufaeture, 10s, post 6d.
Clay, Origin of the Sense of Beauty, 7s, postage 6d.
Squire’sCompaniontoßritish Pharmacopaeia, ’08, 16s p. is
Stone, Studies in the American Race Problem, 7s «d, p. Bd.
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.’
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro longed
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung:.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
sdf
Selti by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUBSBN’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
The Flying Machine
HGr. NV ELLS refuses to be pigeon-
• llole d; he insists on being
several persons at once—novel-
ist, socialist, philosopher, scientist, ro-
mancer, and realist; with an equal
facility he turns out romances, scientific
prophecies, love-stories, socialistic trea-
tises, and philosophic analyses. So
heie we nave him in two books addressed
to two distinct audiences; in the
first, he investigates the possibilities of
warfare in the air—a subject made to his
hand, and in the other he investigates his
own interesting self.
V/
In The Tf ar m the Air (Bell) the reader
who does not know Wells would expect
merely to find an exciting account of the
military airship in action ; but the wiser
reader will look for something graver than
a mere romance of the immediate future.
So he will not be surprised when he finds
that herein Wells subordinates his account
of aerial warfare to its inevitable conse-
quences. In his consideration of the air-
ship he sounds a startling note of philo-
sophic doubt. Is this progress with which
we are so familiar bound to keep on?
Are the foundations of the modern world
securely based? Is there not a proba-
bly of a general break-up? Is the
civilisation of the twentieth century any
more secure from destruction than was the
civilisation of the Roman Empire ? Is
material progress, the sole sure thing we
have, a sufficient stay against a sudden
convulsion ? In our devotion to mechani-
cal invention have we not neglected the
worthier, securer factor of moral advance-
ment ? In short, triumphant on the roof
of our gorgeous edifice of material pro-
gress, are we Safe ?
“This here Progress,” said Mr. Tom
Smalhvays, “ it keeps on.
You d hardly think it could keep on,”
said Mr. Tom Smallways.
And in The War in the Air Wells
adumbrates the Great Collapse to which
this Progress is almost inevitably tend-
ing. Characteristically he takes for his
hero, not the handsome youth of the
usual romanticist, but another Kipps.
Bert Smallways was a vulgar little
creature, the sort of pert, limited soul
that the old civilisation of the early
twentieth century produced by the million
in every country of the world. He had
lived all his life in narrow streets, and be-
tween mean houses he could not look over,
and in a narrow circle of ideas from which
he could not escape. He thought the whole
duty of man was to be smarter than his fellows
—get his hands, as he put it, “on the dibs,”
and have a good time. He was, in fact, the
sort of man who had made England and
America what they were. . . . He was a mere
aggressive and acquisitive individual, with
no sense of the State, no habitual loyalty,
no devotion, no code of honor, no code even
of courage”
And he puts Bert Smallways into the
midst of the general smash-up. By a
curious adventure, Bert is carried off to
Germany in a balloon which belonged to
the inventor of a real flying-machine,
something in the shape of a wasp. On
being compelled to descend in the midst of
Germany’s huge aeronautical park, he is
mistaken for the inventor and carried off
in the German air-fleet on its attempt at
the conquest of the United States. The
Germans depended chiefly on immense
navigable balloons j and after assisting
in sinking the American Atlantic
they secure the surrender of New York
by a threat of bombardment.
\t>
_ But here the difficulty of conquest by
airships becomes apparent. They could not
descend to occupy the surrendered city.
From above they could inflict immense
damage j they could reduce any organ-
ised Government to a capitulation in the
briefest space j but how could they
reckon with an undisciplined and raging
people ? The result was inevitable. The
people refused to acknowledge the official
surrender, and managed to capture and
destroy one of the airships. Then there
was nothing left for the helpless Germans
but massacre.
ISew York was the first of the great cities
of the Scientific Age to suffer-by the enormous
power and grotesque limitations of aerial
warfare. She was wrecked, as in the previous
century endless barbaric cities had been
bombarded, because she was at once too
strong to be occupied, and too undisciplined
and proud to surrender in order to escape
destruction. .. . The Prince directed the
air-fleet to move in columns over the route
of Broadway, dropping bombs. And so our
Bert Smallways became a participant in one
of the most cold-blooded slaughters in the
world s history, in which men who were
neither excited nor, except for the remotest
chance of a bullet, in any danger, poured
death and destruction upon homes and
crowds' 1 below. ... As the airships sailed
along they smashed up the city as a child
will shatter its cities of brick and card.
Below, they left ruins and blazing conflagra-
tions, and heaped and scattered dead ; men,
women, and children mixed together, as
though they had been no more than Moors,
or Zulus, or Chinese.
Exit New York —“ an ant hill kicked
to pieces by a fool. ”
W
But suddenly this grandiose dream
of conquest by the German Napoleon
is dwarfed into a mere filibustering
expedition by the arrival in America of
the Asiatic air-fleet, thousands strong. As
one of the characters explains :
“ But that was only the beginning. Our
start’s been like firing a magazine. Every
country was hiding flying-machines. They’re
fighting in the air all over Europe—all over
the world. The Japanese and Chinese have
joined in. That s the great fact. They’ve
pounced into our little quarrels. . . . The
Yellow Peril was a peril, after all ! They’ve
got thousands of airships. They’re all over
the world. We bombarded London and
Paris, and the French and English have
smashed up Berlin. And now Asia is at us
all and on top of us all. It’s mania. China
on the top. And they don’t know where
to stop. It’s limitless. It’s the last con-
fusion. They’re bombarding capitals, smash-
ing up dockyards and factories, mines and
fleets.”
In fact, every nation had its own pet
secret airship waiting for the chance of
war; and in a week they are all at it,
smashing, smashing. For an airship
could be put together in a fortnight.
China was not exempt from the general
smash-up, for a British air-fleet wiped
out Pekin. And so the game went on.
il?
The air-admirals avoided joining
battle, for airships were comparatively
ineffective against each other owing to
their inability to carry anything but & the
lightest of arms. Instead of fighting
each other, they went off and wiped out
each other’s cities. . It was less trouble.
And aerial warfare was, while enormously
destructive, entirely indecisive. And it
had this unique feature, that both sides
lay open to punitive attack. There was
no “ seat of war ” to which the operations
could be- confined.
A having outnumbered and overwhelmed
B, hovers, a thousand airships strong, over
his capital, threatening to bombard it unless
B submits. B replies by wireless telegraphy
that he is now in the act of bombarding the
chief manufacturing city of A by means of
three raider airships. . . . The war becomes
perforce a universal guerilla war.
It was the dissolution of an age, the col-
lapse of the civilisation that had trusted to
machinery, and the instruments of its de-
struction were machines. But while the
collapse of the previous great civilisation,
that of Rome, had been a matter of cen-
turies, like the aging and dying of a man,
this, like his killing by railway or motor-car,
was one swift, conclusive smashing and an
end.
vl/
The end is “ The Great Collapse.” The
beautiful and intricate pyramid of modern
civilisation, carefully balanced upon its
point, tipped -over. That was all. Wells
is careful to point out that'the twentieth
century civilisation was a stage in evolu-
tion never reached by the world before,
an exception to the main trend of his-
tory. And people expected this extra-
ordinary condition to continue inde-
finitely, simply because it had gone on for
a mere three hundred years. And in Well’s
mind, the credit system of the world,
resting on an unsubstantial tradition of
the worthiness of gold, was almost fan-
tastically unstable.
Just as the once independent dukedoms of
France had to fuse into a nation, so now the
nations had to adapt themselves to a wider
coalescence. A saner world would have per-
ceived this patent need for a reasonable
synthesis, would have discussed it temper-
ately, achieved and gone on to organise the
great civilisation that was manifestly possible
to mankind. The world of Bert Smallways
did nothing of the sort. Its national Govern-
ments, its national interests, would not hear
of anything so obvious ; they were too sus-
picious of each other, too wanting in generous
imagination. They began to behave like ill-
bred people in a crowded public car, to
squeeze against one another, elbow, thrust,
dispute and quarrel. Vain to point out to
them that they had only to reax-range them-
selves to be comfortable. Evex'ywhere, all
over the world, the historian of the early
twentieth century finds the same thing, the
flow and rearrangement of human affairs in-
extricably entangled by the old areas, the
old prejudices, and a sort of heated, irascible
stupidity; and everywhere congested nations
in inconvenient areas, slopping population
and produce into each other, annoying each
other with tariffs and evei'y possible commer-
cial vexation, and threatening each other
with navies and armies that grew every year
more portentous.
So with the outbreak of a world-wide
war comes financial ruin, famine, death,
and then the plague. And the world, with
all its cities in ruins, goes back to primi-
tive conditions. And Bert makes his
way back to barbaric Britain and gets his
girl. But he has a rival, the leader of a
gang of bullies. Bert disposes of him by
the simple expedient of shooting him.
He went out into the passage rather
slowly, and with the careworn expression of
a man who gives his mind to a complex and
uncertain business. He opened the front
door.
He asked very simply, and, pointing to
the foremost of three men, “ That ’im ?. . .
Sure ? ” and being told that it was, shot his
rival instantly and very accurately through
the chest. He then shot Bill’s best man
much less tidily in the head. . . .
So far things had gone well.
It became evident that if he did not go
into politics at once he would be hanged as
an assassin.
He accordingly went to the rest of the
gang in the village pub, and invited
them, with a casually held revolver, to
join a “Vigilance Committee ” which he
and his friends (though he had none)
were forming.
Some one spoke of Bill.
Bills dead,” said Bert. “I jest shot
’im. We don’t need to reckon with ’im.
’E’s shot, and a red-’aired chap with a squint,
Vs shot. We’ve settled up all that. There
ain’t going to be no more Bill, ever. ’E’d
got wrong ideas about mai-riage and things.”
That carried the meeting.
With an equal vividness Wells tells
of Bert’s astonishing adventures with the
German Napoleon on Goat Island at
Niagara lalls after the big Asiatic-
German air battle, and it is by means of
this realism that he emphasises his moral
of the horror and uselessness and cost of
war. The book will find three publics—
the reader of sensational stories, the
reader who is fond of humor, the reader
who has begun to think. Wells shows
no sign of falling off, despite his enormous
and many-sided production. Yet, unre-
generate, we yearn for another “Kipps.”
Wells on Wells.
“ The frank confession of what one man of
the early Twentieth Century has found in
life and himself ” is neither so frank nor so
lucid as the reader of H. Gr. Wells would
have expected. Yet First and Last Things :
a Confession of Faith and Buie of Life (Con-
stable) is an interesting, if somewhat hesi-
tating, attempt at the formation of a rule of
conduct which one man found it necessary to
make for himself. He is essentially a
pragmatist, building his faith to suit his
immediate needs. He writes sanely upon
religion, love, war, Socialism ; but through-
out he is haunted by the inherent defect in
the only instrument given to the human
race, the human mind.
\f>
So, adventuring into metaphysics, Wells
develops his argument, already hinted at in
his previous works, that the human mind is
a fallible thinking instrument. He “figures”
the mind of man as an imperfect being ob-
taining knowledge by imperfect senses. We
are all biassed to ignore our mental imper-
fections. We suffer from a vain belief in the
universal validity of reasoning. “Of every-
thing we need to say : this is true, but it is
not quite true ; this is true in relation to
things in or near its plane,i but not true to
other things ; this may be truer for us than
for other people. ” And thereupon he proceeds
to belabor logic as Johnson belabored Burns.
“ The forceps of our minds are clumsy for-
ceps, and crush the truth a little in taking
hold of it. . . . Every species is vague. Every
term gets cloudy at its edges ; and so, in my
way of thinking, relentless logic is only
another name for a stupidity—for a sort ®f
intellectual pigheadedness The mind is
really pigeon-holed as discontinuous in two
respects : in respect to time and in respect
to classification; whereas one has a strong
persuasion that the world of fact is unbounded
or continuous.”
The current syllogistic logic rests on the
assumption that Aisßor it is not B. The
practical reality is that nothing is permanent;
A is always becoming more or less B,
or ceasing to be more or less B. But
the human mind has to hold a thing still for
a moment before it can think it. It cannot
contemplate things continuously, and so has
to resort to a series of static snapshots.
Thus, with the thinker doubtful about the
validity of his thought, Wells’ philosophy is
no concrete, definitely-bounded thing, but a
parcel of hesitating affirmations, a bundle of
frayed queries and loose/ends of speculation.
Yet is he to be blamed for this blurring of
the edges of his mental vision, when he
knows that the edges of mankind’s mental
vision was always bluri’ed ?
W
In a confession naturally vague, Wells
proves the merging of the identity of the
individual soul into the larger soul of man-
kind. This is his creed—that the individual
is useful only as he is useful to the race.
Arid he cannot stand apart from the race.
He mathematically shows that every single
person who lived a hundred generations ago
is now ancestral to all of us. And not only
that. We are all going to mingle on blood
again.
“ All the' Montagues and Capulets are
doomed to intermarry. A time will come
in less than fifty generations when all the
population of the world will have my blood,
and I and my worst enemy will nut be able
to say which child is his or mine. But you
may retort—perhaps you may die childless.
Then all the sooner the whole species will
get the little legacy of my personal achieve-
ment, whatever it may be. .. . Qur indivi-
dualities, our nations and states and races
are but bubbles and clusters of foam upon
the great stream of the blood of the species,
incidental experiments in the growing know-
ledge and consciousness of the race. . . .
“The blood of the Jews has turned in
upon itself again and again ; but for all we
know one Italian proselyte in the first year
of the Christian era may have made by this
time every Jew alive a descendant of some
unrecorded bastard of Julius Cmsar. The
exclusive breeding of e the Jews is, in fact,
the most effectual guarantee that whatever
does get into the charmed circle, through
either proselytism, the violence of enemies,
or feminine unchastity, must ultimately per-
vade it universally. ...
“ One of the dearest human motives
is to found a family, but think how
much of a family one founds at the
best. In ten brief generations one’s heir
and namesake has but one— lo24th of
one’s inherited self. Those other thousand
odd unpredictable people thrust in and
mingle with one’s pride. ... It is not the
individual that reproduces himself, it is the
species that reproduces through the in-
dividual, and often in spite of his charac-
teristics. The race flow's through us.”
\t/
In his discussion of Christianity Wells
objects to Christ on the very characteristic
ground that “ he had no petty weaknesses.”
“ The last cry of despair is the one human
touch, discordant with all the, rest of the
story. The Christian’s Christ is too fine for
me, not incarnate enough, not flesh enough,
not earth enough. He was never foolish
and hot-eared and inarticulate, never vain,
he never forgot things, nor tangled his
miracles. . . . When I think of the Resur-
rection I am always reminded of the ‘ happy
endings ’ that editors and actor managers are
accustomed to impose upon essentially tragic
novels and plays.”
«
“The modern man is really exceptional in
history ; no man before ever ate such elabo-
rate dinners in such ugly clothes.”—G. K.
Chesterton.


JL
'age
No. 86— Equilibrium Chair, in best quality
Pegamoid, frame of Tasmanian Walnut, can be
adjusted to any position, £ 10/17/6.
No. 278 — Pith Cane Chair, Malacca Cane
frame, 14/6.
nANY other styles are
illustrated in our Com-
plete Guide to Furnish-
ing. Write for a Copy, posted
free on application, and reap
the full benefit of our benefi-
cent rule of
Top Quality# Bottom Price
No. 253—Fancy Wicker Chair, hollow
’ seat, Malacca Cane frame, 17/6.
L UXUR I Lounge Furniture
AT
i
Anthony Horderns’
Famous how Prices.
No I— Woven Wire Seated Couch, 6ft. long x 22in. wide, frame strongly bolted
throughout, seat woven with best steel wire, turned spindle back rail and scroll, turned
legs on good strong castors ; a handsome conch—
Finished Walnut color, without Cushion and Pillow, etc., 25/-
Also in cheaper quality wire, with all spindle back rail, frame strongly bolted together,
turned legs on castors, 17/6
Cushion, with deep Valance and Pillow, stuffed Kapok, as shown in illustration—
Cretonne, 13/6 ; Leather Duck, 18/6
Or for larger Couch, same design, 6ft. longx 26in. wide, without Pillow and Cushion, 30/-
Cushion, with deep Valance and Pillow, stuffed Kapok, for the larger size— Cretonne,
15/3; Leather Duck, 21/6.
No. 271 —Fancy Wicker Chair,
Malacca Cane frame, 11/6.
No. 274—Fancy Wicker Chair,
Malacca. Cane frame, 11/6.
The prices quoted do not include the cost of
packing or freight, but we deliver FREE to
Sydney Wharves or Train.
No. 245 —Pith. Cane Lounge, very strong, 35/-
No. 37 —Easy Clinir, upholstered in best
quality Saddlebags and Utrecht Velvet, spring
seat, extra quality Cord and Fringe, best
workmanship throughout, £3/10/-
No. 88— Lounge Chair, upholstered in
quality Pegamoid, best workmanship
throughout. JB6/10/-
“UNDER FOOT”
is the title of an Illustrated Price
List of Carpets, Linoleums and Floor=
coverings. The illustrations are in
colors, which accurately depict the
rich and artistic patterns.
Write for a Copy, posted FREE
on request.
No. 272 —Fancy Wicker Chair, Malacca
Cane frame, 11/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
9
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium»
BricKfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


worn
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd. ° J
S YDKTE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
C arefXTttendL S^?vEPS^^ N f,’ MARSUPIAL SKINS
to vveighincf elassinf h ' gh i y effl « lent EXPERTS, who pay special attention
Exceptional fjiruYiH <- p smgto veiv best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly,
their er«? Fall ™ l rS“i“ re °^ r S d l >y *is Company.to WHEAT growers for free storage of
v uli particulars will be furnished on application.
A g ent s in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape
FOR
BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GKEAT
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE ~ms
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/fZ
/°J
POST
FKEE
Mj
£ +/“
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Tommy Burns’ Sqikntikic
Boxing, 40 photo-illustra-
tions, 3/-, posted 3/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
ok Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Ready-made
Speeches and Toasts, 1/-.
Bride ok the First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/-. How to
Mesmerise, 1 /.. Every
Man His Own Builder,
1/6. Letter Writer, 1/-.
Lover’s Guide, 1/3.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
2
m
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing- some-
thing- quite new in
magic. Price 6d.; post
free, Bd.
Tiir Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6. '
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘FBUIT SALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION. ’
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London.
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
sd
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
he Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents. ALLAN & CO.. Ply. Ltd., 276 8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
T° DEF'Y' COMFBTITIOKT.'
WTNESS The Besf Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
it*
AV
CORSETS
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/|| to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane. MELBOURNE.
„ „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House.
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection a,
dinßeforßsi
MAGNESIA,
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
dAIlk
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
GENERAL
DEBILITATION.
THE LIVER BLAMED.
Sincerity of conviction and directness of pur-
pose mark the action of Mr. Thomas Theak in
giving for publication the ensuing lines, which
were written at his home, No. 88 Botany Road,
Alexandria.
“I am one of the few people living in Sydney
who has never been out of it,” was Mr. Theak’s
initial remark, “not that it is anything to boast
about, but purely an uncommon circumstance.”
“Your business does not conduce to much
travelling, perhaps?” said the interviewer.
“I’m a painter by trade, and there has been
plenty of work to keep me here, without wasting
time looking for it in other parts. Yes ; I have
done fairly well from a business standpoint, but
from a health point of view I was not always so
fortunate. Let me give you, for example, the
time that I found it necessary to start taking
medicine, and I must have been pretty bad to
take that on, I tell you. It was because I was
much weaker than I should have been, conse-
quent, I firmly believe, on working too hard. I
had the unpleasant experience of never being able
to relish my food, no matter how daintily pre-
pared, for my appetite had fallen away to nothing.
I was also troubled with most uncomfortable feel-
ings, following upon the taking of foods, the
stomach filling with gases, and causing pain, be-
sides being oppressed with a dreariness of mind
which made it too much trouble to devote my
thoughts to anything. I felt fit for nothing but
to go and lie down after meals, and a person in a
healthy state should not be like that, you know.”
“That condition is a sure indication that some-
thing has gone wrong with the liver?”
“Precisely; and that’s what I was suffering
from. I went on ailing for a good length of time,
going from bad to worse, and .wondering what on
earth would cure me and make my life a bit more
bearable, when a son of mine who had been using
Clements Tonic advised me to try some. Well,
that was the best introduction I have ever had,
because Clements Tonic has been a firm friend of
mine ever since. But before I get too far ahead
<>r my story, let me tell you of the way I suffered
com headaches—so heavy and acute that I could
scarcely raise my head from the pillow, and mak-
ing me wish that I could leave this earth and all
its misery behind, A coated tongue and a vile
taste in the mouth started the day’s round of dis-
agreeable circumstances, and my sight got so dim
as to lead me to think that a skin was growing
over them. Then the giddy feelings—why, some-
times I almost dropped, through their sudden
visits, and my shoulders were so affected witli
pain that it hurt me to move. Indeed, on one
occasion I was for a whole week and could not
raise my arms. The chest and stomach were also
out of gear, and on top of it all I was listless and
low-spirited to a marked degree. Each morning I
got up feeling that I did not care what happened,
always being more inclined to go back to bed
again than to dress myself. There was sufficient
evidence to show that my nervous system was feel-
ing the strain of my physical adversities, so you
will see there was a big contract in front of Clem-
ents Tonic when I made my first purchase of that
valuable remedy. But I found it very much up-
to-date, believe me. There was no taking of half-
a-dozen bottles, and feeling no better, as applies
to other medicines. Oh ! no; neither do I say that
I felt all right after taking one bottle of Clements
Tonic ; yet I can truthfully assert that I felt some-
what relieved, and that by judiciously sticking to
that treatment I conquered in the end. Yes,
Clements Tonic gained a complete mastery over
each of my ailments, and left me in the happy
position of being able to eat and drink whatever
I liked, without experiencing any ill effects after
wards. Its power over the nerves is extraordi-
nary, its appetising influences are unique, its value
as a, promoter of sleep is unrivalled, and for curing
indigestion and building up one’s strength I’m
positive there is nothing to come within coo-ee of
Clements Tonic.”
“ Well, we’ll print your remarks ? ”
“Do—in any form you like to mention, or de-
cide upon.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, THOMAS THEAK, of 88 Botany Road, Alexandria,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing- the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo, this twenty-
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and eight, before me,
11]
W. A. POWELL, J.P.


c"
M
\
k? -
The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger’s
flair Vigor
produces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
Prepared b:> Dr. J. C. Ayer h Co., Lowoll, Mass., U.S.A.
sdfs
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3a10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, beet makes o£ Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Bim Brakes, variable gears
and all lates, improvements.
Packod & Delivered Free
to any port in the worltj. _¥e guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
■wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free act catalogues
and our » necial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO,, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
Shanntt^-
Barnet Glass Cycle Tyres are made
in two varieties, the “Flite” and the
“Daddv.”
The '“Flite” Red Road-Racing; Tyres
and Roadsters, with the fluted tread,
are made from the finest rubber, and
for good work, under any and all
conditions, will give better satisfaction
and longer
wear than any
other Cycle
Tyre made.
Ask your
dealer to show
you the
Barnet Glass
Cycle Tyres.
BARNET
GLASS
RUBBER
CO.,
226 Flinders
Lane,
Melbourne,
and
234 Clarence
St., Sydney.
Two Grades
Tha Furt
&• •
VPDD Y
LADIES’ TAILOR CUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for:
VERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/6.
SHIRTS from 4/-
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
o
IRISH MOSS
FOR
Ask for Bonn mg ton's
and get it
The best remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Home-made Sodawater
or any sparkling mineral waters can be made In a
moment anywhere and in any quantity by using
c*
“Prana” Sparklet Bulbs
in
“Prana” Sparklet
Syphons.
No waiting —no failures.
No trouble —no difficulty.
On sale of all Stores, Ironmongers,
&c., throughout Australasia.
For full particulars apply to any of the
undermentioned firms, who will give you
the name and address of your nearest dealer.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Sydney and Brisbane; Rocke, Tompsitt
G. Wood. Son & Co., Adelaide? G. P. Harris, Scarfe
Alfred Shaw, Ltd., Townsville.
Sole Makers: Aerators, Ltd., “Prana" Sparklet
& Co., Melbourne;
& Co., Fremantle;
Works, London.
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth Is
Horiick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants fronj birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in
selling Horlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starch.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, &C.
Samples: 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co.. Slough, Bucks, Eng.
I
)
V/.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water .
CAPTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
o£ the Label.
df
PALMOS CAMERAS
in all the usual sizes.
Made of
Light Metal.
Fitted with
ZEISS
OBJECTIVES
sd
and Focal
Plane Shutter.
Illustrated Price List c7B Post Free on Application.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL DEALERS IN OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS AND FROM:
I 1 ADI 7EICC ENGLISH BRANCH—
UAHL fablvVi 29, Margaret Street,
Regent Street,
JENA. London, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Better Things Ahead.
We have heard the message whispered by the
trees ;
It is uttered in the rushing of the rain ;
We have caught it in the breathing of the breeze,
And the sighing of the grasses on the plain.
’Tis the calling, calling, calling of the blood
To be up and into action and away
On the paths our spirits tread
To the Better Things Ahead ;
And he that hears the message may not stay.
It is beating out a melody for me—
’Twill be running in my brain-box by-and-bye
Like the singing of the surges of the sea,
And I’ll seize upon its meaning ere I die.
Though the air be still elusive to my ear
I will snare the message flitting through the
cells,
Then I’ll journey, phantom-led,
To the Better Things Ahead,
To the voicing of a mandate which impels.
When the tide of sap is rising into flood ;
When the founts of youth are riotous once more
With a pressure swelling branches into bud,
And a fulness all depletion shall restore,
I will answer to the Voice that urges on ;
I will leave the humdrum sphere where I exist;
I will take my way instead
To the Better Things Ahead,
To the good things of the future in the mist.
Shall we that hear the message not obey ?
Shall we answer not the Voice that urges on
To be up and into action and away
On the road that all adventurers have gone ?
With a strong resolve and sudden shall we act;
We shall leave the stagnant waters for the flood—
Leave the spheres where we were bred
For the Better Things Ahead,
When we hear the message calling in our blood !
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
Near the Goal.
You are weary, my Brother,
Of the weary way,
And the dust and the smother,
And the heat of day.
You have marched along gravely,
With a heavy load ;
Yet you carried it bravely
On the long, long Road.
And my load was no feather,
Yet my heart kept up—
Now we’ll join together
In a parting cup.
There’s a place of forgetting
For both foes and friends,
Where the red sun is setting.
And the long Road ends.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
The Call of a Bird.
The world’s a-dreara this golden afternoon,
Where spring winds whisper low a lute-like <tune,
Where heavy-scented gums are rustling low
By paddocks splashed with creamy clover snow.
Suddenly, sweet and clear,
Across the- emerald plain,
Out of the light wood trees,
Down by the river leas,
Wafted along the breeze,
The cuckoo calls again.
The world’s a-dreatn, while longer shadows creep.
Across the creek’s brown waters, still and deep,
Flash dragon-flies, and scented blossoms drift
On every breeze that bids the low boughs lift.
Call, calling low,
By knee-deep bracken brae
Hear now the cuckoo’s cry
As from a time gone by
Memory awakes its sigh
O’er many a long-lost day.
Fast falls the veil that dims the distant years,
Where memory gazes thro’ a mist of tears,
And all the while the echo clearly rings,
Laden with thought of lost and far off things.
Call, calling low
By bush-lands green and lone,
Love springs to life again,
Awakes to the old, sweet pain,
Love that so long has lain
In dust of years agone.
And now the fading sunset gold has tipped
The highest masses of the eucalypt,
But still the cuckoo calls across the night,
While I am listening, hushed in sad delight.
Call, calling low,
It breaks my heart to hear,
Now, while the daylight dies
Far in the dusky skies
Bidding Love’s ghost to rise
From out a bygbne year.
Oh cuckoo, calling sweet across the years,
Laden with tangled hopes and joys and fears,
There is no magic that can wake again
Lost love, dead youth, with all their joy and pain.
Call, calling low,
Call on that I may dream
Love springs to life again,
Wakes to the old, sweet pain—
Love, Youth that long have lain
Asleep by life’s dim stream.
VIC.
KATHLEEN WALKER.


Tltc
ARCHITECT
SPECIFIES
o
£
c
*>
&l
8W
ih/rn t l hat°fh^ , w arC J l,, fi C u 9 R ra ? ,lcal experience has taught
the ideal form , under,tc h Designs embossed in Metal are
•ne Ideal f orm for ceilings and wall-linings.
siyie ana never give any trouble.
and purposes *hey are wonderfully adaptable
and lend themselves to endless color combinations.
wh,ch
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
ißox 474 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms:
243 COLLINS ST.
x_7P/m 'VHt’sT/i
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
CV v[tl t Ht^ & i^ SSe "i tla i• l ° th j main tenance and restoration of
vitality, »8 easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
genuine cocoa flavour.
-SUPPORTS
15he
AUTO STROP
g I f§
<
y ;
...
mg*® 3 *
Retail price : complete in leather
case, with Strop and Twelve Blades
25/-
The last word in Safety Razors,
and a most acceptable Christ-
mas or New Year Gift.
The only Safety Razor that
you can strop and clean without
removing blade.
Agents for Manufacturers :
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
ATTRACTIVE CHEAP QUEENSLAND FREEHOLDS.
5 MILES FROM BRISBANE.— SOB acres, 200 acres being: splendid agricultural land, balance first-class
grazing land, permanent water, well improved, fenced, subdivided, 40 acres cultivation, 40 cows in
profit. 755. per acre.
5 MILES FROM CITY, FREEZING WORKS, Etc.— 15,380 acres freehold, rich alluvial soil, well grassed,
black soil and ridges, river frontage, lagoons, fenced, good house, would fatten 600 to 800 bullocks
annually. 40s. per acre. Good terms. .
13 MILES FROM SOUTHERN AND WESTERN L1NE.— 2230 acres, 1000 acres light scrub, balance plains,
frontage to creek, also well, windmill, fenced (new), five paddocks, 1800 lambing ewes given in. 70s.
per acre. Freehold. Good terms.
3 MILES FROM DALBY. —4028 acres, freehold, rich black soil, box and myall, permanently watered by
wells, with mills and reservoirs, securely fenced, good residence, yards, woolshed, etc., splendid
property, recommend inspection. 84s. per acre.
For further particulars, apply to
NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO*, LTD*,
Stock, Land and Property Salesmen, BRISBANE.
“RATITE”
IS USED
by Municipal, Military and Naval Authorities,
by Steamship Companies, by Grain Stores,
Slaughter Houses, and Factories all over the
civilised world.
SCIENTIFIC and INFALLIBLE
RAT
Exterminator.
Harmless to Man and to all Domestic Animals.
3/6 per Tube; 3 Tubes, 70 '/- Post Free.
Regular Weekly Supplies received by
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD.
The Surgical and Veterinary Supply House,
246 Queen Street, BRISBANE,
as Agents for
Pasteur Vaccine Go. Ltd.,
7 Rue Meyerbeer, PARIS.
Perfection in Quality as well as in Name
PERFECTION
THE
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plugs, or Cut Up in Tins, 2ozs- and 4ozs.
Here's a Bargain I
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT-
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch O /
Post Free, v/ "
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE,
WOBTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Illustrated Price List Free.
cSSii
Y
Pale Blue Bead Necklets, 1/- Each.
The very Newest Novelties. Worth more than
twice the money. Only a limited quantity in stock.
S)*P“ Write early if you wish to secure one.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor • Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mention The Bulletin.
Also at Corner of
Bourke and Swanston
Streets,
Melbourne.
.
;
i
X V.X
m
-■v.
Is
ns
T
A week-end camp is the
ambition of most men,
and Ruberoid makes the
most inexpensive camp.
RUBEROID
Week-End Places.
A RUBEROID camp is
the easiest camp to
erect, and the most
comfortable camp
when it is erected.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30.—N0. 1509.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 1909.
Pkiok 6d
THE PRELIMINARY FIGHT.
The Federal Arbitration Court is preparing to hear the Broken Hill lockout case. Meanwhile, as a preliminary, the two parlies
concerned fight the matter out on the doorstep.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
fhee of the Co., 214 George-street North
Sydney, JN.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
r> * ( in Advance, Only)
rer Annum n
Half-yearly H r Z ° R
Quarterly ‘ 0 7 0
, direct t 0 The Bulletin Om.ce Twenty-Six
remdnrL f n erlmg V ou can h <ive Tint Bulletin posted
1 egularly to you every week for a year.
tohfmldto ’ and Vusmess Communications
o be add} essed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Ho tv to A (hires* Letters,
fan7 r^ POnde l Us t 0 ! r " K would oblige the paver
methods ofallZi by takin °
mfntTi 6 //\ et i ters , i™ Uh re « ard t 0 subscriptions, advertise-
I,St’ elf- J should in no case be addressed to the Editor
invite inattelMimi. er ' T ° t 0 tk * * dUor is t 0
nJiLti > HOt a 1700,1 thin !’ to address editorial letters to
sunevsi^'t- aine r S ke JidUor ’ BULLETIN,” is the vroper
for "copy " Delay, and even loss, is
times caused by addressing to persons instead of
always is. J 16 ™ ay not be there; the OJ/icial
Special. Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the vnb-
tuners. Ihe right, to reproduce or translate any part of
,! e of this number is hereby exvressly reserved by
ine publishers. * y
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable
acknowledge m the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
cceptable), Parafp'aphs, Letters , or Neivspaper Clippings .
will be regarded as strictly confi-
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
Mb. will be returned , or preserved , unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamvs
tor return it ■ will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateur., in liluolc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical draivings in line or wash, of suficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea , but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London , W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News'Agency
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, UUI Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Rank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Bool: and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6fin. x lUin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
ff^^zzlleZZn.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 1909.
JOHN MURRAY, PREMIER.
Apparently Victoria has got rid of its T. Bent,
for John Murray reigns in his stead, and the fur-
niture has been piled against the door of the new
Premier’s office to prevent the old Premier bursting
in and re-appointing himself. Yet, despite Murray
and the piled-up furniture, Victoria has cause to sit
down hard and ask itself if it has gained so very
much. Of course, it must have gained something.
The new Premier won’t be a clown singing “Jack
Jolt ” discor lantly at cheap bun-struggles. He
won’t be a lout who ruins costly dresses at public
functions by taking bunches of wet flowers out of
vases and throwing them in ladies’ laps, and then
laughs the horse laugh that shows the vacant
mind. He won’t throw more of his political
principles overboard than Bent did, for Bent
latterly threw everything overboard. He can’t
live in a thicker atmosphere of unpleasant rumors
than his predecessor; any further thickening of
the atmosphere could only lead to death by suf-
focation unless the new Head of the State cut his
way out to the fresh air with an axe. It
is impossible for Murray to excite more
derision among foreign visitors than did
Bent, who aroused an Englishman to remark that
only in Australia could such a person be possible.
There was only one Bent, and Bent was his own
prophet. And yet in merely getting rid of him it
is questionable if Victoria has gained a great deal.
The Upper House—the famous Victorian House
of Rich Landlords—remains, with the power and
the desire to block all progress ; and the House of
Rich Landlords stands for the worst Toryism in
Australasia ; and that same Toryism represents
Bent, and Bent represents it. Bent may be gone,
but his spirit remains, and the party which created
him remains, and though it was absolutely essen-
tial to get rid of Bent, yet his ejection is
only a step, and not a very long step,
on the road to reform. If the Victorian people
propose to sit down in peace and thankfulness
and contentment because they have obliterated
Bent, they might almost as well have kept Bent.
That person hac\>at least the merit of bringing
Toryism into contempt, by showing how vulgar
and uncouth was ics chosen figurehead.
* * * *
While the Upper House endures in its present
form, a Victorian State Ministry can choose be-
tween two alternateves. It can be an u tterly bad
Ministry of the Bent class, badly administering
the existing bad laws so as to make them worse,
and introducing new retrograde measures, which
will be eagerly passed by the House of Rich Land-
lords for the further undoing of the State. Or it
can be a good and honest Ministry, like that of
(jrEORGE Turner, making the best that is pos-
sible of the existing bad system, but do-
ing practically nothing to remove the old evils
because the House of Landlords won’t allow of
their removal. Owing to the amazing property
franchise, which makes the Victorian Upper
House a Chamber of Property-Owners, elected
almost wholly by property-owners, these are the
only possibilities in front of a Victorian Ministry,
unless its leader is a robust pirate who is prepared
to take the kind of chances which make a man a
national hero or else land him in gaol. A Premier
with such a magnetic personality that he could
persuade a majority of the Assembly to back him
in stopping supplies until the Legislative Council
VV °ij con sent to its own abolition—and that
would mean disbanding the unpaid police and
civil servants, and turning adrift the unpaid rail-
way officials and tax-collectors, and letting the
railways and public offices close up, and giving
the Landlords the alternative of climbing down
or seeing society resolve into its original ele-
ments as they were in the days of the Cave-men—
such a leader might, at great cost, put an end to
the sodden tyranny of the Victorian Upper
House. But there is no such leader in sight, and
lacking him there are only two things which
Victoria can do in its State capacitv—it can create
a Government like Turner’s, winch will make
the best of a bad job, or one like Irvine’s or
Bent s, which will make the worst of a bad job.
All the time it will be a bad job.
* * * •
The dead weight which is dragging down Vic-
toria is the same weight which has done so much
to drag down Ireland—land monopoly and the
curse of great estates. On this subject The Bul-
letin saves space by simply repeating what it
wrote in an article of December 17 last year
The present Premier (Bent) represents the tail-end of
the Old Brigade which has done such unspeakable damage
to Victoria. Thanks to it Victoria is practically a dying
state. The one streak of luck that has come its way in
the last 40 years has been Protection. That at least kept
Melbourne alive and growing, while Toryism and the Big
Landlords were ruining the best of the country districts ;
and the fact that Melbourne remained alive prevented the
btate becoming utterly dead. But the condition of the
country districts was and still is lamentable. Victoria is
divided into 37 counties, and of these, eight, all in the
most fertile districts, showed a smaller population in 1901
than in 1891, while about 16 others showed such a small
increase that they might be described as practically
stationary. Six counties, all in the fertile and well-
watered region, showed a smaller population in 1901 than
in 1881—they had been decaying for 20 years—while nine
had been practically stationary during the two decades.
1) urthermore, five counties showed a smaller population
in 1901 than in 1871—they had been decaving for 30 years.
In one case population had fallen from 84,000 to 57,000 :
in another, from 60,000 to 48,000. Also in seven counties
the increase in 30 years was just a shade better than
nothing. In addition to this there were two counties,
both located in the most fertile part of Victoria, which
showed a smaller population in 1901 than in 1861—they
had been decaying under the curse of big-landlordism for
40 years. Hardly anything grows in Victoria save Mel-
bourne, and but for the blessing of Protection it wouldn’t
grow either.
Victoria is being killed in order that Bent and suchlike
political trash may not be deprived of their jobs. To
save it, they would have to do battle with the House of
Rich Landowners, and they might lose their billets in the
scuffle. The State has already lost one member in the
House of Representatives through its decreasing import-
ance, and at next adjustment it is due to lose another.
It has been exporting agricultural population on a hive
scale for about 18 years, and it has done this solely
through the fact that, even in its great empty areas—the
areas of decreasing population—its young men can’t get
land on which to settle. It is becoming a State of old
men, old women and children, because the strong youri"-
people go away to look for land. The Federal Statist
estimates that there are in Victoria 66,000 aged dodderers
of 65 years or more, while N.S.W., with a much larn-er
population, has less than 47,000, and S.A., with one-third
of Victoria’s population, has not more than one-fifth
its number of venerables. The condition has become
so lamentable through the wholesale departure of the
young men and women from the decaying country dis-
tricts of Victoria to look for a bit of soil where the landlord
doesn’t demand the whole produce as rent, that in Bent’s
State 50 out of every 1000 persons are qualified by their
years for the old age-pension, while in the rest of the
Commonwealth the proportion is only 28 per 1000. Vic-
toria is the only State of the Commonwealth in which the
number of women exceeds that of men—a result that is
wholly attributable to the compulsory exodus of the
young male agricultural population. It is a land where
wealth and spinsters and old human wrecks accumulate
while real men decay. Its birth-rate (2532 per 100,000
people in 1907, as compared with the Commonwealth’s
general average of 2655) is far below the ordinary Aus-
tralian figure. Its marriage rate (773 per 100,000 inhabit-
ants. compared with the Commonwealth's 781) is below
the average. Its death rate (1174 per 100,000 people, as
compared with the Commonwealth’s record of 1090) is
above the average, and is far the worst record in Aus-
tralasia. In three out of the last six years dealt with in
Knibbs’s valuable Official Year Book, it is set forth that
the male population of Victoria decreased , though females
multiplied steadily. And when one considers that 13 out
of the 37 counties (Grant, Anglesey, Talbot, Grenville
Ripon, Follett, Lowan, Kara Kara,‘Millewa, Gladstone’
Gunbower, Rodney, and Wonnangatta), at last census’
showed a smaller population than they had had at some
previous period of their history, this is not surprising.
The Big Landlord is extirpating population fast in the
best of the Victorian country districts.
* * * •
And to these results of the policy of Victoria’s
House of Rich Landlords may be added one or
two more items. During- the last three years the
Commonwealth has added 932£ miles to its rail-
way system, but so utterly useless is it to build
railways where there are only emptiness and
space and air and grass and rabbits and the Big
Landlord, that of all this increase only two miles
were in Victoria—the State that stands for nearly
one-third of the Commonwealth’s population.
Again, the shifty gasman Swinburne, speaking of
the awful results of the Big Landlord system, thus
described one of Victoria’s most fertile counties,
the place where the once famous but now dead
Kyabram policy came from :
There has been £200,000 of Government money spent
in the shire of Rodney, while the number of landholders
has been increased by only six during the last 15 years.
... On one of the most important roads in Rodney 18
years ago there were 28 farmers ; to-day there are only
POUR.
It may be mentioned here that Thomas Bent,
the leader of the Tory party, propounded it
remedy for this disease. He proposed a limita-
tion of country estates, the same to come into
force in 20 years—such a limitation that a little
over 2000 individuals could still own all the
country lands of Victoria ; or if the present Big
Landlord made a nominal division of his property
among his two children, his wife and himself, the
whole area could be really owned by 500
individuals.
* • * *
It is not suggested that there is much to choose
between the land systems of Victoria, Tasmania
and N.S.W. They are really all very much the
same. But Victoria has now about 14 people to
the square mile as compared with seven people in
Tasmania and five in N.S.W., and apparently,
while the Big Landlord curse endures, 14 people
to the square mile is about the utmost that a
fertile Australian State can carry. Victoria has
come up against the dead wall which the other two
States, unless they mend their ways, or unless the
Commonwealth mends their ways for them, will
come up against a few years later. Victoria has
struck against the fact that, unless it gets rid. not
only of Bent, but of the whole policy which Bent
represents, it is a dead, or petrified, or stunned
community, which, in some 60 or 70 years, has
reached its full maturity and has even entered,
upon a process of decay.
• * » *
There are two apparent remedies for the
disease which threatens to make Victoria a petri-
fied geological specimen instead of a live com-
munity. That is to say, there are two ways of
getting rid of the Upper House of property-
holders elected by property-holders. One is a
front attack ; the other is by a process of turning
the enemy’s flank. The front attack means that
Victoria, as an individual State, should endeavor
to work out its own redemption. The process is
difficult. Victoria, as a State, can’t compel the
propertied vultures of its Upper House to be
patriotic or even reasonable. The law says that
only Rich Landlords —proprietors of bloated wil-
dernesses—can be elected to the Upper House,
and that only a limited constituency can elect
them. The Landlords might be brought to con-
sent to their own abolition by mob violence, by
revolution, by the refusal of supplies and a sus-
pension of all the work of government; but these
are crude and costly devices. Therefore should
Victoria think hard over a scheme for turning the
flank of the position and dispersing the Upper
House by a rear attack. The position looks im-
pregnable, yet that kind of attack could disperse
the House of Landlords like a bundle of dry
grass struck by lightning.
* * * *
The remedy is for the State Labor parties to
throw themselves whole-heartedly into the work
of Unification and Reconstruction. Nothing that
the electors can do by voting in their State capa-
city can shift the Victorian House of Property
one iota, for the law which says that only men of
property can sit there compels the electors to send
to the Upper House individuals who reject whole-
sale the measures their own constituents have
most at heart. But these same electors, voting
in their Federal capacity, can pass an
amendment of the Australian Constitution
handing over to the Commonwealth all the
powers now held by the State authorities.
That being done, the Commonwealth could supply
new State constitutions, and create new State
Legislatures each of one House, based on plain
adult suffrage. There would be a temporary
eclipse, or suspension of State authority, and then
business would resume—with a difference—at the
old address. The Labor party would still be
there, and the Liberal party would still be there,
but the great Tory incubus would have vanished
as utterly as if it had never been. The work
might all be done in three years if the Democratic
elements in all the States concentrated their
efforts ; and whether a State hasa property-elected
Upper House or a House of Life Nominees, the
need for abolition is almost the same. As for the
alternative—the process of frontal attack—well,
it took about 20 years of incessant battling, and
about 17 rejections of the measure, before the
Victorian Upper House passed a harmless Bill
allowing the propertied female to say at the polls
which Rich Landlord she preferred for her repre-
sentative. That instance of velocity suggests
ten centuries as the shortest time in which a very
moderate Democratic programme could be put
through in what used to be Bent’s State. In the
days after the Reconstruction, too, people would
begin to vote for Prendergast’s party in dead
earnest. They don’t now, for it isn’t worth
while. If Victoria became so overwhelmingly
Labor that Pkendergast’s party numbered 60
members in the Assembly and the Tory section
could only muster the remaining five, legislation
would still be just as stagnant as it is now, for the
House of Landlords would throw out Prender-
GASt’s reforms in a heap. Things might indeed
be worse than they are now. That sort of Upper
Blouse would throw out small harmless routine
measures simply because they were PrendergAST’s
measures, while if the same measures had been
Murray’s or Swinburne’s it would have allowed
them to pass. Consequently people take no
interest in voting for Prendergast and Co., and
Prendergast and Co. take very little real interest
in themselves.
Therefore The Bulletin holds that in all the
States, but most of all in such States as Victoria
and Tasmania, the Unification and Reconstruction
movement is one on which Democracy should
concentrate its efforts. It is the short road to a new
order of things—an order under which the Demo-
cratic party would at last get its full opportunity.
Meanwhile it is pleasing to know that John
Murray is State Premier of Victoria, we Thomas
Bent, obliterated until further notice. This paper
has little faith in Murray nowadays and not much
hope concerning him, and it has no hope at
all as to many of his friends—but at least
he isn’t Bent. And if is interesting, in an
academic sort of way, to learn that Murray favors
a graduated land-tax for the breaking up of big
estates. As the Upper House will throw out any
effective measure of the kind with contumely on
the first reading, the interest in this phase of
John Murray’s mind is purely academic. If the
Victorian Upper House ever enacts a heavy
graduated land-tax it will only be when the Unifi-
cation and Reconstruction movement is so far
advanced that the end of the Landlords is in
sight. Then, like Louis XVI. or Abdul Hamid
in the day of revolution, it may start climbing
down in reckless haste with the hope of averting
complete destruction, and may providentially
break its neck while trying to take the last half of
the descent in one jump.
THE DAY THE BIG SHELLS CAME.
He was a Didn’t-Think Australian. He Didn’t
Think the Australian was of much account. He
Didn’t Think he could manufacture his own goods.
He Didn’t Think an Australian was competent to
manage his own railways, or even his trams. He
Didn’t Think he could hold his own country. He
Didn t Think he could own or run a navy. He
Didn’t Think he could defend himself, even on
land. In fact, he got along quite comfortably
without thinking at all, except thinking how mean
and incompetent and humble the Australian was
and ought to be.
Also, he Didn’t Think that other races thought.
He Didn t Think that Asia had already discovered
Australia, and was doing some hard thinking
about ways and means how to take possession of
it from a nation of Didn’t-Thinkers.
But that was before the day the big shells came.
The war, though it was scarcely more than a
scrap or a raid, came with the awful suddenness
of the Russo-Jap war. If he had done any think
except Didn’t-Thinking, he would have expected
suddenness. He had history—quite recent and
very adjacent history—to warn him ; but he
Didn’t Think. Instead, he went comfortably on
with his work at the office. He was clerk to a big
importing company, run by a mob of gentlemen
whose names read like a sneeze and whose noses
obliterated the rest of their physiognomies. And
he voted consistently for the anti-Socialists, who
had done more Didn’t Thinking than even he
could do. And he objected to Protection, and
especially to what he called “ Conscription.” He
Didn’t Think it would do for an English race, for.
getting that he belonged to the Australian race,
and that in this modern world nations have to
look after themselves.
So he toiled at the office till five o’clock, and
then hurried home to his little red-tiled cottage in
Mosman, and tied up his youthful tomatoes, and
hosed his tiny lawn, and watered his strip or
garden, and cleaned out his lusty fowl-yard. It
was quite a prosperous fowl-run and quite a pretty
little garden—on the day before the big shells
came.
* * » *
The evening before that day he went to bed
happy and comfortable. The evening papers had
some double-column, big-type cables about some
vague trouble with the Japs; but then you know
what evening papers are—always working up
some foolish scare or other. Sensible people
simply Didn’t Think about what they printed at all.
Still, these cables were interesting to read after
dinner. And he passed the paper across to his
wife with a yawn, and filled his pipe. After his
long day’s work at the office he allowed nothing
to interfere with his enjoyment of his pipe.
But his wife was busy patching the pants of
little Geoiigie ; and when she did pick up the
paper she managed to read only as far as the
marriage notices and the advertisements of the
new-shaped corsets. For then the children had
to be put to bed, and after that it was time to
lock up.
He roused himself from his doze, and, growling,
went carefully round the little house, and saw
that all the windows were properly fastened, and
the front door bolted top and bottom. And as he
shot the bottom bolt home he knew he was Safe.
Nobody could break in and steal—though, if he
had thought about it, he would have known that
no burglar in his senses would have wanted any-
thing that the house contained. Yet it was as
well to be safe. Some day some one might want
to break in. (It was curious that on the morrow,
had he only known, somebody would want to
break in.)
So, knowing that, for the night at least, he and
his wife and the kids were Safe, he went to bed.
But just before he went to sleep a thought came
to him. He nudged his wife.
“I say, Jane, what if that paper was right,
after all, and somebody really did come and
attack us?”
And his wife said, “Why, they wouldn’t dare.
It would mean a war with England ? Did you
turn off the gas in the kitchen? I wish you
would go and make sure. I’m always so fright-
ened of fire, and there’s the expense of the gas
flaring away all night. You know you left it on
that night three years ago.”
He grumbled that he distinctly remembered
putting it out and bumping his shin on the chair
in the dark. She was satisfied and went to sleep.
But he couldn’t sleep. If there was a war—
well, of course, the British fleet would see to that.
That was what it was for. There would be a big
battle somewhere in the China Sea, and it would
be all right again. And there was always the
Australian squadron, the visible guarantee that
England was protecting us. True, the ships were
out of date ; but out here, in an out-of-date con-
tinent, out-of-date ships were good enough.
And then he dimly recalled that the Australian
squadron had left the harbor the day before,
ordered out on a training cruise—or was it to some
reception of a new admiral at Brisbane, or some
business at Auckland ? He couldn’t remember.
But on his trip home in the ferry he had missed
the grey bulks of the squadron at their anchorage.
Without them, the harbor looked very bare... and
unprotected. He was vaguely annoyed that just
at this time, when foolish papers published scares
—they ought to be prosecuted, or something, for
disturbing people that way—just at this time
when he felt uneasy the Fleet wasn’t there.
In the end he slept, but dreamed. He thought
he heard guns firing just above his head, and woke
to find that it was the bathroom door slamming in
the southerly. He shut the door and went back
to bed. His wife was sleeping soundly.
* * * ~
He awakened just at dawn, dreaming that he
heard those guns again. It was the bathroom
door, of course ; but it sounded more like distant
thunder. His wife was awake, too, and wanted
to know who it was trying to hammer in the back
door. She was sure it was the milkman. Had he
forgotten to put out the jug, as usual ?
He went unwillingly down in his pyjamas, and
found the jug waiting pathetically on the
doorstep, empty. Surely the milkman was very
late? He would speak about it. It was
curious, however, that now he was outside he
heard those noises again, only louder. They
came regularly, far off, thunderous, like the beat-
ing of a vast cosmic pulse. He listened carefully,
and seemed to locate the noises out to sea. It
was the squadron returning, and firing some con-
founded salute or other. They were always firing
salutes; they seemed to like to hear the noise;
but they had no right to waken respectable
citizens so early in the morning by their row. He
thought he would write to the paper, and protest.
In his mind he began to compose the opening
sentences.
He went back to bed, determined to get a
little sleep before breakfast. How could he
do his work at the office unless he got his
proper sleep? But he could not sleep. Those
noises were louder now, more insistent in their
regularity. And occasionally he heard a thin,
shrill screaming overhead. It seemed to him that
some strange bird was whistling just above his
ceiling. His wife heard it too, and put it down,
or up, to those brats next door. It gave her, she
explained, the jumps. Those brats of Jones’s
had no right to climb on her roof, and she would
tell Mrs. Jones that—yes, to her face, over the
fence when she returned to Mrs. Jones the sad-
iron she had borrowed last ironing-day. It wasn’t
much of a sad-iron, either. She could buy a better
one than that, and she would, and tell Mrs. Jones
so to her face. Nasty little brats they were,
too. Why couldn’t Mrs. Jones wash their faces,
sometimes ?
“ There they are again ! ” she exclaimed, as the
roof, indeed the whole house, shook. The chil-
dren in the next room were awake now and crying
out. The husband dressed quickly and in a bad
temper, and went outside.
There was nobody on the roof. A sharp rattle
and a continuous pop-popping came from some-
where quite near. It seemed to be in the direc-
tion of George’s Head. That rattle and that pop-
popping suddenly stirred a remembrance ... a
review and a sham-fight by the volunteers. This
sounded very like . . . An awful suspicion stopped
his heart for a moment. Suppose, after all, this
was the Real Thing ! But he put that absurd
dread aside valiantly, and went inside to write


his letter to the editor. They liad “<?
hold sham-fights so near Sydney. Why, if by
any chance a bullet got into one of those rifles
somebody might be killed ! But, even inside,
that regular thunder went on ; it seemed louder.
He got up restlessly from the table and went out
to get the morning paper. But the morning
paper had not come. He searched the garden
and the fowl-house for it, even exploring among
the tomatoes ; for the boy who brought it had an
uncertain aim. He determined to write to the
agent and claim one penny. Also, to write to the
manager and get that boy dismissed, or his aim
improved. * * +
Then the back gate was flung open and a
neighbor burst in, clad in a pink pyjama coat and
trousers with the braces flapping.
The Didn’t Think Australian recognised him
as a bank manager, on whose wife his wife had
called without the call being returned, though
“ First and Third Thursday ” was printed quite
plainly on her cards.
As the bank manager stood speechless in the
gateway the first thought of the Didn’t Think
Australian was that the bank manager had just
discovered those visiting cards, and had rushed
over to say that his wife would call this week. It
was neighborly, but a little untimely.
The bank manager found his voice. “The
Japs ! ” he gasped. “The Japs ! They’re shell-
ing the town! ”
He was gone the moment after, before the
Didn’t-Think Australian could say a word.
The Japs!
Then it was true. But he Didn’t Think it
could be true. Yet all the time the rattle of that
musketry seemed to be getting nearer, and over-
head he heard a shrill thin scream that seemed to
rend the air. He rushed for his verandah. He
would be safer there.
And, cowering on his back verandah, he looked
over to Sydney for the first time. Sydney was
swathed in smoke, and vast explosions seemed to
be shaking it to pieces. As he gazed, fascinated,
he saw the Post Office tower gently slant over and
crumble out of sight. And then he was conscious
that the skyline of the city appeared, somehow,
strangely different. There were huge gaps in it
where towers and square blocks of buildings
should have been. And here and there he made
out thin flames sweeping slantingly up.
It took him some time to understand the full
horror of it all. With a vast throbbing in his ears
he realised it. The city, his Sydney, was being
shelled, actually shelled ! It was an outrage !
“Somebody will pay for this!” he fiercely
muttered. “It shouldn’t be allowed. It must
be stopped. The authorities should see to it.
And at once ! Why, they’re ruining the city !
Don’t they know how valuable those buildings
are? Why, they will hit my office if they aren’t
careful ! And how can I work if there isn’t any
office ? This is carelessness —gross carelessness! ”
* • * *
His wife appeared in a dressing-jacket and with
hair done any way.
“Breakfast is ready, John,” she said curtly.
“ If you don’t hurry, you’ll miss your tram.”
And then he remembered that he had not heard
a tram pass his door all the morning. Another
strike, of course. These Labor men needed a
strong hand. It was shameful them striking now,
when the city was being shelled. He turned to
explain to his wife, but she had gone back to
finish the frying of the bacon.
Then the gate swung open again, and a strange
man, looking like a navvy, begrimed and sweating,
rushed in, with a rifle in his hand.
“Quick! The Japs! Shelling the city ! They’ve
beaten us back. We’re retreating. They’re after
us. Little brown devils with rifles! Defend
yourself! ”
And he was gone.
Defend himself ? How could he ? He Didn’t
Think he could defend himself, and his wife, and
his children, and his home.
He ran round to the front garden, terrified.
And then the shells came. It was only a frag-
ment of a shell that had demolished a cottage
next his own. But it ploughed a big, irregular
furrow in his immaculate front lawn and wiped
away a yard of fence. It was immediately fol-
lowed by another tremendous explosion, and
though it happened on the other side of the street,
wiping it bare, his fowl-house vanished.
A moment before he had possessed some valu-
able poultry of an expensive breed. A team of
his hens was high up in the egg-laying competition
of the S. M. Herald, and going strong. It was
third on the list and still persevering. And now
there were no hens, no poultry —only feathers . . .
unless that wreck of a rooster, vaguely wondering
whether it was the rooster next door that had torn
his tail away, could be called poultry.
He ran inside, suddenly bilious.
His wife and the children huddled about him.
He gasped, “The Japs! They’ll be here in a
minute or two.”
“You mustn’t let them!” his wife promptly
insisted. “ It’s trespass. Where’s the police ? ”
He remembered that he had not seen a police-
man all the morning.
“ Quick ! Barricade the doors ! ” he cried, and
was suddenly sick.
His wife flew to bolt the front door.
“Oh, if I only had a rifle !” he groaned.
But he wouldn’t have known how to use one if
he had had it. He was a Didn’t-Think Aus-
tralian. He didn’t believe in conscription—taking
a chap away from his office. Still, if he only had
a rifle in his hand, he thought, he would have felt
safer.
“We must get away,” he cried, as a heavier
thunder shook the house. But where? Where
would he and the family be safe now ? He sat,
huddled, shaking;, listening, wiping his mouth
with a handkerchief —perhaps for lialf-an-hour.
And then the explosions seemed to get further
off. It" was like a thunderstorm passing away.
So it was all right. The enemy had been beaten
back, as he knew they would, and he was Saved !
Only, he would claim compensation for his lawn
and the fence and the fowls.
He ventured to open the door and go out on to
the verandah. Mosman was in ruins, smoking,
flaming. The street in which he lived was no
longer anything but a blackened and shapeless
row of brick-heaps. But his house, on the height
of Mosman, overlooking the city, still stood,
minus a chimney, but practically unharmed.
And everywhere people were running, aimlessly
and frenziedly running, half-dressed and crying
out. Groans and women ! s shrieks came through
the reeking smoke. Next door, through the
shattered gap in the fence, he saw one of the
Jones brats, a little fair-haired girl, pinned be-
neath a beam, dead.
Then down the street, at a quick trot, came a
little squad of things in kharki—diminutive,
smoke-blackened and muddy things—with rifles
and bayonets fixed.
“The Japs!” he shrieked, and with the
thought of his wife, his children, his home, beat-
ing confusedly in his brain, he rushed-to the front
gate, leaping the furrow across his: lawn. He
would defend them, anyway.
The leading Jap flung open the gate, and
paused, with bayonet ready. ,
“ Out of the way ! ” he cried roughly in Eng-
lish. “We want your house to signal from.”
The Didn’t-Think Australian recognised
him. He was a quiet little Jap gentleman
whom he had often seen in the streets
of Sydney—a merchant or something—smoking
a little black pipe and wearing a hard black
hat. But now he was in uniform, with a badge
on his arm; and he was pointing a rifle
with a wicked-looking little bayonet on its end
straight at him. .
“You can’t come here!’’ the Didn’t-Think
Australian shouted. “It’s ray house, my home !
The quiet little Jap merchant merely lowered
his bayonet a little and jabbed him cleanly in the
stomach, drawing the weapon out with a vicious
twist.
The Didn’t-Think Australian slithered down
sideways, and the Jap signalling men raced into
the house. He saw them, mistily, on the roof,
busy rigging up a sort of sliding pole.
Then—he Didn’t Think anymore. In fact, with
half of his bowels trailing on the lawn in front of
him, there wasn’t much left for the Didn’t-Think
Australian to think with.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lord, and the Big Landlord, with
Special Reference to John Tebbutt.
Among the men who entered his Christian pro-
test against the Bukns-Johnson boxing match
was Mr. John Tebbutt, one of the big and very
rich landlords whose properties hem in the half-
dead Cornstalk town of Windsor (all the country
towns where the big landlord system prevails are
dreary, dreamy, sleepy, unprogressive and half-
dead). Here are some quotations from Mr.
Tebbutt’s protest:—
In the recent degrading exhibition at the Stadium on
the day following the anniversary of the birth of Him
who was the very ideal of love and goodwill, we see the
legitimate fruits of that inordinate desire for sport which
has heen rampant in this State for a long time past. In
fact, the desire for sport has become almost national
insanity.... We have gradually descended to the craze
for football with its attendant brutalities and fatalities,
and now we have reached a lower stage in the course of
degradation in that we tolerate public exhibitions of
brutal prize-fighting Looking at the widespread wor-
ship of mere brute force, and the encouragement given to
the late disgusting exhibition by men occupying highly
important positions in the political machinery of the
State, one is inclined to fear that New South Wales will
soon hardly be a fit place for a decent man to live in.
The Bulletin is always pleased to see anybody,
even a rich landlord with a reputation as a rigid
exactor of high rents, trying to follow in the
Lord’s footsteps. By way of drawing theattention
of Mr. Tebbutt and similar rich landlords to a
still more important matter in which they might
follow the Lord closely, this paper appends a
condensed statement of the land system which
Jehovah appointed, and which was handed down
along with the Ten Commandments and other
decrees for the guidance of man. It is condensed
from Milman’s “History of the Jews,” pages 99,
100 and 101 :
The assignment of the different estates—the average of
which we will assume at about 20 acres, as a further
deduction should be made at this period, on account of
the unconquered parts of the territory—seems to have
been left to the local Government of the tribe. ... The
great principle of this law was the inalienability of
estates. Houses in walled towns might be sold in per-
petuity, if unredeemed within the year; land only
for a limited period. At the jubilee every estate reverted
without repurchase to the original proprietor. Even
during this'period it might be redeemed should the pro-
prietor become rich enough. . . . This remarkable
agrarian law secured the 'political equality of the people ,
and anticipated all the mischiefs so fatal to the early re-
publics of Greece and Italy, the appropriation of the
whole territory of the State by a rich and powerful
landed oligarchy . . .
(consisting of persons like Mr. John Tebbutt).
In the Hebrew State the improvident individual might
reduce himself and his family to penury or servitude, but
he could not perpetuate a race of slaves or paupers. . . .
Thus the body of the people were an independent
yeomanry residing on their hereditary farms, the boun-
daries of which remained for ever of the same extent. . . .
(In other words, the Lord made special provision
against the arising of a class like that represented
by Mr. Tebbutt.)
Large properties would by no means have increased
the general wealth, while they might have endangered
the independence of the people.... All the sons inherited ;
the eldest had a double portion
The Hebrew lawgiver... positively prohibited, not
merelv usury, hut all interest whatever on money lent to
a Hebrew. . .. Money might be lent with profit and
advantage only to a foreigner. Even pledges, or goods
taken in pawn, were under strict regulations. Nothing
absolutely necessary to life was to be retained. ... Rai-
ment was to be restored before nightfall; the raiment of
a widow was not to be taken at all in pledge. The house
was sacred, and could not be entered to seize the g'oods
in pawn. ,
Each estate was held on the tenure of military service ;
all Israel was one standing army. ...
Each man dwelt under ms own vine or his own fig-
tree. ...
Most particular indeed was the Lord that His
people didn’t dwell under Tebbutt’s vine or
Tebbutt’s fig-tree, and have to pay rent for it.
His whole political system was a system of small
independent farmers each cultivating his own bit
of ground. He loathed, denounced, hated and
prohibited the big landlord, the rent-collector, the
accumulator of great estates, and all the methods
by which the owners of big estates enforce pay-
ment of the back rent. He didn’t allow the
bailiff to enter the house door under any circum-
stances whatsoever. And as these land laws
were handed down along with the Ten Command-
ments it is to be presumed that both were meant
for the world at large ; if the Lord’s land system
is no longer binding it seems a fair inference that
His Ten Commandments have also died out.
There is no denunciation of boxing or similar
exercises in the Bible ; the Scriptural brick is
thrown at Tebbutt—not at Johnson. Therefore
the Church, if it wants to avoid the damnation
about which it discourses so much, should start
its most energetic crusade against the whole tribe
of country landlords—it is the country landlord
against whom the Lord’s land policy is specially
directed—instead of worrying quite so much
about Burns and Johnson. And Mr. Tebbutt
might reconsider his position, and try to decide
whether it isn’t his own class which threatens to
make " N.S.W. hardly a fit place for decent men
to live in ” rather than the Burns and Johnson
class or even the raucous footballer.
♦
The Benefits and Advantages of Tom Mann.
Tom Mann, once a beershop-keeper in England,
once a professional street-obstructor and disturber
of church services in Melbourne, was arrested
last Saturday at Broken Hill for being a nuisance.
The miners, largely under his direction, have been
picketing the Broken Hill Proprietary mine, where
a most foolish proposal had been made to reduce
wages. So far as the directors and shareholders
are concerned, it doesn’t matter so very much just
now whether the Broken Hill Proprietary mine
is picketed or not. Unless the prices of silver and
lead go up, there are, according to present appear-
ances, very few dividends left in the once great
Broken Hill Proprietary. In any case, the
Federal Arbitration Court had been appealed to,
and that body was making all possible haste to
deal with the matter, so the picketing seemed
rather unnecessary. But Tom Mann was on the
scene, and Thomas is a mighty gasometer before
the Lokd. True, he is a blank as regards new ideas;
and his methods are just the old, foolish, wooden-
lieaded, futile methods which he brought with
him from England—the methods that fail most
of the time. They consist of a sort of half-hearted
insurrection, which isn’t definite enough to have
a chance of success, and which is just about large
enough to raise a lot of dust with its feet. Com-
bined with this there is a vast amount of loose
oratory. Now, a mere half-insurrection and a
desultory'thro wing of jam-tins and calling out of
“booh” lead nowhere. They never have led
anywhere. In the Broken Hill matter there were
only two logical courses to pursue—either to de-
pend wholly on Arbitration, or else (which,
though logical, is quite impossible) to seize and
fortify Broken Hill, capture the railway as a
source of food supply, lay in arms, create a Pro-
visional Government, and start a revolution in a
business-like South American fashion. But Iom
Mann didn’t try to be logical. There was some
picketing, a little waving of the red nag, and
some futile disturbance, in the course of which
certain clerks, who had rolled up to pay
the miners the wages of which they are badly
in need, were slightly injured. Also, there
were wild assurances by T. Mann that victory
was certain—the same assurances that he has
made in the middle of so many mismanaged
scraps; and there was some amazing talk about a
certain tailings heap being the best site on which
to mount cannon, and about taking the position
by storm. Thomas hadn’t any cannon, and he
probably wouldn’t know one end of the weapon
from another if he possessed it. There is no evi-
dence before the court to show that he ever owned
a pop-gun in his life, or that he even threw a beer-
pot with good aim at an unruly customer. It
was all the empty hifalutin’ of Augustus Moddle,
the youngest and most harmlessly-desperate
boarder in Mrs. Todgeks’ hash tower. Then the
police arrived, and blew on Tom Mann’s insurrec-
tion, and most of it fell down right there. Mann
himself was “run in,” and the siege of the
Proprietary mine was, to all intents and pur-
poses, raised. Now, there is good reason to
hope that the Federal Arbitration Court will
settle the trouble, but even when the trouble is
settled the question will remain—what is the
good of T. Mann ? He hasn’t got a single idea for
running a strike apart from the old ideas that
everybody knows. He is a record failure. He
breathes forth threatenings and great deeds of
resistance, yet when the Law gets tired of all this,
Tom Mann is run in as easily as an undersized
drunk. He is a burlesque of the middle-aged
boy pirate description, utterly devoid of construc-
tive power, and a mere bellower of great phrases.
He is capable of picketing anything, from the
Tower of London down to a fruit barrow, until
the police come; when they arrive the utter re-
sourcelessness of Thomas is apparent. He is
below the level of Cleon the tanner, for CLEON,
though his cataract of eloquence has been the jest
of ages, at least did things. It is a depressing
reflection upon the public intelligence that a loud-
mouthed, halfpenny character of the Thomas de-
scription should have a following and should get a
hearing in Australia. Mann’s case is one of those
which seems to call for permanent exile and a fine
of 6d. —6d. for the insurrection and permanent
exile for being a very monotonous joke. But
until a Minister of Wit and Humor is appointed
and his department drafts an Act for the Sup-
pression of Bud Jokes it doesn t seem as if -A.us-
tralia could hope to get level with persons like
T. Mann.
Picketing.
Just when the men were most excited at Broken
Hill, the unions published a telegram from Hol-
man, barrister and Labor M.L.A., telling them
that “ picketing, as such, is not an offence known
to the law.” If Holman stopped at that, he must
have been talking as a lawyer, answering a specific
question ; if he were speaking as a friend of the
unions he ought to have told them something
more. If he did tell them something more and
the union bosses didn’t tell it to the crowd, then
the union bosses ought to have ink spilled over
them. It would be just as absurd and just
as dangerous to tell an angry, excited crowd that
to kill a man isn’t an offence known to the law.
It all depends on how the killing is done. It also
all depends on how the picketing is done. The
older Broken Hill unionists ought to have known
that better than most people ; for when the other
big strike happened in ’92, and Sleath, Fergu-
son, and a few more were arrested, there were
miles of legal talk about picketing. A man, it
was then made quite clear, doesn’t get any special
powers or privileges when he becomes a picket.
He is just the same citizen, with the same
citizen rights, and no more, as he was be-
fore he ’listed. He can argue, persuade,
counsel, and within certain limits reproach
a fellow-citizen, just as any other , man
can in any street at any time ; but he can t use
any more intimidation, coercion or molestation
than any other man in the street. “Moral
suasion ” is a term that has had a lot of rough
wear, and is considerably frayed at the edges;
but the thing it implies still holds good—it is all
that is permissible to the picket. No doubt (and
this is where the trouble starts) the picket, as the
immediate representative of the strikers, feels
that he can’t win so long as he can only argue
with his tongue. Mostly he isn’t much use at
arguing with his tongue ; that isn t the tool he
earns his wages with, and he knows it will not
carry him very far. Therefore, 99 times out of 100,
he feels that his side must lose if he can’t use
something besides his tongue. There are only
two things for him to do in those circumstances:
go beyond the law (which, where a big crowd is
concerned, means revolution) or give up the strike
as a means of winning his ends. Putting revolu-
tion aside as quite out of place in a democratic
country, with one man one vote and universal
adult suffrage, then only the one course remains—
Arbitration. Yet that is the very thing which
Tom Mann’s section has been turning the miners
against. Arbitration, they said, means the
fixing of wages and labor conditions by a
“capitalistic” Judge,” a member of the
“master class.” No greater rubbish was ever
talked. Arbitration may have its weak points,
like everything else, but it is the only practical
alternative to the strike; and the break-down of
picketing almost every time it is tried proves the
futility of the strike method. The extent to
which picketing can go—and on that the success
or otherwise of the strike mainly depends in most
cases—is just as much in the hands of the “ capi-
talistic” Judge as Arbitration is; so, from that
point of view alone, the workers are not a bit
better off by adopting the strike method. And it
surely need not be argued that, from other points
of view, Arbitration has advantages which the
other plan can’t pretend to have.
The Prospective Federal Capital, and the
Prospective Drought, and the Late High
Temperatures, and the Barren Jack Irri-
gation Scheme, and Other Matters.
Mr. Clement Wragge, who is in Auckland (M.L.),
states that, as he predicted in 1906, Australia is gradually
again evolving drought conditions. The bad season in
Australia is only just beginning.— Sydney daily paper.
It is thought by Mr. Wade that no steps towards open-
ing up negotiations in terms of the Capital Sites Bill,
passed last Federal session, need be taken till the sur-
veyors have completed their work. “We have not yet
received detailed information as to the wishes of the
Federal Government," he said yesterday. “If the 900
square miles mentioned in the Act is to be taken to mean
the area for the city site, some difficulty might arise, but
if it is to mean the water catchment area as well, there
might not be any difficulty. The catchment area of the
Cotter River, for instance, covers 200 square miles.”—
Sydney daily paper.
Additional bush fires in the country are reported. In
the Yass district fires which are still burning have caused
damage to the extent of over £lOO,OOO. — Sydney daily
y< The' Barren Jack reservoir will serve to irrigate 1,500,000
acres of land.—Sydney daily paper.
There are at times quite a number of interesting
items to be extracted from the daily papers. The
above collection may be regarded as fairly enter-
taining. Among other things, it appears that the
Cotter River, which it is generally assumed is to
provide the water supply for the Australian capi-
tal, if that place should ever have the misfortune
to locate itself at Yassberra, has a catchment area
of 200 square miles. As a matter of fact, the
catchment area is more like 160 square miles, but
the mistake may pass. The State capital of
Sydney has a water catchment area of nearly 500
square miles, and most of it is in a good rainfall
district. If the Australian capital depends on a
water catchment area of less than one-third that
extent in a poor rainfall district, its chances look
blue. And it must be remembered that Sydney
is always increasing its water catchment area,
because the Government at Sydney has control of
320,000 square miles of country, and can expand
indefinitely ; while the Australian capital is to oe
limited to a fixed area, inside which it must do
the best it can. Also, the joy of learning that
the Cotter trickle has a catchment area of 200
square miles (which it really hasn’t) is somewhat
marred by the news that the Cotter is already in-
cluded among the feeders of the Barren Jack
reservoir. The Barren Jack reservoir has been
boomed a great deal as one of the glorious
advantages that would attach to an Australian
capital at Yassberra; but when one considers
that the State Government is to own Barren Jack,
and that the first business of that reservoir will
be to irrigate 1,500,000 acres of State lands—
and possibly more later on—and that there
is already another drought in view—a drought
which will seriously diminish the supply of
Barren Jack and greatly increase the demands
upon it, and which is liable to reduce the Cotter
to the same old thread of water that it always has
been in dry seasons—the joys of an Australian
capital somewhere adjacent to Barren Jack seem
to be less than they might be. Every summer,
too, there are in that district high temperatures
and huge bush-fires—the sort of things which
make evaporation tremendous, and greatly reduce
the resources of even such a reservoir as Barren
Jack is to be, while they are also calculated to in-
crease the demand upon it. Meanwhile the Snowy
River, on which it was originally proposed to
locate the Australian capital, is drifting use-
lessly into the sea. No State reservoir has
a first lien upon it. It isn’t used—apparently it
isn’t required—for irrigation. If an Australian
capital was planted upon it, that city would have
its own water supply instead of having a second
or third mortgage on a State-owned stream, and
getting what water could be spared after the
needs of State irrigation had been attended to.
The folly of placing the Australian capital where,
instead of depending on a splendid river supply
which the State isn’t using and apparently has no
desire or need to use, it must scramble with the
State for a share of the water which the State
badly requires for irrigation purposes, is some-
thing beyond belief. In dry seasons—the sort of
seasons which Clement Wragge declares are
again close at hand—the great Snowy River will
The Local Patriots.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T
There’s a danger-call from the distant West,
And the perilled North replies.
But the East and the South lie down to rest,
While the Hope of a Nation dies.
For the godly man puts his trust in God,
And he calls upon the Loard,
And lies at ease in the Land of Nod,
While the heathen whets his sword.
And the man unrighteous fears no foe ;
For a careless soul is he,
And he’s quite content that the world should go
To Hell or Eternity.
The “ Statesman” bangs on the busted drum
Of our noble ancestry,
And he pulls the leg of a deaf and dumb
And a blind democracy.
We’ve a cheap tin fleet, and a House of Fat—
We’ve a thin red line or two.
And we’ve several Governors ! Think of that!!
And a Governor-General who
Is a friend of the famous Edward Rex—
And we’ve Marshal Jawbone Nkild !
And the foe will flee and break their necks
When our “ Army” takes the field.
We’ve the man whose crown is a martyr’s fate —
Who strives with a grim intent
For the “Rights of Man” and the “Perfect
State,”
And a seat in Parliament;
Who swings the arm of the parish pump
With a patriotic zeal;
And blunts his axe on the local stump
For the sake of the common weal.
We’ve a host of men, it is safe to state,
Who’d rush with a zeal intense
Were the danger near their own back gate
Or the hole in their own back fence.
But the danger-cry from the North and West
Is a cry they will not hear.
Till the roaring of guns disturb their rest
And the Hour of their Fate is near.
N.s.w.
TOM BEASLEY.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER* GOLD, SILVER.
WORKS ARE NOW READY TO RECEIVE.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
SALE & EXCHANGE LIBRARY for keeping up your
supply of Fresh Subjects. Join it and Save Money.
Send to us or please call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
The Mediterranean Fleet, by its fine work
at the scene of the earthquake, has helped show
the world that there is nothing so noble as the
humanisation of humanity. Noble deeds are the
arc lamps of confraternity, and the spirit of
D.C.L. —both the degree and the whisky— helps
keep that lamp aburning.*
still be running to waste, while the parched
settlers of Riverina will be demanding the water
bein » us ©d by the Australian capital, and
the dried-up Australian capital will be demanding
the water which is wanted by parched Riverina.
And it is proposed to do all this insanity—why ?
Apparently in order to place the Federal port at
Jervis Bay, only 87 miles south of Sydney, where
tit intercept the trade from Adelaide and
Melbourne, from Hay, Wyalong, Cooma, Tumut
—in fact, from about two-fifths of the railway
system of N.S.W.; instead of placing that port
at Twofold Bay, where it would have to build up
a new trade of its own from Monaro and Eastern
Gippsland. All these lunacies are proposed with
a view to placating Sydney, which cares so little
about the matter that when one meeting was
called in an obscure hall to howl over the State’s
grievances in this connection, it only attracted a
handful of people, and when an attempt was
made to call another meeting the utter absence of
any sign of attendance broke the promoters up,
and the doors were not even opened.
The Place That Went to the Dogs.
Camperdown, a bankrupt and disorderly munici-
pality adjoining the city of Sydney, has at last
amalgamated with tho city, and thus it may be
that a beginning of Greater Sydney has been
made. But even with Camperdown taken off the
list there are fully two score municipalities in the
N.S.W. metropolitan district. That means that
there is still a lot of amalgamation to do, and the
processes by which Camperdown was amalga-
mated are much too slow. First of all that muni-
cipality went mad ; then it went bankrupt; then
it went to the dogs for want of money wherewith
to fill up the holes in its pavements and to eradi-
cate the scrub in the streets. While it was at the
dogs the amalgamation idea started, and the
corporation of Sydney visited it almost daily in
its kennel for some eight or ten years, and brought
it a bit of meat, and called it “Towzer,” and
made offers for taking the place over; ejecting
the bailiff; cleaning, repairing, re-paving and
widening the worst streets ; and blowing the moth
of ages off the town hall. Camperdown at last
consented, though it had to shove its aldermen
out of the way very hard or it wouldn’t have
been allowed to consent; but there is no Greater
Sydney to be built up on these lines. The pro-
cess i 3 too slow, and life is too short. The
Bulletin still fails to discover any method that
looks more promising than that of simply bump-
ing an Amalgamation Aot through Parliament,
and thus Doing the Job without any negotiations
with aldermen or other dubious characters. Then
each old municipality could be made, for a time,
a ward of Greater Sydney, and by a system of
special differential rates, levied for the purpose of
reducing the debts, the liabilities of all the wards
could in time be brought to a common level per
head. When that effect was arrived at there
would be no reason for retaining the old boun-
daries, and the great city could be divided anew
on more sensible lines. The capture of Camper-
down renders further expansion very urgent, for
the new addition makes Sydney a place of curious
and unworkable shape. Instead of being a com-
pact city as before, it is now a place with a curious
sort of tail flying off in a westerly direction, and
when the gaud mayor is out exercising his dignity
and authority at the south end of his jurisdiction,
he will have to get round a corner very sharply,
else he may slop officially over into Newtown,
where he will be a usurper.
♦
Tasmania’s Health Officer and the Hobart
“ Murky.”
Dr. Elkington, Tasmania’s Chief Health Officer,
has disturbed the sleep of Hobart Mercury at
last. One of Elkington’s honorary jobs is that of
director of the Medical Branch of the Education
Department, which has a staff of three doctors—
including Dr. Gertrude Halley, a Victorian
girl, who does the bulk of the inspection work.
As the result of overhauling 10,136 children, the
hon. director finds that 27'8 per cent, in the city and
13 - 82 per cent, in the country haven’t got perfect
eyesight, and 10‘68 per cent, in the country and 8 - 49
per cent, in the city are deficient enough to be
put into classes by themselves. As to post-nasal
growths, 24'82 per cent, in the city and 13'7 per
cent, in the country are in what the branch calls
the I.E.P. class —that is, the class suffering
badly enough to sustain Interference with Educa-
tional Progress. There are other defects, which
are put into figures; and after the branch had
cried them aloud into the ear of the public, the
Mercury turned over and asked what Dr.
Elkington meant by disturbing its rest like that.
Evidently, having woke up a bit more, it decided
that Elkington was much too enthusiastic a
health officer to be kept quiet; wherefore it de-
cided that, if he would make reports, the Depart-
ment, anyhow, oughtn’t to publish them and
make people feel uncomfortable. “Defective
eyesight 1 Defective hearing! What’s wrong,”
the Mercury, in effect, wants to know, “with the
good old way of boxing the youngster’s ears
to make him hear or see 1 And if he
is mentally deficient, or has some other
trouble that might yield to prompt treatment,
what’s the matter with the stick or the strap as a
corrective?” It’s rubbish “making a fuss” and
waking people up, and the Mercury “enters an
emphatic process against the publication of such
documents.” There weren’t any when it was a
child—and see what a bright, rippling, militant
Mercury it is to-day !
Richard Teece v. the N.S.W. Daily Press.
“ D.” writes :
Both the S.vdtiey morning dailies climbed on to a high
stump (11/l/’O9), and therefrom talked very severely to
Richard Teece for the “ anti-English views ” expressed
by him in the Herald on the previous Saturday. And
yet Teece was guilty of no more than a number of horse-
sense observations —ordinary to the brink of being plati-
tudinous. Teece said: “Because the English had their
own way in the world fifty years ago, they think they can
have it still. They will not take the trouble to find out
the likes and dislikes and wants and peculiarities
of other people.” This pained the Herald intensely.
“ After all,” it said with tearful vagueness, “the bulldog
breed tells." It could not credit that a business boy of
this breed could be dull and foolishly conservative. Yet
American and German and French business men have
been saying for the past 15 years the identical thing about
the methods of English business men that the Herald
objects to. The writer heard it a score of times from
different travellers on a train journey between New York
and San Francisco a decade ago. The Yankee claims that
he and most other sane business men go to a foreign
country, find what it wants, make the article to specifica-
tion as nearly as possible, and unload it on a pleased
consumer. The Britisher makes his Brummagem goods
for export according to Brummagem specification, and
grows faint with shocked surprise to find the article doesn’t
suit the consignees.
The Herald reckons Tf.ece’s view, that the English are
as often as not “ hostile to the colonies," to be “ absurd."
It isn’t. To anyone with recent experience of England,
it is a truism. The Englishman who is a “ Liberal ”
and Freetrader, who reads the Daily Chronicle or
the Daily News, or the Manchester Guardian with
his matutinal egg, detests what the Herald calls
“the colonies” in a very whole-hearted fashion in-
deed. And he detests the Commonwealth most of
all. The thing that most rankles with him is the
disgraceful unwillingness of a section of Australians
to defend themselves. He considers —and with a good
deal of reason—that there is something particularly con-
temptible about Australia’s action in poling on the already
armament-burdened Mother Country for battleships, etc.,
when it is better able to afford a fleet of its own than
those Dago States of South America which support
formidable squadrons. The fiscal policy of the Common-
wealth angers your typical British Liberal —and induces
him to talk “ Tariff Reform without Preference.” And
the borrowing tactics of Australia’s over-numerous State
Premiers afflict Liberal, Conservative and Laborite alike
with the horrors every time they think about them.
A wail of dissent ascends at Teece’s prophecy that
England “ will sink to be a country like Switzerland—
a hunting ground for tourists.” As a fact England
is largely that now. It is the world’s playground.
Claridge’s, the Carlton, the Savoy, and the score of other
huge London hotels that have followed in their wake of
recent years would file their schedules in short order
were it not for their foreign patrons. The best of the
deer forests and grouse moors in Scotland are paid for
with American or French money. The most expensive
“beats” on the best salmon rivers are rented by
foreigners. Teece is right as to “ the ignorance of the
English concerning what goes on outside England ”
Kiplinq made the same remark years ago in more striking
words. Teece is right as to the appallingly bad
advertisement travelling politicians of the Bent breed
give this country. He is right—if the results of bye-
elections throughout the United Kingdom during the
past 18 months count for anything—in his prophecy that
“ the Conservatives will get in at the next election, and
that their great cry will be for a tariff,” and the Herald
is demonstrably wrong in its calm statement that “ the
majority of Britons would still all bite together at any
party that proposed to rob them of Freetrade." The
huge majority of those Britons who have been given the
chance have been voting hard against Freetrade for
nearly two years. Richard Teece left Australia a few
month ago a hard-shell admirer of all things English—the
type of citizen the local daily paper best loves. Being a
naturally intelligent and honest human being he re-
adjusted his view when he got near enough to conditions
in the Cold Land to gain a proper insight into them. The
local daily is still, politically speaking, ’way back in the
Cobden epoch. To a paper whose political views are over
half-a-century old the frank impressions on foreign condi-
tions of a eommonsense business-man are, of necessity,
utterly revolting.
The Men Who Missed the ’Bus, and the
Other Men who Caught It, and Found it
was a Hearse.
A letter from the Victorian press gallery :
After much finessing and more confabulation, the Tory
gang that has bossed Victoria these many years, whose
career of corruption and spoliation culminated in the
defeat and subsequent rout of Bent, has managed to
save itself from the worst consequences of its mis-
deeds by seducing the alleged Liberals into its ser-
vice, chiefly through the old cry of “ Labor domination."
Perceiving the force of the brick only when the missile
caught him in the bingie, so to speak, Bent finally re-
signed ; but not till he was assured that his suc-
cessor, Murray, would choose his Cabinet equally
from his (Murray’s) immediate followers and
those of the discredited and disgraced Brighton
Bello wer. That the position is irreconcileable
and impossible of performance is manifest. Murray
and his followers stated during the election
campaign that Bent and Bentism were anathema:
that an inquiry into the land transactions of the late
Government was imperative ; that the matter of Bent’s
unauthorised payments of public money during December
must be dealt with; and that Governor Carmichael’s
action in granting the defeated Premier a dissolution
merited swift condemnation. Now they share office
with the supporters of these objectionable acts; they
sit cheek-by-jowl with Che very men who com-
mitted these offences against the public; they
throw into Opposition the party that has for years
advocated a land-tax, land reform, genuine closer settle-
ment, and other democratic measures, though they them-
selves belauded the same policy before the electors.
Office hungry, they have sold themselves for a mess of
dripping—for the scraps that Fat casts aside. They have
caught the ’bus, but they will assuredly find that the
vehicle is bound for the cemetery, and that their political
graves are already dug.
Bent disappears, truly, and Murray replaces him ; but
little is to be hoped for from Murray, Watt, Billson
and co., and nothing at all from Graham, Mcßride, or
McKenzie. What hope of an effective land-tax is there,
or of electoral reform to ensure just representation, or of
such financial firmness and honesty as will force the land-
grabbers to tax themselves equally with the city workers,
while the landowners still have half the say in the Lower
House and the whole in the Upper?
As for the men who missed the ’bus, the 20 members
who stay with Leader Prendergast in Opposition, Heaven
knows what excuse they have for their existence. They
sit in Opposition—presumably therefore they will oppose
the Government’s policy. Doubtless some of the measures
brought forward will meet with their approval, but it
doesn’t seem to have dawned on them that they are not
elected merely to criticise other people’s work. After the
recent election, Prendergast’s position was that, to assist
in carrying out the policy of advanced democracy, he could
offer a solid, reliable body of 21 votes. With 12 or 15 Liberals
—and there were 22available —he and his party could have
taken office. Now he has to take such sops as are flung
to him or that he can wring by obstruction or bargaining.
For the bargaining is there —the whole story of the last
four years is summed up in that one word —and it
would have been just as feasible and a good deal
easier and more 'creditable to have bargained with
the Liberals than with the shandy-gaff Cabinet now in
office. Also, for the first time in the history of the party,
a Labor Government assisted by the Liberals could have
counted on the support of the Age —which means much.
But, apparently, Labor is satisfied to wait until it can
go the whole hog on its own—for which very
reason it is likely to be long before it gets the
chance. Even at its present rate of progress, it
will be at least 10 years before it can command a
majority of the House, and 10 years is a longish political
life—of the 10 new Ministers only five were members of
Parliament 10 years ago. Had Labor joined with the
other Progressives, it must speedily have proved to
the dense bucolic and the still denser Fat intellect
that it wasn’t going to bust up the ’ome or
fracture the marriage tie or do anything violent
and sudden ; in fact, it must have proved itself
an advantageous, progressive Government, and then
there would have been a long succession of Labor Govern-
ments. But Labor prefers its isolation, and Fat loves to
keep it that way ; the position suits Fat beautifully.
Now how long is Labor going to do the things that suit
Fat beautifully ?
4.
Bull, Described by Himself.
London Daily Mail— which, being an English
paper, should know whereof it writes—curiously
stultifies (in its issue of 8/12/’08) the local remit-
tance-men, and so forth, who have been assailing
Richard Teece for his “anti-Englishism” these
last few days. As to the Englishman’s alleged
decadence the Mail says :
That there exists a prejudice against Englishmen, and
especially against Londoners, in Canada and in many
of the United States, especially the farming districts, is
admitted by all who have travelled on the American con-
tinent. ... There is sufficient ground for it to justify
the Times special correspondent, whom we quoted yes-
terday, in describing the “ degenerate Cockney type ” as
the “ curse of the Empire.”
As to the modern Briton’s alleged laziness, these
words are inscribed :
He is born tired. Sometimes he is pathetically anxious
to do well, but his interest slackens so quickly. He is
like an engine without driving power- He goes about
listlessly and with a vacant look. He has not any par-
ticular vices. If he drinks, it is because the public-house
is handy. If he gambles, he does it “just for a bit o’
fun,” and invariably loses. He has no backbone, no grit.
And again :
Their curse is their craving for amusement. Dr. Shad-
well, author of “ Industrial Efficiency,” said : “ We are a
nation of play. Work is a nuisance, an evil necessity to
be shirked and hurried over as quickly as possible, in
order that we get away to the real business of life—the
amusements which occupy our minds, and for which no
trouble is too great."
As for the Englishman’s alleged “ conceit,” which
Teece has been most savagely flailed for com-
menting on, the Daily Mail says :
He is specially afflicted by the disease of self-satis-
faction. . . . When Mr. Mosely sent his commission of
labor leaders to the United States, the secretary of a
certain society said: “I have nothing to learn in my
trade from America, and Americans should come to us to
learn, and why should I go to study what they are doing
there?”
Even Mr. F. Maddison, of the ironfounders, was inclined
at first to pooh-pooh the idea that there was anything to
be learnt. “We don’t want the American system of
harder work and shorter lives,” he said. Yet the dele-
gates found no evidence that the American workman was
“worn out by the strain."
And again here is a letter, signed “ Anxious
Father,” from the same issue of the same paper:
To the Editor of the Daily Mail.
Sir,—Could any of your readers tell me how I could set
about apprenticing three boys, aged from 16 to 19, to the
important professions of football, golf and cricket ? Are
the premiums high ?
As matters stand at present, under our Freetrade
foreign labor system, I think the professions stated above
will be the best in the near future, as the manufacturing
industry in which I am engaged, and which has helped to
nourish my sons to their present ages, is on its last legs.
The above are only samples of what may be found
in the London press any morning. They go to
show that Teeck wasn’t so flagrantly wrong as the
Sydney dailies and the aforementioned remit-
tance-men suggest in his view that the same Eng-
lishman is getting utterly sick of his “Freetrade
foreign labor system.”
Victoria held its breath, a few days ago, as it
read how it just missed another Sunshine horror
on New Year’s Night. The driver of an excursion
train from Buninyong to Ballarat mistook the
signal of the Adelaide express for his own, and
went ahead when he should have stopped to let
the other train pass. Only the quickness of the
signalman and the watchfulness of the two express
drivers prevented another holocaust; as it was,
the heavy express pulled up less than a train-
length behind the loaded excursion. The usual
departmental board is now asking the driver what
he meant by mistaking the express signal for his
own ; but a much more pertinent query would be
“ Why are signals so placed that it is possible for a
driver to make such mistakes ? ” One reason why
supervisors are placed in superior and well-paid
positions is that they are supposed to be able to
guard against and forestall the consequences of
mistakes made by their inferiors. If they don’t
do so, then much less expensive men would fill
the bill.
♦
Apparently our old friend Stinking Fish, Esq.,
who used to assure everybody that our “ Social-
istic legislation ” and the Six Hatters lie, and so
on, made any rush of people to Australia wholly
impossible, is quite dead now. For instance, the
S. M. Herald dug this piece of information the
other day from one of the 695 new settlers who
came out by the Pericles :
You people in Australia need not be afraid. The
stream of immigration is setting in out here. When we
left it was not possible to get a third-class passage or an
immigrant passage in any steamer to Australia up to
March. All berths were booked to the end of February.
People are tired of Canada. Those of us who think and
read are coming out to Australia.
Apparently Federation has lent some new attrac-
tions to Australia. The pity of it is that unless
the Australian Government finds a heap more
velocity than it has shown hitherto in the matter
of the Northern Territory and the graduated lafid-
tax, this influx may become a backwash, through
lack of land for settlers, before Andrew Fisher
knows where he is.
♦
Melbourne Age, with which, perhaps, the wish
is pa to the thought, propounds the suggestion
that Deakin is going to do what Kidston did.
It says :
Mr. Deakin will countenance no forcing of the pace in
the direction of a union of the Parliamentary forces out-
side the Labor party. He recognises that the union will
come naturally early in the cominy session , and when it
does come, he is determined that a genuinely democratic
Liberalism, and not a nervous, timid Conservatism, shall
be the guiding spirit of the party which replaces the
Labor caucus on the Treasury benches.
If the union of Deakin and such persons as
Joseph Cook, Irvine, Bruce Smith, and Knox
comes to pass, either naturally or unnaturally,
either next session or at any other time, then
indeed it will be evident that coalitions are
Alfred’s weak point, and the cause of his un-
doing. It took him years to recover from his
coalition with Duncan Gillies. Then he coalesced
to some extent with Reid, and the results were
lamentable. If, after being twice rescued, Alfred
falls affably overboard a third time—well, he may
drown that third time.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ The Duchess of Dantzic."
Theatre Royal “ The Breed of the Treshams.*
Criterion “ Man to Man.”
Palace “ The Broken Home.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaclarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Bijou “ The Unwritten Law."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
King’s. “ The 10.30 Down Express."
Glaclarium Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
“Robinson Crusoe” hoists his sail and
departs from Sydney Palace, after the matinee on
Friday afternoon. Robinson’s next island will be
at the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle. The adver-
tisements are now shouting in the ear of the popu-
lace that the last nights of the Palace season are
dropping like ripe apples from the Tree of Time,
and that it behoves him who has not yet seen the
show to hang on the rear of Johnson’s tram and
rush to the scene of action.
** * *
“ The Duchess of Dantzic,” at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), probably won’t be the
boom that “The Merry Widow’’was; and yet
from several points of view it deserves to make
the box-office considerably more happy than did the
previous over-rated production. There have been
mighty few comic operas with a less disconnected
or more interesting yarn. The lyrics are better
than fair, and the show gives some of the young
fellows a chance that they make good use of.
Reginald Roberts moulders in his grave before the
second act starts; Ban took can catch an
early boat to Manly; Percy hasn’t got
a part at all ; and others aren’t wanted
after Napoleon goes into the Emperor business.
This gives Hughes and O’Connor in particular
more stage-room ; also the fact that the principal
funny man is only allowed on the Emperor’s
premises at infrequent intervals gives little Miss
Betty Ohls more time to nuzzle close into the
affections of the public, in a part that suits her
2764 per cent, better than the very moderately
merry Widow did.
*& * *
Julius clambers into his inadequate mauve
smock for the last time this Theatre Royal season
on Friday night. After that date the lions will
be turned out to grass, the old Roman torturers
will go back to their original blacksrnithery jobs,
and the late Pagan revellers will start “resting.”
For “ The Breed of the Treshams ” is due on the
following Saturday eve ; and in that play, which
deals with the days when Charles I. was King,
lions and old Romans would be out of place.
** * *
“ The Gayest of the Gay ” ceases its career
of gory merriment at Sydney Criterion to-morrow
night. “ Man to Man,” a “ convict drama,” suc-
ceeds it. The writer has no personal acquaintance
with “Man to Man,” yetis he prepared (after the
fashion of Alderman Ivey, of Broken Hill) to
stake the life of his or anyone else’s child that the
piece contains a convicted hero who is “in-no-
cent, ” a brutal John Dunn or two at least, one
comic malefactor, and enough blood to create a
freshet in the Cotter River. If the aforesaid
child’s life is spared the new production is sure to
boom.
** * *
Three-quarters of a year is the space that
lies between Miss Marie Narelle’s penultimate
and ultimate concerts in Sydney. Whatever may
be the reason—possibly it is improved health,
brought about by the singer’s long tour along the
northern riverine area—the soprano’s voice, as
lifted in the Town Hall last Saturday, has vastly
improved in volume, clearness and brilliancy.
Perhaps from those rivers along the routes whereof
she warbled Miss Narelle drew largesse in the form
of murmuring sound. She deserved the audience
that crowded the hall floor and galleries, but it
THE PALACE OE WOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Woe is rampant at Sydney Palace just
now. That ancient sorrow, “ East Lynne,” sobs
at full length from Monday to Friday night. On
Saturday (16th) a new heart-wringer, entitled
“ The Broken Home,” totters in with a tear-
stained countenance.
Have you heard of the Palace of Woe
Where the gay merrymakers all go
Where they dote, where they gloat
With a sob in each throat
At the “ bellow ” that harries them so?
(Yo! ho!)
It’s good to be harried
And happily married
About half-past eleven or so.
Have you heard of the Palace of Pain
Where a good name gets many a stain,
Where they sigh, where they die,
And the villain defy
Whilst the heroine leaves in the rain ?
(Explain
Why she always totters
Away on her trotters
With no gingham to keep off the rain !)
Have you heard of the Palace of Hate,
Where they plot at a terrible rate,
Where they dress, and confess,
And the ancient noblesse
Has got not one thought in its pate ?
(’Tis Fate !
He shouts at the Hebrew.
Who toils for his Shebrew
By delivering writs at the gate.)
Have you heard of the Palace of Hope,
Where the hero escapes by a rope
And all’s right ere the light
Is put out for the night
And the train-catchers stand up and grope,
And slope,
«For trains that are scooting
And shrieking and hooting
And shunting
And grunting
And gliding
And sliding
Upon the main line and the grass-covered siding
Right at twelve-o’clock prompt,
Leaving those who have rompt
To the station at 12.3 to curse and to mope ?
N.s.w.
KODAR.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan’
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Hand
Have you made permanent arrangements yet
for your Lone Hand supply? Don’t trust to
casual buying. Order from your newsagent or
direct from the office, and see that you get every
number. It is not well to miss one, for thus you
will lose the thread of the great serial, “The
Commonwealth Crisis,” the “Melba Memoirs,”
and Brady’s “River Rovers.”
The February No. now going through the
press contains some great features. Jack London,
the famous author, tells of his early-day struggles.
It’s a vivid, soul-stirring yarn. Norman Lindsay
contributes a fine colored plate “ Breaking In
and there are 50 other great features.
We have repeatedly to disappoint patrons with
“ Sold out; can’t supply.” See that you get your
Lone Hand regularly.
214- George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with tho
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PIXX AND KING iSXREEXS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST- MUTUAL
Lowest Rates Charqed.
and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
was a greedy audience, and insisted on getting a
lot more than it had paid for. With her voice
unwearied, and as fresh as at the start, Miss
Narelle piled encore upon encore, and smiled
whimsically and indulgently upon the melo-
gluttons. Lambert’s “Lament” and Alliteens
“Song of Thanksgiving” were the singers first
numbers, and the two strongly-contrasted com-
positions were given with the different artistic
values they demand. But it was with “Kularney
and “Kathleen Mavourneen” that she achieved
her fullest measure of success. The songs
of the revolutionary order, such as “ The Men ot
the North” and “ The West’s Awake,” were also
given with dramatic thrill and received with
enthusiasm. It may be mentioned that the songs
did not make for collision with the Australian
Government. Miss Kathleen Dorahy was the
pleasant contralto of Miss Narelle’s new company,
and a fetching-looking accompanist did well on
the teeth of the piano. Mr. Chris Hellemamn
was at the organ, and the organ seemed glad
to meet him; and there were also Malcolm
McEacharn, a new basso discovered by. Miss
Narelle, and William Murden, a baritone with an
attractive quality of voice, which was at its best
in “Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes.” Miss
Narelle and co. have now gone to New England.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli is to be the address of T.
Burns until Thursday of this week, Tommy s
season having been extended for a few more nights
in deference to loud popular clamor. The r nsco
films of the Fall of Squires—the national tragedy
that shook this continent to its foundations and
made it desert its victuals and put slag on its head
—replace the phantom Gunner Moir collision of
last week. The electrical Marconis have called in
for a few evenings. Mackinnon’s Scottish Meis-
ters, the Sisters Reno, Amalia and Leonora,
Christofolo, Goodfellow and Gregson, and Tom
Dawson are other performers to whom the pro-
gramme is indebted. The Bulletin publicly
laments the departure of J. W. Rickaby—a stage
humorist of worth who only fell from grace when
he substituted a sentimental ditty for one of his
excellent humorous lays.
»* # *
“The Isle of Bong Bong,” the second
production of Pollard’s partly-juveniles at Ade-
laide Royal, is described as “the legitimate suc-
cessor to ‘The Belle of New York.’” It is not
likely to stay that long course, but as a sprinter it
has points —many of them cheerfully collected
from familiar sources. There is a tropic isle, a
widow, a Sultan of Bong or thereabouts, and
other well-proved fun-makers. As they say in the
country of the play’s origin, “ Everything goes.
The co. is finishing its hilarious season with
“The Gay Hussar.”- The Hippodrome has
closed, and is being pulled down to make way
for a handsome and permanent variety theatre
of the same name. The Pavilion runs pictures
plus variety, the Continental runs variety plus
pictures, and is gradually taking over much of the
talent from the old Tivoli, at present shut you
can hear the echo of the bang even now. The
Olympia scores a point by being first to get in
with a French device, wherein some of the leading
Parisian actors have been induced to play short
historical tragedies, all action and no words, for
the biograph’s special benefit.
** * *
Melbourne is still busily engaged with its
pantomimes, and the fourth week of those auda-
cious fictions finds them keeping up Christmas as
before. But the frivolity of a panto, needs almost
as much “keeping-up” as a thirsty citizen on a
sultry day, or a batting average on a bad wicket.
The engines must always be working at full pres-
sure. The least slackening of speed, the slightest
abatement in “go” weakens the effect of the
show. “.Tack and Jill” at Her Majesty s had
lost a trifle of vitality last time The Bulletin
felt its pulse. The long train of events seemed
not to be running quite up to time-table. Every-
thing was as it was in the beginning, yet some-
thing of the joy of youth had gone out of the
performance. Even the fast and furious ballets
were perhaps five and a half seconds slower than
at first. And although the house was crowded,
and the audience laughed profusely, and nothing
was absolutely the matter with “ Jack and Jill,
these premature symptoms of tiredness seemed to
call for a dose of physic. The present paragraph,
dissolved in hot water, should just about meet the
case.
*# * *
“ Cinderella,” at Melbourne Royal, con-
tinues to offer every encouragement to the uncom-
plaining girl who scrubs the parental home, and
does the cooking, and beeswaxes the echoing
corridor, what time her haughty sisters are pranc-
ing round the Block in 19-button gloves and
things to match. Housework is the making of
Cinderella. All her good luck is due to the kit-
chen fire. If she hadn’t gone out into the forest
to pick up bits of tree she would not have mashed
the prince or found a fairy godmother. The story
paints the results of domestic servitude in glowing
colors. It should inspire every sweet suburban
girl to go home, and clean the grates, and brush
her cares away. Not that Cinderella in the panto,
nerforms any of the menial duties she talksabout,
but she often appears to be looking for a chance
to make herself useful, and one feels that if she
had a broom at her disposal she would probably
sweep under the beds.
** * *
Uncle Tom and Little Eva are about to go
heavenwards —as far as the King’s Theatre is
concerned —for the last time. And when the
angel cheeild has taken poor old Uncle m tow on
Friday night Melbourne may confidently wish
them good-bye. The bad stage version of Mrs.
Beecher Stowe’s out-of-date novel is an even more
unpardonable offence than “East Lynne” these
times. Its topical interest is as dead as Eva, and
its political significance as dead as Uncle Tom,
but the sin thereof remains aboveground, and the
last thing white folk want is the odor of that sin
in a four-act drama. On Saturday “The 10.30
Down Express” will make another start at the
Anderson house, and will run for six nights only.
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou this is the third week
of “ The Unwritten Law,” the drama that pro-
fesses to waft the perfume of the Thaw-Stanford
White case across the footlights. It certainly
breathes some memories of Daudet’s “ Sappho.”
Seeing that no author’s name figures on the bill,
one may assume that the Cosgroves built their
drama on a foundation of American facts, and
trimmed it with extracts from any novels that
came in handy. The result is mildly absurd, and
somewhat interesting—as a curio. Anyway, the
lady who impersonates Mrs. Thaw is sufficiently
attractive to explain why the rival millionaires
are unable to come to amicable terms concerning
her.
“CHARLEYS AUNT ” (MELBOURNE
PRINCESSS).
THE AUNT
from Brazil.
The jeune - premier
with the horribly
expressive eyes.
Frank Thornton will appear at the Prin-
cess’s as the incredible old lady in black satin
until Friday night (15th), Then the season closes,
and Charley’s Aunt takes leave of Melbourne
with a few appropriate remarks.
*• * * *
West’s programme at Melbourne Olympia
is as mixed as ever. Most of the films are politely
farcical or slenderly pathetic. Space, however, is
found for one or two of those pictures which make
travel superfluous and inexcusable. A dizzy ride
in the Tyrol upon the Stubraithal Railway, a flit
through South Africa, and a glide through Venice
on a gondola give many an office hireling the
feeling that he is a reckless cosmopolitan and can
speak three languages.
** * *
Including “The Relief of Lucknow,”
which gluts the beholder with colored disserta-
tions upon British pluck, Tait’s Pictures at Mel-
bourne Glaciarium are as cheerful as they were
last week. As usual, the catalogue declares a sur-
plus of that arch and playful humor, which asserts
itself in grimace, gesticulation, and violent action.
One is shown how Jones ruins his new suit by a
tremendous expenditure of wasteful exertion, and,
further, how a burglar, who seemingly has the
imagination of a De Rougemont, dreams of pinch-
ing a clock that grows to gargantuan proportions.
“A Signalman’s Sweetheart ’’—another picture to
allure the masses—is unmitigated melodrama,
and should be interesting to connoisseurs of facial
distortion. When that signalman experiences
passion, hatred, or agonising despair, his visage is
two bobbing eyes and a convulsion.
* * * *
The appearance of J. and If. Tait as
picture showmen at the Glaciarium has caused a
revolution in the neighborhood. Formerly there
were three shows—two picture and one mixed
picture and circus— scratching for, a crust. The
arrival of the Taits made four competitors,
and all the time the crust was the
same old crust. Competition became in-
tense, and the shows hired boys in livery, and
plain boys, and almost anything cheap and loud
on two legs, to bellow horribly at the south end of
Princes Bridge, and drag in custom by the scruff
of the neck, so to speak. One show has now moved
out again, so there are three after the crust; but
this return to the old order of things hasn’t caused
the withdrawal of the deafening boys.
** * *
“ 0.K.” writes :
The last act of George Lauri—an act of suicide—would
provide the text for a sermon, if this were the place for a
moral discourse on the private follies of a capital low
comedian. But it isn’t. Touching the late George Lauri
in his public character, one may safely say that he was
the most valuable and durable member of J. C._ William-
son's Comic Opera co. His reign lasted 16 years, including
a short interval when he put in an engagement with
Eickards and did a 15min. turn every night on the variety
stage. All the rest of his time in Australia he was identi-
fied with “the Firm’s” opera co. He came to this
country from America under engagement to J. G. W.
in December, 1891, was re-engaged by the firm of
Williamson and Musgrove, and remained with J. C. vv.
when the Musgrove partnership expired. Lauri s
popularity had a sturdy constitution. Its growth was
slow and steady in its youth and it developed great re-
cuperative powers later in life. History records that in
December, ’9l, Billy Elton still reigned as king of the
Royal Comics, therefore Lauri for some weeks had to take
a place behind the throne. He was the heir apparent of
whom the public’s first impressions were merely favor-
able. People predicted that, although Lauri seemed a
capable man, the difference between him and Elton would
be a serious loss to the co. The prophets were wrong.
Elton having departed, his best shoes were not immedi-
ately filled by his successor. Lauri got into them as
opportunity offered, and meanwhile he made some shoes
for himself in which he danced more cleverly than Elton
had danced and sang more serviceably than Elton had
sung. The first leading part in comic opera that Lauri
introduced to Australia was the name part in The
Vicar of Bray.” Another of his early successes was in
“Ma Mie Rosette.” Afterwards he scored in what were
known as “ Eicon’s parts,” notably Lurcher in “ Dorothy,
Polydore Poupart in “ The Old Guard," and Jack Point in
Gilbert and Sullivan’s “ The Yeomen.” By the time that
musical comedy had superseded comic opera in the
estimation of a frivolous age—the time of about ten years
ago—George Lauri was a name of vast magnitude on the
Williamsonian bill. Some of the people who saw him
oftenest had a habit of saying that Lauri was always the
same,” yet he was more, versatile than the average broad
comedian, and even after his humor had reached the red
wig-cum-criinson nose stage of decadence there remained
a fund of natural force in the little man’s fooling which
carried him through triumphantly.
Parts that had been “ created ” abroad by comedians
of various sizes and widely different personalities were
almost invariably found to be within the compass of
J O.W.’s “ stock ” comedian. His was a brisk, compre-
hensive style of buffoonery. The multitude accepted
him as “awfully funny” in everything, and even the
minoritv who professed to be tired of him were apt to
laugh freely at his “clowning” in spite of their fatigue.
Nobodv could deny that Lauri was an admirable Duke of
Plaza Toro in “The Gondoliers.” Outside of Gilbert and
Sullivan opera, he was at his best of late years in lhe
Country Girl,” “My Lady Molly,” and “ Veromque, but
he will be most generally remembered for his Tweedle-
punch in “Florodora.” It was in “The Merry Monarch
that George Lauri made his Australian debut, 17 Christ-
mases ago. Of the five other principals who appeared
with him only Florence Young and Howard Tf/" varlev
now living. Elton, Charles Ryley and Violet Varley
have been dead many years.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House the brief
engagement of J. Johnson was so attractive that
the management diminished its brevity by adding
three nights to the length of it. The Johnsonian
season, however, was advertised to close ° n es-
day, and a period of T. Burns was expected to
ensue. Meanwhile the peaceful elements of the
programme are tending to soothe the publics
savage breast. Little Lady Latona sings a sen i-
mental ballad very charmingly, and talks two or
three humorous songs with plenty of expression.
Also her husband is a musician and a humorist ot
some account, whose make-up is not repulsive o
everybody. The Barnards and their interesting
marionettes will pass out of the bill shortly. Which
warning remarks apply also to the Macgregors,
three in number, and the numerous collie dogs
that perform unnatural feats in the interests or
“Professor” Duncan. Seemingly there is a
College of Cruelty to Animals, where these
trainers and tamers of dawgs, cats, lions, bears,
and other unwilling creatures can qualify for their
title. They are all “ Professors.”
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston : —
Previously acknowledged .. £332 15 7
JB •• •• •• 60
Wiluria Branch Federated Miners'
Union, and sympathisers .. .. 21 0 0
Mac _____
£155 2 7
Joseph Carrgthers, who, in his official capacity
as N.S.W. State Premier, damned the climate of
the Monaro district, and declared the place utterly
unfit for a Federal capital, has, in his private
capacity, just put in a holiday time in Monaro.
And this is how he was reported in Sydney leee-
GRAPH on his return :
Mr. Joseph Carrtjthers, who has just returned from
an extended stay at Jindabyne, on the Snowy and Thredbo
Rivers, at the foot of the mountain, DECLARES t-pAI
HE HAS EXPERIENCED NO CLIMATE IN THE
WORLD WHICH COMES UP TO THAT OF THE
DISTRICT IN QUESTION. His health has improved
appreciably while he stayed at the mountain.
So all the fuss and row that Joseph made when
he was Premier were made to prevent the Aus-
tralian capital being planted in the finest climate
in the world, and to get it shifted to a worse
climate. A beautiful patriot is Joseph !
VIRGIE ROBINSON, who made her first
appearance as Nellie Burns, the factory girl,
in “ The Gayest of the Gay," at the Criterion.
“ Leo Lear ” writes :
Is it not possible to alleviate the electioneering woes of
the Victorian fanner? Verily the disabilities under which
he labors in recording his vote knock those of the
patriarch Job into a squashed Panama. If an election is
held in the summer months, harvesting debars him from
going to the poll to record a vote against Confiscation
and Anarchy. At Easter-time he is holiday-making, and
cannot return to prevent the destruction of his farm by
Sosh Later, the smell of fresh-turned earth is so much
more to his liking than that of Stinking Fish that he
declines to leave his plough to vote for “ the only policy
that can save the country.” If the polling occurs during
the winter, the roads to the booths are such as would bog
a flying-machine, and thus, through the utter ineptitude
of the local shire, which won’t either strike a fair rate or
make a fair valuation, the tiller of the soil is alleged to be
stuck in his own element, and practically disfranchised.
Finally, in the Spring, we find the backbone of the coun-
try worshipping at the shrine of Goddess Cow, and
unable accordingly'to lift his hand in protest while Sosh
runs rampant through the land. Of course he can vote
by post, but then there is the trouble of finding a J.P. or
other qualified person. Noo South prates of her wrongs
somewhat. Beside those of the Vic. backbone, Noo
South’s Wrongs are feeble things hardly worth the name.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Circle ”: The suicide of George Lauri (whose unpro-
fessional name was George John Lowe) once more
exemplifies the proverbial nielancholy of the professional
“funnyman.” Grimaldi was a martyr to melancholia,
and Liston was continually consulting doctors about the
same trouble. Most comedians this scribe has met have
been dismal dogs off the stage. Knew one well-known
fun-maker whose redeeming virtue was that he brightened
up “under the influence. ,T Some misguided crank per-
suaded him to sign the pledge; and after that his life
was a misery. Quealy, the comedian for the Pollards,
suffers from dyspepsia, and puts in most of his spare time
describing his various other ailments. Johnny Sheridan
was subject to fits of despondency, and Thornton is irri-
table and rather gloomy off the stage. A lso, he suffer a
good deal from grievances, the same as the Old Ma btate.
“ Noah ” : It is a surprise to hear that Sheridan’s “ Fun
on the Bristol” was written by George Fawcett Rowe in
America. This would be about 40 years ago. Rowe, as
George Fawcett, was in Melbourne from 1857 to 1863.
He boggled along a bit at painting; then went on.the
<sta<ve He was at once successful as a light comedian
with' the sisters Joey and Adelaide Gougenheim
IGeoghegan) and the company at the Princess, which
included Rogers, H. N. Warner, Milne, Drummond (Dolly
Green’s husband) and Emily Glyndon. Bn bant hits were
Boucicault’s comedy of “The Irish Heiress and Planche s
extravaganza of “Fortunio.” Yet the Gougenhenns did
not hang on long. Fawcett took the Princess, and con-
ducted it with ability. Burlesque was Ins strong point.
His right bower was Julia Mathews. With al his smart-
ness she was the magnet. Police Inspector Burke, after-
wards the more-or-less explorer, was madly in love with
Tier but her father and mother were a couple of lynxes.
You would never see Julia without one of them. Ulti-
mately she became Mrs. Mumford, wife of a Maoriland
man In London she was the original Grand Duchess of
Gerolstein, at Covent Garden, and succeeded more than
fairly although she was little, plain, and podgy. Her
voice was small and sweet. At the AleUiourrie Princess
her great hit was in Byron’s “Aladdin, the Wonderful
Scamp.” Her song of “Sweet Spirit, Hear My Prayer,
from Wallace’s “ Lurline,” bewitched all the bucks,
dudes, and johnnies. Another of her parts was Prince
Prettvpet, in “Cinderella, or the Lover, the Lackey,
and the Little Glass Slipper.” Fawcett was Cionnda, the
iioTv sister and Widow Twankey, in Aladdin. He had
two brothers connected with the theatre, Tom Fawcett
and Sandford Fawcett. George produced at the Princess
his own dramatisations of “ David Copperfield and
“Barnabv Rudge.” His Micawber took on greatly.
Paintings of Melbourne and Ballarat, said to be by him,
excited much interest last year. Since they were
exhibited the statement has been made that they are by
bis father. Henry Edwards and George Fawcett at one
time managed both the Melbourne Royal and the Princess.
Melbourne Green Room Club is thriving, apparently.
The secretary invites nominations for a special trophy
billiard tournament and a euchre tournament, to be
started at the end of this month.
The Kilties, seemingly, have been much the same boom
in Maoriland that the Besses were. The band the bog-
peeps ” and the family of Scotch reelers will be back in
Australia anon, making farewell appearances at Sydney
and Melbourne before moving on to the south and west,
en route for India, where the “ prevailing unrest is—
such of it as isn’t at Broken Hill.
“Blue Peter”: “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” with the final
scene showing Uncle Tom and Little Eva being wafted up
to Heaven, reminds me, by force of contrast, of a little
plav I saw in Paris two years ago—the principal item of
the Folies Bergeres programme. It was in dumb show,
a form of curtain-raiser and playlet that is very popular
over there and in London. The first scene showed
Pierrot hanging himself on a lamp-post because he had
no monev. Musidora, a dancer, returning from supper,
saw him, and had him cut down and restored to
life Pierrot fell in love with her, and to make
himself rich robbed and murdered a nnser m the
old clothes trade, and pushed the body down a
drain After that Pierrot had various adventures
of exceeding Frenchness; but wherever he went the
ghost of the miser would appear beside him, all green
and slimy and ghastly. Finally he was in a wood, fight-
ing a duel with a Yicomte, a former lover of Musidora.
The Vicomte suddenly turned into the ghost and ran him
through most realistically with a red-hot rapier, then
dragged him through a fiery hole The final scene
showed Pierrot in Hell, stuck on a spike with blue flames
blazing underneath him, while Musidora, in an abbrevi-
ated scarlet frock, turned him daintily with a big silver
fork so as to do him all over, and the old clothes man,
transformed into the head of the establishment, sat on a
red hot throne and supervised.
“Blue Peter”: La Milo’s marvellous puff paragraphs
(B 31/12/’08) are things of beauty and a joy for ever;
especially to Melbourne people. The shapely Pansy
Montague-Milo lived in Fitzroy and was, I believe, a
daughter of Monty Brown, a theatrical manager who ran
plays of the Dan Barry style However, the British
public is supposed to prefer that its theatrical stars should
be daughters of doctors and clergymen and otficahs. So
La Milo goes to Berlin and weeps over the arsenal because
it reminds her so of her poor, dear papa, who was an
officer high up in the army. It reminds one of a song in
the London production of “ The Dairymaids,” where the
simple maiden
Sometimes would forget
Simple rules of etiquette,
And she’d often tilt her plate to get the gravy ;
Though she always said that she
Came of ancient pedigree,
And her father was a colonel in the navy.
(Continued on page %5.)
You will pay just as much for a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy as for any of the
other medicines, but you save money in buying it.
The saving is in what you get, not what .you pay.
The sure-to-cure-you quality is in every bottle of
this remedy, and you get good results when you
take it Buying cough medicine is an important
matter. Neglected colds often develop serious
conditions, and when you buy a cough medicine
you want to be sure you are getting one that will
cure your cold. When you buy Charnberlain s
Cough Remedy you take no chances. It always
cures.*
TO A HUMAN MELODRAMA—A SONG OF
GREETING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
\“ To Welcome Dr. Dill Macky ! Grand Protestant
Rally ! I Clifton Gardens !! ! Jan. 26 !!! .'—Vide
hoardings.]
Dill has come back,
Hooray ! Produce
Milk and a rack
Of toast. Induce
All hands—please do—
To flock in hordes
And listen to
His burning words.
Dill will surprise
You with his ways
And yarns. His eyes
Like solar rays
Pierce past our ken.
He has this pull
Over plain men —
He’s never dull.
Take him in Rome.
We others scan
The place—the home
Of an old man,
Harmless and mild
It seems to us.
Dill it drives wild.
Hark ! a shocked cuss,
111-stifled, thrills
The Vatican
(The cuss is Dill’s);
He’s seen a Ban
Dripping with gore ;
And Papal Bulls
Prone on the floor
With cloven skulls.
In ev’ry aisle
(On Scarlet “Feasts”)
Of Peter’s pile
Dill discerns priests
Severing throats.
His eyes grow wet;
He taketh notes
Lest he forget.
It is the same
When he proceeds
To Derry. Shame-
Ful wicked deeds,
Rapine and theft,
Crimes red and raw
Rage right and left ;
And aye the paw
Of Rome protrudes,
And Blood in gouts
From it exudes.
The “ Wummun” routs
Equity eke
' In England, where
Each blessed week
(To Dill’s despair)
Good folks are slain
By monks and such.
None suffers pain
Or worries much,
Or gives two durns
(Barring the folk
Like Dill; he spurns
The Papal yoke.)
Yes, I repeat,
Once more Dill’s ways
And yarns have heat:
In fact, they blaze
With warmth. Come, do,
And hear him pull
Rome’s leg. His show
Is wonderful !
N.B.W.
10-2-4.


These Skirts
are now
18/6
Usual Price,
23/6.
df
PLEATED SKIRTS.
A SPECIAL OFFER.
Our Manufacturer has made up a greater number
Skirts than we ordered. To help him out of the
difficulty, we have purchased these Skirts at a smaller
price, and are able to offer them to buvers at a
substantial reduction. This offer holds good through-
out January. These are in all sizes from 37in. to 42in.
lengths, and we have a very good assortment in 37in.
and 38in. lengths. These we know are much appre-
ciated by those who find a maid’s skirt too small and
a full size woman’s skirt too big.
They are full-pleated Skirts, in Black, Navy,
Cream Sicilian. They can be had in lengths
from 37in. to 42in.
Should your measures not correspond
exactly to these, they can be specially
made up for an extra cost of 2s.
These Skirts are sent carriage paid
throughout the Commonwealth, so that
you are not only able to buy them at
our usual Sydney prices, but at reduced
prices as well.
DAVID JONES LTD.
SYDNEY.
NOLLIN6PALE £ KESSELL,
Watchmakers Jewellers Opticians,
98 KING STREET, SYDNEY, near Pitt Street.
I*” N° ted for the excellence and value of our Engagement and Wedding Rings.
18-ct. Cold Marquise
Bing:, all Diamonds,
£lO, £l3/10/-, £2O.
18-ct. Gold Ring 1 , Dia-
monds and Rubies,
or Diamonds and
Sapphires, £3/10/-
All Diamonds, £4.
£5, £7/10/-
18-ct. Cold King-, set
with Diamonds and
Rubies, £l2/10/-
Also a large stock of Engagement Rings at
30/-, 40/=, 50/= and 60/=
If upon receipt of the ring there should be any cause for dissatisfaction,
we refund money.
OUR SPECIAL 20/-
WEDDING RING,
Solid 18-ct. Gold.
Heavier, 30/- and 407-
Ring Size Card and complete
Catalogue sent post free
to any address.
All Orders Post Free.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The N.S.W. Police Department hasn’t
been too successful lately in tracking the gentle-
man (or lady) who cuts the throat of the
other lady or gentleman, and a few people
have had their heads wrecked or their ears
depreciated without anything happening. But
the Department levelled things up on the
day when Sydney’s tongue hung out of its
mouth, and a smoky blast that measured nearly
120 degrees of heat blew in off the bushfires that
baked the country from Yassberra to the sea
Not even on that day was the foot of the Law
turned to lead or its brain to steam ; instead, it
made its coup, and next day “John Dardery
26, was charged with having offered icecream for
sale on Sunday in Cleveland-street, Redfern ”
The wretched malefactor pleaded guilty, and was
fined. It might have been potted microbes that
the man was selling, a million of them to the
cubic inch ; but over a small thing like that the
law of Wade is not concerned. The sinner had
offered the cooi stuff on the Sabbath, and that is
the thing that St. Gregory won’t stand at any
price. J
In the making of billiard-tables, which
was one of the earliest manufactures estab-
lished in Australia (by Alcock), this country
might claim to have bettered Britain’s best.
Twenty years ago, when John Roberts came
along as a “star” performer to play exhibition
matches in which he gave “half the game”
(push-cannons being permitted) to Memmott and
others he brought an English billiard-table with
him. Someday, in the not distant future, we may
have an Australian-born champion playing in
England on an imported Australian table. It’s a
question whether cushions “seasoned” in a warmer
climate are not more trustworthy than those that
have been cured in colder latitudes. And, by the
way, it is practically certain that ivory billiard
balls could be turned to greater perfection, and
n >°re easily preserved from flaking, in any part of
the Commonwealth than in a northern country,
where the climate is less congenial to the animal
that grows the ivory. We are often told that
billiard balls fashioned from the elephant’s tusk
are no good in Australia, yet the elephant should
know what sort of climate to keep his tusk in,
and he doesn’t select climates like England.
* * * *
Though the Melbourne habit of camping
out along the shores of Port Phillip Bay through
the year-end holidays still spreads like a bush-
fire, Mother Nature evidently disapproves of
the cheerful, irresponsible holiday makers, and
does her best to drive them into the huts, cot-
tages, dog-boxes, etc., that the land-grabber has
built for them—-at. a stiff rent, paid in advance.
Last season most of the campers were flooded out
on Boxing Day, and returned to town damp and
dilapidated, resolving, as usual, never to do it
again. But this year the weather was just too
enticing—till the Sunday following New Year’s
Day. Then the old Mother sent along about the
swiftest hurricane that ever whipped the bay.
It was only a puff, lasting barely an hour, but it
shifted things. At Port Melbourne it caught the
Persic broadside on, tore it away from the
pier, incidentally snapping the red-gum piles
like carrots, and drove the huge ship almost on to
Beach-street. Just as the vessel’s nose was stick-
ing over the footpath the wind relented, whipped
round, and drove it back again. Between the
port and town sundry fishing parties put up
strenuous fights for existence, while ashore,
chimney stacks, iron roofs, and miscellaneous
animals were blowing around like Bent after he
got his dissolution. But the case of the campers
was disastrous. The wind simply gathered up
the tents, and played ping-pong with them and
with the campers’ clothes, and with their camp
gear ; and then, when they had scoured the bush
for their lost property, and had got it more or less
together, the rain began to damp their spirits and
their furniture, and it kept on falling steadily
for 40 hours.
* * *
“ R.S.W.”: Talking of names, it is strange
how few people follow thetrades indicated by their
surnames. I never yet struck a Taylor who waved
the shears of his order, nor yet a Shearer who
shore. A Baker who bakes I know; but nary a
Butcher who butches. Smith is the commonest
of names, but how many Smiths are there who
smith worth a cent? There is in Melbourne a
tradesman named Shave, but he, alas ! is a tailor.
This is surely misusing the advantages of nature.
It wpuld save a lot of bother if one could tell a
man’s trade by his cognomen, as in the good old
days before Federation.
A DIRE INSULT.
“No, sir; sorry I cant assist you. Have you
no union?"
"Belong to a union? Sir, I’m an English
gentleman."
With the holidays came the usual rush
from Sydney to the “Health” resorts on the
Blue Mountains; the places where the con-
sumptive and the chest complaint go for treat-
ment all the year round. N.S.W. has not yet
arrived at a Public Health Act which will insist on
tuberculosis being officially reported, and the
cases properly segregated. As it is now, a man
will cheerfully send his wife and family away for
a change to those country resorts where con-
sumptives are thickest—to dwell probably in the
houses wherein a few of them have lived and died.
The same man would be the first to publicly kick
against any proposal to establish a consumptives’
home, with every precautions taken, in lus own
suburb ; but mostly he would do it on the ground
that its existence would depreciate the value of
property in the neighborhood.
‘ 1 Kaban ”: Melbourne, like Sydney, has its
under-street stream
which will not
cease. The tele-
phone tunnelers
have just struck it
in Elizabeth-
street, one of the
busiest thorough-
fares of the city.
Elizabeth-s t r e e t
was originally a
creek. It ended,
in the ’4o's, in a
deep gully known
as the River Town-
end, which ex-
tended from Col-
lins-street to the
Yarra. In the’so’s,
a heavy downpour
transformed the
street into a raging
torrent, across
which foot-passen-
gers were ferried
in drays at a bob
a head. Even in
the late ’6o’s, after
the construction of
a small under-
ground sewer in
connection with
the new post office
(in the old weath-
er-board building
the letter - sorters
had sometimes
been compelled to
work standing
an k 1 e-d ee p in
water), the ori-
ginal creek was
often in evidence.
It was not, indeed,
finally banished
from the surface
until the inception
of the sewerage scheme in the early ’9o’s.
Shent per Shent hasn’t yet had his claws
clipped in the West, and his tearing apparatus is
in very fine working order. A Savings Bank
clerk was up in the Bankruptcy Court, the other
day, with a tale of “ accommodation ” at anything
up to 120 per cent. His last few vears
seem to have been mostly made up of
accommodation. In Mav, 1906 h§
owed £2OO, half of it borrowed money,
the other half interest. He compro-
mised at ss. in the £ ; he borrowed the
£5O to do it, and in return gave Sbent
per Shent an order for two and a half
years salary, Shent per Shent under-
taking to allow him £2 a week. In
return for the £5O Shent per Shent
was to get £156. Thus, though the
debtor got off by paying his creditors
£oo in £2OO, or f>s. in the £, the
gentleman who provided the £5O fixed
things up so as to get a trifle over £6
in the £ for himself. When that
arrangement had been just about com-
pleted a couple of the creditors decided
that they ought to have a bite, too, so
to get the thing through he gave them
long bills for the other 15s. Partly
to fix up these bills he later on bor-
rowed some more. In one case, so he
told the court, he had borrowed £TJ,
paid £9, and still owed the £l2; in
another case he had borrowed £6 18
months ago, paid off £9, and still
owed all the principal. At about this
stage some other creditors took him by
the neck and rushed him into bank-
ruptcy ; and the Registrar is now busy
considering whether he ought to be
passed on to a hospital for mental cases
or urged to run for the State Parlia-
ment and keep his eye on the job
of Treasurer.
“ S.C.O. J.” on drilling :
any J”?" in a military suit and give him an obso-
lete rifle, and it s safe to bet that he’ll click his heels
p ° u * llke a Pigeon—for a few seconds. Send
' ? adrd >-shed, and, after an hour’s goose-stepping
, r i L ; h ,r t:eX P a [: Slo ''- he is dead tired > and wishes he had
never desired the glory that clings to a brave soldier.
and strallrhi- e H de i a -n a " d then rush the square-shoulder
and straight-back business—and we also go the wrong
way about it. It’s a matter of bringing up. Blacks get
no drill ; no throaty officer ever yells like a demented
railway porter at them ; yet their carriage is splendid,
and their movements in a good corroboree are as
rhythmical as could be desired by the most exacting drill
sergeant. Prom infancy they carry themselves erect,
and out here (Georgina River, Q.) the' way little piccanin-
nies shove their chests out as they walk would make a
Life-guardsman turn green with envy.
The habit their ancestors had of carrying goods on
their heads may have something to do with it. Both
sexes are alike.
Corsets are no use to the gins, as corsets. “Too much
hot pfeller, they say, so they make them into leggings.
I suggest that we begin now, and insist upon the aspir-
ing citizen soldier carrying everything possible on his
head. Let him go to work with his lunch there in place
of his hat, and, if he is a clerk, he could practise carrying
his ink eraser on the top of his thinking apparatus. °
Of course the innovation would be the cause of a few
stiff necks and sundry collisions, but the benefit of it
would counterbalance trifling accidents of that sort.
Cinquevalli’s occupation would go, but we could stand
that. Just think of all the lovely chests we would have 1
The Volunteer’s girl would have more manly protuber-
ance to rest her head on, and drill would become a
pleasure.
ABSOLUTELY INDISPUTABLE.
FIANCEE: “But surely you don't mind if I
dance with Miss Lately. You wouldn't call
her good looking.”
BIRDIE : “ Call her good looking? The woman is
plain to the meanest understanding!"
THE MARY SCOUTS.
[For The Bulletin.]
The boy scouts movement is progressing' rapidly in
Canterbury under the general leadership of Major D.
Cosgrove. Several patrols of girl scouts are now in ex-
istence. The movement for both girls and boys promises
to be a very big thing before the close of the summer.—
Maoriland press item.
Oh, Tommy, see you have your pop-gun handy,
And, Mary, see you hold your broom-stick right,
Stuff your pockets fall of almond-rock and candy,
And march to the great big fight.
{Left ! Right !)
Now, Joseph Ward is looking proud and happy,
While the merry drums are beating rub-a-dub ;
If you ever hint at menace of the Jap, be
Will point you out the girlies in the scrub.
Should the banner of the Rising Sun be sighted
Near the waters of the Canterbury Bight,
Be sure the trembling foe will turn affrighted
When the Mary Scouts come marching to the fight.
So, Tommy, see you have your pop-gun handy,
And, Mary, see you hold your broom-stick right;
Stuff your pockets full of almond-rock and candy,
And march to the great, big fight.
{Left ! Right !)
Maoriland. D.M. W.
* * * *
The new year was welcomed in Melbourne
with considerable beer, owing to a number of de-
licensed pubs -closing up finally on Thursday
night. ; Naturally, the stocks in those houses
weren’t too heavy, but as closing-time came along,
and the publicans realised that there was no to-
morrow for them, they grew reckless, and in
quite a number of houses in South Melbourne and
Collingwood “free beer” was the order of the
night. In fact, there was more free beer in
Emerald Hill than there has been since the day
when old Jock “Nimmaw”was elected. Come
to think it oyer, The Bulletin doubts whether
it was Jock Nirrimo ; the name, somehow, doesn’t
sound like free beer.
THE RUSH TO THE FUNERAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rhf> •'•’n' 1 Co , rt ,^ e sorted-with the first
Sofl il f ch i ln faet ~ tha " a tremendous
rusn of people set in for the route of the procession
but the V se r wl nan f y t,llousands ass . em ljled at the waterside;
tK wu Co ™ pared Wl£h the vast crowds that
tho r ri rf fch f clt y eastwards by every intersecting
ThS h ’ to * " llm P se of the melancholy pageant.
The city was crowded at the time—it was the luncheon
pect r ed^ha r i n“ Street bee " P , aeked with P eo P !e who ex-
P “S e “ t t . hat the procession would pass that way. When the
cf^ eC^f 16 k " 0 "- n i Ge0rffe ' street and the whole of
“ e J e „ 8 ‘ of the city emptied itself into Macquarie-street,
?he C ”tffS B Was K“tw»ole thereto. For several minutes
thoroughfares were moving: masses of humanity,
Man P v r,en n{ [ onward . to a glimpse of the procession.
Manypeople, spurred on by the running crowds, joined
i" th ® £, us h without knowing: what they were running
Ldth Perha P s its a fire!” exclaimed an elderlv lady
K ml X„ a l nlfl } °, f parcels as she joined the throng in
lung-street. —Daily paper.
They're off l
To the tomb !
At a terrible pace
Do they scramble and race,
All tripping and stumbling,
With old women grumbling
O’er babies and nurses,
To stare at the hearses, •
Till there’s not a spare incli of room.
They’re off !
To the grave !
And nobody inquires
Or desires, or aspires,
But, tripping and scooting,
And yelling and hooting,
To catch the departed,
Each one of them’s started
A furious rush down the pave.
They’re off !
To the fire ?
(It’s a funeral !!!.... Hey ! !
Don’t you go down that way !
Or you’ll miss all the fun ! .....
I can only see one]!
Well, then, count ’em again !
Wasn’t it fifteen men ?
(All leap up and down in the mire.)
They’re off!
To see Death 1
And bewildered Old Age,
Full of parcels and rage,
Joins the scampering throng
And is jostled along
On its weary old feet
Down the clattering street
And gets to the scene out of breath.
That It ! ! !
Can yer see ? ? !
There is seven black cars
An’ some six-’undred tars.
(By dint of much craning,
The coffins containing
The dead they can see.)
Now, it’s no use remaining,
For, at last,
It’s all past,
So we’ll get ’ome t’ tea !
(What a pity poor Hum wasn’t able t’ go
’Cos th’pore thing does love agood funeral so !)
N.S.W.
FOE.


VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
Patents and Trade Marks.
GRIFFITH (Si HASSEL,
Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys and
Consulting Engineers.
163 King Street, Sydney; 0 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Corresponding agents throughout the world.
A NEW STYLE in PANAMAS
This is a decidedly different style that
we are showing this week.
It is the new square-crowned shape
with rolled sides that has such a
splendid appearance. The brims are
2| inches wide, and look well when
turned up, and give good shade when
down. They are very dressy—con-
form easily to shape of head, and the
crowns are plaited in one piece,
ensuring very long wear.
Ask for a Complimentary Copy of
our Summer Catalogue.
Peapes 8 Co. Ltd.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
PEAPES* PANAMAS
in one quality only—fine plait of
well-bleached straw.
Price 18/6
Posted 9d
extra.
Hano- Too has been having a bad time
lately. ° The poor relations he has been trying to
smuggle in on the steamers have been frequently
discovered, and his fan-tan shops have been
getting swamped with violent policemen—a catas-
trophe which, later on, entails a fearful quantity
of expensive bailing-out and much swearing in
different dialects. The furtive wretch who plays
fan-tan is actually less objectionable than the
brazen outlaw who sets an inferior phonograph
squeaking and crackling on a hot night; but the
Law takes a different view of these things. So at
11 p.m. on a recent Saturday evening a band of
N.S.W. John Hops dropped off a Bqtany tram
and charged a silent and deserted-looking cottage
at Hedfern. In a second a dozen massive buffaloes
of the Law were battering and kicking at the
various exits, whilst an unknown number of
Chinamen were clattering and squealing inside,
and making gallant but futile attempts to escape
bv pushing odd ends of themselves round doors
and under window sashes. The shocked house
fairly bulged and rocked with anguished Chow,
and the Law had to keep pushing the Peril back
with both hands and shoving like fury with its
shoulder to keep the quivering den together.
After a life and death struggle, in which several
constables’ collars were burst and yelling Ah Fats
were thrown about like bundles of old clothes, the
evening’s catch was counted and tallied at 34.
Then Asia was conveyed, handcuffed in pairs, to
the lockup, where the rest of the stifling night
was made 10 degrees hotter by the excitement and
confusion of bailing out. Hang Too has now pre-
sumably renewed his unobtrusive game in some
other hovel. He knows full well that it is only a
matter of time before he will be raided again and
fallen on by immense policemen; but he wants
some relaxation after his daily wrestle with the
lettuce, so he gambles as quietly as possible and
saves up against the evil but inevitable night when
the hoofs of the Law will again batter on the door.
The resigned and persistent futility of the Chow
is one of Life’s pale, yellow tragedies. And the
soulless owner of the cheap phonograph still winds
up his shrieking apparatus and keeps it going far
into the night without molestation.
* * * *
The difficulty which the N.S.W. Lands
Department finds in supplying surveyors to meet
the demands of closer settlement, and the allega-
tion of surveyors that the fees offered are too
beggarly, recall a historical survey performance in
Ireland a couple of hundred years ago. Lands
forfeited to the Crown required to be surveyed,
and the Government of the day gave the job to
surveyor Petty at a fee of a penny an acre. Not-
withstanding the apparent beggarliness of the
fee, Petty in two years surveyed over 2,000,000
aores, and drew in fees £B4OO. The Government
paid gladly, for Petty, who worked mostly on
paper, and by rule of thumb, included in the for-
feited portion areas on all sides that weren’t
legally forfeited, and the Government roped in
those areas. Petty pointed out that he was pre-
pared to survey all Ireland at the same rates.
That vigorous and eminent surveyor became
merged in the Fitz-Maurice family known to-day
under the headship of the Marquis of Lans-
downe.
# * * *
From a man who has wandered the earth :
Rev. J. E. Carruthers, Joe’s clerical brother, has told
Sydney Telegraph what he saw from the deck of a mail-
boat of the scene of the Italian earthquakes. He was
struck with the terraces on the cultivated mountain
sides, and he has a suggestion to offer : “ The introduc-
tion of a thousand or two of these Calabrian Italians to
teach us to terrace our hillsides and cultivate our idle
mountain patches, would be a permanent enrichment of
Australia.” If he had gone ashore and spent a few weeks
looking into the inside of things, Joe’s brother would
have been better equipped as ail adviser. He would have
found that most of the terraces are something over 2000
years old, the work having been done by slave labor
in the time of the old Greek colonists. He would
have found that the Calabrian peasant of the present day-
can find plenty to do at home in draining and cultivating
the deadly malarial swamps that were, in classical times,
rich and fertile fields surrounding cities now in ruins.
When he does get a job at cleaning out one of the pesti-
lential watercourses, the only way he can find to do it is
to turn-to with his wife and daughters and scoop up the
foetid mud ii .o baskets, which the women carry on
their heads. It is not to be expected that the Rev. Car-
ruthers should know about such things, but naturally he
could not resist the temptation to try to teach his be-
nighted fellow-Australians —the poor people who don’t
know anything—a few wrinkles from the depths of his
own profound inexperience. Anyhow, why should Aus-
tralia start to cut terraces in the sides of the Blue Moun-
tains yet, when there are all the big estates of the fertile
table-land to cut up and settle? It would be as
absurd as building a 10-storey tenement house in the
middle of the Northern Territory, where there are 500
square miles for each human being.
“Do you love me? ”
“Oh, but it is.”
THE INSCRUTABLE FEMININE.
“ It’s none o’ your business.”
“ Well, you ought to know your own business best.
“ Shaftesbury,” the old Government build-
ing on the way to Watson’s Bay (Sydney), has been
given still another job in its old age. Originally the
place, which is exposed to all the winds that
blow, was built as a reformatory for refractory
girls, and was named after a noble earl who
identified himself with wayward Kitties —in a
commendable and righteous way of course.
Modern methods of dealing with the errant
female are, however, changing, so girls have not
been sent there for some time. Latterly an
attempt was made to use the place as a depot for
State waifs, but that was a baa failure; and now
it has been given over to the prison people, who
are trying a new scheme for reforming female
inebriates by treating them, not as prisioners but
as patients.
The N.S.W. Tourist Department is just
opening, or has just opened, the great and gor-
geous Hotel .Kosciusko, on the mountain of the
same name, 6000 ft. above sea level. This build-
ing is 3350 ft. above Dalgety, where it was pro-
posed that the Federal capital should be, and
looks down upon that town. It is to be open
winter and summer, and it is expected that it will
do a fine tourist business all the year round. The
Tourist Department is of opinion that the scenery
and the climate are about the finest in Australia,
and Joseph Carruthers backs up this view of the
case. Things grow awkward and complicated
for the N.S.W. State Government and its depart-
ments, according to whether it is talking about
Monaro as a State health resort or as a possible
Federal capital site. In the former case, it builds
a hotel at a place 6000 ft. high, and says the
climate and scenery and other blessings are all
that the soul of man can desire. And when it is
on the Federal capital racket it says that even at
Dalgety, which is only 2650 ft. high, the climate is
so bleak and forbidding that no rational person
could possibly think of living there. These state-
ments don’t seem to hang together ; in fact, they
are so confused that one is almost inclined to hang
Carruthers by the neck out of a front window of
the new hotel in the hope of thereby sorting
matters out.
One of the sublime developments of our
civilisation is woman’s faith in her umbrella.
When Adelaide had its big earthquake a few
years back, every woman in King William-street
instinctively put up her gamp. The same simple
trust was displayed by a woman in Collins-street
(Melbourne) on a recent afternoon. The woman
started to cross the street, and, reaching the tram-
line, became confused between two trams and a
motor that threatened to eat her up. A
hundred voices shrieked a warning, and in that
moment of deadly peril, with the dummy almost
on top of her, the good woman opened her
umbrella, and shut out the threatening doom.
The tram was pulled up with a jolt right against
the ferrule. Then she folded her gingham, and
went away, with her confidence in woman’s
providence all unshaken.
Is the cable-liar pulling his employers’
legs or has he been having his own extremity
extended? In one of his messages about the
Messina catastrophe he informed a guileless public
that “ Signor Santoliquido, Italian Director-
General of Hygiene, had expressed the opinion
that there was little fear of pestilence in the
ruined cities owing to the quantities of disin-
fectants used.” Now, is the name of the Chief
Health Officer of Italy really Mr. Holy water ? Or
has that joker been at work who recently filled up
Sydney’s yellow pup Watchman with a wild yarn
regarding Mr. Monkey-shave and the buying up
of Rome ?
An abuse was smitten lustily about the
roots in Sydney last week. What the dailies
describe as ‘‘a well-known Association ” met and
hurled verbal assault and battery at its vice-presi-
dents. It complained that “though the vice-
presidents were appointed largely with the idea
of getting a cheque from them,’ the majority had
grossly betrayed the trust reposed in them. Aye,
worse. Some had actually cost the Association
money. Said a member, passionately :
Now, there’s Blank. He. comes in on the nod at our
dinners, and he has never given us a bean.
All the vice-presidents who don’t immediately
disburse cash to avert the calamity are to be un-
frocked, struck off the rolls, and warned off the
premises of the association for the remainder of
time. The list of the deposed includes “ well-
known politicians, military men, and knights
bachelors, ” and the economists will never know, in
all likelihood, how narrow was their escape from
proceedings for obtaining honors by false pre-
tences.
* * * *
The slangwhanging that has been raging
between the Australian cricketers and the Board
of Control, and the Melbourne Age and Sydney
Daily Telegraph leaders on the uproar, serve to
establish one fact for the benefit of such of the
community as didn’t know it before —viz., that
whatever our flannelled and padded idols are they
aren’t amateurs. The probable takings of the
forthcoming tour of England amount to £lB,OOO.
The Board of Control claims 5 per cent, on the
first £6OOO snared, and per cent, on the
remaining £12,000 —in all, £lBOO. The expenses
of the players will amount to £6OOO, and so
there remains for division amongst the 14 of
them the goodly lump sum of £10,200 —roughly,
£720 for each man. Noble possibly makes more
as a dentist, and Trumper may make more as a
seller of bats and things than this in any given six
months, but that isn’t the point. The amateur
is supposed by the unwritten sporting Law of
Nations not to accept one farthing, bean, plack,
bodle, rei or other coin for playing or engaging in
a contest, in excess of his bare expenses. The
instant he does so he is a “ pro.,” and is classed
as such. Of course, scores of English and other
“amateurs” make incomes out of the game,
but they do it by holding paid secretaryships,
and by other subtle devices. The idea of clamor-
ing for “cash in addition to exes,” much less
arguing publicly as to how much boodle they were
to get after their fares, board, etc., had been paid,
would not be entertained by them for a moment.
The local sphere-manipulator has come out into
the open as one who expects about £2B a week
plus expenses for “showing” in public, and the
sooner he is put in his proper place with Burns,
Johnson, Irving Sayles and the other variety
artists the better.
* * * *
“Milky White ” : Consider the names of
stations on the Gembrook (Vic.) narrow-gauge
line: Upwey, Belgrave, Selby, Aura, Paradise,
Emerald, Wright, Cockatoo, Gembrook ; and this
in a district where the native names are as
melodious as the blue-cap in the spring-time.
Gembrook was christened by Le Soeuf, of the
Zoo, because of the practically unmarketable
“precious” stones in the creek. Something
similar applies to Emerald. Wright and
Selby got in on the broad acres early
and cheap. Paradise only just escaped
being Eden. Upwey was so named because two
old ladies near by came from a similarly-named
place in the Cold Country; and Belgrave was
born because of its alliterate relationship to the
translation of its native name. Monbulk, which
means the beautiful. However, Cockatoo is all
right, for hundreds of them haunt the high trees
there, saying “Yah ” with much vehemence and
scorn, and dropping huge masses of chewed bark
and bough heavily on the heads of unwary travel-
lers. In this young land of ours there ought to
be a law passed for the preservation of native
names. Wb can’t even boast of a State capital
that has not an imported designation.
* * * *
Sydney will soon have to take a day off
and think over its Hospital system. Two big
institutions, the Prince Alfred and the Syd-
ney, depend largely on State support. I hey
each get £4OOO a year in direct annual sub-
sidy, besides Government grants for special
services. The rest of the money has to
be found by the donating public, and lately
the donating public hasn’t donated much.
So the two institutions boast an accumulated
deficit of £15,000, and they are plainly on the road
to ruin unless something is speedily done. The
hospital authorities evidently don’t think much of
the public in its private capacity as far as alms-
giving goes; so they are appealing to the Govern-
ment for increased subsidies, “to save the State
from the enormous expense of taking over the insti-
tutions.” But it might not be altogether a bad thing
for the Government to take them over. Just now
as it is, the State pays £lO,OOO a year or so with
practically no representation on the management
committees, and though at present there is
nothing much to complain about, there may one
day be a great deal. Then, as regards the enor-
mous expense, the State has better and cheaper
means of raising the wind than the hat of cadge and
the collection plate. Very inefficient and very
costly are the plate and the hat.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
FAME
[For This Bulletin.]
TT THERE the long Pacific roller
//'My' breaks and swirls,
T And croons for aye its haunting
lilting song
To woo the ears of wet, warm, windblown girls,
And rugged men who crowd the beach along,
There is one who stands magnificent alone;
Who, though full oft appealing eyes beseech,
A graven image is—a thing of stone —
And the cynosure for all upon the beach.
N.S.W.
No gladiator bold in him we view,
No crowned victor in much mimic strife.
JHe could not pot a ball the goal-posts through.
Nor smite a four to save his precious life.
His soul no music thrills ; the poet’s bays
Are not for him; yet Fame doth wildly
screech „
That lazing through the long, soft summer
days
Is the Very Brownest Bather on the beach!
NULLA.
THE CHURCH UNSCALLOPED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
People who have been trained up in a belief in the
virtue of fresh air find the evening church intolerably
stuffy. Moreover, many people who are unsound in
health attend church assiduously, and the rest, a germ-
dreading generation, the preacher finds are more terrified
of the horizontal proximity of cancer than of the subter-
ranean imminence of Tophet. The windows in churches
are all too few for a warm summer evening. —Melbourne
Weekly Times (26/12/’08).
Come, give us air, dear brothers, for our souls’ good
health to-day,
Yea, hearken, with a contrite heart, to what the doctors
say ;
Ope wide the oaken portals you imported years ago,
And make your cash collection where the cool, bush
breezes blow ;
Come on, and cure your crippled souls of all their aching
ills
With worship in the shadow of the everlasting hills,
Grey gum-butt for a pulpit, and green gum-bough for a
roof,
Nor groan if Stuffy Brother in his anger hold aloof 1
The church our fathers builded for the glory of the Lord,
In wind-space scantly furnished and with strange diseases
stored,
Grotesque, with scalloped edges and cramped seats—-that
church to-day
Is doomed to blank desertion and to germ-bedecked
decay.
The altar, long appointed for plain men to worship at,
Is right among green leaves and grass and birds and
things like that!
No more within four stern stone walls on summer days
we’ll hear
Loud Brother, bold with onions, praying warmly in our
ear !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT «
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
"NATIONAL " ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
fl r thur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDIGO : Pall Mail.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining- Plants in any Quantity.
N STOCK—Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester; Bansomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
A.ll the States’ revenue returns for the half-year
are available now, and they don’t niake much of a New
x ear s gift i
State Revenues for Six Months.
July-Dee., July-Dec.,
1907. 190 S.
N. S. Wales .. £7.191,078 £6,737,365 Dec. £453,713
Victoria. .. 4,124,904 3,804,537 Dec. 320,367
Queensland .. 2,242,662 2,363,255 Inc. 120 593
S Australia .. 1,670,275 1,610,969 Dec. 59 306
VVestralia .. 1,599,781 1,497,029 Dec. 102 752
Tasmania .. 506,280 470,267 Dec. 36,013
For this net decrease o.f £851,558, the smaller re-
funds from the Commonwealth are mainly responsi-
ble. The Commonwealth returned too much pre-
viously ; now, when it i 3 acting’ a little more
sensibly, the figures compare badly. Still, it isn’t
to be assumed that the Commonwealth is collect-
mg what it used to, and is sticking to the balance. As a
matter of fact its own revenue is shrinking faster than
that of the States. This was quite expected. The Com-
monwealth relies mainly on Customs collections ; and as
factories are built and industries established, those col-
lections, of course, tail off. On the other hand, while the
Commonwealth thus loses revenue, the States get more
from other sources, because the new workers in the new
factories become taxpayers to the State, and the new in-
dustries provide stamp duties, etc. The two chief Com-
monwealth revenue-producers show up like this
July-Dee., July-Dee.,
1907. 1908.
Customs and excise £6,030,784 £5,510,186 Dec. £520,598
Posts and Telegraphs 1,620,418 1,686,383 Inc. 65,965
The increase in the Posts and Telegraphs revenue illus-
trates what was said just now in relation to the improve-
ment in the position of the States’ finances through the
establishment of new industries ; for the States’ sources
of revenue benefit in exactly the same way as the post-
office does.
Considering the size of the State, the shrinkage
in S. Australia is very serious, and the outlook is very
gloomy. The State has had a wonderful run—good
seasons, great activity at Broken Hill, from which it
benefits most, activity at its copper mines, and a large
expenditure of loan money on the tramways in Adelaide
and on other public works. The seasons have not
changed, but the copper industry is almost paralysed,
the Broken Hill business is demoralised, and the tram-
ways are nearing completion. And, in considering the
S. Australian figures, it must always be remembered that
those relating to the Northern Territory are excised,
in view of the probability of the taking-over and
development of the Northern Territory by the Com-
monwealth. If that undertaking falls through, 8.
Australia will have to add between £150,000 and
£lBO,OOO a year to its net expenditure ; and that will turn
almost its best surplus into a deficit. And this is a con-
sequence apart altogether from the general disaster
which is liable to fall upon Australia if the Territory is
allowed to lie fallow. Practically every item in the
revenue returns of the State shows a shrinkage ; but most
serious of all is the fall of £36,322 in the railway returns
and the certainty that the fall will be worse still in the
current six months.
* * * m
The N.S.W. wheat statistics show up fairlv
well; the official estimate gives the State a 12 6 bushel
harvest, which is better than that of any year in the past
decade, barring the phenomenal 1903-4." That sounds
very good ; but, unfortunately, these are statistics that
have to be handled like gun-cotton. For it is only the
area actually harvested for grain that is reckoned in"; the
area over which there was so shocking a failure that the
crop wasn’t worth harvesting is disregarded. The most
striking thing about the figures, when you include the
failures and the partial failures, is that the area which was
put under crop has been shrinking .year by year lately:—
Failed or Total
Harvested. Partly Failed. Cropped.
Acres. Acres. Acres.
1905 .. 1,939,447 313,582 2,253,029
1906 .. 1,866,253 333,689 2,199,942
1907 .. 1,390,171 579,810 1,969,981
1908' .. 1,248,755 689,226 1,937,981
And this after all the talk there has been about closer
settlement 1 The area shown as “ failed or partly failed ”
includes that which was cut for hay. In a few districts
even good wheat crops are cut for hay ; but the aggre-
gate area thus treated is very small. The crops designed
for horse-feed are rarely wheat crops.
* * * *
Some day the law may instruct Australian
banks to balance on certain prescribed dates ; but at
present, without any such law, they follow their own in-
clinations, or their own special habits, and some of the
habits are as bad as old habits are apt to be. A few do
the sensible thing and balance at the end of March and
September; the Union some years ago went from June
and December to February and August; but the sinners
that still hang on to the bad old practice of balancing in
December and June—about the most unsuitable dates
that could possibly be chosen, especially in Australia
—still include the Australian Deposit and Mortgage,
Ballarat, North Queensland, Victoria, City of Sydney,
Commercial of Sydney, Commercial of Australia, E.S. & A.
(which, however, only issues yearly accounts, after the
June balance), Q.N., and Victoria. The Royal of Queens-
land went over to the March-September list during the
past year ; and if a few others will let their stock of
mortgage forms and other stationery run down by way of
preparing for the same change-over, The Bulletin will
join their staffs in proposing a vote of thanks and signify-
ing in the usual manner. And, anyhow, apart from the
convenience of the staffs, banks would study their own
interests by breaking themselves of the habit of balancing
at the end of December, which is a time when the Stock
Exchanges are closed and other business is more or less
disorganised, and when it is extremely difficult to get any
of that “ cleaning-up ” done which is always more or less
associated with the balancing operation.
In a comparison of banking results it is there-
fore impossible to do the thing thoroughly ; the period
covered can’t be exactly the same in every case. In the
figures that follow the results are those of the 12 months
covered by the sheets issued during 1908 (except in the
case of the Royal of Queensland, whose figures are for
nine months only). The aggregate figures are as follows :
Dividends paid £1,395,339
To reserves and written off .. 970,673
Voted by Colonial Bank to a new
Benevolent Fund .. .. 10,000
Total profits .. .. £2,376,012
Thus of the total profit 59T per cent, was paid away in
dividends, as against 56'4 per cent, in the previous year,
leaving a shade over Bs. in every £ either written off or
put to reserves ; and in practice those two things amount
to the same thing. Besides the amounts shown as written
off, other amounts were no doubt treated in the same way
without being first shown as profits. In the case of the
Commercial Bank of Australia £53,011 was charged direct
to profit and loss for the benefit of the Assets Trust, the
concern which took over the worst-looking of the assets
at the time of the ’93 trouble. This amount is not in-
cluded in the next list
Total
~, .. Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
Adelaide .. .. £56,510 9 p.c. = £36,000 £326,014
Australasia .. 400,779 14 „,, 224,000 1,566,104
A "L S 16,218 Nil. 30,602
Ballarat 8,057 7 „ „ 5,950 73,935
City of Syd. .. 14,303 3 ~ 12,000 13,423
Colonial (Melb.).. 46,706 6 ~ ~ 26,356 126,208
Com. of Aus. .. 103,693 *3 ~ „ 03,520 282,661
Com. of Syd. .. 173,978 10 ~ ~123,708 1,277,930
Com. of Tas. .. 33,392 12 ~ ~ 22,050 185,148
Depos. & Mort. .. 12,645 -• » 4,767
E - S - &A 62,383 5 ” ” 26,’972 201,990
London .. .. 34,951 {$ » » 46,527
National (Melb.).. 91,322 5 ~ ~ 74,910 186,260
National (Tas.) .. 17,257 7 ~ ~ 11,174 46,256
National (M.L.).. 71,045 12 ~ ~ 45,000 361,363
N. S. Wales .. 324,670 10 ~ ~249,399 1,636,916
New Zealand .. 329,923 7J ~ ~ 87,500 504,098
AorthQ’land .. 7,048 4 4,351 23,226
V-N 87,088 Nil. 69,000
Royal (Melb.) .. 25,214 7 „,, 14,000 99,155
Royal (Q.) .. 19,073 41 ~ ~ 17,306 72,377
Union .. .. 291,748 14 ~ ~ 210,000 1,266,058
Victoria .. .. 99,984 5 ~ ~ 73,900 218,574
Westralia .. 45,025 20 ~ ~ 34,506 464,769
*Pref. shares. fOrdinary shares.
Only two banks paid no dividend—the Q.N. and the
A. J.S. The Q.N.*sprofit of £87,088 was cut up like this: —
Written off, £47,088 ; repaid private depositors, £30,000 :
to reserves, £lO,OOO. The A. J.S. Bank’s disclosed profit
a much better profit than has been shown for many
years all went to reserves, which, of course, in view of
the suspected large depreciation of values, are purely
formal. The Commercial of Australia also pays no divi-
dend on ordinary shares. The E.S. and A. applied
£19,590 of its profit to the repurchase of old deposits at a
small discount; the amount is then written off assets.
The least favorable feature of the year is the
reduction, in some cases, of the liquid assets held in pro-
portion to debts to the public. This list shows how
matters stand in that respect, excluding' those banks
which have a special arrangement with creditors with
regard to old deposits
Debt to Liquid
, , , ~ Public. Assets. Ratio.
Adelaide .. .. £3,573,611 £2,226,230 62'3 p.c.
Australasia .. 19,173,893 5,948,268 31'0 „
Ballarat .. .. 243,426 85,560 35'0 „
City of Sydney .. 1,351,855 335,496 24'8 „
Colonial .. .. 3,212,381 823,756 25'6 „
Com. of Sydney .. 17,215,187 7,944,161 46'1 „
Com. of Tas. .. 1,604,024 457,267 28'5 ~
National (Melb.) .. 8,427,373 2,447,433 29'0
National (M.L.) .. 4,486,206 1,812,168 40'4 „
National (Tas.) .. 684,273 111,286 19-0 „
N.S. Wales.. .. 31,200,394 12,554,262 40'2 „
New Zealand .. 15,522,716 7,399,884 47'7 „
N. Queensland .. 584,282 183,708 31-4 „
Royal (Melb.) .. 1,251,446 364,479 29T „
Royal (Q.) .. 1,156,525 443,195 38'3 ~
U/uon .. .. 22,470,026 9,924,004 44’2 „
Victoria .. .. 6,113,306 1,441,549 23'6
Westralia .. .. 2,241,793 1,011,953 45 T „
Perhaps no hard and fast rule can be laid down, yet there
ought to be some minimum below which a bank should
not be permitted to go ; and it is highly probable that
two or three Australian banks have passed that point. It
is poor policy >it may seem good business to make use of
every possible penny, yet it will be seen that in almost
every case the banks with the most substantial holding of
assets are those also which show the largest profits and
dividends. And they certainly are in the best position to
take other business and increase their profits. The others
must pass business, no matter how good it may be.
Generally, bank shares about held their own
during the year ; and in almost every case they show a
remarkable rise as compared with, say, 1902. Here are
the closing quotations for the year, limiting the list to
stocks commonly dealt in on Australian Exchanges :
1902. 1906. 1907. 1908.
City .. .. £3 18 6 £3 11 6 £3 12 6 £2 15 0
City, new .. 311 0 3 5 0 3 7 6 213 0
Com of Syd. .. 26 12 63200 28 0 0 27 10 0
N.S.W. .. 40 17 6 48 0 0 43 5 0 45 12 6
Colonial .. 100 210 Ift 6 118 0
pref. .. 8 5 0 12 0 0 11 10 0 11 15 0
Com of Aus. .. 4 0 14 9 10 1 10 3
~ pref. 400 696 513 0 512 6
National .. 210 0 414 0 411 0 415 0
„ pref... 10 10 0 11 5 0 11 10 6 11 7 0
Royal (Melb.) 15 6 113 6 183 153
Victoria .. 119 6 415 6 413 6 411 0
„ pref... 10 001180 11 60 11 06
Q. National .. 20 15 0 16 6100
Royal (Q.) .. 219 0 415 0 414 0 417 6
N. Queensland 12 6 110 111 6 114 6
Adelaide .. 650 710 711 0 715 0
Australasia .. 83 0 0 100 0 0 101 0 0 108 0 0
Union .. .. 37 0 0 54 0 0 58 17 6 63 0 0
National, N.Z. 450 511 0 576 536
New Zealand.. 350 900 915 0 810 0
London Bank shares (ordinaries), which in 1904 were as
low as £1 4s. 6d., are worth £3 2s. 6d., against £3 15s. 6d.
at the close of 1907 ; prefs. (£lO paid) are unchanged at
about £lO 10s. E. S. and A. (£l2 10s. paid) have been
steady at about £lO 15s. (middle). These shares are
rarely quoted in Australia. The Commercial of Sydney,
the N. S. Wales, and the Royal (Melb.) have made new
issues at prices which have amounted to a cash bonus to
shareholders.
When the financial crisis happened in 1893
Australian banks had to turn the key on £89,845,428 of
the public’s money. Most of these locked-up deposits
were quickly liberated: some were converted into pref.
shares, others were repaid with money realised from the
sale of securities, from calls, from profits, or from the
new deposits that came flowing in with the return of
better conditions. Only five banks have now any of the
old trouble exposed on their balance-sheets; and this
comparison shows what progress they have made :
Owed Owed Amount
in in Cleared
1893. 1908. Off.
A. J.S £11,772,847 £3,762,807 £8,010,040
London.. .. 7,384,600 939,220 6,445,380
Q.N 9,279,344 4,149,793 5,129,551
Com. of Aus. .. 12,635,066 2,382,172 10,252,894
E. S. and A. .. 7,028,679 2,654,394 4,374,285
Other banks .. 41,744,892 41,744,892
£89,845,428 £13,888,386 £75,957,042
The quotations for these deposit receipts range from about
10s. 3d. in the £, in the case of the inscribed intermin-
able stock of the A. J. S. Bank, to par in the case of the
London Bank’s old deposits. The quotations are not,
however, a complete guide to the prospects of the various
concerns. The London, for instance, made a very poor
bargain with its old creditors, to whom it undertook to
pay 4£ per cent. ; and that high rate of interest governs
the quotation. A better view can be got by finding out
what investment return is required ; and it will be found
that, except in the case of the A. J.S., so high a price is
now paid that in no case, even allowing for redemption
at par, is 5 per cent, realised on the investment. This
comparison shows the present prices (best buyers) and
the approximate investment return compared with those
of three years ago
Close of ’O5. Close of ’OB.
Price. Return. Price. Return.
s. d. p.c. s. d. p.c.
A.J.S. B deposits .. 12 6 8i 11 0 10
A.J.S. interminable.. 11 0 6£ 10 3 6j
Com. of Australia .. 14 6 7 17 6 4§
E.S. &A. Stock .. 17 0 4| 18 0 4f
~ Pref. .. 12 3 4J 12 6 4f
„ Def. .. 16 6 5J 18 0 4£
London .. .. 19 6 4J 20 0 4J
Q.N. ' .. .. 14 9 4| 16 6- 4J-
The A.J.S. is thus the one concern which has fallen back ;
and that is probably due to the great delay in producing a
scheme for cleaning-up things. There is, however, a very
good prospect that something will be done in the near
future. The bank is now under new and more vigorous
management, shareholders (who still are mostly liable for
£2 10s. per share) should be in a better position to pay
up something than they were a few years back, and,
in view of the good outlook for banking business, the
holders of the old deposit receipts would, no doubt, be
for the most part willing to convert all or some of their
holding into shares.
* • » *
The new issue of shares in Dalgety and Co.,
Ltd., has been made available for public subscription ;
but the notice inviting the public to come in gives no
information at all as to how the allotment is to be made.
The shares are 5 per cent, preference, non-cumulative ;
they rank in priority of all other shares as to return of
capital. The paid capital on June 30 last was £1,000,000
in shares of £2O, paid to £5, and there was a debenture
and debenture-stock debt of £2,793,690. In spite of the
latter debt, the preference now offered is very substantial,
seeing that there is £1,000,000 of ordinary capital and
£340,311 of reserves, the earnings of which are to be avail-
able to pay pref. dividend, after, of course, providing the
interest on the debenture debt, assuming that the latter
can’t at any time earn its own interest. In 24 years the
ordinary shares have never paid less than 6 per cent.,
and in all but two years something in excess of that has
been paid—usually it has been 8 per cent. Applications
close this day (January 14).
* * • *
H. McKenzie, Ltd., timber merchants, etc.
(Sydney):—
Dividends.
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. lOp.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Sept.,’o6.. £5674 £2OOO 5 p.c. = £937 £2737 £2,737
Mar., '07.. 4267 2000 6 ~ „ 1125 1142 3,879
Sept.,’o7.. 8466 2000 7 „ „ 1992 4474 8,353
Mar., ’OB.. 7499 2000 7 „ ~ 2029 3470 11,823
Sept.,’oB.. 7472 2000 7 „ ~ 2029 3443 15,266
The published accounts are, however, a mere skeleton.
No profit and loss account is furnished, and the directors’
report does not help at all to fill in the gaps. At the end
of the first half-year the expenses of flotation were
written off ; but it was not mentioned what the expenses
amounted to. The result is that the profits for the fol-
lowing half-year have to carry this appropriation, which
explains the shrinkage shown for that period. Subse-
quently fresh capital was issued; but whether it all
carries dividend for the term in which it first appears in
the balance-sheet is not disclosed; in the foregoing
it is assumed that it has carried the dividend. The pay-
ment of the dividend for the last half-year was “deferred"
in consequence of the large expenditure ou capital
account, as reported in 13. 7/l/’O9. It is doubtful whether
it ought to be treated in the foregoing table as adividend
until the money has been shown as actually appropriated.
The reserves are to some extent of a special character,
and part of them may not be real reserves at all:—Divi-
dend equalisation reserve, £3260; reserve, ordinary shares,
£2828 ; plant and building reserve (which may possibly be
a set-off against depreciation), £4324 ; special reserve,
£3548 ; unappropriated profit (after allowing for the half-
year’s dividends), £1316, a portion of which last is, how-
ever, to be also transferred to ordinary share reserve. The
pref. shares carry 10 per cent, for six years ; apparently
this ordinary-share reserve is to provide for payment of
dividend on ordinary shares in the event of a half-year’s
profit being insufficient to pay much more than the pref.
dividend. The first issue of ordinary shares went to the
vendors ; but there was a subsequent issue of £20,480 in
ordinaries for which pref. shareholders also subscribed.
In spite of the increase of capital debts have grown like
this:—
Sept., ’06.. .. £11,042 I Mar., 'OB .. .. £38,342
Mar., ’07.. .. 31,415 Sept.,’oB .. .. 60,368
Sept., ’07.. .. 39,848 I
Of the £40,000 put up by the public in the first place the
vendor took none, but two-thirds of it had to be applied
to the wiping out of liabilities. That didn’t leave much
for new plant, etc. ; and it is into new plant and in-
creased stocks that the bulk of the money has gone.
How much has been written off the old plant isn’t men-
tioned. In fact, hardly anything is mentioned. It is a
case of putting complete trust in the directors, and of
those directors there is only one who was not concerned
in the flotation. Kent, Brierley and Sully saw the
flotation through ; A. J. Brierley (of K., B. and S.) is the
chairman ; the office is at K., B. and Sully’s ; K., B. and S.
are also the auditors. If Kent, Brierley and Sully’s re-
putation were not as excellent as it is, the public might
quite likely say that there was too much of one firm
about it, especially in view of the slender amount of in-
formation published concerning the co.’s finances.
Hotel Mktropole, Ltd. (Sydney), which
began with a deficit of £BB2, representing preliminary
expenses :
Written To Re- De-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. licit.
£BB2
Dec., Reserves.
1906.. £12,322 6 p.c. = £5550 £1564 £5208 £4,326
1907.. 12,891 6 „ „ 5550 7341 11,667
1908.. 14,573]*® » » *°®°] 8273 19,940
"Preference. (Ordinary.
For many years the Hotel Metropole, Ltd., was a Mel-
bourne Co. carrying on business in Sydney; but in
1905 the business was re-organised, the co. was
re-formed and re-registered, and a Sy’dnev Board
was appointed. The majority of the shares are
still, however, held in Victoria, so the meetings of
shareholders are still held in Melbourne, and, according to
the articles, will be held there until the majority of shares
pass out of Victorian hands. The capital consists of
£17,507 in 6 per cent. pref. shares and£7s,ooo in ordinary
shares ; the latter were also limited to 6 per cent, till a
mortgage of £25,000 was wiped out. At the date of the
last balance-sheet (Dec. 31, 1908), £6OOO was still owing on
mortgage ; presumably, as a bonus of 1 per cent, on
ordinaries has been declared, this debt is now paid off
—there were £6587 of deposits and £872 in Government
stock to do it with. The clearing off of the lia-
bility has been remarkably rapid ; even so late as 12
months ago it stood at £22,000, though there was then
in hand over £13,000 in liquid assets. The reserves
are made up as follows: —Machinery renewal reserve,
£2000; furniture renewal reserve, £2000; general
renewal reserve, £1000; reserve fund, £11,000; un-
appropriated profit, £3940. The real value of
some of these funds is not too certain. The
furniture and other renewal reserves may' be re-
garded as amounts set aside to provide for special re-
newals. Current repairs and renewals are charged up to
working expenses ; these other appropriations must be
regarded as more or less a further provision for current
wear and tear. The reserves are, therefore, probably not
all true reserves, nor are the profits shown all true
profits. Still, if the appropriations to these reserves no
more than cover depreciation, the co.’s history for the
past three years has been admirable : for £33,222 of net
profit has been made. The pref. dividend is limited to
6 p.c. ; that for three years would absorb £3150, leaving
£30,072 for the ordinary shareholders ; and that is at the
rate of over 13 p.c. p.a. This, as explained, is after pro-
viding £6564 to cover depreciation, in addition to what-
ever may have been charged direct to working expenses.
* * * *
For the year to Oct. 31, 1907, Paul and Gray,
Ltd., ship-chandlers, &c., of Sydney’, Brisbane, New-
castle and elsewhere, showed a net profit of £14,388, of
which £12,019 was paid away in dividends. The reserves
(exclusive of marine insurance fund, £272) then stood at
£4520. The co. (first noted here 25/6/’08) had in the pre-
vious six years accumulated reserves of 0n1y'£2423, which
wasn’t anything to be very proud of. In the past year
things improved so far as the reserves were concerned.
Out of the profit of £9142 the 10 per cent, dividend ab-
sorbed £7468, leaving £1674 to go to reserves, which
are thus brought up to £6194, exclusive of insurance
fund, £268. During the year 6000 new shares were issued
at a premium of ss. each (£1500) to buy Schreuder and
Svensen’s business in Melbourne ; £4OO of this premium
went in wiping out a goodwill item in connection with
this Melbourne business, £lOO in pay'ing expenses in con-
nection with the purchase, and the balance (£1000) has
been added to reserves. Apparently, there is no
goodwill item now; and as the vendor of the
Melbourne business took 2000 shares at 255., he,
in a sense, paid for the goodwill himself. At the
same time, as the shares are worth about 28s. or
295., he probably didn’t complain about the bargain. The
paid capital is now £74,682 ; the authorised capital is
£BO,OOO, but there are still 5318 unissued shares. At
the date of the balance (Oct. 31) things have looked like
this in the past two years :
1907. 1908.
Total liabilities.. .. £29,021 £40,724
Properties .. .. 17,740 18,025
Stock-in-trade .. .. 63,329 81,928
Sundry debtors .. 26,916 22,742
Other assets consist of plant and fixtures (£2865) and a
few small items. In spite of the increase of capital, there
has thus been a heavy i ncrease of debt, represented on
the other side by stock-in-trade. This stock item, in fact,
represents more than the whole capital and reserves of
the co. Of the liabilities £20,426 is overdraft. The posi-
tion of the co. depends entirely upon the real value of the
stock-in-trade : if that very large item is over-valued,
then the profits are over-stated ; if it is under-valued,
then the profits are more than are set out. Upon that
point one can’t judge from the published figures. This
and the size of the overdraft and other liabilities are the
main features to be taken into account. Depreciation
(apparently of properties and plant) is allowed for to the
extent of £530, in addition to the sum spent on mainten-
ance and repairs.
The most unintelligible thing about the row at
Broken Hill was why the men refused the offer of the
B. H. Prop, to keep at work at the new rates, with a
guarantee that, if the Arbitration Court fixed anything
higher, the excess as from January 1 would be- paid to
each man. In other words, the co. offered to make the
award date back to January I, no matter when it might
be delivered ; and of course there was no quarrel before
January I—up to that date the old award was in force.
The men, however, had been worked up into a state
of unrest. In a place like Broken Hill life is a
deadly grind for the working man. He gets no
fortnight off in the year, with a trip away, to look to ; he
doesn’t go in for racing to any great extent (in fact, he
only goes in for it to a very small extent) ; he isn’t much
of a football or cricket enthusiast. The monotony is un-
broken, and so, instead of going on a raging “ tear ” like
the occasional bushman, he goes on strike. It doesn’t
look much of an explanation, but it is the best available.
If he had struck calmly and deliberately, he certainly
wouldn’t have struck when he did, and especially under
the circumstances just mentioned. There are times
when the mines want to work on almost any terms that
men might choose to name. Two years ago any sort of a
workman was worth big money. At present there is
hardly any profit in the business, and the British and
Block 14 have preferred to lie idle and save up their ore.
It isn’t therefore a bit of punishment to the B. H. Prop,
to lay that mine idle too. In fact, the men’s real chief
concern is, not how to keep a mine from working, but
how to make it keep on working—paying, of course,
decent wages. They obviously can't do that by picketing
the mine and keeping men from going on to it; their
scheme was to jump at the B. H. Prop.’s offer to keep the
mine open on terms to be fixed by the Arbitration Court,
assured that, if they can’t get a generous, not to say just,
award from Justice Higgins they can’t get it from any
man on the Australian Bench.
* * •
The wheels having stopped, General Manager
Delprat, of the B. H. Prop., will now have the chance he
has been wanting to sort out the staff and re-organise
things on a less expensive basis. During 21 years, some
of them years of great prosperity, the B. H. Prop, has
been accumulating dead weight in the shape of officials
who could be very well done without. Directors and
others have had men put on from time to time, and these
are the sort of men that are hardest to get rid of. It
didn’t matter so much when things were prosperous, but
the B. H. Prop, isn’t what it used to be, and thing*
matter a good deal now that didn’t use to matter much.
From that point of view, and assuming that the re-
organisation is thorough, the co. will in the long run be
in pocket over this disturbance.
* * * *
One of the most unpleasant incidents of the
Broken Hill trouble was an attack made on Worsley, the
mine surveyor, and other officials—mostly clerks who had
been up paying off the men. It happened outside the
picket lines, so that the pickets can’t be blamed for the
foolishness ; it was the work of asses who didn’t recognise
that the less unpleasant they can make it for men to come
off the mine the better. The co. is offering a £5OO re-
ward for the discovery of the offenders.
* * * »
The Tewkesbury Proprietary, the big £lOO,OOO
dredging proposition on the Shoalhaven (N.S.W.), is
getting three dredges ready, each with a capacity of from
15,000 to 20,000 yards a week, and costing about £lO,OOO.
These are easily the biggest gold dredges in Australia;
the average capacity of the Victorian and N.S.W. dredges
is about 6000 or 7000 yards, though some in the Bright
district have done as much as 12,000 or 13,000 yards under
favorable conditions. P. N. Tewkesbury, the managing
director, is prospecting the area thoroughly. Before the
co. was floated £lOOO was spent on it; and as Tewkes-
bury’s idea is to take nothing for granted, and to know
exactly what ought to be got, dozens of other shafts have
been sunk. Bores the co. evidently has no use for,
except to test depth ; only shafts (sft. x 2ft. 6in. mostly)
are relied on. To ascertain the value, the total cubical
contents are divided into the bullion actually recovered
in the boxes. The value varies from 2d. up to lOd. and
averages sd. or a shade over. The gold is there—the
quantity is better than that of the Bright areas where
Tewkesbury made his name as a dredging engineer with-
out a failure in his record. The only question is whether
it can be saved. It is nearly all fine—some of it very fine
—and most of it is flakey ; and on this rock Braidwood
dredges and sluices have hitherto come to grief.
Special appliances have now been designed to get over
this trouble; double boxes, with side boxes having
a reduced fall for the finer sand, will be used,
the object being to spread the sand over a wide area ; in
order to give the gold a chance of getting on to the
matting at the bottom. If the three big dredges succeed,
they will be followed by others ; the co., after testing a
big area of ground, has hung on to 1000 acres, and there
is room on that for eight or nine plants. Costs can, of
course, only be estimated, but they should not exceed 2d.
per yard, and on the Victorian experience they ought to
be a trifle less considering the size of the dredges. The
claims are, with one exception, off the river; in that
respect they are like the claims in which Tewkesbury is
concerned at Bright. The co. is in 100,000 shares—
-45,000 preference paid to 55., 25,000 fully paid to £l, and
30,000 in reserve.
* * * *
The Redbank, Araluen (N.S.W.), ought now to
give a good account of itself. During a spell of three
months the dredge has been remodelled, and the co. has
now a first rate plant. The Steam Shovel Co., in the
same district, is doing nothing. The plan of working the
ground is now pretty clearly proved impracticable ; and
what chance it had the antiquity of the plant destroyed.
* * # *
Queen Bee (N.S.W.), the good little Cobar dis-
trict copper mine which suffers from indifferent manage-
ment, now wants to raise £7OOO on 10 percent, debentures
in order to put the plant into good condition. Ex-chair-
man of directors Fox, who took on the mine-management
a few months ago, has got the mine itself into very fair
shape ; and £7OOO may possibly do what is needed on top.
But an available capital of £15,000 would have been a lot
better.
* * * *
At June 30, 1907, the Lloyd Copper Co.
(N.S. \¥.) had a profit and loss balance of £22,333 ; but,
though work was either wholly stopped or greatly re-
duced during most of the year, by June 30, 1908, the
balance was back to £13,242. Thus the loss for the 12
months was £9091. Of that, however, the actual loss on
working account was only £1220 ; the balance (£7871) was
written off to cover depreciation. When the year opened
there was on hand matte and copper whichhadcost£lo,244
to produce ; in the figures given above it is assumed that
that product was sold at exactly cost price. Fortunately,
as the result of the copper boom the old debentures
(£50,000) were paid off: the first instalment of £lO,OOO


For Security
Stability
Economy
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
stands alone.
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents.
2, 4, 0 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
duty per day.
IVANHOE C.M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANGE ' 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL 8.07 „
SONS OF CWALIA 8.84 „
Australian Offices:
Equitable Building, Melbourne,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating &. Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne;
Kobn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Eleotrloal Machinery and Materials of all Unda.tfi
disappeared in 1906. and the balance during 1907-8. On
June 80,1908, the position was
Sundry debtors £ls >°'°
Cash
Total liquid assets .. .. £15,544
Less sundry creditors .. .. 10,^18
Surplus £5,226
While the works were running short time costs rose as
Wh Is £B5 17s 7d. per ton ; when they were running
mfl ttoe, costswere P £sB 6s.’ sd. The average (for 960
tons refined copper) was £57 18s. 6d.
“It now resolves itself,” managing director
Corbould wrote to Lloyd’s shareholders last July .’ into
a question of a tramway or a railway to obtain the
necessary supply of fuel to start the mine in full swing
again as without the above class of traction I cannot
hold out the least hope of the mine ever producing another
ton of copper.” For 30 years the mine has been worked
nn the fuel in the neighborhood, and there is none left
within practicable distance for teams. The problem was
whether it was worth while paying to lay down a tramway
in view of the fact that the lode was so faulted that, when
work was knocked off, there was hardly any ore in sight.
Corbould admits that he does not think it will ever be a
mine in which one can say that he can see even three
years’ ore in sight: but he does not see why the ore
should not be as good and plentiful east of the main
fault as it has been west of it, from 29 acres of which
some 16,700 tons of copper has been won. (It has to be
noted that the Lloyd lode is nearly fiat; hence the
reference to the acreage.) “If the co. had gone on ore in
sight it would have closed down the mine 20 times in the
past five years.” With a flat lode, of course, accidents are
specially liable to happen ; but, on the past history of
Lloyd’s, further work is certainly called for, including the
construction of the indispensable tram, if the Govern-
ment does not carry it through. Apart from the un-
certain metal market, Lloyd’s never will be a property
into which the widow’s and the orphan’s mite ought to be
put: moreover, the co. ought never to have paid the
price it did. But there are thousands of worse gambles
than the £1 shares now that they have got d °wn to
under 4s There are 280,000 shares, with another 20,000
unissued’. Still the man who expects even a moderate
return within a year or so will very likely be disappointed.
The end of 1908 found a frantic struggle going on
in the West to spruce up the drooping gold output.
Kalgoorlie is alleged to have put on weight during the
past year, and one or two other centres are reckoned to
have done the same. “ Great revivals ” are also reported
in other districts, notably Norseman and Wiluna ; but as
newspaper revivals, great and small, generally mean that
a knowing crowd has got in on the ground floor and
wants to use (and invariably does use) the newspapers to
land the public on the top story or the roof, fields that
have such things are best viewed critically. Despite all
the “ revivals,” it is notable that the output is still almost
entirely made up of returns from a few big mines ; and
while some of these have done their dash, no others are
on hand to take their place.
* * * *
Boulder Deep Levels (W. A.), managed in Lon-
don, seems to be a gold mine for officials. Accounts for
21 months ended June last have now wandered out and
show the total income—almost wholly interest on de-
posits—to have been £253, while the expenditure (mostly
salaries and pickings) runs out at £4303, leaving a deficit
on the period of £4050, The co. still had about £11,250
when the accounts were made up, but how much has
been frittered away since then is not stated. This is a
matter, however, about which shareholders should insist
on being enlightened. A “careful sampling” of the
surface dumps is said to have indicated the presence of
3000 tons of 7'o2dwt. ore, while the co. has it on
the word of Hooper and Speak, who examined
the mine some time back, that there are 71,508 tons
of ore worth 30s. 4d. a ton blocked out on two sides
underground. Although these reserves are reckoned to
be payable, “if werked on a sufficiently large scale,”
the Board does not consider it wise to tackle the job of
treatment at present. Something about the prospective
value of the property being considerably enhanced by
recent discoveries in adjacent mines is tacked on to the
report, and a line or two about the manifest advantages
which would accrue from an amalgamation with other
properties in the neighborhood is also added ; but while
the Board claims that it is doing its best to effect such a
combination, it offers no explanation for the past 21
months’ extravagant administration.
• * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) presented accounts for
two years ended August last at a shareholders meeting
in London on December 3. For the first half of this term
tributors recovered £5300 and battery rent brought gross
revenue up to £6142. Working expenses absorbed £6996 ;
so there was a loss on the year’s working of £854. For
the balance of the period covered by the report the total
receipts were £11,433 ; and, after deducting £10,633 for
expenses, £BOO of profit remained. The management
reckons that the present policy of working the property
on tribute has proved that the co. can make money from
oxidised ore which was previously unpayable, and op* 1 ) 88
that the same thing can be done with the sulphides. This
optimistic view of things, coupled with the fact that at
present the mine is producing more ore than can be
treated, has induced the Board to consider whether it
would not be as well to erect more stamps.
* • • •
North Kalgurli (W.A.) is itching to push off its
unissued shares on somebody. At the recent meeting
the prospective value of these shares was alleged to be
far greater than “ for many years past,” and the possi-
bilities of the mine were said to have been given a big
lift as the result of recent developments in the Lake
View and South Kalgurli—which developments, by the
way, have since tailed off to almost nothing. Should
discoveries such as these come a little closer to the pro-
perty, the directors hope that the market will jump and
enable them to unload the dead stock now in the safe ;
but, judging by the present outlook, Dill-Macky stands as
good a chance of being made a Cardinal. At present the
North Kalgurli is saving a little money because it is in
the hands of tributors, so that it has all revenue and no
expenditure; yet, even so, after the London office lias
had its cut, there is very little left.
* * . *
The Board of the Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) should
explain itself. Concurrently with the £2OOO increase in
the monthly output comes the inspired announcement
that “ the influence of this increase on future dividends
cannot yet be accurately judged, as additional outlay is
likely to be incurred in construction, development, and
plant necessary to deal with the ore in the south end of
the mine, which is located a considerable distance from
the main shaft.” Some time ago the return was put up
to provide for expenditure on new plant, and when this
charge had been met the return was promptly brought
down again. Now arises a question as to the Board’s in-
tentions in the present case ; also, why the Gwalia, which
for size and capitalisation is as good as anything in the
West, is not producing more gold and paying better
dividends.
Taking Shallcross’s figures as gospel, Gwalia
Consolidated (W.A.) has £130,000 profit above 100 ft., ana
an additional £13,200 embedded in the partially-treated
mill residues. The accounts show an available casn
balance of £36,000 ; so, apart from the value of the plant
and what is below 100 ft., the co. estimates it has £l79.uw
in hand, or lying handy. But the cash in hand will n
last long with extra plant and extensive development
ahead, and after the cash has gone the co. will have
get hold of the abundance of gold talked about by tne
interested experts who have lately inspected the pr -
perty. If it doesn’t grab some of it pretty quickly it wm
again be a derelict. At present it is better for
public to look on than be tied up.
* * * *
At the end of last August Oroya-Black Range
(W.A.) had £8640 in hard cash, £8413 locked up in stores,
and £8713 loaned out to sundry debtors. Liabilities
stood at £5384 ; so, reckoning stores at their book value,
the co. was £20,382 ahead of it at that time. A diviaena
of Is. 6d., absorbing £15,000, has since been paid ; out
this amount has been offset by current profits, ine
year’s accounts show that, after making provision for a
charges, including development and depreciation
and paying Is. dividend, a surplus of £20,885 re-
mained. During the year the loan of £20,459 advanc
by the Oroya-Brown Hill was repaid, and £8459 was spent
in additional plant. Developments are described as en-
couraging, and ore reserves are now estimated at two
years’ supplies at the present rate of output.
• * * *
Scrip holders in the West have kicked at last
and sent a mandate to the Marvel Loch Board, demand-
incr a change of management. The malcontents st
that they are full up of paying calls without seeing any-
thing in return, and the directors are told to either make
a change or stand a possible censure from a special meet-
ing of shareholders.
# * * *
The Orion (W.A.) held a meeting in London
last month, when everyone followed the lead of the chair-
man, and tried to look pleasant. Much was made of the
recent discovery of 13dwt. ore at 370 ft., and mutual con-
gratulations were the chief feature of the gathering u
the accounts were passed. Then someone wanted to
know something about the repayment of borr
money, and someone else inquired whether the
of shares for outstanding debts and the raising of further
capital would tend to expedite the payment of dividends,
but as the chairman deprecated the unanimity of the
proceedings being disturbed by such inquiries, the qu -
tioners considered themselves crushed, and the meeting
was wound up. The only redeeming feature about this
co. is its comparatively small capitalisation. Yet, even
so, its chances of ever paying dividends are remote.
* * « *
Burbank’s Main Lode (W.A.) seems to have
contracted the bad habit of declaring dividends as soon
as, or sooner than, it has earned them. Last balance-
sheet showed a “profit” of £6400. It, however, also showed
creditors for nearly £6OOO, as against £3OOO actual cash
resources ; yet the latter amount was ear-marked to pay
alO per cent, dividend. Having done this, an extra-
ordinary meeting was held, and £lO,OOO additional capital
was raised by the issue of 50,000 new shares of 4s. each.
This is one way of keeping up an appearance, but it is a
rotten one. Last year the same dividend was paid, yet
the net profit did not amount to more than £2OOO. it is
time this sort of finance was stamped on.
» * * *
Lancefield (W.A.) expects to resume ore-treat-
ment early in April. Govett and Hoover have left the
Board, and their places have been taken by Algernon
Moreing and ex-Gov. Jerry Smith.
* * * *
* Inspired London pars assert that increased
attention is being paid to Whim Wells (W.A.), owing to
the resumption of shipments and improved price of
copper. The co. declares it will have no difficulty in
shipping 400 tons of 20 per cent, ore a month, on which a
profit of £6 per ton is figured. The dispatch of double
that quantity is promised later on, while a smelting plant
is again spoken of. All this is pleasant reading for
trustful shareholders and makes scoffers think a bit. ine
co.’s estimates, however, are heavily discounted, and the
feeling prevails in the West that it is an unreliable
tipster with an axe to grind.
* • * *
As reported in The Bulletin the other day
(24/12/’08), the profit of Mt. Morgan (Q.) for the half-year
to the end of November was £131,828, less £23,981 written
off to cover wear and tear, leaving £107,847 net. One Is.
dividend (£50,000) was paid during the half-year and
another was payable on January 2. There is, however,
another way of presenting the matter. The reserves and
funds of all kinds compared at May 31,1908, with those
at November 30 as follows :
May 31. November 30.
Insurance Fund.. .. £35,602 £35,288 Dec. £314
Reserve Fund . . .. 50,000 60,000 _
Contingent Account .. 67,243 60,427 Inc. 3,184
P. &L. Account.. .. 3,421 85,251 1nc.181,830
£146,266 £230,966 Inc. 84,700
Add Dividend (l/7/’08) 50,000
Total gross profit £134,700
The contingent account was established during the period
of high metal prices to provide against possible reclama-
tions—that is to say, in case of a sudden slump in metal
values, resulting in the co. finding at the final reckoning
that it had been overpaid. The co. has since pursued the
same careful policy, and in consequence finds that, in-
stead of having to make refunds, it has received more
than it has taken credit for; hence the growth of _the
contingency account during the half-year. Including
that growth, as shown above, the gross profit was
£134,700, and the net profit £110,719.
Mt. Morgan handles three classes of ore—the
old oxidised ore, which has to be rummaged for these
days, and now yields only 3*30 dwt. per ton as against
12*52dwt. only five years ago; the sulphide gold ore,
which is also of rather less value (9 - 32dwt.) than formerly;
and the auriferous copper ore. The quantities, etc.,
handled in the half-year work out as follows
Value.
S' ' \
Tons. Gold. Copper.
Oxidised .. •• 59,653 3*3odwt.
Sulphide .. .. 64,022 9'32 „ ’36 p.c.
Copper .. .. 98,735 8'37 „ 3’47 „
Total 222,410
Then small quantities of purchased mattes, products
from other works, etc., are turned into the furnaces
with the copper ore, bringing the total up to 102,575
tons. To treat that quantity of ore the following had to
to be fed into the furnaces
Ore and matte .. .. 102,575 tons
Limestone 64,725 ~
Ironstone 20,702 „
Coke 17.U6 „
Total .. 195,118 tons
So it can be figured out that it took 17,116 tons of coke to
smelt 178,002 tons of ore and flux, reckoning the small
quantity of purchased matte as ore. The matte was
mostly from the Great Fitzroy. The values in the gold
ores, both oxidised and sulphide, are declining, as men-
tioned before ; but by careful selection the copper ore
shows higher gold contents for the past six months than
it did previously. In fact, the “copper" ore is now
worth more than twice as much for gold as the oxidised
“ gold ” ore.
As far as work has gone at the Tommy
Burns (N.Q.)it looks as though the people who rushed
into that show on the strength of the surface richness,
and in defiance of all N.Q. tin experience, are going to be
badly disappointed. “ After sinking 7ft. further,” says
the last official report, “the ore got gradually poorer,
until the present bottom is only worth about 1 per cent.
I commenced driving in both ends of the shaft. The
southern drive is in 7ft., and the northern drive 6ft,
both in lode matter, but no improvement in quality yet.”
As The Bulletin remarked when the show was floated,
the motto of the promoters of the Tommy Burns was—
“ Never punch a good face.” Those promoters knew
North Queensland tin outcrops. And if the man that the
show was named after had hit Johnson in the stomach
instead of punching at his face he might have done better
than he did.
* * • *
Rockhampton (Q.) has a very kindly feeling for
the Great Fitzroy Copper Mine ; it is like the rich uncle
who comes down at Christmas on a visit. Already it has
paid away £47,000 for stores and wages, and altogether,
since the present management took a hand, something
like £lOO,OOO has been spent on the mine. The gross
value of copper, silver and gold produced amounts to
£65,000. The ore is low-grade ; but, with cheap fluxes,
it can be smelted at low cost. The prospects at the 300 ft.
level are better than when the crosscut first reached the
ore, and late assays have given between 4 and 5 per cent,
copper. The first assays only gave 2 per cent., with
ldwt. gold. That much gold would mean about £lO
additional value to a ton of copper, less refining costs,
which is a strong point in Fitzroy’s favor. Its trouble is
over-capitalisation. , # ,
There is a labor trouble up in North Queens-
land also. It began at Stannary Hills, where a wage-
reduction was wanted, along with a reversion to the old
48-hours-a-week system. (In North Queensland 44 hours
has been the rule, that practice having originally been
adopted at Charters Towers.) The engine-drivers are out
in sympathy with the miners, and that is troubling the
owners, as most of these mines are liable to be flooded.
There is likewise some trouble on the Burrum (Q.) coal-
field ; there it is a matter of cavilling. The men have the
right to cavil for mates, but not for places.
* * » *
It was elicited in the recent Muirhead insol-
vency, in Adelaide, that during the Federal Bank liquida-
tion, there was paid in costs to this one solicitor what the
Commissioner of Insolvency calls the “quite unusual and
astounding amount ” of £20,824.
“X P.D.”: The main part of the copper
country in the Herberton district (Q.), including the New
Anniversary mine, has been bought by the Queensland
Copper Co. The new co. formed to work the properties
is to be capitalised at £50,000. The principal mine was
opened up over 20 years ago, but various attempts mad o
since to make a big thing of it were mostly failures till,
in 1906, one Meredith took a hand, and the show boomed
till the slump in copper came. Now Herberton speaks
confidently of the erection of a smelter.
» * * *
The Chillagoe Co.’s London people cabled out a
long digest of the Times man’s opinion of the mine and
railway, which was, on the whole, pretty favorable. Now,
whatare the odds that Hampden, Elliott, and theOloncurry
people will cable out what the same man thinks of those
mines ? Also, what he thinks of the Queensland Govern-
ment’s bargain with regard to the building of the Elliott-
Hampden tramway? , . *
Reports from headquarters announce the com-
pletion of the agreement for the construction of the Mt.
Elliott tramwav (Q.). The co. is prepared to deposit
forthwith £93,910, being half the estimated cost of the
line. At that rate, the estimate is a bit under the original
figure—£2oo,ooo. The Government will be very lucky
indeed if it can do the work for even the £200,000. In
about 18 months the line should be through; the
Queensland Government is ready to get ahead from both
ends, and it has some 31 miles of rails in stock. It is to
be hoped that the line will justify its construction.
Meantime the reported contract with Abdul Wade, of the
camels, for transport of coke and metal is, if true, surely
a remarkable proceeding for a co. which is understood to
have almost unlimited capital behind it, and with railway
communication in sight.
With the last dividend of the Tewkesbury Amal-
gamated, Bright (Vic.), original shareholders get back the
final farthing of the money they put into the shows
which have now been consolidated ; so that they stand
on velvet and hold their shares for nothing. It's many a
day since small people got so good a rise as Bright has
given them at such little risk. Two and a half years ago
a man put £9OOO into the dredging business. It was cut
up wisely by one who knew his way round. The investor
has just got his money back, and his shares are worth
£22,000, and are yielding £4OOO a year. #
Long Tunnel, Wftlballa (Vic.), slipped by its
January dividend very quietly. This is not quite as it
should be, for a lot of women and men not of the fat type
look to the Tunnel dividend for the extra pipe or bit of
frill that go to make life happy. So why didn’t the Board
face the music, announce that the pace had been too fast,
or that the stone wasn’t rich enough, or anything else
that had to be said ? Ostrich ways of running give Wal-
halla the handle, and promptly it pumps smelly water on
the head of a tco-too respectable body of directors.
* * • *
A telegram from Launceston promises a ton of
woe. The section held by the Grown Lvell is said to
have been forfeited, and acquired by F. G. Duff. Grown
Lvell is almost the last of the flock once tended by Grotty
and J. P. Lonergan. It lies next door to the North
Lyell, and there always has been a suspicion that the
North Lyell shoot might pass into it. Exploration.hasn t,
however, proved anything more than low-grade silicious
material, so that the lease has to-day about the same
value as the Lyell Blocks. That too was an F. G.
Duff possession, as was the Peaks and half a score
other outsiders. In these latter days the Cohen
element has superseded the Celtic at the Grown,
and people surmise that the Colemans, of London, have a
finger in the Crown pie as they also have in the Ex-
tended. There is ihore hair-raising excitement over this
bit of news in the old North Lyell group than there would
be over the saving of ninety-and nine poor sinners. Now
everybody wants to know whether Duff was on his own,
or if he has old friends at his back. Given the latter, the
course which the lease will take may not be hard to trace.
• * « *
As mentioned recently, a S’African black-labor
explosives factory is going to pour mine explosives into
Australia this year, having made a big contract with the
Broken Hill and other mine-owners. As this business had
hitherto been mostly in the hands of Nobel’s, the people
who are pushing the S’African black-labor stuff circulated
the varn —which they put before the Minister of Customs
—that Nobel’s were black-labor people coo ; and the Argus
printed a comparison showing the amount of black labor
employed respectively at the De Beer’s factory (from which
the Australian supplies are to come) and Nobel’s S’African
factory. As The Bulletin reported (31/12/’08), this
had nothing to do with the case, since the Nobel factory in
S’Africa never supplied Australia, so it wasn’t a question
merely of displacing one lot of black-labor goods with
another lot of ditto, but it was a question of putting
white-workmen’s goods out of the market. Now the
Australian representative of Nobel’s Explosives Co., Ltd.,
Glasgow, writes to say that there isn’t any such thing as
a Nobel factory in S’Africa: “ The factory referred to, no
doubt, is the Modderfontein factory of the British South
African Explosives Co., which is neither owned nor con-
trolled by Nobel’s, nor have explosives from that or any
other S’African factory been used in Australia up to the
present time. The only factories owned by my co. are in
Great Britain, and no colored labor is employed in the
manufacture of our explosives.” From which it is clear
that somebody has been pulling the Australian Minister
of Customs’ leg badly.
* • * *
Most Maoriland stocks did a little sagging in
1908, the result of the idea that it won’t be quite as easy
to keep on borrowing money and sustaining the fictitious
prosperity as some people had thought. National Bank
•t N.Z. shares, for instance, have been sliding back like
this 1905, £5 175.; 1906, £5 11s.; 1907, £5 7s. 6d. ; 1908,
£5 3s. 6d. Bank of N. Zealand shares, £9 15s. twelve
months ago, were quoted at the end of 1908 at £810s.; and
N.Z. Insurance shares fell back from £4 to £3 15s. Gas
shares kept fairly steady; but where there was much
municipal activity they fell away—Wellington Co. s for
instance, from £lB 15s. to £l6 12s. 6d. Westport Coal
shares lost just £l, and are now quoted at £6 17s. ea.
Practically all the building society and .mortgage co.
shares are limper J also those of all the meat-preser\ ing
and most of the wool-manufacturing cos.
* * * *
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Leinpriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* + * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
xinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balanoes,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
. * • *
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavy grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience. of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work in hand. These
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4sft. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.* „ I 1
“ Fibro-Oement ” Asbestos Roofing Slates and
Sheets for lining and walling, are light, strong, durable,
cheap and easily fixed, as well as heat-resisting, ant and
acid proof. Largely adopted where comfort, appearance
and durability are considered. Particulars from James
Hardie and Co., Sydney or Melbourne.* [2
«r * » •
The Finance Chronicle, London, writes re-
garding the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, under date Ist August, 19071 n other
words, good management has had much to do with the
result, and we are glad to note the fact at a time when
the reins have fallen into new hands.”*
« * * *
Wherever iron of superior quality and excep-
tional tensile strength is required engineers specify the
famous best Yorkshire “ Farnley ” Iron. This iron is
made from refined pig iron, is puddled into practically
pure wrought iron, hammered and piled before rolling.
Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, have been appointed sole agents for the I arnley
Iron Co., Ltd., Leeds, and hold representative stocks of
“Farnley” bars at their warehouses in Sydney and
, * *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherlands
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.* #
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
bv a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron 'founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * •
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS—Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
• * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
• • ■* *
That Jeffrey Labor Saving Machinery has
taken a great hold in Australia is well shown in a
bulletin just issued by Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7
Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne,
which illustrates a number of complete equipments in-
stalled by them in various parts of the Commonwealth,
comprising belt and cable conveyors, picking tables,
woolbale elevators, etc. The pictures are excellently
shown of plants in actual work in mines, breweries, wool
stores, sugar mills, and so on ; and give a comprehensive
idea of the many industries in which machinery of this
kind can be employed for handling goods in large
quantities. Gibson, Battle will be pleased to send a cop}'
of this pamphlet to anyone interested in this class of
machinery.*


EDUCATION BY POST,
-The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date-
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
MR* T. C. ALLEN, Registered Patent Attorney and
1,1 Consulting Mechanical Engineer, begs to notify his
many clients and friends that he has dissolved partner-
ship with Mr. Arthur Griffith (late Griffith and Allen) and
will continue to practise in his own name at Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Buildings, corner of King and
Pitt Streets, Sydney.
“Post Your Order
Direct
to
Us!
It does not matter where you live—thousands of miles away,
perhaps—yet you can obtain our Catalogue, which enables you to
secure the Best of Clothes, etc., at the most reasonable prices.
Smart Sac Suits, to your order, from 50/- upwards. Ready-to'-
Wear Clothing for tropical or cold climates, Boots and Shoes,
Shirts to order and Ready-for-wear, Pyjamas, Dressing Gowns, Hats’
Caps, Collars, Ties, Umbrellas, Leather Goods of all kinds, Uni-
forms, Lauies’ Tailor-made Costumes. Send a post card for Catalogue.
Now! Absolute satisfaction is guaranteed or money refunded!
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Itan ” : What game is this that Nature
is playing in Eastern Australia with the swamps
and low-lying lands? From Nowra (N.S.W.) to
Cooktown (N.Q.) there are undoubted evidences
that the flat lands are drying up. Drainage and
the clearing away of scrub may have had a hand
in the business, but there seems to be some other
force at work. I know the swamps of the north
coast of N.S. Wales best, but have a nodding
acquaintance with much greater tracts both
north and south. Big areas which were once
never known to be dry are now never known
to be wet except for a few days after
heavy rains. Once they were the resort of
many kinds of aquatic birds; now the aquatic
birds have no truck with them. Some men
say that the artesian bores have drained off the
Mother o’ Ducks lagoon at Guyra, but the bores
could not well have this effect on the great
swamps of the coast.
HIDDEN TREASURE.
TRAVELLING SHEPHERD (with enthusiasm): “Ah,
friend! How glorious to see man quenching
his thirst with Nature’s own drink.”
BILL OUTBACK: “ That’s right, mate; but’ow did
YOU know (hie) that I carried (hie) beer in
me water-bag?”
Jimmie Pannikin ” : Once I nearly
murdered a man on the Lower Darling, and this
is how it happened. I was waiting for the ram-
shackle shanghai to be fixed up, when Joe Den-
nison (now dead) noticed that my boots were very
He said, “Yer mean ta tell me that
y am t ad ya boots polished all the time ya bin at
the Darlm Metrerpole ? ” I said, “ The landlord
never has time to clean boots, and my supply of
gohanna polish ran out at Port Pooncarie.” Joe
said. You foller me and I’ll ’av ya fixed dup in
no tune. We met the busy landlord. He was
always doing something—generally smoking or
leaning against a post. Said Joe, “Here, you
lazy loafer, go an’ git th’ gentleman’s boots
polished. “Foller me!” remarked the un-
abashed landlord. Joe and I followed him
through the bar, out to the back. The landlord’s
wife was at work skinning and cleaning a goat
r 6 j l us *' killed. She used to cut the wood,
feed the horses, kill and dress all venison, and also
run the house. The landlord said, “’Ere, Liz,
u Sa^ s t * le & ent l e man must tav ’is boots
polished, so look slippy and do ’em. I’ll go
and mind th bar ! ” I wanted to drown the land-
lord; but Joe would not let me. “Liz is terrible
fond of ’er ’usband, so let him be.” I let him be.
* * * *
“ The Dodger ” : Touching this rain-sign
controversy which I see raging just now. I have
encountered a sign which “Abo.” writers have not
previously mentioned, and would like to give it
publicity. I desire—having a sensitive horror of
being esteemed a liar—to have it clearly under-
stood that I confine the sign to the only parts
where I have seen it—that is, throughout the
lg n ® grey leagues nor’-west of Port Augusta
(S.A.). I was jackerooing there in 1900-01-02.
The drought was carrying on an extensive and
profit-ruining butchering business all over those
regions at the time. When things were at their
very worst, webs of silk resembling small bags
began to appear on all the low bush growth.
At the end of a month the whole of the scrub
country looked like a sea of silk. As they swung
on the bushes they resembled nothing so much as
myriads of trousers’ pockets full of wind. Inside
they held a coarse substance having the appear-
ance of white sawdust. In about two months’
time the sawdust substance was transformed into
many millions of small, pale grubs. Towards the
end of the third month the storm-clouds blew over
us and burst. When the grass had sprouted
the grubs came forth from their silken homes, and
went over the land in thousands. Then they dis-
appeared, and were replaced by moths of every
possible color. A month or so saw these pass
away, too, and then came the grasshoppers. So
thick were they in places that horses refused to
face the swarms when on the wing. They dis-
appeared in their turn, and a run of good seasons
followed. The silk bags still hang on the scrub,
stained and wind-blown, suggesting relics of
white flags flown by a drouth whose forces had
decided to surrender. I would like to know what
insects spun those silken banners. They are fine
weather prophets whoever they are.
“Phiz”: Have you ever seen a Maori-
land bush road in winter time? I have, and
what’s more, have lived with one between me and
civilisation. It is one of those things which affect
a strong man just as a glass of water would if
offered to a confirmed soaker ! I have seen roads
which are reputed to conceal in their bosoms
whole barrels of lost and sunken beer. I have
driven sheep through paddocks, drawing staples
on the way, because the road was a quagmire.
On one occasion, where the “making” of the
road had left a small ledge near the fence, I drove a
mob of sheep along But the ledge was
broken in one place,, awd the liquid mud reached
under the fence. W»at was the leader to do ?
Did that sheep stop ? »'.No; he took a header and
landed in the mud. His mates followed, and
swarmed across his back. That sheep was a
martyr to mud, and his monument was mud.
But his memory is revered as a pioneer on that
road. You will realise what mud means if you
read this extract from a letter sent by a settler at
Whangamomona to the Minister of Lands (he
was asking that something be done to his road): —
“ My little girl died last week. I couldn’t get a
doctor, and I couldn’t get her to the cemetery, so
I buried her in the clearing near by ! You can’t
imagine how bad the road is! ”
A QUESTION OF STAKE.
“ Well! What would you lake to go through what Burns did?”
“ Chloroform!”
“The Intruder”: With reference to
“ Fitzwilliam ” on the subject of the shark as a
connoisseur (B. 2G/11/’08), I should like to make a
few remarks on that subject, and also on the
matter of a remarkable lottery. The shark, it
appears, unlike Spruce Myth, prefers the white
man, and rarely misses an opportunity of dining
from the unwary bather ; but, for all that, some
of him are curious enough to sample new 'lshes,
and then it is a cold day for anything i.c ir at
hand. Two instances of shark-bite on natives
have been treated at Torres Straits Hospital
within the last two months. Case one : A native
whilst fishing had his left hand bitten off. He
recovered. Case two : Is at present in hospital,
with a decent-sized lump bitten out of his thigh,
but is doing well. The natives stand the shock
well, and I fancy that white men would have died
under similar conditions. The native has little
fear of the shark, and, in every case that I have
heard of, the victim has had a fish in his hand.
The Torres Straits native is fond of crayfish, and
catches them by hand, diving
into the holes in the reefs for
them. Gentleman One of
the Sea is also partial to
crayfish, and, if he is
handy, he grabs both fish
and hand. The only in-
stances on record in Torres
Straits of men in diving-
dresses being attacked by
sharks occurred when they,
also, had been foolish
enough to catch a crayfish.
In the above two instances,
“ Ficzwilliam ” is proved
quite wrong in his statement
that “it is fatal for a black-
fellow to be tasted by a
shark.” Great excitement was
caused on Thursday Island,
about three months back, by
the foolishness of a Chinaman who had
come ashore from the s.s. Taiyuan to visit
some friends and smoke a convivial pipe
of opium. The opium apparently went to his
head, because in walking home he missed the
gangway and dropped into the shark’s dining-
room. Thereupon arose from the deep a yell and
a swirling and splashing of water. Lifebuoys
were thrown without any result. Next day, local
Chows offered a reward of £2 for the recovery of
deceased’s head to be sent to China for burial. It
was also stated that the shark’s supper wore a belt
containing 200 sovereigns. Fishermen, profes-
sional and amateur, sallied forth in large num-
bers, armed with all sorts of lines and hooks, and
took tickets in this latest type of Chinese lottery.
Four snarks were landed. One contained some
Chinese leg, another a shoulder of Chow, another
a brother shark’s head; but nary a sign of a
Chow’s head, and not a sovereign was recovered.
So, as in most Chinese lotteries, only blanks were
drawn. I suspect the shark who dined on the
sovereigns has, in common with all other capital-
ists, left the country since the advent of a Labor
Ministry in the Australian Parliament.
“Milky White ” : lie speed of bush fires
in forest country. During a north-easterly gale
at Christmas a blaze that started back of Bel-
grave (Vic.) raced through nearly three miles of
green bush in less than two hours. In places
burning leaves, wind-driven, “jumped” the fire
over clearings 100yds. or more wide. .Sometimes
nesting birds, delaying too long, were unable to
escape, and outside the track of the trouble the
writer found many birds with wings too much
singed for flight. The high wind v’as not the only
agent either. The Lipscombs
of Glen Harrow, making strenuous efforts to keep
the conflagration outof their property, saw a blazing
wallaby burst from the burning scrub and dash
frantically across a metalled road into their
orchard. It laid a trail of fire along the creek as
it made for a deep hole. They beat out the fire,
and afterwards saw the wallaby blackened,
dripping wet and almost
blind, groping its way into
the hills.
HE WASN’T A VEGETARIAN.
DROVER: “ What’s the grass like back along the
road?”
BILL FROM THE CITY: “ How the blazes do I
know? Do you think lam a dashed cow.?”
“Poleaxe ” : Talking about queer walks.
Know an old tin-miner up in the Glen Innes
district (N.S.W.) who works solidly for a month
at a stretch. Every full moon the old chap walks
in to Glen Innes, 27 miles distant. He starts off
about sundown and walks through the night,
reaching the town about 6 a.m. He has then
2s. 6d. worth of beer, which he orders at once in
separate glasses on a tray. One after the other,
he submerges the lot, and then, his task com-
pleted, he begins his homeward journey. He
pauses neither for woman, further wine, nor any
allurements of the city, but plugs along, and, his
“monthly” over, arrives at his humpy by mid-
night. This excursion has never varied for six
years, and won’t till the tin runs out, the moon
forgets to rise, or old Mac hands in his bucket.
the thin end op idolatry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rw J?: dy miss i° nar y recently left Croydon, England for
Qua Iboe, on the West Coast of Africa, taking with her a
large assortment of dolls to give to native <Hrl«
that V the h in7 e T^ th? ff miBSionaries alread y there decided
cause the sho " ld n °t be distributed, “ be-
exalt the dolls W °^ shlp would in all probability
SJStSSS- " ld *'" So
A lady from the ancient town
Of Croydon had a call to go
And save the naked heathen, down
In far, benighted Qua Iboe.
She thought upon the means of grace
On which to base her mission new,
And put aside all commonplace
Designs, however good and true.
“ The gentle savage soul to reach,”
Said she, “ I must have something fresh,
By novel means to tame and teach
The spirit weak through willing flesh.
‘I will not give them chocolate
Nor fill them up with ginger-bread ;
I never will their pride inflate
With flannel waistcoats, bright and red.
“In gilt and glamor there may lurk
Temptations fatal to their peace j
I must take up the noble work
Where ginger-bread and waistcoats cease.
* h take them dolls, that they may know
The ways of sweet simplicity ;
Dear, modest dolls with bib and bow,
And calico and dimity.”
And so to purchase dolls galore
To Lowther’s gay Arcade she went,
And shipped chem to that heathen shore,
And followed, full of high intent.
But, lo ! the word had gone abroad,
And Qua Iboe received a shock ;
Its saints proclaimed the things abhorred,
Unfitting for their gentle flock.
Then met the elders wise and good,
And forth there went a stern decree
That simple dolls of wax and wood
Were symbols of idolatry.
So they agreed the dame to chide
With this bewildering reproof—
“ Your dollies’ booties cannot hide
The outline of the cloven hoof 1
“ Go ! take the sinful things away !
They but defile this guileless shore.
Go, erring sister, watch and pray—
Go, sister, go, and sin no more ! ”
N.S.W.
WAIF.
By “Harry”:—
Old Bone 3 and the Hall brothers had runs adjoining 1
and their politics differed, and they were mustering.
Dave Regan was drifting through the Commonwealth
on his spidery horse, and pouring adulterated oil on the
placid waters of the Bush, whenever he got a chance, to
“ kill time ’’—for he lived on horseback. He sighted Old
Bones in the scrub first, and hulloed to him.
“ ’Elio, Dave,” said Bones.
They did a bit of conversational duty to Bush things,
seeing to their pipes the while, and then Dave remarked
casually, as he got his leg down off the pommel :
“ Frank Hall says you’re a , Mr. Bones.”
. “Oh ! does he?” said Bones. “You tell Frank Hall
I’ll kick him.” (Place for proposed application of kick
specified and qualified.)
Later on in the day Dave came across the Halls.
“ Say, Frank,” said Dave, “ Old Bones sez he’s goin’ to
kick yer.”
“ •x x x!— ill all right Dave, tell the
he’ll'get all the kick he’s lookin’ for.”
About sundown the two parties, the Boneses and the
Halls, came together at the same waterhole on the bound-
ary, where each, unknown to the other, had proposed to
camp. As soon as they stripped off the saddles and let
the horses go, Frank Hall walked round to Bones’ side of
the waterhole, and faced Old Bones.
“Good-day, Mr. Bones,” he said, with elaborate polite-
ness.
“Good-day,” snorted Old Bones, with politeness at
all.
“ Dave Regan sez yer going to kick me,” said Hall.
“Well?” said Bones.
“ Well, do it! ” said Frank Hall, and he turned his back
deliberately on Old Bones and stood squarely and waited.
It was the shortest wait on record, they swore. Bones
was a tall man and he wore a heavy pair of home-mended
ironclads of a size unknown. And he kicked with great
promptness, energy and precision.
They held Frank Hall until his brains had settled down,
and then the two men took off their shirts. I don’t know
exactly how the fight was ending—some say that Frank
Hall was getting the best of it, and some Old Harry Bones
—but the younger men pulled them apart before the
battle was over, when they thought it had gone far
enough amongst neighbors. Next morning, after a wash,
a good breakfast, and a general saddling and packing up
Old Bones and Frank Hall were brought together, and’
after explanations, they shook hands arid parted : ’
“ Good-day, Harry.”
“ Good-day, Frank.”
And Dave Regan still is drifting—still is drifting-
through the scrubs of the Commonwealth on his long,
spidery, springy bay mare, and dropping, whenever he
gets a chance, bitter oil upon the untroubled waters of
the Bush. And some casual day he’ll get an unexpected
kick on a place he’ll rub afterwards with Blanky’s embro-
cation.
The Bush is nothing if not casual.


THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. ...
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“ Influenza about! v did you say ?
Take four Pills Laxo-Tonic each day—
Two at noon, two at night,
You will soon be all right,
And from office need not stop away.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, lOJd. and Is. 6d.*
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS
are usually only
BOUGHT ONCE, BUT
WORN FOR A LIFETIME.
Refinement, Elegance, Superiority can
be expressed very palpably in a ring
Selected Diamonds,
£l5.
Diamonds and Sapphire,
£lO 10s.
2 Diamonds and Sapphire,
£l5.
Diamonds and Ruby, £25.
2 Diamonds and 1 Golden
Sapphire, £l4.
and its characteristics. See our ring productions in Fine Go wi a inu
Settings, with special Blue-White Jager Diamonds. They are a reve a ion
perfection. The prices, too, are low, as we are the actual manufacturers.
Plain Figures
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
“ Moorabinda ” : The coast about Cham-
pion Bay (W.A.) is infested with sharks. Each
shark is invariably accompanied by two pilot tish.
Why two ? It is a curious question, and puzzling.
Conversing with an ichthyologist on this point, I
was surprised to hear him cast some doubt on the
fact. His view (not gleaned from personal obser-
vation, by-the-bye) was that there isoftener one than
two pilots with the shark, and sometimes there are
a number.. The shark is, as a fact, sometimes seen
unaccompanied by pilots, but when the latter do
accompany it, the number is always two ; and
this fact is so well known that the aboriginal
draftsmen invariably depict this number in their
representations of the shark —an object which
they are very fond of painting on the rocks of the
coasts. While I was off one of the islands, noted
on the chart as Rat Island, a shark glode slowly
under the boat. The appearance of all fish in the
depths of the sea is deceptive to the eye, but this
shark was remarked by all the fishermen
as being enormous. It was accompanied
by the usual pair of pilots—one swim-
ming close to the snout, the other near
the right side. Neither book, nor naturalist that
I have yet met with has given a satisfactory ex-
planation of the whyness of the pilot. On the
west coast of Australia I never saw a shark with-
out its attendant scouts—if scouts they are. They
seem to guide or warn the shark in some way, but
I could never discover proof that they really do
so. When the sharks are seen without the pilots
the latter are probably lurking somewhere near at
hand. The pilots never go in shoals, large or
small, in Australian waters. Four or five is the
greatest number ever seen together; but when
many sharks are assembled in one spot, eacli
seems to be accompanied by its pair of at-
tendants. This refers to the common blutf and
white sharks only ; the basking-shark and smaller
sharks have no pilots. It is certain that some
mutual benefit follows the association of creatures
so incongruous in general habits and organisation,
otherwise the pilot-fish would not be safe in the
other fellow’s company.
HER TROUBLES!
We must be going to move, Sis; I broke a
winder to-day, and mother never roused
on me.”
Now is the time to take a holiday, get out
into the country, on the mountains and visit the
sea-shore, but do not forget to take a bottle' of
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy along with you. It is almost certain to
be needed and cannot be obtained on railroads or
steamships. It is too much of a risk for anyone to
leave home on a journey without it.*
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Recently attended
a stick-dodgers’ darnce after the great burn-off at
Badjingobar. I was specially invited ; all others
in attendance were stick-dodgers and their rela-
tives. Every man had splinters in his fingers or
feet, or bark in his hair, or ashes in his eyes.
They pulled and tugged and tossed and threw the
women and girls about as if they werp lumps of
wood. One of them told me that she “’ateda
man to ’old’ersif she wuz a cup er tea ; she liked
to be slung round ’ard an’ lively.” So she was.
ON THE FLAT.
JOCULAR PUNTER (to hot-pie vendor, referring to injured steeplechaser which has just, been
shot): “There yer are, mate, there's a charnee ter improve the breed of yer pies.
The tale of “ Cross-Nibs ”
I crashed into one of my acquaintances on Boxing
Nio-ht in Pitt-street. His situation in the cosmic scheme
is °to drive a cart, and therefrom to supply various
families with defunct bullock and other animal matter.
On glimpsing me he suggested the imbibition of fluid. 1
displayed my best footwork in accepting the invitation.
After the flight of a few pots, his visage split in the
vicinity of the noise department, and spilt the ensuing
i e d Jn & p ac fc e t uv quids over this biff-’n’-
bang bother. Ev’ry bloke I know pressed ’is pile on
Tommy. It wuz corpse-easy t’ gather in baked brass
over ut th’ abbataws. Strike me seldom, I wuz makin
bloomers with th’ customers’ feeds uv flesh all th parst
week thinkin’ uv th’ good thing I !ad me ooks in. In
'appy truth blew across t’ me this way. I dreamt 1 wuz
doin’ th’ round with th’ ole box on wheels loaded up with
small-goods. On a dish inside wuz a couple uv dozen
black ’n’ white puddin’. Well, ev’ry time I dropped fr m
th’ cart t' ’aul out ’n order, split me if th whites wuzn t
scattered about th’ premises ’n th’ blacks lyin hack on
th’crock’ry. Now when y’r find room in yr block fr
thet dream-pickchure three nights runnin’ there s sum-
thin’in it—eh—what? Then there wuz th’ screech uv
th' slog-’ums in Sam’s-land paintin’ up th’ dark velvet to
git y’r wise. When th’ boss uv th’ clobbered knuckle
dripped out chat about this bein’ th’ larst bit uv graft in-
side a rope fence before ’e started forcin’ feathers n
drove ’is ’ooks inter fowl-feed thet put th’ mishalls t th
k'lV’Aif a m o, while I ’ide me smile with froth ! I sup-
pose y’r think I’m blowin’ a joy-screech f’r the soot-
stained smacker. No, th’ thinkin’ time f’r lm larsts till
th* bets ’r’ gilded. Bold Bill iz wordin’ it wide thet is
ole cure f’r insomnia iz come back to its former residence,
so what’s wrong in lettin’ ’im paste it under Jacko s grin .
To th’ shrewd-suckers ’is charnce wears crape ; but y r
never know till th’ choppin’ iz over ’ow th’ operation
weighs out. My oath, I’d bust across a mile uv oyster-
shells barefooted t’ see Willie disperse th’ black cloud.
It’s right enough f’r us blokes t’ sit on th’ kerbstone n
puff din through our dials, but that does nuthin more
th’n let th’ crowd know we’re still livin’. Old son, th
result uv th’ punchastrophe t’ day gives me th office t
nit away ’n’ ponder. Blime, a couple uv hours ago I
bumped ’alf-a-dozen Pats screwin’ ut a poster uv th pugs
’n’ chatterin’ iz gay iz a cage full of love birds. I reckon
it’s up to us t’ tighten in our tripes ’n’ not git gazin for
couches durin’ th’ time limit. It’s no tired man s job
lteepin’ th’ gum-tree map clean. Th’ nastiest colors in th
paint-box are brown, black ’n’ yaller, V when they are
slapped over our landscape, well just rattle me t
Kook wood. . , . „
“ Yes, I c’n keep another down. A eavyweight pot uv
colonial, Miss. ’Ere’s a go.”
» . * »
“ Cict ” : Permit me to liberate, with due
precision and a certain amount of vociferousness,
a wail, wailed in the interests of that man out
back who is of the wool-elevating genus. Tis
with much deliberation, and a fair extent of
exactness, that he weigheth his product as he bags
it, bale by bale, making the total avoirdupois
thereof to climb, per steel-yard, etc., to precisely
5 tons llcwt. 3qr., for which heaviness he payeth
his carrier at a scale theretofore discussed, and
severally agreed upon. Upon its arrival at the
railway station, the Johnsing weight miscalcula-
tor thereat proclaims its right to levy on just 5 tons
12cwt. and 2qr., and the fleece-raiser parts up
unjoyfully, and yet pleased withal, as he grasps
the fact that his produce is more bulky than lie
surmised at the shearing shed. Moreover the
oxen-conductor, who has piloted the stun, is also
grateful to the implement, which has so unblush-
ingly swollen his earnings, and he impounds his
cheque with a greater chuckle than he had anti-
cipated emitting. In course of time, or there-
abouts, the jumbuck proprietor is informed, in no
undecided English, that his crop, as received by
his city brokers, tips their beam at a ponderosity
of 5 tons and llcwt., and the cocky sigheth heavily
as he accepts the inevitable, the inutility of
appealing against which he has learned through
the medium of delayed sales, falling prices, and
unfavorable classification. And thus is it that tne
country’s backbone is spurred on to continue
doing and daring upon the land.
“Don Q.” : Yerily, verily the Bush bung
is a man of many occupations. For one with the
most, I nominate Pushabout, of Sheriff’s Crossing.
He is (1) publican, (2) post and telegraph master,
(3) storekeeper, (4) butcher, (5) baker, (6) selector,
(7) livery and bait stables proprietor, (8) member
of the local school board and race club, (9) coach
agent; and (10) undertaker. If any “Abo.”
reader can find a publican to beat this record
well, we will get Push a few more odd jobs.
“Billy T.” : I give this as a true instance
of what may happen to a man when married. The
new family had only just shifted into No. 6, and
the usual interest in new-comers manifested itself
in the immediate neighborhood. On the third
night agonising screams broke from No. 6, and a
fearful joy seized upon the local inhabitants.
They gathered in the street before and the lane
behind, and on the fences adjoining, and listened
to the shocking evidences of a vigorous family
feud, the crash of crockery, the dull thud and the
shriek. That is how it appealed to the neigh-
bors, and eventually, when a woman’s voice rose
high above the din, calling “Murder!” five
brave men determined to invade the premises
and avert further bloodshed. They charged
the back door, and broke into the kitchen
of No. 6, and a strange sight met their
gaze. In the corner near the pot shelf stood a
big, dishevelled woman, with her hair flying free,
howling at the top of her voice, and punctuating
her howls by dashing crockery on the floor. At
the fireplace sat a perfectly calm man, and on his
lap was a long-coated baby, sleeping peacefully.
The man smiled a wan smile at the intruders, and
started to fill the baby’s bottle from a small pan.
The woman uttered a blood-curdling howl and
dropped & tureen, and the deputation, of which X
was one, backed out with precipitation, and wisely
retired.
* * * * .
‘ ‘ Boswell ” on imported plagues and
pests: —
In the days of Captain Cook, Australia, peopled by an
inoffensive black race, was a virgin land almost entirely
free from pests—feathered, four-footed, or vegetable.
But alas ! the change. Importations of noxious weeds,
animals and birds from the much-vaunted “Old Country
and America have reduced the new country in places to
such depths of despair and disrepair that thousands of
square miles have been abandoned and left to the tender
mercies of the invader. Every patriotic Australian should
protest against his country being overrun and its fair
surface disfigured and blighted by the rubbish which
daily arrives from oversea. Only last week I saw in one
wheatfield near Manilla (N.S.W.) the following choice list,
not one of which is indigenous: prickly pear, Mexican
poppy, saucy Jack, cobbler’s pegs, Scotch thistle, white
thistle, black thistle, Bathurst burr, wild clove, fat hen,
and cactus lily—an imported eleven, so to speak, which
has put down its concrete wicket, and defies all the
farmers’ bowling to shift it. Many acres of crop have been
abandoned altogether, and a great deal more yielded
only a tithe of its true value were the land clean. In
other districts the “ sweet” briar (as our English friends
call it) has taken possession of the richest alluvial flats.
Those who try to combat it there give it a much less
euphemistic title than the Cold Country bestows. The
blackberry has also, on the N.S.W. south coast and other
districts, arrived at that stage when it is much more
cursed than blessed. Turning from the vegetable to the
animal kingdom, what of the stinking fox, the burrowing
bunny, the nimble hare, the sparrow, starling, and
several others ? Are not their acts written indelibly on
the depreciated bank accounts of the pastoralist, the
agriculturist, and the viticulturist. Let us add to our
Litany, and repeat it from the heart and not from the
lips : “ From all imported pests and plagues, of any kind
whatsoever, good Lord deliver us.”
THE LARGE AUSTRALIANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You meet them on the Lawler’s track,
And on the road to Cue ;
Or you may see them coming back
Prom Far-Out Yabberoo.
You’ll find them on the Wongan Hills,
And on the Hampton Plain ;
And down among the timber mills
You’ll see them once again.
The}’ cut the track, and pioneer
The State coach through the scrub.
They sink the wells, and drink the beer
At every wayside pub.
They build the courthouse or the school,
They reconstruct the earth,
And spend the proceeds, as a rule,
In she-bangs down at Perth.
They ride, or drive, or pad the hoof,
As circumstances fit.
And on the bumpy coach’s roof
Occasionally sit.
And sometimes (much to our regret)
They come not home to bunk,
Because, somehow, they chanced to get
Most gloriously drunk.
But on the track, or in the camp,
In cutting, mine, or mill,
In coach, or train, or on the tramp,
They’re hefty patriots still!
And may I be at the Grand Review
When Pair Australia scans
Its desert-land contingent true,
THE LARGE AUSTRALIANS !
N.S.W.
TOM BRASLEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Vendetta : The Johnson-Burns massacre is
“off” Les Gee: A fine specimen ot doggerel
R. A.W. : No; it has no meric R.D. : You are a funny
correspondent, but your verses are no good.. ..S.L*:
“ Kit ” leans too much to melodrama, and is a bit crude
in execution Con Drew: Before you attempt to
criticise your critics you should learn to spell. “
for instance, is not orthodox. Also “Poor’ doesn t
rhyme with “ raw.” Also—many other things... .G.G.E. ;
You are like the heathen—you have “imagined a vain
thing.” R.N.H. : Very nearly scored Parvenu:
Verse about a man of skin and bone who
was pursued by dingoes, etc., is of no earthly
value. Considering suggestion Kyloe: Hesitated
a while about “ Intruder,” then it went the
way of all flesh Borax: Perfectly hopeless....
Alan A.: “Bush Lads” has all the ponderousness of a
dinosaur’s hind foot. It is our aim to print nothing that
weighs more than the rear of a present-day elephant....
GMR: R.I.P. You shall be protected.... Alifex: You
discuss the “ intellectual girl ” (of whom we are aweary)
in the prose of an ariti-stoush letter writer ...G.D..
“ Witching Eyes” was subjected to the ordeal by fire, and
proved to be flagitious J.P.: All pretty good, but the
close season for reversoletting began some weeks ag0....
A Bayliss: “ A Husband's Lecture ” is moral verse of the
pawkv order (which is a breed of verse we dislike); a,nd
“ Echoes of the Past,” which tells how Little Elsie cried
because
She’d pierced her glossy skin,
As her daisy wreath she sewed,
With a little crooked pin,
is useless to any journal that doesn’t run an Uncle
Tom ” section.... G.V.K. : Can’t decide if you are apostro-
phising, in “The Forgotten Sea,” the ocean or the gen-
tleman whose hand you held in the long ago. The
confusion brings about the death of the poem, despite a
skilful line or tw0.... Yehondi: “ The Multi-millionaire
is neatly rhymed, and that is all. The alleged statement
of “ the late Mr. Vanderbilt ” that his wealth rendered
him “ the most wretched man in New York ” carries no
conviction to our sordid mind... R.J.: ‘ The lair Sex
is of the futile order of verse—not entertainingly bad,
and miles away from being g00d... .Olave A.: One hor-
rible example from “ Black and White
Oh Tommy Burns and Johnson bold,
You should have shaken hands;
Your conduct was unsportsman-like
In our free and open lands.
The two men did shake hands. Your cheerful inaccuracy
leads us to suspect that you are either a bishop or a pro-
minent solicitor Mirmino : “ City Spring doesn t
spring worth id.... Edward Hume: Nonnan Lindsay
is 28 married, and the owner of three small boys ...
Poll :* The theme you choose is too ghastly. It needs a
practised hand to' write satisfactorily of maniacs
JHM • “ A Song of the South ” is pretty but slight,
and it is slighter than it is pretty.... ..The Wasp: The
assortment for the week ending (2/1/ 09) contains one
right admirable sentiment, anyhow, viz. :
Having been a student of misfortune’s school
During sunshine and cloudy days,
My hope and pride did waneth
Like a log fire’s ruddy blaze.
I build no castles in the air—
I’ll yet be a literary star,
In the stilly night, I endeavor to write
On things just as they are.
Guv Elvod : Burns-Johnson verse has slumped the
great slump ... J.E. : “ Vain Regrets ” left the staff dry-
eved to a man. Your suggested illustration for the
poem viz., “An elderly man sitting in lonely reverie,
with surroundings indicating affluence,” is a brand of
illustration that shall only enter this paper over our
corpse .. Em. : Thanks for stamps and good wishes.
When the critic’s billet gapes will let you know .. Muelo:
Absolutely discredit your yarn re the barber who cut
Johnson’s hair” and deduced from the texture of the
spikes that their owner was a champion. For one thing,
Johnson has his cranial scrub shaved, and the operation
occurs in the home circle.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Gra: One rejected. Two held for further considera-
tion..'. .O.A.G. : Drawings are almost a record in hope-
lessness’ ; also one gag is poor, and the other is old and
doesn’t amount to much.. J. 8.: An old Bulletin joke
badly illustrated... .F. A. : Some of the jokes are old, and
that makes us suspect the others of being ancient. Also
the art is remarkable.. ..G.R. : One nightmare to hand.
Also a picture about Burns, in which you have illustrated
very badly a joke which is only a slight variant of a pic-
tured Bulletin jest of a little while ago.
“Knuckler,” from Maoriland :
Tiki’s thirst is a legend hereabouts, but his method of
obtaining the necessary gin with which to quench it is
now written on the wall. He has played his last trump
and departed, leaving Mr. Mac Pub cleaning his six-
chambered Maori exterminator with an eye to future
U Tiki wanted two bottles of square gin. He discovered
two empty gin bottles, re-filled them with water care-
fully corked them, and finished off with capsules obtained
from the rubbish tip. Placing the two bottles in his coat
pockets, under an oilskin, he casually worded Mr. Mac Pub
in the bar.
“ You got any quar din, boss, eh t
u Yes.”
“ How much for te one pottle. Te good tuff. No me
like te lubbish.”
“ Seven bob,” said Mac Pub.
“ Ali. Ime take one.” , , ~ . .
Mac Pub procured a chair and reached the requested
article from the top shelf. Tiki grunted approval and
inauired, “ How much for te two pottle? Fourteen
shillings” “Ay! I like te two. Ime very dry now.
Mac Pub reached for the other bottle, and while his back
was turned Tiki exchanged one bottle of water for one
of cin. After consideration, Tiki resumed, By golly !
I tink it take te tree pottle.” Mac Pub again turned
his back, and Tiki exchanged another bottle of water for
a Business “Now that te tree pottle, eh?
That make te dwenty-one shillin. X tink kaipai you put
it in te book for me. Me te rangitira here. Next time I
come—you see—l me make te pay twenty shillen, thirty
shillen, five pound you like. No me humbug you.
“ Not much ! ” shouted Mac Pub, and he snatched up
two bottles of water and one of gin. „
Tiki was hurt. He bellowed from the verandah, By
gollv, you te plurry pakeha no good ! You keep te dam
c-in ! No me like come your place any more ! You see !
You te big lose te business ! Next time I can t see you
by yourself I me smash your face ! Yah ! Hokiuiki,
Tokomairiro, dam ! ”
And that is why Mr. Mac Pub has his gun loaded.


Here we
"OH »K £vVj-«l* <Jd*jor- f£e J 5 ore old
-fus-P s.>s Aw*fcl.V
'Now
Won Cp*tso\uiif{enS
" hfon IL Ok
if s !! “
“A«1 »llt**n»n&Cfed .
bic.ee of p»*?fc Are do V f>r*s*»i*d
erstwl jile premier C&o.fZi *d -fer 4«s
leA^et".
Seven ye.z>x<, I served for -
J< never got -
Hiore. op b<Bi^
&ny 'fime. !
' ,/\c&,o is under offer do V'lC'fonA on (”(> A wee Kj
. _ Sound lb Vmd Ai S"fe\yev_ sttT/ J
j
Wot'?- Qoio \rer old b&fd ?
SXf y*Y *>«**- if i_ “Ti; m r K 0 r
Cvi S,T c cnUca >- “*
\t^T 'sh«|'pliV>g > gMeafveejjs^
fVhv'T
del.
««*+•.
>7
imrni GJ'Z' v
‘^yen»^
I Here , Jfowvc OO'T'+O
<jHo ic, di> ce S
£. *i>K -JoK * ]ob, 2^Wben
y ou of one Cowje.
-15 ii vne !
fos+y—" AH! ioJtfer -^KO*v 5
Jour boy ?
Vic ! ' Ko J |
BY HOBSON’S SHORES.


~p/+£ OooLITtNE
?,ctar<L\ Py Jiops
the wav to' The Bulletin picnic last Saturday. The per-
Onthe way to i' rle j, t , are . (u the Advertising
Gent - f (2) the Editor (who, for once, It will be noticed, has
some’ interesting matter in his waste-basket) ; (3) the
(x</\ the Temperance Editor and Handy Han, (4) Hn,, er s
Devi; (5) Sha Washington, as .‘does out” the b-iding
Me- (7) the Fighting Editor; (8) Chaplain; (9 to 120)
various ' prominent members of the staff too numerous to
mention. ..
Arrived at the pa-
vilion, we had an im-
promptu dance. Me and
Martha Washington (in her
Merry Widder hat) as partners was the
sinecure of all eyes.
SPORTS AND PASTIMES.
The 100yds. foot-race
was won by the night-
watchman—the only fat
man on the staff.
I saw a romantic occurrence
take place behind a rock,
which I snapshotted.
And here
is the
snapshot.
' , 7 he Managing Director arrived rather
ate, as he came in one of them ile
aunches and the wind was agin him.
ne brought an apology from Qov.
Rawson, who couldn’t come because it
was the servant’s day out.
Martha Washington (as scrub*
out) easily won the greased-pole
event That woman has talent and,
mark my word, her country will
hear of her yet.
Picnics is not all beer and skittles.-
Picnics has their strenuous features,
my word
Just before we
left 1 saw a mem-
ber of the staff
(who shall be
nameless) taking refreshments out of a
t bottle thinly disguised as a copy of The
Bulletin.
A LATTER-DAY SOLOMON EAGLE.—
(Solomon was the depressed person
who used to call out, “Yet 40 days
and London shall be destroyed.”)
Clement Wragge says there Is going
to be another drought.
At latest advices, Wade’s Yassberra
Capita! has just about burned Itself out.
A British Cabinet rtinister appeared upon a Woman
Suffrage platform at Albert Hall, London, and took a
star part. A woman rose In the gallery, and In a start-
lingly loud voice, called out: “Mr. Lloyd-George, what
we want is deeds, not words! ” and she drew a stout
dog-whip from her pocket and wielded It with the fury
of an Amazon. “Deeds, not words!” she repeated,
with stinging emphasis, as she brought the lash down
on the heads of the attacking party. It was then seen
that the interrupter was chained to her seat.
VISIONS OF THE MOMENT.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
There was a young' man of Balmain,
Who tried every physic in vain.
Said a friend, “ I assure you
Laxo-Tonic will cure you.’*
He tried it, and now has no pain.
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.«
An aged
medical
man
of wide experience
was in the habit
V*
V 5
of saying: ‘ ‘ Almost all the maladies and in-
firmities of man can be referred to one of three
causes:
1. They take too little exercise.
2. They masticate imperfectly.
3. They pay no attention to their mouth and
teeth.”
These were words not only of practical
medical experience, hut also of golden practical
wisdom. And so every man who desires to live
healthily and happily, in accordance with this
dictum of an old man who had studied men
and understood life, will
1. Take frequent walks.
2. Take care to masticate every mouthful
properly.
3. Regularly cleanse his mouth and teeth with
Odol.
Odol is the first and only preparation for
cleansing the mouth and teeth which exercises
its antiseptic and refreshing powers not only
during the few moments of application, but
continuously for some hours afterwards.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Weston Sandford, owner of the yacht
Coronet, and skipper of the quaint Yankee sect
called “The Holy Ghost and Us,” has a better
opinion of Melbourne than Sydney had of him.
The other day he was pleased to remark that
“ Melbourne is a gentleman ; it is the royal city
of the southern hemisphere.” Sandford had just
witnessed Bent’s defeat, which perhaps explains.
Less than three months ago the Sydney
rock-choppers (the men who belt tunnels through
the sandstone to take the sewerage pipes) asked
the public to support them in a struggle to get
better pay for a work which they said was deadly
—so deadly that a man who did it couldn’t live
long. And as if to illustrate the argument,
“Tom” Garraway, the rock-choppers’president,
and one of the men who were sent to gaol for
defying Wade’s Act and going on strike, died last
week in the Coast Hospital.
Ballarat (Vic.) seems to have discovered
an unsuspected centenarian in William Harwood,
who, according to the evidence available, was
born on January 1, 1803. The ancient, who
started life in Dublin, was one of the party that
fixed the line between the Ma State and South
Oss. Some of the waybaek aboriginals didn’t
want any pegs driven in their claims, wherefore
Harwood acquired a spear wound in his hip and a
crack on the forehead from an unusually accurate
boomerang. His wife died only last year; they
had been married 77 years.
England has lately been getting a new view
of its old friend Ranji. Ranji always was a heavy
scorer with tradesmen, though
he struggled fairly hard
in the old days
to pay the bills
when he could;
and lately,
when he visited
England
again, he met
some of those
tradesmen
once more.
What hap-
pened is pro-
bably explain-
ed by his
lawyer, who
wrote to the
papers to say
that he
couldn’t ad-
vise his client
“to allow any
action to pro-
ceed against
him in the
English Courts.
To do so would
be to abandon
one of his Sovereign Rights.” And now numerous
people are looking down their noses—it never
occurred to them that a mere Jam of some small,
remote Indian community might be superior to
English law, especially with regard to purchases
made m England.
At Broken Hill it is understood that Tom
Mann’s pay as organiser is £8 a week, with £4 for
expenses. There is every reason why Labor
should pay its organisers the same good salaries
that Fat pays its organisers ; the trouble is that
it s only the imported person in the chain-clanking
business who gets pay on a scale like this. The
chief, hard-working, level-headed permanent
secretary at Sydney Trades Hall doesn’t get half
°f lt; > an< b when a rise was suggested in his screw
the other day, a niggardly 10s. a week was allowed,
after considerable discussion.
For this “ Lantana ” is responsible :
Mrs. Caroline Greenhalgh, of Lismore (N.S.W.), cele-
brated her 108th birthday on January 4. She is as active
as a mere nonagenarian. Her memory is excellent, and
she clearly recalls the departure of the British troops
wiac journeyed Waterloo-wards to engage Boney. Her
tales of early Sydney are absorbing enough to be made
into a book. She has lived on the Richmond River for 74
years, and had a family of 16 children, nine of whom are
lving. The total of her descendants at present number
somewhere about 200.
“Westerner” : The magistrates (honorary
and otherwise) of Westralia are a queer assort-
ment. One just-retired P.M. had an absent-
minded way of mistaking a witness for the
prisoner, and fining him severely. Another
distinguished himself by giving an unfor-
tunate devil five years hard for stealing a
cow. A third puts in most of his time
sitting on corpses, which happen with
amazing frequency in his district. He
is a pompous old chap with a weakness
for law-Latin. In a suicide case, where
the subject had blown the top of his
head off and perished on the spot, his
Washup informed the jurymen that it
was a clear case of felo-de-se, and direct-
ed them to find the corpse guilty ac-
cordingly. The yokel jury brought in
a verdict of “found drowned,” being
under the impression that the Court
said deceased “fell in the sea.”
The Rev. Samuel Marsden,
whose old house—St. John’s parsonage,
at Parramatta (N.S.W.)—is being
pulled down, after nearly a century’s
existence, deserves credit for being the
first _ resident of Australia to plead
publicly and privately for the estab-
lishment of an Australian library. On
a visit to England in 1809 he pushed his
hobby before the public there, and
called for donations of books, especially
works on agriculture, mineralogy and
mechanics ; and undertook to hump the
lot back to Australia and place them at
the service of the residents. That was
probably the first time the hard-worked
Australian hat went round in England. It
has been round very often since then, and mostly
on much less creditable errands.
Premier Murray of Victoria, erstwhile
Radical, had to fight for his Warrnambool seat
against a Labor man. A few years ago John was,
though not pledged, regarded as one of the Labor
party ; and time and again the Warrnambool
Conservatives moved Heaven and earth to
beat him. .At that time six of the most pro-
minent Tories took a vow that they would oppose
Murray at every election until they shifted him.
But, on December 29, five of these six (the other
one is dead) voted for their old enemy, to keep
the Labor man out. And this fact alone shows
very plainly the decadence of John.
Labor member Jack Holman, who was
again reprimanded by the Speaker last week,
enjoys the distinction of being the most-suspended
man in the Westralian Parliament. He is carried
out of the House as often as Norton was in
N.S. W. or Glassev in Queensland. Holman was
a barber on the Murchison (W.A.), a few years
ago, and still runs a shop there. He dabbled in
union politics, and got his first rise when the con-
fused Morgans Ministry was tossed out, defeating
the late Moorhead, then Attorney-General and
afterwards Judge. Holman was Minister for
Labor in the awful Daglish Government; but
falling foul of his chief, was unceremoniously
fired out by wire. (They are fairly sudden in the
West.) A dumb dog at first, Holman is now a
fluent and fiery speaker, with a most amazing
contempt for the aspirate. His definition of an
“open cut,” given in the Arbitration Court while
conducting a mining case, has become famous :
“ A hopen cut, yer’onor? Hit’s an ’ole in the
side of an ’ill.”
IN TOPHET. —THE CRICKETERS.
CRICKETUS : “ Well, what did Councilitus decide ?”
DKPUTATIONUS : “We are to play for the love of
game AND NO GATE MONEY.”
“ Oby ” writes from a back seat in Federal
politics:—
Mr. Atlee Hunt is said to be severely shocked over the
refusal of the Australian Parliament to put an extra £lOO
a year on his salary. But he is not the unluckiest man in
Australia notwithstanding. Besides, he has shown such
a talent for catching opportunities that, as likely as not,
those who have rejected the £lOO rise will put on £2OO
extra next Estimates. Mr. Hunt was once a modest school-
master. Then he was aN.S.W. Works Office clerk who
studied law. He married into the Bruce Smith family,
and when Bruce wanted a junior in the McSharry
case he nominated Atlee, at five guineas a day—
and the case lasted a mighty long time. When
Bruce afterwards stood for the Glebe against
Jim Hogue, Atlee went the rounds of the con-
stituency, canvassing for his patron and shaking the hands
of voters whom Bruce hadn’t time to shake. But Bruce
went down. Then Atlee laid hold of Toby Barton. Barton
was bound to rise, and, if the grip held, the two would
rise together. The grip held all right, though the strain
on Barton’s coat-tail was considerable. Atlee became
private secretary to the first Federal Premier, and, later
on, a Federal fixture, with the Governorship of Papua
among the possibilities. It is natural he should feel
shocked at the deed of Parliament in refusing that £lOO.
The loss of the money is nothing, but the episode is an
indication that he has let the machine run down. How-
ever, next year’s Estimates have to come.
Cultivate a good memory, other requirements
will be easy. Half-an-hour daily for six weeks will
perfect your memory. The Pelman System is the natural
one, easily and quickly acquired, perm anent benefits.
Taught by post. Write Pelman School of Memory, 3
Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne.* [4
The death of David Gaunson leaves only
four survivors of Baronet O’Loghlen’s wonderful
Victorian Ministry of 1881-83. These are —J. H.
Graves, Walter Madden, L. L. Smith (“Don’t
you feel well, young man ? ”), and Tommy Bent.
Of the Service-Berry Ministry, which followed,
Alf. Deakin remains.
THE FINISHING TOUCH.
THE YOUTHFUL ONE (after a heated argument)
“ What would you do if I called you a liar?',
THE OTHER : “ I'd mention your indiscretion to
the coroner at the inquest."
Cole, of Melbourne’s Book Arcade, was
77 on the 4th. He still takes an active interest
in his business, and some more or less violent
exercise in the distribution of repelling diagrams
and literature, showing how Australia can be
made into a Paradise of Eurasians, Chows, Cin-
galese, and other gentlefolk. Cole, to be sure, is
a grand old man in his way. But it is a most
misguided way.
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant:—
Barrister Maugban, who marries Miss Muffle Barton
(B. 7/l/’O9), comes of old Australian families. His mother
is a daughter of John Thompson, N.S.W. Deputy Surveyor-
General in the loner, long ago. Also she is sister of Richard
Windeyer Thompson, solicitor, one time M.L.A. for Mait-
land, who died twelve months ago, and of John Malbon
Thompson, the Queensland politician, who followed him
over Jordan a few months since, at the age of 78 years.
Deput.v-Surveyor-General Thompson, a Sydney native"
married a daughter of the first Windeyer who came to
Australia, in 1828, and became Police Magistrate of
Sydney. The Maughans were in commercial life in
Sydney in the late twenties. Miss Barton’s father,
“Toby” of the Federal High Court, is also a Svdney
native, his father having come to Australia in an official
capacity to the Australian Agricultural Company in the
twenties. The elder Barton was the first stock and share
broker in Sydney.
J. P. McLarty, who died last week, was
one of Westralia’s first landgrabbers, and securely
held on to large tracts of country both in nor’-west
and sou’-west corners of the State up to the day of
his passing out. At the general elections, held
last year, he defeated his old opponent, W. J.
George, ex-Chief Commissioner of Railways, by a
small majority. With Emanuel, Forrest, Cop-
ley, Connor, Holmes and co., the McLarty clan
figured largely in the great meat combine, which
has ruled the meat market of Groperland for years
past—the beef banditti of the West, or, in the
late journalist-politician Vosper’s words, ‘ ‘ Western
Australia’s most damnable curse!” When the
soul of John P. McLarty, ex-M.L.A., stands before
the Throne, he will have to answer awkward ques-
tions as to why many hungry workers of the gold
State were forced to pay from Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. per
lb. for their breakfast steak.
“ A Man who Knew Him ” writes :
Dr. W. R. Cortis, Who died in Westralia last week, was
well known on Sydney side as a straight-going sportsman.
While resident at Bathurst he had a fine string of cross-
country horses, and was himself no mean rider. Likewise
he was a swimmer of note. On one stormy winter’s
night, in Sydney Harbor, he plunged from a North Shore
ferry-boat and rescued a passenger who had fallen over-
board in mid-stream. His home in Bathurst was dis-
turbed through his weakness in allowing himself to be
nominated in the Imported Shoddy interest against
Frank Suttor, who had left Parkes and joined the
Protectionist party. Cortis was elected, and he sold off
his stud and went to North Sydney to practise.
After that he was an unsettled man and rested nowhere.
He went to South Africa, tried many other spots, and
finally accepted a magistracy at Derby, in Westralia. He
had 40 years in practice, his early experience being as
House Surgeon at Guy’s Hospital, London. His father
and brother were medicoes, and practised for a time in
Sydney. The brother was a great cyclist, and fell a
victim to the “pastime.” The father’s name frequently
appeared at the foot of violent letters against Home Rule
for Ireland, etc. One Parliament was quite enough for
Dr. W. R. Cortis. Besides, there were no signs of any
renewed demand for him there.
“ 0.K.” writes :
Oscar VVilde, whose talent was but a poor apology for
his iniquities, is to have a £2OOO monument over his
grave at Pfere La Chaise, Paris. The money comes from
an anonymous donor who probably never heard all the
truth about the author of “The Picture of Dorian Gray.”
Wilde was something worse than a sex pervert and a
propagandist of foul doctrine. His character was not
fully explained by his cynical comment on the Bible:
“ When I think of all the mischief that Book has worked
in the world I despair of writing anything to equal it.”
He might have pleaded a desire for self-justification
which he badly needed, for he published a pestilential
magazine and circulated it privately among the
young Oxford collegians, when he was a middle-aged
satyr. But from his earliest unmanhood he must have
taken a fiendish delight in the mental suffering of at least
one woman. When his rooms in London were raided by
the police they found among his papers a bundle of old
letters written to him by the mother of one of his young
college mates. The writer implored him to desist from
influencing her boy. Her letters were heartrending peti-
tions. The cold-blooded sentimentalist had marked
them with cynical annotations, bound them together
with pink satin ribbon, and kept them as trophies. If
Oscar gets his monument in the Paris cemetery it is to be
hoped that somebody will deface it with the ribald
rhyming epitaph beginning—“ He’s dead, he’s gone—but
not to God.”
Tom Tunnicliffe, who has just been re-
turned again for Eaglehawk, is one of the most
interesting men in the Victorian Labor party. He
is a bootmaker by trade, a rebel by nature, and a
Socialist by conviction. He was one of the
founders of the Melbourne Tocsin, and livened
its columns with fiery articles on various ideals.
Also he took a leading part with Anstev and
Elmslie (both also in the House now) in founding
the Victorian Labor Federation, a gigantic scheme
for amalgamating all the unions, Socialist leagues,
and co-operative societies on the lines adopted in
Belgium. The scheme was too big to be work-
able, or else the right men didn’t work it; anyhow
it soon fell to pieces. Tunnicliffe then took to
practical politics, and is now a very useful mem-
ber of the party.
By the “ Oldest Inhabitant” :
Apropos the Humes, of which family came Hamilton
H., the explorer (B. 7/l/’O9). The family is understood to
have been settled in County Wicklow (Ireland) for many
generations, Humewood, at Kiltegan, being their old
home. The Humes were active against the Irish patriots
in 1798 and 1803, but were not inhuman as were most of
those on the English side. It was to the head of the
house that Michael Dwyer surrendered on condition that
he should be allowed to exile himself to America. Hume
submitted Dwyer’s proposal to “ the Castle,” and “the
Castle” agreed. Hume brought Dwyer to Dublin and
lodged him in Kilmainhain Gaol until a ship was ready to
take him and some of his confreres to the United States.
But faith was broken with Hume as a matter of course,
Dwyer and his friends being shipped to Sydney. Hume
resented the breach of faith and took no further interest
in “ English affairs” in his county. An anecdote is told
about Hume and Dwyer. When the former was leaving
the latter in Kilmainham, he said, “ Now, Dwyer, that all
the trouble is over, tell me where you were in hiding on
the morning we were scouring the county for you?”
“ Well,” was the reply, “ when the yeomanry was
assembling on your lawn, preparatory to setting out on
their expedition, I was viewing the scene from your
hay-loft.”
David Gaunson, Victoria’s departed solici-
tor, had numerous uproarious conflicts, both in the
House and in the law courts, with his brother-
shark Purves. One of the most notable was
during the stupendously lengthy preliminary pro-
ceedings over the Premier Permanent Building
Society. Gaunson threw an unsavory gibe at
Purves meant for that person’s ear alone, but just
at the wrong half-second silence suddenly devas-
tated the court, and Gaunson’s remark stood out
in bold relief, like the Statue of Liberty over New
York Harbor. Gaunson mostly lived on beer.
That is to say, his clients were mostly of the pub-
lic-house persuasion. The publicans loved David.
He knew the Vic. Licensing Act from beginning
to end. He would roll the beer-barrel of his case
straight up against what looked like a sheer preci-
pice of Law. Then, behold ! the precipice would
open, and David and the beer would pass through.
A well-ventilated Act was the Vic. licensing law,
mainly by reason of Gaunson.
A. N. Barnett, the stipendiary magistrate
who has been packed off to Broken Hill to hear
the charge against Tom Mann and the other
small, tuppenny insurrectionists, happened to be
the magistrate who committed the ’92 strike-
conspiracy prisoners for trial at the same place.
Whittingdale Johnson, S.M., had been sent up
from Sydney to hear those and any other cases
that might arise; but, not liking Johnson,
Sleath, Ferguson, and the rest had him sub-
poenaed as a witness, and so he couldn’t sit as an
S.M. As the Broken Hill magistrate was “in-
disposed,” Barnett, then Mining Warden at Sil-
verton, next door, was called in.
BACK I
news item 1)111 Macky has returned to Sydney.—Ordinary
Back !
Doctor Dill Mack—
With his gaiters of black,
And his ceaseless attack
Upon “ Rome ” and the rack,
Has come back—
Alack!
Back!
Now for a crack
At Pat Moran—whack ! whack l
Things were getting quite slack,
And we long for a smack
Of our old “ Fighting Mac. !”
He’s once more on the track
Of the whole papal pack ;
He's the man with the knack—
The approved “ Christian ” knack—
Of How to Hit Back
At Pat, Sandy or Jack.
Dill is back—
Alack 1
Back!
Peace gets the sack,
Fair-play goes to wrack
’Twixt the Cartholic Mick and the Prodestant Mack 1
(Of both we are sick and whole-heartedly “jack.”)
“ A plague o’ both churches ! ”—to paraphrase Shak.
What is “Rome ’’ to the worker in town or out back ?
Let Dill-Macky bray ! Let the Cardinal quack !
They both forget Jesus was born in a shack,
And that, could He come back,
The first thing He d do would be— give them the sack 1
That’s a fac’!
N.S.W.
CLARRNCE O'HAGAN.
MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORSE I
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Excerpt from wire from Broken Hill, Sydney D.T.
9/l/’O9 : “ Tom Mann was somewhat hoarse to-night, and
is evidently feeling the strain of the oratorical campaign.”
Though pleasing, maybe, to the Force
And folks of the superior class ;
This is regretful news, of course,
(At least, I hope so) to the mass !
And yet, methinks, you will endorse
This sentiment and let it pass :
Far better be a little hoarse
Than to become a little ass 1
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


S'
S?«*
*/
A
-
... T&r^n-
The pleasure of all outdoor enjoyment is
enhanced by a pipe of VICE-REGAL MIXTURE.


Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful W ater Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
ILLNESS FROM
LACK OF BLOOD
A Sydney Woman tells
how the Tonic
Treatment Restored
her Health, Strength
and Energy.
In no disease is delay or neglect more dangerous
than in anaemia, or poverty of the blood. This dis-
order is common in persons who work hard, or are
confined within doors. It makes its approach in so
stealthy a manner that it is often well developed
before its presence is recognised.
Taken in time, the disease is readily curable,
the cure being a tonic medicine which increases
the red matter in the blood, thus enabling it to
carry life and health to all the tissues of the body.
Such a tonic is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
That’s what they are for ; to increase the blood
supply. That they will cure anaemia is as certain
as almost anything in medical science.
This is proved in the case of Mrs. J. Fleming,
63 Clarence Lane, Sydney, who was afflicted so
badly with bloodlessness that she had to give up
her position.
“I was in a position when I fell ill, the work
was very hard and pulled me down, and I got so
bad that I had to leave,” said Mrs. Fleming. “ I
could not eat some days and perhaps the next
few days I’d be quite ravenous; but my food
didn’t nourish me. It lay like a cold weight on
my chest for hours after. I’d feel quite dragged
down with a heavy pain between my breast bone
and shoulder blades. I’d feel quite worn out
with no strength and dragged through the day in
utter weariness. My blood seemed very thin, just
like water. I was drowsy all day and very
wretched in spirits. My color was very bad; I
looked pallid, yet yellowish. I was ailing nearly a
year when I made up my mind to give Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills a trial. The first box did me
a little good, and I got another, as I found the pills
improved my appetite and made me feel brighter
and clearer. With the second box my sickly
yellow color went away. I began to feel stronger
with every dose and could take to my work again
without the old weariness and drowsiness. My
blood got much richer and I didn’t take cold as I
used to. By the time I had finished the third box
I had completely recovered and have enjoyed the
the best of health ever since.”
Wasting Time.
It is a waste of time to take an imitation or sub-
stitute for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. If the sub-
stitutes sometimes offered by shopkeepers were as
good as Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills they would have
just as great a reputation, but the fact is you
never heard of them before. Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills are known all over the world, because of the
cures they have effected.
There are so many shops where the genuine pills
can be had without question that people are
foolish to trade where they are pestered to take
something else.
The price is 2s. 9d. per box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if you have trouble in getting them send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co., of Australasia Ltd., Sydney, and
they will be sent post free by return mail.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
M
0
Sl
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Johnny ” Lemmon, the youthful Labor
member for Williamstown (Vic.), told the electors
of that seaport that when he first stood for Parlia-
ment he was asked by his committee if he had
“been to see David (i.e., David Syme) yet?”
On his replying “No,” he was told, “Oh, you
must go and see him at once,
otherwise you’ll have no chance! ”
All the same, Lemmon didn’t
go ; and all the same he won.
THE SOLE SURVIVOR.
There is a strong feeling that the appointment of the
Postal Commission was a far ce.—Daily Paper.
THE CORPSE : “ Well, I call this an insult of
an inquest ”
After the first disastrous case, the Vic.
Railway Commissioners evidently thought better
of their intention to fight claims for compensation
for injuries received in the Sunshine disaster;
and, so it was announced the other day, all the
claims have been settled for £124,000, including
medical and legal expenses. The Departmental
bosses not only wanted to avoid the odium of
fighting just claims, but they were also eager to
get the whole unpleasant episode buried as
speedily as possible. Yet, in spite of their efforts,
it should be someone’s business to have the
responsibility for that disaster fixed on somebody.
Mrs. S. L. Morrison, Humffray Street,
Ballarat, Vic., writes : “Both my mother and I
are firm believers in Chamberlain’s Tablets. We
have used them for stomach and liver troubles and
them most effective. The use of most
pills is foil owed by constipation, but Chamberlain’s
lablets are so mild and gentle in their action that
they leave no bad after effect.*
The Undesirable Alien is a very small pro-
portion of the population in the N.S.W. sugar-
cane region, but there, as everywhere else, he
leads a strenuous life in the police court. One
recent day there were eleven offenders before the
Lismore Court, and five of them were our un-
desirable brother—three Indians, a Kanaka and
an Egyptian.
For once Gregory Wade doesn’t think the
”°' tl ™h i® encroaching on the rights of
JN.S. W. The Broken Hill arbitration case will
be a difficult business, and Wade’s conviction
that it is purely a matter for the Federal Court is
like the pyramids for. firmness.
David Storey, who is, apparently, after
N.S.W. Premier Wade’s present job, and thinks
(in public) accordingly that Ma’s present Premier
is an ideal man to succeed C. -J. Darley on the
Supreme Court Bench, winds up a letter in the
tvt Uerald (7/l/’O9) advocating Wade as
N.S.W. Chief Justice with these gloriously
ingenuous words :
In my opinion, New South Wales requires a time of
tranquility and cessation from the hardships arising from
the enactment of new laws, excepting what are necessary
for the opening up of our State by railways, tramways,
irrigation, immigration, the cultivation of the land by
means of closer settlement, and labor and capital kept
friendly; then, indeed, with sound common-sense admin-
istration, the people will take fresh heart, their pent-up
energies will be loosened, enterprise will be in evidence,
and increasing, genuine, and general prosperity will be
the result.
In effect, says Storey, the Wade legislation—for
most of which Storey voted—is (1) oppressive, (2)
unnecessary. The State will be better, Storey
thinks, without Wade—the same Wade to whom
the same Storey has been affording pretty con-
stant support during the past 18 months. So
much so, that on the retirement of Wade Storey
opines that—
The people will take fresh heart, their pent-up energies
will be loosened, enterprise will be in evidence, and in-
creasing, general and genuine prosperity will be the
result.
All due to the withdrawal of Wade ! And this is
the human calamity whom Storey is striving
to foist into a public billet, where he can be
calamitous for pretty nearly the term of his
natural life.
“J.R.”: It’s getting too bad for any-
thing. After N.S.W. Premier Wade’s elaborate
show of generosity in promising, if Yassberra was
only chosen for the capital, to throw in land
enough for a Federal port (he was careful not to
say how much) at Jervis Bay, his own State
officials pour contempt on the place. The Public
Works Committee was inquiring into a scheme
for a railway or tramway from Nowra to Jervis
Bay, when the Traffic Manager for Railways en-
thusiastically declared that the district had gone
back rather than forward during the last years :
On every point he was opposed to the construction of
the line, and would not under existing conditions advo-
cate an extension of the railway over that 15 miles 30
chains. There would certainly be a little stimulation of
tourist traffic, but not sufficient to justify the construc-
tion and maintenance of a tramline. Jervis Bay is not
such a tourist attraction to fishermen as is sometimes
thought. He had seen moke people seasick in Jekvis
Bay than Odtside. Heavy seas get up in that broad area
of water.
At that rate Australia may thank Wade for
nothing. If the traffic manager really knew what
he was talking about, the proposed Federal port
would be useless to the Commonwealth or anyone
else. A harbor, in which such a sea gets up as to
make people seasick, would give very uneasy
anchorage. Clearly, _ the State has done very
little good with it, since the only apology for a
township on the shores of the bay died from
atrophy many years ago. It would, perhaps, be
just as well for the Australian Parliament to look
this particular gift horse of Wade’s very carefully
in the mouth before accepting responsibility for
the animal.
Premier Wade’s stock slumps steadily in
N.S.W., and a live Labor party with leaders quite
unlike McGowen and Holman and not encumbered
with so many restrictions might shove the
tottering throne over at almost any
moment. A dull, wooden sort of
political tyrant is Gregory Wade;
cold, ungenial, closely buttoned
up in the garment of his own
unimportance, uncommuni-
cative, remote, and not
even so wildly civil as he
might be. Many of his
own followers weary of
him, and would gladly
see him depart for some
other sphere of glacial
action. Then, presumably,
Twaddle would come into his
lost kingdom again—unless B. R,.
Wise happened to irrupt into politics and upset
all calculations and applecarts. In this Day of
Small Things the coming of a man like B. R.
Wise would be a pleasant change.
The Sydney Clerks’ Union is begin-
ning to haunt the sleep of sundry followers
of Wade who voted for the exclusion of pen-
pushers from the “benefits” of the Industrial
Disputes Act. The Union proposes to form
“speaking teams” to invade the electorates of
the members who supported Wade in this matter,
and violently draw the attention of electors to the
conduct of their representatives. And the average
local representative knows that once the electors
grasp the full iniquity of the position he is likely
to get a short shrift and a long drop into oblivion.
The Federal revenue for the half-year just
closed was about £450,000 less than that for the
last half of 1907. The decline was wholly in
Customs revenue, and that is a decline which the
growth of local manufactures renders inevitable.
In fact, it is likely to grow worse instead of bet-
ter ; and considering that the Braddon clause has
still two years to run, that old-age pensions be-
come payable on July 1, 1909, that £2,000,000 are
wanted for post and telegraph extension, and that
the land and sea defence question, the Northern
Territory and the two transcontinental railways
haven’t been touched yet, it seems that it would
be a fair thing to get Parliament together and do
a very sudden hustle in the matter of a graduated
land-tax. Such an impost would bring in at least
a little revenue; also it would make room for
millions of new settlers, and the Federal Govern-
ment can do with some millions of new taxpayers
these days.
MOTHERS
Do you know that Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery will
relieve eroup instantly ? As it contains no harmful drugs
of any kind, it is perfectly safe for your children. Small
dose. Pleasant to take. Price, Is. 6d. ; large size, 3s.
For sale everywhere.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “peaceful” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
Consider some of the names in the Bent
Ministry, and then wonder how it held on so
long: Bent, Craven, Downward, Cussen, Wee-
don, Bowser, Cullen. Names like that could be
safely held as 'prima
facie evidence of political
poverty.
THE BOGEY PREFERRED.
There is to Liberals more danger of contact with Con-
servatism, with its low standard of political ethics and
its condonation of dishonest practices, than there is in all
the Labor extremes.—AGE.
T HE BOGEY: “ You talk about ME; why, YOU'RE
not even a genuine respectable married bogey !”
Rumor credits the management of the
North Woah Hawp Mining Co., Ballarat (Vic.),
with an attempt to penalise its men for their
political opinions. A day or two ago 21 miners
were discharged on the plea that “the mine can
now be worked with a reduced staff.” It is stated
on the other side that the mine, in order to obtain
the stone for its fortnightly average crushings,
must employ a fixed number of men. Moreover,
the discharged men assert that the order of the
sack is their reward for supporting a local Labor
man at Bent’s elections. Anyhow, it would have
looked (and smelt) more plausible if the North
Woah Hawp had chosen some other time for dis-
covering that it had 21 superfluous men.
“J.D.”: For plain, humorless snuffle
commend me to the effort of Alderman Ivey, of
Broken Hill, in re the arrest of brother Mann.
Ivey wanted Mann released on bail. He told a
S.M. Herald reporter about his trouble: —
" I even offered the life of my child as surety,” he said,
“ and was refused.”
A more asinine thing to offer in the above circum-
stances than a child’s life it is impossible to
conceive. Assume Thomas bolted from his bail.
Does Ivey consider the State would be justified in
taking it out of the offspring’s hide with an axe ?
Such palpably hysterical poppycock should be left
to the exploiters of the Burst Marriage Tie and
Confiscated Home yarns. The stuff is distress-
ingly out of place outside a Liberal and Reform
committee room.
This letter arrived unsigned, but it seems
to be the work of George Reid, who ran the Anti-
Socialistic and Busted Marriage Tie campaign at
last Federal elections:—
Stay 1 Holdon 1! Waiterminute !!! Halt 111! 'Xen-
shun 11 111 Harken thou unto 111 1111 Did I not tell
you? Did I not warn you?? Did I not caution j’ou???
Did I not admonish you???? Did I not weep tears of
blood for you, my bretheren and sisteren ??? ? ? Did not I
tell you what would happen?????? And has it
not happened ??????? Don’t attempt to deny it 1
I told, you what would happen within a week
were a Socialistic Government to obtain office 1 And—
you, has it not happened exactly as I foretold 1 What has
become of the sanctity of the blanky Marriage Tie ? It
is broke, bust and defunct 1 What about the sacredness
of the ’Ome?? Is it not smashed, shattered, obliterated,
erased, eradicated and consigned to unmitigated
oblivion??? Is not polygamy rampant???? Have not
Free Loveries received a special Government grant?????
And Capital! What of Capital? Is it not leaving the
blighted country in boat loads, in dray loads, in motor
cars, in shoals, in battalions and in a hurry? Don’t
attempt to deny it 1 Ye gods 1 Ye gods 11 Your gods,
my gods, the other fellow’s gods, and any other odd gods
you can think of 1 How long shall this fair country
suffer under this blight ? How long, O Lord, how long?
By all the bones in all the abattoirs, I shall save it—l,
even It!! Call up Anti-Sosh. Blow loud the blatant
bugle and let dyspeptic trombones make much moan,
and shrill tin whistles screech, while morbid factory
chimneys belch forth their stinking vapors to the out-
raged Heavens 11 To arms 11 Let the pibroch send
forth its shrill notes of gory war, and to the fierce martial
strains of the “Merry Widow” waltz we will march upon
the bloated capital 111 Don’t attempt to deny it 111 1
Ha, ha 11111 And again—Ha, ha 111
The Grave, great teacher, to a level
brings
Hero, and beggar, galley slave and
kings.
WILLIS’S BOOK, “ The Life of Crick,
with Reminiscences of A. G. Taylor,” is now
definitely promised to see the light in March next.
Much interest is taken in Willis’s effort to vindi-
cate his dead friend before the bar of public
opinion. Willis knew Crick for more than 30
years, and for many a long day was his close con-
fidant, so he should be able to speak with some
certainty and authority. He promises strong
censure and extra strong denunciation of some
persons sitting in high places.
Willis pledges the book to be readable from
cover to cover; therefore many Australians are on
the tiptoe of expectancy to secure a first issue
volume. This can be done effectually by sending
5/- direct to W. N. Willis, Randwick, Sydney, and
he will see that a first volume is posted in Aus-
tralia to South Africa, New Zealand or England.
Those who believe that Crick was badly treated
by a mob of political pigmies should order the
book of his vindication without delay.
The reminiscenses of the brilliant A. G. Taylor
should be highly interesting reading and food for
the mind of the present day generation. On the
Elatform, in politics, on the press, or fighting alone
is case against the New South Wales Government,
before the Privy Council, Taylor had no equal in
his time. Willis romped and scampered over the
fields at Mudgee, robbed orchards, played marbles,
and was generally a boy mate of Taylor’s. In
after life they were associated on the press and in
Parliament together, consequently much interest
is added to the work by the inclusion of some
memoirs of Taylor’s life.
“Politicus” : With the passing of Bent,
one of the longest-reigning Victorian Ministries
comes to a timely end. The Irvine-Bent push is,
in fact, second on the list with a reign of 1786
days, beating the first McCulloch Ministry (1773
days) by a short neck. Probably Adolphus was
hanging on in a desperate attempt to secure the
record, which is now held by the first Turner
Government (1895 days). The shortest-lived Vic-
torian Ministry was the first of John O’Shanassy
(49 days); the places being filled by the Sladen
Ministry (66 days) and the first Berry Ministry
(74 days).
Victoria’s new Premier, Murray, has re-
presented Warrnambool for 23 years. The elec-
tion, the other day, was his eleventh win.
Warrnambool is a western town, stifled by the
estates of the big landlords and strangled by
the railway policy which drags everything
to Melbourne. It has been losing popu-
lation for many years, and unless Murray
does something violent in the way of break-
ing up big estates Warrnambool may dis-
appear some day, and with it Murray’s
steady job.
The Bent Ministry has resigned, and
simultaneously this advt. appears in Melbourne
Age
pIGS’ Feed for sale. Chef, State Parliament House.
It almost reads as if the caterer had lost some
regular customers.
As times and traffic have improved, the
N.S.W. Socialistic railways have made cut after
cut in the passenger and goods rates. But did
anybody notice any cut in the rates charged by
the Anti-Sosh ferry cos. of Sydney, or the Anti-
Sosh coastal services of the State? The ferry cos.
have put up their divs. or watered their stock
(which amounts to the same thing), or done both
at once ; but the person who lives in the red-tiled
house at Manly or on North Shore, and snorts
at the Labor party, and regards Wade and Anti-
Sosh as great institutions, still pays as much as
he did when times were bad and the traffic only
moderate. And it is just the reward that he
deserves.
THE GREAT BLIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the subject of the British working man Mr. Edison
was pessimistic. “ Your unskilled labor,” he said, “is
the worst I have handled. You have lost so many of
your industries that you have an armv of people who
either won’t work or can’t work. Placing the skilled
American working man at 90 per cent., your unskilled
laborers are not 30 percent, in working value. They are
not equal to the Greeks whom I employ, or even to the
Southern Italians. I ascribe the cause to too much
Freetrade.”—S. M. Herald, 6/l/’O9.
They are depressing statements, these
Of expert Edison;
Upon investigation he’s
Come to the view that none
Of Britain’s vaunted working men
Is worth (as such) his beer:
He speaks of what’s within his ken
In terms precise and clear.
Freetrade is not, as some contend,
In practice a unique
And blessfed boon ; it does not tend
Towards a working week.
It fails to bring the toiler toil;
Only long, loafing days
And profitless, by untilled soil
Where sheep and cattle graze.
Watching another person’s beast
(Or sheep) the while it chews
Does not inspirit in the least
Your man of bulging thews.
In fact, it cramps his hand and brain,
Says Edison. A space
Of it avails, he owns with pain,
To damn men for Life’s race.
Which possibly explains why right
Through Britain nowadays
The British worker—he whose might
And skill and honest ways
Have been so oft impressed on us—
Struggles unceasingly,
Yet never grabs the fleeing ’bus
Labelled “ Prosperity.”
A fiscal blight is on his land;
It smites him blow on blow ;
It drives his job to Hamburg, and,
That he may deeper go
And taste disaster past all doubt,
In his small island pent,
It steals his skill and casts him out,
Tradeless, incompetent.
N.S.W.
J.D.


Melbourne.
HOE
Mm
Pump Sole
17/6
Welt Sole
18/6
BEST
VALUE
,1 IN
Australia,
Postage
Extra
9”
%
N° LB. 101.
Enamel Kid
StS^wjoshed
Lace Shoe,
Dull Kid Top. Straight Car"
BuCKLEY&NuNN.L™
MELBOURNE.
Fine
Shoe
Dealers
Clabff Sc Melb
(
m
1
Goulds Power Rotary
Force Pomps
for use in creameries, breweries, wine
cellars and oil refineries, are the result
Fig 1185%
of years of experience. They are un-
questionable in quality and adaptable for
handling wines, liquors and acid sub;
stances. Made of iron or bronze as
ordered. Bronze is recommended where
pumps are to be used in distilleries, malt
houses, etc. We build a complete line of
Rotary Pumps and can meet any require-
ment. Write for book on the subject or
ask for our complete catalogue of Pumps
for every service.
THE GOUL®S MANUFACTURING CO.
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
[LEMOSI
sweetened [
lemon
vSQUASH/
BE CAREFUL
WHAT YOU DRINK
You can’t be too careful what you drink in
Summer. Drink BROOKE’S “ LEMOS’’-the
beverage that is pure and healthful. It is
the original Lemdn Squash, and is far and
away superior t*» any other hot weather
drink. Isn’t it, now ?
BROOKE’S “ LEMOS
SWEETENED
LEMON SQUASH.
A MANLY POSSESSION!
i^“
The possession of a strong flowing moustache is always its owner’s pride.
It adds to your appearance, and makes you lo i ■
CAPILLARINE
will produce such a moustache quicker than
ati v other pomade on the market. 10r25 y ears
it has been doing its good work, and haa given
satisfaction to thousands of grateful users.
START USING
IT NOW !
POST FREE ANYWHERE FOR 10/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 G«orge Street, Sydo«V-
fore
jmr
Established
25 Years.
THE THERMOS FLASK.
EVERY Squatter, Motorist, Yachtsman, and everyone
whose work or pleasure takes them out into. the
heat or cold, will find the celebrated THERMOS
FLASK invaluable*
It keeps hot drinks hot for 24 hours and cold drinks
cold for days*
Fill it up with a pint of hot tea in the early morning,
and when you feel you would like a drink of hot tea,
it is there just as when you poured it in* Just the same
with an iced whisky and soda, or any other cold drink*
Australians will welcome this flask, and, as the supply
is not unlimited, we advise early ordering*
Makes a splendid gift from one friend to another, or
for a wife to give to her husband*
THERMOS FLASK, nickelled finish, and covered
with plain leather, to hold one pint, sent securely packed
and post free for £.l 15 s*
strand corner,George"
(AUSTRALIA), LTD
7


CHAMPAGNE
1900 VINTAGE IS THE
FAVORITE.
sd
THE GREAT FABRIC
that Rivals Silk.
Specially adapted for BLOUSES, SLIPS, PETTICOATS,
CHILDREN’S DRESSES, SKIRT and BODICE LININGS,
CUSHION COVERS, etc.
BLACKS ABSOLUTELY FAST.
“ Silvasheen, the best lining—it lasts where Silk does
not, and has all the Sheen of a Silk.”
Obtained Grand Prix Pari3 Exhibition, 1900.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR IT.-*f
I’m the Robur Tea Girl,
and wish to explain that
fine quality teas, being made
from the tenderest leaves,
break easily and come through
the teapot’s spout much more
than common teas do.
We have a number of
Sterling Silver-plated Tea
Strainers, with Robur Tea
stamped upon them—they are
worth perhaps 4/- or 5/- each,
but, for the sake of the
advertisement, we are prepared
to post one to anybody who
sends us 2/- in stamps and 4
Robur Guarantee Tickets.
We refer to the ticket which we
put in each package of Robur,
which guarantees full weight
and purity. The following
address will find us :
The ROBUR TEA CO.,
Melbourne.
P.S. —The No. 1 Grade Robur
is splendid tea—nice flavor
—very strong—very full
of fine quality.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 12, 1909.
My Dear Arini, —
~Af oo ’ B,l «kase has gone forth, and lo ! if Lady
Dudley can help it there is to he no more
Kitchen lancing in the dancing halls of our
People. The staid consort of the potentate
tor whose possession State Premiers, A.N.A.
officials and the like wrestle with such dodged
energy, has expressed her dislike of romping
amongst society grown-ups, and urged that it
shall cease. As a matter of fact, ball-room
boisterousness has been a wilted fashion
m the head - quarters of etiquette for
some years. The “kitchen” lancer habit and
its accompanying uproariousness came into vogue
a little over a decade ago. A gentle, peaceable
class was maligned when the new fashion was
baptised. The noise and rush and violence of it
was not borrowed from the silent and depressed
regions where the cockroach lies down with the
lamb, and meets, all too often, a painful end in a
cauldron of boiling soup as a result. On the con-
trary, it originated at the various joyous London
haunts—now closed by a Puritanical body of police
—where most of the gilded, and a few of the silver-
plated youth of London used to repair after
supper at the Savoy or Carlton. I have it on the
authority of an unregenerate male relative, who
has personal experience to back up his words,
that at these resorts—the lineal descendants of
Gremorne and Vauxhall Gardens—the lancers
took on the semblance of a Broken Hill riot. The
male participants were Debrett inmates for the
most part, and through their agency the new con-
vention filtered to private entertainments of an
elevated social order. Your “ Akenehi ” remem-
bers hearing about a “small dance” in London
some years ago. A band of Bachelors’ clubites (who
are among the “smartest” of London clubites)
was there. When the cotillon foolishnesses were
carried in the somewhat vinous glee of the
young men passed all bounds. An aged butler,
whose silvern locks and stern, judicial bearing
would have surely rendered him immune from
insults in the lowest class of suburban council
chamber hereabouts, was propelled through the
ball-room doorway clinging frantically to the
remains of a huge Chinese umbrella. Howls of
approval greeted his advent, and more howls fol-
lowed behind him. No one minded. The excel-
lence of the “rag” condoned the damage to
property and butler. But this sort of revelry has
been relegated long since to fashion’s scrap-heap.
It is a belated and undesirable survival locally—
like such remnants of Freetrade as still remain
unburied. The up-to-date smart-setter diets,
drinks mineral waters, endures the simple life,
and (in public) looks down his or her nose with
much demureness.
It was a kindly and tactful act on Lady Dud-
ley’s part to give the local society-climber a hint
m the above regard. Failing some such move on
our Governess’s part, the first of our leading social
lights who repaired to London would, as like as
not, have been arrested at the initial party he or
she attended for maniacal behavior and conduct
calculated to provoke a breach of the peace.
There are few things that pain and embarrass the
society-climber more than to be arrested at parties
for maniacal behavior.
There are few persons of any real importance in
Sydney just now. That is to say, all the people
who don’t work have fled from it. The wronged
old city is making a frantic effort to look like
London in August, or Paris in July. Excepting
that the weekly list of motor casualties has shrunk
to a paltry size, I can’t detect any marked difference
in the topography of the place myself; but that
disability I attribute frankly to my own obtuse-
ness. Most of the departed pervade the neighbor-
hood of Moss Vale and Burradoo. They are there
for the Bong Bong races. The Bong Bong races
follow upon the Tirranna races. Everybody turns
up at Bong Bong, and nearly Everybody puts in
an appearance at Tirranna. At both meetings
amateur riders whirl through clouds of dust and
locusts aboard alleged “ grass-fedders ” and other
equine mysteries. They do this sort of thing for
trivial prizes. Society stands by a more or less
white rail, grilling briskly, and making remarks
designed to show a comprehension of the business
that is in train. More often than not it fails,
herein, very miserably, and so lays itself open
to the shafts of the knowledgable country
yokel who invariably happens to be adjacent
on such occasions. As the landscape settles down
after the jockey’s ultimate dust-bath, Society
murmurs “Thank God!” with peculiar fervor,
shakes (if it is a female) 27 dead locusts out of its
underskirts, and drives home. A dance follows
at .the local town hall or barn, and so home to
seek out a remedy for a sun-peeled nose.
Leura, the Tom Knox’s fine place on Bellevue
Hill, caught fire about midday on Sunday, and
within half-an-hour was blazing to the heavens
like dry sugarcane. It is a two-storey house. The
top floor was utterly ruined, and the ground
floor, and the furniture and effects thereon suf-
fered considerably from the breaking of the
drought that was proceeding above. It is becom-
ing a very fashionable thing to have your house
burned down. In the Cold Country an
ancestral pile is destroyed in this' way
every week or so. To do the thing really
properly the Knoxes should have had a lnuse-
party staying with them when the fire-fiend called.
The men of the party would then have dashed at
the fiend with buckets and things, while the women
played garden hoses and squirts on him. Later all
would have been photographed; and a heroic
group, with its perfectly-built clothes and
noble features grotesquely blackened, would
have been available for the illustrated papers.
Pity the Governor-General and his family
were in another State. The fire-subduing
proclivities of Lord Dudley and his spouse are
well known. Under the new regime at Federal
Government House the home-bred nobility feels
that, if its property is to be eaten up by flames, it
(the nobility) has at least the right to expect the
kudos of having’ a Governor charging to the rescue
with a fire-bucket.
Mr. R. S. Haynes, K.C. (“Dicky” to everyone
m Westralia), is at present beaming upon Sydney.
He comes to take home his new bride after leaving
his two daughters at the Rose Bay Convent. The
remarkable resemblance between “Dicky” and
his brother John of the city is—well, it is remark-
able.
■^ us^ra^an Mutual Provident Teeces (Mr.
and Mrs.) are back from their European trip, and
in response to an interview, Mr. has been giving
dear old English methods of business all that is
coming to them in the way of criticism. Dr. Dill
Macky is another returned commentator. The
Cornishes (Mr., Mrs., and Miss), of this city, are
by a motor car, and the Taxa-
tion bpillers—the daughter “came out” at the
Austral Club Ball in London—are other homers.
The Jack Londons are making good with the
people they meet. Mrs. Jack is summed up as a
good sport. She and her novelist went to Bondi
Beach, were welcomed by the Mayor of Waverley
and two life-saving clubs, and then went a-swim-
rmng with the clubites. London’s contributions
to the Sydney Press make very poor reading, but
he knows it as well as the readers and admits “ I
am not a journalist.”
M.rs. Zeb. Lane and one of her younger sons
are in Sydney after travel in far lands. They did
the trans-Siberian railway journey in 10 days and
a bit, and show no signs of the journey having
done them. Mrs. Zeb. has fountain-penned her
travel notes, and if she has written as successfully
as she wears her Directoire gowns the screed
ought to be worth reading.
Maurice Nelson Hood, brother of an A.D.C.
well-known in Australia, is the latest peer’s son
to marry an actress. Mrs. Hood was Miss Eileen
Orme, a less-known sister of the famous Denise.
Mrs. Havilah White’s huge brick edifice of 40
suites or flats now scowls, fully-finished, on the
water’s marge at Kirribilli Point, on the western
side of Admiralty House. If you take a flat there
you may run your motor launch or other craft
under the archway, step into a lift, and be hoisted
to your apartments. It is not necessary for you
to troll out Venetian boat songs as you glide under
the archway, though such a proceeding lends an
air of picturesqueness to your arrival, and is com-
mendable in every way. Two wool-buyers have
taken lairs in the building, and that’s a start for it.
Minister for Works Lee’s youngest daughter,
Emily Mabel, joined the firm of Orange Blossom
and Co. last week. The co. is Mr. Harold Car-
stairs, of Grafton.
These things should have been given unto you
in last Letter, for they were written on the 2nd of
January, but I could not find Norman Lindsay in
time to limn my Soul for you :
I awoke on New Year’s Morning- to see my Soul perched
on the footrail of my bed. Its jaw was squared, its
mouth set, its eyesdominant, and its halo, freshly polished
as with celestial plate powder, was worn with austere
precision.
“ Are you going- to bolt again ?” I asked.
“No,” it replied, “lam making good resolutions for
us. You can’t deny that we are lazy.”
I wouldn’t deny it.
“ Well, we are going to reform. We’ll begin a habit of
early-rising. It is six now, and we’ll get up in half an
hour. For the past year we have been late for breakfast,
for lunch, for dinner. In future we’ll be in time. After
breakfast you will restore order to that little room in
which we write. It has not been tidied since 1907, and
then we didn’t do it. This morning I looked in there,
and nearly got my wings broken under an avalanche of
falling books, music, photographs, and old hats. There
MY SOUL.
Making its New Year's
good resolution,.
Breaking the same , and
gone on a spiritual hurst.
isn’t a foot of the floor space thatisn’tlittered with things
that ought to be somewhere else, or nowhere at all. The
pigeon-hole marked ‘ Receipts ’ has half a pot—an open
one—of honey in it, and ”•
“I'll have it for breakfast.”
“ There’s a mouse in the honey. From obvious indica-
tions I should say he has been there some weeks. The
pigeon-hole marked ‘ Private Letters ’ contains a box of
hair-pins, a velvet dog, a string of sea-shells, a photo-
graph of a python, a dried fern, and a bottle of some-
thing marked ‘pour les ongles.’”
“0, is that where I left it! You are a Skylark
Holmes.”
My Soul put the tips of its wings to its halo to feel if
it were straight and proceeded with my indictment.
“On the desk itself is a pile of papers, and keeping
them down a bronze Buddha, a mandolin and a pair of
goloshes. When we have reduced the disorder of the
room we will do literary work. After lunch—we will be
in time for lunch and not loiter over it—we will do some
serious reading for an hour, and then more work until
dinner. We will be punctual at dinner. Afterwards we
will go to Mrs. Strauss’s At Home. The finest minds in
Sydney are to be met at her house. There is no
‘ fluff ’on the minds of her associates. Neither do they
talk ‘guff.’ We will close the first day of the new year
with an entry in our diary for 1909. Our last year’s diary
contained no entry for seven months ! ”
“ Well, I suppose nothing worth recording happened
in those seven months.”
“ The last entry was ‘ Toby lost. Advertised for him
in three papers. He returned with a can at his tail.’
Something as well worth recording as that must have
happened.”
My Soul vanished back to me from the bedrail, and with
a sense of spiritual exultation I began to dress.
Heard voices in the back garden, and, huddling myself
into a wrapper, I ran out. Two small boys were up in a
big old pear tree catching orchestral locusts. A third
boy, receiver of stolen cicada, fled at my approach. The
pair of treed boys began to whimper, and one of them
had got some portion of his garments caught and could
not descend. I put a stepladder against the bole of the
tree, and would have gone up to help him (for the rest of
the tree was as easy as a stair to climb), and all would
have been well if Toby hadn’t dashed up ahead of me.
Toby is an agile collie, and the only dog I know who goes
in for tree-climbing as a sport on his own. He wouldn’t
bite anything he didn’t mean to eat, but the boys didn’t
know that, and his joyous bark is very resonant.
Whimpers broke into howls of terror, and the third
small boy fled back to the mean street where they three
lived and told two mothers that their offspring had been
driven up a tree, and were being torn limb from limb by
an angry female and her savage dog. The mothers
arrived. ... The period of their sojourn on my premises
is best described with asterisks.
I was late for breakfast, and I did loiter over it, because
my nerves were unstrung by the language of the invad-
ing maternals. I started on the room-straightening by
sitting down and looking at Buddha. He was so peaceful,
with his enigmatical smile and his crossed knees and up-
turned palm laid on upturned palm. He seemed to dope
me, and presently I got a grain of rice and put it in his
palm and told him he could have another when he’d eaten
that, and I stuck a nasturtium in the bend of his elbow
and meditated on him some more.
Someone summoned me to lunch just as I was remov-
ing the pot of honey and the mouse. There was no time
to do more. In the afternoon, just as I was settling
down to write, the fire-bells rang, and I was told that
the house of a friend was on fire. I hurried smoke-
ward and saw a fine bush fire and met some
pals who were going swimming. I joined them, and put up
my fins in the baths until the sun rays lay level on the
water. I was late for dinner, and so tired by the long
afternoon amongst the jelly-fish that I fell upon a couch
and slept until a rustling sound awoke me. My Soul was
just about to fly through the open window out into the
starlight. Its mouth was curled up at the corners in a
scallywaggish smile, one eye was closed impishly, the
other impishly open ; in its mouth was a cigarette, and it
was striking a match on its disarranged halo. And
January 2 had not yet dawned.
It seems a pity that the late John F. Sheridan
didn’t live long enough to play one more female
character—that of Mercia, in ‘‘The Sign of the
Cross.” Mercia, done on straight Widow O’Brien
lines, would be a powerful character in Roman-
Irish drama. One can imagine her in a turban
and a green dress and a brogue fleeing, with
strong protests, from Julius Superbus till she ran
against the cross—about a hundred weight of timber
—standing in a corner of the room. Then she
would turn on Julius with the weapon heaved
aloft and say, “ Another fut and I brain you, ye
Latin fraud in the short shirt ! ” And then there
would be Bridget going philosophically to the
lions with the remark, in good Connaught ac-
cents : “Well, there’ll be one lion wid a bad
shtomacli-ache to-night, anyway.” But the widow
Bridget of the first century wouldn’t be cap-
tured by the Roman soldiery without a fight, and
when she smote the legions with a yard of stout
firewood she would at least inspire a deep respect
for the church militant, and there would be much
nose-blood shed in Rome before the secular arm
got Mercia down and contrived to get a word in
edgeways to ask her what she meant by it. And
Mrs. John F. Sheridan in skirts before Nero,
frankly telling that potentate what she thought
of him, would be something to be remembered.
Here is some news from Kate Rooney about
certain Australian singers in the Bull-Fog Land :
I leave here in July, and expect to begin with concerts
in Sydney, then start for the country towns out on the
Western line, which is my own particular happy hunting
ground—l was born at Dubbo. We shall go on as far as
Bourke and Oobar, and afterwards take all the other lines
in succession. I am engaged to sing at Woolwich (two
concerts) this evening and at Queen’s Hall to-morrow
(Sat., Dec. 6) with Robert Radford and Alice Esty (who
was with Alec Marsh in Australia, years ago). At the
Woolwich concerts to-night Amy Simpson (who was
“Daddy” Hallewell’s pupil in Sydney) is the soprano.
Another Australian at Albert Hall (Scotch
festival) Monday last was Stanley Newman,
of Adelaide, who has a beautiful quality of
baritone and sings well. He is studying
with Watkin Mills (also on the programme).
At the London Choral Society’s performance
of “Samson and Delilah,” at Queen’s Hall
the other night, Peter Dawson (Adelaide basso)
gave a fine reading of the bass music, and
displayed a rich, full quality of voice with
very low range. He is certainly one of the
coming oratorio singers, and will take a high
place in the English concert world. Already
he has secured a position as one of the most
popular singers before the public. Mary Conly,
the brilliant Melbourne soprano, holds a high place
among the Australian singers in England, and has great
prestige as an oratorio soprano.
Three new baritones are looking for places in
the local nest of singing birds—Appleby, who has
been in Msynell and Gunn’s aviary ; and Darvel
•and Aulsebrook. All three have already acquired
some fame and some coin in foreign parts.
Miss Ella Caspers, whose contralto, according
to divers authorities, is the best yet produced in
this State, has made a wise choice, and accepted
a counsel of perfection in foregoing a farewell
benefit concert and accepting instead a subscrip-
tion presentation. A concert couldn’t be engin-
eered under a bill of costs of £5O, and that £5O the
gifted youngster will have to put in her wallet—
when it comes in, of course, for the subscription
lists have only just been opened. Cash outpour-
ings may be sent to Mrs. (Dr.) Maguire, of Neutral
Bay ; Miss Blanche d’Alpuget, of Ocean-street,
Woollahra ;or Mr. Southwell, of Paling’s. If you
want to be on the safe side send a subscription to
all three.
The 11.20 p.m. Mosman boat is now tlieboat with
the Precious Freight. It has taken on glamor,
and interest lies round it like music round the shell
since Julius came to live on the peninsula known
as Musgrave-street. The Great Mime is often
accompanied by a small mime from his company
—a placid-looking young giant named Collman,
who hails from about where the Federal capital
ought to have been. A long array of steps leads
to the House of Julius, and he must be greatly
tempted on a bright morning to pause midway in
the descent, and give the ferry-farers a treat with
a Claudian or Superbus attitude. Julius ought
certainly to come down those stairs in Roman
costume. When he struck his attitude, Collman
could pause a step or so below, and be a varlet, a
minion, or a myrmidon or alictor, or just a bloque
—and so finish the picture.
Already the directoire gown is a thing of the
past in the city of its origin. Still, in Yass and
other improbable spots brides are paragraphed as
having worn at the sacrifice “ a beautiful direc-
toire confection and Merry Widow hat.” But
the travelling Parisian, standing, local paper in
hand, on the ruins of the Cotter bridge and gaz-
ing on the willy-willy raging in the bed of the
“creek” at his feet, ponders on the phrase and
fails to resolve what it is all about. The sheath
mode received a severe upper-cut shortly after
it entered fashion’s ring, owing to the bur-
lesque of it that some daring Parisian man-
nequins gave last year on the Long champs
pesage. It will be remembered that the police
interfered on this occasion in the first round, as
it were, muttering the while through their
clenched whiskers the words “ degrading spec-
tacle,” “un-English,” and “shocking.” Their
action robbed the style of its “punch”; it
weakened palpably ; and is now down and “out.”
To-day the chic Frenchwoman is wearing, accord-
ing to her native press, a waistless gown. It is an
ideal costume for the very fat. No corset is needed
with it—only a “ceinture,” or narrow belt; and
no one complains or knows if the “ceinture” is
left at home on father’s bust in the hall. Some
slight idea of the effect of the new mode may
be gleaned by a visit to the La Perouse
encampment; but the fashion leaders there are by
no means so elaborate in the matter of dress as
are their Parisian sisters. An essential adjunct
to the waistless garb is an “aumoniere” or
“alms bag.” The “aumonibre” is shaped like an
outsize bishop’s mitre, and is suspended from the
neighborhood of the place the “ ceinture ” occu-
pies, if it (the “ceinture”) happens to be there.
A rule of the game is that the “aumoniere ” shall
be well and permanently charged with the dross
that is at the root of all evil, new hats and dia-
monds. The replenishing of the “aumoniere”
is the privilege of the wearer’s nearest male
friend.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
•‘Let her not walk in the sun," was
Hamlet’s advice to Ophelia. This shows that Hamlet
knew that the sun had power to mar the beauty of
women. But, in these enlightened days, women can
afford to laugh at the wisdom of the Prince of Denmark,
even as she can snap her fingers at the sun, the great
enemy of the complexion. With impunity she may golf
and motor, hunt and frolic in the surf, knowing full well
that Valaze, the marvellous skin food, will put to rout
every freckle, dispel sunburn, tan and sallowness, and
restore clearness and whiteness to the skin. 3s. 6d.,
6s. 6d., and 6d. postage. Novena Sunproof Oreme pre-
vents, as Valaze removes, freckles, tan and sunburn. It
is a positive safeguard for the skin against the action of
the sun’s rays. 2s. and 3s. 6d. All chemists, or direct
from Helena Rubinstein and Co., Valaze Massage In-
stitute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney, 274 Collins Street,
Melbourne.* [i


« Razor, Sir ? ” » Yes, fl METROPOLE.”
To l>e bad only at Hotel Metropole Hairdress-
ingr Saloon. Price 10/6 ; Pair in Case, 21/-,
Metropole Strop, 7/6 (all guaranteed) post
free. Gentlemen visiting town can be made
i look toney in the above saloon. Facial Massage
a speciality. C. P. MOORE,
duii ■ ip STREET. SYDNEY.
fsd
WE SUPPLY EVERY
CINEMATOGRAPH WANT.
&
We stock everything from the simplest
accessory to complete machines and new
films. Over 250,000 feet of pictures on
hand for either sale or hire, and many
more arriving daily.
We give entertainments, employ com-
petent operators for emergencies, and
make SPECIAL FILMS to your order.
EDISON’S
CINEMA TOGRAPH,
£32 lOs.
ONE OF THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.
Least Trouble and Expense. No Flicker.
Call on us, and see what we can do for you.
-s n a tat 9C' (formerly Osborn fit Jerdan),
JKK D AIN O “MY OPTICIANS,”
Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
JUST
PUBLISHED.
LONELY LANDS.
THROUGH THE HEART OF AUSTRALIA, by
FRAHSIS E. BIRTLES. With Map and 84 Illus-
“price 3/6. Post Free 3/11.
Beinsr ..count oi a bicycle rid. toon, Sydney nSS
and Victoria. Everyone should read E 'B Sen? Roosevelt advised
Territory, which part* »» ul««t
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., 476 George Street, Sydney, and all Branches.
51- Worth POST CARDS for 1/- Post Free, 1/3.
co-daj. W . . -j/_ xhe biggest bargain ever offered. Cheaper and superior to
stationery * Will give you satisfaction or return you the money. Every day we are mailing
repeat orders. Send your order to-day, direct to us and save money.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO., Dept. B.
Post Card Publishers and Importers,
192-194 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Subdivision of 6,000 Acres
The Property of J. H. FOX, Esq.
Dugandan Estate
AND HOMESTEAD (Qdbenbland)
Within a mile of Boonah Railway Station and Township,
59 miles from Brisbane, on the Fassifern Railway Line.
« „,C Dairy, ■.«c.™. i scru» "Vo'oS.h ** "* “ ,d
MONDAY, FEBRUARY Bth, 1909,
at 2.30
o’clock
GRAND TERMS
20 YE ft \ RS 5%
One Tenth Deposit ana
NO Payments of Principal
for 2 years from date of Sale
The Dugandan Estate consists of Rich Alluvial Lucerne Plats on
Teviot Brook and other creeks, with absolutely permanent water,
and all grades of Black, Brown, Red and Chocolate Soils. A large
area of newly felled scrub is included, and this, together with most
of the flats, has been planted with Paspalum.
SPECIAL ATTRACTION'S
Charming Homestead with 650 Acres ; an improved Dairy Farm in
full profit; several blocks at present under cultivation ; Good Rail-
way facilities; proximity to market; large Co-operative Butter
Factory at Boonah ; abundant Rainfall (37 in. per annum); estab-
lished Township with 2 Banks, School, Hospital, Ac.; No Survey
Fees or Compulsory Residence clause; Light Clearing and plenty
of Fencing Material; Typical Luoerne Flats ; Rich Scrub Farms
(Dartlv improved); Well Sheltered Ridges; Liberal Options, Large and Small Areas; Large Areas
under Paspalum. Every facility for inspection.
hpwotaTi NOTE From the Government Statistics the Dugandan District ranks THIRD in
SPECI Agricultural and Dairy Products. Write to-day for illustrated Plan.
ISLES, LOVE & GO., Auctioneers, Queen St., Brisbane, Q.
<•
■
If yo\i are
thirsty
try a j
glass
0$
4
&
of
LIME
* JUICE.
*« MONTSERRAT”
Lime Jtiice
Is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste- Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
HADE IN TWO KINDS -
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened Lime Juice CordiaL
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
The
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Cutting the Chaff ■
4/, * /// " '\'V' \
"-' — 1
r*# „ , • ‘V 1 "- S
// / » *■ •’! S *«\ . ■'^ s ' l
?/,! ;/ n . Mi.n'.•<
, ,
22
/f/Anl(b,l!/KS+
MJNM
m
VS
£>
i§\
gg
i
I.H.C.
*P>
*3
/
Chaff-cutting is accomplished most easily,
effectively, and economically, by driving the
cutter with an “1.H.C.” Gasolene Engine.
With an “I.H.C” Engine you start work when YOU are ready—doing
the starting inside thirty seconds. rN rTNF is
With steam or a kerosene-burning engine you start work when the ENGINE is
ready, after having waited for steam or heating up.
When uou wish to stop cutting for ten minutes or so—as you frequently do
during a day’s work -if you are using one of the slow-starting types you throw the
belt out of gear and LET THE ENGINE RUN IDL . . ,
With the “Ever-Ready” Quick-Starting “1.H.C.” you simply stop the Engine and
ALL FUEL CONSUMPTION CEASES IMMEDIATELY.
The “1.H.C.” thus pays you full value in ACTUAL WORK for every drop o
The slow-starting engine makes you pay good money TO KEEP IT LOAFING.
A steam or kerosene-burning engine means smoke, cinders, or dame in the vicinity
of your haystack.
An “1.H.C.” means the entire absence of all three.
Ten minutes’ attention in every four hours given by a boy to startings, stoppages,
and oiling is more than an "I.H.C.’’ Engine requires.
Our Extraordinary Special Offer has .been recehved so fdVouraMy that we have
decided to keep it open for orders booked up to, but POSITIVELY not later than
February 28th, 1909.
If uou are interested in obtaining power in Stationary, Portable, Traction or
Hoisting"types of Engines, on the MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS ever offered to
Engine buyers, write now for full particulars to
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
x Roma St., Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke St., Melbourne. Bank St., Adelaide.
*' 75 York St., Launceston.
GEORGE WILLS & CO., Perth,
General Agents for Western Australia.
(256)
f
rX
1
A
A
%
/?
V
8
vm


ETA I IPPPIQ
PHOSPHATINE FOOD
Bone and tissue forming makes sound
bodies and active brains. Your child
will have good health and a sturdy
frame if fed on Faliere’s Food. It
contains in a form easily assimilated
all the elements necessary for an
ideal food. Sample tins free from
Joubert & Joubert, 552 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, or Claud Healy, 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
FOR CHILDREN
AND INVALIDS.
[i
i
OEND us the name of a leading* Draper in your
district who does not sell Carlson Currier
Sewing* and Embroidery Silks, and we will forward
you by return mail our illustrated book, “ Embroid-
ery , Art ’” beautiful reproductions of Art
Needlework, with instructions how to obtain these
results with your own fingers. Carlson Currier
Silks, lusciously beautiful, the color shades grad-
ing from palest to deepest tints. CARLSON CURRIER
CO. (of San Francisco), The Block, Melbourne. [2.
Dunlop
Hose
/
wC\
nr*
o®o
Gives Excellent
Service
Does not burst & lasts/oryears
Made by Austral idovs To staad
Austrevli&a Coadition.?.
• SPECIFY DUNLOP BRAND •
TKc Dualop Rubber Co. of Aus Ltd
ALL STATES-
\ -
Outwear
All
Others.
m.
Only Accept
Ounlop
.
A
,
T\im<*
S^rV'p.
nothing like\
our soft Para Rubber Dunlop
Heels for Comfort, Wear
and Finish. They absorb all
jarring, and outwear several
pairs of leather heels.
Bnable in various shapes* and
i from all leading Stores. But j
get Best Results you must I
iccify “ DUNLOP*' Strand. f
ER HEELS
OUNLOP RUBBER COJ^
M.lDOurn., Sydney
VISITORS TO LONDON
CLEVELAND COURT, corner Cleveland Square and
Leinster Cardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Healthiest part, West End. Up-to-date, luxurious,
private Hotel. Inclusive terms from two guineas weekly.
KANDY
KOOLA
TEA
‘The best i* the country-
side, i* faitb.**
R
k
YOUR
EARLY
CUP
Sold, by- all Grocers in Red, 1 title* and Green Packets.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
~ T'* „ Melbourne, January 11, 1909.
My Dear Yarrie,—
into the first match of the season
at the Kooyong ground, Caulfield, on Saturday
afternoon. A smattering of the few Exalted
Unes who are still in the city motored along and
sat on backless seats on the lawn for two or three
hours, and watched the exciting, perspiring polo
perscms and their ponies. Lord Dudley, in a
su V\ T ? nd a S en ial mood, buzzed out with
Colonel Wallack and Mr. Secretary Callan. The
little countess was ill and has been for a
week or more, but another batch of the
Crey House party came a-horseback. Lord
v lO j ’ , an< i lank and bespurred, cava-
liered the youngest Dudley daughter, and
JVlrs. Hore-Ruthven. Mrs. “ Haw-Rivven 99 is a
new arrival in Melbourne—a sister-in-law of the
pretty Irish wife of the aide-de-camp who has been
installed since the earliest date of the Dudley in-
vasion. The new Mrs. Haw-Rivven is a young,
very young, widow. She is a mere girl; her hus-
band, Captain Hore-Ruthven, died a few months
after their marriage. Her widowed dark eyes
mi? 1 l k ? I J r bo do some damage wherever she is.
The Widow and the youthful Lady Morbythe
Ward were togged in ultra-smart riding gear.
Each wore a shortish sheath riding skirt,
slit right up the side in pure directoire style, and
showing corduroy undergear as undisguised as any
man’s riding breeks. The widow wore black
boots and grey puttees, and rather slender legs
showing from the divide of her grey tweed; but
the Dudley daughter, in brown cloth, roused my
soul to envy by the cut of her riding boots. They
were dark and tan and loose and long, and came
as far above her shapely knees as a fisher-
man’s waders, with just the cutest red tag
showing against her well-filled trousers. A
little brown felt hat, pulled down over
her brown curls and brown eyes, gave her a cuter
look than any of her muslin dresses and hair bows
have glimpsed heretofore.
The riding party was going on to “the
Kennels” after the match. “We sent out a
hound, don’t-y’-know, two years ago,” remarked
Lord Dicky, “and we’re goin’ along to see how
its growin’.” One of the party was riding
Revenue—the once famous Cup horse—and it was
arching its dapple neck and strutting round the
carriage-paddock for all the photo-fiends to view.
The Club gave the Guv’ment House party a
pavilion to sit under, and swathed the backless
seat in a Union Jack. It suggested a cheerful
funeral at sea. Mrs. J. C. Williamson, just
arrived from Sydney, came out in the First Taxi-
Cab, with Mrs. Reid and Miss Stone. Mrs. J. P.
Ryan, in lace and purple and with her tall hus-
band, hosted the tea-table after the second
“ chucker ” (which in less exalted language means
about half-time), and Mrs. Alister Clarke seconded
the billy-boiling. Mrs. Dane and her doctor hus-
band came along with one of the Thornton
sisters. Everybody seemed to be just returned
or just going from or to some far land. The
P. S. Grimwades came over from their big house
at the corner. They are just back from England.
In fact, Mr. F. S. Grimwade had not yet shaken
the packing crease of travelling from his frock
coat. Mrs. Grimwade drew the drapery of a
faultless black net dress over the grass, and
flimpsed a silk lining of the very newest of new
lues.
The players (quite a secondary consideration)
were Camperdown and Melbourne. Camperdown
usually beats Melbourne, but this time Melbourne
had it all its own scarlet way over the black-and-
white beetle-looking Camperdownians. Some of
the ponies were new and some were lent, and
there was consequent argument between them
and their strange riders. I learnt curious things
over the fence when the ponies’ “socks”
were being fixed. One pony was hard
in the mouth, but “not half bad on the
gay snaffle .” Someone was riding “ Brand’s
horse.” Brand was a former in guber-
natorial circles who played polo with Indian vim.
His language was always so lurid in a “scrum ”
that he had to be stationed on the far side of the
paddock—whence only a warm whisper reached
the watching ladies. A jolly little grey
pony showed just what a polo pony can do. It has
been 25 years at the game, and reminded one of
Kipling’s Maltese Cat. When the other excitable
ponies put every ounce of gallop into a useless
scrum, this grey dallied languidly in the rear.
But with a real chance of a goal and a clear
run, up came this Australian Oat like
greased lightning, and, wheeling, watched the
ball sideways like a human. A small black pony,
with youth and speed like the wind, tried to tire
the old grey, but its thinking powers were a minus
quantity in comparison. The grey came up short
of its own accord to wheel after a ball—it saw.
The black had to be checked by a mouth-sawing
that almost cost its rider a smashed collar-bone.
Smashed collar-bones in polo are almost as plenti-
ful as goals.
The Dudley Governor and his gentlemen-at-
elbows dropped regulation gear and the unholy
grey pot hat for Flemington and the New Year
meeting, and substituted the jolly old comfort of
sac suits and squashy felts. Therefore do the
people who worship that great tin god, the Cor-
rect Thing, rejoice muchly. They would rather
have perished in their plug hats than have done
other than what the Governor-General did, and
some of them have suffered greatly in consequence.
Murray Morton, the apple-cheeked dandy saw-
bones, has sold his fat practice at Richmond and
booked for the Bull-Fog country. His smart
little wife and his only posterity go with him.
He hopes to return after twelve months spent in
the search for science, and nail his door-plate under
the shadow of the elms at the top of Collins-street.
Another surgeon, Neil Crowley, has returned
from the Big Smoke, bringing a collection of the
latest in X-rays, and has screwed on his plate
among the exalted. Both Mr. Crowley and his
neighbor, Dr. Balter, are good-looking and
moneyed bachelors, so their girl friends are like
patients on a monument, hoping for the best.
There is a bassinette with a dove and much
flummery and excitement, also a Baby, at a South
Yarra home. Frankie Oliver, one of Melbourne’s
pace-making society girls, who took unto herself
the wealthy Stuart-Murray to husband, has con-
descended to add to the country’s census.
Many dwellers “ on the land ” are interested in
the recent arrival of two commercial visitors from
London. Mr. Peter B. Burgoyne and his son
Alan landed at Adelaide last week, and for the
next month or two they will be looking up the vine-
yardists of the three wine-growing States —S.A.,
Vic., and N.S.W. Their intention is to visit
every vineyard they know of where the where-
withal of Australian Burgundy and other Bur-
goynic tipple hangs in ripening clusters. If there
are any places they don’t yet know of, a note of
information to the firm’s office in Melbourne will
direct their journeyings thither. Mr. P. 8.8., as
everybody knows, is the father of what is now the
popular dinner-wine in the Cold Country, and the
originator of the neat, flat-sided jar that adver-
tises this country abroad. His son Alan has poli-
tical aspirations outside of the business, and was
nearly successful in getting returned to the House
of Commons as a Chamberlainite at the last
general election. The young man is understood
to be a matter of matrimonial possibility for the
Australian Girl.
A reminder of Mrs. Phillips Fox (Ethel Car-
rick) came to one of her Melbourne friends the
other week in book form. It was a copy of “ The
Muse in Motley ” —published in England by Mrs.
Fox’s brother, Hartley Carrick. The brother is
a professor of medical architecture, or something,
at Cambridge, and his verses are as bright,
sketchy, and flippant as his sister’s paintings in
oils. Many of them are topical outcomes of his
undergraduate days, and the worst that can be
said of them is suggested in a pedantic “ foreword ”
by A. T. Quiller-Couch, and in a note by the
author. From the author’s note it appears that
some of his jingles are republished from London
Punch. Poor old Punch ! Londoners tell us
that there are no longer any private in-
dividual purchasers of the threepenny paper.
Shops have ceased to order it, and even the rail-
way bookstall boy starts in surprise when an in-
quiry is made for Punch ! But it goes in
thousands, as a matter of custom, to thousands of
hotels, clubs, and libraries all over Britain.
Mr. Coppin, a lonely survivor of the cultured
theatrical family, has been appointed judge of the
A.N.A. competitions, the gigantic octopus that
throws its tentacles round every aspiring genius
in the Commonwealth. It is the first time the
competitions have had a real live actor as well as
an elocutionist to give points. Coppin is a finished
Shakspearian mummer and belongs to a school of
Bard-translation that is fast dying out.
The sister of the lady of the Divorce Case is
back in Melbourne, and trips round clad in purple
and fine linen. The purple is tailor-made and
from Bond-street. She and her hubby play a most
protestful game of bill-and-coo, perhaps to pre-
vent disconcerting mistakes. A relative and his
birdie are now suing for the popular parting.
Miss Jessie Campbell, one of the Scotch-Aus-
tralian daughters of the late James Campbell, a
hard-working member of the House in his day and
a prominent philanthropist, was married on Janu-
ary 5. The captive was Mr. Charles Brown,
and he assumed the manacles at St. Andrew’s,
Brighton. This wedding was strongly backed up
by Crowther. The breakfast was in the learned
Dr. Crowther’s dining-room, and Mr. Odel Crow-
ther gave his moral support to the bridegroom.
Ada Cambridge (Mrs. Cross), the Australian
novelist, has just got back from England with her
reverend husband. She is being welcomed in a
most strenuous manner for such a hot season.
The Writers’ Club is simmering over quite a big
blow-out which it means to give the lady, and the
corned beef is already boiling for the banquet.
Ada. and her husband have returned to the
Williamstown rectory.
A friend writes from London to state that Bull-
opolis swarms at present with Australian judges’
families. They’re everywhere—the A’Becketts,
theChomleys, the Gaunts, the Hoods, the Hartley-
Williams, and the Hickman-Molesworths. Mrs.
Hickman is piloting her three clever daughters
everywhere. Elaine, the eldest (Mrs. Walker), is
on a holiday from the land of jungle, and has left
her Colonel husband to defend himself single-
handed against the up-rising of Ram Chunder.
Yet another member of a judicial clan went
England wards last week—Mrs. Clifton Brown,
the elder of the two beautiful daughters of Justice
Hodges. Melbourne society saw little of its
former belle on this visit to Australia, for she
hardly left the bedside of her dying mother.
Mrs. Hodges, who made her niche in early
Victoria by her goodness and charity, was a sister
of Representative William Knox, of Broken Hill
and the “Knox Hat.”
One of Melbourne’s most elusive and fascinating-
bachelors has been caught and securely leg-
roped all in a winking. Mr. D. H. Ross, Canadian
Trade Commissioner at Melbourne, went off for a.
spell to Europe, apparently quite steel-proof
against matrimonial insinuation. He returned at
the end of last month, and was married at Fre-
mantle on New Year’s Day to an Elsternwick:
(Vic.) girl, Miss Blanche Candilini.
“Cabby” is getting painfully excited, and l
bursts into frenzied disputation. Taxi-cabs have-
arrived, and more are coming. Cabby asks with
bitterness if the gorgeous chauffeurs imported'
with them are to be treated as princes in disguise-
and given the “crown o’ the causie,” or are they
just ordinary human beings? “Once let one o’
them blessed shovers get to think he’s somebody
and there’ll be the devil to pay,” says cabby.
The last extraordinary freak of a Departmental,
head has broken out in the Education Depart-
ment. The State school-teachers have a school of
their own in the summer months, and attend lec-
tures and study for exams, and promotions and
other animals. Now the Quarantine Station hap-
pened to be empty—there wasn’t even a leper in
possession. The Department had an inspiration !!
There were wastes of dormitories and reading and
dining rooms and a most excellent acreage of
pleasure ground all going begging. So quite 250
teachers are now studying in quarantine, and in
their spare hours they go forth and consider the
plague-patient’s tomb and the place where the
smallpox was buried.
There is an absurd practice of bedecking babies
with bracelets. The original offenders were the
jewellers, who began to perpetrate bangles of in-
finitesimal size, to lure doting parents. Neverthe-
less, even the most insanely demoralised mother
should know better than to load her kid with the
goods. In a Toorakian tram I travelled with
three nurses and three infants. They were all
bedecked and befrilled; but one microscopical
piece of humanity, who only had months to count,
wore a brooch of turquoise and pearls, a pin with
a “ Baby’’-full of diamonds, a gold bangle on one
fat crease that might mean a wrist, and two silver
circlets jangling on the other. Then there was a
“pendant” and chain of gold and jewels about
baby’s neck. The only ornament lacking was a
nose-ring.
A suburban Dick Turpin has lately been shak-
ing things up in his fashionable circle. Being
the only boy in the family pantry he has been not
a little spoilt. For some time James was
very quiet, going off to school like Mary’s lamb
every day. All was well until the headmaster
called on James’s father, and wanted to know why
his worst pupil had left. For three weeks he had
not been near the school. Then things came out
—lots of things. A horse had been stolen from a
neighbor and dyed with Dolly dye, and a high-
toned polo match had been rudely disturbed
by the dyed steed surmounted by a yell-
ing young demon, who proved to be James.
Also James’s friends discovered a cave
hollowed out behind an old deserted house.
In the cavern was everything that had been
missed from the house for months —including
bottled beer and cigars, also a gun or two. (A
favorite game of the young hopeful was shooting
pins into dairy cows.) Also the cave was
stuffed with Deadwood Dicks. However, when
he had wept oil the maternal chest all was for-
James promised to go to boarding school,
and grow up to be a great man, like Tommy Bent,
ihey loaded him up with his kit on a dogcart.
1 a and ma were in front, and the future country-
saver occupied the back seat. How long he
remained there will never be known. For when
the school was reached James was not on the back
seat, and he has not been heard of since, though
his new cave is being anxiously inquired for.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
Some recent Bulletin pars seem bent on claiming our
o.A. girls for Westralia. Muriel Matters, a militant
suffragette in London, is of Adelaide by family, birth and
education ; she was a noted girl-elocutionist, and, of
course, may have taught the art in Perth on her way,
between leaving here and getting to England. Winifred
James, again, the author of “ Bachelor Betty,” was the
first to start a tea-room in Adelaide. It was considered a
daring venture then, but it has had many successful
imitations since, so S.A. has for Miss Winifred the rever-
ence due to a pioneer. She was the tea-room Columbus
of this city.
.The little Chief Justice has been once more duly sworn
to lieutenant-govern South Australia until further
notice. As soon as the deed was done he fled off to his
pet farm, Sea View, at Noarlunga, there to recuperate
among the frisking kine after the wear and tear of the
ceremony. You’ve no idea how being sworn in takes it
out of you. Being sworn at is quite a soft thing by com-
parison. b J
There has just passed out in Adelaide Mrs. Tom Brown,
wife of the owner of Nullarbor Station, which is away
over on the West Coast, 300 miles from anywhere. Mrs.
Brown was a popular dame, and the circumstances of her
death were sad. She came up from the station alone, a
fortnight ago, to undergo what she thought was a slight
operation. But the doctors found her already far too ill
for their surgery. Her husband and daughters were
telegraphed for, but they had 120 miles to drive and a
week s sea journey before they could reach town, so they
only arrived three days after the funeral. Before she
went out to the station she was for seven years a member
of that excellent philanthropy, the State Children’s
Council, and was interested in many other works of which
St. Peter keeps a record at the Gate.
Clara Kleinschmidt will take her voice to London on
February 4- Miss Waite, who is one of the damsels com-
mittee, goes with her, to see her safely to the foot of
Parnassus. She may even wait to give her a shove up, if
she seems to need shoving. Blower, who guided the
early warble of Clara Butt, will probably be the teacher'
of this second Clara, and letters are already littering the
little girl to introduce her to the musical panjandrums of
Europe.
Kiosks spring up about South Oss in a single night.
The Gardens have got ’em, and the Glenelg pier has got
em, and now a tourist kiosk is being planted at the Outer
Harbor. Here a wily diplomat will be enthroned to snare
the mailboat visitor and tell him not to go to Thebarton,.
but to take the first turning to the right and keep on into'
the hills we are so proud of. Also the diplomat is in-
structed to talk of the golden fleece and the vine and the 1
•corn if he gets any provocation at all. Twenty-thousand!
copies of a handbook all about ourselves have also just
been published ; and altogether we are struggling bravely
to keep our end out of the dust.
Nothing frequently happens in Adelaide ; at other times
we do go the pace. • The other night a policeman, wan-
dering harmlessly up a suburban road, was shot dead.
The people who did it are still paying for their victuals.
Next night somebody entered the Thebarton tramsheds
•and took £4O. Next night Trinity Church was burgled of
£lo—there they soaked the surplices and wrapped them
round the safe to deaden the sound of the explosion.
Next night the Oil Works yielded JBS, and the borrowing
has been going on nightly ever since.
Kangaroo Island lias attracted society in bulk again
this year. As for accommodation, it’s a thing of the dead
past. If you’re lucky you may get roof space, and a shop
•counter is considered a princely lodging. Yet it’s not sfcch
a fiercely exhilarating isle when all’s said and do*e.
Water is ever scarce in the land, and the local mosquito
is frequently shot by mistake for a vulture. Port Victor
the holiday resort of the peerage ever since William the
Conqueror came over to S. Aus., is green with jealousy
because of the sudden popularity of the neighboring isle
—-so green, in fact, that all Kidman’s cattle are making a
bolt in that direction. 6
S.A. has taken advantage of the absence
•of all Governors, Premiers, and such obstructions, and is
having high jinks on its own. A cool Christmas and New
Year cracked the record; then the temperature flew up
to 112 and broke it; and immediately the record dropped
with a thud to 70, and smashed itself so completely that
we re using it for ballast on our new tram-lines. You’ll
•observe that we mention our new tram-lines once at
least in every letter.
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J- C. WILLIAMSON.
ROYAL COMIO OPERA SEASON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
with appear in the Romantic Opera,
THE DUCHESS OE DANTZIC
Prices as Usual.
Plans at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney,
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
JULIUS KNIGHT DRAMATIC SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
Wilson Barrett’s Dramatic Masterpiece,
THE SIGN OE THE CKOSS.
SATURDAY NIGHT NEXT, JANUARY 16,
THE BREED OF THE TRESHAMS.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
THE LYCEUM
Sole Director ..
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of EDWIN GEACH’S COMPANY in
EAST LYNNE.
LAST 2 NIGHTS of the Enormously Successful
Pantomime of ROBINSON CRUSOE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JAN. 16, THE BROKEN HOME.
35., 25., & Is. POPULAR PRICES. Is., 25., & 3s.
Geo. Marlow, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: Mr. FRANK MUSGROVE.
Sub-Lessee and Manager : Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, including Australia’s Talented
Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN, in
THE GAYEST OE THE GAY.
SATURDAY EVENING, JAN. 16, MAN TO MAN.
Plan at Elvy’s. Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is.
HALL. SYDNEY.
C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s. 6d., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s,
jH E GLACIARIUM, SYDN E Y.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees, Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
“ Back to the Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is, & 6d Popular Prices. 6d, Is, & 2s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
AMALIA and LEONORA, Continental Equilibrists.
CRISTOFOLO, Equilibrist Juggler.
MACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Vocal Quartette.
GOODFELLOW & GREGSON. THE SISTERS RENO.
Mr. WILL HAINES. MISS NELLIE MAUNSELL.
MR. CHARLES FANING,
CHARLOTTA and FANING and FANING.
AND ALL OUR GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
PER A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE LATONAS, American Vaudeville Artists.
GEOFFREYS and BENSON, Sketch Artists.
GUEST and NEWLYN, Comedy Artists and Dancers.
PROFESSOR DUNCAN’S 10 PERFORMING COLLIE
DOGS.
THREE M’GREGORS, Musical Artists.
GEORGE SORLIE, Baton Spinner and Dancer.
Plan at Allan’s. 42T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. O. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING, at 7.45,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Oast includes BERT GILBERT, STELLA GASTELLE,
FANNY DANGO, J. M. CAMPBELL, HARRY SHINE,
and VICTOR LOYDALL.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
NQ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, FRIDAY, JANUARY 15,
LAST TWO Performances of UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 16,
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
the Great Railway Drama,
THE 10.30 DOWN EXPKESS.
K 1
Popular Prices.
Plan at Allan’s.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG OAST.
Prices —55., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES IHB
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
HE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
T
EVERY EVENING. Matinees Wednesdays & Saturday.
TAIT’S PICTURES.
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
OR HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
KALO DERMA
SOAP. JELLY. POWDER.
For the Complexion .
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
Denis donoyan and timothy dono-
VAN, “Goula, ” natives of Rosscarbery,
Co. Cork, Ireland, last heard of at Kimberley,
West Australia, about 20 years ago. Anybody
knowing their whereabouts please communicate
with JEREMIAH DONOVAN, 36 South Dela-
ware Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S. America,
or HERBERT Z. DEANE, Attorney, Clonakitty.
Catholic Papers and Magazines please copy.
MADDOX, formerly book-keeper Pullitop
Station. Anyone knowing address com-
municate immediately Grant McKenzie, care
E. P. Carter, 45 Bridge Road, Melbourne.
TWO boys, named ROY and NORMAN
RICHARDS, left their home, Port Augusta
in September, 1907, aged respectively 9 and 19.
Probably now under the name of Bennett,
Banks, or Afford. £3O reward paid to the first
person giving information leading' to their
recovery. Apply C. B. Richards, Port Augusta,
South Australia.
Public Notices.
The Broken Hill Proprietary
Company, Limited.
Reward £>soo.
THE above sum will be paid to such person or
persons giving information and evidence
which will bring about the conviction of the men,
or some of them, who were responsible for the
attack on and personal injury to the Company’s
officials on the 4th January, instant. Should in-
formation, establishing such conviction or con-
victions, be furnished by more than one person
the above reward will be divided equally amongst
them. In the event of information coming from
one source only, the whole amount of £5OO will be
paid to such person. The Company’s directors
shall exclusively decide to whom such reward
shall be paid.
Dated this seventh day of January, nineteen
hundred and nine, by order of the Board.
F. M. DICKENSON, Secretary. '
DALGETY and COMPANY,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL, fully subscribed £4,000,000.
PAID UP 1,000,000.
RESERVE FUND 270,000.
NOTICE.
■'VTOTICE is hereby given that meetings of
_LaI shareholders in London have authorised
the increase of the capital of the above Company
by the creation and issue of preference shares at
£lO each, for a total amount not exceeding
£1,000,000, at 5 per cent, per annum on the capital
paid up, non-cumulative, payable out of the
annual profits on the first February and first
August in each year, and ranking as regards
return of capital in priority to all other shares in
the Company, but conferring no other right of
participation.
It is at present proposed to issue in Great
Britain and Australasia 50,000 shares, only in order
to increase the capital by £500,000, on the
following terms: £1 on application, £3 on allot-
ment, £3 on March 31, 1909, and £3 on June
30, 1909.
Interest at 3 per cent, will be allowed on any
prepayments.
Applications for shares may be addressed to the
following places, and must be received in Mel-
bourne or Sydney at or before 4 p.m. on the
14th January inst.
DALGETY & Co., Ltd.,
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, FRE-
MANTLE, or any of the branches in New Zealand.
When Mosquitoes annoy you <
remember how useful, either for pre- j
venting the attack of these and other j
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
PLASMON
THE FOOD''
VALUE ENORMOUSLY"
lancet. •
svk®*
?VN
COCOA
10 TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA .
A
PIGESTIBLEJI
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy ea
every other remedy had failed. English Prices 4/6 and 11/.
Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS. STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Messrs. Sayers, Allport Proprietary Ltd., Sydney.
Prepared bv I. W. NICHOLL. Pharmaceutical Chemist
25, HIGH STREET, BELFAST, IRELAND.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IY., V., YI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
“6'.K.” writes Lydia Thompson died recently at
the respectable age of 72. Lydia was connected with the
Australian stage through her sister Clara Thompson, the
wife of Henry Bracy, but as ah actress this country
ltnew her only by tradition. She dated back to the
earliest times of burlesque in London—the punning bur-
lesque, of which H. J. Byron, P. O. Burnand, and Robert
Reece were the leading manufacturers. When still a
young woman, the festive Lydia, who was a graceful
dancer, went to America on a “starring” tour and
lighted what John Hollingshead termed “ the sacred
lamp of burlesque ” in the somewhat shocked country of
Uncle Sam. The country soon recovered from its shock,
and took kindly to Lydia’s scantily dressed form of en-
tertainment. She stayed there for six years, and in 1874,
being then fair, rather fat, and getting on for 40, she re-
turned to London with a burlesque called “Blue Beard.”
It was a Yankee concoction, and most of its success was
due to Willie Edouin, made up as the Heathen Chinee.
Also Lionel Brough appeared as Blue Beard. The old
reputation of Lydia Thompson and the comparatively
dew humor of the men kept the awful piece of absurdity
goiflg for a loflg time. Subsequently the faded “ Queen
of Burlesque ” dropped into the background. Burlesque
beoame identified with the Gaiety Theatre, where Nellie
Farreri held sway. Nevertheless Lydia Thompson’s old
dame remained a valuable asset. When she formally
retired from the stage some nine years ago her farewell
benefit was worth £3OOO, and W. S. Gilbert wrote her
valedictory address. Her little bit of talent went a very
lodg way.
Tommy Burns isn’t much of a showman. He goes
through his training exercises With much the same
hdmoroUsly apologetic air that a good-natured, athletic
big brother wears When he exhibits his muscles to ad
adoring young' brother add his awe-stricken “ cobber.”
Either Burns lacks the dramatic instinct* or else he
scorns to help out his simple athletic turn with the sort
of heroics at which wrestler Carkeek was such an artist.
Carkeek was the ideal music hall athlete ; he used the
limelight nian as mUch as any Julius Knight* and his
expression wheh he recklessly cast Challenges at the stalls
filled With 9st. clerks was terrible to witness. Contrast
Burns’ entrance with Oarkeek’s. The wrestler’s appear-
ance od the stage Was prefixed by a period of insanity on
the part of the orchestra, which blew, kicked, thumped*
shrieked and bashed till utterly exhausted. Then, when
the paroxysm had passed, amid a funereal ruffle of drums
the gladiator used to step from the wings and stride
tragically to the footlights, from which spot he used to
survey the house with a black-browed stare of defiance.
In cold, measured tones the challenge to wrestle catch-
as-catch-can’t for £50,000 would be flung in the gold-
stopped teeth of the superannuated barmaid and her
bald-headed escort. After which the dreary and useless
fumbling on the mat would eventuate, whilst unneces-
sary shudders at the ferocity of the turn rushed up and
down every backbone present. Whatever Burns is, he
could never be as impressive as that. 1
“Melb.”: Tiny Fanny Wiseman again bounds on as
Topsy, in the sack suit, marked “Glass, with Care.”
Jefferson wore such a one as Caleb Plummer. His blind
daughter, played by Rosa Dunn, said, “ Oh papa, I see
you in your nice green coat, with the bright brass but-
tons.” But to Topsy. Fanny Wiseman acted this at the
wooden Princess’s, and so it must have been a goodly
while agone. Her husband was William South, brother
of Jim. Her sister Emily married J. L. Hall. The other
sister, Alice, married Westley, one of the Melbourne
lawyer family. Fanny wrote a series of reminiscences
in one of our local papers. John Dunn left his in the
hands of his son-in-law, Marcus Clarke. J. O. Lambert
left seven MSS. volumes of Recollections with his nephew
in Richmond, Melbourne. Ores wick published some. I
was once in a publishing office when “ißlue-tail Fly”
Barlow came along with his bundle of MSS., or at all
events he had it ready. Publisher'never heard of him.
“What! Not Barlow, the ‘Blue-tail Fly’?” “No.”
The dictum was “ Won’t sell.” Didn’t Coppin leave any
papers? His would be a biography if you like. Posi-
tively the most wondrous in the whole history of the
boards. I never heard of Coppin writing a line of any-
thing.
Died the other day, Octavia Nesbitt, the rather formid-'
able looking lady of uncertain age who for 25 years or so
had charge of the little d.c. ticket-box at Melbourne
Royal. Mrs. Nesbitt was a well-read woman, and was
said to have been a capital pianist when her fingers
were younger. Also, she had a touch of eccentricity
which made her interesting to many who knew her as a
theatrical identity.
“Jean Sibi” : I pushed into Melbourne Bijou the other
night to observe a play called “ The Unwritten Law.”
This drama was asserted to present episodes from the
lives of the degenerates who figured in the Thaw outrage,
and as the incidental setting was to be either unexampled
or unparalleled, I anticipated a rich feast of vice. Alas !
I only glared upon a moral debate in a tomb. There was,
in fact, nothing in the four acts to raise a blush on
the faded cheek of an elderly maiden lady. Stanford
White hinted at libertinism in his speeches and was un-
impeachable in his acts. His career was marked by
the intense precipitancy of a lame vicar at a game of
chess. As for Thaw, he struck me as a cherubic and
cheerful puppy whose most abominable act had prob-
ably been stiffening the favorite in a hat-trimming com-
petition. And the pair' of them, accompanied by the
other magnates and a bunch of “ tarts,” capered through
their surroundings in a polite and decorous fashion
that made me tired. I endured their inoffensive con-
duct with growing rancor, but was finally permitted some
measure of relief by the impressive trial of Thaw in the
last act. The scene was presumably a realistic copy of
the Court of Crimes, New York. At the back, with the
gloomy mien of a pompous super, sat the Judge behind
an arrangement that looked like the cash-desk of a four-
penny restaurant. In front of him, a person in fictitious
whiskers lounged on a table. In a corner stood the Law
in the shape of a youth hiding in a cop. ’s borrowed helmet.
I fancy that he was there to keep the dock (which accom-
modated Mr. Thaw) from collapsing. At one table sat
the tremendous counsel for the prosecution and defence.
They cross-examined the witnesses, and the witnesses
guyed them, to the uproarious enthusiasm of about half-
a-dozen people, who represented a frenzied and interested
public. Then counsel upstood with the rigidity of damp
wipes, and delivered telling addresses. The jury, cun-
ningly disguised in hair or inked rope, absorbed the pro-
found conclusions of the judge, and, scarcely waiting for
him to finish, gave the tip to the foreman to stand up
and declare “Not guilty.” In all my life I have never
seen a more pathetic stage picture of a criminal trial.
“ 0.K.” : The late John F. Sheridan had an advantage
over many a comedian whose reputation is associated
with one part. The greater portion of his life was spent
in growing up to the character he lived by, instead of
growing down from it. Widow O’Brien might have been
anything between 45 and 60, and Sheridan probably was
something between 30 and 40 when he first appeared in
“ Fun on the Bristol ” in America. He took it to London
about 27 years ago and staged it at the Opera Oomique, a
house with a tunnel entrance, that was longtime the
home of Gilbert and Sullivan opera. In those days his
leading lady was May Livingstone, who played a song-
and-dance negress character —of the Topsy order—and
was almost a rival “ star ” to Sheridan. The
Widow didn’t loom so large then as in after years.
My recollections of the performance at the Opera
Oomique are of a bright May Livingstone, a clever
John F. Sheridan, and a very trashy comedy. Two years
later I was in Melbourne when Widow O’Brien and May
Livingstone (I think), as the black girl, made their Aus-
tralian debut at the old Royal, but I didn’t then rush to
renew my acquaintance with “Fun on the Bristol.” It
was too silly a thing. The snorting critic of the Agb
referred to it as “ a music-hall show,” quite out of place
at Melbourne’s largest and most respected theatre. The
piece either improved on acquaintance or was adapted
to Australian requirements as time went on, or public
taste adapted itself to the piece. The character, color,
and identity of the leading lady were changed, whilst
the leading man in the old woman part spread himself
more and more. Take Johnnie Sheridan for all in all,
we will never look upon his like again—as Widow
O’Brien. To begin with, he was a Dublin Jew, and an
Irish Israelite is a rarity, anyhow. Face, accent, and
humor were severally uncommon and collectively
unique. He had Jewish prudence and Irish wit.
The last time I talked with him was at Fitzgerald’s
circus what time Adelina Antonio was performing on the
high trapeze. Adelina’s “ act" terminated in a double
somersault backwards from the trapeze into a net. She
afterwards killed herself in South America in an attempt
to perform the same feat, or another of the same sort.
On this ocoasion, and all other Australian occasions, the
oharming gymnaste got through her somersaults all right
hut the experienced eye of Johnnie Sheridan saw more
danger in the feat than the admiring multitude had a
notion of. And, turning to me, he said “Well, I’d
rather risk my life as a low comedian.” Johnnie was
more than a low comedian, however. He was a famous
character actor—always the same character, but none
the less famous on that account.
“ Kodak ” : Met a man last week who is haunted by a
widow. No matter where he goes, he meets the widow,
this particular relict is known gen erally as the “ Merry
Widow',” but to one man at least she has become a
tragedy. Me made her acquaintance first in Ceylon, at
the commencement of an Indian tour. At Bombay he
encountered her again. Five minutes after he reached
Agra she rushed past him on four elephants. He fled to
Calcutta, but she was there before him. By this time his
nerves were in the tattered state of the man in Kipling’s
story who was haunted by blind, white kittens. However,
he braced himself up and got away to Rangoon. It was
useless ; she was sitting in the theatre there waiting for
him. He then travelled madly to Singapore, but
the waltz wreathed itself round his ear as he ran up
the steps of his hotel. At Singapore he allowed
himself a few days’ rest, as he had run pretty well
all round India, and was tired. When he got his wind
back he packed his kit bag, and, stealing out the back
way, took ship to Hongkong. She w'as there ! He side-
stepped to Shanghai, and crossed to Kobe—where he
met her for the ninth time. The hopelessness of the
thing had by this time broken his spirit, and he stag-
gered to Yokohama expecting the worst. He wasn’t dis-
appointed. Then he turned his face southwards and
shifted to Melbourne, to lay his weary head on his unim-
proved native land. He found Batman’s village in a state
of excitement over the arrival of a charming woman in
an impossible hat. It w’as the same endless female !
Realising that his only hope of avoiding her was to get
out of town until she left, and then steal back again, he
hurried to Sydney for a brief holiday. A friend insisted
on taking him to the theatre 1 ... The haunted man is of
a superstitious nature. Sydney makes the 12th city in
which he has met the same woman. He feels that the
13th meeting will be fatal. He has decided not to go to a
theatre again until the Widow is absolutely and finally
dead.
A very old Australian actor, identified with the earliest
productions of “ Silver King,” is nowadays an inmate of
the Austin Hospital for Incurables (Vie.). Johnny Bryan
it is. Bryan used to pop up periodically in the second
act of “ Silver King ’’ as the big burly cabman, who comes
along, laden with parcels and a birdcage, to the railway
station, in attendance on a sharp-tongued female. She
wanted to know whether anything had been forgotten,
and the cabman replied, “ Well, you haven’t brought the
kitchen-range or the mangle, but, s’elp me Bob 1 I think
you brought everything else.” And when she gave him
a shilling for his fare, he protested that he and his 'orse
didn’t work for money, but for honor and glory, where-
upon the angry female called him a rude man, and talked
of taking his number. To which he replied, “Take it,
rnarm, take it—and drive the bloomin’ cab your-
self!” Every old playgoer remembers the figure
of Johnnie Bryan’s cabman, in the long over-
coat with the short capes to it, and the
fruity tones of his sarcastic remarks. He had a
great opinion of his importance, inasmuch as he was the
principal person on the stage what time he was speaking
his half-a-dozen lines. On one occasion—recorded in a
Bulletin of long ago—manager Williamson, offering the
veteran an engagement (as the cabman) for another
revival of the popular melodrama, informed him that
business had been very “off,” and salaries all round
would have to suffer from the prevailing depression.
“Reduce my salary!” said Johnnie. “Consider how
successful I have always been. I hold the house from the
moment of my entrance. I can feel it here,” and the
proud mummer struck his chest in a majestic manner.
J.C.W. ventured to observe that the cabman was but a
very small character. Drawing himself up to the full
height of his dignity the good old egotist replied: “Mr.
Williamson, the value of a work of art is not measured by
its dimensions. A very small painting by Meissonier
commands a very high price!” Possibly the argument
prevailed. The unconscious humor of it should have been
irresistible.
THE PARTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Messrs. Graham, McCutcbeon, and others also spoke
They did not pour out the adulation employed by Mr.
Cameron. They confined themselves to high compliments
upon Mr. Bent for having “ adopted the right course in the
interests of the country,” and dwelt with emphasis on
the necessity of “ solidifying the party”—in other words,
of again bringing the Liberals under Conservative domi-
nation in the interests of legislative stagnation.— Daily
paper.
Consider the Party !
Its Greatness —its Girthed-in Immensity !
How to keep it Together !
Also, how to Solidify it!
So that it may be Immovable 1
That is the Question !
Consider the Country!
(Who SAID THAT???)
Out with him !
We are not here to indulge in heroics !■
We are the plain business-men 1
Practical Politics !
That is our line !
Now then !
Let us talk it over.
Consider the Party !
Which may be the Band—
Or the Push, or the Mob,
Or the Gang!
( Who were they captured by 1)
D —n it! Not bushrangers !
Townrangers, idiot!
They are the Government l
We’re talking Politics —
Plain Party-Politics l
Do have some sense !
Consider the Party !
That is the battle-cry,
Sink all your prej udiees,
Sink all opinions, all friendships, and enmities
Cling like an oyster to office. Say anything
(Then contradict it next morning !)
It’s easy, but— Keep with the Gang 1
Consider the Party!
In Love, War and Politics
Ev’ry thing’s fair.
The Other Ones watch you
And wait for a stumble;
Keep in with your Party
And hit where you can.
THE COUNTRY ! Oh, bother !
The Country takes care of itself !
Don’t you worry !
You sink your ideals and be sensible;
Or, if you don’t, you will never
Get anything done !
Vote for Him —hold Him up;
HE is the fountainhead !
Giver of Grants and Disposer of Subsidies,
You just keep in with him !
That’s your best plan !
Consider the Party l
Its Greatness, its Girthed-in Immensity l
How to Keep It Together l
Also how to Solidify It I
So that It may be Immovable I
That Is What Worries us.
N.S.W.
FRANCIS E.


NOW IS THE TIME TO PEA NT
Genuine Dutch Bulbs
Best Varieties. True to Name.
Every Buib Guaranteed
GIVEN
AWAY
See
Special
Offer.
AUOM COEKOTUM
Hyacinths, Tulips, Cro-
cuses, Narcissus, Jonquils,
Ranunculus, Galanthus,
Iris, Anemones, Scillas,
Oxalis.
TJTOLLAND is the world’s centre for
A -*■ every variety of Bulb. The
Dutch have made a life study of their
cultivation and propagation, and the
perfection of their blooms is the envy
and admiration of growers all over the
world. Very high prices are realiied
for specimens of new and uncommon
coloring, the competition
between connoisseurs and
collectors being extremely
keen. We have imported a
representative assortment of
the above-named varieties
from Herr Telkamp, who
has 50 years* reputation as
the leading Bulb Grower of
Holland, and he guarantees
every bulb to germinate and
prove true to name.
sorted parcels of TWELYE BULBS for 3s. 6d., carriaee
paid to any address. TWO PARCELS for 65., or FOUR
PARCELS for 10s.
SPECIAL OFFER. —So long ns the stock lasts we will
present with every order for Two Parcels one
Bulb of the celebrated Arum Cornu turn (Gigantic
Lily) without charge. This is a wonderful bulb that grows
without water, without soil and without pot. Place the bulb
on the mantelpiece or anywhere in a room and it will produce
a thick green sprout, that grows taller and taller and at last—
usually in the night—unfolds a huge red and black spotted
flower. In the Spring plant the bulb in the garden or in a pot
and it will produce beautiful strange foliage. In the
take it out of the earth again, and place it in a dry state in a
Hiom and again it will produce the marvellous gigantic flower.
Send for Illustrated Directions for Bulb
Growing; we will post, them free to any address.
The Union Mfg. & Agency Go.)
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
DON’T STAY THIN!
DEVELOP YOUR BUST .
1]
Every day
other women
are increas-
ing their
weight and
developing
their figures.
You can do
the same.
Try a course
of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD”
It will work wonders for your appearance.
It increases the weight by five pounds a
week, and adds inches to your bust measure-
ment. Send a 2d. stamp for Free Trial
Sample and Free Book, or call.
FALLIERE
“FLESH-FOOD” CO.
Dept. 5.
Lindrn Court,
Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY
Ride only
BROOKS
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles a
analogue free-
The Saddle
All
Agents stock them. Art Catalogue i
J. B. BROOKS &Co., Ltd., The !
Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
THE XJ.A’.A. AUUIRX PIATOL.
will stop
the most
vicious
dog (or
man)with-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Gan be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
ment for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, or post free any where for 3/-
&
The Joker’s Squirt
Cinematograph.
A real startler. You may have a lot dfcfun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having: a micros-
copic lens fitted into one end. While the
victim is absorbed in admiration of the pretty
picture, and turns the button in the con-
fident expectation of seeing something in-
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in
the vest pocket. Full directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
f
sd
fs
The Searchlight Elec-
tric Pocket Lamp and
Scarf Pin can be used as an
ordinary lamp for lighting- pur-
poses, also as a Novelty Electric
Scarf Pin. The
whole outfit
guaranteed in
perfect working
order, throwing
a dazzling bright
light. Price,
complete, 219,
■ or post free 3/3.
Extra Batteries
for re-charging
lamp //-, or post
free 1/3.
Wholesale and
Retail.
/
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition just published.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
3MOIAIS
REFEREE
TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LTTTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
BOVRIL
By Royal Warrant
is indispensable in the Sick-room.
/
ALCOCK'S
Billiard Tobies
The “BIJOU” BILLIARD
TABLE, fitted with slate bed and
fast=running cushions, covered
in superfine billiard cloth, 6ft„ x
3ft. £l 9; lit. x 3ft.
£22; Bft. x 4ft. £2s ; 9ft.
x 4ft. £3l 10s. Easy
terms if desired. By a simple
adjustment of leaves these tables
can be immediately used as
dining tables.
Alcock* <s
PT Y
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
and
349 George Street, Sydney.
R
THE PLUM
POST FREE, 10/0,
ANY ADDRESS IN
AUSTRALIA.
The Critical
Man's Razor,
THE PLUM
The men who know “ what’s what ” in Razors—hairdressers, for instance—
always prefer the PLUM. It is the critical, particular, busy man’s razor,
with a reliable blade of pure silver steel. We guarantee and keep it in order
for two years free of charge.
Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Cake Universal Shaving: Soap, 6d
Razoieo Lightning - Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
< Established 25 Years.
MUMMERS ABROAD.
Some years ago a testimonial performance was given in
N’York to Abbey and Grau, the then grand opera mag-
na*-ea The Soldiers’ Chorus from Faust, sung: by all
the principals, was the feature. Included among those who
warbled “ Glory and Love to the Men of Old were Melba,
Calve Nordica, Prances Saville (a daughter of Fanny
Simonsen) Maurel, Plancon, and Jean and Edouard de
Keszke. Something like a chorus 1 Was there ever one
more famous ?
“ Harrison O.” : Owing to the large number of Gaiety
damsels who have recently committed matrimony, aided
and abetted by members of the Cold Country anstocracjs
Seymour Hicks (the most persistent self-advertiser in
Bull’s country) begins to despair of keeping alwajs on
hand a sufficiently large quantity of girl to fill his chorus.
He has therefore written to the Daily Express, suggest-
ing that every lady who wishes to become a leg actress
should forward a counterfeit presentment of her physi-
ognomy to that paper. Hicks and a committee will then
proceed to pick out the 24 prettiest girls ; their photos,
will be published in the paper and a plebiscite will be
taken to decide which are the 12 most beautiful, ffo
the first four in the voting, Hicks offer a three years en-
gagement at £5 per week; the next four, a similar
emVement at £4 ; and to the final quartette, one at £3
a week. The other 12 will presumably be cast into outer
of dramas written to suit stars, Caroline Bauer,
a German actress who was mysteriously married to King
Leopold, the dissipated potentate of Belgium, relates, in
her Memoirs, how once a sizeable pachyderni had a play
written for him. It was entitled “ The Elephant of the
King of Siam.” On different occasions the elephant saved
the life of the legitimate heir to the Siamese crown. The
youth was much harassed by a pretender and at a crisis
the ’phant freed him from prison by shattering with its
trunk a window high up in the tower. Then it tore out
the iron bars, and lif tedout the prince. It did many marvel-
lous deeds for the prince, and at last settled the ownership
of the crown by dragging that gaud off the usurper s head
and gracefully putting it on the locks of the legitimate
heir. The latter was not ungrateful when he came into
his kingdom, and the elephant lived in great style in a
golden palace. When it rang the bell a band of splen-
didly-attired slaves spread out rich food before it,.and put
a tablecloth as a napkin round its thick neck. Then they
opened liquor, and the elephant poured champagne into
its abyss as one to the manner born. It beckoned with
its trunk, and lovely girls performed before it the most
voluptuous dances. It threw a pocket-handkerchief to
the most beautiful, and she lay caressingly down upon its
broad back, and scratched its great improvement lease of
an ear. In fact, it had a great time, and the Siamese tax-
payer paid for it all, and would gladly have heard that the
elephant was dead.
Flickergraph realism is being horribly overdone. The
Parisian police recently arrested the author of a piece
called “ The Lover’s Revenge.” It showed how, during a
drive with Juliet along some cliffs, Romeo suddenly
flogged the horse into a gallop towards the precipice,
jumped clear as the outfit neared the edge, and then
stood and watched horse, carriage, and occupant go to
destruction. Of course, the lady was stuffed, but the
horse wasn’t? * the authorities discovered that the brutal
picture-fakir had got it to take the leap by either band-
aging its eyes or by blinding the wretched animal. An-
other gang was run in later for engineering a bona fide
bull-tiger struggle. The animals had been run into an iron-
railed arena, but, contrary to expectations, the starved
tiger funked the bellowing and pawing bovine. The police
arrived just as the unfortunate brute was being encour-
aged by wire whips, pistol shots, and heated iron bars.
The boss horror got ahead even of these. It showed a
man deliberately set up the photographic apparatus in
his room, then shed his clothes —his naked condition had
no special bearing on the case, but it was thrown m
and finally blow out his brains. This is said to have
been a real suicide; a man who meant to blow off the
top of his head in any case was induced, in considera-
tion of a sum of money for his family, to do the deed
in front of the flick-machine. The Law seized this
flickergraph on its first appearance and drove its boot
through the affair.
“ Vulcan Actor-manager Oscar Asche, who has con-
tracted for an Australian tour with his wife (Lily Bray-
ton), under Meynell and Gunn, next September, is the
first Australian he-mummer to do big things in foreign
parts. Asche, who is of Norwegian parents, first absorbed
atmosphere at Geelong (Vic.), but left that hurried city
for Christiania over 20 years back. He studied the mum-
ming business in the Norwegian capital under Hensen,
Henrik Ibsen's successor as director of the Bergen
Theatre, and, later, under Bjornson-Bjornstjerne, son of
the novelist. His first English appearance was in ’93, in
“Manand Woman,” at London Opera Comique, under
Arthur Dacre (who died so tragically in Sydney). Later,
he put in a stretch of seven or eight years With
F. R. Benson’s touring Shakspearian co. His first
biff hit was as Maldonado, in the initial produc-
tion of Pinero’s “Iris.” in ’Ol, at London Garnck,
and he boomed the same character in N. York the
following year. He and his wife were subsequently
associated with Beerbohm Tree in some big Shakspearian
productions at His Majesty’s Theatre, London, and their
success led to a partnership with Otho Stuart in the
Adelphi Theatre management. There Asche and his wife
made some notable successes as stars in Taming of
the Shrew,” as Bottom and Titania in ‘ A Midsummer
Night’s Dream ” (Elizabeth Parkina being first vocal fairy),
and in “Measure for Measure,” “The Virgin Goddess,
etc. Last year, he aided London His Majesty s Theatre
to his string, and there he produced “ As You Like H,
“Othello” and “ Attila.” At latest, he was looking for
another house for the production of a big new piece,
“ Count Hannibal.” Asche is the first London manager
to make a big success (financial and otherwise) of the
purely poetic drama, and he has discovered several new
authors of promise in the process. Some time ago Asche
tried the innovation of introducing Australian prices to
London theatre-goers, but with what success hasn t
transpired.
“ Sceneshifter ” : Goetz, who turned “ The Taming of
the Shrew ” (B. 19/11/’08) into an opera, is not the only
composer who collared the plays of Shakspeare for
operatic illustration. Memory recalls Verdi’s Otello,
done in Sydney in 1901 by Larizza, Bozzoli, Cannomeri,
Vere Sapio, Marchi and other Italian warblers. Rossini s
early opera on the same subject has also been done here
in ye olden days. Verdi seemed to have a leaning to
William, for he turned out “ Falstaff ” (1893), a subject
treated by Michael Balfe in 1838 under the same name,
and “ Macbeth ” (1817). The latter opera has never been
done in London, but the English provinces have re-
peatedly heard it, and in 1871 it was produced in Aus-
tralia with Coliva and other Italians in the cast under
Lyster and Cagli’s regime. Coliva was an excellent
musician, a fine baritone and a good actor, and
he made the operatic “Mac.” very interesting.
When Verdi’s “Mac.” was first produced in Dublin, on the
rag rising for the fourth act, to “discover” the doctor
and the nurse seated in Lady Macbeth’s castle, with a
candle and a book of physic between them, all was silent
for a moment. Then an impatient chap, evidently labor-
ing under the delusion that an interesting family event
had taken place, shouted, “ Faith, now, is it a boy or a
girl?” Falstaff, of course, figures as the basso part in
Nicolai’s fine work, “The Merry Wivesof Windsor (184.1)
done at the old Sydney Queen’s in 1878, with l'anny
Simonsen as prima donna. Geo. H. Snazelle, lately at
Sydney Ori., was an efficient Page in the English version
by the Carl Rosa co. at the London Adelphi in 1878.
Aynsley Cook was the Falstaff of that production. Thomas
well known by his “ Migr.on,” wrote “ Hamlet (1
which has been frequently performed in London. Melba
sang Ophelia to Lassalle’s Hamlet (a baritone role) some 1 1
years ago. The librettists of “Hamlet,” Barbier arid Carre,
had but one object in view—not to illustrate the philo-
sophic Dane in music, but to make Ophelia the heroine of
the opera. Setting aside the spirit of the tragedy, the opera
has unquestionable merits from a musical point of view.
But when first produced, with Christine JMilsson as
Ophelia, in Paris, a ballet just before the mad scene nearly
wrecked the show. A ballet in “ Hamlet,” operatic or
otherwise, seems as much out of place as Dill Maclty would
be in St. Mary’s. Gounod’s “Romeo and Juliet, done
here last year, is a better treatment of the subject than
Bellini’s version, known as “Montagues and Oapulets,
and the story of the ill-starred Veronese lovers has also
attracted z'ingarelli and other small-fry Dago _ com-
posers. Halevy, whose “ Jewess ” was familiar here ini the
Lyster days, wrote “ La Tempesta ” (The Tempest), which
was produced at the old Her Majesty’s, London, in 1850.
Scribe, the librettist, introduced all the Bard’s characters
and added one of his own, Sycorax, the spirit of air (a
contralto part). Baucarde, Sontag, Coletta and
Lablache were in the cast. The last-named made a big
hit as Caliban, and Carlotta Grisi danced divinely as
Ariel. Some exquisite scenery graced the show, and
some Bland Holt-like effects were introduced into the
prologue, which revealed the sinking of the vessel. In
his score Halevy had adroitly introduced Dr. Arnes
music to “ Where the Bee Sucks,” which, on the opening
night w r as the only number encored. After the rag fell,
Halevy, who conducted, rushed behind, where he was
congratulated by the artists, tame-cat press critics,
managerial friends, etc., on his opera. But to his great
annoyance, everyone, after praising the originality of
his music, went away whistling Arne’s melody, “Where
the Bee Sucks.” Dr. Villiers Stanford, an English com-
poser, with the aid of the Carl Rosa co., produced
“ Much Ado About Nothing ” in the ’.9o’s, but it was a
frost. Goldmark, whose operas “Merlin” and “The
Queen of Sheba” are popular in Europe, recently pro-
duced “ A Winter’s Tale,” which has pleased Germany.
What a field is still left to the operatic composer in search
of a Divine Bill subject 1


B£AL£ Australian PIANOS
Grand Prize and Two Gold Medals, London, 1908.
IT If you were about to buy a Piano, whose judgment would
you take as to which is the best ?
Supposing you had the opportunity of consulting five of the
world’s experts, would you not attach considerable value to
their opinions P
*ll Of course you would.
Then as five such experts —two British and three French -
have unanimously decided that the Beale Australian Pianos
are worthy of the Grand Prix of the Franco-British
Exhibition, plus two gold medals and a silver medal—
C H As these experts have awarded prizes to the Beale Pianos
surpassing those given to any of our competitors —-
If Need you hesitate P
If By all means examine imported instruments—that is what
we want you to do.
IT But do not be cajoled into purchasing before inspecting
for yourself the Beale Australian Pianos.
If We maintain showrooms for no other purpose than to
exhibit our pianos to the public.
If We guarantee every Beale Australian Piano for 25 years.
1 Catalogue Free.
BEALE CO.
td.
378 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the 0.P.0.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
price of the best imported instruments.
Old Pianos taken in Exchange.
A
Cash or Easy Terms.


ROWLAND'S
KALYDOR
FOR » SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
CT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
i£s_
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The cricket trouble practically ended when
Laver, Noble, and’Hill suddenly slithered down from the
pinnacle of rebellion, took the Board’s advice, and re-
quested to be allowed to make certain representations
and suggestions to the governing body. The reason of
this dibdcle was that quite a number of promising colts
informed the Board that they thought its terms fair, and
assured it of their loyalty and their readiness to make
the trip under the new conditions. The malcontents—
the gentlemen who desired to pose as amateurs while in-
dulging in straight-out professionalism, the persons who
wanted to run international cricket as a purely private
concern—suddenly saw their hopes of pocketing about
£7OO for six months’ play and entertainment, with a free
trip thrown in, about to vanish. Then the skedaddle
commenced. They climbed over themselves to get in
out of the wet, and vainly tried to save their cheek by
calling their hurried stampede a deputation.
* * * *
The more hot-headed of the self-styled
“players” continue to bray against the Board of Control,
and some of the brays are humorous. Armstrong recently
opened his head and remarked, sagely : “ The offer and
acceptance of a fixed amount would, in the eyes of the
English cricket authorities, constitute the Australian
team as professionals. Therefore such a step would not
be desirable.” This is beautiful. The spectacle of the
players demanding practically all the cash and still
vociferating that they are “amateurs” is edifying. If
there was ever any doubt about the Australian
Elevens of the past being professional, it has
altogether vanished. The most curious feature of
the players’ lamentation is that, although they
declare £6OO clear profit, for six months’ play,
quite “ inadequate,” they have never taken any move
towards showing what former Elevens divided. Mr.
Armstrong remarks : “In no tour that I have been asso-
ciated with have the receipts been £18,000.” Well, will
Mr. Armstrong tell us what were the receipts of the tours
he has been associated with—and, also, how they were
divided? That would be interesting information. When
the players started the unseemly clamor for all the
monej', they threw overboard the last pretence of being
amateurs. The proposed visit to England then became a
money-making concern, pure and simple ; unless they
got all that was made, they proposed to tell Australia and
the Board of Control what they thought of these
two effete institutions. If that isn’t commercial
cricket, then what is? Why don’t the players be
logical? Why not form a professional, private enterprise
team, go to England or Palestine or some old place,
and play any other professionals who are willing to meet
them ? But that enterprise wouldn’t pay, hence the howl
to be allowed to run international sport on a commercial
basis, and still pose as amateurs, because the amateur is
invited out to free swills in England whereas the pro-
fessional is merely a laborer paid by the match, and is no
more invited out than the man who repairs the sewer
pipe. And our players not only want all the money, but
the free swills as well.
* * * *
The end of the cricket contest between South
Australia and Victoria, at Melbourne last week, was one
of those apparently miraculous surprises that lend a sheen
of romance to the'game. S.A. was 219 runs in arrears
and there was every prospect of a saturated wicket as a
result of the fearsome leak in the heavens, which had
been out of repair for almost two days. So S.A., on
paper, had a chance that was more imperceptible than
Buckley’s. But on the resumption of play on Wednes-
day “ the complexion of the game,” as the dailies have it,
suddenly changed from the pallor of the dead to the flush
of robust health, and S.A. astonished the spectators and
itself bv hitting up the meritorious score of 361. This
excellent performance was largely due to the valu-
able partnership of Mayne and Gehrs, who tacked
on 130 badly-required runs for the sixth wicket,
thereby lifting the score from 135 for five wickets to 265
for six. At that point the vigorous Gehrs went out for
76 Mayne, whose batting was far from being a picture
of baresark fury, carried his bat right through to the
10th wicket, and then got bowled by Armstrong. Vic-
toria, requiring 133 to win, started on a vastly improved
wicket, looking quite heroic enough for the job. But
with the solitary exception of Ransford, the side was
smitten with paralysis; its muscles gave way and its mid-
riff fell in. The rattle of the falling wickets could be
heard for miles, and all Victoria stood still and wondered.
O’Connor, who was bowling splendidly, gathered in
seven for 36, and the 10 were garnered for 117. S.A. won
by 15 runs. *
The first innings of the South Australia v. N. S.
Wales cricket match was brightened up by a century
from Gehrs and some smart bowling by the colt, helle-
wav. Gehrs hanged up 102, and then fell to one of
Cotter’s projectiles, and Kelleway took four wickets for
S 3 runs. The other bowlers were Ootter, who had two
for 78 • Emery, one for 80 ; Noble, one for 35. Cotter
bowled two wides and four no-balls, and Noble delivered
himself of one wide. The honors rested with the colt en-
tirely Gehrs’ innings lasted two hours and a quarter,
and included 17 fours and three threes. Next best scorer
was Woodford, who was run out for 35. And after him
oame the oldest player on earth, yet one of the most
Vigorous-Sundries, with 33. The total score of the side,
including a brace of fine poultry produce, was 272. Then
NSW. srot going with tremendous vim. Macartney and
Bardsley jointly bashed and slogged 219, and the
rank and file played a nice steady game, and, in-
cluding Sundries 16, made 228 among them, finish-
ing the innings for 447. In the face of this tenific
demonstration South Australia went to pieces, and was
dismissed for 192, which left N.S.W. with a whole innings
in which to- make 18 required to win. When The Bul-
letin went to press N.S.W. had made seven without
losing a stick, and the position was locally regarded
as satisfactory.
-* ■* * *
After the inter-State struggle in Melbourne,
the local pennant cricket, which resumed its suspended
arguments last Saturday, seemed as unappealing as last
night’s beer. Yet there was some fairly exhilarating
Dlav especially at Carlton where Northcote had declared
its innings closed at five for 321. Wonderfully enough—
and with less than three hours to bat—the Carltomans
whacked up 318 for nine wickets by 6 p.m., the closely-
contested game thus ending in a draw. Melbourne,
having previously dismissed Richmond for 122, was mean
enough to show the discrepancy in the relative strengths
of the two teams by softly patting up 476 for eight
wickets, thus winning by A, trifle, of two wickets
and 354 runs on the first innings. Urged to
eclipse North’s total of 152, East Melbourne
responded heroically with 227 for seven wickets, declared
closed, and gave North another chance at the wickets.
North managed 121 for two wickets, which, however,
made no difference to East’s first innings victory by 75.
The struggle, or little bit of polished rudeness, between
University and South Melbourne was left undecided, the
former answering the latter’s challenge of 287 for seven
wickets (declared closed) with 186 for five wickets. As
for Essendon, which this season has exhibited the aggress-
iveness of thin macaroni, it was decisively walloped by
Oollingwood, scores being: ’Wood, 292 for eight wickets
(closed); Essendon, 138, and 102 for three wickets. Satur-
day was a batsman’s day ; four centuries —Tuckwell 116,
Mailer 108, both for Melbourne ; Twentyman 141 (not out)
for South ; and Delves, 127 for Oarlton —being recorded,
besides numerous forties, fifties, sixties, and some seven-
ties and eighties.
* * * *
The selection of wicket-keepers in the Aus-
tralian XI. is likely to cause much trouble. On this
season’s form, Carter, Oorry and Woodford are in Class I.
for the position. Gehrs is also well up in the running on
account of his sound batting, and he is also a fair change
bowler. The puzzle will take solving.
* * * *
Although Victor Trumper is among the chosen
half-dozen in the next Australian XI., it is more than
likely that he will drop out. Illness has been responsible
for his omission from this season’s inter-State matches ;
and Trumper recognises that it will not be the correct
thing to make the trip unless he is thoroughly fit.
Trumper’s more recent illness is alleged to be acute
rheumatism —a complaint which will not permit the
necessary exercise of chasing a cricket ball vigorously.
• * * *
“Westerner’’: One thing that strikes the
visitor at a Victorian race meeting is the confusing
variety of racing colors. Not only are all the colors of
the rainbow represented, but many others that never
were on sea or land. Note the following from one pro-
gramme : heliotrope, cardinal, cerise, terra-cotta, canary,
old gold, cherry. Then we have a long list of shades :
sky blue, royal blue, rose pink, French grey, and so on.
The limit is surely reached in the specification of a dis-
tinct tartan (i. e. , McLachlan tartan), which perhaps one
punter in a thousand can recognise. Even this is not
enough, however ; and so we have the grouping of colors
in the weirdest of combinations. How is the poor hard-
driven punter to tell one set of colors from another in a
close finish, when the only difference is in the collar or
the cap? It is up to the V.R.C. to take a line from the
W.A. Turf Club, which inaugurated a new color system
this season. Only the primary colors and white and
black are allowed, and these only in certain combinations.
Variety is permitted in hoops, sleeves, and stripes, but
no such trifling means of differentiation as cuffs or collars.
The cap must be of the same color as the ground color of
the jacket. Under this system an infinite number of
combinations is secured without the slightest chance of
confusion. If the V.R.O. follows suit it will escape a
great amount of blasphemy from the hasty punters who
set’em up for the boys on the strength of Bustemups
supposed victory when really Catsmeat was first past the
post.
Sydney’s only hydropianist, George Whatmore,
is threatening to really astonish the Sydney population
at the Anniversary Regatta with a new device of rare and
wondrous quality. A year ago Whatmore (whose idea of
things connected with his pet sport is sununed-up in his
remark: “If I’m going to be a dog, I’ll be top dog”)
brought out the first real hydroplane motor in Sydney.
It was a fine little craft, quite fast enough in proportion
to size to satisfy any epicure. But in the matter of
speed Whatmore is a glutton, and when he found his
little wonder was only capable of 20 miles an hour or
thereabouts, he held a court, accused the engines of
being too heavy in proportion to speed, found them
guilty, and sent them to the scrap-heap. The power
was 14-h.p., and the weight 2401 b. Now lie has a four-
cylinder 34-h.p. Imperial, weighing 3001 b., installed in a
shell 26ft. long with a 3ft. Bin. beam, and Bin. depth. The
cedar planking is 3-16th of an inch thick ; and in this cob-
web creation Whatmore is going to risk his valuable life
with an engine weighing 3001 b. Writer loves Whatmore like
a brother : but though he has ridden on the cowcatcher of
a bolting engine, and fallen between the sleepers of a
bridge from a train travelling 14 miles an hour, he s not
going out with Whatmore in that hydroplane.
* * * *
The people who seem to be most indifferent to
the progress of motor boating are those engaged in it.
The press has to literally drag reports out of them all over
Australia, and it is harder to get information from a
motor-boatist than to shove a rich man into the Kingdom
of Heaven. The Motor Boat Club of N.S. W. is one of the
strongest bodies in the world as regards numbers, but
nevertheless it seems to be in a semi-moribund state, or
at any rate it conceals its sprightliness very carefully
from the press. On Saturday last it held a couple of
races a gipsy tea and a Venetian night. And this is the
first that has been heard of the club for quite a long
time. The race for boats of eight miles an hour
and under went to Mr. Sandeman’s G.E.S.S., which
beat Marie, a one-design boat; but the feature of the race
was a fine run by the scratch boat Simplex, a 25 h.p.
craft which plunged along in great style, but was struck
dead’by the handicap. The boats capable of more than
eight miles an hour had a six-mile run, and the winner
turned up in Mr. Henry’s Wegiheh, with Charlie Moseley
second in his L.N.M., and Charles Relph third in the
Magic a boat of his own construction as regards the
engine and built previous to the making of the famous
Invincible. What times were made in these races the
club did not announce—if, indeed, it announced anything
so on iy the Lord knows, and the Lord is not contribu-
ting to this column.
« * * *
Prince Alfred Yacht Club was afloat again on
Port Jackson on Saturday, engaged in the quest of the
Jenny Trophy. A mild breeze veered from E.N.E. to
ES E Only four yachts faced the starter—a most
unusual thing. After a good spin to Manly, Magic was
leading by 70 seconds from Sunbeam, which was trailed
UD by Fleetwing and Petrel in that order. Magic showed
great pace, but Fleetwing eclipsed it. Then Fleetwing
lave way in turn to Sunbeam, which led the way round
Shark Island. Magic’s chances vanished-with the carry-
ing away of the mainsheet at the Pile Light, and Fleet-
wing won easily with a margin of lmin. 45sec. The real
struggle was for the second position, which was secured
by Sunbeam, with Petrel only one second behind.
• * » *
There was some mild excitement on Port Jack-
son on Saturday when the people who had gone out to
bet on the open boat racing suddenly craned their necks
to watch the finish of the 10ft. championship. Two
boats plunged along together, sprit to sprit. They were
010-a and Planet, finishing together, and while the crowd
was roaring that it was a dead heat the judge said Olga
had done the trick by the fraction of an inch or so.
Which, as the marker said when he felt the top of his ear
go, was a close thing.
* * * *
Last Saturday afternoon professional swimmer
Alex Lamb, accompanied by Miss Ruby Boobier and a
bunch of youngsters from the Richmond (Melb.) Swim-
ming Club, put up a go-as-you-please paddle in Mel-
bourne’s soupy Yarra, from Hawthorn Bridge to Princes
Bridge a distance of some eight miles. Apart from the
efforts of a couple of 15-year-old youngsters—Harrison
and McLaren—the affair proved tiresome. The paddlers
left Hawthorn in the vicinity of 3.30, and arrived at the
city about seven. Lamb dived from all the bridges on
the journey, but this was a feat he had accomplished on
' a prior paddle. Out of a field of 15 swimmers six managed
to locate home, sweet home. Miss Boobier stirred the
wet with elephantine movements, and though she covered
the distance and dived from the Botanical bridge into
the bargain, she never attained the fishlike ease of an
Annette Kellerman. However, the Richmond flatites
swarmed along the banks of the drain like flies,
and the number of boats in attendance broke all records.
In writer’s humble opinion there were several screws
loose in the management. Some of the nippers swam
practically unattended and might have gone under from
exhaustion and no one would have been the wiser. Dis-
tance swimming is worthy of encouragement, but such-
like paddles require closer supervision than Saturday’s
affair got.
This year the Australasian swimming champion-
ships eventuate in Sydney, and the deciding place will be
the new Municipal Baths on the shores of the Domain.
The last occasion when the championship contests were
held in the N.S.W. capital was 1904. It was made
memorable by the beginning of Kieran’s meteoric career ;
on the first day that invincible swimmer downed the
formidable Dick Cavill in the half-mile, and thereby
upset the apple-cart generally. Sydney swimmers are
anxious to see Frank Beaurepaire, who, with his foreign
honors thick upon him, will represent Victoria against a
team of local swimmers.
* ♦ * *
Some idea of the fettle Beaurepaire is in can be
gauged by his performance in the 600yds. championship
of Victoria on Saturday last at Stubbs’ Baths, South Mel-
bourne. He went to the front almost immediately he
struck the water, and at 300yds. put on. pace and estab-
lished a lead of 20yds. on Mason, who was swimming
strongly. He maintained the lead to the end, establish-
ing a new Victorian record of 6min. 45sec.
« • * *
After carrying off the Vanderbilt Cup with a
Yankee-built 120-h.p. locomobile, the Americans came to
utter smash in the great American Grand Prize Race on
the Savannah circuit. The U.S.A. was represented by
six cars, Italy by six, France by five, and Germany by
three—2o cars in all. Of the 10 cars that ran the whole
402 miles, not one was of Yankee build. The circuit was
25 miles, and from the jump Nazzaro, the Italian,
forced the pace, and the speed became a dizzy
whoop, in some parts of the course exceeding 100 miles
an hour. After 150 had been flashed over Hanriot was
leading, with Nazzaro in the Fiat on his wheel, and
the Yankees were right out of it. All had been left
behind by the foreigners. At 325 miles Italy was leading
handsomely, but tyre troubles brought Nazzaro’s career
to a sudden close. Wagner, in another Fiat, rushed on to
victory, shouting defiance at Hemery in the German
Benz car as he howled past him. The German
came again, and, roaring up behind, looked as
though he would sweep past the Italian car, driven by
the man whom the German press describe as a renegade.
But the Fiat, running level for a few seconds, again drew
away, and finally won by the narrow margin of 56sec.
Hemery was second, and Nazzaro, who had re-
paired his tyres, came into third place, only 7min.
20sec. behind the second. Wagner won a magnificent
goblet, containing 251 b. of gold and worth £lOOO, and
£BOO in cash; Hemery received £4OO, and the cursing
Nazzaro had to be content with a paltry £2OO for less
than seven hours’ driving.
* * • *
The Cyclists Union of N.S.W., the governing
amateur body, is now busy arranging for the annual Aus-
tralasian Championships meeting, which will eventuate
at the Sports Ground, Sydney, some time about the
middle of February. The date cannot be fixed ; a well-
known sport named Rawson proposes to open the Bhow,
and as he is a busy man it is not quite certain which
Wednesday night of the month he will be free. Queens-
land is sending a formidable team.
• * * *
O. H. Brook, one-time N.S.W. champion
cyclist, who gave up the cycle “ because he couldn’t be a
professional cyclist and remain a Christian,” is alleged to
be after the lucre once more, and a challenge to all and
sundry is broadly spread about. When Brook gave up
the racing, he left a big hole in the pastime, and, as he
has only been off the path for about a year, he should easily
recapture the whole of that hole. The question is—has
Brook left off being a Christian 1
* * * *
The Adelaide-Sydney relay cycle ride, which is
being organised by the Dunlop Rubber Co., threatens to
be a big thing. Both the cycle trade and the riders along
the track are responding vigorously. Already over 100
riders have volunteered for the job, and long before
Easter the Dunlop Co. reckons it will be able to make an
excellent choice of 120 men. (To obviate the breaking-
down of relays the cyclists will ride in pairs over
the 60 sections into which the road will be divided.)
At present the co. is trying to make up its mind which
route it will adopt through the dreaded Coorong Desert.
It was proposed to adopt the short cut through to
Narracoorte, but the Mount Gambier Club is particularly
anxious that the route chosen should be via its town, and
as an inducement hasoffered to provide riders for a stretch
of over 250 miles, from Meningie (S. A.) to Casterton (Vic.).
This magnificent offer will probably turn the scale in
favor of the road via Robe and Millicent. The
despatch will leave Adelaide on the Thursday night pre-
ceding Good Friday, and travelling day and night will be
due in Sydney on Monday morning, a matter of about 80
hours at an average speed of 14 miles an hour from start
to finish. The promoters will present every rider who
takes part in the rush with a handsome medallion.
Ambitious cyclists should communicate at once with the
Dunlop Rubber Co., 108 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
• • * *
Track cycle-racing is on the decline everywhere
but in France and Germany. In the land of upturned
mos. and sauerkraut £51,500 was awarded as prize money
to 1494 races ; and Robl again scored the lion’s share of it
with £2850, which was considerably increased by per-
centages received from manufacturers. So the advice to
the youth, in Germany at any rate, is, “ Go on the wheel,
young man ; go on the wheel.”
„ # * *
Floyd MacFarland, sometime “handicap king,”
is now a “scorcher” on European roads, where he will be
seen with his eyes fixed mechanically on the highway 7, a
few inches in front of his wheel, and his jaw working
spasmodically as he sucks at a stone. MacFarland is not
by any means played out—not by long chalks. On points
he heads the Yankee riders with a score of 230. Austra-
lian A. J. Clarke is second with 215, and Frank Kramer
third with just one less.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League is negotiating for the
visit of a Northern Union team to Australia and Maori-
land next season. Manager J. J. Giltinan, of the League
team in England, is in the front of the battle, and a
guarantee of £3OOO is held aloft as an inducement. Might
he as well if Giltinan considered how many shillings are
required to make up £3OOO.
* * * *
Parramatta (N.S.W.) Bowling Club put a
rather ancient rink in a match recently. W. Board (74),
O J. Byrnes (73), F. A. Macqueen (72) and F. C. Cox (71)
blew themselves out and put up a performance worth
raving about by defeating a batch of young ’uns badly by
34 to 18. The club has a standing challenge to opposing
clubs for a one-rink match for players over 70.
* * * *
Phillips and MeCause, a couple of venturous
Bendigo athletes, who started off with the desire to walk
round the world, have abandoned the tommy rot.
Originally they heeled-and-toed from Bendigo (Vic.) and
walked to Sydney ; thence they took boat to Maoriland ;
but when Phillips got into the hospital at Wellington, the
sponge was thrown up in token of tiredness and sore feet.
-K * * *
The Lang-Squires disturbance has been defi-
nitely fixed for February 3 at the Stadium, Rushcutters’
Bay, Sydney. Squires is training at Toronto, under
Jimmy Russell, whoever he may be. Exactly how much
training Lang will require after his heavy work with
Johnson has not been made public, but presumably it
will be very little—just sufficient to keep him from going
back. _ .
* * *
“F.” : Seems to me that Bill Lang should beat
Squires in a “square" go if his mentor, Johnson, can
teach him to keep his head up. In their exhibition spars
on the Rickards stage it is noticeable that Lang has an
instinctive tendency to drop his chin when he delivers a
punch at close quarters. Johnson always looks at what
he’s doing, but Lang is often a blind swiper, as a cricketer
would say. When he fought Burns he lost as much by his
own flinches as by the other fellow’s clinches. My simple
amateur judgment of boxers inclines to the one who keeps
his head up and his eyes fixed on his opponent. He
strikes me as being own brother to the jockey or foot-
racer who never looks over his shoulder in a tight finish,
and the billiardist who refrains from looking at the score
board.
One thing is certain —as Omar Khayyam says—
and that is that the Yankee style of in-fighting has to go,
as far as boxing in N.S. W. is concerned. The authorities
won’t stand it, and if it is persisted in, boxing will be a
lost art hereabouts, and will vanish quite. And, anyhow,
the Yankee in-fighting is a most objectionable feature. It
brings a boxing-match down to the level of a rough-and-
tumble. The only argument that can be adduced in its
favor is that unless we allow it, we have no chance of pro-
ducing another world champion. When the man who has
fought with a clean break finds himself in the ring with a
man who has always engaged in in-fighting, he is a help-
less wight indeed. Of course the question whether we
want to produce world-walloping bruisers is quite another
affair. And yet, again, there are times when one can see
defects in the clean-break style of fighting. When one
man gets home his wallop, and then clinches, and saves
himself by hanging on, round after round, it gets irri-
tating to the spectator ; and in one sudden moment he
becomes a convert to in-fighting. He remains so till he
sees what ought to be a good boxing-match degenerate
into a mere rough-and-tumble. Then he goes back to the
clean break.
•.* * *
If there was ever any doubt as to the Mel-
bourne push’s sympathy with Burns after his disastrous
scrap one has only to look at the biograph ads. on the
street hoardings. Johnson’s brown picture is invariably
mud-bespattered or torn, and, wherever in reach, it is
decked with.such written legends as “The Black Cow,”
“ The big black skite,” and worse—far worse. Also in many
instances yellow crayons have been freely used to fill in
the famous alleged streak. Burns’s pictures bear no signs
of disfigurement, and “Good old white man,” “You’ll
out him next time, Tommy,” and “ Big-heart Burns ” are
superscriptions that tell their own tale. The writer
heard a couple of Bourke-street “ rats ” discussing the
fight under one of these hoardings. “ Gam ! ” said one, a
quarter-caste or thereabout, “Johnsing beat’im square
an’all. Why don’t yer give him credit f’r it ? ” “Why?”
answered the other, after deftly transferring his used-up
quid to Johnson’s eye, “ Y’ oughter be passed one yerself
—barrackin’ fer a nigger! ’’ From such signs of the
times it is' safe to say that, when the colored invader
happens along, the push’s Australaise won’t be quite as
“ literary ” as recent “ Red Page ” efforts, but it will be
forceful. Perhaps (with apologies to “ Den.”): —
See, the yellow blankers come ;
Blokes, this ’ere means lash.
Never mind the fife an’ drum,
Bash 1 y’ blankers, bash 1
Sight ’em there, cull? You, blokes, you 1
Who’s afraid to face ’em now ?
Pass ’im out, the blanky cow 1
Bash I y’ blankers, bash !
And with a chorus, perhaps
Ho, the gory taste of blood !
’Stralia’s monniker ain’t mud 1
Snorky, Brick-top, Stinker, Spud,
Bash ! y’ blankers, bash 1
* * * *
“D.”: The wild outburst of snuffle that filled
columns of the daily papers in N.S.W. and Vic. for days
after the Burns-Johnson medley has died away apparently
to recrudesce no more. The fact convinces me of a thing
I had suspected from the inception of the said outburst—
viz., that the raging torrent of excitable language was
engineereed mainly by clerics. Consider this report of
the recent Blackmore-Summers scrap
“ Smeared all over with the blood of his opponent,
Jack Blackmore, the local welter-weight, forced the
seconds of Joe Summers, the alleged welter and middle-
weight champion of Canada, to throw in the towel during
the progress of the ninth round of a 20-round battle at
the Stadium last night. The contest was very one-sided
and one of the most bloody on record. Early in the
second round the Canadian’s nose was split as the result
of receiving a stiff left hook, the wound bleeding pro-
fusely." , „
“ The local boxer kept his left in his opponent’s face ail
the time, every now and then crossing his right, and
landing over the left eye. Blood was pouring from Sum-
mers’s nose and mouth, while the occasional visitations of
Blackmore’s right over his eye blackened and opened the
flesh. The blood spurted out with every additional blow,
until both men looked like Red Indians.”
And so on. Did Bishop Stretch, Rev. North Ash,
“ Father of Ten,” and the rest rush the newspaper offices
with written protests against this “degrading spec-
tacle,” and denounce Summers and Blackmore as
“ human bloodhounds,” “un-English,” and “ disgraces to
the Flag and Empire ” ? They did not. I think the reason
is that but an inconsiderable number of threepenny bits
were sacrificed at the box-office of the Blackmore-
Summers argument. It was the vastness of the Burns-
Johnson gate money that revolted the parsonical mind
last month. The soul-savers didn’t object to the blood-
shed in reality. It was when they brought £26,000 to
shillings and multiplied it by four, and looked at the
impressive result that agony overcame them, and
impelled them, stylo in hand, to their writing-desks.
* * * •
Billy Papke, who hit out Stanley Ketchel for
the middle-weight stoush championship of the globe in
the U.S. recently, was still more recently outed by
Ketchel at 'Frisco in eleven rounds. In this scrap the
form of bothbruisers was so inconsistent with that shown
in the previous rudeness that people winked and whis-
pered “ fake ” ; but, as the men were reputed to love one
another with the love of Burns for Johnsing, the imputa-
tion was mostly ridiculed. Anyhow, if Mr. Ketchel had
any too friendly feeling for Mr. Papke, he nobly sup-
pressed it. With this victory, Ketchel climbs back into
his old position of middle-weight champion. He is am-
bitious, and is already declared to be looking Australia-
wards. He is known to desire Burns’ scalp immediately,
and then he may consider Johnson. In a couple of years
Ketchel will be in the heavy-weight class (he already finds
some difficulty in fighting in the middle-weight division);
he is rapidly building up all over, and is not yet 23.
* * » *
Adelaide Register publishes the S.A. totalisa-
tor figures for 1908. They are by far the best on record,
partly owing to the State’s general prosperity, and partly
to the Gaming Act, which makes every form of wagering
except on a racecourse tote utterly illegal. The racing
clubs have enthusiastically helped to enforce the Act,
and have put through the machine (for about 70 days
racing all over the State, Port Darwin included) £353,000,
as against £240,000 in 1907. Government took £BB5O as
tax, the clubs took £26,000 as commission—and already
an all-round increase of stakes is announced.
AN AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
For the past five years Dr. Morse’s Indiam Root
Pills have been manufactured in Australia, and
we believe they are the only purgative pills on the
market that are made in this country by the pro-
prietors. Most other pills are made by manufac-
turing chemists and sold in bulk to the speculative
pill com panies to be boxed and labelled. We take
no chance of this kind with Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and we know that the formula does
not vary one-hundredth part of a grain. We also
know that the ingredients are up to the standard,
both in strength and quality. The crude material
is imported direct, being ground by our own
machines in our American laboratory, where
the greatest care is observed in the selection
of the roots and gums from which this crude
material is made. We have, both in Sydney
and Wellington (New Zealand), up-to-date
plants for the manufacture of these pills, and
should any of our friends be interested we will be
only too pleased to show them the process of
manufacture.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a safe and reliable remedy for
biliousness, constipation, indigestion, headaches,
sallow conplexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles,
pimples, boils, and for female ailments.


fUJGELM ANN’S
s
©
©
<& „
r
I
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
wnt on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUQELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The SUMMER is here, and with it has cgme the “ SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Med low Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
TKLKriIONF.S
( 4340 Central.
"( 2d liatoomba.
Full Details at CITY OFFICE,
38 Caetlereagh Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
ś
THIN PEOPLE.
THERE is now no reason why every man or woman should
not acquire or regain a Perfect Figure. If you want
to add flesh, be made plump and rosy, gain weight,
strength and beauty, send for a Free Trial Treatment of
the “ Miracula” Nerve Food and Flesh Developer.
This newly-discovered Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing
Agent and Flesh Builder. It will soon put your nerves
right, tone up your digestive organs ; and the alteration in you
will astonish yourself and friends. Would you like to have
perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all
scragginess ? You can easily obtain this blessing if you
write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps to pay postage
on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
df
London Spociolitios Agoncy, Dept. A, 44 Gastlereagh St., Sydney.
m
I
BIN Si
A BOOK AS A GIFT
Just pen your name and address on a post-card and send it to
us, and we will forward you our big finely-illustrated Catalogue
for the New Year. It describes the B. &B. Model 3 Cycle
that costs only JEII, and is fitted with any first-class tyres
and guaranteed a year.
SIT DOWN and WRITE NOW !
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest Cycle-building
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagti Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
MADE
PLEURO VIRUS
of Proven Value.
30,000 Head Innoculated
AND NOT A SWOLLEN TAIL.
Write us for particulars—
DONALD ROSS 8 CO. LTD., Angel Place, Sydney,
The Leading Veterinary
Supply Store.
PAUNTS
Coilison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS,
obtained In all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
Cut
Price
Plows
We have in stock 538 Plows
of standard makes on which
we have made cuts in price
of from 20 to 40 per cent
U£OL
§22
vs
Of some kinds we have but
one or two sizes, but if the
sizes suit you the prices are
sure to, as they show a great
saving over the lowest pro-
curable elsewhere.
nc
The Plows are all new, in
perfect condition, and of that
high standard of quality
associated with the names of
/7> “ COCKSHUTT,”
Y DEERE” and “OLIVER ."
Every one of them, whether
it be single furrow mould-
board, multi-furrow mould-
board, or disc, is fully
guaranteed.
Any Plow buyer who gives
an order before getting our
Post Free Booklet describing
and pricing these Plows fails
to consider his pocket book.
INTERNATIONAL
Harvester company
OF AMERICA
( Incorporated)
Roma Street, Brisbane: 37 Broadway.
Sydney: 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Bank Street. Adelaide: 75 York Street.
Launceston.
LOVERS’ ENGYGLtMIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
the knowledge imparted by this book unlocks the gate. It
considers the whole subject from the time you meet until
you two are one. Valuable chapters about dress, personal
appearance, cure for bashfulness, many things heretofore
secrets. Reproductions of curious love letters and Fifteen
Hundred tit-bits in prose and poetry that you can find
daily use for. P.N., 2/6; posted, 2/8 (stamps, 2/10) will bring the
book by mail,and happiness with one you love. Anglo-Am-
erican Pub’ngCo. George St. Sydney. Mention this paper
THE BALLET GIRL
mb
*
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froe, 18.
The Life, Adventures,
and Concessions of a.
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
S«nd Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties.
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY .
ooo'in
The WaybacK Series*
Australia Laughed,! I ! No. S.
and keevs laughing . Red Harry is.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant dis-
courses on old homes and the dwellers therein :
Another of the mansions of our “ old Sydney nobility ”
is being demolished—Petersleigh, on Cook’s River Road,
opposite St. Peter’s Church. Time was when Cook’s
River Road was aristocratic ; now it is decadent. In the
’fifties the road was a part of “Swell Sydney.” The
Duguids lived out that way, and Michael Metcalfe, the
well known underwriter, occupied Petersleigh. Rev.
William Savigny had his collegiate school on the road,
and the Talbots of the wool store owned Bellevue. Saul
Samuel, afterwards Agent-General for N.S.W. and a
baronet, was living at The Grange. Samuel H. Terry,
who later on became M.L. A. for Mudgee, was close handy ;
and at Cook’s River Dam was Tempe, built in the
long ago by A. B. Spark, merchant, who also built Tuscu-
lum, in Macleay-street, afterwards William Long’s pro-
perty. Further out was Wanstead, F. Unwin’s home.
Unwin was an old-time solicitor, in whose office, in
the ’thirties, was the original of the Want family. The
old yard around St. Peter’s Church holds the remains of
many notable people—among them R. P. Raymond, the
old Postmaster-General; Tomlcely, M.L.C., of Coombing
Park, Carcoar ; and the mother of B. R. Wise. Over the
grave of the lady is a white marble slab with Tennyson’s
“ Crossing the Bar ” cut in gold. St. Peter’s at one time
had Rev. C. 0. Kemp as rector. This gentleman married
the widow of William Toogood, who kept the Golden
Fleece pubbery on the N.E. corner of King and George
streets. Rev. Kemp induced his wife, who owned the
corner, to discontinue it as a hotel, and the City Bank
started business there in 1863. Rev. J. S. Hassall at one
time, when a bachelor, had St. Peter’s. Shea’s Creek and
its odor drove the ancient nobles of Sydney off the Cook’s
River Road.
“ Melba ” helps to open a Legislature :
I went along to the opening of the Vic. State Legisla-
ture, and enjoyed a gorgeous free show. Chief Justice
Madden, with Justice Hood as chief bottle-holder, held
the centre of the stage, and contributed largely to the
enjoyment of all present (as the social reporters say).
Glorious in scarlet, they looked like a pair of Lord Chan-
cellors out of “ lolantbe.” The rest of the House was
very drab and dull. Frank Madden easily took the dandy
prize, while the shabbiest man in the crowd was the new
Premier, Jack Murray. Very remarkable was the number
of bald and lame men on the Bent side. The Labor men
are nearly all young, with just a sprinkling of oldsters
(mostly new members). Tommy Bent waddled in with
the same old air of ownership, but wasn’t listened to
with the same old attention. One rude member wanted
to know who the deuce Tommy was. Before taking the
oath Adolphus made the discovery that the Bible con-
tains reading matter, and he read a couple of chapters
over to Frank Anstey while waiting his turn. It may
have been Exodus, or perhaps Revelation ; but both
Bent and Anstey seemed to find it very funny. Tommy
wears his spectacles on the top of his head, probably to
let light into his brain. The only other specia -led men
in the House are Murray and Bow-wow (or Bo\.ser) of
Wangaratta. A long wrangle took place over the election
of a Speaker, and finally Frank Madden cantered home
for the third tipie. Beazley might have had the position
(the corner WM/s&jd for him), but his Labor colleagues
didn’t want tbTcse’a vote.
The customary Christmas complaint against
“postal delays” came along this year from an
Argus correspondent, who railed at great length
because a telegram reached him a few hours after
it would have done if he’d been running the
business. Yet the one or two lone complaints
were really a splendid advertisement when one
considers that on Christmas Eve the Melbourne
telegraph operating staff of 180 handled no less
than 1036 cables and 30,551 other messages, the
election business having to be dealt with besides
the usual holiday and “ Merry Christmas ” traffic.
During that week the postal staffs received 6459
mail bags and sent out 5351. The suburban
pillar-clearers brought in 2,000,000 letters in the
six days, which huge total didn’t include missives
posted at the G.P.0., or those from the country,
or parcels. Right in the middle of the rush, at
8 p.m. on the Tuesday, an English mail of 393
4-ft. mail-bags was heaved in ; that lot was mostly
sorted on the way from Adelaide, but there was still
much to be done with it. And, so far, there hasn’t
been even one published complaint about the cor-
respondence branch of this wonderful socialistic
undertaking.
It comes out now that the Victorian
Auditor-General made a forcible protest against
the payment of moneys without Parliamentary
authority. It was only after the defeated Cabinet
had fixed up an agreement with the Liberals that
Bruford’s condemnation was admitted ; and only
then was it learned that the State Governor had
signed no warrants for payments in excess of
supply. Bent and Co. had paid away public
money entirely on their own, and the conse-
quences of that are liable to be serious. This,
no doubt, was one reason why the Tory crowd
moved Heaven and earth to nobble the Liberals ;
it probably also helps to explain why Bent and
Co. declined to resign until Carmichael practically
demanded they should do so. It, moreover, ex-
plains Bent’s eagerness to entangle Swinburne,
and it likewise casts some light on the gas-man’s
refusal to wholly tie himself to the Jobber; also
it accounts for a lot of the anxiety to “ keep the
Earty together.” Labor must make an effort to
ave the full facts published, even though it isn’t
strong enough to enforce the penalty.
Sands and McDougall’s “ Melbourne ”
Directory for 1909 is to hand. The bulky volume
contains 132 more pages than last year’s edition,
the main increase being in the country section
which has extended its directorate to 700 towns
and townlets in all. The old term, “Melbourne
Directory,” is now something of a libel on Sands
and Mac.’s publication. There are street maps
of Ballarat and Bendigo in the latest issue, and,
though mainly Melbournian, it is about as repre-
sentatively Victorian as any business man can
want it to be.
“ Harrison O.” writes :
An obscure Victorian ex-politician, William Gurr, who
has just been relegated by his late constituents into the
unmitigated oblivion from which he should never have
been permitted to emerge, won an unenviable distinction
during the late Victorian elections. Gurr sat in Parlia-
ment as a supporter of the awful Bent, but when Murray
moved his want-of-confidence motion and things were
going against Adolphus, Gurr promptly changed over and
voted with Murray. There was nothing very remarkable
in this ; at about the same time quite a number of other
people discovered that they had lost confidence in the
lamentable Thomas Adolphus. After the dissolution,
Gurr went down to Geelong (which hamlet he then mis-
represented) and abused Bent in a most praiseworthy
manner. Then he discovered that a Ministerial candidate
was to be run against him, and he feared muchly, and
rushed up to Melbourne without even taking a tooth-
brush, and wept on Bent’s useless bosom, and explained
that it was all a horrid mistake. They then shook hands
three times and he (Gurr) became the nominee of the
then Bent (but now Broke) party. Of all the late Bent
supporters who voted against their leader, Gurr was the
only one who again changed round and hollered in favor
of the disgraceful old man. The contemplation of this
unique acrobatic performance left Geelong stupefied with
amazement for about a week. Then it girded up its col-
lective loins and went out and voted all it knew for
William Plain.
Policemen who believe in lucky and un-
lucky stations are up against a tough proposition
in the Marryatville (S.A.) job. The last three
men who occupied ’the post have all come to a
rapid end, and two of them so violently that the
Commissioner of Police finds it difficult to induce
anyone to be the fourth victim. The first took it
into his head to commit suicide ; the second had
only been transferred to Glenelg for a short time
before he was murdered by a fisherman ; and the
third (Constable Hyde) provided target practice
for three desperadoes. Hyde intercepted one of
half-a-dozen bullets and went to the Heavenly
Beat a few days later.
“D.” : David Storey in his letter to the
Herald (7/l/’O9) urging—disinterestedly of course
—that C. G. Wade shall be appointed Chief Justice
ofN.S.W. in Darley’s place makes one curious
“ break.” Says David, with all the bland imper-
turbable calm of the profession.'.! hatter:—
I have no doubt the Executive will do the right thing.
I believe the consensus of opinion is that the present
Premier, who has been Attorney-General for over four
years, and, all things considered, is first in the running,
will have the refusal of the coveted position.
Living the sequestered life he doubtless does
among his “gent’s felts,” “lad’s boaters” and
things, Storey has never learned that a Chief
Justiceship is a billet no man ever gets “the
refusal of.” It is not considered meet that this
high position should be hawked about the lobbies
and barristers’ chambers. And so likely aspirants
are sounded with infinite delicacy by their inti-
mate friends beforehand. The job is not “ offered ”
till the possibility of a “refusal” is rather re-
moter than the Day of Judgment.
Died at Heidelberg, near Melbourne, on
December 9, Mrs. Doyle, widow of James Doyle,
journalist, who was on the Dublin Nation in
Charles Gavan Duffy’s time. When the latter
emigrated to Victoria, in company with the late
Wilson Gray, Mr. Doyle followed, and became
sub-editor of the Age. In those days Ebenezer
Syme was editor. Mrs. Doyle was 75 years of
age, and had survived her husband 37 years.
Thus Richard Teece, of the A.M.P.
Society, newly returned from England :
It is their inordinate conceit that is the matter with
the English. Because the English had their own way in
the world 50 years ago they think they can have it still.
.... Unless she alters considerably England will sink to
be a country of the rank of Switzerland—a hunting
ground for American tourists. . . . The English methods
are quite out of date, and they will not adopt new ones.
.... They don’t want to change. They are utterly
ignorant of matters outside England, and they don’t seem
to me to want to know of them —the majority at least...
I don’t know what is coming to England. The older
generation will not move. The younges generation is
worse. I should say the English are lazy. They are
ambitionless, and the younger generation is the most
ambitionless of the lot. If a man gets a comfortable
£2OO he is quite content to lie back and rest.
He doesn’t even seem to want to get on.
There is a great depression to-day, and they have
themselves to blame for the depression. . . . There are
very many unemployed. . . . The English are thoroughly
ignorant of what goes on outside of England. They
seemed to me not merely not enthusiastic about the
colonies, but actually hostile to them. ... I found
their moral tone low compared with curs. . . . The
moral tone in English business is what I call a low one.
A great shop in Regent-street will not have a fixed price
to take or refuse as our shops would have. I have had
them bargain like Cingalese. . . . When England goes
to war there will be 80,000 trained Germans there, all
hotel waiters, waiting to take up arms.


GIFTS THAT PLEASE THE MOST
A Handsome Piece of A. SAUNDERS’ TABLE SILVER is
Always Acceptable, and it is the most Permanently
Useful and Satisfactory Gift you can make.
The following give a hint of the values we
offer. Rich, tasteful, and substantial, they
ably represent our high quality at economy
prices
Your selection will be carefully packed to
ensure safe delivery, and sent carriage free
to any address in Australasia. Write for
our 304-page Illustrated Catalogue.
m
r ''
A. SAUNDERS.
Souvenir EMU EGG, Hand-carved, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Ebonised Wood Base. Height
10J inches. 20/-
Other Styles 10/6, 15/6, SO/, 40/, 60/, 60/.
FLOWER VASE, Eure
Silver-plated, detachable
Tube, Gilt Lined, bin
high. g/6-
Other Styles, 4/6, 7/6,
10/6.
TOAST RACK, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Hand-
somely Embossed Base.
£2/./.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
Ll'<£
afla
£|r(3
MOW
OJS
duzjuuu
ddaDBB
BREAKFAST CRUET,
3-Bottle, Fine Cut
Crystal Glass Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated.
12/6
Other Stvles, 7/6, 10/6,
15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BOX, Self-acting Lid, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed and Fluted, Oval or Round.
Size, llin x 9in.
£3/-/-
Other Styles, £4/4/, £5/5.
liOT-WATER KETTLE and
STAND, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Rustic Stand, Richly
Embossed. £2/-/-
Plain, 35/. Other Styles, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
M
£4/4/-
m PRESENTATION TEA and COFFEE SERVIi 'E, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, comprising
Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream, Richly Engraved, Gilt-lined, with Covers. £4/4/. Made expressly for
us by James Dixon and Sons. J
Other Styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/. £l5, £2O, to £5O.
£4/4 1-
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR, Fine Cut Crys-
tal Glass, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Frame,
25 /-
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6,
15/, 17/6.
BREAD or CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Ivory Handle, 9in loner.
7/6
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Pure Sil-
ver-plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality,
Gilt Lined, “Water Lily” Design.
£2/-/-
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
FERN POT, Pure
plated, Richly Fluted
bossed. Size, 4in.
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6,
Silver-
and Em-
-12/6, 15/.
SALT-POURER, Pure
Silver-mounted, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass.
3/6
Other Styles, 5/6,
6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
mMSm
mm
mm
S!T~£
m
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE, FRUIT, or CHEESE DISH, with SERVER,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Base, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass Dish.
25/.
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
mmwiiim
PRESENTATION FRUIT and FLOWER EPERGNE
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Richly Orna- ’
mented Base, Fine Cut Crystal Glass.
Height, 21in.
£2/-/-
Other Styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5, to £l5.
BREAD KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Handle
Embossed, Finest Sheffield Steel Blade '
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/.
Richly
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
JUVENILE MUG, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Gilt Lined.
15/6
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6,' 7/6
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, Stag Design, Pure
25/-
Handsomely Engraved, Fine Cut
Bottle. Size, 9in x 6in.
Other Styles, 35/, £2, £2AO/,
Silver-plated,
Crystal Glass
£3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Dish ’ AI QUa ity ’ Ruby or Gr een Glass
Other Styles,
20/-
10/6, 13/6, 10/, 17/6.
SALT - SHAKER,
Pure Silver Top,
Fine Cut Crystal
Glass Base.
ai 3/6
Salt-pourer to Match,
3/6.
SPECIMEN TUBE, Pare
Silver-plated, Gilt Lined,
Weighted Base. Height,
6in, 4/6 ; 61in, 5/6; 7in,
6/6; 7iin, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN and SIFTER. Pure Silver-
plated, Richly Fluted, Gilt Lined, jg/g
Other Styles, lu/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
‘Vi f ■
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG STAND, 2 Cups and Spoons, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Gilt, Richly
Fluted.
25/-
Other Styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
mi
PRESENTATION DINNER CRUET, 6-Bottle,
Pine Cut Crystal Glass Bottles, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality.
£3/-/-
Other Styles, 30/ 35/, 40/, 50', 60/, 70/, 80/.
SnzKJZKjZZj
mgm
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Sil-
ver, Hand-engraved Lid and Base, Crystal Glass
Dish.
9/6
A 1 Quality, 10/6.
TT;
A. SAUNDERS.
“GONDOLIER” PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver Frame, Milled Glass Dish.
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Carlton China Base.
207-
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6,
10/6, 12/6.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


The Choice of Her Majesty is
The KODAK
RING OF ALL CAMERAS.
f r
m
u.
All the photographs appearing in that most delightful publication, “ Queen Alexandra’s
Christmas Gift Book,” were made with a Kodak, and it stands to reason that the camera
selected for her Majesty’s personal use is the one most likely to please you.
The Kodak is the most flattered of all cameras, because it is most constantly imitated.
There is but one genuine “Kodak,” and that is the “EASTMAN.” However good the
imitation may be, the “Kodak ” is infinitely superior at all points which make for good and
economical photography.
One very important point with Kodaks is that no dark room of any kind is necessary, and
all work can be done in daylight any time, anywhere.
Here are details of four of the most popular Kodaks :
FOLDING BROWNIE No. 2.
A dainty little Camera and a general favorite
with young folk, many grown-ups, too. Makes a
rectangular picture 2!in. x 3£in. —the Camera
measuring 6|in. x 3§in. x 2§in., the weight being
only 16oz. Fitted with Meniscus Lens and
Reversible Finder.
PRICE, 21/-. Postage extra, 9d.; Inter-
State, 1/2.
No. 3 FOLDING POCKET KODAK.
Simplicity and compactness, combined with
great adaptability to a wide range of conditions,
have made this Camera a remarkable success.
While it can be readily carried in an overcoat
pocket, it is quite large enough for serious pic-
torial work—being the ever-popular quarter-plate
size, 3|in. x 4^in.
With this you can make 12 exposures without
reloading, ar.d the weight of the Camera is but
23nss. The lens is a Rapid Rectilinear, and the
shutter F.P.K. Automatic. Fitted with brilliant
Reversible Finder with hood.
PRICE, £3/12/6. Postage extra, 1/3;
Inter-State, 2/2.
You can order
direct from this
advertisement, or
write for beauti-
fully illustrated
booklets giving
further details.
Our new General
Catalogue, con-
taining over 400
pages and hun-
dreds of illustra-
tions, is ready.
Ask for a copy.
No. h FOLDING POCKET KODAK.
An ideal instrument for the tourist, as it folds
into such small space.
Makes 12 rectangular pictures x
without reloading. Only weighs 160 z., and is
fitted with a Meniscus Achromatic Lens, Pocket
Automatic Shutter, and brilliant Reversible
Finder.
PRICE, £2/10/- Postage extra, 1/-; Inter-
State, 1/8.
No. 3a FOLDING POCKET KODAK.
The Camera illustrated here weighs only 410 z.,
and embraces all the practical features of Carneys
several times its bulk, yet still retains the Kodak
simplicity, making it satisfactory for novice or
expert.
Takes pictures 3 Jin. x sJin. —the popular post
card size—and is fitted with a Rapid Rectilinear
Lens and the F.P.K. Automatic Shutter—two
tripod sockets —brilliant Reversible Finder with
hood, Automatic Focussing Lock.
PRICE, <£4/10/- Postage extra, 1/3 ; Inter-
State, 2/2.
BaKer ®, Rouse Proprietary Ltd
Sole Agents for AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
HOW TO EXPAND THE SPAN OF LIFE!
AVOID CONSTIPATION.
DY neglecting irregularity of the bowels the victim is inflicting on himself or herself untold
agony for the future. Permanent relief from this baneful disorder is easily obtained
by using Kutnow’s Powder. And why? Because Kutnow’s Powder is Natures own
remedy, in which are incorporated certain health-giving properties of the most famous
European spas. It acts gently, speedily and efficiently. Try it at once.
Mrs. L. MARTIN writes:
“ Cornfield, Lavagh, Ballymote, Co. Sligo,
“ 30th March, 1908.
“ Gentlemen, —I got a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder lately for a boy
of ten, who suffered from biliousness. He is wonderfully improved since
taking your Powder ; his health is now quite good. You may make what
use you like of my letter, as it may be the means of curing others.
“ Faithfully yours,
“ Mrs. L. MARTIN.”
How to Guard Against Fraud!
There is only one genuine Kutnow’s Powder. All conscientious
Chemists supply it throughout the World. Be careful to avoid spurious
substitutes which often cause irreparable injury to health. See that the
fac-simile signature, ‘*S. KutnOW & Go., Ld., :> and the registered
trade mark, “ HirSChensprung or Deer Leap ; ” are on the carton and
bottle. You now know
How to Get Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
THE ONLY WAY
When you have obtained a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder, take a
dessertspoonful next morning before breakfast. Put the Powder in a
tumbler of water, which may be cold, tepid, or hot, allow it to effervesce,
and drink slowly. About 10 to 15 minutes later take a hot cup of tea to
hasten its action. After Kutnow’s Powder has acted, note the immediate
beneficial effect. You will find that you feel ever so much better, ready
for hard work, brighter and clearer in mind. It will make you eat well,
work well, and sleep well.
W. ROUGH AN, Esq., writes:
“ 106 High Street, Southampton,
“ 28th April, 1908.
“ Dear Sirs, —I beg to acknowledge with thanks the receipt of a
bottle of your celebrated Kutnow’s Powder. I may say, even by so small
a quantity, I have derived much benefit therefrom, thus testifying to its
excellent qualities.
“ Yours faithfully,
“ W. ROUGIIAN.”
SOLE PROPRIETORS :
. KUTNOW & CO. LTD., 41 Faningdon Road, London,
EC.
fg


IN BANANA LAND
One of the acclimatised products of Queens-
land for which the black and yellow labor policy
scarcely gets the discredit it deserves is the leper.
One day in December no less than 17 lepers from
the North—all but one of them colored people—
were added to the population of the colony of the
living dead at Peel Island.
“ Itan ” : It is strange that the public has
been so unbelieving about the fate of Ludwig
Leichhardt. It was during the wet season of
’5B that certain blacks, who were attached to a
hunting expedition between the Comet and Nogoa
Rivers, came across a mob of aborigines who told
them that a party of whites had been killed there-
abouts by the Comet tribe. They offered to show
the sportsmen where some of the cattle belonging
to the ill-fated expedition were still on deck and
eating grass. Sure enough they were found,
accompanied by a mule —Leichhardt’s property.
When Leichhardt’s nephew (Carl Sclimallfust)
heard this news he visited the locality, and
his inquiries convinced him that Leichhardt was
quite extinct. Soon after, a search-party was
formed in Sydney, headed by Birch, but it found no
traces of the German explorer north of the Nogoa.
Afterwards, a prisoner in a N.S.W. gaol declared
he knew where all the explorer’s papers were
hidden, and he was actually released in order that
he might show the spot, but he perished in the
attempt. If he didn’t know, he at least made a
valiant pretence of knowing. Dick Skuthorp
was supposed to have some inner knowledge of
the mystery, and it was said that he possessed
Leichhardt’s papers and had promised to pro-
duce them, but, whether he promised or not, the
papers were never forthcoming. In many places
trees marked “L.” by Landsborougli were mis-
taken for traces of Leichhardt, consequently the
ghost of the deceased was sent wandering in theory
over great areas of country where he had never
been.
One White Elephant—or Two?
San R. writes :—■
The Rockhampton to Port Alma railway line
(dropped for the present) has been referred
to a committee of three experts. It is a pro-
posal with a long history of struggle behind it.
The Port Alma Railway Bill has already been
introduced twice into the House by Premier
Kidston, and twice it has been shelved or
dropped. The bruise on the floor where it dropped
is still shown to inquiring visitors. In this matter
Kidston is between the Devil and the Great
Barrier Reef. Under pressure from Rockhampton
(his electorate) and from Mount Morgan he has
promised the railway. But Philp’s party cannot
support the construction of a railway upon the
southern bank of the Fitzroy River when its
Government built the present white elephant of a
line from Rockhampton to Broadmount on the
north bank. That alarming blunder, which
was part of Philp’s vigorous railway policy,
hasn’t paid for the axle grease used on it. When
Digby Denham was a Minister in the Morgan-
Kidston Government he told a deputation from
the Rockhampton Harbor Board that if he had
his way he would tear up the rails and transfer
the line to the southern bank of the river—Rock-
hampton to Port Alma. But it isn’t likely that
the Philp party will build the Port Alma line
and thus show itself up as the prize packet in
the way of foolish Governments for not seeing
the point before. Wherefore Kidston wears a
worried, haunted look these times. But
nowadays when William of Falkirk finds
himself between the Devil and the deep blue
sea with “office” right ahead he walks the
straight and narrow path. William takes no
risks these times if he can help it. His greatest
hazard as a mariner is that his ship will capsize for
want of ballast if he continues to jettison his
HER REFLECTION.
ADMIRER : “ Wish I could buy you the prettiest thing in this window."
SMART GIRL: “ Why can’t you?”
ADMIRER: “Because it moves off when you do."
cargo of principles at the present rate. Mean-
while, the history of the Broadmount versus Port
Alma railway struggle would be very amusing
were it not so costly a joke for the Queensland
Treasury. The Rockhampton Harbor Board
secured - from the late Philp Government the
E resent port and railway at Broadmount.
everal hundreds of thousands were sunk in
dredging, wharfage and railway construction.
Broadmount has been a horrible white elephant,
and there isn’t any guarantee that Port Alma
wouldn’t be another bleached mammoth. Prior
to the opening of Broadmount the Queensland
Government had constructed an expensive wharf
at Port Alma. Port Alma 4s nearly opposite
Broadmount, only a little further put of the river
mouth. After Broadmount was opened up, the
present Rockhampton Harbor Board (to which
was handed over the Port Alma wharf) entered
into agreement with the shipping companies and
the Rockhampton lighterage companies to use the
Port Alma wharf. As a result, 90 per cent, of what
little oversea or inter-State shipping comes to Kep-
pel Bay, discharges at Port Alma, and the cargo is
sent up the river in tenders and barges. Mean-
while the Broadmount wharf is rotting in idleness,
and grass is growing over the rails of the Broad-
mount-Rockhampton line. The Lake’s Creek
(Central Meat Export) Co. was one of the greatest
supporters of the Broadmount railway. This line
runs alongside its works, and it was boasted that
the trade in meat alone would almost keep the
line going. But the co. continued to send its
exports down the bay in tenders for transhipment
at Port Alma. As a matter of fact, if the Broad-
mount railway secured the carriage of all the
Keppel Bay trade, the line would still fail to pay.
This is upon the statistics of the shipping as it
stands at present. And if Rockhampton isn t
prosperous enough to keep one white elephant
alive, what chance would the little city have with
two pale megathariums sitting on its doorstep and
crying through the keyhole for food ? R. b.
Archer, chairman of the Rockhampton Harbor
Board, has of late been very active in booming
the Port Alma line. His letters to the Rock-
hampton press have run into columns ; in fact, one
occupied a whole page. But Archer’s advocacy
would be much more effective and also look a heap
more impartial if that wealthy landowner didnt
own so much ground on the proposed route of the
Port Alma line. The cutting up for closer settle-
ment of all this land before the railway enhances
its value would be a fair thing all round. Also it
would prove Archer to be a worthy citizen of
Rockhampton. And Rockhampton can do with
a few worthy citizens.
♦
The postal officials in Queensland are
looking anxiously for the person who posted the
live snake. If the packet hadn’t wriggled it
might have gone right along to its address, but
the restlessness of the packet caused somebody to
open it. Then the contents hurried all over the
premises, until an official turned the flank of the
article and smote it hard with something heavy.
Now, as already mentioned, the person who
posted the serpent is eagerly requested to call and
learn something to his disadvantage.
Aborigines tell hair-raising stories about
earthquakings their country suffered from in the
long ago. Mount Coora, a tableland rising north
of Gympie (Queensland), is said by old people of
the local tribe to have jumped up in one night,
while ridges farther north are held to have been
carried there from Kilkivan. Australia must at
some time have produced as fierce commotions as
any America or Italy can boast. Governor Phillip
was only half a year at Botany Bay when he
chronicled his first Australian earthquake. His
account runs: “It was felt by most people in
camp, and by the Governor himself, who heard at
the same time a noise in the South, which he took
at first to be the report qf guns fired at a great
distance. The earth teemed with a sulphurous
odor for some time after.” That was June 22,
1788.
The Queensland Legislative Council is evi-
dently a long-lived collection of fossils. Not one
member died last year, and this in spite of the
fact that the combined ages of ten of the crowd
total 780 years.
The black labor crowd, which declares that
tropical Queensland is a place “where the white
man can’t live,” has climbed down the trunk of
the tree of mendacity a good deal in recent years.
Now it sits in a lower tone at the root of the
premises, and says that, anyhow, even if the white
man can get on all right in Tropical Australia, the
white woman has a bad time there, and the birth-
rate goes to the dogs. But just here Common-
wealth Statistician Knibbs gets in the way. The
other day he issued some more Vital Statistics,
which may be summarised as follows :
Increase of Population per Annum by Excess of Births
over Deaths per 100,000 Inhabitants.
Queensland 1720 per 100,000 people
The Ooipmonwealth generally.. 1634 ~ ~ ~
Surplus in favor of tropical
Queensland 26 ~ ~ ~
And that is not all. There are three Australian
States —Queensland, Westralia and South Aus-
tralia—which extend into the tropics. Of these
South Australia has a very small tropical popula-
tion, and what it has is largely Chinese. But Wes-
tralia, like Queensland, has a considerable white
population in the tropics; and Westralia’s annual
surplus of births over deaths is 1867 for every
100,000 people, against the average for the whole
Commonwealth of 1694 per 100,000. By way of
another point: Among the three highest Aus-
tralian State birth-rates, two —those of Queens-
land and Westralia —are in partially tropical
States. Among the three lowest death-rates two
—those of Queensland and South Australia —are
in partially tropical States. And among the four
States which show the largest increase of popula-
tion by excess of births over deaths, three—
Queensland, Westralia, and South Australia —are
partially tropical States. These are matters
worthy of consideration when the Bruce Smith
crowd next start&iW/boller about “the tropical
regions where the waftb man can’t live.”
On a Queensland Farm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE monarch hills above it
Are crowned by sombre trees,
That billow to the skyline
Like dark, Titanic seas.
At eventime, the shadow
Of one drear giant lies
Across a pleasant homestead
That stands upon the rise.
Here came, to wage with Nature,
The old uncertain strife,
A stalwart, young selector
And his new-wedded wife.
That low-roofed, three-roomed shanty
Of slabs and bark and scrim,
Long years ago, she whispered,
A palace was—with him.
Five miles from any neighbor,
Full forty from the town—
And so the lion-hearted
Bush exiles “settle down.”
With no applause to cheer them,
No banquets and no band,
Their days are yet heroic
With effort through the land.
They wear no tailored raiment,
These bush-folk hard and brown ;
They know not city dainties,
Nor luxuries of town.
Hard beef and heavy damper,
And suet-strengthened dough,
And “ spuds ” boiled in their jackets
Full well and oft they know.
Miladi’s sleeping soundly,
Milord in slumber lies,
When he and she are toiling
At sun-up on the rise.
Their acres, won in travail
For tilth, are trebly dear ;
The laughter of their children
Is sweet and good to hear.
The palinged garden, bearing
Its kitchen growths in rows,
The earthen stoop, bark-shaded,
Whereon a creeper grows.
The dog-leg fences, marking
Each year, another field,
A hope of better seasons,
And still a greater yield—
The spring rains softly falling ;
The stainless Queensland skies,
Hold golden compensation
For dwellers on the rise.
Long years from now may find them
Still hoping, brave, and fond,
Still wooing fickle Fortune ;
Still looking out —beyond.
Tall, stalwart sons beside them ;
Strong daughters in their ’teens,
The simple household comforts
That come with ways and means.
No great, heroic ending,
No palace and no prize ;
But rest and recollection
At sunset on the rise.
And courage on his face is,
And love is in her eyes—
Some city folks might envy
The dwellers on the rise.
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP-
Brisbane, January 9, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Our city may be a frivolous one as a rule, but
the accumulated wisdom and science that threaten
to ingulf it next week—in fact, it has already
begun to rain bald-headed men with spectacles
and with huge tomes under their arms, and the in-
gulfing is right here—should counteract any latent
giddiness for years to come. On Monday morn,
bright and early, the jubilee foregathering of the
Australian Ass. for the Advancement of Science
and other curious things will lay down an accumu-
lation of lore in the Boys’ Grammar School house.
Ah ! What a feast of knowledge it will be ! Presi-
dent Bragg will be a running river of comment
upon radio-activity (whatever that may be); our
own Dr. Jack will preach, like the prophets of old,
a sermon on stones ; while a visiting lady medico
will use her best endeavors to prove to us the
death-dealing proclivities of Fido, the well-
beloved, and the germs that lurk in the thomas
cat. I think the" lecturer’s name is Georgiana
something. As she may change the something
any time, it is of no moment anyway. Only the
Georgiana stays.
The Braggses, and the Skeats, and the Maidens,
and the Sweets, and a lot more of them, also a
visiting lady ink-slinger, have already made their
appearance in our midst, and if they only survive
the slashing dissertation by Dr. Ham upon “Dirt
and Disease ” —why, we should have a hilarious
time of it, for, sandwiched in between the heavy
mass of learning, are such trivialities as a trip to
One-Tree Hill, a jaunt to Indooroopillv bridge per
the steamer Boko, a run to White’s Hill by
motor-car, a few hours down the bay to blow away
the cobwebs, and garden parties at the Chelms-
ford shelter and at the Archbishop’s gunyah.
After that the visitors will be dumped on to the
Darling Downs for a day, and the survivors railed
to Gympie through the palm scrubs for another
day—after which they will make their escape.
There is, I hear, some consternation over cer-
tain gleanings of information regarding the Chil-
dren’s Hospital that have from time to time
adorned this column, and the powers that bo
have, so I am told, arisen as one woman and
declared that their secrets could only have been
divulged by a nurse. They have therefore, so I
don’t hear, bought a rack, and the nurses are to
be dislocated on it in succession till one of them
confesses. Then the criminal will suffer amputa-
tion of the head. I hasten to assure the com-
mittee that all this enterprise is quite needless.
'The real leakage of news is in the committee
itself. That body is too prone to go about be-
moaning the alleged incompetence of certain
officers whom it is apparently afraid to discharge,
and it bewails itself much about the cruel stories
circulated re high infant mortality, forgetting
that the figures are all set out straight and fair
each month by the Government Statistician.
But it never seems to strike these com-
mittee folk that when one nurse is left on
night duty with 32 children, among whom are
several surgical cases at a critical point, it is the
sort of thing that leads to a high mortality rate
not only among children but among nurses. I
once knew a hospital where this sort of sweating
was practised, and within six months the entire
nursing staff died. The staff’s name, if I remember
aright, was Johnson—Miss Johnson. This should
be a warning to our institution.
At last the C.I. Department has made a haul of
burglars or alleged burglars, and after a long period
of panic the peaceful citizen again sleeps serenely
without first arranging three coal scuttles on the
stairs, and concealing the family diamonds in the
water jug.
Talking of concealing jewels, by the way, a
local dame this week missed £3OO worth, and as
she distinctly remembered placing them in an old
umbrella for safety, she naturally had the whole
domestic staff arrested on suspicion. Two days
later she returned to a big hat shop a head-gear
that had been supplied on approval, and when the
firm did the unpacking, the jewels were found
within. So a rope was let down into the dungeon
wherein the domestic staff languished, and it was
hauled up into the light of day.
Our Government got afloat this week to seri-
ously consider Wully Kidston’s Rockhampton
programme. The Lucinda slipped down the
river, leaving a wake of dead marines behind it.
Everyone prepared to have a real good time, but
the stormy winds arose, and the Cabinet had to
hold on to its portfolio with both hands lest it
should blow away. When the noble yacht at
length threaded its way out of the marine growth
of soda corks and whisky labels, it was a limp
Ministry that staggered up the gangway, and if it
had seen the Rockhampton programme drowning
it would have cared little and said less.
A few storyettes of the recent high jinks at Too-
woomba are beginning to trickle through from
that highland city. What my friend of the un-
pronounceable name calls a palliasse of mine
writes me a weird tale about a ball, at which the
careful M.C. caused a notice to be posted as fol-
lows : “ Guests are requested to leave the room at
the conclusion of the dances, as the floor is begin-
ning to look damp and will soon become difficult
if the dancers do not go outside to drip.”
Our best-known lady medico has been getting
into holts with the police. She was called out on
Sunday last to attend a patient at a well-known
drinkery in George-street. She arrived armed
with a bag of instruments and later on she left
with it, and outside the door she was accused of
being a Sunday purchaser, and her bag was in-
spected for concealed drink.
The senior Randall gentleman, whose deceased
son painted some good and some bad Australian
bush work, has offered the whole collection to the-
south-side city if the local municipal body will
arise and bring forth a suitable hall in which to'
hang the same. Further, towards the erection
Mr. R. proposes to contribute £2OO. The pictures
include some really glorious bits of gum-tree. So-
. the south Mayor is thinking hard as to whether
he can induce the ratepayer to bend his back under
the added burden of another half-farthing in the
£ with which to purchase a nice corner lot and
build thereon.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Some months ago an arrangement was
come to between the Queensland Mines Depart-
ment and the gem miners of Anakie and Sapphire-
town (C.Q.), under which the Department was to
act as agent for the sale of gems, and advance
half their value as fixed by a Brisbane expert.
The Mines Department tried to sell the goods in
the London market, but, as the prices offered were
too small, no business was done. A trial is now
to be made to dispose of them in N’York. Mean-
while, a scared Department has stopped making
advances, and things are back where they were.


Queensland: the Queen
State of the Com-
monwealth.
From The Bulletin leading article Jan. 30,
1908.
Number Added Annually to each 100,000 In-
habitants by Excess op Births over Deaths.
France ... ... 110 Norway ... _ ... llffl
Ireland 511 German Empire 1441
Switzerland ... 974 Westralia ... llfiO
Belgium ... ... lOlfi Netherlands ... 1471
I tody 1087 Prussia 1474
Sweden 1088 S. Australia ... 1493
Austria ... ... 1197 Commonwealth ... 1521
Hungary ... ... 1162 Maoriland ... 1629
England ■ 1194 N. S. Wales ... 1633
Scotland 1197 Tasmania ... 1697
Victoria 1296 Queensland ... 1750
Denmark 1356
No. 11.
By J, D. Fitz Gerald.
FREE LAND FOR A FREE
PEOPLE.
“All wealth comes from the
land ! ” is a sententious com-
monplace which we hear
quoted constantly. It has at
least the merit of truth ; and
if the further postulate is true,
that capital is the result of
labor applied to land, we see
the prospects of a noble accre-
tion to the world’s aggregate
capital when the great waste
spaces of Queensland are
treated with the plough, the
diamond-drill and the spade.
The State of Queensland throws open its
lands to agricultural settlement by the mil-
lion acres. We hear much of the disease of
“land hunger.” The insatiable maw of Queens-
land settlement devours the land by the million
acres, and yet the territories still held by the
State—the “Crown Lands,” as we call them in
Australia, as a symbol of our communal national
ownership—will suffice for the next half-century’s
use.
The main advantage which Queensland holds
out to the prospective settler is the fact that land
will be available to him without the risk of
undue delay. The Government is providing
machinery by which he may be put in
touch with the opportunities which he is
seeking in the new State. It is safe to say that
within a week of his arrival in Brisbane, the
immigrant can have placed before him, and sub-
ject to his choice, the whole of the available land
of Queensland. His difficulties are smoothed over
for him by the State agents. When he chooses
his path on the way to land ownership, he has a
wide choice before him, both as to districts and as
to products. Sugar-cane may attract him, and
here he finds a soil unsurpassed for the purpose,
and in addition to that the Australian Govern-
ment promises him a heavy excise rebate on all
the sugar which he may raise by white labor.
If he has capital to invest, pastoral pursuits are
open to him, and he would begin under the most
favorable auspices. For many years the seasons
have been good; prices have been high both for
wool and live stock, and the conditions of this
kind of settlement and the encouragement given
by the peculiar and paternal laws of the State
are of the most liberal nature. And as to markets
—the settler has the world for his market; for by
means of modern development of canning, pack-
ing and freezing, and by the aid of the splendid
system of State railways, the coastal steamship
services, and the deep-sea liners, he is brought
into direct communication with the farthest
markets of the earth, with the millions who are
consumers of his canned and chilled and frozen
foods, with the manufacturers of the world who
take his raw materials with avidity.
Then there is the new market, which is being
opened to the teeming millions of Asia.
Within a week’s steam, and connected by three
fine lines of steamers, is Java, with a popula-
tion of thirty millions ; and beyond that,
another week’s steaming brings the produce to
Singapore and Hongkong,
and northwards to the
great hungry provinces of
China. Already, in Soura-
baya, Samarang, Batavia,
Singapore, Penang, Ran-
goon and as far nor’-west as
Calcutta, the “ tiffin-rooms”
are institutions in high
favor, and these are founded
for the supply of Australian
meats. The Chinese, it is
known, have recently begun
to eat wheaten bread instead
of rice, whenever they are
able to procure it; and
the trade is moving north-
east and north-west to the
new and practically unex-
ploited markets which are
opening up on the shores of
the Pacific and Indian
Oceans. Thus the pro-
spects of trade with the
Asiatic races are illimitable.
Then there are the Island
groups of the Pacific, which are now a safe and
satisfactory market, right at the very front door
of Queensland’s rich coastal districts, and these
groups are being opened to population by the
spread of commerce, and the demands for copra,
rubber and sugar cane ; so that all the great tropic
lands and islands which occupy the adjacent seas,
and which acknowledge the attraction and the
hegemony of Australia as the “big watch-
dog ” of the South, will furnish larger and more
valuable markets for Australian produce and manu-
factures as years roll on. The “ magnetic pole ”
of commerce and of influence, so far as the
Southern Hemisphere is concerned, will be centred
in Australia; while Queensland, as the nearest
Australian State to this great market, has the
start of all its rivals in the Commonwealth, and
can outstrip its American and British rivals by
weeks or months.
• * * *
Now, in this great State of Queensland settlement
is going on steadily and successfully. In no other
part of the Commonwealth are greater facilities
given for getting upon the soil; nor for instruction
in the means of making the soil productive and ob-
VIEW ON GOWRIE STATION (Q.).
taining the greatest return for the least expendi-
ture of labor and of capital. Let us take a typical
example of the immigrant whose chances, not only
of a modest competence, but of absolute wealth
and independence within a few years, are so se-
cure in Queensland. Take the agricultural
laborer, or the man born on the land, accustomed
to the routine of farm work. He may be the son
of a Victorian farmer, who, finding land unavail-
able, seeks the broader acres of a country which has
DAIRY AT PALMWOODS (Q.)
eight times the territory of his own native State;
or he may be a strapping, adventurous young man
from Tipperary, or Warwickshire, or Ayrshire, or
Monmouthshire, or perchance a frugal peasant
from the Languedoc region of France, an Italian
from the Mediterranean littoral, cunning in vines
and olives, who will find his own balmy, sunny
climate rivalled in his new home, without the
snows and frosts of Italian winters to plague him.
Or again, he may be a sturdy Austrian peasant
ANOTHER VIEW ON GOWRIE STATION (Q.).
from the valley of the Dra- e or the banks of the
Danube; or a Hungari; proletariat from the
great Magyar bonanza funis or horse ranches;
or a Cossack husbandman whose views of human
liberty may be broader than those of his neigh-
bors, and who sees wider democratic vistas
in the great south land, which draw him away
from the vortex of Siberian emigration and bring
him to us.
Then the Maorilander may tire of_ his per-
petual rains and mists, and may prefer his chances
in Queensland of artesian irrigation from the
numerous welling subterranean streams which
have been released from their age-long im-
prisonment in the bowels of the earth by the
diamond drill (State-owned), and may long for the
region where the “sun shines from January Ist
to December 31st.” Or the Canadian, frozen and
snowed up for six months in the year in the
“ Mother of Snows,” may prefer his chances in the
Sunny South, and may barter those fireside com-
forts which he enjoyed, or with which he chafed
in enforced idleness, for the perennial activity,
the free conditions, the varied resources, and the
infinite variety of products which await his toil
in Queensland.
Such immigrants as Queensland freely invites to
partake of its hospitality will be men of small
capital, ready to begin the world “ from scratch,”
but conscious that the State of Queensland recog-
nises a reciprocal duty if he does his. And, as it
knows the value of a willing colonist, it will do all
that the organisation of efficient State forces, edu-
cational, auxiliary and experimental, can do to
make of him a source of wealth to himself and to
the State, whose citizen he proudly becomes, and
which welcomes him as a mother welcomes a child
to her plenteous bosom. In his new home he can
secure comfort, competence, political and religious
freedom, communal aid and succor, a share in
the government by his vote; nay, he may, if he
seizes his opportunities, become one of the elected
leaders of the government; and his children may,
in the State schools and High schools, qualify for
any position in the complex social organisation
for which their talentsfit them or which their merits
earn for them. They may adorn the Bench or the
Bar ; all the learned professions are open to the
children of the humblest settler; for, so far as
Queensland is concerned, a sound, commonsense,
worlc-a-day Democracy has decreed that in this
territory, at any rate, no longer shall—
Talent sink, and merit weep unknown.
The records of Queensland’s Parliament, of its
commercial and industrial life, show that many
men, who occupy the proudest positions in the
State and the Commonwealth, have sprung from
unexalted beginnings, and have proved the basic
thesis of Democracy, that equal opportunity,
energetically used, will bring merit to its proper
level, and that the son of the peasant may out-
strip the son of the prince or peer in the race for
fame, where a clear course is provided by a Gov-
ernment founded on Democratic principles.
Therefore, the intending immigrant to Queens-
land has something more than the love of gold, or
of material advancement, to call him to his new
home. Coming perhaps from beneath the shadow
of a feudal castle, he may look forward from the
modest beginnings on his new Queensland home
to the time when he may stand as an equal in
wealth and merit with the owner of the castle
which frowned on his youth, and whose shadow
would have kept him from achieving true man-
hood had he remained in its miasmas. In Queens-
land, more than in any other place in the
world, Napoleon’s great working maxim, “La
carriere ouverte aux talents ”
(“The career is open to
the fittest”) stands good.
And as every soldier in
the Great Captain’s army
“carried a marshal’s baton
in his knapsack,” so there is
no office closed by privilege,
or birth connections, or nepot-
ism, in the Queensland demo-
cracy ; and every soldier carries
the marshal’s baton. In Queens-
land they have taken the wharf
laborer and the compositor,
and have made Senators of
them, because of their special
fitness; a stenographer has
become Attorney-General of
the Commonwealth. A Scot-
tish-born miner Prime Minister
of the Commonwealth. An
Irish peasant’s son became
Premier of the State, a clergy-
man’s son Chief Justice of the
High Court of Australia, and
a carpenter a Supreme Court
Justice of the State. What
other country in the world can
show this reward of merit,
this exemplification of “the
career open to the talented ” ?
Now, what are the advantages which the
intending settler receives—the concrete advan-
tages, above and beyond the sentimental reasons
urged above ? I place them thus :
(1) The land is available by the million acres.
(2) It has been classified according to its
suitableness to the varying uses to which it will
be put.
(3) From five separate points on the eastern
coast, from the temperate to the tropic zone, rail-
ways have been run westward, in order that the
products of the interior may reach the sea and
the shipping.
(4) The State is resolved that efficiency shall
enter into the question of production ; so it pro-
vides—
(a) An agricultural college, in which the
students are taught practical, theoretical and ex-
perimental farming. The college has a staff of
experts in all branches of agricultural work, dairy-
ing, chemistry, entomology, vegetable pathology,
etc. It is completely up to date in its methods.
( b ) State Experimental Farms in central dis-
tricts from south to north, where experiments
are sedulously carried out in analysing soils,
manures and fertilisers, and also in the conserva-
tion of fodders in silos. The results of these
experiments are communicated to the men on the
land throughout Queensland. Seed grain is dis-
tributed to encourage improved species and to
raise the producing power of the Queensland soil.
(c) A State nursery for tropical and other plants
is in existence in the North, near Cairns, and
rubber plants will be made available for planters
when required.
(d) A State cattle herd is kept, from which the
stocks of the farmers are recruited ; and this has
steadily improved the breed of the cattle and the
quality of their produce, and, in the long run, has
improved the prices obtained for the products of
the area of land formerly in use.
(e) An Agricultural Bank is provided by the
State, and the trustees of this bank, after inspec-
tion and valuation, can advance capital up to £BOO
to the struggling settler to enable him to buy
stock and machinery for the improvement of his
farm.
(/) A chemical laboratory for the benefit of
farmers exists, and herein are carried on experi-
ments such as analysing dip mixtures, water,
organs of diseased animals, soils, grains, marking
glassware (under the Dairy Produce Acts), making
analytical experiments in the feeding values of
fodder, &c.
( g) The Agricultural and Stock Department
gives advice to farmers upon breeds and diseases
of stock, upon the best kinds of machinery, the
best crops, the way to get the produce to market,
the best markets.
(h) Acts both of the Commonwealth and State
Parliaments are framed to assist the primary pro-
ducer and the settler generally, such as Commerce
Acts, Diseases in Plants
Acts, Dairy Produce Act,
Brands Acts, Sheep Acts,
Live Stock and Meat Ex-
port Acts, Slaughtering
Acts, and the numerous
Acts creating different ten-
ures of State lands, such as
agricultural selections (agri-
cultural farms and agricul-
tural homesteads), grazing
selections (grazing farms
and grazing homesteads),
scrub selections, uncondi-
tional selections, and prickly
pear selections.
( i ) An information, tourist
and intelligence bureau in
Brisbane, and inquiry
offices in various depart-
ments as to land, labor,
employment, tourist routes,
etc. ; and, in London, a
department which is housed
in the Agent - General’s
office, the Marble Hall,
Strand, London, for the
purpose of assisting intend-
ing emigrants to Queensland
with advice and with free
and assisted passages.
These are a few of the beneficent agencies
organised and employed by the State of Queens-
land in order to put into productive use its
429,120,000 acres of rich laud, and so encourage
population and develop its indigenous wealth
that it may have millions of prosperous citizens
where thousands now exist, living in a smiling
land, under free political conditions, and with the
incredibly low death rate of 9'56 per 1000, show-
ing that Queensland is one of the healthiest coun-
tries if not absolutely the healthiest country, on
the face of the globe.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON • ... .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial fljutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527^—Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.0., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Se cur ity.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
N5
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
fflontdepietej).«|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Oo.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
rHE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors': F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, lisq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
“ THE IDEAL WAY TO
SEE EUROPE.”
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to sceneny
and places of interest to suit Lis clients. Also First-Class
Touring 1 Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
STANDARD BRICK MACHINE
sf
Makes Twenty
Concrete Bricks
One Operation.
Three men
make 5000 per
day. Make
your Bricks
on the job.
Write for
particulars.
d. J. STEELE,
Sole Agent,
104 Castleroagh
Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
ord
eutscher
loyd
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
via NEW BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR (Twin-screw) .. 9th FEB.
PRINZ SICISMUND (Twin-screw) .. 11th MAR.
MANILA 8th APRIL
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For farther particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Ham
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
LITHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capefotvn. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
f New Steamer. * Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London ... .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 lbs to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
I!
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
January 20.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
February 20.
MEDIO, AFRIC and SUEVIO to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to
London .. .. 19 0 0 to
New fork, Boston, &c. 25 5 0 to
£24 3 0
30 0 0
36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* HOLIPAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
sd
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
fs
HICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
5. H. MCDONALD, Manciger.
TASMANIA.
HIGHFIELD.
.The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful,
magnificent.
The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged
furnished. Replete with every Modern Requisite
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
scenery
and Re-
for the
Cuisine.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &C.
NEAT and
BTRONQ.
df
TO
MEND
BELTS and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1098. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington, Eng.
Price List on
application.
ENTERTAIN YOUR
GUESTS
Nothing can equal the satisfaction there
is in offering to your guests a pleasing form
of entertainment—one that takes care of
itself and does not interfere with other
forms of amusement, but rather helps them.
Such an entertainer is the Edison Phono-
graph, which can amuse the guests by
rendering popular or classic music—
—marches and other items by the best
orchestras and bands.
It costs less than the hiring of even a
small orchestra for a single evening’s
entertainment, and you have it all the time.
Call at a dealer’s and hear some recent
selections. We will give his address, and
also forward complete lists of machines
and records.
with an EDISON
PHONOGRAPH.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN ,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
POMEROY
Liquid Powder
Tones down any undue redness and
renders flushing of the face less notice-
able. Is a great protection to the com-
plexion especially when motoring, yacht-
ing, golfing, etc. Made in five shades :
Flesh Pink, Pale Pink, Rachel, Pale
Rachel and White.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores; or
direct from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old
Bond Street, London. England.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North \Ve9tern Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongala, January 15.
S.S. Grantala, January 30.
S.S. Bullarra (from Fre-
mantle to' N. -West Ports),
February 9i
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
.S.S. Innamincka, Jan. 16.
S.S. Yongala, Jan. 23.
Best and Cheapest Route to Gold Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after th<
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL. & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
/yjESSAGERIES J^jARITiMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS
, LEAVE SYDNEY AS UJfDER ;
YARRA
VILLE DE LA
CIOTAT
ABMAND BEHIC..
Commander Sellier ..
Commander Barillon
Commander Guionnet
Noon, Jan. 25
Noon, Feb. 22
Noon, Mar. 22
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with the other Mail Companies, issued at greatly
reduced rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
January 16.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
January 23.
BURRUMBEET, 2 p.m., TUES-
DAY, January 26.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 16.
BURWAH, 6 p.m., TUESDAY.
January 19 (Cargo only).
GABO, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
January 23.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
f New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H. —iS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “DORSET.**
11.300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from SYDNEY - 19th January
~ „ „ MELBOURNE - 27th January
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - 2nd February
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
\ £49 10s - £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly interval's by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
U. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart ;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.


s>
m
y/rj
\
\
ft
x:
@
i
31V
\Ji
XX.
. .vvWWu
//, .
%
&
I
m
m
Mtjmikw
We receive these sort of letters every dcry. We have thousands of them and WE GUARANTEE every one to he
genuine, and given to us freely and without pay of any kind. We will pay £6lOO reward for proof to the contrary.
Nervousness, Dyspepsia, etc.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
It is with great pleasure that I am sending you
this statement. I had been suffering from Indiges-
tion and nervousness for years and could not get
cured. I saw doctors and took a lot of patent
medicines without deriving any benefits from them.
Last September my condition became so serious as
to cause me uneasiness. I could not eat, having no
appetite. The sight of food seemed to turn me
sick, and seeing your Belt advertised I thought I
would give one of them a trial. I bought one and
am very pleased to say that after wearing it for
three months I derived great benefit from it. I can
now eat well, sleep well and get up in the morning
feeling refreshed and fit for work ; I never felt
better in my life.
I shall be very pleased at any time to tell any
fellow-sufferers the benefit I received from your
wonderful Belt.
Thanking you for what vou have done for me,
Yours truly, T. J. SHARPLESS,
Manildra, N.S.W.
Weak Back, Lumbago.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
In reply to yours of recent date I am pleased to
be in a position to state that the Belt supplied me
has completely cured my back, and it has been
strong and well now for nearly two years; to tho&e
suffering from a lame back I can recommend it as a
sure cure. My work includes heavy riding, pick
and shovel, fencing, and all such kind of work as
is followed by a station hand.—Yours gratefully,
JAMES ARMSTRONG, Jnr.,
Arches Siding, N. C. Railway,
Rockhampton, Q’land.
Weak Back, Pains in Legs, General
Debility.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
In reply to your enquiries about my health since
wearing your Belt, it is with thanks I am able to
state that I have received great benefits, and am now
quite well, and a new man again. I find after using
your High-Grade Belt that I am quite free from the
complaints that I suffered from, and I certainly can
recommend it to anyone suffering from either a
Weak Back, Pains in the Legs or General Debility.
Yours faithfully, H. SAMUEL,
Gobarralong, N.S.W.
A Woman’s Miraculous Cure c.
Rheumatism.
The Dr. McLaughein Co.
No pen or tongue can describe my sufferings
before I began to use one of Dr. McLaughlin’s
Belts. I could not get into bed, either dress or
undress myselt, and often had to sit on a chair on
which a pillow was placed, and to rise from a
seat I had to draw myself up gradually; my feet
resembled two roly-polys, and I was in mortal
agony. Scores of people never expected to see me
able to walk again without assistance. lam just a
living miracle. A fortnight yesterday I went a
railway journey alone, and returned yesterday
alone, took a cab from the station home and got in
and out of the cab without assistance. I sometimes
think; can it be true? I’ve suffered so much—a
wonder to myself. I have not worn the Belt since
last June. I can now do all domestic duties,
washing and ironing included, make my own
clothing and thank God I rejoice to be able to say
I went out and did some shopping last night, and
though my daughter was with me I never once took
her arm for support. The first time for six long
weary years. Oh ! how I wish I could tell to all the
world what Dr. McLaughlin’s Belt has done forme.
I would like to tell every little detail, but it would
require a short-hand writer to take it all down. I
I am so glad I can testify to sufferers the wonders
of the Belt. Mrs. S. G. CORY,
37 Short Street,
Bendigo, Vic.
Rheumatism, Indigestion, Constipation.
The Dr. McLaughein Co.
I was in the hospital for several months under
the very best doctors that were to be got and
received no benefit from them, so I discharged
myself from the hospital thinking to try a Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt, which I did and with
great satisfaction, as the disease from which I
suffered (after all else had failed) began to leave me
after the first month’s use. After the third month’s
use I was cured.
I could not work for eighteen months, but after
using the Belt for three months I was able to go
back to my work, which is very hard as I am
quarrying. If anyone writes to me I will be only
too pleased to let them know what your Belt done
for me. Yours sincerely,
C. BROADBENT,
Bell Street, Coburg, Vic.
General Debility, Indigestion, Weak Back.
This is to certify that I have worn a Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt since the 12th October,
1906 00 to Ist January, 1907, and I have received a
wonderiul amount of good from it for what I might
call a broken-down system, having been a sufferer
from Debility, Indigestion, and General Weakness.
I now feel quite a different man in every way;
work is no trouble to me. I advise anyone suffer-
ing from any of the above complaints to use a Dr.
McLaughlin Electric Belt, as I am sure it will bring
about a certain cure.—WILLIAM E. ALDER,
Manning Road, via Gloucester, N.S.W.
Female Weakness, Headaches, Debility.
I consider it my duty, not only as a patient, but
as one who has been so courteously treated, to tell
you that after wearing one of your Belts for three
months, that I am almost cured of all my ailments.
I think that if I had not got the Belt when
I did, I would now be in my grave or an
asylum, as I felt I was going out of my mind. I
suffered something terrible with my head, when it
got bad I had to sit and keep my eyes on one
thing, and sometimes I felt so bad that I prayed
for death. I suffered terrible with palpitation of
the heart, Indigestion and General Weakness, but
thanks to your wonderful Belt I am now a new
woman. I have advised all my friends that are
ailing to try your Electric Belt and explained to
them the position I was in when I first used it.
Mrs. J. W. SANDERSON, Wyong, N.S.W.
Woman Cured to Stay Cured.
After using your Belt for one month, I have not
suffered with that terrible pain in the chest since.
It is now six months since I used the Belt last, and
I think that is a good proof of my cure. Wishing
you every success, I am, etc. ANNIE WILSON,
Lome Station, Via Blackall, Q’land.
Doctors Failed ; Belt Cured Her.
For some years I suffered from Womb Trouble,
Aching Back, and Constipation. I tried many
Doctors but got no relief, and hearing of your
valuable Belt I decided to try it. I received your
Belt eleven months ago, wore it, ahd now I am
perfectly cured. I sincerely advise any suffering
woman to get your valuable Belt, for I am certain
it will cure them. Wishing your Belt every success,
EMMA HARDING, Springdale, Ternora. N.S.W.
TO MEN!
If you are not the man you should be; if you suffer from Weakness,
Varicocele, Nervousness, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Weak
Back, Asthma, Kidney, Stomach or Liver Troubles, do
not despair because drugs have failed to cure you, use Nature’s cure—
Electricity. It will cure you, it cannot fail: for when you are weak and
sick, it is electricity which your system lacks and must have before it can
become strong again. Our belts have special attachments for men.
TO WOMEN!
If you suffer from Nervousness, Headache, Dragging Pains,
Insomnia, Weak Back, Asthma, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Stomach, Kidney or Bowel Troubles don’t take drugs, for they
cannot make strength, and that is what you need. The strength of your
nervous system is electricity, therefore, when you are weak and nervous,
if you fill your body with its grand strengthening influence, it must
become strong. Our belts have special attachments for women.
The Dr. McLaughlin Improved Electric Belt is the standard electric body battery of the world. We have branch offices in aU the principal cities of Europe,
Asia, Africa, Canada and the United States. Our appliances have many imitators, but no equals. Beware of Cheap Imitations. Write US for
our exposure of the free belt fraud. Our Belts are guaranteed not to burn, blister or shock: the most sensitive person.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated book,
which every man and woman should
read. It shows how and why our method
cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE, post paid
to all who write us, and our specialists
will give you a full diagnosis of your case free. All communications are treated with
strict confidence. For private address, address : Secretary, M. E. B. Co.
THE MeLAUGHLIN CO., DEPT. 10,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
<OSEJ>H R. CORCORAN
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO., DEPT. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STS., SYDNEY.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
T 4
If privacy is desired, address; SECRETARY M. E. B. CO.


Accompanied by Terrible Itching—
A Complicated and Most Distress-
ing Case—Well-known Remedies
Failed to Cure—Doctor Thought
an Operation Necessary—Then
CUTICURA PROVED ITS
WONDERFUL EFFICACY
**l am now eighty years old and one
morning, three years ago, I was taken
with a hard pain in my right side. In
two days I had an attack of piles
(hemorrhoids), bleeding and protruding.
The doctor gave me some medicine and
an ointment for them which helped me
some but I had to keep using them all
the time. Then I changed to the P
remedy; but if I did not use it every
day, I would get worse. The doctor
said the only help for me was to go to
a hospital and be operated on. At
this time, about a year ago, I went to
using the S remedies. I tried them
for four or five months but did not get
much help for my piles. During this
time sores would come on a fleshy part
of my body.. They bothered me all
the time. I would get one healed and
another would come. These sores
changed to eczema, accompanied by
a terrible itching. It seemed as if I
could not keep my hands from tearing
my flesh. This and the pile trouble
brought on an inflamed condition.
Then I got the Cuticura Remedies. I
washed the affected parts with Cuticura
Soap and warm water in the morning,
at noon, and at night, then used Cuti-
cura Ointment on the irritated sur-
faces and injected a quantity of Cuti-
cura Ointment with a Cuticura Sup-
pository Syringe. I also took Cuti-
cura Resolvent Pills three times a day.
It took a month of this treatment to
get me in a fairly healthy state and
then I treated myself once a day for three
months and, after that, once or twice a
week. It is fortunate that I used Cuti-
cura. The treatments I had tried took a
lot of money that I would have saved by
using Cuticura Remedies sooner, but
I am wiser now, and I would not feel
safe without them. J. H. Henderson,
Hopkinton, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y.,
U. S. A., April 26, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for Cuticura
Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humor of Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuti-
cura Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura
Resolvent, or in the form of Pills (Chocolate Coated)
to Purify the Blood; also the Cuticura Suppository
Syringe. Sold throughout the world. Depots:
London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de
la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney:
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.. Boston.
THE
STEINWAY
PIANOS
POSSESS that full, deep,
rich tone that makes a
direct and instantaneous
appeal to all who hear it.
Everything that art and science
can combine is to be found in
this magnificent instrument,
and we ask you to allow us the
privilege of meeting you in
our showrooms just, to discuss
a STEINWAY.
Most Moderate Extended
Payments Arranged.
Old Instruments taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson & Co, Ltd.,
342 GEORGE STREET-SYDNEY.
The summer has arrived—there is no doubt of it.
The heat is hard enough to endure, but you must
remember that the heat and the dust of an Australian
summer will not only prove unpleasant and disagreeable
to you, but your complexion is going to be ruined unless
you are very careful.
Your complexion and your beautiful skin you prize,
’ g only
After
refresh
clean,
always
0. 4711.
and rightly so, therefore preserve tnem uy usin
4711 Glycerine Soaps and 4711 Eau de Cologne,
a day’s motoring, golf, or shopping, “ 4711 ” will
you and render your skin beautifully subtle ana
and give you that peculiar charm which is
associated with the superb Toilet Preparations of H
sdf
LADIES’
Enamel
Walking
Boot,
22 6
Ladies who golf or take much walking exercise will find
this Enamel Button Boot greatly support their ankles
and prevent tiredness. It has a strong sole, is goloshed,
and coated with the first quality enamelling, and we
price it at 22/G*
If ordering in Victoria add 9d. for postage, 1/2 if from
any other State.
Our beautifully illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light” is free on receipt of a card sent to
any of these addresses.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
Reduced to 6d.
SUTTON'S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
[34
m
yfJh
m
m
Don’t
Suffer
From
Obesity
Excess or superfluous fat makes your life miser-
able, destroys your vigor and agility, weakens
your heart and your constitution ; absolutely
obliterates your figure, and makes you a laugh-
ing stock and a butt for ridicule amongst your
more fortunate friends. Let us upset all these
unpleasant conditions, and restore you to physical
harmony, by reducing your weight and restoring
your figure.
“ FATCURE.”
“ FATCURE ” is a scientific, successful and
efficacious remedy for the reduction of adipose
tissue. It is harmless, pleasant to take, and the
fat removed by it does not come back. - It has
cured thousands, and will cure you. It will, un-
aided by dieting or exercise, reduce your weight
by about 5 pounds a week, and will make life
worth living. There is no faith cure about the
use of “ Fatcure.” The weighing machine shows
you the results.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE.—-Send a 2d. stamp,
and let us send you a free trial sample, and our
interesting free book—Plain Talks on Obesity.
Send to-day.
THE WATWORTH C 0. f Suite J.'
LINDEN COURT, Castlereagii Street, Bydney.
• [1
CEREBOS
SALT
■o
Agents—Harrison & A ttwood, Sydney .
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT I
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Translated French Novels.
(Some Illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogues from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2|d
C. ARTHUR, 6 Passage Grana, Monte Carlo.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
o
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
Frootoids are elegant in appearance and
pleasant to take; they are immensely
more valuable than an ordinary aperient;
they remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident by the disappearance of headache,
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient medi-
cine to take when any Congestion or
Blood Poison is present, or when Conges-
tion of the Brain or Appoplexy is present
or threatening. They have been tested,
and have been proved to afford quick
relief in such cases when other aperients
have not done any good at all.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver;
a dose taken at bed-time, once a week, is
highly beneficial.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a dose
of Frootoids, instead of an ordinary
aperient. The patient thus gradually
becomes independent of Aperient Medi-
cines.
Price 1/6. Chemists, Medicine Vendors,
or the Proorietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
yMgiUS4idif >
& Sohn,
A. Q.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
sd
Heliar-
Camera
£PLATE.
SUITABLE FOR TROPICAL CLIMATES.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 GEORGE STREET, near C.P.0., SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking with Taylor ”
(on Lenseß, Cameras, etc.), post free. [3
fsd
TALKS ON RUPTURE.
What It Is, and How to Treat It.
by Prof. W. J. Pierce.
Something every ruptured per-
son should know. Send for a free
copy of this new pamphlet to-day.
Address— PlEßCE & SON, 11-12
Finsbury Square, London, E.C.
(When writing mention this paper)
XX
Jack gains every woman’s heart
By his always looking smart,
Gained the love of dearest Salli,
Using for his clothes the DALILII. *
* “ Dalli ” the best,_ most simple and most com-
fortable way of ironing. Independent of stove
fsd
and gas, it can be used any-
where. Non-inflammable
fuel without noxious fumes.
No risk from fire; healthier
and safer than any other iron.
Of all Storekeepers.
Stocked by—
Anthony Hordern
& Sons, Sydney.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Revolution at Lahore.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A telegram from India states that the editorial manu-
scripts and machinery of a vernacular newspaper named
Revolution have been seized at Lahore. — News item.
Old Lahore’s a Punjab city where the young
Hindu reads Chitty—
Where he ponders (more’s the pity !) over Coke
and Common Law ;
There the rising generation, which aspires to build
a nation,
Studies Burke—whose famed oration rubbed
King George upon the raw !
Bull, who founded Punjab Uni. for disseminating
cunei-
Formic knowledge (Bull was loony), is surprised
indeed to see
That the young and fervent rebel, who discusses
Marx and Bebel,
Is the product—polished pebble ! —of his blessed
’Varsity !
He imagined—Bull the jackass ! —that each meek
and lowly black ass
Would absorb such harmless tack as Bull would
bid him there imbibe ;
But alas ! as men of sin do, lo ! the young hard-
thinking Hindu
Hath with special care dipped into T. Macaulay
and his tribe !
He hath groped through Fronde and Freeman—
Gibbon’s lore each dusky demon
(Plain descendant of Alm'man) hath gone thro’
with extra care;
Hence the noise that Bull is makin’—since he finds
himself mistaken,
Lo, with angry fist fierce-shaken, he observes :
“ It isn’t fair !
“Have I not,” he says, “been gracious—have I
not with efficacious
Troops and clerklings held this spacious land a
century or more ?
Freetrade’s blessing I have brought it—yea, my
sweated “hands” have wrought it,
And unto your folk I’ve taught it here in Patna
and Lahore!
’Ome in Hingland, where the rotten houses hold
my serfs besotten,
Lo, I spin the blessed cotton and I weave the
cheapest twills;
But alas ! this land ungrateful, filled with malice
vile and hateful,
Wants of food its own small plateful—starts its
own d—d cotton mills !
“Worse than that, for in addition come the
preachers of sedition —
Gome the men who want position, want an India
brown and free ;
Want an Indian legislature where these knaves
may tariff-weight your
Uncle Bull—why, human nature could not stand
such infamy !
Press’s freedom ? Stuff and nonsense ! —yes, of
course, it’s right in one sense,
But that’s quite a dead-and-gone sense—only white
men need such things ;
Shades of Bright and Richard Cobden !—take
this hat that I have sobbed in—
Shall J. Bull this land be robbed in ? I will cut
the press’s wings ! ”
Thus it came that yester-morning, as it churned
forth “ leaders ” scorning,
Fell the bolt with ne’er a warning on the Hindu
Fourth Estate;
’Twas the paper Revolution —struggling Urdu
institution —
That was seized for execution down beside the
Delhi Gate !
Chundra Pal —a fellow-inker, and likewise a clear-
eyed thinker —
He was editor; and pinker than the blessed
Bulletin’s
Were the politics he preached ’em. He expounded
and beseeched ’em,
Ere John Morley’s minions reached him and they
took him in his sins.
“India wants” (he preached) “Protection; let
her people make selection —
Unto us give the election of our Indian Governors;
Let the land be cultivated, and new industries
created —
Let our States be Federated from Lahore to
Dondra’s shores ! ”
Thus arose the recent shindy heard from far-off
Rawal Pindi—
And the man in distant Scinde, he heard the tale
from old Lahore ;
How John Bull his might was using, how his fist
the Press was bruising—
Yea, how Chundra’s paste was oozing—oozing
’neath the sanctum-door!
Chundra’s paste-pot freshly shattered, Chundra’s
type all “ pied ” and scattered,
Ohundra’s screeds all torn and tattered —tidings
these for men to fear ;
Woe for Bull there may be lots of ere he wipes
those damp paste-clots off—
Deeds like these the world well wots of—who
remembers Jenkins’ Ear ?
Yea, the young men reading Chitty in Lahore and
Delhi city—
Are they like to pass in pity or to beat new rebel
drums?
Still Bull hugs his Freetrade idol, whilst the
Hindu wrath, grown tidal,
Sweeping far and stretching wide ’ll wake Meerut
and Agra’s slums !
We, the younger generation, who would here
build up a nation—
Would we stand Bull’s confiscation of our paste-
pot and MS. ?
Would we melt our type for bullets ? So, when
India’s cup is full, its
Voice will startle blundering Bull—it’s time for
John to ’ware distress !
Time, high time for sleepy Britain to observe the
warning written,
• Lest, one day, Bull, humbled, smitten, hears all
Asia’s storm-voice roar;
Fetich-bound and idol-cumbered, far too long
you’ve dreamed and slumbered —
Wake, your days in Ind are numbered ! Things
are Moving at Lahore !
VIO.
GRANT HERVEY.


DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
TOUR
WITH
■
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
ESTABMSHKI) 1549.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND City S^»r U Suburbar» Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural < J r ° n Vne^Aua-
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock Of Treasury rates OF INTEREST
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF iNTEKtai
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing 1 Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan 'during any year, without notice or payment of any hne.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator Hie Hmi- J- T. \V a ker, e P u t> wirmhcombe MLC. ;
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.E.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M L C.; The HonP. E. Wmchcombe M. 1.0. ,
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : R.chard Teece F.I.A F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkfx),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Oastlereaprh Streets.
PT- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINCS MADE UP. Telephone
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d.
Bulletin
from ‘‘The
* Office
'WINCHESTER
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .22 caliber repeater ever
offered. It’s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It’s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
RNS
u
99
at or
RAZOR Guaranteed
A High-Grade Razor, Fully Hollow-
Ground. Electrically Tempered.
Always Keeps the Edge. Each
Razor in a Case.
In Black Vulcanite Handle.
In Real Ivory Handle.
7 in Case, one for each day of the week.
TO BE OBTAINED OF
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney. [2
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS MB
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. .FOR..
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
fs
an °ONLY
#
It aets like a charm in
DIARRH<EA.
'< o t., S»
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothaehe, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensivelv used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, have ;/ivp.n
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficggY;
Sold by Chemists oil over the world , in bottles , Is. 1 ; 2 oz., 2s. 9d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each .
WARNING. —Every bottle of the
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the *
GENUINE FREEMANS CHLORODYNE,
ELEPHANT " Trade Mark, on the wrapper,
which was invented by Richard
without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Freeman’s Chlobodynk, Ltd., London, S.E., England.
HEAKNE'S "af
The Famous Remedy for*
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
ST
r
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
Wengers Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“ Jabez ” supplies an essay on “Remit-
tance-Men ” :
Has anyone noted the curious social fact that 99 per
cent, of remittance-men are English ? X use the word
“English” advisedly. The remittancer is always a
P>riton ; but he is hardly ever either Irish, or Scotch, or
Welsh. X claim to speak with a certain amount of
authority regarding remittancers. My present meagre
fund of education was absorbed at a big English school,
which turns out its fair quota of remittancers per annum.
The school held plenty of Irish and Scotch boys, and a
few who had been born in the Taffy country. Shortly
after I returned, to this land of my birth, a trickle of
feckless youths who had neglected to imbibe learning
contemporaneously with me set in Sydney-wards. They
are still arriving. Sydney is a small place, and I mostly
bump against the new-comer within a day or so of his
striking this city. He is then hilarious, and avid to see
me drink champagne at his expense. Invariably within
one calendar week, or less, of the encounter, the Law calls
at my home, heavy as to foot, and exhibiting the ostenta-
tiously pained look of him who stands in the presence of
Death, and hands me in sympathetic silence a dirty
note. Its customary form is as follows :
Water Police Court.
Dear old thing—ibr God’s sake, come at once, with
bearer. I am in sore straits. Will explain when we
meet.
Yours ever, J. Brown-Johnson.
Explanation results in the separation from my person of
sums ranging from 40s. to £lO for the liquidation of fines
and damage done to private property and to the clothing
of the Force. The incarcerated is always English. Your
born remittancer follows as unvarying a course as a
G.P.I. subject. He begins by being gorgeous and plnto-
cratically uproarious ; later, he simmers down by gradual
stages to more or less peaceful indigence. The remit-
tancer, to be a success at his chosen calling, must have
the gift of dignity, not to say arrogance, in situations
that to the groundling would seem degrading. He
must be able to borrow sixpence with the air of
bestowing a favor; to pace the streets in palpably
burst footwear with an aspect of hauteur ; to put the
female vulgarian who controls his lodging-house in her
place what time she grows restless in respect of her long-
overdue board bill. These things are done to perfection
by the pure-bred Englishman and none other. The
Scotsman or Welshman who has seen better days and is
suddenly faced with the task of bluffing a justifiably-
maddened landlady grows inarticulate ; the Irishman
becomes liang-dog—a dreadful and pathetic spectacle.
These latter are, moreover, notably unskilful borrowers.
They either betray a hungry, indecent eagerness in the
quest (this is the Scotch-Welsh method) or they are
hideously jaunty, which is the unconvincing and hence
profitless Irish way. The remittancer who isn’t an expert
“ tapper” may as well go out of the business or take to
work. It is iiis pre-eminence in this line that stands to
the Englishman and gives him the commanding position
he holds in the profession.
I often think that the Englishman’s glorious supremacy
as a remittancer is at the root of much of his success as
an Empire-builder. The unselfish statesmen who seized
South Africa (for its own good); who with splendid
altruism have pre-empted and held Egypt for the benefit
of humanity ; and who, in the cause of the Right, are
continually training machine-guns on rude blacks and
brindles in all parts of the world, have been mostly
Englishmen. They would have made ideal remittancers
had fate caused them to be born younger sons, and
given them a shade less mentality, a slightly stronger
instinct for the Joy (and Liquor) of Life, a fraction
less capacity for toil. They possess all the remittancer’s
splendid powers of self-deception ; his inability to grasp
the sentiments of the inferior folk around him ; his utter
indifference to those sentiments when they are loudly
and insistently explained to him (this arises from a con-
viction that any sentiments or other things that discom-
mode him have no right to live) ; and, above everything,
they possess his Olympic hide. In fact, they are Eng-
lish. I have an absolute veneration for the true-blue
remittancer. I envy him his invaluable qualities. But I
don’t want to meet him. I can’t afford it. In his
presence I feel as the untutored nigger must when the
remittancer’s elder brother from the Colonial Office
arrives in his country on a business mission.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
Uhe LEADING
HOUSE FOR
CANT
B
BEAT
sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
6/0
OUR
Special
Snap.
4/0
2/0 '
» 4SK FOR
MUSTAD’S
“KEY BRAND.”
M34—Mustad’s Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong-
Nos. 1-2-3 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
6d. 6d. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/1 1/2 1/4 1/6 1/10 per box of 50.
M4o—Mustad’s Best Bright, Rustproof or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted—
Nos. 10 to 1 1* 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
4d. 4d. sd. sd. 6d. 7d. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/2 1/4 per box of 50
M44—Mustad’s Best Bright, or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted, XX Strong-
Nos. 10 to 1 H 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
6d. 6d. 6d. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/1 1/2 1/4 1/6 1/10 per box of 50
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
df
AULDJOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book ny De Foe, is posted.
Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All Tiif, Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Gd. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
sd
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of tiie First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, pr - Jistablished, 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street. Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my ......
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere {or the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. l)it. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
BEST
FLAT
SHAPE
EBH
The (gmj) is THE Pipe
that does r\ot crack or burn.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
KEEP IT
Wholesdle Depot
for Australasia,
231 Clarence 5? Sucfneu.
npHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
| Series. IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machiMe on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five vears.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
“Champion” Phonographs
Given Hway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable way. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of anv charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of i:- « onderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
. records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after vou receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., o PP . 8.p.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
ON THE HOP!
A superb* library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
fsd
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSEGTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strengt h ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORRISON,
Froprietor, 39 Hunter-street, frYDNEY.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by poet.
Is* 4d. ( stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
== Brifisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Austradans in London.
Price POST FREE, £1 per year,
♦ in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


CONTAINS
NO WkSfi
§
r
m
m
Ends an
Engineer’s Two
Years’ Sufferings
from Terrible
Wounds.
i
m
Mr. G. Haiyh.
“ T T THILE working at my trade of
\/\/ engine-driving,” says Mr.
V V Haigh, “a steam pipe burst
and scalded my neck severely.
As the result of this, my neck all broke out
in ulcerated and inflamed wounds, and
caused me an immense amount of agony.
I consulted a doctor —also pretty well all the chemists in Newcastle —who pre-
scribed different lotions, which I applied but without gaining any material
benefit. Some of the treatments would heal my neck temporarily, but it would
soon break out again. For two years I thus suffered agony, during which period
my neck was like raw meat. I could not bear to wear a collar, but always a soft
muffler round my neck, and had great difficulty in turning my head. One day I
met a friend, and, when explaining my trouble to him, he presented me with a
sample pot of Zam-Buk, which he happened to have with him, and advised me
to give it a fair trial, which I promised to do. After the fourth dressing with
Zam-Buk I found the inflammation greatly reduced, and I could turn my head
slightly without turning the whole of my body, as formerly. Thus encouraged,
I purchased a pot at the chemist’s and continued with the treatment, and by the
time I had completed this pot my neck was quite healed and as sound as before
the accident occurred. I can now wear a stiff collar without discomfort,, and, in
fact, am my old self again.”
Zam=Buk is a healing, soothing and antiseptic skin=dressing
which no home can afford to be without, and is invaluable for
cuts, burns, bruises, scalds, rashes, prickly heat, insect bites,
sunburn, piles, and all injuries and diseases of the skin and tissues.
Price 1/6 and 3/6 per pot, of all chemists and stores.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tbe other Hand
—that is, on botH Hands, and on tbe
face, and on tbe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tbe
best tbat possibly can be done tor
tbe skin’s Health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Chant-Royal of the Quaint
Regulation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prisoners are strictly forbidden to dance, whistle, sinjr
... or make any other noise in their cells. Any prisoner
offending- in this renders himself liable to punishment.—
Rxtract (probably misquoted) from N.S.W. Prison Regu-
lations.
A GRINDING infamy the life we lead ;
Driven and dulled, with stnpid eyes
a-stare,
Our hearts evolve an Ishmaelitish creed,
Our garb grotesquely mocks at our despair.
Here gold doth show as tawdry, gilded tin ;
Small faith henceforth on friendship shall we pin.
Savage with pain we writhe and execrate
The fools that sneer, the knavish ones that prate ;
Ribald, we scorn the ethics they advance ;
But, brothers—patience ; hold your mirth and
wait, —
We may not sing nor ivhistle here, nor dance.
We may deride derision. We may plead,
Hungry for solace, in a futile prayer.
Malice from misery our brains may breed.
Alike our woe is, and alike we wear
The hodden garb, the convict’s ashen skin,
The head close shaven and the stubbled chin.
Our hearts may be o’erfilled with bitter hate
As through routines we crawl with sullen gait.
We swear, belike, or moan in sodden trance.
The gibing rule constraining us doth state—
IPe may not sing nor whistle here, nor dance.
Note we the words of warning as we read,
Weary and harsh with bitterness and care.
Brothers, pale captives, it is well to heed
Lest you through joyousness be wrought to blare
A fervid paean of release from sin,
And lilt a chant hilarious wherein
You praise the goodly benefit of Fate
That brought you hitherward to expiate
The dismal failures made of Time and Chance.
Control your souls devoted and elate—
We may not sing nor whistle here, nor dance.
Once was there splendid freedom as the meed
Of pulsing life that throbbed to do and dare.
Lusty and passionate of thought and deed
Fought we, and revelled. As we now compare
Beside these days of squalor, bleak and thin,
The days of blithe, high merriment and din—
As now we dream the fast and glowing spate
Of yesteryear, and mourn our past estate,
And curse the grisly cheats of Circumstance,
Dourly and grim, to us the rules relate —
We may not sing nor whistle here, nor dance.
Dear loves remembered are as wounds that bleed
And fester sore within this stagnant air.
We are bereft of comfort in our need ;
Rancor and gloom beset us in this lair
As we, despised—reviled of friend and kin—
Have memories of heights we strove to win.
Each in his cell at night lies separate
To listen to a taunting self narrate
Old tales of grave aspirings and romance.
And then, because regret and grief are great,
We do not sing nor whistle here, nor dance.
Envoy.
Friends, we are caught and tangled in a gin
The gods have set; —and though we wail or grin
As is our mood, no less the braver date
Prepares for us when sorrow shall abate
Her wrathful scourge, and misery enhance
The rhythmic gallantries of life ornate
And wc shall sing and whistle then, and dance.
N.s.vv.
DICK H.
Fact’ry ’Ands.
DUKIE M‘KENZIE'S DAWNCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BENNO had been looking forward to the hop
on Thursday. It was not the ordinary
weekly fixture of Dukie M‘Kenzie’s
“ Assembly,” but something much more elabor-
ate —almost a ball; and it celebrated the climax
of the season. Admission on ordinary occasions
was is. ; on Thursday, it was to be —-gents,
eighteenpence; double tickets, 2s. 6d. The
familiar accordion orchestra was to be augmented
with a harp and violin, dancing was to be main-
tained till two in the morning, and there were to
be refreshments in the cloak-room.
But Mr. Dickson’s special interest lay in the
fact that he felt himself called upon to seize this
opportunity of wounding and humiliating Miss
Cilly Gwynne, who had turned him down for the
third and last time. Any bloke with the usual
allowance of human weaknesses may be “ done in ”
once by the girl he’s fond of. Any man with a
forgiving heart added to those common weak-
nesses may take his chances and be ‘ ‘ had ” a second
time. But only a confirmed chump and irreme-
diable “gooey” comes up for a third “chuck.”
So the astute Benno argued with himself. He
had had “ the chuck ” twice. Miss Gwynne had
cruelly forsaken him for a strange German in the
theatre. At Stonkie’s picnic she had passed him
over in favor of Billy Crib, the butter lumper,
across the lane. And lately she was devoting her
time and talents to a stocky youth, one Did
Cootie, who mauled bags of carrots, spuds, onions
and other flora at the produce store.
Did Cootie was new to Egg Lane, where he
provoked some little resentment by a slight
superiority of style and a pretentious use of tall
collars. He was quite quiet and apparently
harmless, but truculent spirits in the lane dis-
covered a certain confidence in his demeanor
where humility might have been more natural and
becoming in a stranger. The resulting prejudice
was responsible for a display of fictitious sym-
pathy for Benno. When quite honest, the Lane
had nothing but derision for the bloke who
showed any disposition to squeal over the vagaries
of a mere “tom.”
Mr. Dickson, mindful of the ignominy due to
the man who “gets brusher,” thought he was
combining airy indifference to Miss Gwynne with
a man's natural craving to “put it across ” his
enemy.
“All toms is erli'ke t’ me,” he said, tweaking
his lapels with a birdlike jauntiness of demeanor,
“ but, all ther same, it’s up t’ me t’ put er mock
on that tripester et ther ’ay-an’-corn.”
The packer winked a grave aside at the town-
traveller. “ Why don’t yeh get to him, Benno?”
he said.
Benno looked wise. “ That’ll be all right,”
he said. “ He'll get his pot on. You leave it
t’ me.”
“ Yes, Feathers,” said the town-traveller, “you
leave it to our little Benno—he’ll give him a black
look.”
Really Mr. Dickson was wounded, and secretly
he hoped to score a triumph at the Assembly on
Thursday night. Proprietary rights were respected
at Dukie M‘Kenzie’s dances. No gent could
appropriate another patron’s “bit of skirt” at
Dukie’s and hope to escape the retribution pre-
scribed for dishonorable conduct in well-regulated
push society.
Benno was taking Miss Adelia Smith, Miss
Priscilla Gwynne’s rival for the honor of belle of
Whimble’s pickle mill. Both were in the pepper
department, for Whimble milled coffee and spices,
and manufactured many odorous condiments in
addition to his main business, which was bottling
onions. The little clerk had not been hasty in his
choice. It was a matter calling for deep delibera-
tion. He was having a new suit himself, and the
lady must not discredit it. As a clerk, he was a
man of position. More is expected of a man with
a position than is looked for in one who has only
a job. Furthermore, and above all, there was the
necessity of giving Cilly Gwynne thoroughly to
understand that she was no wise necessary to his
happiness, and that her betters were, to use his
own expressive phrase, “dead easy” to him.
True, Miss Smith was rather tall and aggres-
sively lean, but her dress promised to be the best
at the ball, and she was decidedly superior. At
Whimble’s, Adelia was abbreviated to Fladdy,
but the young lady’s intense propriety was ad-
mitted and respected. She held herself aloof
from Miss Gwynne, whom she considered “ fast.”
If professional duties threw them together, Miss
Smith’s mouth became depressed at the corners,
her nostrils inflated, and she moved her lips and
tongue as if tasting something disagreeable.
Mr. Dickson was very pleased with the effect
when he entered the assembly hall with Haddy
Smith on his arm. In consequence of Miss
Smith’s great height it was difficult for Benno to
avoid the appearance of being a mere appendage
to the lady, but his loud vest helped him, and his
cardinal tie assisted in maintaining his individu-
ality. Cilly and Did Cootie were present. Benno
and Haddy sailed in under their very noses. It
gratified the clerk to note that in the matter of
dressing, Cilly was “no class” beside Miss
Smith, and Cootie wore nothing that could have
been heard in the same street with his own
splendid get-up.
And yet Benno found it difficult to bear up
against the plain fact that as a cheerful companion
and a ballroom feature Cilly Gwynne was just
“it,” and easily outdid Miss Smith, whose frigid
style was not to the taste of M‘Kenzie’s patrons.
‘ ‘ Blime, where’d yeh get it ? ” said Kingie, a
bosom friend of Benno’s. “ Ain’t she ’ead sales-
woman at a hice fact’ry? Why, wben I’m
swingin’ corners with ’er I sez, ‘ ’Ow are yeh ! ’ I
sez. ‘ It’s er bit iv good goods ’ere t’-night,
ain’t it ? ’ She ups with ’er trunk, sniffs at me,
’n’ sez her gills, ‘No conversation, if yeh please! ’
she sez.”
“Yes,” said Benno with a touch of regret,
‘ ‘ she is a bit iv a lady. ”
While no one could possibly have a truer appre-
ciation of the qualities of refinement and breeding
than Mr. Dickson, he realised before an hour had
gone that Haddy was overdoing the perfect lady.
She was altogether too genteel. She sat, prim
and erect, against the wall, her head slightly on
one side, her face drawn down tight, and her eyes
drooping. Her expression was that of one who
has discovered a defect'in the drainage, but is too
well-mannered to mention it. If asked to dance
she yielded, and went through the performance
with a sort of stony energy. Hugged to her
partner’s breast, she danced with vehemence, but
in silence, and her superior expression never
relaxed for a moment. She seemed to say, “I
dance with you, but allow no liberties.”
There was another marked disadvantage in
dancing with Miss Smith that presently excited
some discussion.
“ Nit, cobber, what’s got that piece o’ yours ?”
said M‘Kenzie after a round dance. “I no sooner
gets into holts with ’er than I fair sneezes me
napper off.”
Nicholas Don also rose to complain. “ She’s
er snorter, Dickson,” he said. “ She’s got every-
one sneezin’. Ther blokes is blowin’ false teeth
all over ther shop. Wot sort iv er game is this
fer er perfec’ lady whose ma washes fer ther
Gov’ner ? ”
Benno was sad. He had been sneezing a good
deal himself. No man could grapple with Haddy
without breaking the continuity of the dance
several times while he got down to sneeze explos-
ively. The sight of Haddy standing erect and
alone, waiting with a coldly superior air while
her gent bucked and contorted on the floor in a
paroxysm of explosion, became one of the features
of the evening. Not her partners alone, but all
the dancers in a set in which Haddy took part
were similarly afflicted.
Miss Smith’s curious influence was due to the
fact that she had been toiling among pepper in
Whimble’s factory all day, and had neglected to
brush the floating stock out of her abundant fluffy
locks in the hurry of preparing for the ball. In-
durated to pepper herself, she felt no unpleasant
effects ; but when she came into good action she
discharged the irritant in clouds, and infected the
whole atmosphere of the room. This did not add
to her popularity. A tendency to isolate the
young lady manifested itself.
Benno was hurt. His new grievance against
Haddy increased the bitterness with which he
regarded Cilly Gwynne and Mr. Cootie. He
took occasion to mention to a few friends that
Miss Smith had been in a measure forced upon
him at the last moment in consequence of the
gross unfaithfulness of Miss Gwynne.
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY DISEASES
Creep Quietly to the Attack. Do not Mis-
understand the Symptoms—Backache,
Tiredness, Broken Sleep, Depression,
Urinary Troubles, Pains in the Limbs.
~n
p
V
zt Every
Picture
Tells co
Story.’*
Do you know that
Rheumatism, Dropsy,
Gravel, Stone, Lum-
bago, Sciatica, are all
kidney diseases ? The
kidneys when healthy
filter the blood ; when
weak or diseased they
cannot do their work,
and the whole body
suffers. Only a special kidney medicine can cure
them. Doan’s Backache Kidney Bills are a kidney medi-
cine and a Kidney Medicine only. They keep the kidneys
well, and the kidneys will keep you well. Neglected
kidney disease is fatal.
Sydney People Cured.
A Sydney Man.
Mr. Jos. Hamon, Painter and Paperhanger, 3 Stanley Street, Sydney,
says : “At intervals during the past five years I have suffered with kidney
trouble. I had an aching back, which was particularly bad when I had any
stooping to do. I tried plasters, but they had no beneficial effect. I then
" procured Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and since using them have had no
return of the pain ; in fact, all trace of kidney trouble has left me.”
Eight years later, Mr. Hamon says : “I was very bad with my kidneys
previous to using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, but I am very pleased to
say that this remedy cured me. I have recommended these pills to a great
many people, and they,are favorably spoken of by all who use them.”
A Sydney Woman.
Mrs. E. A. Bruce, Broughton Road, Artarmon, Sydney, says: “I
suffered for a long time with severe pains in my back. They were so bad
that I could scarcely move about. Rest was out of the question. I would
be tossing about all night, moaning with the pain. I could not bend my
back, and I had to neglect my work. I was really very ill, and would be
confined to bed for days at a time. I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
advertised as a cure for backache, and got a box. After a few doses I got
relief, and then gradually I got better, until I was quite cured There is
no doubt about it being a cure, for it is two years since I stopped taking
the pills, and I’ve not had the backache all that time. I cannot tell you
how pleased I am to be free of the backache, and if sufferers will only try
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, there will be no aching backs.”
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2/9 per box (six boxes, 15/3), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I
I
i
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS
ECZEMA
A LITTLE GIRL’S LASTING CURE.
Mrs. A. M. Horwitz, 48 Baptist Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says:—“l sent for a pot
of Doan’s Ointment, and used it for Eczema
on my little girl’s forehead. The rash cov-
ered the brow completely, and it was round
the eye as well. The itching was frightful,
making her very fretful, and keeping her
from sleeping, which made it hard on all of
us. I had used several preparations previ-
ous to getting Doan’s Ointment, but none of
them gave more than passing relief. lam
pleiased to tell you that Doan’s Ointment
cured her completely. We have since used
it on another little girl with equally good
results. Doan’s Ointment is splendid, and I
advise its use in all itching skin diseases. It
ga veinstantaneousrelief, and healed rapidly.”
Mrs. Horwitz states, on 11th August,
1908 : —“ My little girl is still right. She has
been cured six years now. The doctor who
treated her said that the Eczema would re-
turn every winter ; but he was wrong, as
time has proved. Since I made the above
statement a lady visitor from New Zealand
used Doan’s Ointment for Eczema on her
hand, and it cured her also.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Eoster-
McOlellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
Ther Wokie m ther blue suit kidded ’er
t turn me down, ’n’ she dogged on me after I’d
made me arrangements,” said Benno. “It cost
a bit, take it frum me.”
<( T ..^ a , r r "> ’ sa ‘d Twitter Feeney disgustedly.
uictn yeh take somethin’ to ’im ? Ther cow ! ”
r s *■' come ,” retorted Benno with a sort
ot deadly composure.
fiends were most sympathetic, especi-
a y Twitter. Twitter had a great reputation to
ose. He was supposed to be a very destructive
street fighter. He was said to have outed a
14-stone policeman in a dust-up. Benno culti-
vated Twitter Feeney ; he took him in to refresh-
ments two or three times.
The refreshment room was very small and ex-
tremely hot. Refreshments consisted mainly of
corned beef and bread and beer. Dukie M’Kenzie
had set up a large barrel of beer, and put Jumbo
btone in command. A charge of 3d. a glass was
exacted. This was a breach of covenant, it being
set out on the tickets that refreshments were free
to all. It was also contrary to law, but Dukie
was a law unto himself. Jumbo was a large man ;
he was hot and flurried by the strain put upon
him. He chopped bread and meat and filled beer
glasses with perspiring energy ; but he found time
to have one himself on Benno's invitation, and to
show some interest in Benno’s grievance. Then
he had another to avoid the worry of giving the
clerk his change.
heeling that right was with him, and that the
weight of public opinion was behind him, Benno
no longer took the trouble to disguise his enmity.
He passed a gibe or tw'o to Did Cootie, but Did
was not looking for trouble, and heard nothing.
Benno grew valiant, and bumped his enemy
several times in the course of a dance. Cootie
found nothing in this to object to. Fie went on
dancing very amiably.
Mr. Dickson realised now that he had a “soft
thing.” It was plain that Cootie would take it
lying down. Benno became reckless in his attacks
and in his loud criticism of Did’s dress, appear-
ance, and manner of dancing. Several young
gentlemen, hurt by Cootie’s success with their
girls, took open joy in Benno’s wit, and seconded
his attacks. Did was jostled a great deal, and his
feet were trodden on. Somebody knocked his
boxer from its peg, and walked in it. The little
clerk was doing a violent schottische with Miss
Bills, and, to hasten a climax, came into heavy
collision with Cootie. Did resisted like a gum-
butt. Benno ricochetted and went down hard,
slid three yards on the polished floor and bumped
his head violently against the wall. It was the
last straw. Benno arose, spitting wrath. His
hair was disarranged; his collar was adrift; there
was homicide in his fiery eye.
“ ’Ere, ’ere, wot sort ! ” he said, throwing him-
self in Cootie’s way, his hands up, and sparring
decoratively. “ Yer lookin’fer it. Yiv bin fair
beggin’ fer it all evenin’. Put ’em up ! ”
Benno lunged a feeble left at Did Cootie, and
Did very calmly evaded ; and then he smote
Benno dispassionately. He batted Benno with
the open hand on the right cheek, then he batted
him on the left cheek, and then, with a forward
thrust, took the aggressor with the heel of his hand
right on the nose. Benno went down again,
harder than before, and this time he skidded right
across the hall, like a fish on a marble slab, fetch-
ing up under one of the forms.
Instantly Twitter Feeney was up in arms in de-
fence of his friend and patron. He walked up .to
Did Cootie with a leery swagger, and thrust his
face into that of Did, and his countenance wore a
look of ferocity terrible to behold.
“ Come orf! ”he said. “ ’Ow’s this, pluggin’
er bloke out iv yer class ? ’Ere’s where yeh get
it, see. Yes —yus —ya-as.” Twitter pushed his
hard jaw closer to Did’s with each repetition, then
he swung a destructive left.
Did Cootie ducked the lead, and stepping up
timed Twitter with such precision and such force
that the youth’s legs crumpled under him. -He
went down like a dropped sack and lay on the
floor, without movement, while the crowd pressed
round, gazing with silent, almost breathless,
amazement at the vanquished champion.
Dukie M’Kenzie broke through the circle and
grappled Cootie roughly.
“ Out yeh get, ’n’ get easy, ’r I’ll topple yeh in
ther drain !” he snorted. He made a cocksure
twist to get Did’s arm up his back, but the young
man from the produce store had an excellent
repertoire of holds, twists, and clips. He took
a jiu-jitsu turn on Dukie’s arm, and kicked up
Dukie’s heels, and Dukie hit the floor with his
ear.
The master of ceremonies arose, somewhat
dazed. Twitter Feeney arose still more dazed.
Benno was on his feet, but was not pushing him-
self forward at this stage. A line of angry
enemies confronted Did Cootie, who was backed
by Cilly Gwynne only.
“Jumbo!” yelled M’Kenzie, “Jumbo!
Bring erlong Jumbo someone, ’n’ we’ll blessed
soon clear up this gazob.”
Jumbo came, twining his sleeves neatly
above the elbow. Jumbo was an elephant of a
man. He could “ chuck out ” anything human,
and for years had been toying with recalcitrant
drunks and bad men in minor pubs and similar
resorts of the vicious.
“ Pitch him through ther winder,” said
M’Kenzie, “ ’n’ put it down t’ me.”
Jumbo advanced. He liked the job. Did
Cootie backed quickly to the end wall. Cilly
stood by him, shrilly abusing the company as
cowards and people of mean instincts. Cootie
was bent on escaping with honor. He was a
ready-reckoner, and, snatching the bright hydrant
from the neat folds of the hose on the stand, he
•said, softly :
“ Turn that little brass wheel, Priscilla. Turn
it hard.”
Did had armed himself with the hose insisted
upon by the Board of Health as a provision
against fire. Cilly pounced on the wheel, with a
squeal of rapture. The folds of hose jumped and.
pranced under the pressure of the rush of water,
and Jumbo received the stream full in the face.
Jumbo was a brave man, but he loathed water.
He fell back, gasping, and the flood got into his
mouth, and washed his false teeth into his vest.
Cilly gave the wheel another turn, and a hard jet
bounced off Jumbo’s large, taut corporation.
Jumbo was beaten. He turned keel up, and lay
gasping for breath on the boards.
The regular patrons who were backing M‘Kenzie
had formed a solid support behind Jumbo. It
was now their turn. Did Cootie played the hose
on Dukie, and Dukie collapsed. The great wash
struck Benno in the breast, and Benno rolled
over. Cootie followed up his merciless attack.
He kept the stream on his small foe, and washed
him across the floor and under the form again.
“The door, Priscilla!” said Cootie gently.
“ Put the key on the outside.”
Did ran the stream among his foes, and they
broke before it, and fled pell-mell, drenched and
ignominious. Then Did dropped the hydrant,
and leaped after Priscilla. When the wet people
recovered and rushed the door, they found it
locked on the outside, and long before an exit
was made, Cootie and Miss Gwynne were safely
aboard a city-bound tram.
The drenched company in the w'ater-logged
hall thought seriously of inviting the intervention
of the law', but wiser counsel prevailed. But of
all the woeful herd that went from Dukie’s dance
that night, the most w'oeful was Mr. Ben Dick-
son, the great “ cop-out.” His suit was wrecked,
his vest was spoiled, and his cardinal tie could
never be worn again. Above all, his amour
propre had received an awful shock.
Next morning the little clerk passed Did Cootie
at the store door in Egg Lane. Cootie smiled
quite nicely, as if nothing had happened, and
said, “How do you do, Mr. Dickson?” in the
pleasantest way. Here was Benno’s opportunity.
He cut the fellow’ dead.
EDWARD DYSON.
A Northern Idyll.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
pleasant where the Harbor meets
These Southern waters blue ;
There’s joy of life in Melbourne streets,
From Carlton unto Kew.
Fair Adelaide, beneath her hills,
In gracious splendor gleams ;
And Perth with younger vigor fills
The morning of her dreams.
True hearts Australian unto each
Beat loyally and fond ;
Their rival claims for cities reach
Out, over, and beyond.
But, Daughter of the North, whose eyes
Of trustful, tender brown,
Are aching for the cloudless skies
Above your native town,
Full well I know that, far away,
In day-dreams once again,
You see the tall maize nod and sway,
And hear the rustling cane.
The “ silky oaks ” are crowned with gold ;
All purple lies the pave,
In Northern springtime where the bold,
Bare jacarandas wave ;
And o’er the river flats the bees,
From out the lucerne flow’rs
Are freighting on winged argosies
Sweet plunder thro’ the hours.
The dairy herds above their knees
In long, swamp grasses laze;
Or chew a clover cud at ease
Through warm September days.
God’s glory on the hillside glows,
And Nature’s practised hand
Is tending every plant that grows
Throughout a teeming land.
From Copmanhurst to Yamba bar,
Through all the tilth between ;
From Chatsworth out to Yugilbar
The Earth is garden green.
Beloved of the North, once more
That symphony I hear —
The sunlit rollers to the shore
Sang in the morning clear.
Your crow-black hair was wet with spray,
As fresh from far Japan
A young Nor’-Easter called the Day
On all the pipes of Pan.
Impassioned by a summer sea
That wooed a tropic strand,
We drained our cup of ecstasy—
Your hand within my hand.
Yes, pleasant is this Harbor fair—
But oh, dear heart of mine,
What glory where the jungles wear
Their virgin robes of vine !
What glamor o’er each islet green,
The river rich with farms,
Is holding, like a conquered queen,
Within her lover’s arms.
What hyacinthine hours we shared
Beside the Clarence clear,
Whose water-lilies only heard
The olden story, dear.
Some night mayhap, when Fortune’s boon
Has lent a golden ray,
We’ll meet in jest beneath the moon
And walk the lovers’ way.
The wind will whisper in the maize;
And at our trysting tree,
To bring us back remembered days,
You’ll wait again for me.
Long, anxious years have sped between,
Since first our trysts began ;
But you are still my Northern Queen,
And I your Southern man.
For toil, nor care, nor age can dim
The sunlight of the Past,
When he with her and she with bim
Keep covenant at last.
Aye, all the fruits first passion bore
Shall from that Past come forth,
And we will lovers be, once more
Enraptured in the North.
N.s.w.
E. J. BRADY.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
m
Cc
A Grateful Mother Writes:
“My little son suffered ter-
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
be disfigured for life. But no,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide.”
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla—not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
OHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP. AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing- Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 y z , 2/9, & 4/6
fsd
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
[COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
hours.
AflIW
Each Capsule bears the name
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses • bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6cl. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss,
9
THE
FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in diningroom, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
druggists,
Groce is and
Hardware
Dealers,
among whom are
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St. . F. H. Paulding & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O'Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung A Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gottholf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoo &00. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., O.S.A
n
imi*
<97.
m
mym
y m
m
ft
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home —
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or -write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
SO LARI NE
Imparts to Metal the
brightness of the Sun,
hence its name.
Ask for SOLARINE,
and do not be put
off with any other
JUST AS GOOD—
there is NO OTHER
AS GOOD.
METAL POLISH
■
mV n
mm
m
5.V
o
i-Z
Manufactured by
N. QUTHRIDQE LTD., 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COLORED
and
At' 1 '
S fl«
POST CARDS.
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you ia
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose from the list of j ewellery which we forward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
post cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
every, case positively a» represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
GOOD LUCK
KEGAL POST CARD CVI26 OCONNELL ST,S> ONEY.
Are you Bothered
by Bi
Many people are. It is a very common form of liver trouble, and a
very unpleasant one, involving sick-headache, nausea, dizziness, and
often complete prostration during an attack. When you are bilious
you require something that will effectively stimulate the liver and give
speedy relief, and there is no better medicine for this purpose than
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
because they act directly on the congested organ, regulate the
flow of bile and carry off all impurities. But the good effects
of Beecham's Pills are not only confined to the regulation of the
liver. The complexion improves, the dark circles under the eyes
disappear, the head clears, and the general health is renewed.
Beecham's Pills are purely vegetable and a safe medicine for man,
woman, and child. Take them as directed whenever there is need to
Exercise the Liver.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1 h (56 pills) 8[ 2/9 (168 pills).
liousness
sawa^TT
W&i
IF YOU SEE A BIG WINDMILL
ANY WHEBE
IT’S SURE TO BE A
“STEEL WINGS
as all other makes are built in small sizes only.
BECAUSE—mark this fact carefully—they
have not got a bearing on EACH side of
the windwheel. This feature has made the
“Steei. Wings” Windmills famous for their
size, their power, their strength, and their
easy running qualities.
RESULT—SO per cent, more water
pumped, coupled with the important fact that
there is no costly maintenance bill to
face at all.
The Steel Wings Windmill Go., Ltd.,
Head Office & Works: BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
Branch Office: 107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Dept. C post Catalogues and Estimates on
application.
The Bulletin
t POST
PRINTED IN A PPIQ
SIX COLORS. i \ LJ O •
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OP TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness." From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, arid
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahbny, Hugh
McOrae, and “ Splash.”
Fonvarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co,, Ltd.,
UIU George Street, Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up .of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear:—
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt, ysual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5 Sale price .. '.. ..£2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. .. ... £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
0 0
‘ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
MEN
A NO
w OMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &».
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted ersonaily or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
To all persons suffering: from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out. • ' >. , r , ~ 4
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARCE his set of Lectures on Men’s special Ailments”
on receipt of this adversisement. f3P“ Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Buy a Good Hose
for the
New Year,
f
Make up your mind to get
a good < hose so that your
watering will be effective
and easy. We stock various
good grades of hose, and
specially recommend the
“A” sample of Rubber Hose.
The size 3-plv costs
17/6 for 30ft. Coils'; 35/-
for 60ft. Coils.
The |-inch size is 21/3 for
30ft. Coils, and 42/6 for
60ft. Coils. The f-inch size
is 23/9 for 30ft. Coils, and
47/6 for 60ft. Coils.
You can see other samples at our store, or we will send
them to you with our catalogue. Write for them to-day.
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“ The House for All Rubber Goods,"
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL AND
CENUINE BALATA.
sdf
J
D
<
DC
H
CE
<
The STRONCEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
*°impor,ers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
*
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven For Mining Purposes .
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Specialities s
METERS.
FERRANTI, Lffi, SYDNEY.
HEAD AUSTRALIAN OFFICE : E. S. & A. Bank Chambers, George Street.
SWITCH GEAR. High and Low Tension MEASURING INSTRUMENTS.
Send us your
ON OUR NEW SELECTION,
By STEELE RUDD.
Cloth binding', posted free, 6s.
FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., 214 George Street, Sydney.
COLORED POST CARDS,
By HARRY J. WESTON.
“WEEKLY WORRIES,” set of six, posted free, 6d.
FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., 2U George Street, Sydney.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED STEAM PUMPS
For Every Possible Service.
Large Stocks carried.
Write for Catalogue and Prices .
f-4
Boiler Feed Pumps.
Tank or Light Service Pumps.
Duplex and Triplex Pumps.
Combined Boiler and Pump.
Belt Driven Pumps.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 Clarence Street, Sydney,
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
Selling Agents : SMITH & COOKE, Melbourne ; PHILIP FRANKEL, Brisbane ; McLEAN BROS. & RIGG, Perth
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BARGAINS.
CONTRACTORS, MINE OWNERS, AND OTHERS.
1 7-TON STEAM EXCAVATOR.
1 3-TON HAND CRANE (NEW).
1 5-TON STEAM LORRY.
1 16 x 22 WORTHINGTON MINE PUMP.
2 138-H.P. HORNSBY WATER TUBE BOILERS .
1 GREEN’S ECONOMISER, 16 Sections Complete.
1 14-H.P. PORTABLE TANGYE BOILER.
1 DEAHNE FILLER PRESS .
NOTE. - Write us. We can supply all you want in Machinery.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd., Sydney and Melbourne.
