

E WAR'S
Distillers
to
By Appointment
H.M.The King.
WHISKY.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant,
'■ KXFLQSIVKS. BurLDBKS a.ni> UKN’Ki; a l.
Engineers’ and
l IiONMONG BUY. NKW
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
an.> SKCOND HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
S&cXHV, .%xMji b
SOUS AGENTS FOR
Jeffrey
Conveyor Machinery
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
'■f' | ' f AND
(28 William Street, Melbourne.
JEsEOJfc* A.HT.
(jadley’s Orient fjotel.
4
-r
T^o.meer
LEATHER
BELTING
e-VER V BELT ijUARaN lEt D.
4 Son Ltd.. 117 York St.. Sydney
~x
m
w
Take it back,
I must have -
PincAppk Brand
ws
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
QopcX
Hand-power Shearing
and Crutching Machine.
The most effectual safeguard against
the blowfly. Can be moved from
place to place, and puts the work
through quickly and well.
fnnn/rjr Shearing
V* J Machine Pty. Ltd.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
cm,,
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE .
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES.
W© make it a point of never being: out of anything:, Wc keep largo stocks of Accumulators and Dry Colls and all accessories.
Accumulators repaired and re-charged by Experts Your Orders solicited.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
drink npnr’c t Arrn ditr
* DlavlV » JuAwljli DljuXi
u
HANSEN’S
TABLETS
HANSEN’S JUNKET Tablets,
it
WHOLESOME DELICIOUS JUNKET
is made with these Tablets, and contains in itself the natural digestive principles
which enable it to be taken and "retained when other foods are rejected.”
Restores Health.” .NvTuoslnJikn,.
“Assists Nature.'
Ti k
Junket
■
HANSENS
malthoid roofing
all the qualities
necessary for a perfect roof.
It is easy to handle, simple
to lay, and absolutely
■water and weatherproof.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER). 6 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER waggons.
HOAD-MAKINC plants
a SPECIALTY.
THD CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
refrigerators
ECONOMY
"®hf if
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
- _ "T * ~ ■* — -w—v yr -y yr v -
HELIDON SPA WATER
A Table Water wbicb renders food
fermentation impossible.
‘s*u aSy
‘•oo v nitiod
-it ... .
The Bulletin
Vol. 30.—N0. 1528.]
[Thursday, May 27, 1909.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.8.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


MORE BOOK BARGAINS
'A3NQAS ‘A33HIS HOV3H33ISVO U
‘ an ‘ doad ‘ oa v Nosxaaaoa aoaoao xv
In this space last issue we quoted a number of New Books offered at greatly reduced prices.
Here are some more marked down to ensure their disposal while the sale lasts. We are
overstocked, and the chance for Book Bargains is golden.
Johnston : Napoleonic Empire in Southern Italy, 2 vols.,
24s for 15s, postage Is 6d.
Melville : Victorian Novelists, 15s for 7s 6d, postage 9d.
Parry : Annals of an Eton House ; Some Notes on the
Evans Family, 18s for 6s, postage Is.
Johnson : Life and Voyages of Joseph Wiggins, F.R.G.S.,
18s for 6s, postage 9d.
Taylor : The Koreans at Home, illus., 3s 6d for Is, p. 6d.
Thorburn : The Punjab in Peace and War, 15s for 7s 6d,
postage 9d.
Roseberry: Wallace, Burns and Stevenson, 3s for Is 3d,
postage 6d.
Buchan : The African Colony; Studies on the Recon-
struction, 18s for 9s, postage Sid.
Harry Furness at Home, written and illustrated by him-
self, 7s 6d for 3s 6d, postage Is 6d.
Smyth : Mast and Sail in Europe and Asia, illus.. 25s for
12s 6d, postage Is.
Andrew Lang : James VI. and the Gowrie Mystery 15s
for 7s 6d, postage Is. 3
Scudder: James Russell Lowell : a Biography 2 voR
18s for 9s, postage Is 3d. '*
Emmett: Ireland Udder English Rule, 2 vols. 25s for
. 7s 6d, postage 2s. 1
Wright & Smith : Parliament Past and Present; a History
of Westminster Palace, 643 illus. and Colored Plates
15s for 7s 6d, postage 2s 6d. t ’
Broilsford : Macedonia, its Races and their Future illus
9s for 6s, postage 9d. ’ ’
Beavan : Tube Train, Tram and Car, or Up-to-date Loco
motion, 6s for 3s, postage Bd.
Wragge : Romance of the South Seas, 3s 6d for 2s, post Bd.
THE
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing: No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and, Atoung.
The Lancet says : “ Proved to bfe effective bactericidally
as is creosojte.”
Unlike cousrh medicines, “ EUMIeNTHOL JUJUBES " do
not interefere with the DigestioA ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as thAir antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation j ,f the food when taken
after food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
COMPANY, LTD., 19 v| o bk street, Sydney.
The RED PAGE
: not do any harm to the up-
to-date reader, even the student of
Carl Snyder, if he glanced
ON THE FERRY BOAT.
Upon the ferry boat I viewed
The t o iW n; the livel y streets,
liw httie fort, the landing rude.
The eloS t 8 * ugs and white sailed fleets,
wh , lch far above us flew
Reflected in the billows blue.
Nor did my roving eye forget
xo note the giant ships which lay
Beside the wharf, the small fort self
sentinel above the bay.
which fluttered in the breeze
Rike some bright bird above the trees.
1 lru ed u aI1 ’ ’ twill ue y er die,
lhat harbor scene, that summer day,
But live a lovely memory *’
-till I myself have passed away.
> ° rt ’ a , nd shy, the billows bright
-Are all around me as X write*
(From, “Lyrics in Leisure”
by Dorothy McCrae.
Plato
or a moment at the greatest of
ancient philosophies. Prof. A E
lay or provides an excellent synopsis of
the hf e and works of Plato in Constable’s
1 fiUosophies, Ancient and Modern, for Is.
ne ' Here, as in a motor car, you may
rush through the whole territory of the
Orecian sage in ten minutes. The im-
pression received may be a blurred one,
but the prominent features will have
been seen.
The central doctrine of Plato is that
the phenomena of this world, the things
which we perceive through the senses,
are only approximate and imperfect re-
semblances of immutable, eternal entities
in a supra-physieal world. These Absolute
Realities, which Plato called “Ideas,”
are such as those made familiar by Euclid
the axiom, for instance, that a line is
length without breadth, represents the
idea of a line, whereas the lines we
draw on earth necessarily have breadth.
The changing world of sense was fashioned
by the “ W orld-Maker ” as far as possible
upon the model of the unchanging world of
ideas. And Plato held that the whole
visible world was a living organism with a
soul and body of its own ; that the soul of
man, a trinity in unity, is immortal, and
that “ learning ” is a process in which
the soul recollects truths of which she
was already in unconscious possession. ...
Forgive, O ye wise ones who have
digested the original text or Jowett’s
translation, this imperfect statement of
some of the notions of the Ancient Wise
One!...
After more than twenty centuries of
criticism, Platonism is still the backbone
of all absolute metaphysic; the strength
of the theologian’s answer to the sceptic.
A.ll schemes of progress which imply an
inherent movement of humanity toward
an absolute moral and intellectual stan-
dard are rooted in Platonic theory.
Literature is pervaded with it. Amongst
recent works, you will find it in Maeter-
linck’s essays. If you take down the
second volume of Bernard O’Dowd— The
Silent Land and Other Verses —you will
see Plato in his Common Loom :
Is there behind all men that live
An all-containing soul,
Whose symbols, apt for each one, give
A transcript of the whole ?
* * * *
Our many-celled abode, mankind,
Provides each unit guest
With a cheery common-room behind
Where the Silent Archives rest.
\f/
Let us now skip to the eighteenth cen-
tury. The sceptics and reformers, Vol-
taire, Diderot and the rest, were engaged
Scepticism
in attacking the theologians
who had created Absolute
-Realities much in th§ same way as
the savage who made his idols, and
then believed he owed his existence to
them. The sceptics sought to replace
faith in God with faith in Man; and
revealed religion with the supremacy
of Reason. By sapping the foundations
of the inter-twined Church and State
they prepared the way for the French
Revolution; and it was fitting that the
revolutionaries should symbolise their
triumph by the erection of a goddess of
Reason in Notre Dame. Worship of
something was still necessary, and Reason
was held to be infallible.
Yet, before the Revolution began, one
Immanuel Kant had published his
Gi itique of Pure Reason, which laid an
axe at the root of Platonism and led up
to the more destructive work of Schopen-
hauer and the nihilistic philosophy of
Nietzsche. Meanwhile other writers were
engaged in the work of emancipating the
human mind from the superstitions of
Reason. They generally accepted the
methods of science, but believed that, as
things are in a state of perpetual
flux, and as knowledge can be only that
of the relation of things, it is as often
wrong as right. Let us, therefore, bd
not over positive about anything. Man
cannot ever penetrate the mysteries of
life, and, if the Absolute Realities do not
exist, morality is reduced to a merely
relative code, the expression by each race
at any period of its taste in conduct.
Are not, as Ivipling said, “ the crimes of
Clapham chaste in Martaban 1 ” This
brings us to the position of Fitz-Omar :
Come, fill the Cup, and in the fire of Spring
Your Winter-garment of Repentance fling :
The Bird of Time has but a little way
To flutter—and the Bird is on the wing.
Ah, make the best of what we yet may spend
Before we, too, into the Dust descend ;
Dust into Dust, and under Dust to lie,
Sans Wine, sans Song, sans Singer—and sans
End !"
and to that of Anatole France, the im-
perturbable and polite disciple of Renan,
who has no hope, but a sweet compassion
for humanity and an impartial interest
in Life as a spectacle. It brings us also
to the depths of the despair of Huys-
mans.
W
Algar Thorold, in his Six Masters of
PKsilfrusion (Constable), provides ad-
mirably-written studies of Fontenelle,
Disillusion
Merimee, Eabre, II uysmans,
France and Maeterlinck,
with some notes on the philosophy
of Disillusion. It might have been
better if the epilogue had been made
a prologue, and the share of. each
of the writers studied, and that of
Renan, in the process of disillusion-
ment, more definitely stated. Anyhow,
it is an attractive and suggestive work
of literary criticism. His first subject,
Fontenelle, was a sceptic in morals, and
a populariser of science in the seven-
teenth century; interesting in this con-
nection as a precursor of the eighteenth
century spirit of criticism. Merimee, a
pure materialist, was an exquisite artist
in words, impassively portraying the pas-
sions of simple characters, puppets always
in the hands of Fate. His influence as
a disillusionist was indirect. The article
on Huysmans is a good one, and should
be read with the more elaborate study by
Havelock Ellis
in Affirmations.
But how comes the mystic Maeterlinck in
Thorold’s galley ? It is true that lie con-
siders him only as the moralist of Wisdom
Maeterlinek
and Destiny and the other
essays. Arthur Symons has
treated the Belgian as a symbolist rightly
enough, but to rank him as a disillusionist
strains the meaning of the term. Maeter-
linck is really one of the great teachers of
this generation, whose art'is the servant of
his philosophy. And here is the latest
specimen of it to speak for him.
The Blue Bird is a fairy play in five acts,
translated into English by A. T. De Mattos
(Methuen). Tyltyl and Mytyl, two chil-
dren of a woodcutter, are visited by a
fairy, who wants them to find the
Blue Bird for her little girl, who is
very ill. She gives the boy, Tyltyl, a
magic hat with a diamond, which enables
him to see the souls of things and the past
and the future. When he puts on the hat,
the dog and cat, sugar and milk, fire and
light begin to talk, and are told by the fairy
to accompany the children in their search.
They meet first at the fairy’s palace, where
the cat turns agitator :
The Cat : Listen to me ! . . . All of us here
present, Animals, Things and Elements, possess a
soul which man does not yet know. That is why
we retain a remnant of independence ; but, if he
finds the Blue Bird, he will know all, he will see
all and we shall be completely at his mercy. . . .
This is what I have just learned from my old
friend, Night, who is also the guardian of the
mysteries of Life It is to our interest,
therefore, at all costs to prevent the finding
of that bird, even if we have to go so far
as to endanger the lives of the children them-
selves. . / . Are we not, all of us, Water, Fire
and you y*burselves, Bread and the Dog, the
victims of a nameless tyrafiny Do you re-
member the time when, before the coming of the
despot, we wandered at liberty upon the face of the
earth ? Fire and Water were the sole masters of
the world ; and see what they have come to ! . . .
As for us puny descendants of the great wild
animals. .. . Look out ! . . . Pretend to be
doing nothing ! . . . I see the Fairy and Light
coming. . . . Light has taken sides with Man ;
she is our worst enemy. . . .
They go to the Land of Memory, where they
meet their dead grand-parents, who are only
waiting for the thought of the Living to come
and wake them. The next act begins in the
palace of Night, to whom the Cat had hurried
on to explain matters. Night is disturbed :
I cannot understand Man these last few years.
.. . What is he aiming at? Must he absolutely
know everything? Already he has captured a
third of my Mysteries ; all my Terrors are afraid
and dare not leave the house; my Ghosts have
taken flight; the greater part of my Sicknesses
are ill. .. .
The children, Light and the others
arrive, and Tyltyl, with the diamond, in-
spects Nature’s secret chambers in search
of the Blue Bird. On opening the last door
he has a vision of Heaven :
A dream garden bathed in nocturnal light
where, among stars arid planets, illumining all
that they touch, flying ceaselessly from jewel to
jewel and from moonbeam to moonbean, fairy-
like blue birds hover perpetually and har-
moniously down to the confines of the horizon,
birds innumerable to the point of appearing to be
the breath, the azured atmosphere, the very sub-
stance of the wonderful garden.
They get as many of the blue birds as
they want, but on bringing them out Tyltyl
finds they were all dead.
Tyltyl and Mytyl get back home by
waking up next morning from their dream.
They-find that their own turtle dove in the
cage is desired by a neighbor for her sick
daughter and has become a Blue Bird.
v!/
Perhaps you have lost your interest in
fairy tales, but this is one of great beauty
and full of fine thought. It is impossible to
imagine it on the stage of to-day, even with,
a liberal addition of knock-about farce and
patriotic songs. “Shakespeare for mario-
nettes,”' was Maeterlinck’s 'own description
■of his early dramas—like this, “ all drenched
with the tears and mystery of things.”
The Blue Bird embodies the idea expressed
in Maeterlinck’s essays, as stated by
Thorold:
The kingdom of heaven is solely within us ; it
exists only as an ideal, only in relation to human
appreciation and discour.-e, that is to our mind.
.... The law of man’s progress has been the
growth of his knowledge of his environment,
which at first, indeed, appears hostile, but which,
at the magic touch of.human will and brain,-shows
itself more and more plastic. It is as if Nature
-were coming gradually to recognise her master, in
proportion as that master enters by degrees into
the kingdom of reason implicit in lbs conscious-
ness. Man is. on the whole, wiser and better .. .
and the vistas of knowledge open more widely,
more surely, more radiantly. If anything be
needed to turn the balance of abstract considera-
tion, we are justified in trusting to that indomi-
table courage, to that unflagging resolution of the
human will, to realise by its creative power the
ideals of the spirit which have brought us so far
on our long pilgrimage.
This is disillusion with a difference,
surely ?
Viz-
it is not for nothing that Maeterlinck’s
Bird is blue. That is the color of the tra-
ditional bird of fantasy ; though Longfellow,
in telling the story (in The Golden Legend)
of the monk led away into the forest and
returning to find that 'a hundred years had
elapsed, makes the bird white. You may
remember that Victor Daley saw it in “A
Vision of Youth ” ;
He rode along with rein so free,
•And as he rode, the Blue
Mysterious Bird of Fantasy
Ever before him flew.
And Jean Moreas failed to see it at all,
for he tells us in “ Oisillon Bleu” (Les
Sijrtes) :
Little blue bird with time-colored wings,
Long have I sought thee by rivers and springs,
Long have I sought thee on mountain and plain—
vain
n/r‘^y nCS leisure, by Dorothy Frances
McCrae, now Mrs. Perry (Lothian, Melb.;
Is.), is a dainty little book of delicate butter-
fly flittings in verse, and a few snatches of
genuine song. Sydney ought to be pleased
with a generous “Tribute ” :
O Sydney, till again we meet,
My eyes are hungry for your blue I
My heart is aching for your heat,
Your scent, and sound, and radiant hue.
io-night, across the leagues of sea,
My soul goes out in love to thee !
Miss McCrae belongs to a family already
distinguished in Australian literature, and
has inherited a poetical faculty that deserves
cultivation. As these lyrics are avowedly
written in leisure, a little more pains might
have strengthened some, which consist
mainly of a few lines repeated again and
again. Nevertheless the collection is a
charming one.
' — 4-
Will Dyson unburdened himself in Mel-
bourne, the other night, on the Black art
(for, after all, the paper-maker supplies most
of the White), Some concluding remarks :
f often think that my lot as a caricaturist is
hard, in that it has fallen in a period in which the
horticulture of the beard is a lost art. It is
whiskers that make a caricaturist’s fame, not the
ability to display for daws to peck at the hidden
infamies of public men.
In the turmoil of politics, one point is over-
looked by the elector who screams for the man of
action. What the country really wants is leaders
with a capacity for being patiently ridiculous—
men who lend themselves to humor, raw material
for the caricaturist. It has Been said that we
want measures not men, but we really want faces—
faces with quaint turns, comic faces, lop ears, boss
eves, wry mouths —not wise men, but mugs. Mr.
Deakin’s beard is some assistance, but it might go
further. Only Frenchmen know how to shave.
Alfred Dealcin, with little knobs of whiskers like
pompoms distributed over his face, would be, if
not a thing of beanty, at least a joy for ever.
Of course we are all grateful to Mr. George
Reid, grateful for his eye-glass, for his cultured
rotundity, for the quaint little trick he has of
turning in his toe's. Mr. Reid might be improved
by a Kaiser William moustache, and two buttons
of whisker on his chin, but he does verv well as he
is, and his death would eclipse the gaiety of
publications. ,
We have to be grateful to Mr. Hughes, too, for
having the kind of face he has. Sweet are the
Hugheses of adversity, but Billy Hughes is not
one of them. He does not merely lend himself to
caricature, he gives himself with whole-hearted
prodigality. Mr. Knox is another good soul.
Fearing that his natural points were not prominent
enough for the anxious caricaturist, hej* bought a
hat. Some men are born famous, some achieve
fame, but Mr. Knox bought a hat. I advise young
and timid politicians seeking the bubble of repu-
tation to go in for eccentric hats.
; Some day I shall write a book for budding poli-
ticians conveying all these points and a few more.
Pretty men must be persuaded to avoid politics.
There is room for them on the stage and in the
cotton sock department.
« h
A comprehensive view of “people and
things American ” is furnished by two Aus-
tralians, Mr. and Mrs. Grattan Grey, in a
substantial volume called With Uncle Sam
and His Family (Geo. Robertson- and Co,).
There is a popular account of American his-
tory and institutions, and a series of per-
•sonal impressions of the manners arid char-
acter of the people, which will enable the
reader to get a very fair idea of what Uncle
Same and his U-nited States are like.
J. H. Maiden's Forest Flora of N.S.W.
continues its useful career. Part 34 is now
issued.
W. W. Froggatt, Government Entomolo-
gist of N.S. W., sends a handsomely printed
Official Report on Fruit, Fly and other Pests
investigated by him in various countries
(1907-8). The lot of the poor fruit-grower
would be sad indeed if it were not that most
of the insects have their own parasitic pests
to bite ’em and keep ’em down ; and there
are other antidotes referred to in the Report.
Jennings Carmichael (Mrs. Mull is), an
Australian verse-writer who published a
volume in 1895, went to England and died
there in 1904. Her verses were of the senti-
mental order, tinged with the melancholy
that an earlier generation of Australian
writers always found in their ink. In some
lines to A. L. Gordon, she explained :
I, singing in the under-world of song,
Hear haunting lilt of metres, tense and strong,
That to the spirit cling.
Thy mournful note has lingered in the land.
Our songs are sad before we understand
The sadness that we sing 1
She has left three sons who are now inmates
of a workhouse, and Mrs. May Vivienne is
asking for subscriptions in order to bring
the boys out to Australia, where one of them
was born. Moneys may be sent to the
Editor, The Register , Adelaide.
Haeckel — His Life and Work, by VV.
Bolsche, translated by J. .McCabe (R.P. A.
sixpenny series), is a good account of the
man and the development of his monistic
philosophy.


A
Ck
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR BICYCLES.
THE UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
The UNIVERSAL BICYCLE is
built at our own works of Genuine
B.S.A. parts, and is fully warranted.
The finish is the highest quality, and
the machine is guaranteed for 12
months.
Complete with Oceanic Tyres, £lO
Complete with Dunlop Tyres, £ll
With Eadie Coaster Hub, Free
Wheel and Dunlop Tyres, £ll 10s.
THE UNIVERSAL SPECIAL BICYCLE, fitted with Eadie Two-Speed Gear, giving
gears of 90 and 70, complete with Free Wheel and Rim Brake, £l6*
THE ROYAL ENFIELD BICYCLE.
THE ROYAL ENFIELD is built by the
Royal Enfield Cycle Co., Redditch, England,
of the HIGHEST GRADE MATERIALS.
The FRAME is finished Black and lined in
Colors, and the rims and all bright parts are
HEAVILY NICKEL PLATED.
Complete, with HYDE FREE WHEEL,
2-Rim Brakes, ENGLISH TYRES, Mud-
da
guards, Inflator, and Tool Bag.
GENT.’S MACHINE, £9; LADIES’, £9 10s.
LADIES’ ROYAL ENFIELD.
Our Unique {System of ;Spot Cash
trading plays havoc with the
Bicycle Trade, and enables fus to
offer High-Class Bicycles in con-
formity with our rule of
TOP QUALITY at BOTTOM PRICE.
Write for our Price List of Bicycles
and Sporting Materials, posted free
on application, and reap the full
benefit of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
THE AUTOMATIC *
KNITTING MACHINE
combines Pleasure and Profit, and is useful in every Home,
The AUTOMATIC is the original Circular Knitter, with unique and up-to-date
improvements, and is brought within reach of every purse by
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
POINTS OF <
THE
AUTOfIATIC.
Rapid in action.
Substantial con-
struction.
Quickly learnt.
Suitable for
family or busi-
ness use.
Does not easily
get out of order.
Will last for years.
if-
Wi:,i llk.r'-lM
II 1.1
COMPOUND
KNITTER,
with 60 or 72
Needle Grooves,
£B/15/-
Smaller
Sizes
from
£7/2/6.
,THE . . .
AUTOMATIC
Provides interest-
ing home work,
and earns good
money.
Knits undercloth-
ing and fancy
goods.
Does plain or
ribbed work.
Knits socks in 20
minutes.
Refoots socks and
stockings.
Produces articles
in daily demand.
THE AUTOMATIC is unsurpassed for Quality, Speed and Durability, as well as for
the wide range of work that can be produced, and is
THE CHEAPEST, BECAUSE THE BEST, KNITTING MACHINE.
"Write for Illustrated Booklet, PLEASANT WORK THAT PAYS, posted
free on application.
A PRACTICAL MACHINE,
PORTABLE, RELIABLE,
and SERVICEABLE.
UNIVERSAL KEYBOARD,
EASILY MANIPULATED,
and RAPIDLY LEARNT.
THE J JMIOR TYPEWRITER is built for hard usage, to last a lifetime, and is almost the equal of the highest price machine.
The Junior has the standard keyboard of 84 characters, makes one carbon copy, writes in sight, and is a compact practical Typewriter.
Ease of operation is one of the greatest recommendations of the Junior, whilst for convenience, economy, and portability it is invaluable.
The Junior Typewriter will do beautiful
clean-looking work which cannot be dis-
tinguished from that of the larger, machines.
It will teach business methods, business
forms, and business exactness to the ambitious
boy or girl.
The Junior Typewriter is invaluable from
every standpoint ; for the teacher, the student,
the literary man, the professional man, and
the commercial man it affords a machine
that will eliminate all writing troubles.
The Junior Typewriter does everything
the most expensive machines do, and does it
as easily and neatly.
■WYE JUNIOR TYPEWRITER
Thoroughly Practical. Compact and Durable.
Every part of the Junior Typewriter is
made of the best hardened steel, and the most
skilled labor furnishes the workmanship.
The type face is identical with the larger
machines. The adjustment is accurate, and
the type alignment is safeguarded by a
special device.
All Junior Machines are guaranteed by
the makers.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
PRICE—
£3 15s.
Posted Free—N.S.W., £3 16s. 6d.
Other States, £3 18s.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ TRIUMPH Briar Pipes.
THE BEST Is. BRIAR PIPE.
The II- Triumph Briar is the best 1/- pipe offered south of the line, and provides
a cool, sweet smoke. The briar for this pipe is specially selected, and the finish is
better than that of many higher-priced pipes.
Price 1/-
By Post, 1/2
5 6
9
Price 1/-
By Posf, 1/2
Selected Briar,
Vulcanite Stem.
NO BETTER BRIAR PIPE MADE.
The 4/6 Triumph Briar Pipe is guaranteed to be of the finest materials and
made by the highest-skilled British labor. The 4/6 Triumph is London made, Sterling
Silver-Mounted, with Hand-Cut Vulcanite Push Mouthpiece, and will not crack or burn.
Price 4/6
By Post, 4/8.
X
25
26
28
29
Price 4/6
Silver=
Mounted
Push Stems.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


AND OTHER
SKINS
SEND TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON 8 Co. Ltd.,
Sydney's Leading Skin Salesmen -
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
i_. t< i.
s YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES. TALLOW and MAT?STUPTAT sjTrrNrc:
towdSin? Sc de<3 t0 H b ;i ° Ur Staff ° f h ' gh ! y effieient EXPERTS, who atStfon
fc hV disposing to verv best advantage. Account Sales rendered prompSlv.
theirSS tiona facihties are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
tneir grain. ull particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Ag-ents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade « BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE ~ms
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Horse and Cattle Doc-
tor, by J. H. Walsh. An in-
valuable treatise on the
various Diseases of Horses
and Cat fc 1 e—C aus e s,
Symptoms, Treatment.
1/-, posted 1/2. Hamilton’s
Great Stable Manual and
Horse Doctor, S/6. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Freemasonry,
Explained, 1/3. Ne tv
Tricks with Cards, 1/-.
How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-.
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying - and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, B{l.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stance,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEDP'S" COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS,
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Ride only
BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
All Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free-
B. BROOKS & Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham,
England.
NATURAL
EN O’S
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
1801 Longevity — 190 S
Famous Centenarians.
Length of years is commoner than of old —centenarians are
on the increase. This is partly due to greater enlightenment in
Inatters of hygiene, but not a little to those famous centenarians,
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, which have been regularly prescribed
by the medical profession since the year 1801. Truly a glorious
record! They are simply unrivalled as a remedy for all dis-
orders of the liver, stomach and bowels.
KL
Q
PILLS.
n
sss
CONGO ROOFING
Just what you want to settle your roof problems. A permanent
reliable roofing, that anyone can apply themselves. Put up
in compact form, absolutely impervious to moisture, stands
any climate, lasts indefinitely.
Will outlast corrugated iron and being a non-
conductor of heat, is much cooler.
Congo is the “ Never-Leak Roof.”
Send for free samples to any of the addresses below—-
hi anujac/ured I y BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co-,
Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd.,
Sydney; John Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne; Cebrgre Wills
& Co., Brisbane ; Millar’s
Karri Jarrah Co., Perth,
West Australia.
iI?, t
n„»rn A ° l O
r' r ' r rft
5 B
JrSCff
rtrfia ,,r
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
DEBILITATION,
NERVOUSNESS.
HOW HEALTH WAS RESTORED.
“ When I first made the acquaintance of
Clements Tonic, some twelve years since, I was
living in Croydon,” said Mrs. Edith Browne, of 63
Mount Vernon Street, Forest Lodge, “and my
memory is so clear concerning the details of my
illness that it seems only yesterday that I threw
all my infirmities away.”
“If you don’t mind, I’d like you to give me an
outline of your sufferings,” remarked the writer.
“ How long were you ailing?”
“Quite eighteen months, and during that time
I was treated by several doctors, besides being an
indoor patient of a hospital for six weeks, from
which institution 1 returned home as bad as ever,
and it really seemed to me that I was never going
to get well again. For a mother with a young
family to be in such a plight as I was in is enough
to break one’s heart to contemplate, and my prin-
cipal reason for giving my experiences for public
circulation is that I hope to assist other women in
throwing off their ailments, as I did. My nerves
were in a shockingly bad state —fairly jangling
together.”
“Did the doctors say what was wrong with
you, Mrs. Browne?”
“ They said I was dyspeptic, and greatly debili-
tated, and well I know it. I might say I was
so fearsome that even my own shadow frightened
me. Oh !it was a wretched condition to be in,
with nothing but worry and trouble, and suffering
for my daily companions. But I believe nervous-
ness to have been the most awful bane of my life.
YouVe.no idea how I was. The imaginations
that filled my~brsih were simply hideous. They
actually made me shudder. If I slept at all, whicli
was very seldom, I would wake up from dreams
that were ugly in the extreme —always fraught
with circumstances and happenings of a dreadful
nature, and I’d find myself shaking from head to
foot. I’d be afraid of falling asleep again, because
those dreams were too terrible to bear repetition.
During both day and night I always had an idea
that somebody was standing at the back of me,
with some evil object, of course ; and to tell you
the truth, my life was unbearable. For six
months I could -take only the lightest of food, and
very little of that, so you may conjecture that I
diminished in weight a good deal.”
“Do you require to exercise discretion over
your food now ? ”
“No, indeed ; not since Clements Tonic cured
me years ago, have I had to bother about what I
ate, or what I left alone, for it made my digestion
so sound that it doesn’t matter what I take, as I
can digest all foods readily, and that means every-
thing to a person’s health. If you can eat well, and
digest your food, there is nothing wrong. That is
my experience, at any rate, and so long as I can
do that I shall continue to be the healthy and
contented woman that Clements Tonic has made
me. Up to the time of starting with that remedy,
I suffered from sharp pains, which ran from my
chest right through to my back. I was never
without them ; also headaches and giddiness, and
I don’t suppose a woman ever lived who,was more
fretful than I used to be., Often, without any
cause, I would go and shut myself in my room, and
cry for hours. And I was given to fainting bouts
as well. All of a sudden a quivering sensation
would pass through me, and off I’d go. Oh ! often
I wished myself dead, and away from my afflic-
tions ; but now, thank God, I want to live as long
ss I can, to enjoy the many charms in this world
that are visible only to those in good health. My
gratitude to Clements Tonic for raising me up
when nothing else could, will last as long as there
is breath in my body, and so till then shall I
always advise other; sufferers to use the same
remedy, for I am firmly convinced there is no-
thing to approach Clements Tonic for curing the
ills I have mentioned. To me it was perfection.
It drove away those headaches, it completely
abolished the pains from the various parts of my
body, the fits of giddiness and faintness have died
years ago, my nights became restful, and—yes,
happiest achievement of all, my nervousness was
entirely banished. So publish these facts in any
way you prefer.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, EDITH BROWNE, of 63 Mount Vernon Street, Forest
Lodge,in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing thesamc
to be true, and by' virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
'J> &
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this sixteenth
day of March, one thousand nine hundred and eigh l ,
before me,
4] T. D. GLASSCOCK, J.P.


“For over 50 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
A
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been
used
first
by the
grand-
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
filler's
'Gherrif &eetoral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer &. Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
e despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to am one, on ten days* approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Co ven try FJyers
5L 1 Si BS . t ?“T,!2V e ® t manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
wanted in each dis-
r w trict. Large iiroflti
easily made. Write u. onee, using sufficient postage,
en Catal^ues Special Offer
MEAD CYCLE CQ„ 2 Bo LIVERPOOL.
£3.10 to £9
ACTIVE AGENTS
rriHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
Mr. R. M. DONALDSON,
Drury, North Island, New Zealand
suffered with severe
chest colds
for over 3 years and the many prepa-
rations he tried failed to do him any
good. “I was advised” he writes
(March 1908) “to try SCOTT’S
Emulsion, and after three bottles my
cough ceased, and I began to put on
weight. In a short time my lungs
were completely healed and I have
no hesitation in saying that SCOTT’S
Emulsion saved my life. That was
over 4 years ago and I have been
entirely free from colds ever since.”
05 all
chemists
and
dealers
in
medicines.
The mark
by which
you
pick out
your
cure I
The SCOTT S Emulsion post-
bag last year brought this letter among
many hundreds recording cures by
SCOTT’S Emulsion, cures that other
preparations, all other emulsions, failed
to secure. The reason why SCOTT'S
Emulsion cures is not far to seek; it is
in the Emuls.on itself—purest ingre-
dients, perfectly and palatably com-
bined by the unique SCOTT process.
Scoff
Emulsion
is the standard Emulsion, standard in
the one quality needful in sickness,
the power to cure. No other emul-
sion has ever reached this standard
when cures are counted.
I /
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief ami cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for “BON IM INGTOIM’S’
9 Z *8 9/1
LOVELY WOMAN! ”
is the Name of our FREE BOOK
which tells
thin women
how they
may in-
crease their
weight and
develop a l
i m m ature
bust. It
tells ho w
thin people
are de-
veloped to
normal.
[3
5*3
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH-FOOD”
is a pure, medicated, scientific bust
developer and flesh builder. Harmless
and efficacious. In average cases
weight can be increased five pounds a
week, and inches are rapidly added to
your measurements. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial sample and free book, or
call if convenient. Hours, 9a.m. tosp.m.
FALLS ERS “FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Dept. 5,
Lindkn Court,
Castlerkagh St.,
SYDNEY
Mdntsej^
Sauce
n
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
jJsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed tree from Preservatives.
GRAND PRIZE, FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION, 1908
HORROCKSES’
Flannelettes
The very best the
Old Country produces
SHEETINGS
LONG CLOTHS
NAINSOOKS
Sold by all first-class Drapers and Storekeepers
Look for “HORROCKSES”’ on the Selvedge
G.&G.133
.** \
*V> .‘-•• L' V.
n
<1
The Most Perfect Bicycle in the World.
V —— —v« VJfc J4^4l#
FITTINGS fim h the la s hoddv'?m^'.- Han< !! >ool£ and lea , r ? how , to distinguish the GENUINE B.S.A.
y ,mitatlon - It costs you nothing and may save you a great deal. Post free from—
U. Y. RENNIE, representing B.S.A. CO. LTD., 5 Stock Exchange Bcfliing, Melbourne.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
tit
*t*r
b
&
H*9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Wholesale Agents—Elliott
Sole Makers: IKI. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grlmwade & Co., Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the Silver Moon.
(Irish.)
In my brain there’s an old rhyme ringing
To a sweet and gay old tune,
And I hear the colleens singing,
Under the Silver Moon.
On the white road, the white road,
At crossing of the ways ;
The boys and girls are dancing,
While the music plays.
Who is the Fiddler, tell me,
Shule, Shule Aroon ?
Who is the Fiddler, tell me,
Under the Silver Moon ?
On the white road, the white road,
At crossing of the ways ;
His name is Planxty Kelly —
And the music plays.
And what is the tune he’s playing
On this fair night of June,
Who plays his fiddle so bravely
Under the Silver Moon ?
On the white road, the white road,
At crossing of the ways ;
“ My heart is with old Ireland ”
Is the tune he plays.
The thrush and blackbird listen
To learn that sweet old tune,
While the boys and girls are dancing
Under the Silver Moon.
On the white road, the white road,
At crossing of the ways ;
And I would I were in Ireland
When that music plays.
V. J. DALEY.
The Ke-Awakening.
’Twas lilies, and lilies,
Lent lilies white as snow,
That lay upon her bosom
Long and long ago.
’Twas roses, red roses,
The roses of desire,
That filled her with their sweetness,
Touched her cheeks with fire.
’Twas moon-beams, and sun-beams,
And star-beams of the sea,
That in her blue eyes lightened,
Springing up for me.
’Twas snow-wreaths, and cloud-wreaths,
And sun-wreaths from above.
That fashioned all her body,
Angel-pure to love.
’Twas ages, and ages,
And ages long ago
She died into the lilies,
Boses, beams and snow.
MAOEILAND.
MUGWUMP.
My Muse.
When I was faint, and seemed all like to die,
From eating of the pallid, midnight fish.
Amid the thorns of suffering did I lie,
And all my life was centred in one wish.
I did not fear the crawling shade of death,
But shuddered at the hands that brought me
aid,
Shrank from the blight of a beer-laden breath,
While a red whisker made my soul afraid.
And you were far—l could not cry to you,
But arms of a great longing towards you cast,
My hope, my heaven, my life, to bring you to
My fever-haunted pillow e’er I passed.
And knowing not, though not unsought, you
came,
I felt the satin softness of your touch.
Cool, firm, and sweet amid the fever-flame—
Such dying could not hurt me overmuch.
Deep sunk within a heaven of happy thought
T? die such death were not forlorn of bliss ’
While with your eyes above my hot lips caught
I he soft rose-petals of your falling kiss.
MAOKILAM).
D.M.W.
The Funeral of a Flower.
’Twas at Thompson’s euchre party
That the wattle blossom died,
And the dustman called next morning,
So they threw it nil outside.
There the pensive poet found it,
And his grief was sad to see,
As I heard him ask these questions
Of his best-loved property :
“ Fairest harbinger of spring-time,
Didst thou golden tidings bring
To the fern-fringed streams of Healesville,
Or the sweet Eumemmering?
“ Budding, dipping in the flood-tide
All the dreary winter long,
Where the magpie warbles matins
At the foot of Dandenong ? ”
Then, alas ! the dustman tossed it
In his unpoetic dray.
And, with other vegetables,
Jolted all its bloom away.
Ah ! the pallid poet suffered,
For his very lips were pale;
“ Come, my friend,” I said, “ take comfort;
You have still the old sliprail.”
And he pulled himself together,
Wiped away a glitering tear,
Smiled a bodeful smile, and muttered—
"lt will bloom again next year! ”
VICTOIUA.
AENEAS.


imE
um
WUP
A
Ed
BW
“A Well Decorated House
Is Permanently Attractive.”
Wunderlich designs in Metal add that distinctive charm to
the ceilings and wall-linings that mahes the home perman-
ently attractive. And their long lasting qualities commend
them from an economical standpoint.
Every taste is catered for and handsome combinations can
be devised if desired.
The low cost of transportation and their immunity from
fire maKes these productions a great boon to country house-
holders.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Sydney Showrooms:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address}
Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms
243 COLLINS ST.
«7
If so, .Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., P ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Mclb., Bendigo, Geelong.
mm
HOTEL
METROPOLE
— SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay,
TARIFF , from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price .£1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accord eons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
USE
WELSBACH
MANTLES
THE THERMOS FLASK.
EVERY Squatter, Motorist, Yachtsman, and everyone whose work or pleasure
takes them out into the heat or cold, will find the celebrated THERMOS
FLASK invaluable.
It keeps hot drinks hot for 24 hours and cold drinks cold for days.
Fill it up with a pint of hot tea in the early morning, and when you
feel you would like a drink of hot tea, it is there just as when you poured
it in. Just the same with an iced whisky and soda, or any other cold drink.
Thermos, Invaluable for Infants.
Here, there, everywhere you go a Thermos proves its utility. In the
nursery it is invaluable.
In the park, away from the nursery, Thermos gives hot milk, clean —
fresh —health-giving. No trouble at all to carry.
At eventime or early morn soothing hot liquids always ready. No trouble —
no preparation —if your nurse has a Thermos,
The sick room lacks proper equipment if a Thermos is not to hand.
Workers with hand and brain, from navvy to monarch, use Thermos. Every
and anyone must recognise that Thermos is invaluable, indispensable; on
pleasure bent or on work intent Thermos is invaluable just the same. Depend
on yourself for a cooling drink, a hot drink —Thermos will provide both —a
drink that is fresh and inviting and can be had just when you want it. The
man, or woman, provided with a Thermos Flask waits no one's pleasure only
his or her own.
Makes a splendid gift from one friend to another, or for a wife to give to
her husband.
THERMOS FLASK, nickelled finish, and covered with plain leather, to
hold one pint, sent securely packed and post free for £1 lOs.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by p ost as a Newspaper.
Von. 30.—N0. 1528.
THURSDAY, MAY *27, 1909.
Piuos 6d
RAIL-HEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir Charles Metcalfe, who is leaving England for the Congo Border in connection with the further extension of the Cape to Cairo Railway, states that work on
the new section has already begun, and that 2000 tons of permanent way are being shipped weekly. Rail=head is now at Broken Hill, 375 miles north of the Victoria
Falls. It is expected that the new section will be completed this year, and that copper from the mines at Bwana Macubwa, near the frontier, will be shipped out
along the Rhodesian system before 1910 .—“Standard of Empire ” ( London) 19/3T09.
Australia’s Transcontinental Railway, constructed as far as Oodnadatta, 688 miles north of Adelaide, in 1891, is at a standstill. It has stood still for 18 years,
—Disgraceful fact
f 1 1HE Pharaohs rot in Egypt—Cleopatra’s dust is scattered,
Blown athwart the old Sahara by the sulphur-breath’d
simoon;
But I hear the fist of Progress! It has thundered, it has battered,
Rolling cataracts of mummy down the hurried slopes of doom !
Progress wins! The World is harnessed, tied with steel’s com-
pacting tether—
Past the Ganges and the Jumna swing to-day the freighted cars;
Where Zambesi’s storied waters plunge them down to regions
nether,
Flames the white Man’s engine-furnace splashing night with
funnelled stars !
Forward still —beyond Mozuma, past the Gwaai and Batoka,
Hauling fish-plates, dragging dog-spikes up the long Malundu
Hills;
Freight for Rail-Head. Hear the driver, likewise listen to the
stoker—
Space expires and Doubt collapses when the earnest White man
wills !
Shifting Rail-Head ever onwards towards old Memphis and
Assouan—
Drives his track for ever forward, wins his battle mile by mile ;
While the bones of Amenhotep moulder on in silent ruin,
He is reaching out for Cairo and he hustles towards the Nile !
Given lands to rule and work for—given strength that we may
use it,
Lo, we sleep beside our Rail-Head partly buried in the sand ;
We are careless of our Birthright, so we spurn it and refuse it,
And the hammer-haft has fallen from Australia’s nerveless
hand. - '
Yet _ the Heritage is calling: “Shift your Rail-Head, shift it
faster ;
Drive the spikes and bolt the fish-plates, wield the crowbar and
the drill;
Link your Northland to your Southland lest ye waken ’mid
disaster—
See! Thy kinsman moves his Rail-Head from his distant
Broken Hill!
“ He is reaching out for Empire ; he is ever forward shifting,
He is toiling while ye slumber, sleeping precious years away;
On your broken road pile sand-drifts that the cynic winds are
lifting,
For the winds that scattered Pharaoh mock this sleeping land
to-day !
Wake, my people, wake and labor! Toil with hammer and
with spanner—
Be not laggards all and shiftless, paralysed in brain and thevv.
Lift the fallen Flag of Progress—raise the White Man’s proud
old banner,
Shift your Rail-head, shift it nor’ward. Face your Task and
See It Through.”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Trinted and Published bv William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
/’«• Annum ... ... ... £l 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly' ... '* 0 7 0
sending direct to Tim Bollktin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Thk Bollktin posted
i etmlarly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Hoip to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Thk Bollktin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regal'd to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bollktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the oificial
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge, in the “ Correspondence " column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rtides, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newsvaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bollktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Thk Bollktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A imitf.iirx in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to Thk Bollktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draiun—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiik Bollktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Aostralasiax
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
Sooth Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancoovkr. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
Neios Agency,. Los Angelos City; Chicago Newspaper
Agency, 170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
■ Agents’ Speeiul Notice.
Thk Bollktin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x Ihin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MAY 27, 1909.
SOME BLOATED CITIES AND SOME
BLOATED FOREIGN-TRADE LIARS.
But the twentieth century bids fair to have a Jugger-
naut far more voracious, in the over-grown city, which
every year absorbs the brightest and best of the country
youth and steadily saps their physical stamina. It has
been stated on good authority that in about three gene-
rations the London family disappears. It becomes ex-
hausted, and dies out, and statistics tell us that the
physical standard of a city population is steadily dete-
riorating, notwithstanding the inflow of healthy country
blood. Yet we find, even in a young country like Aus-
tralia, with its thousands of square miles of undeveloped
country, that about one half of the population is
gathered in towns and cities, and in Victoria and New
South Wales about 40 per cent, are in the two capitals.
The' policy which has been steadily followed, and
WHICH, WE ABE TOLD, IS TO BE THE SETTLED POLICY OF THE
Commonwealth, is one which makes for the building up of
overgrown cities. Even that portion of the policy of the
Labor party which concentrates on securing high wages
for the city worker helps also to .congregate the masses
in the towns, where they crowd out one another and pro-
duce slum life of a degraded type. The home of the
backblock settler may be poor, his life may be hard and
monotonous, but his children, reared in the fresh open
air, are healthy, and in these Australian States they
seldom want a full meal, even although it may lack variety.
Australia to-day would be far better off if one half of the
city population were on the land, even if it meant the
sacrifice of our dearly beloved protected, but parasitic,
industries. —Launceston (Tas.) Examiner (Foreign-trade
paper).
But we can share the cost of a great naval base should
it be decided on, and we could at a pinch place great
resources, both in men and material, at the disposal of
the Empire. Sydney naturally suggests itself as the
position for such a base.—S. M. Herald (Foreign-trade
paper ).
Australia— young Australia—holds the world’s
record for the congestion of its population into a
few great cities. It may not have the largest
proportion of city population in the world—some
other countries, when the populations of a whole
herd of cities are added up, can show very re-
markable results —but in the matter of trying to
crowd all the people of a State into one city, Aus-
tralia can give a good start to all coiners.and win
easily. The Foreign-trade liar—most Foreign-
traders seem to be unreliable somehow—has
for years been ascribing this unfortunate cir-
cumstance to Protection, and whooping-up
the poverty-stricken doctrine of Cobden as
a remedy for it as for all other ills that
the public flesh is heir to. There is no
disease or symptom—not even gout, large feet,
swelled head, disbelief in the Scripture, or a sense
of emptiness before meals—for which the cheeky
and unscrupulous minion of the importing clan
won’t recommend his panacea, which is the abun-
dant importation of cheap-labor, nigger-and-Chow-
manufactured goods. So the Examiner, in the
quotation furnished above, pounds along a track
which has been worn smooth by the feet of many
previous liars.
* * * *
Yet, to any unbiassed person, it might rather
appear that it is Eoreign-trade which crowds popu-
lation into one bloated city—assuming, that is, that
the policy of the country, in matters apart from
the tariff, gives population every chance to spread
itself, and the fiscal policy is left to decide whether
the one great city shall bloat or not. Protection
tends to create manufactures, and manufactures can
be planted almost anywhere. Eoreign-trade aims
at raising, instead of manufacturers, a huge and
wealthy importing class, and as ships don’t go in-
land, the importer hangs about the shore and con-
centrates population round a single inlet, or one
or two or three inlets. In support of this theory
consider the following table (most of the figures
are from Federal Statistician Knibbs’s splendid
“ Official Year Book,” page 175)
Out of Every 10,000 Persons in the Country the
Number Crowded into the Biggest City is:—
Adelaide, S.A. (mildly Protectionist in the
Separationist days) .. .. 4541
Melbourne, Victoria (Protectionist) .. .. .. 4311
Sydney, N.S.W. (allegedly Freetrade) .. .. 3679
Brisbane, Q. (mostly Protectionist) 2504
Hobart, Tas. ( ~ ) <>l92
Perth, VV.A. ( „ ) " { 92 6
Auckland, M.L. (Protectionist) 904
Glasgow, Scotland (Freetrade) .. .. .. 1774
London, England ( ~ ) .. .. .. 1302
or including suburbs,
Greater London (Freetrade) 2065
Dresden, Saxony (Protectionist) .. .. 1147
Brussels, Belgium ( ~ ) .. .. gpx
Munich, Bavaria ( ~ ) .. 526
Paris, France ( ~ ) .. 704
Vienna, Austria ( ~ ) .. 641
Berlin, Prussia ( ~ ) .. 547
Budapest, Hungary ( ~ ) .. .. 3go
St. Petersburg, Bussia ( ~ ) .. .. 133
These figures knock quite a large hole in the im-
porting crowd’s lie that it is Protection which
causes people to crowd in an unwholesome fashion
into one bloated city, whereas Foreign-trade leads
to a healthy diffusion of population over the face
of the land. In Australasia a highly-protected
State is the one in which the biggest city stands
for the smallest proportion of the population,
and in Europe there is not one consistently Pro-
tectionist State which comes even within gunshot
of the awful examples of Glasgow in Freetrade
Scotland or London in Freetrade England.
* -» * „
Furthermore, it must be remembered that even
in the Foreign-trade days of N.S.W. that
State’s big city was a lamentable ease of conges-
tion and a case that was growing steadily worse
all the time. Here are some census figures :—•
Out of Every 10,000 Persons in N.S.W. the Numbf.r
Contained in Sydney at Different Dates was :
1861 .. 2745 I 1891 .. 3427
1871 .'. 2747 1901 .. 3597
1881 .. 3006 I
These figures seem to show that the congesting
process went on faster under alleged Freetrade
than under straight Protection. The one thing
which prevented Sydney bloating proportionately
quite up to Melbourne’s standard was the fact
that Newcastle couldn’t be abolished ; its coal
trade couldn’t be shifted to the metropolis ; and
the struggle to bring all import and export
trade to Sydney always fell down over
the Newcastle difficulty. But in other direc-
tions the congesting policy of the old alleged
Freetrade days was eminently successful.
The rural population of N.S.W. represented
in 1861, 5420 people out of every 10,000. In 1871
rural population was down to 5319, in 1881 to
4294, and in 1891 to 3472 per 10,000. A time
came, under the Cobden superstition, when
Sydney had more people crowded into it than the
whole rural population of the State amounted to.
On the other side of the case, out of the 149 country
municipalities represented in the census of 1901, no
less than 31 were decaying and showed a serious loss
of population as compared with the figures for
1891. There are in N.S.W. 140 counties outside
the County of Cumberland, in which Sydney is
located, and the census of 1901 showed that
43 of them were losing population. During the
interval between 1891 and 1901 the population of
the whole State increased by 226,899, and of that
increase 100,498 was in Sydney alone. When the
Foreign-trade period of N.S.W. produced such
results as these, it is too late for the arrogant
shoddyite to put forward his fiscal nostrum as a
dead-sure remedy.
The simple explanation is that it has been, and
still is, the policy of certain of these States—
notably Victoria and N.S.W.—to encourage the
compression of the people into one big city. They
have made the One Big City an article of faith.
They have lied, schemed, and swindled to make
that city bigger and more disproportionate than it
ever was before. They have sat up at night and
lost their natural rest considering liow the head
might be further swelled out of all reasonable
comparison with the body. For many years it
was a bitter woe and grief with the old*Cabbage-
Tree Mob of Sydney that its city wasn’t so
absurdly top-heavy as Melbourne. And when at
long last Sydney got the lead, the Cabbage-Tree
Mob felt good, and leaped wildly on its cabbage-
tree hat in public places, and shouted in great and
profane joy : “ Hu! we bloat ! We con-
gest ! We are more bloated and congested than
the other fellow ! We are getting along some-
thing dashed blanky tremendous ! ” All the talk of
the average stodgy daily paper and the average
stodgy triennial politician about their anxiety to
settle the country is sheer, impudent lying.
They are toiling 24 hours per day to prevent the
country having a chance of being settled. Con-
sidering that N.S.W. has a population of only
1,600,000, Sydney, under fairly healthy conditions,
should be a place with about 150,000 people. The
other 400,000 or so of population is a disease.
* • * *
111 the desperate struggle to make Sydney and
Melbourne the worst examples on earth, many
strange things have been done, and are still being
done. Specially low railway rates are levied, pro-
vided the goods go to Sydney or Melbourne for
export. To such an amazing extent has this pro-
cess of preferring one port over others in the same
State been carried, that, at one time it was
cheaper to send goods from Armidale to Sydney
and then back to Newcastle for export than to
send them to Newcastle direct ; the needless
haulage over 200 miles of rail was actually a
saving, because it enabled the exporter to take
advantage of the specially low rates levied in
order to drag everything to Sydney. With the
same end in view, the railways of both States
wander over immense needless distances in order
to reach the One Bloated City, and goods have to
be hauled over these immense, needless distances
at immense, needless cost. As regards harbors
that are fitted by Nature to compete with the One
Bloated City, various methods are pursued.
N.S.W. looks carefully after its northern ports
because they are such exceedingly bad ports that
they are never likely to admit large, ocean-
going vessels ; they only admit small craft which
plod down to Sydney with the goods, and
thus enhance the trade and population and im-
portance of the Bloated City. There is no
animosity in Sydney against N.S.W. ports which
are mere feeders of the city and are never likely
to set up an opposition show. There are at least
two harbors which might compete with Sydney—
Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay—and if they were
allowed to compete they would furnish N.S.W.
with two extra cities, and give the local grower a
market a trifle nearer than the metropolis, and do
a little for that more general distribution of
population than the Sydney daily press says it
wants, but doesn’t. It was reckoned necessary to
kill these ports quite dead in the interests of the
Solitary Huge City, so no railways have been
allowed to-connect with them, and no produce can
reach them for shipment except by dray. The
railways pass them by at a distance. This policy
has kept the southern part of the State an
empty wilderness, but in the interests of
Congestion the sacrifice is considered worth while.
Years and years ago an amazing pioneer built
something that was almost a city on Twofold Bay.
There were no railways then, and the old bullock-
dray traffic could reach one place as easily as
another, so in those days the great gospel of Con-
gestion couldn’t be worked out by the withholding
of railway facilities. But another device was
found. The authorities at Sydney prohibited the
showing of a light in the lighthouse that was to
guide ships into Twofold Bay, and Boydtown
became a bad debt in one act.
* * * *
Victoria has pursued slightly different methods.
It generously gave railway communication to
Portland, the splendid harbor of the West which
utterly eclipses Melbourne’s Yarra. But the rail-
way makes a stupendous detour at stupendous
loss; and if the people of the North want to
send their goods to Portland, which lies almost
at their door, they have to send them south-
easterly almost to Melbourne by one line, and
then back south-westerly by another line. And
to make assurance doubly sure, the rates, on that
back track to Portland are such large, tall, robust
rates that there is no business doing. The back-
track line is necessarily a dead loss ; Western Vic-
toria remains mostly a wilderness, and is steadily
losing population ; a splendid harbor lies blank
and neglected ; the town of Portland is a perish-
ing Sleepy Hollow ; the needless expense of haul-
ing goods over hundreds of needless miles to dis-
tant Melbourne is a huge burden on industry and
on the taxpayers—but the great god Congestion is
appeased with sacrifice, and the congesting indus-
try feels good. There are dozens of other examples
in different parts of Australia, but space is
limited.
* * * *
The policy of sacrificing everything to the
over-growth of the One Bloated City is still in full
blast. In the early days of Federation there was
an earnest demand that the Australian capital
should be fixed at Sydney in the interests of
Congestion. It seemed to the Congesters the
natural thing to select the biggest city as a politi-
cal centre, and so make it bigger still. The
scheme failed, but the capital has been fixed as
near as possible to Sydney—all in the same old
Bloated City interest. Then to-day, as quoted at
the head of this article, the S. M. Herald is cor-
dially recommending Sydney as the ideal site for
a fortified and well-equipped naval base for Aus-
tralasia. The idea, of course, is insanely
grotesque, but it would bring more popula-
tion. Land is enormously dear around Syd-
ney Harbor. Also it is very much wanted for
other than naval base purposes. Big gun
practice would be impossible in the harbor,
except at the cost of wrecking the city’s plate-
glass. window and scaring the steed in the city
street. Boat-drill would be dangerous in these
crowded waters. The case of the Dunmore proves
that. Manoeuvres of any size would. be out
of the question. No well-ordered nation has
its naval base at its biggest commercial port;
the idea of using London, Liverpool, Glasgow,
Cardiff, Marseilles, Havre, Hamburg, Bre-
men, Trieste or New York as naval bases
never dawns on communities which take defence
seriously. Britain, France, Germany, the United
States, Austria, Italy, Russia, Japan—they all
have their naval bases in quiet ports far from the
madding crowd of steamboats, where foreign
sea-captains can’t take daily stock of the fortifica-
tions and arsenals as they pass in and out, and
where there aren’t hordes of inquisitive foreigners
to press hospitable drinks on the artificers in their
spare hours, and ask curious questions. The
S. M. Herald knows all these things, but it re-
gards the further Congestion of an already
ridiculously large city as of more importance than
the efficiency of the fleet and the safety of Aus-
tralia. Congestion comes before everything else.
* * * •*
%
And in still another urgent matter Congestion
has got into Australia’s road. Everybody knows
that the transfer of the Northern Territory and
the building of the two transcontinental railways
are urgent matters. The Territory is vacant. It
is liable to be seized by any foreign Power
according to the international doctrine of “lack
of effective occupation.” It is about two years’
march from effective assistance. Our title to it is
insecure; Britain promised to formally hand it over
when the railway from Port Darwin to the South
Australian coast was built, and that railway hasn’t
been built. The safety of Australia is deeply
involved in this matter, but Australia is obsessed
with the superstition that Congestion is more
urgent than safety. According to present appear-
ances, the matter of the Territory may be hung
up indefinitely because of a demand that the Port
Darwin line should travel hundreds of miles of
unnecessary distance, at millions of unnecessary
cost, in order to connect directly with the three
eastern capitals. Their claim lies in their
remarkable bigness, and they are remarkably
big because they have swallowed up an in-
sanely large proportion of the population
of their respective States. Therefore, it is held
that special measures should be taken at
huge cost, both now and for every year to come,
and at the vast personal inconvenience of the
people for all time, to make these three cities still
more disproportionate. The ports at either end
of the straight line—Port Darwin on the north
and Port Augusta on the south—not being con-
gested as yet, are held to have no claim to con-
sideration. In fact, in the bright lexicon of the
daily press no place has any claim to consideration
except the biggest place. Australia doesn’t count
as compared with Congestion—the thing which
the same daily press declares is the short cut to
degeneracy, barrenness, weakness of mind, weak-
ness of body, and a general dying out of the race.
A CONTINENT TO LOOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I tramped o’er high Australian hills ; their deep
hearts held a store
Of iron richness, buried yet in red, un-furnaced
ore ;
And from their feet in black flats spread good
virgin tilth lands wide :
The smiling farms that-should-have-been—un-
fenced, unoccupied.
I mounted horse and rode again from sun to set
of sun,
The level plains that formed, afar, an absent
squatter’s run :
The sheep-lord spent his days abroad, while on
his closed domain
A thousand yeomen might have dwelled, with
each his wool and grain.
The station might a township be; and from a
hundred farms
A corps of Young Australians would, at need,
march under arms;
Nor would the rabbit fence that walled this
pleasant sheepwalk round,
In time of grim unpleasantness, one half as
staunch be found.
A thousand river miles I went —and fair on
either hand,
The fecund acres lay untilled of good Australian
land.
The precious flood went down unused ; but from
the Nile that year,
They drew, in surplus revenue, a million sterling
clear.
But loan on loan we piled, to build a huge deficit
up,
Put child-like trust in Downing-street, picked
doubles for the Cup ;
Devoured the latest cricket news and gravely
gulped our page
Of parish politics; and let the world-storm rise
and rage.
The school-room where, a child, I sat some thirty
years ago,
Me-chanced to visit as I went, thus wand’ring to
and fro.
Lo 1 on its walls still hung a map, and little
change I ween,
Upon its surface had been made in all the years
between.
It told no tale of centres new, nor inland cities
great;
Nor townships in black circles drawn across each
growing State;
But still the old, familiar names, the open spaces
still—
The western solitudes unmarked, the central
squares to fill. ,
But all the Outer World was changed; the
Afric-a I drew
In boyhood days, with towns and states was lined
and dotted through.
From Boston to the Slope I saw another map had
grown,
Australia (and Thibet) remained as they had been,
alone..
I found ray way to Melbourne town, and, think-
ing deeply, went
To see how our good laws are made in Fed’ral
Parliament.
The silver inkstand and the quill that signatured
the Bond
Of Austral union, long I gazed" with fervent eye
and fond.
I saw Joe Cook’s cold, fishy eye, and Johnson’s
saffron smile,
And midget Hughes and Deakin suave, and
Jawbone Neild the while ;
And as I crossed with rev’reut step the legislative
floor,
I saw again Australia’s map, hung in a corridor.
The padded cushions in the Heps, looked smooth
and soft and green ;
The Senate’s seemed a salmon pink, but just as
soft, I ween.
The chandeliers a pleasant light upon that
Chamber showed,
With attitude the members rose, with dignity
they glowed.
But, god of Bores, what dulness reigned ! With
empty form they drew
Parochial pothooks on Time’s slate, and wiped
them off anew.
Sour Bigotry its snake head raised ; State Insects
in the slime
Of Little Matters wormed and crawled while
scorning Deeds Sublime.
A-down that cool, tiled corridor, beneath those
chandeliers,
The map Australian virgin-glowed as in my boy-
hood years;
It hung upon the school-room wall, undotted,
blank, unlined —
A fringe of towns along a coast and Emptiness
behind.
Now slant-eyed cynics in the North, with Asiatic
guile,
Thumb lovingly a whetted sword, and speak of
Peace the while.
With High Ambition wedded to the Asian mode
astute
They’ve marked a map in Japanese : “This Co-
ntinent To Loot ” !
VICTORIA.
MALLACOOTA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Awful Ignorance of Tory Fairbairn.
The lamentable Fairbairn, M.P., of Victoria,
spoke another of his quaint little pieces to the
Vic. Employers' Federation last week. This time
his subject was the coming land-tax; and he may
be given credit for having studied up the subject,
inasmuch as he crammed nearly as many errors
into his narrative as was possible. Starting with
the assertion that the Australian Government’s
proposed tax amounted to 4d. in the £—which was
error No. 1; it runs from Id. to 4d., which is a
different matter —he went on to note the alleged
absurdity of taxing Queensland, where some
18,000,000 acres have been alienated, at the same
rate as Victoria, where 27,000,000 acres have
been handed over to more or less obese land-


owners. One can hardly call this an error;
it is rather an irrelevant joke. Next, he
babbled out the wearisome old lie that it was
understood at the time of the Federal compact
that the Commonwealth Parliament should only
impose direct taxation in the event of dire
necessity.” This is two gross errors combined —
it was never so understood ; and, if it were, the
necessity of breaking up the locked-up lands and
settling people on them is already dire enough,
Heaven knows. Next he declared that if anyone
put a big Commonwealth tax on land nobody
would buy that land. This, of course, clearly
proves that nobody buys land in England. In
that country local taxation on land amounts to a
great deal more than the burdens it will have
to carry in Australia, even with Fisher’s pro-
posed tax thrown in. The only difference is
that in England there is no exemption and
consequently no inducement to the big owner
to sell. Then this whole-souled blunderer
stated that if “ they ” imposed a tax of 4d. in the
£ it would have to go on all land—and straightway
stultified himself by saying the Federal Govern-
ment suggested an exemption of 5000 acres , so
that the tax wasn’t going on all land. The
blunders here are hardly worth pointing out;
still, it may be as well to inform Fairbairn that
5000 acres and the proposed Fisher exemption of
an “unimproved value of £5000” are not the
same thing, by several sizeable paddocks. Finally,
this politician with the brain of a small child made
the cheerful assertion that “when the State sold
land a deed was given, and that deed stipulated
that the sale was made to a certain man and his
heirs for ever.” None of the deeds this writer
has ever inspected made any mention of the owner
and his heirs holding the land for ever, and
seeing that an owner might want to sell, and might
not want to be tied to the same bit of land all his
life and have his descendants fixed to it till
Judgment Day, it would be a mighty foolish
thing for any deed to mention. In fact, it would
be so foolish—not to say insane, loony, demented,
cranky, idiotic, and gone in the head—that even
Fairbairn might be almost expected to see the
absurdity of his own yarn. Fairbairn made a
lot more surprising errors, which are omitted for
want of space. Before he commits himself
further, Secretary Walpole, or J. Cook, or
Iceberg Irvine should take him in hand and
teach him the rudiments of the land taxation
theory. Iceberg Irvine used to be president of
the Single Tax League, and is doubtless well up in
the subject. Ac present Fairbairn is simply
crammed with childish ignorance, and his name
ought to be Foolisiibairn.
♦- T.
Maoriland and Her Dreadnoughts.
Mr. T. E. Taylor writes : There still lurks in the
minds of some electors of Maoriland a vague
belief that Premier Ward possessed inside in-
formation from the Imperial authorities, the pro-
duction of which, when Parliament meets, may
extenuate, if not justify, the violation of demo-
cratic rights which his astounding offer of “ One
Dreadnought unconditionally—two, if necessary,”
constitutes. They cling to this hope, although,
when analysed, it implies a gross insult on the
part of the Asquith Government to Messrs.
Fisher, Laurier, Botha, and other executive
chiefs of self-governing British possessions, to
whom it is inconceivable the British Government
would deny information which some forlorn per-
sons believe it supplied to Premier Ward. When
the facts are volunteered or dragged forth, as
they will be within the next two months, I pre-
dict the most prodigal Premier of the Empire will
have many tangled apologies to make the State
whose trust he has violated. This time the news-
papers of the Dominion will make joint complaint
with the people, for they already show signs
of resenting the smart manner in which they
were, irrespective of party bias, captured by the
Premier. Although he could not find time to
consult by wire a member of Parliament before
involving that body in his famous £4,000,000-plus-
compound-interest promissory note, he sent a
“strictly confidential” wire (simultaneously with
the famous cable to Asquith) to the editors of
the Maoriland newspapers. This wire was
couched in terms which the recipients declare
justified them in believing that grave conditions
existed in Britain, undisclosed to the general
public and only guessed at by the press, and as it
doubtless flattered the editorial sense of power,
the Dreadnought offer was almost unanimously
endorsed by the newspapers. When the press
and the people realised that the Premier was a
willing victim of a carefully conceived patriotic
panic, compounded of much Harmsworth syndi-
dicate cablegram and more Conservative hatred of
Asquith’s social legislation even the most
plausible Premier in Australasia may wish
he had acted with less precipitation. That
Premier Ward has been guilty of the most
flagrant violation of Constitutional right ever
perpetrated in the history of colonial Govern-
ments, even those who applaud his offer admit.
They are beginning to confess that the offer con-
stitutes a meddling with British party politics, in
that it hands to Balfour, and to his party of in-
tense class prejudice, an electioneering weapon of
great value, appealing as it does to men’s
emotions rather than to their reason. From a
thousand Tory platforms, at the general elections
in England, electors will be asked to remember
the Little Englander Government which so far
forgot its Imperial duty as to force distant British
dependencies to lay their treasure upon the altar
of British naval needs, and much more to the
same effect. Even, if war between Britain and
Germany had been as imminent in March, 1909,
as Premier Ward’s offer suggested it was, his
offer yet remains a triumph of the Little Eng-
lander State-craft. It is also an admission that
Maoriland has so neglected its Imperial naval duty
that arrears of from £2,000,000 to £4,000,000 fell
due in March, 1909. But the grim humor of the
Dreadnought offer only becomes fully visible when
it is admitted that Maoriland, and for that matter
the Australian Commonwealth as well, has so far
ignored Imperial duty as to make no effective
defence of their shores against the German Power
we see, or the more dangerous Asiatic Power we
trust by treaty. In Maoriland we have harbor
forts which the late Premier admitted constituted
death-traps to those defending them ; big guns
dangerous only to those who, in the name of
patriotism, may be called upon to fire them; a
volunteer force that is disorganised and dis-
heartened; a Defence Council moribund ; magnifi-
cent coal mines at Westport and Newcastle
awaiting annexation. As Boys of the Bulldog
Breed we spell patriotism locally in such acts of
gross neglect and folly, and are asked to applaud
the panic patriotism that seeks expression in the
gift of a Dreadnought, which, if Britannia Was in
peril on the deep in March, 1909, would have been
available for the defence of the Empire about
two years after it had been ravaged by conti-
nental hordes. The quiet, dignified and states-
manlike defence proposals of Australian Prime
Minister Fisher come as a tonic after such thea-
tricals as Maoriland’s Ministry has indulged in.
Whatever measure of generous support Britain’s
oversea possessions accord the British navy, the
dominant and absolutely urgent duty here is to
begin in earnest to defend the great possessions
which have fallen to us. At present hun-
dreds of millions worth of the property
which Australasia has borrowed from Britain
lies around defenceless, and if it is ravaged
by an enemy Britain’s loss will probably
amount to more than the. value of a score of
warships. If the Dreadnought burlesque serves
the purpose of arousing the Commonwealth and
Dominion to do its present duty, it may yet claim
a virtue of which otherwise it is destitute.
♦
Cook, Nationalism’s Hopeless Ally.
Since his accession to the headship of the political
party which Gr. Reid misled for so long Joe Cook
has made about a score of public pronouncements.
In no one of them has he said a word to indicate
that he proposes to do anything, legislatively
speaking, if he wins to office and stays there till
he passes to the Jasper Shore. He got nearer to
a definite expression of opinion in regard to Aus-
tralian needs than he has any time these three
months when he announced, at Sydney Masonic
Hall, the other night that in his judgment
the most immediate requirement of the moment is a
return to responsible government.
For the rest, he is (or was a fortnight ago) all for
“ offering a Dreadnought to the grand old Mother-
land.” That is his idea of a sane, sound Aus-
tralian Defence scheme. He means (or meant a
fortnight ago) to heave Fisher into the outer
darkness on the Dreadnought-donating issue ; and
himself assume and hold office on the strength of
the i n tention to blew —all unauthorised —£2,000,000
of the people’s good red money in paying for the
construction abroad of a ship which Britain
doesn’t want and Australia has no desire to give.
That is the entire Cook policy on its constructive
side, so far as it has revealed itself to date. What
Cook means to do if he becomes Prime or balf-
Prime Minister of Australia will go into the
smallest variety of nutshell; the things that he
is prepared to fight to the ultimate gasp or
hiccup, or what not, would not fit into 14
Saratoga trunks. Consider a few of the latter.
He has announced his intention to combat, while
he lives, a Federal progressive land-tax. In his
view it is (1) “confiscatory Socialism,” (2) uncon-
stitutional—or, if not exactly that, at any rate one
of those things which his party has private stable
information was not “contemplated” by the
Constitution. He stands pledged to battle against
the New Protection ; likewise, as often as occa-
sion arises, against the Old Protection. Any
attempts on the part of either Laborites or
DEAKiN-ites to render the existing duties more
favorable to local manufactures will find in him a
watchful and unrelenting foe. Meanwhile he
blithers vaguely and at large about the country’s
“crying need of immigration,” and his own per-
sonal longing to see “a steady stream of popula-
tion ” heading to these shores. The local land-
hunger is so unsatisfied that the average Australian
land-ballot partakes of the nature of a riot,
and existing factories have lapped up all the labor
they require. How in the name of reason Cook
expects that without either a compulsory unlock-
ing of the Commonwealth’s great sheep walks, or
such protective legislation as will encourage more
industries, any “stream of population” worth
mentioning is going to head Australiawards he
omits to mention, On general principles and for
platform purposes he is a pro-immigrationist, but
the measures which alone will attract immigrants
are against his convictions, and he will have
none of them. He has expressed his disap-
proval of any form of citizen military service,
except the drilling of small school kids. The
thing which most of the big British military
experts, from Field Marshal Roberts down-
wards, have recommended strike him as both
ill-advised, and as “essentially un-English.”
Words fail to express Cook’s contempt of the
idea of an Australian navy. He told the people
of Marrickville (N.S. W.) early in the month that
he regarded the movement as an unworthy step
on the part of Australians “ to save their own
miserable skins.” It was one, he said, that he
would never be a party to. Cook wouldn’t regard
Nelson as a hero—only as an unworthy person
trying to save his miserable skin. Furthermore,
he considers that an Australian navy would be a
useless institution, devoid of discipline, fighting
capacity, and nautical skill. He is firmly con-
vinced that no Australian is worth a cent in a
naval sense. He contends against legislation
tending towards the opening up of the Northern
Territory, the building of Australia’s trans-
continental railways, the exclusion of so much of
the colored man as is possible from this
continent, and against every Federal measure
designed to ameliorate or brighten the lot
of the worker. It is this weirdly Tory
character who complained bitterly a few
nights ago of Deaicin’s conduct in arrogating to
himself the term Liberal, and who announced
that he (Cook) had no intention of “ surrendering
his right to that good old progressive title.”
Spurred on by which the S. M. Herald cried
wildly (21/5/’O9)
We ask again : Are the difficulties which separate Mr.
Oook from Mr. Deakin so great that they cannot sur-
mount them ?
Brown Brother.
The following two cheerful items come from the
Western District of Victoria, and they form an
instructing commentary on each other. The first
is from the Terang Express of May 18
Social at Noorat.
Send-off to Mr. Mota Bux.
A very enjoyable evening was spent at the house of a
Noorat resident on Friday night, the occasion being to
wish bon voyage to Mr. Mota Bax, who is leaving here
shortly on a visit to his native land. The gathering was
a large and representative one. . . . Dancing and games
were indulged in until 12, when the company sat down to
a very enjoyable repast, provided by the ladies present.
After supper, Mr. 0. Norris, on behalf of the company,
in a neat and complimentary speech, presented the guest
of the evening with a handsome travelling bag. . . . Mr.
Mota Bux very feelingly responded. Dancing was then
resumed, and “ Auld Lang Syne” terminated a very
pleasant and enjoyable evening.
The other item is from the Warrnambool Stan-
dard, of the same date, and is not quitg so
“pleasant and enjoyable” :
Claim for Wages.
Nuraii, an Indian (the “Mr.” is unaccountably omitted
in this case), proceeded against Wm. Halluvell for the
recovery of £l6 16s. for work and labor done. The com-
plainant said that he was engaged by defendant to work
for him at 12s. per week, doing milking, ploughing, and
general farmwork.
Wm. Halliwell said that complainant was working
for Mr. Beveridge when he (defendant) took the place,
and he agreed to engage him on the same terms, viz.,
10s per week and keep, or 12s. per week if he kept him-
self. He was willing to pay at the rate of 10s. per week,
with deductions amounting to £2 4s. 4d. for goods
supplied and time off.
An order was made for £l3 4s. 6d., with 325. Costs.
This paper was well aware that the colored man
had got the question of keeping life in himself
down to a very fine thing, but 2s. a week for a
grown human seems to be something really extra in
this direction. With brown men available at 12s.
per week and find themselves, there would be a
cheerful future ahead for country workers. And the
misguided action of Mr. C. Nokkis and his friends
who entertained Mr. Mota Box as related above
was possibly inspired by intense admiration of
his countrymen’s cheapness. It may be news to
Mr. Norris to learn that if he were caught at this
sort of foolishness in the United States he would
probably be tarred and feathered, and given 12
hours to leave the district. If he did it in India,
the home of Mr. Mota Bux, all white men’s
houses would afterwards be closed against him.
Incidentally, The Bulletin would like to know
whether Mr. Nokris took Mrs. Norris (if there
is one) with him, and whether she danced with
Mr. Mota Bux.
Rifles.
The Australian Government proposes to estab-
lish a small arms factory at Lithgow (N.S.W.),
and it is wrestling hard with the question of the
equipment of that factory. Rifles, nowadays, are
largely made by machinery in some countries; in
other countries they are almost wholly made by
machinery. As Australians haven’t yet taken to
the making of rifles, their knowledge of this
machinery is almost nil; therefore it is proposed,
in the first place, to get some foreign firm—
British or American —to supply the plant. And
here a certain amount of trouble has arisen. A
Brit.sh firm and a U.S. firm have tendered
for the work. According to the daily paper
reports there is very little difference in the prices
quoted, though it is not stated in which direction
the difference lies. But as Senator Pearce,
Minister for llefence, says he is prepared
to go so far in the way of giving prefer-
ence to Britain that he will buy the British
plant and apparatus, even if it should be
5 per cent, dearer, and as, despite this declaration,
he hasn’t up to now bought the British plant and
apparatus, it naturally appears that the British
article is the more costly of the two. Yet this
point, important as it is, is of very little account
compared to another feature of the case. The
cost of the plant is a small thing, for the plant has
only to be paid for once; the cost at which it will
turn out a serviceable rifle is a big thing, for it
will be making rifles all the time, and even a
difference of Is. in the price of each weapon
would amount to a tremendous sum in the end.
If the British plant turns out a rifle in Britain at
the same price at which the United States’ plant
turns out a rifle in the United States, then it is
clear that the United States’goods should have
the preference. That is to say, if the British
plant, with English cheap labor, can make a rifle
at, say, 355., then it is probable that the same
plant, with better paid Australian labor,
couldn’t do the same deed under 40s. On the
other hand, if the United States’ plant, with
high-priced Uncle Sam labor, can turn out a rifle
for, say, 36s. —Is. more than the English price—it
is quite probable that with Australian labor,
which in some lines of highly-skilled industry is a
shade cheaper than the American article, the fatal
act could be done for 355. Cheap labor clogs the
feet of invention. In a high-wage country every-
thing that can possibly be done by machinery is
done by machinery. Where wages are low, a
vastly larger proportion of the work is done by
hand, because flesh and blood are often less ex-
pensive than the brain-sweat and brain-struggle
involved in devising new mechanical methods.
But when the methods and mechanism of a low-
wage country are transferred to a high-wage
country, the cost of production mounts up in a
marvellous fashion; and this seems to be the hole
where Senator Pearce, with his desire to give
preference to Britain, is liable to fall in.
♦
Why Can’t the Women Propose?
•■O.K.’s” letter on matrimony:—
It has been seriously suggested by a thoughtful writer
that women should have a fully-recognised right to make
proposals of marriage. The marriage laws were framed
for women, the custom of solemnising nuptials with pomp
and circumstance was formed and is maintained by them.
A woman desires marriage for more reasons than are
shared by the man who, under existing social conditions,
ranks as the proposer of it. It is she, and not the man,
who stands to be pitied, ridiculed, and slighted in the
advanced stage of celibacy. She who has much to lose,
and nothing to gain, by not being married. Yet she is
reduced in her old maidenhood to the absurd necessity of
bemoaning the fact that nobody has invited her to
become a wife and lawful mother. Meanwhile the pro-
spect of becoming an unlawful mother is too appalling for
her to consider unless she be a rarely exceptional
female in very exceptional circumstances. The average
woman is more or less a suffering victim of convention-
ality in the courtship arrangement, whereas a man is
never “consumed ” by a secret passion for a girl who is not
disinclined to go into partnership with him. In such cases
she can sometimes make it clear to his dull understand-
ing that his passion is no longer secret, and that's about
as far as she can go towards a direct proposal. With the
man who isn’t “dead gone” on her, bqt would be
tempted by her frank avowal of “dead-goneness” on
him, a modest woman can’t do much. He usually slips
out of her reach in complete ignorance of the fact that
she wanted him badly. Women, as a sex, un-
doubtedly miss a large percentage of happy marriages,
and make unhappy marriages instead, as the result
of being condemned to wait for “proposals.” They are
driven, in the large majority of instances, to the desperate
resolve of accepting the first man who talks business.
They are said not to know their own minds where men
are concerned. The fact is a spinster is practically
advised to keep her mind a blank until she can write her
husband’s name on it. Her best policy is to wait patiently
until somebody happens along to tell her lie is the sort of
husband she wants. She is taught by experience the pru-
dence of holding her critical faculty—her intuitive judg-
ment—in complete subjection, so that she may not revolt
from the idea of accepting any ordinary suitor as the
prospective father of her children. Yet she is naturally a
more discriminating judge of the type of mate she wants
than a man is a judge of the type of woman who would
make him happy. It seems easy to argue that the human
race would be improved in posterity if girls were brought
up with the comforting knowledge that they would
in due oourse be able to get a husband for the asking, in-
stead of being, as now, brought up in fear of getting “ left
on the shelf,” because no mail asked. The objection that
a long procession of girls would propose marriage to
every worthless Lothario in the maiket is answered
firstly by the fact that Lothario could marry only one
of them anyhow. Secondly, there is the reasonable sup-
position that the sexual character of womankind—so
to speak—would develop studiousness Snd reserve
force under the changed conditions of courtship.
Whereas girls nowadays waste time and sacrifice much of
this charm in frivolous flirtation with men whom they know
to be unpromising objects for matrimonial design, they
might go more quietly and reflectively to work at hutband-
hunting if they carried a gun, as well as a net. The
chances are that they wouldn’t then be as rash in their
proposals as they now are in their acceptances. Their
chance of finding a husband quite to their liking would
be greater than is their present chance of being sought in
marriage by a congenial soul. Within the past 30 years
all sorts of chances of social advancement have been given
to women that were previously denied to them, but the
chance to propose in an ordinary way of social life
remains to be granted. It is time that Mrs. Grundy made
the concession. There are immeasurable possibilities for
good in it. It would give a new turn of interest to the
tiresome question, “Is Marriage A Failure?” and
silence for ever the inquiry “Why don’t the men pro-
pose ? ” The Lord only knows why the duty of proposing
marriage should ever have been assigned by tyran
custom to the men.
A Case Where Silence Were Wisest.
It is sound tactics for a politician whose stock is
slumping to put on his best air of confidence, hut
the manoeuvre may be overdone. Premier
Wade, of N.S. W., provided an example in point
when he butted in at the annual meeting of the
Liberal and Reform Ass., last week, to draw com-
parisons between the late Arbitration Act and
the existing Industrial Disputes Act. He asked
the N.S.W. public to believe that the Deform
method of attempting to allay industrial strife
had been a success of a howling order, in contra-
distinction to the old Arbitration Act, which he
claimed didn’t howl sufficiently to be heard
across the street. According to Wade,
the old Act “caused many to resort to strikes,”
and so, “ with the object of obviating the same,”
his Government was driven to introduce the
Industrial Disputes Bill. As a matter of well-
known fact, during the seven years the Arbitra-
tion Act was in operation, there were no strikes
of any importance. On the other hand, at least
two great strikes—a wharf strike and a coal strike
—were averted by the sole agency of the Arbitra-
tion Court. The Industrial Disputes Act has
been in existence for a comparatively short time,
and already there have been minor strikes
innumerable throughout the State —the more
threatening of which Wade, and not his Court,
was impelled to smooth down. It is a
rare morning these times that the Sydney
newspaper reader doesn’t unfold his sheet to find
that another industry is “out” somewhere. In
the last few months the two most serious indus-
trial disturbances the State has known (the tram-
way and the Broken Hill strikes) have occurred.
Wade boasted last week, in justification of
his measure,, that “at the present moment 64
unions are registered under it.” It is a point on
which he would have done well, from his own
view point, to be silent. On the day the old
Arbitration Act died there were 147 unions of em-
ployees registered under it, and 133 unions of em-
ployers. Wade, as Wages Boards apologist, went
on to allege that “it was expected the Arbitration
Court would command the respect of the public as
well as of litigants— and in all of these respects it
had lamentably failed/ ’ Yet the S. M. Herald,
a bitter opponent of the measure in its lifetime,
was constrained to use these essentially respectful
words concerning it (30/6/’O9) —which was the
morning of the day it lapsed :
It is not too much to say that never in the history of
industrial law anywhere have Judges shown more
patience, fairness, freedom from prejudice, and careful
tact than those who have presided over our Arbitration
Court. In the whole history of the Court we do not
recall a case in which a decision was given which was
flagrantly opposed to that already formed by enlightened
public opinion. The intention of the Act was excellent,
but ir, was largely frustrated as the result of High Court
decisions, which interpreted its language in the strictest
legal sense, etc., etc.
The expense incurred by the State owing to the
immense crop of Wages Boards that has sprung
up under the Wade Act is monstrous. The
Arbitration Act administration was notably
economical. The delay that litigants experi-
ence in bringing their disputes before the
new tribunal is, in all except special cases,
incomparably greater than it was of yore.
And so on. Dor lack of better the worker and
employer alike will continue increasingly to go to
the new Court with their grievances, since some
sort of arbitration is a recognised essential of
modern industrial life. That is not to say that the
Wade measure is a success. There are but two
types in the community that wholly approve it
so far as this paper can see— Wade, and the
mostly briefless barrister who gets the well-paid
job of Wages Board chairman.
♦-
Admiral Charles Beresford, speaking in Lon-
don on Saturday night last, said :
The Dominions could best help Britain, not by sending
£2,000,000 for battleships to serve in British waters, but
BY MAKING EFFORTS TO DEFEND THEMSELVES.
As Sydney Telegraph notes (24/5/'00)
It would be difficult to find a more distinguished
authority on Imperial Naval Defence than Lord Charles
Beresford.
Furthermore, in giving expression to the above
views, Beresford is but one of a large crowd of
naval experts. And so the Sydney daily is re-
luctantly impelled to readjust its former view that
the sea-power theories of Mahan are the only
ones worth mentioning. All the worn old state-
ments that the D.T’s. and Heralds and the B.
Smiths and Willy Kellys of this continent have
been unloosing during the past two years con-
cerning the vital need for the concentra-
tion of the entire naval strength of the
Empire in and about the North Sea, if Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and S’Africa are not to
be lost, are suffered to go by the board. It is
admitted that it is not only good patriotism, but
good tactics on Australia’s part to set about
defending itself. The only possible objection the
D.T. can now find to advance against the scheme
of an Australian navy is that it may be too ex-
pensive. But, after all, a paper that still yearns
to blew two millions sterling on a presentation
battleship that the British Government, the
British Admiralty and all the prominent naval
men who have mentioned the subject have com-
bined to say isn’t wanted, needn’t concern itself
with that side of the case much.
+
It is up to Australia to make haste with its idea
of compulsory military training, else the slow old
Ma country may be ahead of it after all. Last
week there was introduced into the House of
Lords a Bill providing for the compulsory mili-
tary training of all able-bodied male British
citizens between the ages of 18 and 30, and in- ,
stead of the document being thrown out at sight
as “un-British,” and the other remarks that
Willy Kelly and Bruce Smith are so fond of
using, it passed its first reading. Possibly it will
be thrown out; but it will come again, and it will
keep on coming till it passes. And let it be noted
that it isn’t a measure for the mere training of
school-kids like the one favored by Alfred
Deakin and Joseph Cook, but a scheme for the
conversion of grown men into soldiers. And there
is yet another matter in which Australia needs to
make haste unless it wishes to be forestalled,
Canada has flatly refused to have anything to do
with foolish schemes for presenting Britain with a
Dreadnought or any other vessel, and has decided
to create a fleet of its own for its own defence.
Australia took up the naval defence idea beforp
Canada did, but if it lingers too long on the way
listening to the assurances of weird Tories that
the thing is quite impossible and absurd and
unprecedented, the Kanuck fleet may be at sea
first.
• ♦-
British Minister Haldane’s recent retort to
some loony House of Commons member, who
wanted to know why the Asquith Government
wouldn’t order “the Flag” to flap over public
buildings on “ Empire Day,” touched Sydney
flag-flappers on the raw. Said Haldane, bitingly,
“ We don’t think that the Empire is held together
by flying flags ” ; and now some very loyal old
gentlemen are marvelling that a wrathful Heaven
didn’t smite him with boiled lightning. Canon
Boyce, who, it appears, is some sort of chief
flapper in the Sydney “Empire League,” was so
broken up that he wept bitterly in the daily
papers, and fasted for 40 days and 40 nights. His
wail was something to the effect that local loyalists


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPH Films
V FOR HIRERS and BUYERS.
The World’s Best Piotures and Machines at your
Door. We are Agents for the Greatest Machine and
Film Picture Makers of the World.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 George Street,
near G.P.0., Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 9S Queen St., Brisbane.
With international cricket raging in Eng-
land, and football magnetising its multitudes m
Australia, sport continues its triumphant career.
And, after all, sport is an essential form of that
energy which, wisely directed —by D.C.L. Whisk.'.
for instance—achieves all progress. D.C.L
sport, and progress are wisdom’s boon conr
panions-*
had tried their darnedest to get Britain to flap,
and that Britain wouldn’t flap worth ninepence.
According to Mr. Boyoe, the sorrowful story runs
thus: In April, 1903, the Sydney “Empire
League ” asked Prime Minister Barton to get the
Imperial Government to fix a flapping day.
Barton smiled courteously, but didn’t think
“the time was ripe.” A little later Mr. Boyce
wrote to Joseph Chamberlain on the same sub-
ject. Joseph replied that “the colonies” could
do what they liked, but he had work to do, and
couldn’t bother about children’s cubby-houses, or
something like that. In 1906 the indefatigable
Boyce spent 2Jd. in stamps on Lord Carring-
ton. Carrington yawned back that “England
was very Conservative, but he would lay the
proposal before the Government,” etc. Still
nothing happened. Next came the ' Imperial
Conference, and Mr. Boyce dashed off
some literature to Prime Minister Deakin.
Deakin replied very amiably indeed —but
still nothing flapped. Then as a last
resort the Sydney flag-flappers beseeched the
London drapers to get their Government to
make something happen. And at long last some-
thing did happen—a very busy, harassed, exas-
perated British Minister told the foolish flag-
flappers (in strict Parliamentary terms, of course)
to run away and play. It is a very sad story.
“ Belab” discusses land agents :
In his explanation re the relations between land agents
and the N.S.W. Lands Department, Minister Moore
betrays either a desire to mislead the public, or ignorance
of the affairs of his own office. He suggests that on only
one or two occasions have land agents been supplied with
information by the Department, and then under circum-
stances which permit of no reflection on the Government.
The truth is that the Lands Department is a sort of plea-
saunce for the pushful agent. As a result, the agent is
in a position to obtain information which is not available
to the public or the press. So well established is this fact
in one great land centre that press reporters in search of
information of interest and value to the agricultural
community do not waste time going the rounds of the
Lands Office officials; they get what they want from
the agents. The writer knows of a case in which a press-
man was enabled to make a “scoop ” of very important
lands intelligence, solely because he was on intimate
terms with a land-agent. From the Department the pub-
lic (or the press) could not have obtained the information
for at least a week later. The facts of the position have
long since been borne in upon the minds of the farmers
and settlers ; and as they find that the land-agents are
always able to get hold of information sooner than the
public, they have come to invest the disciples of Willis
with a mysterious power in relation to the Department.
They believe that if they want anvthing done, or
desire any information, they can only achieve their
object by engaging an agent. Indeed, some of the
more unintelligent of the agricultural class actually
imagine that in some occult fashion the agents
can control the ballot. This is not so incredible
as it might seem when it is remembered that
agents have the effrontery to send out letters
to land seekers, intimating that they are prepared to
obtain them a block for a stated sum, or asking what an
applicant will be prepared to give in the form of a special
fee in the event of success at the ballot. These practices
are unquestionably fostered by the Department, which
fails to keep the public posted up in the affairs of the
office, makes it tedious and vexatious for men who want
information to get it, and thus forces land seekers into
the hands of the agents. Ido not personally suggest that
there is any form of collusion between the’officers of the
Department and the agents ; though in the circumstances
that inference would be justifiable.
♦
N.S.W. Premier Wade and ex-ditto Carrutiiers,
talking on the subject of land, were among the
diverting features of the recent Sydney “ Liberal
and Deform” Conference. Both these eminent
statesmen assured the meeting, with tears in their
voices, that there was no need to worry about the
land ; there was plenty of land ; and all the talk
about “unsatisfied land-hunger” was “gross
exaggeration,” or something like that. Said
Carrtjthers : “ A belief exists, partly owing to
the rush to gamble in Crown lands, that there is
an enormous land-hunger.” Wade concurred, but
added hastily that, of course, that sort of thing
was over now, because his Government “liad
eliminated the gambling element ” from land
transactions. And on the very day that Wade
and Carrgthers were scoffing at the land-hunger
allegation, and skiting about “ the elimination of
the gambling element,” Wagga Land Board was
struggling with 211 applications for four newly-
available C.P. leases. Which wasn’t a good
thing for the aforesaid yarn of Wade and Car-
RCTHERS, because it argued that either (1) there is
a genuine demand for land, and Garruthers was
talking through his hat when he said there was
only “a rush to gamble in land or (2) there is
not a genuine demand for land, but only a “rush
to gamble,” etc., and Wade’s boast of having
“ eliminated the gambling element’’/was merely
a spasm of hot wind. And neither alternative is
creditable to Wade and Carruthers.
♦-
Addressing the recent annual conference of Aus-
tralian Butter Factory managers, Vic. chief veter-
inary officer Cameron got his wool off, and said he
was “ tired of reading the opinions of public men
about taxing the poor farmer. There are,” he said,
“8097 dairy farmers in my State, 2487 dairies,
and 45 factories ; and towards the administration
of the Dairy Supervision Act these 8097 farmers
pay £2211, the dairies pay £2376, and the factories
£79. The tax to the farmer is but 6d. per cow;
he pays but ss. 6d. for every £1 contributed by
the dairyman—yet he is eternally wailing about
his awful taxation.” As for inspection, Heaven
knows the said farmer needs a lot more than he
gets. Since the Act has been in operation 2460
cows have been temporarily segregated. Of these
613 were permanently condemned; of these 485
were post-mortemed; and of the 485, 226 were
found to be suffering from tuberculosis, 97 having
consumption of the udder. That explains in a
large measure why Melbourne’s fever hospital has
to carry on an average three times as many
patients as it was built to hold, and why the
Coroner sits about three times a day on the corpse
of the milk-fed baby. But what the tuberculosis
purveyor really needs is not taxation or inspec-
tion—a drastic course of hanging would be more
effective.
Tamworth (N.S.W.) is a busy town these days,
and the local papers slop over with the advts. of
agents who want to help the world to put in
applications for the 232 farms into which the
Government has cut up the resumed portion of
the Peel River Estate. In the way of the Govern-
ment subdivision of a compulsorily-resumed
squattage, it is the biggest thing by far ever seen
in Australia. Every farm is reckoned to be worth
approximately £2OOO, and to be capable of keep-
ing a family in something more than frugal com-
fort, even after the £lOO or thereabouts of annual
purchase money and interest is paid. Supposing
the farm is worth £2OOO exactly, it will take 37
annual payments of £lOO to come within cooee of
wiping out the debt (including interest),
and only a mere scrap will remain to
be paid in the 38th year. Practically it
means that a man with £lOO can borrow the
other £l9OO from the Government at 5 per cent.,
and after paying the interest for 37 years the
Government makes him a present of the farm.
If they wanted to, some of the people who say
that Private Enterprise can always do the thing
better might easily recall a time when the
farmer paid Private Enterprise 6 or 7 per cent,
for an indefinite period ; but when the farmer had
crept up on his crutches to pay the 37th, or even
the 47th, lot of interest, these people can’t remem-
ber a case in which Private Enterprise has told
the hayseed not to call any more, but for the
future to regard the farm as his own. Certainly
there is one point that the State is concerned
about, though Private Enterprise didn’t worry
about it a cent —the State says that the man whom
it helps on to a farm in this liberal fashion shall
stick on it and make his one and permanent home
there for 10 years at least. When Private Enter-
prise sold a farm it never cared whether the pur-
chaser built even a dog-kennel on it, or put so
much as a toe on the property.
The Vic. Water Commission has found that the
Deakin irrigation district land valuations are just
as dishonestly low as those of other and older dis-
tricts. Deakin district covers the area formerly
under the control of the United Ecliuca and
Waranga Water Trust, which had £5OOO of its
capital written off—that is, taken up by the State
as a whole—in ’99, but this piece of generosity has
in no way induced the land-owners to tax them-
selves and pay honestly for the water by which
they alone benefit. The present municipal valua-
tion is £49,645; the Commission finds that the
property is really worth £82,494, and if the rich
land-owners paid rates on that instead of on a
bogus valuation of about half the amount they
wouldn’t need to do the mendicant act at the
Treasury door and say, “Gib it tickpen ! ”
The Commission is going to levy rates on the
new valuation, and proposes to be stone deaf
to the anticipated laments of the “ poor farmers.”
It is working on its experience in the Long Lake
district, where the same wails smote its collective
ear. The answer to the outcry in that case was a
batch of summonses for £3OOO worth of overdue
rates ; but long before the cases came to court the
arrears had been reduced to £5OO, and even most
of that small sum was arranged for before the law
got its eye on the matter. All the Victorian land-
owner needs to make him a comparatively honest
citizen—as honest, say, as a brigand or a bush-
ranger—is an authority with a backbone and a
stiff-neck; an unmannerly, uncouth authority with
a deaf ear, a blind eye, and a healthy resolve to get
what is rightly its own, and to get it often.
—
Br The Bulletin’s Tame Scientist :
Notes from N.S.W. Agent-General Coohlan’s lecture on
“ Irrigation,” at the London Colonial Institute. There
are 500,000 square miles of Australia well or abundantly
watered; 400,000 square miles sufficiently watered ;
1,500,000 miles with not sufficient water for agriculture,
and 500,000 with practically no water at all. Much of
the insufficiently-watered country is verv fertile soil.
The arid and semi-arid lands are rich in plant food, and
capable of growing magnificent crops. Aridity even
causes fertility. The rain is apt to wash away valuable
rnd soluble constituents of the soil, including com-
pounds of the alkalis, potash, and soda. There is not
much Australian. irrigation by gravitation—that is,
by receiving the water frpm a natural higher
level. At Mildura and Renmark the water is pumped.
In India 33,000,000 acres are under irrigation ; in the
United States 7,600,000, in Egypt 6,000,000, and in Spain
2,600,000. Australia has only 200,000 irrigated acres, of
which 150,000 are in Victoria. When rivers are dammed
millions of acres in the arid region, now given over to
pasturage and dependent on a precarious rainfall, will
carry a large agricultural population. Drought will then
lose its terrors. All the rivers of the Murray system are
subject to great fluctuations, discharging from four
to 10 times as much in years of flood as in
drought times. The Murray, Murrumbidgee, Lach-
lan and Goulburn are usually running, and the
Snowy is always running in the ‘fiercest drought, being
fed by snowclad mountains. The Darling and tributaries
depend on monsoonal rains or on the catchment from low-
ranges. The Darling was reduced by the drought of
1901-2 to long chains of ponds. Yet those rivers have
enormous potentialities for irrigation. In the floods of
1890 the Darling was a moving inland sea, 60 miles wide.
One steamer went for hours of daylight out of sight of
land. Another delivered a cargo 25 miles inland. The
Murray is navigable in normal seasons for 1000 miles during
seven months of the year. Steamers frequently go 1000
miles up the Darling. They proceed several hundreds of
miles up the Murrumbidgee. Locking will make all these
rivers permanently navigable. All along the banks of the
Murray, Murrumbidgee, Darling and Lachlan are lakes,
filled from the overflow during floods. Nature here sug-
gests dams and reservoirs. There are 70 such lakes on
the Darling, and their capacity equals 225,000 acres of
water 10ft. deep. The Murray, Murrumbidgee and
Lachlan lakes cover 160,000 acres. The projected
storage at Trawool, on the Goulburn (Victoria), is
of a magnitude hitherto unexampled in the world.
An expenditure of £85,000 upon Lake Victoria, on the
Murray (N.S.W.), with a weir, would cause three-fifths as
much water to be held as in the great Assouan dam of
the Nile. The Barren Jack, or rather Boreen Yiack
(precipitous mountain), reservoir, on the Murrumbidgee,
will hold eleven-twelfths of the storage at Assouan. This
will enable a settlement of 60,000 more population. The
districts known to contain artesian water are 376,000
square miles in Queensland, 83,000 in N.S.W., and 110,000
in South Australia. The outlets of the vast subterranean
rivers are probably far below sea level at Carpentaria and
the Great Australian Bight. Over 2000 bores have been
put down, at a cost of £3,750,000. It is fancied that the
moon exercises some influence on the varying force of the
bore waters. Some rush-up in fountains others have to
be treated as wellSi
The A.N.A. competitions in Melbourne
and other parts unearthed the usual batch of
fancy names. Here are the Christian names of
some of the prize winners: Evelyn, Nessie,
Gladys, Maesmore, Lilian. Eileen, Myrtle, Beryl,
Doris and Evangeline. Never a Mary or a Jane
or a Bridget in any of the lists.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and Jill.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Rescue.”
Criterion “ Lucky Durham. ”
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Standard “ Out on the Castlereagh.”
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Town Hall Melba (June 1 and 5).
Glaciarium Ice Skating-.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “An Englishman’s Home.”
Theatre Royal “ Struck Oil.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Kino’s “The Man from Outback.”
Olympia West’s Pictures.
“ 10-2-4 ” at a show :
Observing that the S. M. Herald and Telegraph were
trouncing “The Unwritten Law’’ on its moral side, and
that letters were appearing in both sheets denouncing the
play and urging that it be forcibly stopped, I went to
the Queen’s Theatre (Sydney) on a recent night to see
what all the snuffling was about. Let me hasten to testify
that the moral effect of the production on me, person-
sonally, was all for good. So much so that towards the
middle of the third act I was impelled to turn to a com-
panion and swear that under no provocation would I ever
be either (1) a Sybarite or (2) aN. York millionaire. The
horrible possibilities of those careers are too great, and
they are not ended even with death. Indeed, as a vice-
prophylactic, I can imagine few dramatic works more
effective than “ The Unwritten Lavt'.” The leading male
characters bear a weird resemblance to clerics. Stanford
White, as he is here presented, looks, talks, and dresses
like a Yankee revivalist who has been on the secret drink
for three months. The Earl of Yarmouth is, to the life,
Gilbert’s “pale young curate” in an eyeglass. Harry
Thaw suggests an unfrocked priest. Abe Hummel is
exactly one’s conception of a Chief Rabbi, who, having
hypothecated the Ark of the Tabernacle in a moment of
weakness and financial stringency, has registered a vow
that he will not wash till he has expiated his offence. The
characters spout the jargon of the Little Bethel as to the
manner born. References to “ Gard ” are frequent, loud
and free. These are accompanied invariably by the impress-
ive uplifting of eyes and right hands that convention
demands in such cases. Stanford White admits brok-
enly that his life, for all its apparent glory,
is a wasted one. Existence, he says, has been
for him since ever he took to sybariting
“a veritable. Hell!” (Cheers from we of the
audience who, not being rich enough to sybarite, are
gratified to lqarn there is nothing in it.) Harry Thaw
(pace his trifling lapse with Evelyn in Act lll.—delicately
adumbrated on the programme in the words “ Domes-
ticity without Benefit of Clergy 7 ”) is a saint pure and
simple. His loathing of White’s conduct in producing a
girl from a pie is one of the finest things I have witnessed
outside a kirk. Barrister Delmas talks sermons as another
might talk racing. Attorney Jerome, when ruffling it
about Paris in his neat cloth cycling cap and mackintosh,
is not merely the man of fashion, but a clerk in holy
orders (thinly disguised) to boot. The very ignorance
displayed by these good folk of the procedure in a Court
of Law is creditably significant. It indicates the scant
acquaintance they have with the more sordid sides of
life. Thus in the Court of Crimes scene Delmas
hotly cross-examines his first three witnesses. Had he
any experience of naughty places like criminal courts he
would know that for a barrister to cross-examine his own
witness, without special permission, is inadmissible.
Thaw interrupts Jerome’s heated examination-in-chief of
Evelyn by a lengthy speech in protest from the dock, the
which is provocative of rounds of applause. Thaw’s
comic uncle draws aside the policeman who ushers him
into the box, and kisses him on the top of the head. This
unusual ceremony he repeats when his evidence is
finished. On being asked his religion he says that he has
none. “ Are y 7 ou not a Christian?” cries the Judge in
grieved tones. There is tense silence in the body of the
theatre, all right-thinkers feeling that a well-loved char-
acter is in danger of stultifying himself. However, the
uncle escapes from the impasse neatly. “ No,” he re-
plies, lightly 7, “ I’m a wowser.” (Applause and much en-
thusiasm.) What could be more kindly and humane
than the cross-examining methods of Jerome? With
blazing eyes he turns on the chief witness for the defence.
We nerve ourselves for something severe —for some query 7
that shall cast a blistering light on vice in high financial
places. “ And didger,” he demands of his victim, “didger, I
arsk, ever find White anything else but a thorough jolly 7
good feller?” It typifies the whole play, There is no
evil in it worth mentioning. Hideous revelations remain
always just round the corner, as it w 7 ere ; they 7 never
materialise. I look on “The Unwritten Law” as an
entertainment to which Little Amy who gave 3d. to the
Dreadnought Fund may escort her father, secure in the
knowledge that the aged reprobate won’t glean in its
pure atmosphere one solitary excuse for drunken or im-
moral conduct.
* * *
At Her Majesty’s “ Jack and Jill ” is due
to do its 62nd Sydney performance to-night
(Thursday), and when it is remarked that it is
still going strong, it is difficult to say anything
more in the way of eulogy.
* *- * *
Even as this paper goes to press, Miss
Tittell Brune is occupied farewelling to bevies, aye
platoons of lachrymose gy-urls at Sydney Royal.
Skating with a light hand over the thin eggshells
of a great and general sorrow, the writer hurries to
supply a stricken public with the mitigating
news that after Tittell comes Bland. On Wednes-
day Australia’s famous melodramatist will re-open
at the old stand with “The Great Rescue,” a
marrow-chiller of local manufacture. “Old faces
—new repertoire,” says Blandolt’s advt., and
what more can the most exigent demand ?
** * *
“ Lucky Durham ” is still at Sydney
Criterion. So are his gloves, his cheque-book, his
silk hat and his wronged mother. There are no
indications, so far, that the public is wearying
of any of these things. The plutocrat, his
delightful./iancec, his detractors, friends, and other
appurtenances and effects will be at the old
address till further notice —which is to say till
such time as the box-office receipts show signs of
falling off.
** * *
Plans for the Melba concerts are now open
at Paling’s. Sydney Town Hall will be the scene,
and the times of melody will be June 1 and 5.
At these two concerts the orchestra will use, for
the first time in Sydney, the new set of low-pitch
instruments which the great soprano presented to
the players. The remainder of the co. are baritone
Ranalow, Miss Una Bourne, Mr. J. Lemmone,
and accompanist Harold Whittle.
** * *
West’s Pictures are in their winter quarters
at Sydney Palace, and the Glaciarium is given up
to they who whirl around on real ice. The West
show is at present at its zenith, but, all the same,
it is capable of improvement. The spectacle of
the pirate Morgan hanging his brother buccaneer
is repulsive, not to say shocking. The buccaneer
is seen having his arms pinioned and the rope
adjusted round his neck. Then comes the break
in which the dummy is substituted for the real
man. The screen shows a moonlit sky, in which
all is peace, with the yardarm and shrouds
beautifully silhouetted against the maize-green
heaven. Just here the buccaneer is skied by the
neck. However, for this horror West makes
large atonement in his wonderful and exquisite
reproduction of “La Tosca,” as interpreted by
French artists. This film is worth going a thou-
sand miles to see. The figures are shown at least
twice life size, and the result is that, the facial
expression, which these French artists have re-
duced to a science, is seen to the fullest advan-
tage. The rest of the programme is good—in fact,
the programme is all good bar the hanging already
mentioned.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum Harry Lauder is still
in possession of the chromomegaphone. The
Bulletin hears, on medium authority, that the
Scotsman is to be seen here in the flesh in the
near future. At the Lyceum there is a dramatisa-
tion of “The Three Musketeers,” and the usual
variety of subjects and matter is reeled off. As
previously mentioned, the films at. the Lyceum—
with the exception of “ La Tosca,” are practically
the same as those at the rival show. This may be
accident, but it is bad management. It renders
a visit to the other house almost unnecessary.
** * *
Last week, in a printed interview, Mr.
Slapoffski wailed like a Jeremiah at the public
lack of appreciation of his concert-opera experi-
ment. “He didn’t feel inclined to work like a
nigger unless he saw something tangible in the
way of support. He didn’t mind the work, but
he wasn’t going to lose his money as well.” Well,
that’s the way The Bulletin feels about its
publishing business, and when it begins to
lose money at the rate the famous conductor
says he is doing, it will let its cellars
for mushroom growing and lease its roof garden
to a laundry. Grand opera, with acting, cos-
tuming, and scenery excised, is abjectly tame to
the majority, and the minority who do appreciate
it cannot make a payable Town Hall audience.
“Lucia” replaced “Aida” on Saturday night.
“ Aida,” it may be mentioned (or dragged in), was
sung in the Opera House at Messina the night
before the dawn of that city’s destruction. Mrs.
Slapoffski, as the unwilling bride of Larnmermoor,
was an unqualified success, but Mr. Andrew Black
had a heavy cold. Mr. Neil, the Edgar of the
experiment, had a sprained ankle and the pained
expression that accompanies such a bad support.
Conductor Slapoffski himself and the trombone
had a little difficulty ; but the bride and Mr.. Ornie
Darval were all-round blessings.
* * *
Chung Ling Soo has departed from Sydney
Tivoli, and although a performer of his tonnage
leaves a vacancy like a deserted wharf behind him,
the management has called up some excellent
reserves to fill the gap. Florence and Lillian, two
beauteous lady instrumentalists from London,
are the most striking of the newcomers. Their
taste in dressing is superb, and they are
the finest performers on the bugle this scribe
has heard so far; also the fair partner
draws sweeter strains from her violin than
some fiddlers who have arrived in these parts with
crack concert cos. Dale and O’Malley, patter
comedians, follow an old line of business ; but
they have humor, and their turn is crisp and smart.
Cissie Curlette revives memories of Grade
Grahame. Jay Ryan, a sweet singer lately with
the Ada Crossley co., contributes some Irish songs;
and Grahame and Dent do a quietly funny come-
dietta. With the exception of Baby Watson, the
rest of the show clamors for no special mention.
** * *
Evidence that “ An Englishman’s Hone ”
is not his castle will be submitted to public under-
standing at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) until further
notice. Public understanding grows less dense as
the play goes running on. In another week pro-
bably the fog will have quite lifted, and the object-
lesson enacted at Myrtle Villa will be plain to the
naked eye of the dullest intellect. Meanwhile, a
section of each audience in turn continues to
applaud vigorously when the fatuous Mr. Brown
expands his chest and proclaims himself “an
Englishman.” Also the guffaw of the thoughtless
is loud in the land when GeOf. Smith drops dead
off the table. A little allowance may be made for
this inopportune guffaw, considering that Geof.
would have been capable of pretending to fall
wounded had the enemy given him time to per-
petrate his little joke. Besides, this is perhaps
the first domestic drama on record wherein the
leading low comedian, or giddy goat, has received
his just due. The suddenness of the novelty is a
partial excuse for the laugh. For some other
phases of public stupidity there is no visible ex-
cuse. As, for instance, when Geof. Smith pro-
tests that if the British army invades the dominions
of the Empress of the North they will “play
the game ” and refrain from making war
on “harmless men,” and Prince Yoland
replies: “But, you see, in the country I come
from there are no harmless men,” or words
to that effect. Half of the moral of the story is
contained in Yoland’squiet business-like rejoinder.
Yet it gets no sign of recognition from the audi-
ence. The play bristles with pertinent sugges-
tions which pass unnoticed. Nobody laughs when
Lieut. Jackson rushes downstairs with the news
that the enemy has “‘kicked off’ over there,’’
whereby he expresses the inanity of a young man
who thinks in football idioms. Jackson’s super-
fluous announcement of the enemy’s noisy can-
nonade is the more painfully humorous because he
terms it a “kickoff,” but nobody laughs. The
satire in Adjutant Lindsay’s remarks is
mostly wasted. “ Who is this British bull-
dog?” he asks, referring to the rampage-
ous Mr. Brown. Nevertheless, the scornful
query doesn’t prevent the audience, or some of it,
from presently exulting over Brown’s lamentable
“blow” about his nationality. Melbourne, at
present, is not nearly educated up to the points of
Major Du Maurier’s play. It “ hits us where we
sleep,” says the advt. But there are some whose
slumber would survive a blow from a brick.
As regards the acting, Eardley Turner’s
Mr. Brown and Cyril Macltay’s cockney clerk
have improved on acquaintance, because the one
is louder than he was, and the other has toned
himself down. Dion Titheradge and Keppel
Stevenson retain the advantage of having
exactly the right voice, manner, and appear-
ance, which some of the other alleged
English citizens have not. Plimmer is a capital
Prince Yoland, and the rest of the invaders are
uniformly efficient. Also Miss Kelly deserves a
note of approval for her broken-up condition in
the third act, for which Miss Gleeson got credit
in last Bulletin. Miss Gleeson’s humorous lisp
is not heard in the third act. She is understood
to be suffering from “the funks.” The pom


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
little English spinster is hiding her terrors in the
copper of the washhouse, or weeping behind the
kitchen coal-scuttle. By the way, the rapid,
naughty little dramatic episode entitled “After
the Opera ” strikes one as being a rather inappro-
priate curtain-raiser to the tragedy of Myrtle
Villa. Something slow and gentle would have
been better, seeing that the succeeding drama is
so full of novelty and bustle. “ After the Opera ”
suggests a piece of preserved ginger with some
cayenne pepper in the middle of it. Or a blazing
fire at which the baldheads in the stalls may sit
and toast their feelings.
** * #
To-night (Thursday) brings the Nellie
Stewart season to a close at the Princess’s. Mel-
bourne has rolled up persistently to the revival of
the decorative young person from Old Drury, who
was a joy to King Charles and a scandal to Mrs.
Grundy. Mistress Gwynne is a strictly improper
heroine of drama. She neither repents of her
giddiness nor shows any consciousness of her
cause for penitence. She just basks in the majesty
that doth hedge a king, and shines by comparison
with her rivals. Years ago, a Bulletin critic
remarked that Nell Gwynne “fell upward,” and
that immortal phrase seems to fit the case more
closely than ever. The king of the present
revival is so exalted in his respectability that an
orange girl needs to soar high to win his regal
regard.
** * *
The horrors of “Derink,” as depicted in
the cinematograph version of* “ L’Assommoir,”
are appealing to the artistic sense of Victoria’s
capital at Olympia. This is the second week
of West’s drama in dumb show, or Sermon
on the Screen, and it happens to be “up
against” the mission of a Yankee revivalist
who is preaching salvation in the bar-rooms
of local pubs. The pictorial play at Olympia
makes it pretty evident that a pub is the very
worst place a Coupeau could go to in search of a
Yankee preacher. Every time the amiable plas-
terer gets among the bottles there is a he-devil or
she ditto at his elbow tempting him to put an
enemy into his mouth—and his mouth is ever •
ready to receive the foe. The acting of the com-
pany is powerful, and the cinematographing is
exceptionally good, especially in the scene where
Coqpeau attempts to swallow eight absinthes
whilst the clock strikes the hour. After earnest
consideration of the fall of Coupeau and the wiles
of Miss Virginie, the present moralist must pro-
test against the admission of Yankee revivalists to
any bar where ladies pass the bottle. The Oxford
and Cambridge boat race is strikingly filmed at
West’s ; also the thrilling adventures of Morgan
the Pirate on sea and cliff are a further revelation
of the fact that a cinematograph actor has often to
work rather heroically for his living.
** * *
At Melbourne King’s, “The Man from
Outback” pursues the track that is studded with
insanities as the dark is studded with stars. Roy
Redgrave continues to be the superlative hero of
the trouble, partly by the aristocracy of his virtue,
and partly by the nobility of his deeds. He is
still capturing the portly Duggan with an air of
intense nonchalance, and performing other wild
feats as if they were commonplaces. Mean-
time, Bert Bailey is no less of an attraction. He
is always in the van, because he never misses the
’bus. No villain dare be villainous, for fear of
Bailey arising to thwart him. No person dare
be stupid, for fear of Bailey being stupider.
Somehow, The Bulletin feels that there is some-
thing unique about Bailey. Never was there
another actor who did such silly things with such
consistent success.
** * *
The feature of Tait’s show at Melbourne
Glaciarium on Saturday was a dreamy,;symbolical
picture, entitled “The Hours.” Each period of
the day—sunrise, morning, afternoon, and so forth
—was represented by plump, draped damsels in
varying stages of activity. As each damsel wore
just enough clothing to keep folk interested, the
complete day was simply lovely, as well as
poetical. Other attractions on Saturday embraced
trips to Sardinia and the South of France; “Rita,
the Bohemian Girl,” etc. For the next many
weeks Tait’s Pictures will be moving from hall to
hall around Melbourne, whilst the Glaciarium re-
sumes its old character of “a home for falling
women.”
** * *
The Scarlet Troubadours come due at
Melbourne Athenaeum Hall next Saturday. Their
performance ranges from operatic travesties to
fancy dancing and lightning cartoons. Also there
is pathos on the bill-of-fare, and when pathos is
promised, the business of this sentimental journal
is to discover where it comes in. The Bulletin
is a thermometer on pathos. If its mercury
doesn’t fall to weeping point, the veracity of
Edward Branscombe’s advt. will be severely
questioned.
** * *
At the Opera House the Sisters Sprightly-
bounded into the bill on Saturday. Otherwise it
is the same bill as before, Douglass, the nimble
monologuist, and Woottwell, who is quaintly pre-
posterous, being foremost items, with the Laurels
and G. W. Hunter still going moderately strong.
#* * *
“ Struck Oil ” will get a hospitable recep-
tion at Melbourne Royal for another week or so.
If managerial arrangements permitted, the old-
fashioned attraction could hold the fort until
further notice. The generation that wasn’t born
or thought of when Maggie Moore first appeared
as Lizzie Stofel seems less distracted by her
figure than persuaded by her art, which has no
artificiality in it. The spirit of her 35-years-old
performance has lost none of its youthfulness, and
her presentation of the girlish character is
accepted as a triumph of mind over matter. Any-
way. Maggie Moore, as Lizzie Stofel, is a flat, or
rather a round contradiction of the libel that
Australians take a superficial view of stage affairs.
Apart from Roberts, as John Stofel, the sup-
porters of Maggie Moore are weak in many places,
and if she were judged by outside appearances,
the show would not be doing big business.
W- S. Gilbert—in his 73rd year—is at work on another
/airy opera, for which Edward German is to find the music.
German is regarded as the ohly possible satisfactory suc-
cessor to Arthur Sullivan in a collaboration with W.S.G.
Some of the music he composed for the “Tom Jones”
comiC opera, a couple of years ago, was said to be
“ equally attractive to the connoisseur and the man in
the street,” and the, part-writing and orchestration were
up to a standard half-way between light and “ grand ”
opera. Gilbert’s libretto will presumably be written in a
more serious vein than “ lolanthe,” and the veteran
doesn’t need to originate much of his plot. One, of his old
fairy comedies—“ The Wicked World”—has passed out of
recollection, and perhaps he will take some of his material
from that.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Sceneshifter ”: Chung- Ling Soo stirs up recollections
of previous magicians. The first of any note to visit Aus-
tralia was Professor Jacobs, who appeared in Sydney in
the early ’fifties. In 1856 Theo, the French magician,
created a sensation, and in 1858 the famous Professor
Anderson (the Whizzing Person of the North) drove large
audiences to drink. Dr. Lynn did curious proceedings at
the first Lyceum in Sydney in 1863 ; at that time he was
billed as “Washington Simmons, the American Frikell.”
The next con j uring visitor of note was Robert Heller, whose
performance created a sensation throughout Australasia.
As a magician, Heller was really great and past finding
out; as a pianist, he was brilliant; and as a comedian
and humorist, he was fairly amusing. Louis Hazelmayer
happened around in 1872 ; he became a big favorite, and
made much money with his magic. Then followed a
witch-woman or lady magician, Cora de Lamond, who
came from America in 1872. At the latter end of 1874,
Dr. Sylvester, “ The Fakir of Volu,’’ appeared. Tolmaqul
struck Australia in 1875. Kellar made a tour of
these parts in 1876, in conjunction with Ling Look,
Yamadeva, and Cunard, the “Royal Illusionists.”
“ Chevalier ” Thorn, a very clever performer, appeared in
1879. He was followed by Philip Anderson in 1881. In
1889 came Robert Jensen and Peron—both clever at the
art of making that which isn’t appear as that which is.
In 1892 Carl Hertz visited us for the first time, and in 1899
came Dante, who was a distant relation of “The Wizard
of the North.” Bertram, who chanced this way under
Robert Brough’s management in 1901, Thurston in 1906,
Lorenz (on the Rickards’ circuit) in 1907, and Maskelyne
and Devant in 1908 bring us up to the date of our present
visitor, the alleged Chinaman.
“Melb.”: West again scores with “ L’Assommoir.” It
lasts over half an hour, in two acts, with more than
30,000 photos. Reade, adapting the piece into “ Drink,”
greatly softened it. It would be a blank impossibility to
stage it with the actuality of the ’graph. But there is
no glimpse of the theatrical in West’s pictures of
“ L’Assommoir.” Never could the drama have been
acted in a Paris theatre with such appalling effect. It is
not done on a theatre stage. All seems to be real life.
You may have a dim idea that Coupeau has a wig on,
and that is all. Reade brought forward that amiable
character of Jean Gouget, in which Flemming was so
much at home. He put salve and healing balsam into
the play. Again, Reade’s Gervaise, acted here by Miss
Morris, is a nice innocent girl when Coupeau marries
her. In “ L’Assommoir ” she has been the mis-
tress of Lantier, and here is the sting. Vir-
ginie beguiles Lantier away because of her hatred
of Gervaise, whose marriage upsets Virginie’s plans.
This Virginie, merely a spiteful mischief-maker in Reade’s
version as acted by Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner, here bids
high for a job as the most wicked woman that ever trod
a stage, and may give points to Lucretia Borgia, while
Lady Macbeth is almost a relief. An English actress
would baulk at the part. You see her going up the
ladders on to a real scaffolding attached to a real building.
She unties ropes so that Coupeau may fall. The poor
fellow is waving his hand to his wife and little daughter,
and down he goes. Then the wife, child and the crowd
rush on. The fight between Gervaise and Virginie in the
wash-house was nothing on the stage to what it is here.
To see Virginie rushing out with her hair down is sufficient
earnest of what is to come.
“A. Zander ” : After seeing Chung Ling Soo I want to go
into partnership with him. Life is short, and I’m getting
old, and want to make my pile quickly; so I hereb} 7 ask
Chung to go with me into the opium trade. To a man
who can swallow wadding by the yard, and materialise
poultry and nice girls out of boiling water, it would be
dead easy to hide a dozen tins of the drug in his smile, or
mystify the Customs men to such an extent that they
would carry the stuff ashore in their coat-tails, and apolo-
gise to him for keeping the cab waiting, and give the
cabby a few bob in case he had some overtime coming.
As I don’t wish to take any of the kudos away from Chung,
I’m satisfied to hide my light under a bushel as a'sleep-
ing partner, and will be oontented with a half-share in the
profits.
A significant par. in the Melbourne papers t’other week :
“Miss Ada Crossley passed through Melbourne yesterday
on her return to Europe, after a very successful tour in
Australia under the direction of Mr. J. O. Williamson.
She has given 130 concerts since her arrival in Australia,/
13 of them being in Sydney.” The fact that Ada Crossley
gave only a few concerts in Melbourne this journey, and
‘■passed through’’the city without pausing to give a
second series, or even one farewell sing, speaks for itself.
She is Victorian by birth, and it was in Melbourne that
she got her cash testimonial and send-off concert before
leaving for Europe long years ago. Also it was
in Melbourne that she made her first appear-
ance on her first return to Australia, with a
diminished volume of voice but a greatly improved art of
Singing. This time she appeared in Sydney before proceed-
ing to Melbourne, and she brought a stronger concert co.
with her, including tenor Harrison, an artist of big
repute. Presumably it was the co., apart from herself,
that accounted for Ada Crossley’s 13 .concerts in Sydney.
In Melbourne, she was the all-important item, and inas-
much as her voice had “ gone to pieces ” and she couldn’t
use it as artistically as she did aforetime, her concerts
were a disappointment to the public. Eulogistic press
notices didn’t close people’s ears to the truth as regards
her altered-rendering of, say, “0 That We Two Were
Maying,” and her resorting to organ accompaniment to
cover up the shortcomings in her warble. Public
criticism was directed mainly to the Crossley singing, and
the public judged it correctly. If it improved during her
long tour, Melbourne wasn’t given a chance to note the
fact; hence the shrewd suspicion that there was no im-
provement to be noted.
“ Hamer ” : Maoriland, which used to be tlie gold-mine
of the travelling show, has to some extent lost its pres-
tige. Queensland is now the mummer’s Mecca, and con-
sequently Queensland is getting a trifle overdone with
raw drama. Still, Queensland hasn’t become so bad as
Maoriland did in the days when a despairful Parlia-
ment was driven to command that every visit-
ing manager should deposit with a potent local
authority a sum of money sufficient to provide re-
turn passages for his stranded mummers. (This regula-
tion, by the way, is dodged, because mummers travel
separately to M.L. and form the company there.) The
wise entrepreneur, of course, carefully avoids theatrical
Meccas. He selects a district that was one time a Mecca
but became worn out. That sort of place has had time to
recover ; but when the wise manager has scored there, it
becomes a Mecca once more, and unwise managers rush
to it three deep, till it is financially suffocated by the
burden of their numbers.
THE PAGE THAT KILLS.
FIRST OAT : "Be cripes, if the pace don’t break
’im up, or ’e don’t get giddy an’ fall orf,
’e’ll liek that old Dreadnought mail clean
outer sight.”
SECOND OAT : "I cannot look upon so stirring a
sight without emotion, and the pace makes
my head swim. It’s a wonder they don’t
both fall off.”
“ Snell ” : “ After the Opera,” the little tragedy that
precedes “Ati Englishman’s Home,” offers points for
debate re sex equality. Here Eve is presented as a lady
who still has apples to give away. She presses the vege-
table on Captain Gordon Follett, and, after many protes-
tations and a fair fight against odds, the soldier capitu-
lates and agrees to see Lady Lulu later, when Lord Lulu
has vacated the premises. Lulu’s designs are frustrated
by a Noise. She and the Captain, who still resists and
still denies, think the Noise represents the hoofs of a hus-
band in the hall. The Captain takes precipitate flight
over a balcony, and the burglar enters, strangles Lulu
and robs the remains. Presently Follett is in the position
of having to explain to the widower over the body of Lulu
how he came to be on in that act. He takes all the
blame—he was the would-be seducer, the villain, the re-
pulsed Lothario. That is what is expected of him, but
under conditions of sex equality, with woman where she
wants to be as man’s peer, will the He still be expected to
have the bill made out in his name, and always sent
in to him, or will the She step up and pay her score like
a man? If moral equality is the result of sexual eman-
cipation, what a blow to sentimental literature, dramatic
and domestic ! Of course, the man is supposed to have
compensations, inasmuch as society (in theory at least)
throws a softer brick at him when he is found out than it
does at the woman. It is supposed to boil its brick
before throwing it at the man, and to throw a raw brick
at the woman. Hence the query of an English
barrister :
Ought the man to be cut as well as the lady?
When they’ve met Justice Butt, ought the man to be
cut?
When they’ve stuck in a rut down a lane that is shady
Ought the man to be cut as well as the lady?
But, after all, society nowadays seems to have almost
given up cutting either of them.
“Vulcan”; Noo Yark (U.S.) State Legislature has
about plumbed the depths of fool “ moral ” legislation.
The latest local snuffle-ism is the registration of stage-
door callers. All baldheads, dudes, and other sinners
who send stage-door missives to short-skirted divinities
are required to give their names and addresses, and to
state whether they are married or single. If the offender
is single he is offered a homily, or tract, or something ; if
he is married, the letter he wrote to the leggy angel is to
be preserved and forwarded to the missus. What hap-
pens to the large order of she-worshippers of the he-
beauty mummer doesn’t transpire.
“Ricardo”: Apropos of Mrs. Melba’s latest discovery
of “ the finest voice I have ever heard.” A cynic has
been suggesting a society of vocalists who have not yet
been patted by the all-approving Queen of Song. The
bottom dropped out of the scheme when it was dis-
covered that there wouldn’t be enough members to bring
the union under the Arbitration Act.
Laurence Dunbar, Billanderson’s long, lean villain, has
reduced the art of melodramatic wickedness to a well
thought out series of gestures. Dunbar’s characters
might as well be dumb ; he can convey the whole story
with floating arms and fluent poses. By the way, after
refusing professionally to “ marry the girl ” for years and
years, he was privately led to the altar in Melbourne, the
other day. Miss Lena Langridge was his leading lady.
The recent winter boom of roller-skating in Britain
seems to have centred in the vast London Olympia build-
ing. The asphalt rink at Olympia had an average daily
attendance of 30,000, mostly skaters, so the shareholders
in that costly show place are presumably getting a
little of their coin back. When the rinking season was
closed the building was utilised as a flying space for air-
ships, the prime attraction being a mammoth craft fitted
with accommodation for passengers, dogs, sledges, and
provisions. To carry a full load of people and things, in-
cluding the necessary engine and petrol tank, the airship
has a gas envelope measuring 200 ft. x 50ft.
“D.”: European newspapers which describe the re-
ception of “An Englishman’s Home” in Berlin, goto
show the folly of those who represent the Teuton as han-
kering to get at the throat of his British neighbor. The
play as produced in Germany ends with the invading
force in triumphant possession of Brown’s villa. The
insane entry of the victorious volunteers is omitted.
From start to finish the national and military pride of Ger-
man}'is flattered to the top of its bent. Yet the Berlin
correspondent of London Daily Mail writes (14/4/’09):
“ As the second act ” (the act in which the military com-
petency of the invaders is most strongly insisted on)
“progressed, the noises, principally from the upper sec-
tions of the theatre, became louder, and at last broke
out in a sustained chorus of vigorous booing. . . .
The invaders’ victory, like the inefficiency of the
English soldiers, was greeted with ironic laughter.”
The Kaiser, who, like all geniuses, has flashes of
common-sense now and then, summed up, for the benefit
of the Bokrsbn Courier, the reason why German audi-
ences had been, as he put it, “ repelled ” by Du Maurier’s
drama as follows :—“ It was,” he said, “in no way good
for the relations of nations for them to be brought into
political opposition to each other on the stage. ‘An Eng-
lishman’s Home ’ was a piece written for a certain group
of Englishmen. Consequently it was impossible inGerman v
to admire the play, and in Berlin it met with a rebuff,”
A sure line may be got as to the sentiments of a big
section of any modern European nation towards a rival
nation by the way it receives allusions disparaging or
otherwise to that rival on the stage. The fact that even
the German who visits the playhouse (that is to say, the
most exuberant sort of German)doesn’t want to be glorified
at the expense of the Briton, or to maffick at the spec-
tacle of the Kaiser’s army downing that of Ed. VII., is a
powerful indication that the nation at large views any
idea of invading the United Kingdom and tearing it to
pieces with ahborrence, not to say contempt.
“Melb.” : One half of the Miss Gushingtons who have
hitherto ruled the drama here have been converted by
dear Charley Alexander. The other half came away from
the premiere of “An Englishman’s Home” declaring
that it was the rottenest piece ever staged. No hugging,
no kissing, no anything. When Cyril Mackay called
Kolker a mug, these gushing daughters of nature wanted
to know why he didn’t mug - . More rational is it to ask
why the Germans were not turned into Japs, and why
they didn’t come to an Australian’s Home at Darling
Point or St. Kilda. Boucicault changed his “ Streets of
New York ”to “ Streets of London.” Mackay, as Smith,
gets all the honors of the first two acts. Instead of being
a poltroon, as we expected, he is a real plucked one, and
game to the last. With the German Army upon him,
he reminds me of a bull-ant which sat on its
haunches and defied me in the Gippsland forest.
Like the sarcasm involved with “ Britannia Rules the
Waves” in the overture, Du Maurier’s intention does not
quite come out in the acting. It is like the case of the feeble
heroes of Scott and Dickens, when eccentric accessories
obtain all the glory. Smith was meant to be scorned, but
the audience exults over him. Also it obstinately refuses
to accept Du Maurier’s opinion of Brown as* a fool.
Maybe no actor could convey it. The people applauded
his bravery to the echo. When he remained alone in his
bombarded house and fought the Germans single-handed,
the only disappointment was that he did not swab the
stage with them, a la Roy Redgrave in “ The Man from
Outback.” What a lovely, claptrap finish. How Du
Maurier must have protested against it. Like the happy
ending of “ The Octoroon,” forced upon its author by the
London public, or the publishers’ ending of “ The Light
that Failed.” There ought to be another Jessie Brown
with “ Dinna ye hear it? It’s the Slogan ! ”
“ Parisine ” : A gracious notice Of Ooquelin appears in
the Fortnightly. Coquelin was a bright honor to his
profession in every respect. He had none of Irving’s mys-
tery or seclusion. But then he had had none of Irving’s
hardships to blight him. Mrs. Orowe (Miss Bateman)
says that even up to 1871 Irving was a moody, disap-
pointed sort of man. Coquelin swam in glory from his
18th year. Yet he was never spoilt. Not only did he
uphold the dignity of the stage, but he had a lofty ideal
of the profession. It is truly grievous to find Macready
writing about “mv miserable profession.” Such would
be Ooppin’s view, also. Coquelin’s artistic soul evinced
itself most beautifully in that Home for Retired Actors
and Actresses, which he supported at Pont aux Dames.
He lived there himself, just to show all that he meant by
the word “artiste.” The younger Coquelin called his
brother “Le grand tartiste,” because they had sprung
from the bakery. Coquelin took the utmost pains to
make his old comrades happy in the Home. He kept them
goingwith dramatic performances amongst themselves.
A veteran would say, with pride, “Ah, the governor
has been giving us a dreadfully hard time to-day at re-
hearsal ! ” He did it through kindness. Good old
Mademoiselle Delapidbe and good old Monsieur Crusty
were never to feel that their performances didn’t
signify. That was Coquelin’s idea of maintaining
the soul of an artist. Lifting his dead master
from the floor, Gillett, Coquelin’s English valet, ex-
claimed, “Why, he has a smile on his face!”
The Government wanted to give him the red ribbon of the
Legion d’Honneur. Said he : “ What do I want with a
ribbon? Everybody knows my nose.” The great trouble
of his life was finding a nose for Cyrano de Bergerac.
About a hundred were tried, all shapes and materials.
At last Gillett fixed on the right one. Coquelin was a
more rapid study than any other great actor on record,
except Brooke. Parallel with him, rapid studies in Aus-
tralia have been Brough and Charles Hall. Bad memories,
chiefly through stage fright, afflict many, if not most
leading actors. What Beerbohm-Tree talks on a first
night nobody knows. Same with Arthur Roberts. The
saying was that Brooke never really acquired any part at
all. He was satisfied with his first gloze. Coquelin was
so perfect in 53 leading parts that experimentalists found
they could not puzzle him with any cue.
The Old Soldier speaks :
The Wassiamull Assomull babu, whose letter praying-
tor advice and help the S. M. Herald (13/5/’O9) stars under
the heading- “The Stranger Within Our Gates,” fails to
win my sympathy. The entire substance of his complaint
is that he cannot transport the whole social economy of
his native land to Australia. There are plenty of Euro-
peans who would be both able and willing to manage his
correspondence with Calcutta or Bombay. I have known
several who were quite competent to unravel the falsified
accounts of native traders, but they would have to be
paid for their work, and Wassiamull would doubtless
rather die than pay their figure. His moan about his
“ religion ” and the worry it causes him makes me smile.
It necessitates, he says, “his countrymen preparing
his food.” It is the old nonsense of 60 years ago
about the religious sanction of caste. It is very doubt-
ful whether the Hindu has any religion, in the
European sense, at all. So long as he pays his
temple-dues, and carries out his caste-duties, he
can believe what he likes. It has been settled by a care-
ful study of the great body of Hindu law, which goes
under the name of Menu, that caste is apart from reli-
gion. Furthermore, Wassiamull is disingenuous. Would
it do for any of his countrymen to prepare his food—a
sweeper, for instance, a tanner, or a weaver? Not much.
The suggestion would give him a fit, because these three
are the lowest of Hindu castes, and their touch would be
defilement to even a Jat, the highest caste that allows its
widows to marry. The truth is, Wassiamull’s trouble goes
deeper than he shows. It is not only the single corre-
sponding clerk to write the Indian letters, and the cook
to prepare his food, that he needs. He requires also a
complete office staff of cheap Bengali babus and a whole
retinue of house servants, for the cook, who would of
course be a high Brahmin (all “Hindu gentlemen,”
even if, like Sindia and Holkar, they are only shepherds
by caste, must have Brahmin cooks), would do nothing
but cook, and would need two or three to wait on him.
There would have to be a man to sweep, another to wait
at table, another to fold and brush the clothes, and one
to do the washing. That is where the shoe pinches the
people in Natal. When once you open the'door to our
Hindu fellow-subject, he comes, not singly, but with
housefuls of servants, all his clerks and workmen, and
settles, not singly, but in colonies, reproducing the
social order of his native country, which may be tolerable
to him, but. is intolerable to Europeans. The only pos-
sible remedy, on Wassiamull’s own showing, is exclusion.
EMPIRE DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Probably every child who takes part in to-day’s demon-
stration will realise the precise place of Empire Day
among' our institutions as well as Mr. Asquith realises
it.— S. M. Herald (2U161’09).
Hark 1 ’tis dear Granny’s voice—
Hear what she has to say :
“ Children, rejoice—rejoice !
This is our Empire Day ! ”
This is the day we fling
Flags to the rain or fog.
This is the day we bring
Extra bones to the dog !
This is the day we wear
Badges and tons of “ side ”
This is the day we hear
Bruce Smith orate with pride ?
This is the day we read
All about Edward Seven ;
This is the day we need
Just to make earth a heaven !
This is the day the land
Rouses itself to cheer ;
This is the day the band
(German) enjoys its beer !
This is the day the schools
Rush to the Cricket Ground,
Heedless of mud and pools,
Lavishly' spread around.
This is the day of fame
Aldermen celebrate ;
This is the day they name
Tree-guard and market-gate !
This is the day the stone
Sinks in its mortar-bed,
While the Mayor makes his moan
How our grand-uncles bled !
This is the day of days
For froth, and beer, and flam,
And shoddy patriots blaze
And —no one cares a dam !
This is the day they skite —
Filling the folk with “kid,”
Bleating with all their might
About what dead men did !
But not a worm of them
Rises to public view,
Just to explain to us
What he's prepared to do t
No ! Not a single fly,
Beetle, or gnat, or nit,
Gets up to say he’ll die
Or do his little bit!
No caterpillar there
Whom God allows to live
Gets up to tell or swear
What he will do or give !
Dead men have done their share—
Long have they passed away !
We shirk that you may bear—
Three cheers for Empire Day !
N.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.
MORE AND MOORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis now some thirty years ago
Since I beheld, with cheers,
Miss Maggie Moore. ’Twas in the show
In which she now appears.
I’ve seen Miss Maggie Moore since then
More often than you’d guess,
And hope the day is coming when
I’ll see Miss Maggie less.
VICTORIA.
S. S.


Wm
mmm
?£m.
*
f&am
Australia’s Wool
FOR
Australians’ Rugs.
The D..T. Guinea Rug, as illustrated, is made in
Australia from pure Australian Wool. It measures
COin. x 72in., and weighs s|lb. It is closely woven
and very soft and warm. When travelling it greatly
adds toone’s comfort, and during the winter it makes
an excellent bed covering. The patterns, which in-
clude Tartan Plaids, Stripes and Checks, are rever-
sible, so that the rug is never “ wrong side out. : ’
PRICE - -21 s.
We send this rug carriage paid to any part of the
Commonwealth. Should it on receipt not prove
entirely satisfactory, return it, and your purchase
money will be refunded, •
DAVID JONES Ltd
SYDNEY.
A GOOD CAMERA
1
The
VICTOR
No.
Fitted with Rapid Rectilinear Lens
and Improved Model Shutter.
£.5151-
Compact and Beautif" Fitted,
of the Best British M '.He.
The “VICTOR” No. 4 is an deal Hand
Camera, tor it is ALWAYS dEADY, and
the shape of picture is useful for Group.
Portraits, Views, etc.
The Lens is Excellent, and we thoroughly
recommend this Camera.
The Magazine carries 12 Plates, 5x4.
DON’T FORGET! WE STOCK EVERYTHING REQUIRED BY PHOTOGRAPHERS.
Send for Free Specimen Copy of Thb Australian Photographic Journal, Beautifully Illustrated.
HARRINGTONS LTD.
PHOTO, MATERIAL and CAMERA MERCHANTS,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
179 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
93 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
“ Hassan ” : The lady missioners belong-
ing to the Chaptnan-Alexander Gospel Company
had an evening in “ Bilking Square,” Lilly Buk-
stleet, Melbourne, last week. All the Flossies
who had not more lucrative business on hand
attended for the sake of ’the bun and tea dis-
pensed by the Methodist mission after the per-
formance. Mrs. Asher and Mrs. Alexander
talked to the collective frailty about its mother
and the ad vantages of a pure life, and asked the
meeting to come to the Lord. It sobbed and was
converted ; and the Lord got a bargain lot dirt
cheap. After the buns and tea Flossie dried her
eyes and went back to the old street corner on the
.same old business.
ANCIENT ROMAN DREADNOUGHT FUSS.
CAESAR : “ Whose funeral was that?”
BRUTUS : “ Oh, we were getting tip a patriotic
movement to present a tear galley to Pompey,
and that fellow interrupted the meeting.”
Apparently out of an enthusiastic desire to
suppress Tattersall’s sweeps, the Postmaster-
General has gazetted a list of 21 persons and firms
—presumably agents for the gamble—whose letters
are not to bedeli vered i* future. They are all located
in Tasmania, and they include a member of the
Tasmanian Upper House, a big brewery co., and
the trustees of the late George Adams. Nowa-
days, to have your letters stopped is about equiva-
lent to being excommunicated in Europe during
the Middle Ages, or declared a leper in old Pales-
tine. The person who is thus gazetted becomes a
being apart. He is cut off from the world. He
ceases to get his newspapers except such as are
delivered by hand, liis best girl’s communications,
his cheques and remittances, invitations, bills,
duns and racing tips. His wife and family and
mother-in-law and uncle may die, and his house
fall down, and his horse break its neck, yet he
doesn’t hear of these things. He doesn’t get
his income-tax paper or rent receipt or the
news that he has come into a fortune. The
orders for 1000 tons of fencing-wire and 27,000
dozen pairs of boots, and all the other orders stop
short just as if he were dead. The circular asking
him for a Dreadnought subscription is waylaid
and sandbagged, the same as Nicholas Willis, and
never reaches him. Great silences and shadows
gather round him. Writing becomes of no value
to him, for it is no use writing if nobody replies.
He becomes a cave-dweller or a missing link or an
aboriginal. In fact, he becomes something like
the Invisible Man who also didn’t get his mail
regularly, and whose movements were only noticed
when someone saw a quantity of partly-digested
bread and cheese moving along about 4ft. above
the ground. For the man whose letters are in-
curably stopped there seems to be only one hope
or remedy; he can notify his friends that in
future he will be called Smith, and that he has re-
moved to Boggabri (N.S.W.); and,in tliat humble
place and under that humble ordinary name he can
repent, and start afresh with a firm resolve to
walk a chalk line for evermore. As a broad hint
to walk a chalk line and to cease acting as agent
for any sweep or other unlawful device, the
stoppage of letters seems about the most effective
idea that could be devised. Certain banks, by
the way, should be glad that they are not on the
prohibited list.
* * * *
Yea, the tiny Victorian village that was
promised submersion under the gigantic Trawool
water scheme, now abandoned, lias a grievance.
When it was first menaced with destruction, it
grew dolorous. People got up in haste to perish, and
started out for other parts. Now Yea learns that
its perish was superfluous, and that it is to go on
existing, and it is wildly asking for compensation.
Yea wants to be refunded for its losses in deciding
to die as much as it could before death really
supervened. Its hill probably reads : “To being
Partly Dead by Mistake, £100.”
Detective Macmanamnmnnmy, having re-
turned to Melbourne with the extradited bride-
groom, Duncan Mclntyre Johnstone, will submit
a report to Tommy O’Callaghan concerning the
use of dogs in European police work. Macman-
ammnmnnny evidently recognises that aforce which
failed to discover the Bauer murderer, the Rush-
worth murderer, and almost all the other mur-
derers—which, in fact, never seems to discover
any murderer unless it meets him walking down
Collins-street with the victim’s severed head in
his hand —requires the aid of some more intelligent
animal than it has been employing hitherto. It
is alleged that the dogs that the great ’tec
proposes to recommend are bred from Dog-
in-the-Manger out of Advertisement. The rest
of the muster of defectives have been able to get
their names into the paper while The Master has
been absent, and his holiday has been theirs also.
Boss O’Callaghan is said to look with a cold eye
upon the propdsal to employ hounds. Perhaps
he fears that they may compare too favorably
with the present members of the Criminal Inves-
tigation Branch.
Some ass revived the Tom Collins joke in
Dunedin (M.L.), and fell in. Getting hold of half a
dozen hefty acquaintances,
he informed them that Tom
had said horrible things
about their characters, and
had also impugned the re-'
spectability of their par-
ents. They shouted for
the address of Tom Col-
lins, and were vaguely in-
formed that lie had an
office in Princes-street.
Down Princes-street they
raged, and, as good luck
would have it, found the
notice, “T. Collins,
General Agent,’’ adorning
a brass plate. When the
scrap was over, and
Thomas lay prone with the
wrecks of his enemies
around him, and the ruin
of a bicycle pump in bis
fist, and the police and
press were making notes
and inquiries, the assail-
ants explained. Now the
practical joker is scurrying
around trying to raise
money in a falling market in order to compromise
the action for damages that Thomas has insti-
tuted, and to smooth over the six different troubles
that his six friends propose making.
GIRL (to unsuccessful suitor): “ You are not the first bank clerk who has proposed tome. The
other one died."
SUITOR (sarcastically): “A broken heart, I suppose.”
GIRL: “No —trying to live on his screw.”
The kauri gum industry of Maoriland is
on its last legs, and the firms that dealt in gum
are lighting out for China. There a substitute
has been discovered in the shape of the nuts of
the tungshu tree, the oil of which the Chinese
and Japs, have’used from the date of that oldest
lunatic, time out of mind, for making the lacqers
for which they are famous. Originally there
were three layers of kauri gum. Two have been
entirely rooted out, and the third is being rapidly
removed by cheap Austrians. Roughly, Maori-
land has exported about £7,000,000 worth of kauri
gum to Britain and the United States, entirely in
the raw state ; and has bought back much of the
oil, varnishes, cigar holders, etc., into which it
was manufactured —bought them back with money
borrowed in Britain. The gum could have been
turned into varnish in Maoriland, and as gum
varnish has always held pride of place all over
the world, it would have been a valuable asset.
But the Maorilander was content to let it go
away and buy back what he required in its manu-
factured state. So when the last Austrian has
drawn his savings and disappeared over the
horizon, all Maoriland will have to show for its
eight or nine millions’ worth of exported gum will
be a desolated surface where the goods were
rooted out, and a bill for interest on the money
that was borrowed on the strength of it.
* * * *
Evangelist Chapman, the new ally of the
melodious Alexander, pitches some beautiful melo-
dramatic yarns to his. hysterical audiences.
T’other day, in telling them to be sure their sin
would find them out, he dragged in a narrative of
a Dreadful Wedding :
A bride, young and beautiful, with face wreathed with
smiles, looking the queen she was, had just married a
Great Banker in a New England city. As the newly-made
husband and wife were walking down the aisle to the
strains of the Wedding March, there suddenly stepped
out from a pew a woman in black, who threw back her
veil. The banker raised his head, and said “My God !
Is this you ? ” The woman replied, “ I have brought you
yourdittle boy ; I have kept him for four years. You
can keep him now.” The bride fainted, the Wedding-
March was hushed, the people filed out of the pews. The
man stayed alone in the church with the little boy cling-
ing to his leg and crying tor his mother.
This ridiculously Andersonian fiction reminds one
of how Mrs. Pipehin tried to curdle the blood of
little Paul Dombey with a lurid tale of the fate
that befell another little boy who asked questions.
Paul Dornbev looked gravely at the old girl and
said, “I don’t believe that story.” He was of an
inquiring turn of mind, and all the weak points in
Mrs. Pipchin’s bellowdramatic yarn struck his
young understanding. If Evangelist Chapman’s
disciples had inquiring minds they wouldn’t
believe bis story of the banker and the. apparition
in black. But if they do believe it, they may as
well weep over the awful worldly fact that the
fainted bride would doubtless recover pretty
quickly from her shock. If the extraordinary
woman in black, who took the gentleman by
unaccountable surprise, had dumped a pair of
twins on the altar steps before the marriage cere-
mony, the beautiful, blushing girl wouldn’t have
forgotten that even a Little Banker can cover a
multitude of pre-marital sins. The capacity of a
Great Banker in that way is simply enormous.
THE IMPARTIALITY OF JAH AND HUNG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dapto, Wednesday.—A united religious service was
held in the Agricultural Hall last night, when prayers
were offered for rain. Although there was not a cloud in
the sky when the meeting started, before some farmers
reached their homes rain began to fall, and showers con-
tinued all night arid to-day.—S. M. H krald (20/5/’O9).
The new joss-house is dedicated to Hung-Seung, the
god of the weather. The power of the god to answer the
prayers of believers was solemnly averred by several
market gardeners yesterday, who were present at the
opening ceremony. Some days ago they had prayed to
Hung-Seung for rain, and rain had come that day in
abundance.— Sydney Telegraph, same date.
“ The efficacy of prayer,”
Who doubts it after that ?
A deluge from the air
Will knock the doubter flat!
My brethren, have but faith—
You’ll never ask in vain !
Heed what the Scripture saith,
And pray for solid gain.
Do not be brief ; appeal
For cash —be not abrupt;
Ask fir the goods thieves steal
And moth and dust corrupt.
Pray fervently for fish,
That you catch ten —not two ;
Express a pious wish —-
That’s all you have to do !
The power of prayer is great
No matter what the tongue ;
It’s answered while you wait
By either Jah or Hung !
The only drawback is
That Hung may hear the loud
Appeals (and do the biz.)
Of our white Christian crowd !
’Twould be a grave mistake
If toe should pray for beer,
Tobacco, pork or cake,
Or some good Christian cheer,
And rise with reverent head,
Expectantly and see
A ton of rice, instead,
Or pug-dog fricassee !
Still, the glad facts remain—
As I with joy restate—
That prayers for things and rain
Are answered while you wait.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
THE GOOD BAGMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Postmaster-General (Mr. Thomas) said that the
commercial travellers would feel it very keenly if any of
their clubs or officers had been associated with the
“ Tattersall ” transactions. —Melbourne Argos.
’Twas a sporty little island, where a sporty chap could
still
Send his dollar in defiance of “ the people’s written will
So it gathered in the dollars while the public conscience
slept,
But the Good Commercial Traveller bowed down his head
and wept.
The Good Commercial Traveller he goes by town and bush,
And never curses at his God above a busted flush ;
From Cooktown round to Bunbury—whatever road he’s
on —
You will mostly find him reading from the Gospel of St.
John.
The Good Commercial Traveller, he travels fast and far,
And looks askance upon the man who smokes a big cigar.
You may find him in refreshment rooms, with others of
his ilk,
At the corner of the counter where they sell the buns and
milk.
The Good Commercial Traveller, he journeys east and
west,
With conscience clear that does not fear the hardest
moral test;
But when stern Josiah Thomas all his private letters kept,
The Good Commercial Traveller bowed down his head
and wept.
VICTORIA.
L. K. BRENT.


How to get Rich.
Take a quantity of silica costing one-
ffourth the price of oil; mix it with oil,
and sell the compound to the public at
he price of pure oil. It is such a com-
pound the public get when they buy
■common soaps. In Sunlight Soap the
public buy a pure and well-made soap.
Sunlight Soap reduces expense by pro-
longing the life of the articles washed with
it, which is much more profitable to the
public than common soaps, which soon re-
duce the linen to holes.
Though one man swears by lemonade,
When it is fifteen in the shade,
Another may prefer his beer,
And think the first man’s taste is queer.
Though one may stick to water pure,
Another patronise the brewer,
Both will, of course, perforce endorse
The worth of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is un'der Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
A
Smart, Serviceable Overcoat
WE save particular consideration to the exclusiveness of
material for these Overcoats, and the correctness of
weight to the climate. We recommend these garments
with every confidence to post purchasers. The Overcoat has
lull skirt and centre seam at back, patch pockets, gauntlet or
strap, cuffs, perfectly-fitting shoulders, and hand-stiffened
fronts, that retain their shape to the last. The style is of a
nigh character, and, in ordering by mail, we promise full
satisfaction, for we will speedily exchange to meet your
individual wishes.
In Dark Grey Herringbone Tweed, with
faint Blue Stripe, or Olive Green, with
faint Green Stripe
Postage 1/6 extra.
52/6
Give Chest and Waist Measurements when Ordering.
Peapes (&L Co. Ltd.
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'
I
I
The Broken Hill miners’ strike, or lock-
out, or whatever it was, came to an inglorious
end. The last few days of it were largely filled
with angry men boo-hooing at Tom Mann and
Rosser and other heroes of a month ago. It was
the old story. In the struggle to keep the men
believing that they were bound to win—in fact, that
they were winning all the time—those who did the
talking had to tell most ridiculous taradiddles.
If they hadn’t “ kept their peckers up,” the weak-
est in the crowd would have crept in to work, and
that was what had to be battled against. Then
Mann and Rosser and a few others went to Port
Pirie, where the smelting and refining is done,
and found out that the men couldn’t be held any
longer even with taradiddles ; so, to avoid a rout,
they counselled an orderly return to work. After
the “Fight to the Death” hifalutin that the
same men had talked, this advice fell like
two tons of ice on the Broken Hill men; and
Tom Mann’s pretty picture was hauled down
from the vestibule of the Trades Hall, and the
pickets refused to fall in behind Rosser. But in
this matter, anyway, Mann and Rosser deserve
some sympathy. Nine cases out of ten, speeches
delivered to men on strike can’t be relied on ;
in fact, the whole essence of strike-winning is to
keep the crowd ignorant of its own weakness.
Sometimes it comes off; but when it doesn’t, and
A FRIEND OF LABOR.
The sole idea which actuated the federation was to do
its best in the interests of Labor from the point of view
of the employer.— Chairman, Employers’ Federation.
THE NARROW ONE: "'Ere! Wotcker game?”
THE BROAD ONE : " Nar then, young man ; no
hack answers; I'm merely doin’ wot’s best for
the workers —from MY point uv view!”
the truth has to come out, there is bound to be
trouble for the leaders for doing what the stupid
strike method practically compels them to do.
* * * *
“Every woman is an actress.” A Mel-
bourne pawnbroker lately told the Court that a
young woman, who was charged with annexing
.certain articles of silverware, “wept copiously,
•when pledging them, because it broke her heart to
part with her wedding presents.” Alas ! the
-alleged wedding gifts turned out to belong to a
furnished mansion the lady had hired, and the
• only effect of her tears was to impress her physi-
ognomy on Moses Threeball’s memory.
“Billy T.” : I have been waiting for
several weeks now, thinking the splendid Im-
ialists would rec ollect, and that their agitation
F
over the crass insolence of Germany in building
Dreadnoughts would be soothed by the remem-
brance. But they refuse to recall the facts, and I
mast rem ind them that
...
build their ships, my lads,
SS!”’ ’
Of the bulldog breed
That made old England’s fame !
-m- ~ -. „ • • 4.u„j.
Wasn t it this pleasing circumstance that con-
iA a o
soled ns all during the terrors of the Boer war;
yt'i m h i ,M boya
of the bulldog breed shouted jubilantly from one
i r ii xn 4-1 i. *.l .1 « tv-ji h ■*. 11]
end of old Earth to the other ? JDidn tit settle
all arguments? Well, why this ridiculous fuss
about a few Dreadnoughts? Germany is still
desolated by its hopeless incapacity in the matter
r , -,j- f,, , ~ j V J , r,, ■ ,
J 1”?, b ° yS^ f rnh bubdo^ breed ’ . P]alll, y
what the dear old Other Country wants is not
DreadhouffhtBf but a patriotic song.
This paper is pessimistic at times, but it
yet hopes to hear that the citizens of Collingwood
(Vic.) have repudiated the action of their crawl-
some municipal councillors in asking Andrew
Carnegie for a gift of a library. They were moved
thereto by the success of the adjacent suburb of
Northcote in cadging £2OOO worth of
literature. Collingwood boasts a Labor
member; it is part of the electorate of
Federal Labor Minister Tudor; it has
bred many an honest, self-reliant demo-
crat ; it but lately spurned the proposal
to offer Britain a Dreadnought—and’ it
ought to be above cadging; money from
the man who made his millions out of
the toilers, and who hired private detec-
tives to shoot down the same toilers
when their views as to the distribution
of profits didn’t coincide with his own.
From select St. Kilda or trading P’ran
one expects such abasement, but since
when has Collingwood taken to eating dirt?
* * * ■*
“The Undersigned” writes from a remote
town where mails are few :—-
The well known-propensity ot wild animals to go away
to some lonely spot when death is imminent seems to be
characteristic of the animals that infest the Ottoman
throne. When a Turkish sovereign sees that he is about
to be sent for he usually sneaks off to a kiosk, or some
such fixture, to end his days. True to this instinct, Abdul
the Damned, when he saw lately that the game was up,
found his way to the Yildiz Kiosk. Most people know
what a kiosk is like. There is one in the quadrangle at
the Melbourne Exhibition Building, which comes into
use on days when sports are held there. It is an octagonal
structure, built of wood, covering a space perhaps 20ft. x
20ft. When not being used it appears as a plain
wooden shell, with no perceptible door and no windows.
But on gala days the place is thrown open for business,
and all that is changed. ■ The upper works prove to be
hinged flaps, which, when opened up, disclose a plain
interior with a central fixed screen, upon which are three
shelves for the bottles. The flaps are held up by pieces of
3x 1 Oregon. An acquaintance of mine, who seemingly
thinks to pull my leg, tells me he has been in Constanti-
nople and has seen the Yildiz Kiosk. He wants to per-
suade me that this kiosk is nearly twice the size of the
one at the Melbourne Exhibition building, that it has four
shelves for bottles, and that the flaps are held up by
pieces of 3x 2 Baltic. Of course anyone who has seen a
kiosk is not to be deceived by so manifest a lie. When a
man has been to “the East,” his imagination seems
to get him down, and he revels in pictures of
Oriental magnificence, which he expects everyone
to believe. For his crimes it seems something like
a fitting end to the rule of a Turkish Sultan
that he should make his last stand in an occasional
structure like the Yildiz Kiosk, which would seem,
anyway, to be a poor place of refuge, for, even if the
Sultan had not been naturally looked for there, the first
time sports were held and the kiosk opened up he must
have been discovered. Moving pictures of Constanti-
nople which we have recently seen prove it to be, in the
main, a place on the squalid and frowsy side, and I should
not be surprised to find that the Yildiz Kiosk is in size
about 10ft. x 10ft., that it has only two shelves for the
bottles, and that the flaps are held up by pieces of worn-
out bastinado.
A Melbourne lady, who owned up to the
cheerful name of Topsy De Beer and to 42 years
of age, asked Justice Cussen, last week, to for-
mally disconnect her from her husband Ernest.
Her narrative of seven years’ married life was un-
tidy and unsatisfactory to a degree, but it seems
to have been the best she could compass. When
De Beer captured her in ’O2 he was but 24, and
for several insufficient reasons they agreed not to
mention the rash act to anyone, nor to live
together until he had attained a suitable position
or something. Shortly afterwards, Mistress
Topsy proceeded to the
Cold Country to discover
how to produce her voice
correctly, and while she
was away Ernest pub-
lished the fact of his
marriage to her, whereat
she was much annoyed,
though Heaven knows
why. Ernest’s mother was
also annoyed, being of
opinion that her 24-year-
old babe was o’er young to
marry—to marry 35-year-
old Topsv, at any rate.
After a two years’ sojourn
in the land of Bull, Topsy re-
turned hither, but Ernest
had in the meantime faded
away to S’Afriea. He
wrote her once or twice,
and then disremembered
all about his matrimonial
obligations and privileges.
Also, though he still per-
vades Boerland with a
theatrical company, be
continues to disremember.
A suggestive circumstance
of the case was the appearance of two of re-
spondent’s near relatives in the box to emphasise
the fact that his mother cordially disapproved of
the marriage ; yet, though the inference of col-
lusion stuck out largely, his Honor sensiblv dis-
connected the pair. But Mistress or Miss Topsy
had considerable luck. Some Judges would have
refused that decree nisi very suddenlv.
“ Historicus ” writes :
Have those people who so wildly and persistently advo-
cate the hurried filling up of the waste spaces of the
habitable earth ever given serious thought to what
the dead may have to do on the last day? The
dead, rising with the bodies they had in this life,
must stand somewhere. How will they do it, with
all this fury for an increased birthrate, and so on ?
There are 50,000,000 square miles of land on the surface
of the globe. Now, in a scientific speech delivered by
the Rev. E. L. Eaton to the Methodist clergy of America
he estimates that if all the people who have died stood
in their bodies on this land they would be on one
another’s heads up 4000 ft. in the air. The problem of
where the dead shall stand with the bodies they had in
this life should be seriously faced. The churches have
egregiously erred in slurring over the matter. By urging
increase of population they are preparing a condition of
things that seems to involve the suffocation of the
resurrected person underneath.
A letter from Melbourne :
The case of Parson Ronald, whose star faded out con-
siderably in the Victorian Supreme Court last week, is a
solemn warning: to the preacher-man to keep away from
politics. The preacher is apt, by reason of his vocation,
to get an undue opinion of himself. He wears a halo, and
is vaguely supposed to ring- up the Lord and get inside
information. His tip, in fact, is understood to come
direct from the heavenly stable. He talks to a crowd
which isn’t allowed to talk back ; if it did, a policeman
might come in and take strenuous measures on a charge
of “sacrilege” or “ disturbing Divine worship.” He is the
only person in the community who can tell a man much
bigger than himself that he is a miserable sinner and a
worm of the dust without being plugged in the eye. As
a matter of fact, he is paid instead of plugged. Therefore
the parson—like the schoolmaster, who is also in
a position where his audience can’t give back
talk—is apt to get an undue opinion of him-
self. When he takes to politics or to editing a
paper he often fails to realise that he is descending into
an arena where he won’t be fortified by any halo, and
won t be supposed to ring up the Lord and get inside in-
formation ; where he will be just an ordinary man
scuffling in the market-place with other men of the same
size and much greater experience ; and where he has to
make good in the ordinary way, or be thrown out. And
if he does realise the position he is apt to realise it too
much.
So Presbyterian parson James Black Ronald, of South
Melbourne (Vic.), started politics under disad vantages.
He got the Labor party’s nomination at the first Federal
eloction (1901), and banged his nearest competitor by 955
votes. There were four candidates, and though Ronald
came out on top he won on a minority vote, which is
always unsatisfactory. He got 3211 suffrages, and the
awful David Gaunson, at the other end of the list, got 513.
He got in again in 1903 with a slightly faded majority of
827. There were again four candidates, and Sloss was at
the tail of the record with 592, which was bad for Sloss.
In 1907 the Labor party didn’t nominate Ronald, so he
ran as an Independent, and ill-luck struck him hard.
Once more there were four candidates, but Ronald was
No. 3 instead of No. 1, and John Mathews, who came in
first, beat him by over 3500 votes.
Then Ronald, being out of politics, tried to get back
into the preaching industry, but his Church offered no
enthusiastic encouragement. In fact, unpopularity fell
upon him. To all intents and purposes, the charge laid
against him was that he, a professional cleric and amateur
politician, had tried to ape the ways of the political
veteran grown old in the rough and tumble of Parlia-
mentary life, and had done it badlv. It was said that he
had been seen drinking in a hotel, or in several hotels,
which any politician might do withoutincurringobloquy,
provided he didn’t drink too much in too many hotels.
It was said that he owed money at the Parlinmentarv
refreshment room, which isn’t unusual— The Bulletin
knows of Premiers who have done the same thing. It
was alleged that he told risky stories, and even if it
was true many 7 highly-esteemed bagmen and dog-fanciers
have done the same thing. If Ronald had been a mere
parson in the House he would have been a failure, for the
straight-out parson is a weariful object in any kind of
assemblage. And as a parson trying to fall into what he
thought were the easy, casual wavsof thepolitical veteran
—to be another William Lyne or Charles Kingston—he
seems to have rather exaggerated the part. Anyhow,
Harper, M.H.R., is alleged to have passed remarks about
him. These alleged observations led him to sue Harper
for £3OOO, and the jury apparently decided that the acts
of Ronald the politician were unbecoming to the
aspect of Ronald the clergyman (though they might
not have been unbecoming to the aspect of Ronald, a
bagman), for it “ answered the questions put to it in
favor of the defendant.” Which suggests that the parson
should stick to his own job, or else go in for bee-keeping.
IN THE DREADFUL YEARS TO COME.
As soon as it was announced that the schoolchildren
and cadets were to hold a big demonstration on Empire
Day, the Navy and Army Veterans’ Association wrote to
the Department of Public Instruction, offering to take
part in tbe celebration. No soldier is eligible for mem-
bership unless he served prior to 1865, so there are only
about 100 members. We are of opinion that it would be
a good thing to instil into the minds of the cadets and
schoolboys what they may look forward to .—Daily
Paper.
Future Defenders: “ Great Scott! ’Avewe got
ter be like that ? ”
“ S.” : Talk of Tafct.’s and other lotteries
having no effect on Australian morals ! I know a
seemingly sane youth in Melbourne who threw up
his billet in the hardware department in a fit of
delirious exhilaration after dreaming that his
Eight Hours’ Art Union ticket showed the winning
number.
THE BANNER OF GUFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a gathering in connection with the Toorak branch
of the Australian Women’s National League a mere man
“ wanted to know how we were going to be governed.
Were we to be governed by a party which, instead of
helping people, wanted to drag down to the gutter every
man who had a few shillings in his pocket?” A new
banner, presented to the branch by the president, was
displayed and duly admired.— News item.
It’s now that the yelp of the Helper is heard, and the
people arise forthwith
(A hundred or more), and follow a Voice through mazes
of monstrous myth.!
The hook of the Helper’s extended now, for the balloting
day is near,
And it’s time for the racket of tea and cakes, and the
nights are brown with beer.
Oh, hear the cheers for the Empire’s flag,
And the rustle of feminine frill and fluff,
As the nice old man with the ancient gag unfurls ten
yards of stuff —
His banner of specious guff !
At the loud, wild cry of the lovely man with a shilling or
two to spare,
The people (100 or more) applaud, and they feel of their
new back-hair ;
They sit back tight, and they cry “ Hear, hear ! ” and
they know that he speaks the truth,
For it’s all been put in the paper before —the gutter-
brigade, forsooth !
There, listen ! —the voice of the missioner, sent
To a gossiping people who powder-puff,
Unfurling the flag of his argument, which is certainly
neat enough—
A banner of wondrous guff !
Tp-flap once more the grand old flag of the Empire, tried
and true,
To block, in time, the draggerof drags from the dragging
he wants to do.
We’ve come (100 or more) to shout “ Hear, hear ! ” and to
howl “ Oh, shame! ”
To back up the leaders of you-know-what at their pocket-
protecting game.
On a broken reed do the loafers lean,
While we flaunt the flag of our doctrine tough.
It’s pretty, and pink, and of course it’s clean ! —and it’s
bordered with crimson bluff—
Our lofty banner of guff !
VICTORIA.
FRANT HENTY.
PREPARATION FOR
THE STAGE
[For The Bulletin
'T'HEY say that she’s of lowly birth,
J- Her vulgar name is Sally.
Her early efforts woke the mirth
And scorn of Brogan’s Alley,
And now she is a huge success
And flies above her station,
Though for the stage she must confess
She’s had no preparation.
But she possessed a splendid cheek,
Twin legs—described as hummers —
The preparation every week
The chemist sells all-comers !


Follawino on s*« e SS of iNforUj'co+e.
Council jh Getting oojouf op
CMn«<«e <for ajibrwy. l»>e Mayor
lor of deeded to do
} Ctrl' in | /r^v
"|„ oJir y<mn ? <»." &■> sort- of M«c»n+- •
1 CAt-- Cws^l-S :^(2S:fe»^e-
I myself could bom'f'
out* several soUtfony jl|l|;ll|
of -tt/c question. #
We need not^"construct*
new WorKj out - of Revenue'. jpf||ji
o+V.»cc Irvine) /
Ot«w£ li*f2 Soo /
life
•• id .
Aus '.— ” S&y, - while youre tryirrp +b nji-A oil 2< WAt&b , you
&S WeU Tj&v© a*. <>o act pd-patuaJ hrotfon j2r
■foe goiaslone - if you could -to d i sc.over the-
l|iVir op life pull it~'4»d ov”er 3oe COOK |
"H-O-fteaJie Sydney appointed a,*n
AKf;-(vbour delesa, + e ivi /Aelb ,$< b&d
i,
A 'B
-F, s r ftTt ///TyT\J
Rights 11 u V_J«/ q .
su 9 i
- Look 1-je re, Murray, w hats H
I he3,l' 2\boU+" you oa'tt'|*7p tAb B|
I 2\ L*nd ?” 8]
• —l 0o»» I""*you "be aj j
W« rqu^l - (>i'C+'e«d “to do «jO»v)e'l*jinO
n oW 'fee confounded Federal CJov.
ta,Ken **J» J ** r- 3
.
Empire Orafor : dea^tly bloomin' L&.boir 9byYj Sed Won-Tgiv© &, .. \y^
I r is .“f * we
Heated &irt4ian*n> Cbomsl-yow Vmbua W© never sed fmffin of -Hie K.tra .
ojiei7it££ Of <
rfet7
FEDERAL POLITICS.


life's f OJolfes
Schnapps» Schnapps
A PURE SPIRIT, SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME.
INITIALS "N’WS"
formed by Nature in two rarely fine Black Opals, have just reached
us in the rough from the mines.
They are rarities, nay they are unique.
Thousands of pounds could not produce others.
What a lovely idea to have one’s own initial formed in a
glorious opal and set with diamonds !
’Twould form a jewel celebrated wherever known.
It will afford us pleasure to show them to callers.
Centre Black Opal
surrounded with
Diamonds, £l2.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
Plain Figures Cash.] 23 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE LAST STRAW.
If Jimmy called y’r a fool an’ a liar y'r
needn't uv ’arf killed ’ im .”
"But 'e knock'd me pint o’ beer over, an ’ never
even offer’d to buy me ernother !”
“ C.0.N.” : I enjoy The Bulletin Abo.
tales, but one gets wearied of the eternal ex-
aggeration, and sighs for a little of the meat of
plain fact to be sandwiched between the slabs of
fiction. Here are some facts about the cock-
roaches that infested the Solomon Island copra
catcher Bonny Jane, which the crew fondly nick-
named The Club. When we got back to Sydney
we left the ship for a week, and after removing
everything else eatable, laid down a big supply of
phosphorus mixed with treacle and fat. When
we came back, a gang of men was kept going the
whole of the day sweeping the carcases overboard.
We sang a new song unto the Lord, and weighed
anchor. Sixty miles out night came down, and
the crew blasphemed with fear when the cock-
roaches came out almost as numerous as ever.
They carried two bright lights, caused by absorb-
ing the phosphorus, to which their systems had
become immune. A gale and a half was blowing,
but The Club wallowed through it, lumbering
along before the southerly at a tremendous
pace for a copra waggon. Still we noticed
she was making a deuce of a lot of water.
Twelve kanakas manned the pumps, and
by hard work on their part and fright-
ful swearing on the part of the mate, they kept
The Club on the top of the Tasman Sea four
blessed days and nights. The evening and the
morning were the fifth day, and the Kanakas lay
stretched out in the last stage of exhaustion, and
the water gained rapidly. So the old man de-
cided to save what he could of her, for a good
sailor hates to let his ship go down if there’s a
patch to put her on. At nine p.m. The Club was
moored with her keel on Middleton Reef, and the
whole crew took a much-needed rest. At day-
light the boats were got out and provisioned. The
weather was calm and beautiful, and we left the
Bonny Jane on the reef with all sails set. As we
Eushed off we.saw the cause of the trouble. Every
it of oakum had been eaten out of the seams,
leaving them as bare as a hungry dog leaves a
bone. “By hell, the eels!” exclaimed the old
man. Said the mate, soothingly: “Oh, we’ve
plenty; we can do without them.” “You billy-
goat,” snorted the old man, “I’m not talking
about the preserved eels on board, but the eels
in Darling Harbor that sucked the oakum out of
her seams.” One of the kanakas shouted to us to
look at the cockroaches, and as we came round
under the stern into the morning sunlight every
seam and butt was full of them, their brown coats
glistening in the carmine glow, their horns—what
I believe scientific people call antennae, or some
such name—waving a farewell. Then we steered
for Noumea under full sail. At 5 p.m. a light
nor’-easterly sprang up, and at 10 p.m. the captain’s
boat hailed, “ Sail-ho ! ” We all strained our eyes
through the starlight, and then the mate swore.
It was The Club, or her ghost, all on her own,
steering a very erratic course. The mate boarded
her. Not a drop of water was she making, and
not a cockroach was to be seen. He brought her
round and picked up the captain’s boat, and they
sat down to figure out the scientific explanation.
It was obvious enough. The ’roaches had swarmed
into the seams when the tide was low and the ship
high on Middleton Reef. But the tide rises very
quickly in that latitude, and it came with a rush,
taking the ’roaches by surprise, and the myriads
between the planking and the lining were drowned
where they stood. Then they swelled up and
caulked the Bonny Jane as well as they could have
done it in Mort’s Dock. Anyhow, it lasted till
we reached the Solomons, where The Club is
doing service to this day as a store-ship. Yes,
there’s too much fiction in the Abo. page, and a
lot of interesting facts like this get squeezed out
in consequence.
* * * *
“ Gip ” tells a bee-tale :
“ Huffin-Guffin ” is curious about the favorite bush
occupations of “Aboliars.” M.v business is straining
“ wild ” honey. A fortnight since a friend of mine
named Ben stole a tub of it from the most business-like
set of bees it has been my (or his) bad fortune to meet,
and presented it to me. He said he’d come down after
tea and show us how to strain the honey, but our enthu-
siasm was so great we didn’t wait for him. We placed
the tub in the middle of the dining-room floor. (I should
explain, perhaps, that our humpy boasts only two rooms,
but this is not said in a spirit of complaint—there’s
plenty of room outside under Monaro’s gracious sky.)
With the garden trowel we filled a bag with a portion
of the mess, and hung it in front of the fire to drain,
placing our other tub under it. Ben came in after a bit
just as the honey had begun to ooze drop by drop. He
said apologetically that we should have “ pointed ” the
bag. We told him, patronisingly, that it was all right—
the tub would be half-full in the morning. Ben didn’t
say a word. Besides being very enduring, he is an ex-
tremely polite man.
In the morning we were surprised to find only a cupful
or so had drained. It was washing-day, but as both tubs
were occupied I decided it didn’t matter. I was still full
of enthusiasm, but the house was rather dirty. Bv
Tuesday about a dipperful of honey mixed with melted
wax had drained. On the sunny verandah I had hung
another bag over a kerosene tin, but a colony of ants and
a large swarm of bees had this so well in hand that I
daren’t approach it, except at night, and then it was to
find hundreds of the insects stuck fast in the tin, dead or
dying. By this time I had started to re-strain the
strained lioney through muslin into bottles. It took
from four to six hours to fill a bottle.
My enthusiasm was somewhat damped. In spite of
myself, I was growing snappy. Wednesday, Thursday,
the rest of the week went by, and the first bag of
honey hadn’t yet strained. I no longer pretended to
any enthusiasm. I stumbled about the honeyed fire-
place, scarlet-faced and perspiring, fighting the ants and
flies, my hair standing out around me, and expressing
my opinion of unstrained honey so forcibly that my mate
foraged for himself, eating silently, and leaving swiftly.
Every step we took we stuck to the floor. There wasn’t
a clean towel in the house, and I observed my lord and
master surreptitiously using sheets and tablecloths after
his ablutions.
By Wednesday of this week, 10 days after receiving the
honey, I was a very desperate woman. I had been
obliged to close the house against book agents and
visitors generally. It was dirtier than a blacks’ camp,
and like unto a neglected pigsty. On that morning I
set my teeth. I hung four pointed bags in front of a
blazing log fire, and cut a hole in each point. Four kero-
sene tins stood ready to receive the honey, and kneeling
beside them that live long day, before that blazing hot
fire, I positively “ milked ” from the comb the reluctant
liquid. At midnight I fell on to my unmade couch weep-
ing weakly, but the honey was out of the comb, and the
comb was in the creek.
Ever since I’ve been cleaning up. I have a very friendly
feeling towards Ben still, and the honey is rich and thick,
and altogether delicious, but never, never, never while I
live will I again attempt to strain “wild” honey. And
to that my lord and master says feelingly, “ Hear, hear. ’
* * + ■*
“Dark Horse” : In the days of Irrespon-
sible Government in Westralia, Rottnest Island
was used as a penal settlement for convicted
blacks. To distinguish the various prisoners (they
couldn’t well be branded and they objected to
clothes) a brass disc was attached to each man’s
neck by a light chain, and on the disc was
recorded date of conviction, length of sentence,
and other particulars. It is a custom for blacks
in the West to be continuously exchanging pre-
sents, and as their stock of bric-A-brac was limited
on the island, the discs were undone and ex-
changed, the teeth being used as pliers to
unfasten the links. As a consequence voluminous
correspondence passed from outside districts to
the Colonial Secretary, the country people assert-
ing that Bad Bobby, who had got 10 years for
waddying a white man, had returned a fat and
smiling nigger in nine months; while Jacky, who
was due to come back long, long ago, had never
returned, and couldn’t be explained or accounted
for. The authorities found out how it happened,
and delivered impassioned lectures to Bobby and
Jacky about the foolishness of exchanging jewel-
lery ; but Bobby and Jacky went on in the same
old way. Their shiftlessness wasincurable.
A BAD START.
NEW MILKER: “ D'ye think yer stepfather 'd let me make love to yer, Miss Norah?”
NORAH : “I shouldn't wonder; him an’ me never agree ’bout anything.”
“Bang”: I consider it high time that
somebody seriously addressed The Bulletin in
the interests of truth. It seems to me that The
Bulletin is a paper which has never been out of
the city, and, consequently, is got properly con-
versant with bush matters. As a result a number
of unscrupulous writers get copy, containing
most horrible lies, inserted in the Aboriginalities
column, and draw huge cheques for their per-
versions. My purpose is to dispel these vampires
and thus purify journalism. The worst lies are
told about birds, insects and small animals. Now
I am a specialist on insects, especially on ants.
I am acquainted with a tribe of small brown ants
in Queensland, and will give one instance of their
wisdom. One of these ants found a large, dis-
abled mosquito. A tree had fallen upon it, and
it was stunned. Being unable to cope with the
immense brute himself, he ran through the bush
hollering for his mates. About a dozen of them
climbed on to the mosquito to hold it
down while one of them ran horn* for
the cutter-up. This cutter-up is an ant
specially built for the job of hewing big
game into pieces suitable for handling.
The body Of the cutter-up is no bigger
than that of his mates, but he has a head
like a small coal-scuttle, and it is fitted
with terrible jaws. He is not able to
carry his head, so the tribe has it
mounted on wheels, and a couple of ants
on each side push it along while others go
in front to brush small pebbles or other
obstructions from the path. Arrived at
the mosquito, the cutter-up started graft,
and as he hewed the prey into small
pieces, the other ants grabbed them and
made off to camp. Then the cutter-up
was taken home and put in his stall.
After being well rubbed down, a rug was
thrown over him, and he stood like a
horse in the fire-brigade station waiting
for the next call. I forgot to mention
that while the cutter-up was travelling
an ant walked beside him carrying a
small oil-can, with which he occasionally
lubricated the wheels on which the in-
sect’s head was supported.
“ Cict ” : “Fraulein” is right (B.
22/4/’O9) as to the rabbit-oppressed state
of many Victorian children. But she
rather understates the case, in that the
majority of the unfortunate nippers don’t
get the schooling that “ Fraulein ” imagines.
With rabbits at 6d. a brace, the average bush kid
aged between seven and 14 can, with three-score
traps and a due amount of bullying, make from
£2 to £3 per week. In good bunny country
adjacent to a railroad, the cocky with five or six
blessings of the rabbit age, paid at nil per week per
youngster, can easily bank a dozen sovs. or so each
seven days. He is alive to the fact that at the
expiration of six njonths he will probably be
fined Is. per head, with ss. costs, for each child,
for breaching the Public Instruction Act. But
that trifling tax on his industry doesn’t worry
him. . And should he reside outside the couple of
miles explained in the Act, he escapes even the
Is. fine twice per annum. Another point, by
the way, in which the rabbit industry defeats that
of the cow, in that it is mainly a nocturnal job.
“Huffin-Guffin”: In answer to “L’Fou’s”
query (B. 29/4/’O9) as to what becomes of the lost
water in -silted-up rivers. The water isn’t lost; it
is only gone before. Instead of big holes full of
water remaining over the dry seasons, the fluid all
runs away to the sea. By the way, I feel rather
hurt that “L’Fou ” should couple his Tarwin with
my Glenelg. The Tarwin River is only a creek,
and a mere creek doesn’t know any better than to
get silted up. It has no brains. No creek
ever had enough brains to rise to the higher
branches of its profession. I went fishing in
the Tarwin one Sunday, years ago. At least,
I intended fishing, but I couldn’t get a fishing-rod
short enough. Then I tied the line on my finger
and held it out, but the snakes on the
opposite bank began snapping at me and
the bait. Owing to the smallness of the
SAD MEMORIES.
1ST DOSSER : “ Don't walk so fast, Joe. It makes
me think Tm walking to work! ”
creek the bait and I were so close together
that they didn’t know one froni t’other. So I
stepped over the trickle, killed a few snakes, and
went home. “ The tree branches in the riverbed
clog the channels,” says “L’Fou.” The Tar-
win hasn’t got a Ged. It’s only a cot. When a
tree branch falls into the Tarwin the water gets
lost, and has to find a new bed—cot, I mean.
Now the Glenelg has a bed, and a brass bedstead,
and all the necessary furniture to boot, and it is a
shame and a disgrace that anybody should drop
trees on a bedstead of such quality.
THE WOLF AT THE DOOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once, as I sat busy writing,
Songs of little worth inditing,
Came a sound of something biting—
At my door the thing I saw.
And upon my gin box turning,
I descried an optic burning
At the keyhole, filled with yearning,
“ Once again ! ” I groaned, “ The Law ! ”
“ Bailiff ! ” then I cried in sorrow,
“ Give me only till to-morrow.
With the morning light I’ll borrow
Something from a friendly store ! ”
But a snort of scorn amazing
Warned me that no tales of raising
Money would abate his gazing
Fiercely thro’ my humble door.
“ Bailiff, hear me ! ” I entreated
From the place where I was seated,
But he instantly repeated
That wild snort beyond the door ;
And the candle, rank and flaring,
Waved its arm of flame despairing,
While the Eye of Horror, glaring,
Shot its gleams up from the floor.
Then it was I fell to thinking
That my bailiff had been drinking ;
Why should human gaze unwinking
Fix upon the grimy floor?
Had the Man of Wrath been dining?
Then I heard a hungry whining—
(Some big dog was out there pining!)
No ! 1 The Wolf was at the door !
“ Beast of Gloom,” I shouted, madly,
“ Someone’s pulled your hind leg badly !
I have nothing ! ” And he sadly
Snuffled like a dreadful bore.
Oh how aimlessly he snuffled
At the door, and glared and shuffled
Until he my temper ruffled ;
“ I’ll put up with this no more 1 ”
With my scissors bright and glancing,
To the door I was advancing,
When into my head came dancing
An Idea tinged with gore ;
And I thrilled with joy delicious
When I found him unsuspicious
Waiting there. With one strong, vicious
Stab I slew him on the floor—
And I ate him hide and paw !
Bone and sinew—tooth and claw !
That’s what happened
When the Wolf came
Sniffing at my
Chamber door 1
N.S.W.
KODAK.


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
BABY’S LITTLE TROUBLES.
Baby’s cough, if not attended to, often results in croup
and other serious troubles. Always keep a bottle of Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery handy, and be prepared.
Every bottle guaranteed. Obtainable everywhere,
price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Mrs. Head, Fyans Street, Geelong lie.,
writes: —“I have found great relief from rheu-
matism by applying Chamberlain’s Pain Balm.
It is an excellent liniment and I strongly recom-
mend any person suffering from this distressing
and painful ailment to try it. My husband has
also used Chamberlain’s Pain Balm for cuts and
bruises and was delighted with the benefit received
from it.”*
EDUCATION BY POST.
-The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free. , - ~
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
“ Henry Phelthatt ” : I hold that Aus-
tralia’s really numerous bird is the crow. Here
are my reasons: (1) The crow’s birth-rate is well
up to the average ; (2) its infant mortality is the
lowest on record ; (3) 99'9 per cent, of adults come
under HM and HF life insurance tables; (4)
actuarial investigation proves that HM and
HF crows come second only to cockatoos in
the matter of longevity ; (5) war, accident and
poison-cart risks have been reduced among crows
to a minimum ; (6) the crow is not afflicted with
the congested population lunacy, but is distributed
throughout the length and breadth of the conti-
nent—wherever a sheep can die, in fact; (7) the
crow is a good, black Australian, and reckons the
land of his birth is good enough for him. If any
other aboliar can produce such an array of facts in
support of his bird, I’ll buy the Old Ma Land two
-more battleships.
*„* * »
“ Flinderino’s ” letter :
How the abolyre delights to call his fellow-contribu-
tor a liar. When an aboriginally appears that affords
the faintest shadow of an opportunity, he grabs a pen,
dips it into a bottle of venom and straightway commences
to call someone a despicable, unmitigated prevaricator.
P’rinstance, I mentioned in a recent Bulletin that the
peewee or mud-magpie was a very numerous bird, and
that if a census were taken of native birds the peewee
would not be far down the list. Whereupon
“Myrtle” (B. 1/4/09) rushes in and flings unfiltered
language at me, and savs in a loud voice that
the leather-head donkey-wallops the peewee, and is
the most numerous of our feathered inhabitants. Then
“ Oict” (B. 29/4/’O9) steps into the ring and calls me an
ignoramus and a false alarm naturalist for contending
“ that the magpie-lark was the most frequent bush bird.”
If “Myrtle"and “Cict” will again examine my par of
the 4/3/’O9, they might discover that I merely asked the
question : “ Which was the most numerous native bird?”
But I did not say the peewee headed the list. However,
as I said before, most aboriginaliars will go miles out of
their way and cross several creeks just for a chance to
call somebody a liar.
OUTBACK SARCASM.
TIRED SWAGGIE : "D y’ ever yet any rain round
this way?”
COOKIE : "Dunno, mate! I've only bin livin'
’re a cowple o’ years.”
A HUNTER OF SMALL GAME.
IMMAULATE HOUSEWIFE: "My good man , did you ever take a bath?”
DEADBEAT DAN : " S’help me, never, mum. I never took nothin’ bigger'n a stiver spoon in me life.”
“ Edyson ” : Shea, of Billybit, was the
most miserable man I ever knew. He was miser-
able in his sober moments, so miserable that a
dog wouldn’t live with him, but he was worse in
drink. His cat ran away ; so did his wife. The
cockatoo stayed because it was chained up. Under
the influence of beer Shea’s melancholia be-
came calamitous. Nine long beers made him
suicidal. After the ninth lie always wanted
to die. He sought the advice of Canty and
his customers re the superiority of hanging
over drowning, or shooting. “Or d yeh think
poison’s more reliable?” Shea would
One afternoon he appealed to Canty : “ What d
yeh say to hangin’, Tim? Don’t you think
hangin’s cheap and advisable?” “Yes, said
Canty, “fer G-or’sake hang yerSelf ! Here s a
rope. I’ll lend yeh me stable.” Shea took up the
rope, went to the door, returned and finished his
beer, drifted to the door again, bade everybody
farewell, and passed on, with the implement of
death' dragging behind him like the
Devil’s tail. A few minutes later a
clamor arose in the stable. Nobody
responded. The yelling was re-
sumed. Heavy boots smote on the
weatherboards. Still the popu-
lace of Billybit was unmoved.
But after several minutes of
yelling and kicking Canty led
the crowd to the stable.
Shea was there, suspended
in mid air. But he had a
tenacious grip of the taut
rope with both hands, and
was hanging on to it with
desperate zeal, and yelling
for help. The crowd left
him, while Canty enlisted
the sympathies of Mounted-
constable James, and then
Shea was taken down, and
given three weeks’ gaol.
After that “le miserable”
favored poison, shooting,
drowning—any form of sud-
den death but hanging. He
is still well and miserable,
they tell me.
Another advt. for the
land monopolist ! Recently
the N.S.W. Parliament sanc-
tioned a railway from Bogan
Gate to Bulbodney, in order to
reach the copper fields on the
Bogan River. At present the fine
has got to a point on the plains known
as Tullamore. Apparently the loan
money has all been blewed, for the line has
come to a dead stop. But this would be better
than nothing only for the fact that the railway
terminus is land-locked. The only means of
getting there is by one winding road, and the road
winds so much in its efforts to keep off the corns
of the big landlord that it amounts to a tragedy.
The copper mines, for instance, are less than 30
miles from the present terminus as the crow
hurries, but the road, in its anxiety to keep off the
corns of the big landlord, is so unlike the crow
that Trangie station (50 miles crow-trek away) is
really nearer than the mines. In the early days
the State was in such haste to give land away that
it didn’t even reserve road space.
M. -tr * *
“ Oby ” : It was not a kink in his brain,
but inequality in the length of his legs, that
caused swagman Johnson to walk in a circle, as
reported, when lost in the Darling country, the
other week. Many a lost bushman has cursed his
lack of intelligence when it was simply his leg
that was at fault. There is probably no man
whose two extremities are exactly the same
length. Measurement of skeletons proves almost
universal inequality:—sometimes the right shank
is longer, but far more frequently the left. The
consequence is that, unless his eye corrects his
motions, a lost man will make a curve in the
direction of the longer stride. Knew a bullock-
driver who got lost in the Gympie ranges. First
night he built a fire ; on the two succeeding nights,
after travelling all day, he arrived at the same spot.
He had a short leg, like most men who do that
sort of travelling.
* * * *
The egg-laying hen-fights, encouraged by
enterprising newspapers, are blamed for the
sterility or partial sterility of many fowls at the
present time, and consequently for the famine
prices which eggs have attained in feydney dur-
ing recent weeks. It was a mean enthusiasm
at the best—that of a lot of big hulking men,
some of them civil servants with high salaries,
dodging a hen about an enclosure to drag an extra
egg or two per week from her. For a time, under
the goadings of Watkin Wynne and the admiring
encouragement of Janies Fairfax, many hen-owners
became delirious in pursuit of the extra egg, and
worthy fowls have had their constitutions under-
mined in the struggle. This is a fitting subject
for the Women’s Guilds and Y.M.O.A. of Sydney
to take in hand, but the emaciated run-down hen
was too broken-spirited to appear before these
bodies with her complaint.
« * » *
“ 5.P.8.” : The bush at all times is a
weird old place, but Gelantipy (Vic.), near where
the beautiful Buchan caves dwell, is the queerest
part of it I’ve yet encountered. It was sports
day when I first struck it. Somehow the atmo-
sphere seemed to me different from that of the
usual backblockshamlet at sports time. The odor
of beer was wanting. It had been supplanted by
another and to me less grateful reek. Suddenly I
grasped the trouble. The air hung thick with
peppermint. Everyone was absorbing lollies like
mad, or G. H. Reid. During one of the early
contests a big, rawboned individual loped up to
me and hiccupped the words : “ Got er lollie on
yer, mate?” “No,” I said coldly, “I don’t keep
a store.” “ Must be a stranger about here,” he
said dazedly, and wended his way elsewhere.
Everybody seemed in good spirits, and they all
chewed or sucked sweets. In the quarter-mile
event the two judges were missing from the
starting post. The secretary grew nervous. He
turned a bull’s-eye in his cheek and went in
search. Finally he discovered the twain under a
tree discussing a bag of peppermints In the
meantime the runners had started. The track
was precipitous, and small drops of 3ft. or 4ft.
over ledges here and there made the contestants
weary. They plugged on and on, but no tape
greeted their eye. McLeod, in the lead, seeing
the others were done, decided to take a rest,
meanwhile keeping a sharp eye out for Connor,
the second man, who was lying down, blowing
hard and gnawing barley-sugar, about 20yds.
away. "Just then the judges came running up
with the tape, and in pepperminty tones wanted
to know what race was on. The difficulty was
overcome by McLeod being declared the winner,
with Connor, who came up five minutes later,
second. That night Gelantipy went hilari-
ously mad, and ate or sucked the health of every
past winner during the Gelantipin period.
SIGNS OF RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some clouds had gathered in the sky
After a spell of weather dry.
Then mother suddenly rejoiced
Because she found the salt was moist.
My gammy leg began to pain ;
Said dad, “ I’m sure that it will rain.”
Kate thought we had a splendid show,
Because her corns were aching so.
“ It’s not far off,” said Uncle Jack ;
“ The moon came in upon her back.” '■
Joe knew ’twas coming from the way
The jackasses had laughed all day.
Tom said we’d have a fall all right ;
He’d heard a tree-frog overnight.
Sam made it surer by the news
That he had seen black cockatoos.
Fred’s hopes were based upon his girl,
Whose hair had just begun to curl.
Jim said the ants were shifting out,
A certain sign of floods about.
George cursed the flies, and said that they
Were proof it wasn’t far away.
Bill Jones remarked the springs had just
Begun to rise, so rain it must.
Bill’s boy the day before had heard
“ What never failed ’’—the rare storm-bird.
Bill’s girl was sure ’twas coming soon,
She’d seen a circle round the moon.
And Mrs. Bill had noticed one—
A better sign—around the sun.
That’s four weeks back, but I regret
To say the drought is with us yet.
N.S.W.
HY. E. HORNE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (excevt of a hostile character) ivill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
B.N. : Sad rubbish E.U.: Like the spirit
and patriotism of your verses, but the form is a stum-
bling-block. Reserved for consideration—The Cub:
Unexciting account of four fishermen outside the Heads
—three drunk and one ill—thrown overboard W.A. :
Decrepit story of George 11. and Charles Edward and
Flora Macdonald and all the rest of them, of no earthly
interest to anybody.... H.M. : Your discovery that Sydney
contains members of the oldest profession in the world
was made very shortly after Phillip landed... .L.M. :
Rhapsody about “Our Beautiful Harbor” referred to
Premier Wade for his approval W.D. : Mild lament
wept over and duly buried....W.T. : Your verses are
like nothing else under the sun, unless it be your
grammar. Stick to potato-digging... .T.W. : Frenzied
jingo shriek about Britannia ruling the waves and
defying Germany. But we admire your Lord
Chesterfield reference to the Kaiser and his mou-
stache—“ Bold buck, with the startled air!"....
Ciss: Certainly try again. There are a heap of good
points lying about in a crude state in “Prudery’s
Prisoner.” John Pasmore: We can stand a lot.
but your black (land) snake which “swam round
the boat three times,” and “on being gaffed proved to
have several fish inside it,”is overproof... .Talka : Sketch
too ordinary....J. Smith-Guthridge: The phrase “thin
red line ” was first used in an article in London Times
describing the Highlanders drawn up at Balaclava
J.D.S. : None of your tit-bits fit for consumption
R. W.T. : On second thoughts, we print a sample of your
“Ode”:
Elysian fields, where romps, amid tussocks of tone and
(haw) jollity, ,
Popping of corks, and the thrills that are shot from the
rustle of satin,
Pegasus fat-heels skied with a buck, and tail-fnsk of
frivolity,
Kicking old Care down the shaft that the editor drowns
the Wild Cat in.
Yet, O ineffable Pose 1 thou dost mirror the lot of a
dreamer,
Who, stretching his hand through the night to the plea-
sures that well from a Star,
Drops through the “ voidness of things.” (Does the Rock
of Reality seem a
Rock, when he finds—as do I—Hebe Hope is so coy and
so far ?)
F. W. : Might do, but you use strange words strangely...
Warrena: Vague and labored libels on persons and con-
cerns are only of interest to lawyers... .8. : Why make a
song about you two sitting together and hugging each
other? Kiss and never tell is a good rule.... A.J.S. :
Elegies like yours add horror to the most painful of
deaths Millicent: That “milk white doe” is ripe for the
meat market or dime museum—not for publication
Gracie Grey : An ill-written account of the silly philan-
derings of two uninteresting persons... Philo: The
position is not serious enough to warrant us publishing
“ Australia’s Danger.”. . .G.K.Z.: Don’t recall your other
batch of jokes, but the samples under date(ll/5/’O9) were
so feeble that they collapsed in a swoon or something
when propped against one of the interior walls of the
W.P.B. and we have not had the heart to disturb them
since..!. J.O’D.: “My Love for You ”is the same old love
in the customary old metre... Dryll: Nicotine poem has
been smoked... .A.E.H.: You have no verse ear. A hor-
rible example to prove it:
In the winter of existence when leaves of visions late
Fall scattered all around us disarrayed,
Is when we see the wisdom of impenetrable fate ;
’Twas only that that stopped our being afraid.
Dogrill: If the eucalyptus does, as you say, distil spirit
into verse, why not patronise it? Why not hire a forest
of gum trees, and sit there and meditate? Don’t remem-
ber your “ last effusion,” for which you enclosed 3d. for
stamps; but we’ll send you the 3d. if we can only
decipher your address... .J.D.P.: Your first attempt a
melancholy failure M.8.G.: Don’t want to hear or see
anything about “ Bykey.”... .S.R.: Labored satire about
Saivation Army of no outside interest R.J.C.: Long-
winded account of common feature in bush 1ife.....
A.L.D.: As you prophetically observe, “of no interest to
the discerning reader.”....Norma N. : Uninteresting
sketch.. ..Anna M.: No wonder the hero got tired of that
wishy-washy woman.... Z.: The converted aboriginal who
declines to remain converted, and be jostled by Chows
on the narrow path, has this paper’s hearty approval
J K.E.: Your conundrum : “ Is the enclosed verse Tripe,
Trite, or What ? ” Well, it’s mostly What; but there is
a good deal of the other two in it a 150... .Dick : Your ill-
spelt imitation of fifth-class “ Looking Backward ” litera-
ture will not be published in our medium J. K. Ryan :
Impossible to value correctly without seeing the pictures.
Might be worth £5 ss. each. Probably water-colors, as
Cayley did not paint in oils A. E.: Mediocre verses....
J.T.F. : Wild screed of inconsequent statements. If your
“ many sketches in short-story literature ” are anything
like your poem, keep them to guard your home from the
amorous cat and the predatory dog J.O. : Your mates
were, vulgarly sneaking, pulling your leg... G.F.B. :
Your fine, large ear for music evidently got badly shifted
in that football match.... Alexa :If you think we have,
or intend to have, any truck with any site naming fool-
ishness you err grievously .. Quartz Crystal: Let up on
the inane Derryites..... J. 8.: This paper’s enthusiasm for
Dreadnoughts petered out when no knighthood came in
payment for its (anonymous) contribution of £250,000 to
the Boer war show. Hence your poetry has gone to
glory. Heavy literature about Amy Bock also sternly
repressed Burr Thar: No. Also, there is “no sense
in your going on in your attempts.” Citicus : Leave
out the “ citi,” and keep the rest. What do you honestly
think of this for a line of poetry :
Our love was void, our marriage a convenience ;
You’ve spoken truth, now Death your lips have sealed.
And that isn’t the worst line F.W.M. : Have
“kindly regarded ‘The Outcasts’ for publication (if
possible).” Result—Cast Out... A.J.M. : Disagreeable
story about two German orphans who will persist
in biting their nails.... Fredrika : Not worth anything
to this paper, any way. Try ’em on the Courier’s Woman s
Page M.E.8.: Foolish story about murdered dog
and sausages enough to drive anybody to drink....
T. J. (Invercargill): Alldugong remedies are manfactured
by the J. Lionel Ching Co., Dunheved Island, Queens-
land. If your local chemist cannot supply, write to the
co. direct P.A.M. : A very violent shriek—too violent,
in fact Reveille :As unmirthful a batch of jokes as we
have met for some time ...Ingenue: Blushing hotly, we
seized stamp and envelope, and posted your “Apprecia-
tion ”on to Norman Lindsay Seecasey : Impossible to
point out the defects of “ The Pedagogue.” It is simply
indifferent verse... .Jubilate : Too horrible altogether....
The Wasp : Cut out any of your verses that have ap-
peared and forward them to Tiie Bulletin’s accountant,
when payment will follow. You misunderstand the posi-
tion and so waste much valuable grief. We fairly hanker
to square up with your muse G.P.8.: “ Those Ashes
are ashes. They were out of our line.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
F.J.N. : Only good as suggestion. Artistically, you have
a long way to go yet.. ..Bob S. : Idea very poor, though
there are certain good points about the picture,. ..S.
Barton R. : No good in any of them ...Rot: Don’t like
jokes about worms, illustrated or otherwise.


ALL OVER THE SHOP.
A HORSE CLIMBS A TREE.
The following telegram appeared in Saturday’s issue of
the Melbourne Age: “ Geelong, Friday.- An ownerless horse
wandered into the town on Friday and took possession
of a tailor’s shop. After kicking the counter to
pieces it proceeded to Geelong West, where
it clambered up a large tree in the
borough, and stuck there.”
TOUCHING AUSTRALIAN COINAGE.
Arid incidentally Mr. Fisher touched on silver coinage. “Would it not
be better,” he asked, “to have something to show that Australia is a nation?”
A voice: What about the kangaroo?
The Bulletin rises to suggest that when our debt reaches £100,000,000, the
great event be celebrated by striking a special coin.
In the near future, the horse
will develop into a tree-climb- A
ing animal to escape f ■
motor cars. /
pOL.VT'£ - toast rM
* . 00 ndin* to t a meet-
yesp°” ~t at Saturday
ot “P^erth
V »»* fiwr- F \vestra« an
\ night, oi Hie xV f uw t tie
\ Speaker declared n wh»
\ * sSe ut have every Oo gged,
\ wow"* federal' 00 day
\ the # #rs ‘
A gingsv
A
Wouldn’t it be safer to practise on some Federationist already dead ?
The celebrated Mr. Quilp derived great comfort from belaboring with an
iron bar an old ship’s figure-head, which he imagined resembled an enemy.
Cfl v CL-/' N "
A POSSIBLE EXPLANATION.
London, Friday afternoon. —Manufacturers state that
the selling of model balloons of 20ft. diameter was
possibly the origin of the recent scares regarding
mysterious balloons hovering over the eastern
counties.
Small Boy : “ I was a-goin’ to give this 'ere penny to
the Dreadnought fund; but, after that there
explanation, I reckon it’s safe to lay it out on one
of them balloons.”
Permission has been given by the
Victorian prison authorities to the negro
convict, William King, to make drawings
of a flying machine, which the prisoner
says he would like to design.
The roofs of our gaols will have to he
looked to.
’Sir Harry Rawson (retailing the hardships of a pro-
vincial Governor’s life on his return “ H ° me '’
“ You see them callouses on my hands; well,
come from layin’ corner-stones. That missing thumb ?
That was bit off at a dog show’ that I had to open.
Sore finger? Blood poisoning caused by broken
needle at a ladies’ sale of work.
jZy £_ l/~~
~


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
“ All the world’s a stage, and each man in his time plays
many parts.” A great help to a
good part is a good appearance.
A great help to a good appear-
ance is CHERRY BLOSSOM
POLISH, which puts your boots
in the best condition. Nearly
all dealers sell large tins at
3d. and 6d. ( and you will do
well to try it.
Write us if you cannot get
supplied.
SWIFT & COMPANY,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Jim Jobson had a napping- wife,
A termagant was she,
A perfect scold who made his life
Continuous miseree.
When Jobson could no more endure
He bought (so we are told)
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
And quickly cured his a’cold.*
Huildsup
Strength
As a recuperative in cases of lung,
stomach or bowel weakness or after
severe illness, Angier’s Emulsion is un-
equalled. Soothing to lungs, stomach
and intestines, a great
aid to digestion and a
splendid tonic, it is
invaluable in lung
affections, digestive
disorders, “run-down”
conditions and all
wasting diseases. It is
the most perfect and
most palatable of all
Emulsions. For free
sample send4d. postage.
Of all Chemists, 1/3,3/9 &4/6.
i\i*»«**
ANGIERS
Emulsion
(Petroleum with Hypophoaphites.)
The Angler Chemloal Co., Ld., 7 Barrack St., Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Mrs. Moseley, of “The People’s ‘Reform’
League,” who complained that mere man had
spoiled the meeting called to hear Joe Cook, and
threatened that at future gatherings only females
would be admitted, is a daughter of the late
William Whaley Billyard, a solicitor, who came
from England in the mid-’forties to the proposed
new colony of “Gladstone,” as Chairman of
Quarter Sessions. Colonel Barney came as
Superintendent. The place was intended as a
penal settlement, the official designation being
“North Australia.” Colonel Barney and his
party reached Sydney in the William Hyde in
September, 1846, and chartered the Lord Auck-
land to convey them to the scene of their labors
and floggings. The Lord Auckland was wrecked,
and the new colony collapsed. Mr. Billyard
became Civil Crown Solicitor in Sydney. He
died m England a few years ago, aged over
90 years.
“ Jareel ” —his view :—•
In searching for reasons to explain the strange dead-
ness of the Dreadnought agitation—a deadness which has
been in evidence practically from the jump—l am fain to
put my finger on the lamentable folk responsible for it.
I don’t say that any collection, gang', flock, or aggrega-
tion of citizens could have made the blamed foolish old
idea boom worth mentioning. But the} r could, if properly
selected, have at any rate given it an appearance of life
for some considerable time. The crowd that pressed offi-
ciously forward and spilled itself into the movement would
damn pretty well anything. Consider its members:
Darigar, Hall, and Buchanan opened the ball by wild
post-prandial offers in a club. Dangar is known to be a
generous little man according to his lights. He is in-
decently rich, but then be gives a certain proportion of
his surplus cash away in charity. Over the deeds of the
other two in this line one prefers, when he tikes into
consideration the extent of their incomes, to draw a
kindly veil. The public knows all about them. And so
when the dailies burst into headlines concerning the
public-spiritedness of the trio the tram traveller just
smiled wearily, muttered a few cynical mutters anent the
maniacal price some people put on knighthoods, and
passed on to the latest yarn of the usual (anonymous)
capitalist “ from Europe,” who decided at the last
moment against investing 18 millions in Little Ooogee
owing to the “socialistic trend of Federal legislation.”
Hardly was the ink dry on the sheets which inaugurated
“Australia’s offer” than Willy Kelly, with astounding-
impudence, took it upon himself to wire to Prime Minis-
ter Fisher urging the latter to drown his naval defence
scheme in the nearest waterhole and put the money so
saved into a Dreadnought. Fisher greeted this move
with contemptuous silence, and William subsided, tem-
porarily abashed. Then Joe Cook rushed to Marrick-
ville and said: “The presentation of one Dreadnought
would be a mere flea-bite. The situation called for scores
of Dreadnoughts.” After which Senator Neild (he of the
jawbone) burst forth at Cootamundra (N.S.W.) with the.
assertion that “Mr. Fisher's absurd little craft, not big
enough to fight and not fleet enough to escape, would,
in time of trouble, require to be placed out of harm’s
way in fortified harbors.” (Neild held at this time with
C. G. Wade that the destroyers were “ River” boats- i.e.,
craft resembling motor-boats, only rather less stable.)
Therefore, reasoned Neild acutely, present England with
a Dreadnought at once. Meanwhile Allen Taylor got his
Dreadnought Fund and committee going, and in a little
while the latter brought its intellect to bear on the situa-
tion, and solemnly suggested a “self-denial” week
wherein, to save England, all hands should deny them-
selves “lollies, laces, cigarettes, afternoon teas and strong
drink ” for seven days on end. About here the public
started to say that the whole business was being run by
lunatics, and it took lightsomely to sending “ stumer ”
cheques to the fund and to the papers, and generally
treated the agitation with the loud ha ! ha ! of derision.
Assuredly when the inquest is held on the Dreadnought
Fund, the verdict will be, “Slain quite dead bv the
dreadful folks who mixed themselves up in it.”
Governor Bosanquet managed to keep the
story of his fall—from his horse—out of the Ade-
laide dailies, but it was widely telegraphed over
the other States. He rides like a sailor, with a good
hold of the rigging and a great desire to throw out
an anchor when the animal begins to trot; and he
had a sailor’s luck, for there was no kerbstone,
pavement or stone guttering on the footpath on
which he was deposited by his utterly disloyal
steed. He came down hard on soft earth, and
despite his 65 years escaped with nothing worse
than a shaking.
A small tragedy over in Perth the other
day was remarkably like the tragedy that is
liable to hit Westralia. Just after the first big
gold discoveries a man who had been living a quiet
little life—just the same sort of life that
Westralia itself had been living—went
over there and hung out the shingle,
“J.S. Read, sharebroker.” Read’s
business boomed, just like Wes-
tralia boomed ; and soon his share-
brokery was as profitable as any
in Australia. The next 10 or 12
years were champagne days for
both Westralia and Read; and
then things began to change.
Westralia started to borrow for
things it should have paid for
out of its earnings, if it got them
at all ; and so did Read. Then
Read had the bad luck to strike
Justice Higgins, of the High
Court, over the Wheal Ellen
mine flotation. Read pleaded
just what the State financial
plunger pleads—that what he
had done was sanctioned by-
custom, Justice Higgins said it
in:ght be custom, but that
didn’t make it honest; so he
ordered Head to part up for certain
promoters’ shares he had held on to, with
Costs. Higgins’ cold, hard truth staggered
Read ; he hadn’t got the money, and there was
only mighty poor skimmed milk left for him to
make it out of; and he was a sicker man than he
used to be. So he sat down, reckoned that the
odds against him were too big, and the usual ver-
dict was returned.
John “Jumbo” Armstrong, K.C., is now
the oldest inhabitant of the N.S.W. Bar. He
was called November 17, 1864, which was three
years after the late Julian Salomons took to
horsehair. C. E. Pilcher, K.C., was called
March 26, 1867 ; Reid, K.C., September 19, 1869 ;
and after them follow C. B. Stephen, March 26,
1870 ; Walton L. Merewether, June 6, 1871 ; and
J. T. Lingen, June 7, 1872. There are now up-
wards of 200 barristers on the N.S.W. roll, a
powerful difference from the time well within
living memory when Martin, Dailey and two or
three others divided all the law work that was
going.
Amid its unobtrusive burrowings among
the Debris of the Past, that laudable mole, the
N.S.W. Sydney Historical Society, brought to
the surface the other night a musty document,
which recalled an old-time Australian identity.
The identity was Peter Dillon, South Sea wan-
derer, who, among other things, threw a glim-
mer of light upon the fate of La Perouse, by dis-
covering some wreckage from the luckless French
explorer’s ships in the New Hebrides, in 1828 or
thereabouts. The document was a letter indited
by Peter to Sydney Smith, defender of Acre
against Napoleon, and isalleged to have been found
in a chest which once belonged to Lord Nelson,
and which later on drifted into the possession of
Mr. John Pease, of City-road, Sydney. This is
some of the letter of Peter :
I understand that the Governor of N.S.W. is about to
be recalled shortly. His salary is £BOOO per year, inde-
pendent of rations for himself and suite, and a comfort-
able house witli firing, servants, horses, and many
etceteras. I understand that the fees attached to his
office are such as to enable him to put by his £BOOO a
year ; my dear sir, it would afford every man in England
and the colonists the greatest pleasure to see you
appointed Governor of this delightful colony. . . , The
first four Governors were captains in the Navy,
educated at the old school, they knew more about
the handling- of a long- eighteen than tiie handling
of the reins of Government.... They were suc-
ceeded by Colonel MoQuarry.... an ignorant old
soldier from the Isle of Mull ; he was much liked by the
convict part of the colonists, but detested by.the free
men and the Home Government. . . . He was succeeded
by Major-General Thomas Brisbane. He understood and
devoted his whole time to astronomy. . . . He was suc-
ceeded by Lieut.-General Darling. N.S.W. is more of a
Colony for commerce titan that of farming. ... It is,
therefore, the public wish that, this Colony was governed
by a naval man, who, of course, would be acquainted
with the interests of all concerned in shipping. Your
being of an active, ingenious, industrious turn of mind
would be of the greatest importance to a Colony of the
above description.—Your obedient servant, Peter Dillon.
What kind of job Peter expected for himself if his
friend Smith got the governorship doesn’t appear.
WAITING AT THE CHURCH.
The whole responsibility for the failure to combine
must be laid to the account of Mr. Deakin.—Argus.
(Dramatis Personce: Miss Josephine Cook , heroine;
Mr. Alf. Deakin , villain; and the well-known
comedian, Tory Press.)
THE COMIC RELIEF: “After all my schemin’ an’
matchmakin’!! Oh, you —Oh. you — you —you
’Ow dare you trifle with a poor maid-
ing’s affections an’ — an ’ ambitions!”
VILLAIN: “ Ha, Ha!”
VICTORY!
Sydney’s imported Town Clerk Nesbitt is
in some trouble. He is a freemason and a candi-
date for the job of boss mason, vacated by Admiral
Rawson. The freemasons of Sydney say that
equality and brotherhood are all right in their
way, but they want no mere town clerk when
Governor Chelmsford, also imported and also a
mason, is available. His Ex. is, it seems, a very
great pandjuram of the Queensland masons, but the
English masons don’t recognise the existence of
the Queensland ones. Yet they recognise the
N.S.W. brethren. Thus in N.S.W. Chelmsford
is a blackleg or non-union member of the craft.
Nesbitt has emphasised this, and the craft, which
dearly loves a Governor, is giving him the glassy
eyeball for his interference.
Prime Minister Fisher and Minister for
External Affairs Batchelor are the only members
of the Australian Government who had
Ministerial experience before entering
Commonwealth politics. Fisher was
Minister for Railways ' and Public
Works in Andy Dawson’s six days’
Queensland Ministry of 1899. Batchelor
joined Holder’s Government in South
Australia in the same year. He had
better luck than his present chief, for
he held his portfolios (Education and
Agriculture) for 17 months. The
Holder Government was kicked out in
May, 1901, and Batchelor was returned
to the Federal Parliament immediately
after. He was Minister for Internal
Affairs (or Minister for Innards) in
Watson’s Ministry of 1904, while Fisher
was Minister for Customs. Senator
Turley is another survivor of Daw-
son’s flash-in-the-pan Government. One
more Senator with State Ministerial
experience is Paddy Lynch, of Wes-
tralia, who was Minister for Public
Works in Dagiish’s calamitous “ mark-
time ” Government of 1904-5.
The well-known R. D. Meagher
will make a fourth application for re-
admission as a N.S.W. attorney this
term. Ten years ago, Chief , Justice
Dailey, in handing out the Court’s
refusal, intimated that Meagher might
renew his application in “ a few years.”
“A few years” doesn’t seem much to an elderly
Anglo-Irish J edge who has about £3OO a month
coming in regularly, but it seems a good long
time to other people. Still, Darl'ey might have
told Meagher to apply again in “ a few centuries.”
He was humorless enough to do it.
Mr. G. H. Greene, M.L.C., of landra, near
Grenfell (N.S.W.), who was the first to
introduce the misery of growing wheat
on shares, is building a mansion that is
to cost £40.(100. Not one of the people
who farmed his land on shares is known
to be building a mansion that is to cost
£40,000 or anything like it. Mr. Greene
is a son of William Pomeroy Greene,
who emigrated from Louth, Ireland, in
1840. and settled at Woodland, near
Melbourne. Pomeroy Greene chartered
a ship in which to bring his belongings,
which meant his wife and family, a host
of farm and domestic servants, ali
known farming and domestic utensils,
horses, cows, pigs and poultry. It was
practically Noah’s Ark over again. He
died in 1846, very soon after his sea-
menagerie rolled into Port Phillip.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant sends a
tale with much blanky in it: —
The N.S.W. Minister for Lands has decided to chance
the name of Olovelly Park, Watson’s Bay, to Robertson
Park, in memory of John Robertson, who lived for many
years at Olovelly. The house was originally built by
Edward Flood, who is understood to have sold it to
Henry Watson Parker, an early Premier. When John
Robertson purchased the property he brought an “ old
hand,” who had been with him for years, to act as care-
taker while the place was being renovated and put in
order. On the property was a covered-in well,
tlie boards rotten with age, and the “old hand”
fell through and was drowned. Next morning, on
visiting the property to see how things were progressing,
John Robertson was told of the circumstance, and in the
full vigor of his manhood started swearing. He had had
the old man from the days of his laghood ; had kept and
clothed him and fed him ; and now, when he had blanky
well got him to a home where be could end his days in
comfort, he must go and blanky well drown himself. He
was, however, to have a blanky good funeral, which he
had, and John Robertson was chief mourner. The old
house, reminiscent of Flood, Parker and Robertson,
all leading politicians in their day, has gone the way of
the “ old hand ’’—into oblivion.
The members of N.S.W.’s great Stephen
family are marvels for preserving an appear-
• y , 110 matter how little of
that desirable asset they may possess. Ex-
Judge Matthew Henry Stephen, son of the
Chief Justice, who died at 92, dodges about
the city looking like some daoper and alert
J™i or barrister Yet his birth papers are dated
1«2«. it is full 40 years since he first defeated
Samuel Henry Terry for Mudgee.
Tom Ellison, one of the best-known
financial men in Melbourne, went out shooting
the other day, and was brought home dead with
a gunshot wound in the heart. There was a mys-
tery about the business, and Melbourne promptly
did a lot of head-wagging. “Tom” hadn't
denied himself the joys of life. Years ago he was
in the Commercial Bank of Australia, and in the
days of that bank’s bloatedness had climbed up to
be manager at Bendigo, which was one of the fat
billets of Henry Gyles Turner’s service. But Tom
Ellison wanted a job in which he could shake a
looser leg and have bigger possibilities; so he
joined the cheerful army of brokers, and for years
past helped numerous fat men in Melbourne to
sell their neighbors.
Bathurst (N.S.W.) has lost an old identity
in Gloster White. He had part-owned and edited
the Bathurst Aliens (which rose out of the ashes
of the Bathurst Times and the Bathurst Free
Pit ess) since its inception. The Argus
voiced the local Anti-Sosh and Deform sen-
timent during Gloster’s regime ; but, pre-
sumably, the Anti-Laborites of the district
didn’t consider their cause was being pre-
sented with sufficient fury, for they bought
out Gloster and put another in his chair.
When not occupied limning the horrible
dangers of Sosh, Mr. White bowled assidu-
ously on the town green, or taught Sunday-
school. He comes of an old pioneering
family, his father, J. C. White, having
been one of the first to penetrate the
waste places of S. Australia.
The estate of “Dick” Jones, M.L.C., of
the Sydney wool-broking firm of Harrison, Jones
and Devlin, cut up for £131,429. “Dick” was a
son of that ex-printer Jones who arrived in the
early days, and made a “punch” out of the
Maitland Mercury, which he helped to set run-
ning. Subsequently Jones, senr., showed a fine
capacity for money-spinning in Sydney ; and the
son succeeded the father on the board of the
Commercial Bank of Sydney and elsewhere. Few
men hereabouts drew more in directors’ fees than
Jones, jun. ; he was managing director of the
Harrison-Jones Co., and put in hisspoke with the
Commercial of Sydney, Tooth and Co., the Per-
petual Trustee Co., and other heavily gilded con-
cerns. Probably because he had the inside run-
ning he stuck tight to share investments; no less
than £95,000 of his estate was represented by that
kind of burden.
THE KIHS WRONGS.
Six lions fell to Roosevelt’s gun!... Kermit (his son)
shot only one.— Vide Sydney DAILY TELEGRAPH.
KERMIT: “ [?] me ef the ole man haven't got
a hide gettin' his picture took a-top of MY
lions , an’ me on his scurvey ONE!”
J. C. Williamson rushed off to Europe
last week, after witness ng a most successful run
of “An Englishman’s Home” at his Theatre
Royal, and giving the Dreadnought fund a lift at
Her Majesty’s, and generally making things uncom-
fortable for Germany. (P.S. —Mr. J.C.W. went
by a German boat.)
THE MAN FROM ’AMMERSMITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Collins, L.C.C., from Hammersmith (Eng.), advises
Australia to beware of Labor legislation, and instances
the example of Russia, which made a wonderful success
in the flotation of its last loan. —News item.
Australians, pause and have a care
Before you cast your votes ;
Before you tax your acres fair,
Or Fisher prints his notes,
Heed deep the warning, given free,
From distant kin and kith,
By Mister Collins, L.C.C.,
Who comes from ’Ammersmith.
He’s studied all our problems in
The Shepherd’s Bushmen Club ;
Laid bare before him was our sin
Of cig'arette and pub ;
He learned about the Hatters Six,
The Petriana myth ;
They know Australia’s politics
By heart in ’Ammersmith.
From each wild Socialistic plan,
He says, we must desist ;
Nor scare the gentle colored man,
The kind capitalist.
If we would act as Russia acts,
The loans she’s furnished with
We’d get; and many other facts
He’s brought from ’Ammersmith.
He’s solved for us the problems all
That once our minds distressed ;
But leaves another to appal
Us more than all the rest.
It’s past all human energy—
Its substance and its pith
Are —who is Collins, L.C.C. ?
And where is ’Ammersmith?
N. S. W.
A.B.


VENUS-A Tobacco of incomparable sweetness, purity
and quality. Sold in Cut Double Flaße 2 oz. Tins
and 2oz. and 4oz. Plug's.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in Engrland, and was awarded the COLd' me Da'l ,ne ”
11 NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Leplastrier & Co«, Ciroular Quay East, Sydney.
SYDNEY: Post Offioe Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDICO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Seoond-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
If you want a Winding- Engine or Winch, a Hundred-Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an Air Com-
pressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all illus-
trated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s catalogue of new and second-hand machinery.
Sole Agents for “Camel " Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Almost any morning now the Australian is
liable to have to swallow news of another new loan with
his fried chop. On Saturday a Westralian float was
cabled, and on Monday there was news that N. S. Wales
had held out its IO U for a mere £3,000,000. Only a few
weeks ago it borrowed £1,500,000 —mostly from the
underwriters—and in July it will have to argue with
local people who have lent it £850,000. The present
£3,000,000, or part of it, may, however, be used
to square up this last debt; but if the Wade-
Waddell plungers see a chance of getting the
bill renewed, there isn’t a doubt that they will
jump at it. In any case, a good slice—about a quarter of
a million—of the loan will be needed to pay off overdue
debt. In connection with this matter, N. S.'Wales knew
that it had a narrow escape when, a few months ago, it
asked for £1,500,000, and only got a few small odds and
ends from the public ; but it didn’t realise quite how
serious the case was. As a matter of fact, N. S. Wales
had promised to pay £1,750,000 in January last, and all it
had to do it with was a big overdraft. Yet, though it had
promised to pay £1,750,000, and had no money, it
apparently dared not ask Bull Cohen to lend so
much; so ic asked for £1,500,000, and had to pay
heavy commissions to underwriters to guarantee an issue
of even that size. As for the other £250,000, it appa-
rently got temporary accommodation from the banks
and trusted for something to turn up. Now it has
grabbed the first peaceful moment in Europe to rush
Bull Cohen again, begging him to lend enough to pay
himself with, and leave a bit over towards a further
drunk ; and by way of bait he is offered, among other
things, three months’ interest on July 1. In other
words, N. S. Wales is prepared to make Cohen a present
of two months’ interest if he will supply Wade and
Waddell with the wherewithal to continue their
riot. No doubt Cohen will oblige to a con-
siderable extent, in the hope that as soon as
possible after July 1 he will be able to pass
the loan on to somebody else. This trick of offering to
pay three months’ interest a month after the loan has
been floated will make things look better on June 30, when
the financial year closes; but it is costly window-dress-
ing, for all that. And, even on top of that, N.S.W. is
paying an underwriting commission. One way and
another, N.S.W. is beginning' to find borrowing an ex-
pensive business.
The cables supplied their own comment on the
Westralian flotation. First (Friday) a great success was
reported. The loan, it was mentioned, was covered three-
fold ; and applicants for a mere £lOO or £2OO were simply -
“ignored.” Then (Sunday) came this: “The new
Westralian scrip is quoted at 6s. discount.” It was a
pretty rapid slump for scrip that had been applied for
threefold, and suggests the wild-cat share-market more
than anything else.
This year isn’t half-grown yet ; still, so far,
Australia has borrowed £9,525,000* in London, all the
States except Tasmania and S. Australia having had a
hand in the scramble. And some day it will all have to
be paid back.
* * * *
“J. Penn”; One of the side issues of Prime
Minister Fisher’s proposed issue of notes for circulation
:purposes is a rather obscure sort of thing. Fisher assumes
that if the banks’ private note issues are cancelled he will
be able to circulate about £4,000,000 of Federal paper
money. This idea is based on the present circulation of
the notes of private banks. But the private banks are in
this curious position. In order to circulate, say,
£4,000,000 worth of notes they print about £8,000,000
worth. They only pay duty on the £4,000,000 worth that
are out, but the £4,000,000 worth that are not out help to
stock their branch offices with money to meet emergen-
cies, and this fact reduces the need for coin. The banks
make very little profit—after paying note-tax—on the
£4,000,000 of notes that are out, but the notes which are
not out probably pay a big dividend ; they cost nothing-
in note-tax, and they take the place of a lot of coin, and
enable the coin to be lent at interest. If the banks’ note
issues are cancelled, one of three things must happen : (1)
the banks must keep a lot more coin to replace the un-
issued notes which have hitherto, in a great measure,
s°rved instead of coin, and that would mean calling in
advances and giving an unpleasant shock to many cus-
tomers ; or (2) the banks must close many of their
branches so that the existing stock of coin may suffice to
go round and fill the place which the coin and unissued
notes fill to-day ; or (3) the Government must lend the
banks about £4,000,000 worth of notes, without interest,
on condition that they circulate the other £4,000,000’.
This last idea opens humorous possibilities. When a bank
is on its last legs, and is being rushed by excited deposi-
tors, there is no great demand for its own notes, but the
Government notes could be paid out gaily. Then the
State would be responsible for payment of them, and
what luck it would have in collecting from the burst bank
would all depend on whether it had remembered to make
itself the first preference creditor or not. On the whole
I prefer the idea of adopting the Canadian banking
system. It would give the Government command of much
more money, and it doesn’t seem quite so exciting.
* * * *
The Electric Light Department of the
Sydney City Council :
Sinking Deficit
Fund less
Contri- Written Sinking
Dec., Loss. bution. off. Fund.
£4,794
1904 .. £1,921 £1767 6 715
1905 -f i 2045 £1404 8,780
" (Loan flotation expenses, £787.. .. 9,567
Profit.
1906 / £8,648 £3349 1400 2,319
‘' l Net profit on Loan flotation, £357 .. 1,962
(Loan flotation and other expenses, £lOl 2,’063
Goodwill Empire Co., £31,000 .. 33,063
1907 ..-l Compensation for disturbance, £13,300 19’763
Profit. Sinking Fund. Written off.
I £19,144 £3587 £l4OO 2,019
{Goodwill of purchases, £79,375 .. 81,394
Less Loan premiums, £lOOO .. 80,394
Profit. Sinking Fund. Written off.
£17,697 £4652 62,697
The year’s profit has been cut up by the department in
this way:
Sinking Fund contribution .. .. £4,652
Depreciation Fund contribution.. .. 7’.344
Preliminary expenses .. ■. .. .. 224
Profit and Loss balance 5,477
Total £17,697
Actually the department writes off a trifle (£6B) more
than that for preliminary expenses ; but that amount
apparently covers expenses in connection with matters
as to damages that have arisen during the year. The
amount is therefore in the foregoing deducted at once
from profits. Last year there was an item of £469 “Loan
Discounts”’ included among the preliminarv expenses
which remained to be got rid of. This year,' instead of
that, there is an item “ Loan premiums, £531.” No doubt
the premiums on the £125,000 of loans raised during the
year wiped out the old debit and left this balance. The
whole position is more clearly shown this way
Goodwin, Empire Co. purchase.. .. £31,000
~ Strand Co. purchase .. .. 45,000
~ Imperial Arcade Co. purchase 20,875
~ Oxford-street Co. purchase.. 13,500
Total purchase goodwills .. .. £110,375
Loan flotation and other exes. .. .. 3,445
Total paper assets £113,820
Less Sinking Fund .. ..£15,400
Depreciation account .. 17,723
Special Fund 13,300
Loan premiums .. .. 531
P. and L. Balance .. .. 4,169
51,123
Net deficit as shown above .. .. £62,697
The “Special Fund’’just mentioned was compensation
obtained from the Government in regard to some property
resumptions.
Up to now, in five years, the undertaking has
therefore done this :
Paid to Sinking Fund £15,400
~ ~ Depreciation account .. .. 17,723
~ towards preliminary exes., etc. .. 5,615
In hand (P. & L. balance) 4,169
Five years’ profit £42,907
That profit, however, is not exclusive of depreciation ;
and this is the weak point in the financial management of
the Sydney Council’s electrical undertaking. The amount
put to the Depreciation account is only 2 per cent, per
annum ; worse still, unlike the Sinking Fund, it does not
get the benefit of any interest. The Sinking Fund, which is
to repay capital, is represented by Treasury bills and
deposits ; but the Depreciation Fund, which is to renew'
the works, is not represented by any independent invest-
ment—it is “ used in the business,” as the phrase runs,
and the business gets the use of the fund for nothing. It
isn’t at all clear why this should be so. If the money has
been made and handed over to the Depreciation Fund,
then that fund should get the full benefit of it.
There is no reason, at any rate, why fish should
be made of the Sinking Fund and flesh of the
other fund. And 2 per cent, is not enough even
if the fund was credited with its own earnings. The
Melbourne City Council’s undertaking, which has had
a much longer experience, writes off as much as 8 per
cent, per annum. Private concerns which own electrical
installations sometimes write off as much as 10 per cent.
Two per cent is absurd ; and while that and no more is
provided, it means that much of what the management
says is net profit is not net profit at all, but will be called
for presently to replace worn-out plant. Aldermen of
Sydney City Council in that connection are invited to turn
up the history of the Rockhampton (Q.) Gas Co. and
study it. It will show them what happens to the con-
cern that does this sort of thing.
Further details of the working of the Sydney
municipal electrical business :
Working Net
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue. Interest. Loss.
1904.. £4,061 £5,313 £2,436 £3,688
1905.. 22,176 15,065 £7,171 7,874 703
Profit.
1906.. 40,983 21,567 19,416 10,931 8,485
1907.. 65,868 31,899 33,969 15,025 18,944
1908.. 93,600 56,785 36,815 19,380 17,435
The figures in the last column don’t correspond with
those shown in the first table. But to reconcile things:
Profit for 1908, shown above .. .. £17,435
Less expenses in connection with settle-
ments re damages 68
£17,367
Add interest on Sinking Fund .. .. 330
Total profit .. .. £17,697
The “profit” being subject to the remarks previouslv
made regarding depreciation. The undertaking has now
borrowed £475,000 on debentures, and on December 31 it
also owed £84,912 on account of the purchase money of
the four private electric lighting concerns which it has
bought out—three of them during the past year. In
most cases it took over none of their plant from these
cos., but merely acquired their goodwill; and, as shown
above, the total of the latter stands in the books at
£110,375. Apparently, no provision whatever is being
made for writing off these paper assets out of re-
venue; and that is a matter which also ought to
have the attention of the council. Still, they
were excellent terms on which the council made the first
of these purchases (the later ones were somewhat differ-
ent). The council takes over the whole of the customers,
supplies them with light and power, collects the money,
charges the cos. a penny per unit for the supply, and
hands over the balance in payment for the concern. The
unpaid balance of purchase money carries 5 per cent. At
December, 1907, the council owed the Empire Co.—the
only concern at that time taken over—£23,oso. The net
revenue derived from the Empire’s customers during the
past year was £6594 ; and this money has been used to
reduce the purchase money (with interest) to £17,649.
The other purchases will be paid for in much the same
way.
As to customers, the City Council supplied
5,052,055 units for lighting, and 3,621,887 units for power ;
and of this it took 27'6 per cent, of the lighting units
(and, of course, none of the power units) for its own pur-
poses in streets, parks, etc. It took another 4 per cent,
for lighting buildings. The council’s customers paid an
average of £1 6s. 3d. per 100 units for lighting ; the
council for its own supply paid the department an aver-
age of 19s. sd. It is not, therefore, by loading the council
with expense that the municipal business is able to offer
increasingly good terms to private customers. And the
latter are evidently appreciating the service, because,
quite apart from the transferred customers, the follow-
ing progress has been made in the matter of sales to
private customers: —
Power. Lighting.
1906 .. 1,202,482 units .. 1,361,803 units
1907 .. 2,386,959 ~ .. 1,945,349 ,
1908 .. 3,097,936 „ .. 2,540,437 „
This remarkable progress can of course be traced by
following up and dissecting the accounts for each year ;
but there seems no reason why the council shouldn’t
issue with its annual Electric Lighting accounts a brief
statement which will blow the horn of this municipal
enterprise by printing such comparisons as these.
* * * *
The London Bank of Australia :
Dividends.
Pref. Ord. Carried to
Dec., Profits. sJp.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1899 .. £15,056 £9,456 £5,600 £13,468
1900 .. 14,816 9,456 . 5,360 8,108
Reserves.
1901 .. 23,354 9,456 13,898 5 790
1902 .. 13,690 9,456 4,234 10 024
1903 .. 22,956 9,456 £9,207 4,293 14^317
From
Reserves.
1904 .. 15,893 9,456 9,192 2,755 11,562
Added to
1905 .. 23,194 9,456 9,193 4,545 ’ 16,107
1906 .. 36,454 9,456 '9,197 17,801 33,908
SJp.c.
1907 .. 34,951 9,456 12,876 12,619 46,527
4 p.c.
1908 .. 34,212 9,456 14,716 10,040 56,567
This bank is still industriously picking up the pieces of
the ’93 smash. In that ghmstly time—now 16 years
behind—the London, before the sound of things breaking
had quite died out, agreed to pay 4£ per cent, on the
locked-up deposits, which at that time amounted to
£4,845,156. The depositors had the alternative of taking
preference shares carrying a cumulative dividend of 5i
per cent. In 1897, when the general outlook was very
gloomy, an amendment was made which provided for the
postponement of lj per cent, of the depositors’ 4J per
cent, if current profits ebbed too far. However, the 4J
per cent, has been paid right along, and, meanwhile, the
load has been steadily reduced—though the proportion of
the burthen so got rid of during the past two years has
been rather small, probably because, owing to the
increased demand for money in Australia, it paid the bank
better to have the use of the money even at 4£ per cent,
than to pay off old debt with it. Here are the figures
Old 4J Per
Cent. Deposits. Paid Off Interest Paid
Outstanding. During Year. During Year.
1899 .. £2,232,675 £956,423 £115,640
1900 .. 1,911,964 320,711 91,335
1901 .. 1,591,092 320,872 71,611
1902 .. 1,589,271 - 1,821 71,516
1903 .. 1,586,865 2,406 71,457
1904 .. 1,586,366 499 71,365
1905 .. 1,258,090 328,276 62,587
1906 .. 942,227 315,863 47,098
1907 .. 939,220 3,007 42,311
1908 .. 935,523 3,697 42,11.7
That is a release of £3,909,633 in 15 years, or an average
of about £260,642 per year. The deposits are due in 1917,
and may be repaid sooner on three months’ notice. In
1907, new deposits only showed an increase over 1906 of
£175,218, whilst advances had raced up from £3,757,600,
as at December, 1906, to £4,115,236 in December, 1907
which represented a lead for the year of £357,636. This
time advances have dropped back considerably ; but, un-
fortunately, new deposits have also made off in the same
direction. The extent of the movements is shown below :
1907. 1908.
Notes in circulation .. £127,381 £131,309 Inc. £3,928
Bills in circulation, etc. 990,968 720,727 Dec. 270,241
New deposits .. .. 3,466,393 3,392,486 Dec. 73,907
Liquid assets .. .. 1,642,839 1,586,691 Dec. 56,148
Advances .. .. 4,115,236 3,838,130 Dec. 277,106
Premises .. .. 382,762 383,584 Inc. 822
As regards profits, any figures prior to 1903—when the
last writing down was done —are of little value for pur-
poses of comparison. The record since that year reads
this way
Profits in Proportion to Capital and Reserves
COMBINED.
1903 .. £4 2 4 per cent. I 1906 .. £6 9 3 per cent.
1904.. 216 7 „ 1907.. 602 ~
1905.. 42 11 „ I 190 S .. 515 2 ~
Apart from old deposits, the London owes £4,244,122,
and its liquid assets total £1,586,691 —which represents
almost 38 per cent, of the total new debt. The gradually
increasing dividend on the ordinary shares recalls the
fact that, under the original arrangement (which appa-
rently was not affected by the later one), pref. shares
begin to get a still larger bite after ordinaries have reached
5 per cent. When that point has been passed, half of any
further profit that may be divided has to go to the pref.
shareholders until they get 7 per cent. ; but, after they
have had five divs. of that size, the preference as to divi-
dend comes to a full stop.
* * * i.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
Society (now Ltd.), of Sydney :
« Bonus
to Added Total
Policy- to Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. holders. Funds, serves.
1899.. £17,530 24 p.c. =£6,055 £4055 £7,420 £116,099
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 103,599
1900.. 17,213 18} p.c. = 7,087 4087 6,039 109,638
1901.. 19,963 18} ~ ~ 7,036 4036 8,891 118,529
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 106,029
1902.. 17,952 16 J p.c. = 8,224 4224 5,504 111,533
1903.. 17,184 16£ „ „ 8,248 4248 4,688 116,221
1904.. 23,313 16J „ „ 8,290 . 4290 10,733 126,954
£12,500 Beserves transferred to Capital .. 114,454
1905.. 21,447 14} p.c. = 9,312 4312 7,823 122,277
1906.. 20,403 14} „ „ 9,262 4262 6,879 129,156
1907.. 21,562 14} „ „ 9,237 4238 8,087 137,243
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 124,743
1908.. 21,230 14 p.c. = 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
1909.. 18,277 14 ~ ~ 10,553 4553 3,171 134,284
This co. was registered during the year as a limited
liability co. ; so there is not now any fire insurance co. in
Australia which does not write “Limited ” after its name.
With a subscribed capital of £lOO,OOO, it began with only
’ £6250 actually paid ; but it has gradually transferred
undivided profits to capital, until now it has £75,000 paid
up. Besides registering as a limited liability co., it
altered the deed of settlement, extending its powers, so
that it may now do accident and guarantee, and, in fact,
any insurance except the ordinary life class. The ex-
penses incurred in making these changes have been
charged to Profit and Loss ; and that, no doubt, accounts
for some of the jump shown in the last line of this
comparison :
Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Bate. Bate.
1895.. £29,416 £6,717 £12,528 22-8 p.c. 43'6p.c
1900.. 33,888 8,131 13,765 24’0 „ 40’7,,
1905.. 36,088 7,149 15,009 19‘8 „ 41'6 „ •
1907.. 36,358 7,471 15,694 20'6 ~ 42'6 ~
1908.. 37,462 7,710 16,818 20’6 „ 44‘9 ~
1909.. 38,824 11,223 18,170 28’9 ~ 46’8 ~
The loss rate has alwaj's been extraordinarily low, the
result of a close examination of risks —a policy which has,
of course, cost money in another way, and has involved
a heavy expense rate. Probably some changes will now
be sho'wn in the figures. Before the liability of share-
holders was limited it was natural enough that a policy of
great caution should be pursued ; so, in comparison with
what was possible to this co., the total business figures
have never been larg'e. It seems likely that the co. will
now take bigger risks ; and on the average that should
mean bigger profits—given good management. For in-
stance, if the co. had business representing £60,000 of
premiums, and did it at an expense rate of 35 per cent.—
which would be very high—it would make an under-
writing profit of £12,000, even if the loss rate were 45 per
cent. Pursuing its old policy, the underwriting profit
last year was only £9431, even though the co. kept
its loss rate as low as 28'9 per cent. And even if it took
business representing £60,000 of premiums, the policy-
holders’ security would be very good ; capital and re-
serves would still be equal to 348 per cent, of the year’s
premiums, which is about 200 per cent, more than is
shown by the averag'e even of British offices. Certainly
the risks of this office hitherto may have been crowded
together more or less, because until the recent
changes were made the co. confined itself exclu-
sively to N. S. Wales. But presumably things will be
different in that respect now. Of the dividend
shown in the table at the top of this, 8 p.c. is de-
scribed as interest on capital ; the balance represents
half a bonus of 20 p.c. on the year’s premiums. The
other half is returned to policy holders. Other cos. make
the same rebate ; but they deduct the amount from the
premiums received before publishing their accounts. If
this co. adopted the same practice, it would of course
have the effect of slightly increasing both the loss and
the expense rates.
* * * *
The Illawarr.a and South Coast Steam
Navigation Co. (N.S. W.)
Net To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1903.. £3060 8} p.c. = £2490 £570 £26,991
Sept., 1903 .. 2319 8} „ „ 2490 26,820
Mar., 1904 .. 2692 8} ~ ~ 2490 202 27,022
Sept., 1904.. 2192 8} „ „ 2490 26,724
Profit made on sale of wharf .. 21,051 47,775
Assets written down, £15,377 .. .. 32,398
£24,598 of reserves transferred to capital 7,500
Mar., 1905 .. £3562 7 p.c. = £2614 £948 8,448
Sept., 1905.. 2086 7 „ ~ 2614 7,920
Mar., 1906.. 3062 7 „ „ 2614 448 8,368
Sept., 1906.. 3079 7 „ „ 2625 454 8,822
Mar., 1907 .. 3348 7 „ „ 2625 723 9,545
Sept., 1907.. 2628 7 „ „ 2625 - 3 9,548
Mar., 1908.. 2466 7 „ ~ 2625 9,389
Loss.
Sept., 1908.. 1507 Nil 7,882
Profit.
Mar., 1909.. 3456 7 p.c. = 2625 831 8,713
Big changes have been taking place in this co. ; a
succession of strokes of bad luck—call it that, anyway—
forced a rather drowsy old concern to wake up and do
something. This shows, to some extent, what has been
done (the accounts are for the October-March half-year
in each case) ;
1901. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Capital .. .. £58,096 £75,000 £75,000 £75,000
Debts to public .. 3,019 1,845 3,850 6,380
Ship property .. 66,409 40,376 39,366 83,305
Freehold, etc. .. 17,846 900 900 920
Cash 729 43,515 46,256 1,962
Other assets .. 6,022 6,882 5,899 7,531
The co.’s fleet had got down to a very poverty-stricken
state when the Bega turned over in a tired way—the
characteristic way of the South Coast —and went to sleep
on bottom. After that the co. bought the Tathra
(late Kempsey), the Merimbula and Hillmeads. The
Merimbula ought to have been handed over early in the
year ; but the directors sent toti e other end of the earth
for it, and “various delays have occurred in completing
this vessel in consequence of certain alterations and
adjustments being required.” The co. has such bad luck
in regard to its foreign-built cockle-shells that it might
give Australia a chance. Not to mention the Bega,
which couldn’t stand upright, the Moru.va ran ashore
when being brought out early in 1907, and had
to be patched up at Mort’s Dock afterwards.
For some years the co.’s cash position was very
strong; the co. was, in fact, as much of an invest-
ment as a shipping co. With the capital put into
ships, the profits ought to be better, though the risks
will be greater. There is, however, no sign of any big in-
crease of trade on the South Coast. Certainly, the past
few seasons in that part have been wretchedly bad, and
the outlook is now much better; but, since the North
Coast was opened up, the South Coast has lost much of
its old reputation for fruitfulness, and the big landlord
of the South has also done his part in turning the tide
of settlement the opposite way.
In connection with every shipping co.’s ac-
counts it is important to know how much, if anything,
is written off to cover bumps and barnacles. Ships are
short-lived females, and when they have got into the sere
and yellow leaf they have lost a good deal of their value.
(The South Coasters who ought to be passengers have, in
fact, already got largely into the habit of creeping back,
wards and forwards to Sydney by the very gradual coach,
which hitches on to the train at the Nowra end.) In the
case of this co. it is impossible to tell what is written off
or put aside to cover depreciation ; but, in addition to
the reserves shown above, a repairs, suspense and con-
tingency fund of £lOOO has been established during the
half-year. There used to be sucn a fund in the past; but
it went when the co. was struck by a mixed disaster of
shipwreck, strikes and drought.
* * » *
In order to finance itself the Orient Co., which
has got the mail contract with the Commonwealth
Government, is putting something like £BOO,OOO worth of
5 per cent, debentures on the market; and Australia is
to have a chance to take about half of the issue. The
debentures are to run, it is understood, for 15 years, and
a sinking fund is to be provided, along with a mortgage
over certain of the co.’s ships. The Bank of N.S.W.,
which has the Orient’s account at this end, will probably
be found applying for £lOO,OOO, in one tidy little parcel.
One feature of the case will interest Postmaster-General
Thomas, the chief advocate of a Commonwealth-owned
service. That is that, while the private co. has to pay 5
per cent, for the capital, the Commonwealth, if it thought
of borrowing, could no doubt get the money for less than
4 per cent.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 Co., one of the Barrier
mining concerns that have had labor troubles since
Christmas :
. Ore Value.
treated, Divi-
tons. Silver. Lead. Profit. dends.
Mar., 1903.. 50,279 14‘01 oz. 16T3 £1,509 Nil
Loss.
Sept., 1903.. 49,778 14'54 „ 16’39 1,777 Nil
Profit.
Mar., 1904.. 69,777 13'8 ~ 15'2 12,680 Nil
Sept., 1904.. 70,643 13T5 ~ 14'8 11,090 Nil
Mar., 1905.. 59,687 14T3 „ 14’92 20,438 Nil
Sept., 1905.. stored by-products 721964 f £15 ’ 000
Mar., 1906.. 72,364 14’0 oz. 13'5 46,804 60,000
Sept., 1906. . 70,947 13T1 ~ 1319 49,625 30,000
Mar., 1907.. 70,770 12-34 ~ 13-32 61,945 55,000
Sept., 1907.. 73,816 13'72 ~ 13.93 65,786 50,000
Mar., 1908.. 66,812 14-24 ~ 15'49 12,256 30,000
Sept., 1908.. 76,085 13-93,, 14-27 22,080 5,600
Mar., 1909.. 33,563 13-48 ~ 14-61 39,284 10,000
Block 10, which is getting- its ore from the deepest stopes
on the Barrier, has to work a mixture that gives the mill
engineer very little satisfaction. Notwithstanding the
frequent improvements reported in the mill arrange-
ments, the recoveries during the three months the co.
worked last half-year amounted to only 42’12 per cent, of
the silver, and 72’65 per cent., of the lead. This is bad
for the output of concentrates ; but, on the other hand,
it means that an enormous quantity of metal goes into
the so-called tailings dumps. Block 10 has therefore, for
many years, been able to get the best price on the field
for its sfimes and tailings ; the zinc business, in fact, was
nursed on Block 10 tailings. Consequently, though the
mine was idle the last three months of the term, the Zinc
Corporation and other buyers kept at work on the tail-
ings, and large payments were received. The profits from
the various sources have lately been :
Sept., Mar., Sept., Mar.
1907. 1908. 1908. 1909.
Silver-lead concentrates ..£51,243 £21,041 £13,070 £2ll
Stored by-products .. 10,000 Nil 8,311 36,164
Current by-products
(unsold) .. ... 3,113 2,765 3,156 1,388
Interest, etc. .. .. 1,430 788 602 2,197
£65,786 £24,594 £25,139 £39,960
Less reclamations on final
adjustments .. .. 12,338 3,059 676
Profit .. .. £65,786 £12,256 £22,080 £39,284
The first line in this comparison tells a tale of disaster.
True, the whole of the half-year’s expenditure
has been set ag-ainst this item; and a good
deal of expenditure went on even though the mine
was idle. It will be noted that credit is taken for some
by-products, though they remain unsold. This co.’s'
practice is to assume that the current production of tail-
ings and other by-products is worth Is. per ton ; and that
seems a very moderate estimate. At present prices of
metals the co. could probably average at least 6s. for this
material. From the Zinc Corporation, on account of
tailings sold, £35,701 has been received during the half-
year ; and the amount to be received from the Corpora-
tion on account of sales completed is now £54,321.
Bather unexpectedly, Block 10, in spite of its long idle-
ness, has just declared a dividend. The large amount
lately received for old tailings explains how it is done.
In cash alone on March 31 the co. had £64,354 and owed
only £2739. Including by-products sold and unsold (the
latter at Is. per ton) the co. had £156,459 in excess of
debts. Beceipts from the Zinc Corporation will be much
less in future ; payments had got into arrear, and much
of the big amount lately received represents overdue
instalments. All these have now been cleared off.
No estimate of ore reserves in Block 10 is made.
The last published was in May, 1907, when 702,000
tons were said to be developed ; but considerable de-
velopment has since been done. The ore bodies in the
bottom levels are, however, comparatively small, aver-
aging about lOJft. In the south drive at 1315 ft. the
average is 7Jft. ; in the north drive at 1465 ft. it is 13^ft.;
in the south drive it is so far 9£ft. Nor is any statement
made of the quantity of unsold by-products. There are
over 490,000 tons, which now stand in the books at
Is. per ton, but 300,000 tons of these have been sold
lately to the De Bavay Co. at a price which is not dis-
closed. Monthly payments begin in July. It is quite
probable that the surface dumps are worth more than the
ore left in this mine. It lies next to the B. H. Prop, on
the south ; and after the ore body has dipped out of the
B. H. Prop., as it is undoubtedly doing, Block 10 will be
the next to lose it.
■***■*
The beginning of this week saw the withdrawal
of the pickets and the Broken Hill men applying for work
at the Prop, and Block 10. It has been a sad, and mostly
foolish, business altogether, and the less said about it
now the better, except that next time men have a dis-


Fraser § Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Offices—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
In the calculation of working costs m concen-
trating 1 mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uflcon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect On the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs, W. and J.
Leinptiere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering,
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s, per bag, Wm. Adams and Co,. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * ♦
This is the age of specialists, and it is scarcely
ths business of the employer to adjust claims for accidents
happening to his work people, although lie is liable for
them under the Employers’ Liability Act of ’97, Insur-
ance is a science, and people who are riot experts generally
come to grief when they dabble in it. So the wise em-
ployer takes out a policy with a well-known Insurance
Company such as the South British Insurance Company
(Head Office for N.S.W., 12 Bridge Street, Sydney; Geo,
H. Moore, Manager), which secures him all such claims,
just and Unjust alike, so saving him time. Worry and
expense * #
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on thecoarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging of the mesh , it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of tx f distributing apron of
special design, The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to he screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [2
< * * *
R, and ,T. Dick, Glasgow, patented and made
“ Balata ” Belting, universally famed by its excellence
for heavy mine work. Their quality is still unapproached.
For protection against inferior imitations note the
maker's name stamped on every few feet. Sole importers,
James Hardie and Co., Sydney and Melbourne.* [1
The Financial Times, London, in its issue of
9/10/’OB, comments as follows upon the last report of The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited“We
cannot withhold admiration for the energy which in
twelve months can secure proposals for more than a
million and three quarters, and issue 4853 policies for
£1,278,000. However vigorous the driving maybe, such
a result could not be attained if the Society did not offer
what many people want.”*
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * *
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Cocks and Water Gauges
and Bell’s Patent Belfry Valves are the most reliable for
highest steam pressures. Bell’s Asbestos Dagger Packing
is the mostefftcient, most durable, and the cheapest high-
pressure engine packing for land and marine engines of
every type. Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conducting Composition
saves 30 per cent, to 40 per cent, of the coal bill. Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street, Sydney,
and at Fremantle, W.A. Sole depOt for Best Yorkshire
“Farnley ” Iron.*
* * * *
Genuine Balata Belting.— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * •* *
That famous engineering feat, -the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
11 *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Montde PieteOo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Coumson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Siubkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * ■» *
The Kootra Mines Ltd. has placed an order
with N. Guthridge Ltd. for machinery, including a Nissen
Independent Circular-Mortar Gravity Stamp Mill. This
mill, after being tested, was adopted by the Boston Con-
solidated Mining Co., Utah, which claims to have the
largest mill in the world under one roof, 312 Nissen
Stanlps (equal to about 700 ordinary stamps) were in-
stalled. In power alone a saving of $14,000 per year is
said to be effected, whilst the metallurgical efficiency is
claimed to show even greater economy.*
* * * *
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Syd-
ney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne, have found a
great field in Australia for Jeffrey Elevating and Convey-
ing Machinery, which is being applied to most of the
industries where goods have to be handled in bulk.
Their Labor-Saving Appliances are doing good work in
many of the largest mines, breweries, wool stores and
factories in all parts of the Commonwealth, and the fact
that thev can do three or four times as much work as
platform lifts under the same conditions, means a great
saving in time, labor and expense. Gibson, Battle will
be glad to send catalogues to anyone interested in this
class of machinery.*
LOHMANN <&. COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables.
Large Stocks Always on Hand.
importers.of Tramway, Mining Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds, tl
pute with the employers they had better capture any
foreign “leader” who comes on the scene, bag him,
label him, and send him to S. America. Cann or Ihomas,
old miners who represent the district in Parliament,
could have told the men that there never vyas a time
when it Would better suit the B. H. Prop, (and Block
10, to some extent) to shut ilp shop. At every
move the leaders played into the cos. hands, and hun-
dreds will have to suffer for it. As for the B. H. Prop., it
ought to be ashamed of itself. Undoubtedly some of the
men who boss it, if not all, wanted to shut down ; but
instead of saying so straight out —in which case the men
would have left for other fields —they adopted this other
method, with the one object, so far as some of the co, s
bosses are concerned, of draining the unions’ funds and
giving the unions a thrashing,
* * * *
Latest developments at Broken Hill Junction
are not encouraging, in spite of the fact that unauthentic
assays of the first bore at the 675 ft. level were published,
leading the public to believe that the ore body at
that point was phenomenally rich. In any case
bore-hole assays are not reliable, and may be
either far too high or ridiculously low in compari-
son with the average metal contents of the lode.
Ih the case of the Junction w'estern body, it is well
known, from an examination of the ore body wdiere it was
intersected by the crosscut on the 775 ft. level, that there
are small, rich veins of semi-friable ore running l through
it; but there are also extremely poor patches. If the
diamond drill happened to penetrate a rich vein, it would
follow the line of least resistance as far as possible, and
perhaps give a core that would assay as high as 60 per
cent, of lead. It has sometimes happened that a drill has
in this way followed a small vein of pure galena for 20ft. or
30ft, through miserably poor lode formation, and caused an
excited manager to hit the sky with joy over the sup-
posed discovery of a rich and substantial ore-body.
Regarding the junction western development, it is very
probable that the average assay value of the ore is quite
as poor as the management says it is—that is, about the
same as the ore last milled from other portions of the
mine, The failure to find ore in the third diamond-drill
expedition sent out west from the 675 ft. level may be
accounted for by the fact that this level was driven some-
what further west than the level below, and that-if the
ore-body located by the two previous bores put in to the
northward were trending north and south, it would pro-
bably run into the level at about the point where the
hole was started from. Color is given to this supposition
by the fact that ore has been stoped at the point indi-
cated, and none was found further west.
* * * *
With the departure of General-Manager Hock-
ing, Broken Hill Block 14 seems to have come to the end
of its tether at present as far as the search for a payable
sulphide body at depth is concerned. During the months
of diamond-drill activity on the mine the ore-channel
below the 600 ft. level has been riddled with holes of an
inquiring nature, and the ground appears to be one vast
blank. Attention is now being directed to the levels
above 600 ft., but the success so far attained in increasing
the small ore reserves there has been limited. Fortu-
nately for the co., the carbonates have held out wonder-
fully well ; but the failure of the sulphide zone has taxed
this rich and uncertain part of the mine very severely.
Queen Bee, Cobar (N.S.W.), is under a cloud
now that calls have to be paid, and it is overshadowed by
other little mines that are fluttering 1 the market. The
Queen Bee also had a good time in its youth, and sent
away some beautiful parcels of picked ore ; but the rich
upper crust was soon depleted, and the Bee is now
struggling to make 7 per cent, ore pay. The small blast
furnace does good work : for a fortnight’s run 303 tons
were smelted for 58 tons of matte, assaying 36 per
cent, copper. The average output is about 40 tons
a month, and the last sale of blister copper shipped
realised the excellent price of £56 4s. 6d. in
Sydney. Most attention just now is centred on the
deepest level (No. 5), for the north drive at 536 ft. from
the shaft has reached a wide face of ore averaging 9 per
per cent. This improvement, so far north of the shaft,
shows that the lode, if it has to be explored much deeper,
may some of these days require a shaft north of the
present one. And just at present everything favors the
idea that the Queen Bee will be worked to a much
greater depth. • #
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), is contemplating
extensive additions ; in fact, the additions are so exten-
sive that it means practically a new plant. The co. goes
nap on the Moore vacuum slime plant. For economical
working it would be hard to beat: and cyanide manager
A. J. Chappie deserves a word for the success he has
made of the present plant. Shares are gradually creeping
up, but while the new plant is being erected, dividends
will be as scarce as feathers in Hell. It looks as though
some people will presently get out and let others hold the
scrip till the new plant is'up, and then they will come in
again at a much lower price. One rumor that is getting
around to help raise the scrip is that the sands and slimes
are richer than ever, and every month establishes a record
output. But it isn’t mentioned that ore from Mount
Drysdale is being "treated by the Occidental. This may
possibly account for some of the gilt which is liable to
mislead investors.
* * * *
Mount David (N.S.W.) intends sinking the
winch-winze —which has practically taken the place of a
shaft—another lift.below No. 3 level. This mine has had
poor luck since the excitement over the lens of payable
stone that was developed from, this winze. Developments
near the surface and parallel to the old workings have
helped to keep things going, but a small tonnage of low-
grade ore, giving an aggregate yield of about £lOOO per
month, does not pan out dividends on 120,000 shares. It
was hoped that considerable economy would result by sink-
ing the new shaft and opening up deep levels in a systematic
manner ; but these grand ideas require a long purse, and
Mt. David doesn’t own one. The last crushing of 577
tons yielded 193f0z., averaging about 28s. per ton ; in
addition, 441 tons of tailings returned 79£0z., and the
Huntingdon mill gave 16oz. Lumping battery and cya-
nide returns together, the total return from a ton of stone
would be 9£dwt. # #
The Sydney market is now provided with a
litter of Kangiara wild-cats, and a boom is raging that
will hurt somebody before long. The foundation of the
whole business is insecure, not to say rotten. Every-
thing depends on Kangiara, and Kangiara has been
boomed in a ridiculous fashion. A characteristic report
was issued a fortnight or so ago, after the co.’s first
meeting had been held. It was full of hifalutin ; but
somehow or other the accounts were not published.
“ The drive at No. 1 level,” it was officially reported,
“has produced in shipping ore and bn the dumps,
£lB,OOO, a splendid record for only 265 ft. of driving.”
The’ figures were given in more detail in a published
statement: —
Ore Sold to March .31 from No. 1 Level.
Tons.
Copper ore 360 at £l2 0 0= £4320
Lead ore 232 at 916 0= 2273
Copper lead ore 211 at 9 00= 1899
Total 803 Total .. £8492
Ores on Dumps.
Tons.
Copper lead ore.. .. .. 480 at £8 10 0= £4072
Copper lead ore .. .. 850 at 7 0 0= 5950
Copper lead ore .. .. 1000 at 46 0= 4300
Total 2330 Total.. £22,814
Less £4OOO on dumps at time of purchase of pro-
perty •• •• •• £4OOO
Gross values from 265 ft. of driving .. £18,814
Now the “ore account” accompanying the balance-
sheet lodged with the Registrar-General, and made up
also to March 31, contains this one revenue item —“ Ore
sold, in transit, and on surface, £11,223 9s. 3d.” It is
hard to make that and the published accounts square.
Then the balance-sheet shows “ Ore in hand, estimated
value of net returns, £6960 ; ore in transit, ditto, £1999.”
The two items total £8959. According to the official
statement there was over £lB,OOO worth on the dumps at
that date. And £8959 and £lB,OOO won’t agree either.
Take it another way : ‘ 1 Ore sold, in transit,
and on surface, £11,223.” The balance sheet shows ore
on hand and in transit, £8,959. That leaves £2264 to
represent ore sold. Yet the official statement—or, at
least the figures accompanying the official statement —
alleged that £8492 worth of ore had been sold. The only
visible explanation is that £8492 worth of ore (gross
value) has produced only £2264 net; and in that case,
what is the £22,814 on the dumps worth ? Possibly to
account for these extraordinary discrepancies it will be
explained that the figures in the published statements
are gross—that is, have been made to look as large and
impressive as possible—While in the balance sheet
“net returns” are given. But, if so, what excuse
can be offered for filling the public up with
figures which can’t be realised ? It would be much more
to the purpose if the cash position had been stated after
this £8492 worth of ore had been sold. On March 31,
according 1 to the balance-sheet, the cash and bank balance
totalled £55; the liabilities amounted to £4OOB. That is
the thing that counts. Yarns about alleged gross value
of ore in sight of in dumps or anywhere else ate merely
dangerous hifalutin.
The danger is added to by the manner in which
the property is being worked. Small quantities of picked
ore—the last a parcel of 99 tons —are giving high returns.
The 99-ton lot was worth nearly £l6 per ton. But the
whole output was 527 tons ; and what were the other 428
tons worth? Sixteen pounds a ton looks sweet ; but if
only one ton in six is worth anything, then the £l6 has
to be divided by 6. The other five may be worth some-
thing ; but it is very doubtful if they are worth much.
An attempt is to be made to smelt the stuff, and the
failure of the attempt on this class of ore in a small plant
can be predicted with a good deal of certainty,
¥ * * *
The cloud which has been hanging over the
mining industry at Wyalong (N.S.W.) is steadily lifting.
The latest development of importance has taken place at
the True Blue, where, at the 1300 ft. level, 900 ft. south of
shaft, a fair sized body of mineralised ore has been met
with rich in gold. It is supposed to be a continuation of
the mineral shoot worked at the 900 ft, level.
■k * + *
For the four expired months of this year,
£2,197,188 was dug out of the gold-mines in the West.
Tnis is £104,000 less than for the-corresponding term of
1908 ; but there is nothing startling about that, as almost
everyone knows that the output has been steadily shrink-
ing for some years, and is likely to go on doing so. The
production since 1886 totals £87,239,376.
* » ■» *
Rutter Clarke’s dazzling account of the Mararoa
(W.A.) to an interviewer: “There are few mines in the
State that can show so much intrinsic value in compari-
son to market valuation. Stripping and stoping at the
No. 5 level has shown the hanging-wall reef to be much
wider than anticipated. So far, the pay ore at this level
has been proved for a length of 650 ft., and the north face
is still in ore worth between 50s. and 60s. per ton for a
width of 7Jft. This marks the furthest point north that
payable values have been opened up, and there is still
90Uft. of virgin country to be prospected before reaching
the boundary. The co. is now making a net monthly
profit of over £2000.” Nothing, however, is said about
the No. 6 level, nor isa contradiction given to the ominous
report that there is a danger of the mine following in the
footsteps of other Norseman properties, which sickened
at that point and gave up the ghost soon afterwards. In
case these interesting matters have been inadvertently
overlooked, Mr. Clarice is invited to go on from where he
left off.
* * * *
Gwalia South (W.A.) has declared a 2s. divi-
dend (£6300), payable on June 21. By that time the co.
should have about £9OOO in hand, so that £l7OO or there-
abouts will be left in the bank. An eighteenpenny divi-
dend would have done just as well, and the co. would
have had £1575 more in hand. But the Board prefers to
pay away profits almost as soon as they are earned, and
this glaring financial error is bound to land the co. in the
mire in the long run.
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) has put off its
annual meeting for a month or two in order to give the
new general managers (Hooper, Speak and W illiams) time
to prepare and submit their report. Meantime share-
holders may take it for granted that the firm will urge
tha imperative necessity of bringing down the grade to
between 6dwt. and 7dwt. per ton, along with the need to
increase the capacity of the treatment plant as a partial
set-off to this drop.
Associated Northern Co. (W.A.) has had its
attention drawn to Meekatharra, and arrangements have
been made for a preliminary inspection of one or two
shows there. It is unlikely, however, that any deal
will be effected, as nowadays there are more inducements
offered and bigger cuts to be obtained in foreign parts.
* * * *
Great Fingall (W.A.) now treats its slimes by
the vacuum process, and the extra bullion obtained from
this source will make up about half (or possibly more) of
the drop in the mill output caused by another 20 head of
stamps being hung up.
Burbanks Main Lode (W.A.) has resolved on
the score of “economy and efficiency ” to give stoping
and crushing a spell for three months and sink the shaft
to 700 ft. By that time it is expected that the No. 2
deep winze will have reached this point and a connec-
tion will have been made with the shaft. Then, as a
circular issued by the Board triumphantly states, stoping,
crushing and development will be resumed at a reduced
cost. , , *
The old Golden Links, Ltd. (W.A.), held a
shareholders’ meeting in London last month, when the
liquidator presided, and gave the result of his efforts to
realise the assets taken over by him, and not included
in the sale to the present co. in June, 1907. About
147,000 shares were unapplied for in this latter concern,
and, having since disposed of them at a small premium,
the chairman announced his ability to pay a dividend of
2d. per share, with the prospect of a further distribution
at an early date.
* * * *
A Westralian tale. First : “ Stone of good
value is being broken in the Coolgardie Redemption.”
Later: “The crushing now going through the State mill
is expected to average well.” Later still: “The chair-
man informed shareholders at yesterday’s meeting that
30 tons were at grass and 20 tons ready to haul, worth,
according to the manager, loz. per ton. There were also
1000 tons in sight. .. ."Stone showing no gold had assayed
740 z. per ton. ... The manager congratulated share-
holders on beating the w'ater and getting payable stone.”
The very latest: “The Coolgardie Redemption has
cleaned up 77 tons at the Government battery for an
average of 4dwt. 9g'f.” The Bulletin said long ago that
the successful working of the mine depended on every-
one toiling for nothing and no one charging anything,
and this opinion has been borne out by results.
* * * *
The Iron, Steel and Metals Manufacturing Co.
has bawled from the housetops so often that it is a come-
down to find an appeal for cash now wailed out. Last
time the stopgap was in the form of debentures. Now
the word is reconstruction. The old £5 shares, recast in
the puddling furnace, are to come out as £1 paid-ups—a
finished article, to need no more trimming. Then 70,000
new £1 shares are to be issued to make a capital of £100,000;
but the directors ask for subscriptions for only 12,000 of
these. That isn’t dreadful, and if the Co. had demonstrated
the workability of the patent it holds, there would be a
hustle to take them. But the penalty that follow's the
non-fulfilment of long-deferred hopes is doubt, which
has been intensified by so much puff regarding the mar-
vels of the Heskett-Moore process. Now the Indian ex-
periments don’t go ahead for some reason, so the puff
pastry turns out as indigestible hard-bake. Share-
holders also have not kept their fingers out of the share-
market pot—a fact that handicaps the directors in the
co.’s present emergency. #
Peter’s Gully, Heathcote (Vic.), looks like
having another rattle. Old workings have been drained,
ahrl 9fti of stone cut, Of which 3ft. is regarded as “pay-
able.” Whereupon the manager lisps that “it is satis-
fhet n-y after the Expenditure of so much mdney tb be
abie at last to state that there is a reef in the co.’s pro-
perty showing such excellent prospects.” One crosscutis
disclosing 3ft. of 10dwt, stone, another sft, of 6dwt. stuff.
With all this is “a nice clean, regular wall, and a
dig a foot thick.” Also “ the lode is going strong under-
foot.” Nevertheless, a “ great deal more work is neces-
sary before the Ultimate value (of the reef) can be deter-
mined.” After that we can make a present of the remark
that “ at no period in the history of the co, has the mine
shown such promise as at present. ... I have great coh-
fidence that a large and payable body of quartz will be
developed.” As there are 20,000 shares out of 40,000
showing as having been forfeited, there will be a smart
rise if half this sugar retains its sweetness,
* * * *
Ari angry crowd sat down at the Last GhanCe
meeting, Ballarat, to discuss “Geology” Dunn and his
report. “Theorising faddist ” was the mildest anathema
hurled at the man who would not agree that shaft-sink-
ing' is development. There is no need to quarrel with
Dunn. He has seen so many anticlines and synclines in
Victoria, so many mining folds and corrugations round
Ballarat and Bendigo, that the Last Chance folk ought to
have been able to cheer him up with one at their claim. If
they cannot provide one of those departed proofs of prehis-
toric activity, they ought to have known what to expect.
There are enough faults and breaks and indicators at
Ballarat East to puzzle a Chinese gold thief ; but that is
no reason why perspiring shareholders should “jaw ” the
only man who can help them. Their duty is to roll out a
syhcline, and prospect as Dunn wants. Otherwise, all
they have to do is to pay calls instead of relying on the
State milch cow.
* * * *
Windmill Hill, Bendigo, after flopping its sails
to the market breezes for a quarter of a century, has hit
a patch, and so shows upon the dividend list. The
welcome little stranger belongs to the Garden
Gully line, on which it holds a length of 780 ft. A lot of
prospecting has at last led to a fair-sized formation being
got at 2710 ft, and 2810 ft, This make of stone is on the
main Garden Gull}’ line, and is a little west of Jjhe shaft.
The upper portion of the formation above the 2710 ft. level
is not of much account, but, as far as developed, the reef
between that level and 2810 ft. looks like yielding fair
divs. What occasions a shred of doubt as to the
extent of the make of stone is that the best gold has
been showing close to the slide over the bottom level.
The co. has another string to its bow in the extension of
the payable ground that is being worked by Koch’s
Pioneer, next door, for which it. will have to go east of its
shaft. Koch’s Pioneer itself is expected to return to the
div.-list at an early date.
* ’ * * *
Chalk’s No. 3, Oarisbrook (Vic.), has had a bad
year. The mine lies higher up the lead than Brown’s,
Charlotte Plains. It has been about as great a blood-
sucker as any alluvial claim in the State. Capital put
into it tots up to £78,600 and gold to £202,930, or over
£280,000. The return has been a paltry £2500 in divi-
dends. The outgo lias not been in waste or office flams,
Office salaries only run to £2061 for all the years the
co. has been pumping and taking out wash. Directors’
fees don’t aggregate £lOOO, and travelling expenses
notch £1230. But w'ater and poverty of wash have fought
against Chalk’s No. 3. There is still a mile of the lead to
the boundary. The slender chance is that once the
gutter makes north better wash will appear. No. 4 rise
has no payable ground left. At No. 5 the wash is as
tight as a money-lender’s purse, and so won’t drain ;
. and at No 6 the pug and cement would puzzle a bush
lawyer to circumvent. Still, Victorian alluvial men know
how to skin a flea, when it comes to cheap work. So
with only lOdwt. dirt and an expensive claim to handle,
the financial drift for the half-year runs into only a few
hundreds.
* * * *
A lot of talent is being wasted at the Nuggetty
Ajax mine, Daylesford (Vic.). Here is a sample of the
sort of thing that is keeping Ballarat in a simmer of de-
licious expectation : “ Everything is looking well below.
The stone in the rise is showing well. To-day’s breaking
is the best stone I have seen yet. Have started to drive
south on it, and it is good there. There is no change in
the stopes.” Oversold birds cheep out a sorry chirrup
when they hear this kind of shareholders’ lullaby ; but
still they manage an odd note of defiance. Daylesford
itself has not made up its mind about Nuggetty’s.
There the gold is thought to pitch south, but
in No. 4 level gold has been followed for 130 ft. north.
Still there is not very much certainty about this make of
gold. That the manager is driving south from the rise
points rather to his belief that the land of promise lies
that way.
* ■* * *
Comet silver mine, Zeehan (Tas.), had almost
passed out of recollection when someone put pegs into
the Zeehan-Bell lease. Now old Thompson Moore, his son
Capper, and Kozminsky, and a host of old Melbourne
marionettes who follow in their train, dance in the lime-,
light. The Comet is kept alight by the tallow-dips of
tributors. Its shareholders never were great at call-
paying, and they await royalty to resume at the Zeehan-
Bell. Their argument is'that, having spent £5OOO on
that lease in prehistoric days, they ought not to be
hurried over spending another dribble of money. The
prospect is that the Zeehan-Bell will toll in some other
back-yard than that of the Moore crowd.
* * * •
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, crushed 1397
tons for £4708. (The April return was 3294 tons for
£10,797.) Light mineral stone in some of the stopes
accounts for the decline in the yield. No. 5 has stopes
carrying an average of 2ft. of good stone, so this level is
much better than it proved to be on the East Mexican
side of the boundary. The drill is boring in a northerly
direction from No. 10 level, and at 315 ft. has passed
through diorite alternating with granite. This should
prove favorable country if a reef is met with. New Bril-
liant Freehold, which reports a crushing of 351 tons for
£1437, is also interested in this exploratory work. The
crosscut from the N.B.F. shaft measures 226 ft., including
work done in shooting up the bottom of No. 7 in order
to connect the two roadways. Mine surveying is not a
very exact business at Charters Towers. The prospecting 1
work from the shaft should soon make the mine reports
interesting. There appear to be a number of parallel
quartz veins in this locality, and the shaft intersected
more than one promising formation. Some good crush-
ings obtained by tributors at the Golden Alexandra have
revived that stock ; 63 tons gave an average of £l5. The
co. is trying to pick up this shoot in No. 7 level; there is
at present Ift. of stone in the face.
Gilmore’s (N.Q.), which is blessed with 90,000
shares, is struggling into a slightly improved posi-
tion, and some tin stone averaging 12 per cent, tin oxide
has been sent to the mill. A shoot of stone has opened
out below the Dolly Gray 145 ft. level, but the makes are
very irregular.
The Tommy Burns tin mine (N.Q.) is giving
shareholders a run for their money; and those few who
got in at par (£l2 10s.) are likely to get their coin back.
So far £7 per share has been paid in divs., and on April
28 the directors reported that, after distributing the last
£5, there would be £3159 in hand, equal to just about
another £6 per share. (There are 520 shares in the co.)
The surface show on which the co. was floated was a very
fine one ; there is none of that left, but in the bottom of
the quarry there are still good seams of ore, though
most of it needs picking. The idea now is to cut up the
shares ; and people who remember what happened after
the Vulcan did the same thing will probably make a few
more inquiries this time before they plunge. The Tommy
Burns ore may go down and continue rich ; but there are
very few North Queensland tin lodes that do.
* * + *
Gerald Lovell, who once ran the Great Fingall
(W.A.) for 8., M. & Co., and who has just finished bossing
the Great Fitzroy (Q.) for the same firm, is being sent
to Burmah to tackle the ancient silver lead show. Young
James, who had charge of the Fitzroy before Lovell came
along, is said to be returning.
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 33).


&
CHERRY
Peter F. fleering’si
' x BRANDY, 1
J&
“SILVASHEEN” Satia
“ Sllvasheen,” of glorious lustre and sheen, silky to the
touch, and fascinating to the eye. Finish is guaranteed
permanent. In place of genuine satin .for all linings, as
well as fancvwork, “ Silvasheen ” is beyond compare.
LOOK FOR THE NAME.
No matter what you are told, and no matter who tells
it, there is no genuine “ Sllvasheen ” unless it bears the
“ Silvasheen ” name printed on the selvedge. If your
draper hasn’t “Silvasheen” with the name on the
selvedge, don’t be talked into buying a substitute, or you
will he sorry. For your own safety and satisfaction,
insist on the genuine “Silvasheen,” with the name
“ Silvasheen ” stamped along the edge.
Try it in Your New Gown.
When tea was first introduced
into Europe, about a couple of
hundred years ago anyhow,
long before my time it was
sold in chemist’s shops, and was
thought to be a cure for every-
thing from a broken leg to a
pimple on one’s nose—of course,
they didn’t know much about
tea then—to-day, however, it is
thoroughly well known as the
nicest and the most wholesome
of all beverages it stimulates
and brightens one up without
causing the slightest after ill-
effect, and l know of nothing in
my shop that 1 can say the same
thing of.
Chemists are great tea drinkers
—1 suppose it’s because we’ve
always got to have our wits about
us, and because we know there’s
nothing nicer or better that we
can drink. In my own home we
always use the Robur No. 1
Grade, and very nice tea it
is—it has a delightful flavour,
and gives us great satisfaction.
The Chemist.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 25, 1909.
My Dear Abint,—
The weather-clerk showed himself up finely for
a low, disloyal, malignant Dingo on Empire Day ;
and if it.hadn’t been so cold my blood would have
boiled at him. He hid the sun away behind
a bank of raw grey clouds, and directed a
chill wet breeze to blow, and turned on an
irritating, intermittent little drizzle that kept the
temper dry (and hence inflammable), and the feet
damp. The Premier coursed from school to
school, delivering addresses at defenceless young-
lings all the morning, and he wound up his wild
career at the Sydney Cricket Ground, where
thousands Unitedly Demonstrated, and waved
flags, and so held the Empire together by
main force, and gave Kaiser Wilhelm something
to say “ donner” also “ blitzen ” about. 1 think
that a more appropriate name for this great festival
would be “Pneumonia Day.” It occurs at a
climatically uncertain period of the year—at a
time, that is, when not Hunt himself may fore-
cast whether it is going to be cold merely, or cold
and wet, or freezing and as uncompromisingly
dank as the bed of the Murrumbidgee River. The
manoeuvres which the chddren execute in order to
preserve the Empire from annihilation don’t pro-
mote their little circulations. Either they are
compelled to stand in platoons on damp grass and
make gesticulations and patriotic uproar for the
edification of their elders, or they are forced to
stand somewhere else and listen while their
elders gesticulate and flap the air and make patri-
otic uproar for their (the children’s) edification.
However injurious and terrifying this sort of thing
may be to the Empire’s foes, it is safe to say it is bad
business from the viewpoint of the Empire’s kids.
In a country town, two years ago, I passed on
Empire Day the local park (nor will wild Bathurst
burrs drag from me the name of that pleasaunce).
In it the scholars of the district were being haran-
gued by the indigenous notables. It was raining
like Aged Boots. Beneath the grateful shade of the
b md-kiosk stood the notables, and howled world-
defiant words at the dripping infants in their
power. The infants struck me as being more
chilly than Imperialistic. With chattering teeth
they ultimately ground out the National Anthem,
and swam home to mother and a complete change.
I heard, a week later, that some 50 per cent, of
them had gone under to influenza or other germs.
The demonstrating juvenile who doesn’t get some-
thing in the sniffling line, as a result of last
Monday’s Cricket Ground revels, will be a very
waterproof (or mackintosh) child indeed.
I got a second’s side view of Vice-Admiral
Poore, speaking on Empire Day topics at the
Exchange. He had unconsciously struck the atti-
tude of my old friend Raineses the something
overcoming his enemies. His consort, in violet
and grey furs, was present, and if Mrs. Hugh
Dixson and Mrs. Rutter weren’t there also, they
were surely elsewhere flying the Union John and
the Federal Flag, and assisting “to develop a
feeling of pride in the achievements of the British
race,” to quote their circular, interspersed with
songs and recitations. Thousands of children,
looking like wet chickens, went out by tram-loads
to the Cricket Ground, where Messrs. E. W.
O’Sullivan and Bruce Smith gave the damp
offspring lecturettes on patriotism.
The cult of the cigarette is making immense
strides amongst maidens of fashion in the Cold
Land. At the wedding of Lord Dalmeny and
Miss Grosvenor, which occurred last month, one
of the bridegroom’s gifts to the bride was a gold
cigarette case, and, furthermore, “a gorgeously
jewelled gold cigarette case ” was the tribute she
scored from the Prince and Princess of Wales.
Already, so I hear from a globe-trotting friend,
the spectacle of fair dames smoking cigars and
cheroots is quite common in the great Conti-
nental hotels. “ The day ” (as Mr. Bruce Smith
would say) “is not far distant,” in all likelihood,
when no up-to-date woman’s outfit will be held
complete lacking a well-blacked clay pipe.
British society runs after new things like any
Greek. Its latest craze is for “jigsaws.” You
will not find the term “ jigsaw ” resolved in
Webster, orJobson, or any other dictionary, so
let me mention without further parley, preface or
preliminary that it is a generic name for
any sort of puzzle. One Anne Austen has opened
in a fashionable Mayfair street what she calls a
“Jigsaw Exchange.” It is said to be the most
popular resort in London this season. To Anne
Austen’s Exchange flock all of any social import-
ance. There they swap the puzzles which they
have riddled the night before for fresh
ones, and straightway dash wildly off with their
new acquisitions anxiously scrutinising the same
as they dash. Sometimes they dash out so blindly
that they bash against folk coming in, and then
there is a crash. People who are in the country
or yachting belong to the Exchange as they might
to a library—paying up to five guineas for a six
months’ membership—and have the brain-rackers
sent to them by post. The latter run in all
brands, from stiff algebraical problems for assail-
ment by Cabinet Ministers, company promoters,
etc., to dead-easy propositions of the “ Where
was Moses when the light went out ? ” order, for
the benefit of morphinomaniacal duchesses. A
good deal of betting goes on in connection with
the solutions of the puzzles. The difficulty is to
find an honest and reliable referee competent
and willing to give judgment between con-
tending jigsaw solvers. A painful story is
going the rounds of a house-party embroglio
which arose as a result of 14 different guests, male
and female, explaining one puzzle in 14 different
ways. The third footman, who was selected owing
to his brain power to arbitrate in the matter, gave a
decision, and it was afterwards discovered that he
stood in with the winner. Now there is talk of
the entire household being “warned off ” Anne
Austen’s Exchange for the remainder of the
season.
A most" belated storyette of our new State
Governor: On Lord Chelmsford’s arrival at
Brisbane the swearing-in ceremony took place
at Government House, his Ex. wearing; the
Windsor uniform. After the actual swearing-in
part was over, his Ex. was returning thanks for
the kindly welcome he had received, etc., and
during a pause in his speech a childish voice
coming from the gallery said, ‘"Why, it’s
Daddie! ” It was one of the small Chelms-
fords, who till then had never seen her father in
Windsor uniform.
The Misses Saumarez Smith, the late Arch-
bishop’s tall, earnest, musical daughters, flit for
England in August next. They will be regretted
in this hamlet, where, in a quiet way, they did a
heap of kindly and charitable deeds. They in-
tend vacating Bishopscourt almost immediately,
as it has to be done up for the incoming prelate,
whoever he may be.
The lady who was May Yohe, and once pos-
sessed three fine notes in her voice, was at the Aus-
tralia last week. The second time she was here it
was as the wife of Lord Francis Hope. After part-
ing with the Lord she wedded Mr. Strong, a son of
the then Mayor of New York. Now she is Mrs.
Althaus. Her husband is an artistic-looking
party with the air of a sonnet-writer. The all-
conquering dame of hearts is very much changed
in appearance. Yet she is not fat, and her big,
dark eyes are still big and sombre and sleepy.
Once, as Lady F. Hope, she and her lord had a fur-
nished house at Point Piper, and a man, one
of a party that went there to dine, tells me
admiringly of her skill as a cook. At G p.m. the
servants, taking offence at something the lady
said or did, took themselves off. At 6'30 the
diners arrived. Lady May set her Lord to the
making of salads and cocktails, while she herself
cooked and then served the dinner. It was a
capital dinner, with the trail of the expert all over
it. The Althaus pair are en route for South
American ports.
Mrs. Stewart Dawson—some Sydneysiders will
remember her, a pretty young woman who looked
19 although her eldest child was not far off
that age—was seriously broken up in a motor-
hansom-tram smash some time ago, and is only
now recovering after being many months in hos-
pital. Her daughter Bertha, who left here a few
years ago since as a long-haired, short-frocked
youngster, is married and cuddles an infant of her
own. Sydney travellers say that the Stewart
Dawson jewel display in London outblazes Tif-
fany’s.
Last week, during the wettest of wet weather,
hundreds of Sydneysiders paid Bd. in tram-fares
(reckoning from anywhere in King-street) to go
to Clairvaux mansion, in Rose Bay, where the fur-
niture and effects of the late Mrs. Martin, widow
of James Martin, one-time Chief Justice, were on
view, and were, later, auctioned at a two-days’
sale. The catalogues were elegantly got up, and
as thick as a Bible, but much longer ; no one was
allowed into the house without an order, and
large policemen punctuated the principal rooms.
With the exception of the old silver there
were just the same kind of traps (even to
the bottled snake) that your “Akenehi” has
in her humpy, only a million times more
of them. Clairvaux is one of the historic houses
of Sydney. It was designed and occupied by the
late W. 8., Dailey, and there his wife died.
The frescos and bas-reliefs in the ballroom must
have been beautiful before damp stained them
and time cracked them.
The Arundel family—Mr., his two daughters
and their aunt —have been ashore in Sydney
whilst their vessel, the Ocean Queen, swung at
anchor in one of our sunlit coves of peace. Mr.
Arundel is the owner of Ocean Island, in the
Pacific, said to be of enormous value by reason of
its phosphates (to put it in uncultured language—
manures).
A well-known Sydney man whose will was pub-
lished the other day—he died a few weeks back—
had the distinction of having in his lifetime mar-
ried three sisters. One survived him, and she
gets the consolation of £2OOO a year, which (seeing
that the children are also provided for) is almost
enough to keep an elephant off the doorstep, let
alone a wolf. One other older-time Sydney iden-
tity, “Paddy” Larkin, is credited with having
done even more for a family; he mar-
ried three sisters, and after he had
mourned the third he married one of their
younger relations. Adelaide had a some-
what similar experience. One of the well-
known Rounsevell brothers married three sisters,
and used to jocularly observe that he had ear-
marked a fourth—which, by way of a compliment
to the family, was something extra. The recently
deceased Sydney man, by the way, was related to
the desirable sisterhood before he married them—
they were cousins, or something such.
Mr. Ernest Watt fled back to London unex-
pectedly on the Victoria last Saturday. He had
intended to stay and concern himself with the
family’s big shipping business till his absent
brother returned ; but a cable, stating that one of
his children was in bad health, altered all his
plans. He leaves a furnished flat and a brand
new motor to mourn his absence.
The ball in aid of the Hospice for the Dying will
occur on July 7 in the Town Hall. Mrs. Allen
Taylor is president of the organising committee.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson will arrange attractions for
the gallery.
For the above-mentioned charity a kindly Tas-
manienne has sent me a guinea.
If I knew where to find the girl who wrote “ A
Peck of Dirt,” in Wednesday’s Herald I’d call
for her and take her out to have a hot pure
milk. Yet I reckon it would be easier to find
the writer than the pure milk. Her experiences
strike home to every observer, and are enough to
make one swear off all food but apples, eggs and
nuts, and all drink save boiled and filtered water.
The butcher of whom she would have bought
chops was busily licking addressed slips of paper
and sticking them on joints and steaks ; other
shopmen who served her with butter and cakes
moistened their thumbs before selecting the paper
bag in which to put the purchases. The milk boy
held her can with dirty fingers, and the milk
splashed over his neglected and forgotten nails.
She gives other instances of the things that are so
akin to ungodliness, all encountered within the
space of an hour’s marketing and home-coming,
and by that time her appetite was non-existent.
By-and-bye, probably, when the persons who
were born this year are getting old-age pensions,
there will be legislation against insanitary man-
agement of food. The germ-laden dust that
now blows alike on the just and on the unjust
and on the meat that is exposed in butchers’
shops—well, perhaps some invention will keep it
from blowing, or butchers will keep the meat in
dust-proof enclosures. The science master to a
certain British education committee recently
made tests showing that in one and a half pounds
of schoolroom dust there were 1,600,000,000 micro-
organisms. One writing on this matter mentions
roller-skating as a violent means of raising the
dust, and is sorry for the skaters. Most Sydney-
siders are familiar with the barbarity of the
restaurant or tea-room in which they are having
a late lunch or an early afternoon tea being
“swep up” with vigor by the able-bodied
and evidently germ-proof waitress. If the feeder
or eater objects, she is stared at for a faddist or
regarded as merely a disagreeable person. The
room has to be “ swep up,” I suppose, but if there
isn’t a means of doing it without setting a billion
of tubercular, typhoid, influenza, lockjaw and
other unassorted diseases in motion, then it’s time
one were invented. Or let the restaurant be
closed whilst the dust that is more terrible than
an army with banners is in agitation.
In these matters of the handling of milk and
meat and the sweeping-out of restaurants, the
public, as a collective worm, never turns. Now
and then an individual worm protests to the
'papers or from platforms, but the complete or
aggregate worm is deaf, blind, or indifferent.
And if a rare housewife acts differently from the
ruck in her household economy she is an unpopu-
lar missus with her employees. Lately a house-
hold of two awoke to find its new household trea-
sure absent. On her pillow was pinned this
intimation : “ Yous are two mainyacks, with your
boiling the milk and washing the meet. I am
going.” And behold, she had gone.
Some years ago I tried to solve the milk problem
by getting a goat for my very own use, and
milking her myself. She was the worst-tempered
nannie that ever happened, and she gave but two
cupfuls of milk a day. But it took three persons
to get the milk from her. One had to hold her by
the horns, the second had to feed her with bread
and apples to soothe the savage beast, and the
third did the milking. My people thought the
proceedings humorous for just one day, and after
that I used to hire two golf caddies to feed the
brute and hold her horns. That undoubtedly
pure milk came to be more expensive than
sparkling Burgundy, and after two months I
gave the goat to a friend in exchange for two pot
plants. She came back in a week, forced her way
into the garden, broke the pots and ate the plants.
Some goats are as spiteful as some women.
At the recent What To Do With Our Girls
Exhibition (which, by the way, realised some
£500) was an exhibit of pasteurised milk as sold to
consumers in sealed bottles. A number of house-
wives, who didn’t know there was such a thing in
Sydney, ordered it with great enthusiasm. Now
comes the May number of The Science op
Man, reiterating Dr. Alan Carroll’s long-
promulgated theory of the killing of milk
bv pasteurisation. Copenhagen, a city which
seems to have solved the milk problem and
become the “ dairy model of the world,” will have
nothing to do with pasteurised milk, and there is
no eminent authority in the medical world who
believes that pasteurised milk is as good as pure
raw milk. Disease-bearing germs are boiled to
death, and the result is bacillus soup. If Mayor
Allen Taylor would quit Dreadnoughting and
start “policing the cattle for disease,” as the
authorities have done in Copenhagen, he would
be doing a worthier work. Antiseptic milking in
antiseptic stables, and a detective system which
would trace out the footprints of infected milk—
these things would make for the solution of the
population problem by the saving of infant life.
A really model dairy system in Australia might
have saved Dr. Arthur that trip to Europe to
bring out population that is evidently reluctant to
come.
An issue of the London Pelican, recently to
hand, stars an alluring picture of Miss Winnie
Browne, an Australian stage-lady who has made
good in musical comedy and pantomime circles in
the Great Gloom. Five years ago she was playing
a thinking part in Musgrove’s “ Cinderella” pan-
tomime here, and looking very lovely the while.
She was one of the great army of the stage-struck
who donned grease paint and faced the footlights’
trying glare for the fun of the thing. Her hus-
band, a wealthy Melbournite, would have gladly
kept her in gratis affluence, and there was no need
for her to supplement the home crust by manual,
pedal or mental toil, but she heard the boards
a-calling and she hearkened to the call.
Talking of London papers and Australian
damsels the Tatleb, a British weekly that should
know better, has had both its lower extremities
remorselessly dragged by someone in connection
with our deceased tram strike. It printed this
the other day :
During the recent tramway strike in Sydney, many
students of the University became tramway men, and a
corps of society ladies, under the leadership of Mrs.
Gracia Sheldon, acted as volunteer conductors.
Follows a portrait of Gracia. She is a hummer,
not to say a boshter. Her inadequately clothed
back faces the camera, and over a dog-collar of
diamonds, which are priceless unless Parisian, peers
her merry face—the sort that “Ouida,” Dan
O'Connor, and others who are “up” in foreign
tongues wonld term riante— made the more
charming by dozens of immense curls and
a fly-away black hat. Alas, this glad vision
never helped to burst any harbor-side strike!
She lives, doubtless, in the imagination of your
typical local upholder of law and order as the
ideal opponent of Socialism. But she has never
materialised.
Betty Obis McQuade. with her orange-blossoms
still blooming, returns to panto, this week. She
takes Alma Barber’s place in “Jack and Jill.”
Miss Rosina Sydna, daughter of Mr. W. 11.
Pin hey, of Sydney, has recovered her singing
voice after nearly a year’s silence, caused by
influenza. She made a brilliant re-appearance in
Siena lately as Micaela in “Carmen.” Miss
Sydna put in four years’ study, divided between
Marchesi in Paris and Lombardi in Florence.
A Maoriland friend sends me this: “The
late D. M. Luekie, pressman and many
other things in Maoriland, did not, as recently
alleged, write the scare article about a mythical
Russian battleship Kaskowiski that held up the
city of Auckland and levied on the banks. Mr.
George McCulloch Reid, also now deceased, was
the writer of that pleasant jest. Later he “ had ”
some of the public again by the alleged discovery
of the Ark, still in fair preservation, but with all
hands missing and its sea-going certificate lost.
Reid was the first editor of the short-lived Mel-
bourne Standard. Later he went on to the
S. M. Herald ; later still he returned to Auck-
land Herald ; latest of all the genial ex-Presby-
terian parson died. As a postcript he was buried.”
An Act excluding children from bars came into
force last April in England, and already a new
“ profession ” has arisen as a consequence. Men
and women, mostly of the loafer class, “mind ”
the children outside the public-house at a penny a
head while their parents are drinking inside.
This tax is a fearful addition to the cost of two-
penn’orth of beer—no less than 50 percent., in
fact—but if the parent drinks sixpenn’orth of beer
the tax is only about 16 per cent. This furnishes
a good and sufficient reason why the parent should
consume ninepenn’orth of beer. By way of
another device, water troughs are cleaned out,
lined with hay, and utilised as cots for babies
whose mothers and fathers are having a rum and
s’rup at the bar. Some big pubs were arranging
for their own “minders.” The hint won’t be of
much value in Australasia, no matter how prohibi-
tionist we become, for no women drink at bars in
these spaces—or, if they do, the occasions are so
rare as not to count.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
People in Adelaide are wondering whether
when Engineer-in-Chief Monorieff becomes Rail-
ways Commissioner on Julyl he will be able to
maintain amicable relations with himself as chair-
man of the Tramways Trust. At present the
Trust and the Railway Department lead a cat
and dog life, one demanding that the railway
should be removed from King William-street
South, and the other saying it will see the first
person hanged sooner. When two dogs are fight-
ing with cordial hatred, and then a Higher Power
touches a button and suddenly the two dogs
become the same dog and he is fighting himself —
well, how does he feel ? Moncrieff will be able to
answer that question in July.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
©V APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
The Leading House in the Commonwealth for
WEDDING PRESENTS
HIGHEST CLASS GOODS.
INSPECTION
INVITED.
B !!!!!
CATALOGUE
FREE.
SOLID SILVER
Richly Chased Sugar Basin, Cream Jug and Spoons in Case,
£9 10s.
GOODS FORWARDED ON APPROVAL IF DESIRED.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
500 STETSON HATS
at ''Greatly Reduced Prices/'
WE find that, though we have sold a goodly number of these
famous Hats, we are overstocked with the following
sizes, to 6f. This means that if your size is in the
“Range,” that you can buy a “Quality Hat” at a very marked
reduction. Stetson’s Hats are famous the world over, and will out-
wear many ordinary Hats. They are entirely hand-made of the
finest picked Furs, while the shaping, blocking and finishing are
also done by hand. The result is a Hat that expresses the “Highest
Degree of Elegance,” and will retain its shape—even if pressed
right together. In short, Hats that combine “Quality,” “Style,”
and “Life-time Service.”
Stetson Soft Felt.
Very Dressy, Finest Hand-Worked Nutria
Fur; Fast Colors of Light and Dark
Beavers —Black and Chocolate; Wide,
Curled Brims—the popular fashion for
every season ; Grease-Proof Solid Leather
Band with back interlining ; Finest
Corded Silk Band ; the Highest Qualities.
Sizes 63 to 6J only.
Regular Price, 36/- ; now 29/6. Regular Price, 30/- ; now 25/6.
„ „ 32/6; ~ 27/6. „ ~ 27/6; „ 22/6.
ill
Stetson Hard Hats, 21/-
IN JO SHAPES.
In 10 Popular Styles, a Self-conforming Hat that
can be pressed together and still regain its original
shape. In Narrow, Wide,‘Curl. Fiat and Fancy
Brims. The Finest Quality-- Hat made. Sizes,
65 to 6J- only. Regular Price, 25/- ; now Jl/-
Two Handsome Catalogues Free
for COUNTRY and
..CITY RE AD IKS.
Send for Our Large Two-Color General Catalogue “W,”and Our Latest Artistic
Winter Wear Book “ Wa,” showing in colors Stylish Overcoats and Vests,
priced quite lower than elsewhere.
Corner of FITT and
PARK STS., ani
72,-28 GEORGE ST.
THE BEST
Bankstown Building Land
From £l6 10s. a Section.
This land at Bankstown is our Greenaere Park Estate, and we unhesitatingly pro-
nounce it the best land in the district. It adjoins the station, in fact almost surrounds it,
and is the only property on which city water is obtainable. Although Greenaere Park has
only been on the market for a short twenty-six days, already we have sold close up to
£7OOO worth of allotments. Doesn’t that make it pretty clear as to the value offered ?
Business Sites from £57 155.
TERMS FROM
£1 DOWN,
10s. MONTH.
" There are just a few business sites left, and there’s
big money to be made by securing and holding on to
one or more. They are sure to increase in value, and
the wise buyer of to-day must reap a rich harvest.
Then, again, a bit further back are some small farm-
ing blocks. These are priced from £3O each, and are
, excellent value for the money asked.
A Salesman will be on the ground of Greenacre Park every Saturday,
from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m., and at any time our Resident Local Agent,
W. C. Tritton, opposite Station, will drive visitors over the Estate.
OTHER PROPERTIES at BANKSTOWN.
LIVERPOOL ROAD.— acres, close
schools, church, hotel, and store, well
elevated, cleared, £25 acre, £2 down,
£1 month.
CLOSE STATION.-New Cottage, 4
rooms, all conveniences, rusticated
weatherboard, iron roof, built under
architect. Price, £250, deposit £25,
and 15s. week.
CLOSE STATION.—WeII and faithfully
built Brick Cottage of 4 rooms and
conveniences, good position. Price,
£4OO, deposit £4O, and 17s. 6d. week.
LIVERPOOL ROAD. —Ten acres and
Weatherboard Cottage. Place is in
good order, and has tanks, storeroom,
feed room, etc. Price, £350, £25 down,
balance 5 years.
CLOSE STATION. —New Weatherboard
Cottage, just being completed. It has
4 rooms, kitchen, hall, verandah, etc.
Big plot land. Price, £3OO. Terms,
£3O down, 15s. week.
A MODEL ACRE.—This is an acre of
land which has been cultivated by an
expert to show what can be done.
There is a nice New Cottage on it, and
a low price and easy terms are asked.
ARTHUR RSCKARD & CO. LTD.,
848 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Specialists in Real Estate.
uwma
RECITER
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
Written, Illustrated,and Printed in Australia.
Published at a cheap rate to enable the
multitude to buy them.
Three Years
Thunderbolt
! r : fe Vhi
Author
Birtles (F. E.)
“ Steele Rudd ”
De Boos (Chas.)
Book
Lonely Frauds
The Poor Parson
Duncan McClure
(The above two combined)
Sandy’s Selection
Back at Our Selection ...
From Selection to City
For Life
Dad in Politics
(The above two combined)
Settler and Savage
Bloxham (H. K.)
Green (lames)
Dyson (Edward)
Websdale (C. D.)
Pratt (A.)
Barry (A. J.) ...
Spencer (T. E.)
Tighe (Harry)
Cameron (John X.) .
Brasch (Alf.) ...
White (Chas.)
Porter (L. B.)
Jobspn (A. E.)
Adams (A. It.)
Bridges (Roy)
“ The Bulletin ’’
Harbor Guide
Guide to Sydney
... On the Fringe of the Nsver=Never ...
.. The Selector
The Missing Link
.. Seafarers
Three Years with Thunderbolt
Steve Brown’s Bunyip
The Luck of the Native Born
How McDougall Topped the Score ...
The Spring Cleaning
(The above two combined) ...
The Surprising Adventures of Mrs.
McSweeney
Budgeree Ballads
A Man of Sympathy
The Spell of the Bush
Adventures of Mr. Barnes
John Vane, Bushranger
Riverfall
Adventures of Russell Howard
The New Chum
The Barb of an Arrow
Reciter New Edition
With Colored Maps
With Colored Maps
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
AND ALL BRANCHES AND BOOKSELLERS.
&
> ihe .
Surprising
Adventures
'■j-r
<3?
Vra Bridget
V'Swtrfcy;
That LSt'engr


Mm
Q
*1
Wet
“The Shrine
of Fashion!”
Royal
Rustless Corsets.
For easy grace and stylish con-
tour ROYAL “P.D.” CORSETS are
unrivalled. The highest scien-
tific ability, the incomparable
skill of famous French Cor-
setierres, is concentrated into
the perfect modelling of every
shape—and so, to-day, Fashion’s
leading authorities throughout
the world regard them as the
most perfect—giving the figure
the gracefully flowing- lines of
present fashion, with the ut-
most comfort to the wearer.
ROYAL “P.D.” CORSETS are
Rustproof and non-breakabte.
You should always insist on
ROYAL “P.D,” CORSETS. None
genuine without Trade Mark
on every pair.
“Ask Your Draper.”
Trade
V/Lm?
G©
P.D
Mark,
ir
w
The MOST DESIRABLE TYRE
Reliability, durability and efficiency may be considered
as going hand in band as the first considerations in the
manufacture cf the most desirable Motor Tyres and
in no tyres will this trinity of features be found more
pronounced than in the ever-popular Continental variety.
The Continental Co.’s interpretation of the word
“reliability” is “ability to get there,” and not only
to get there, but to get there well; to be certain at the
commencement of a journey that the end is in sight.
CONTINENTAL TYRES
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 24, 1909.
My Dear Yarrik,—
An incomer by the Mooltan tells me that the
wife’s greeting of her Rupert was most gracefully
done. Hubby Rupert went to Adelaide to meet
the family. Wifie tripped down the gangway
looking a Parisian poster. She volunteered a
marital peck at her baronet’s countenance, and
posed with the full stage effect of wedded bliss.
Daughter Phyllis, grown rounder and plumper,
indulged in an un-stagelike hug.
In the extra express that brought the belated
passengers from the yellow-flagged Mooltan the
dining car was an improvised one. At Murray
Bridge something went wrong with the acetylene
lights, and the Hungry fed in darkness until a
kindly soul brought dingy, hard-used kerosene
lamps to accentuate an atmosphere which was the
color of Mr. Johnson. Our Hereditary Knight and
his Knightess and Knightling were in the crowd
round the big blank table. Came the Rupert lady’s
dulcet, Anglicised tones from the shadows : “It is
so-oo quaint—these lamps without even a shade on
them ! ” And the whole hushed car felt anxiously
that the lady would get a shock when she found
tliat God leaves out the moon and stars and sun
in this part of the world without so much as a
rose-colored drape to preserve a baronet’s wife’s
complexion. Rupert, by the way, kept the house
amused with his excellent playing of the part of
paterfamilias. Even in the smoking-car the atmo-
sphere of the piece prevailed, and the Hereditary
One spoke largely and piously of morals—espe-
cially the white and bright and shining morals of
every star and meteor-chip in his theatrical ven-
ture.” Henceforth one will have to think of even
the ’Ooks of ’Olland as a sort of holiness meeting.
The Rupert Clarkes pronounce their girl’s
wedding “quiet,” in deference to the memory of
the late Janet Clarke. The quietness is to con-
sist of merely 100 guests and the frill of two
much-dressed society maids of honor, with small
girls as the extra frill to hold up the quiet length of
bridal train. A Melbourne baker is pulling down,
his shop to make room for the tiers of the pro-
spective bridal cake. The tenantry are polishing
up their kerosene cans for a further tin-tin-abula-i
tion at the affair, which will be so quiet that one
could not hear it above a Wagner opera. By
June 1 all the crackers in China will have reached
Ruperts wood, barring those from the Tibetan
border, which failed, despite the,most desperate
exertions, to arrive at the coast in time.
Justice Isaacs and his handsome wife, gave a gay
two-step on Saturday (22nd), and drank supper;
bumpers to the, health of their elflest daughter,
Margie, who links hands in prospective matri-
monial alliance with Cohen, of the Cohens.. The,
youth is a scion of the Sydney house* of Bernard
Cohen, which is fabulously wealthy, and is be-
gilded all over in most obvious manner. Diamonds
are dashing round even in this early stage. The
three-diamond engagement ring threatens to
blind Miss Margie every time she washes her face,
and prospective pa-in-law has flung hard stones
at her. Therefore, the house of Isaac girt on its
f rocky armor, and brought in its neighbors to two-
step and rejoice..
That icily aristocratic eldest daughter of the
squatting Winter-Irvings, Miss Laura, has
pledged her lily-white hand to an officer of Berlin,
Captain Von Schxxxxxxxxxk, or thereabouts.
His pedigree and standing are something very
military and imposing even in Berlin, where gold-
lace is more common than sac suits.
A Erocky One, who made a boast of never
wearing an outer garment thrice, is beginning to
find that there are other uses for money besides
the purchase of chiffons. The lady, who inherited
pots of affluence from a sporting pa, indulged in the
luxury of a beautiful but expensive husband, whose
expensiveness became such a habit that the twice-
only stunt was knocked nearly into six-sensible-
dresses-a-year. An edition de luxe of a European
jaunt has been melted into the stuff of which
dreams are made. To crown the pretty butterfly
soul’s woes, the pet flat:of a fashionable tavern
which she rented continuously and indefinitely
has gone to the next bidder, wh iletheluxurious ones
have risen to a higher and calmer life in the upper
parts of the same hotel— sans maid, sans frocks, sans
everything. There is an awful moral in this for girls
who have a beautiful husband in view. Ugly and
kind and money-making—that’s the-best sort of.
mate. All the same, one feels very, sorry for the
good-looking couple in this case.
Mrs. Urquhart, that imposing dame whose hus-
band patrols the Melbourne E.S. and A. Bank,
departs for a fly-round in Uncle Ham s Land.
She goes by the Makura on August 2.
The Whiting shoal are preening their fins for a
deep sea dash. • Daughter Claire is to be married
in London in September, and the whole family goes
to watch the knot-tying. Ma flies round in a
new motor, making farewell'calls, and the two
girls break for Sydney to say additional fare-
wells there. The bride-to-be stays with the Harry
Levys, and sister Aileen puts up at Gowan Brae
with the Colonel Burns’ family. Pa, with
his white waistcoat, and Ma, with baby Dorothy,*
hurry to Sydney in pursuit, collect their
other progeny, and board the Makura on August
2. A Yankee-land tour precedes the sacrifice,
which is to be gaudy and gold-laced, as befits a
wedding where the bridegroom is a favored son of
the sea. Lieutenant Chalmers spends his spare
time polishing his buttons for his partin the spec-
tacle.
There is a faint suspicion of a rumor that we
may have another duchess in our land. Her
Grace of Albany murmured in the ear of our Amy
Castles, as in a cup, that she was interested in
Australia, and intended to visit us at an early
date. Miss Castles is evidently “ There ” in Lon-
don sassiety. She sang before a most select few
organised at the request of the Princess Alexander
of Teck, Alexander even persuaded bored Prince
Hubby of Teck to be present, and he roused into a
semblance of enthusiasm about the Voice, and said
“ Haw,” or words to that effect.
The sparkling widow of a Melbourne Judge
is meditating a second plunge into matrimony
with a wealthy squatter of Camperdqwn, the
woolly place where Manifold works are ex-
pounded. The lady is having her second chance
before either of her two pretty daughters has
achieved a first engagement. Just now she is in
Bull’s country with her chicks, looking for
chances to place them before her new orange
blossoms wither. The squatter man owns race-
horses and other expensive pets, and rolls in
wealth—metaphorically speaking. The only per-
sons I ever heard of who really rolled in riches
were two of the Tyson legatees. They were a pair
of wild bush girls, who had read that the right
thing to do with great affluence was to roll.
So they shifted from the bush to Sydney, and col-
lected their property in sovereigns. Next morn-
ing the people in the victual apartment of the
boardinghouse heard strange noises overhead,
and the landlady noticed that the two suddenly-
rich girls were missing at breakfast. She sent up
Belinda, the slavey, to call them. Belinda
couldn’t attract their attention, though she banged
furiously at the door of the bedroom. But she
heard a voice saying: “Now, Sarah, it’s your
turn next.” And she heard another voice say-
ing : “Oh, Jane, I’m so sore I can’t roll any
more.” And then the first voice said: “Non-
sense, Sarah ; we must live up to our position.
We’ve got wealth, and we must roll in it.” So
Belinda, being deeply interested, stood on a chair
and looked through the fanlight, and saw 70,000
sovereigns on the floor, and two nude girls rolling
on the money in turns. They had been at it for
four hours, and were a good deal bruised.
A preliminary glance at Will Dyson’s show of
caricatures at Furlong’s Studios evidenced that
that solemn young man possesses a cunning and a
skilful hand. Most of his caricatures are almost
unnerving in their reality—especially the gay, dis-
tinguished bunch of politicians that figured-in The
Lone Hand some time ago. The most impressive
picture is that of little Willie Kelly pushing
alertly through the atmosphere in all his
sartorial splendor; and the most amusing,
George Houstoun Reid, standing with the
dismal pathos of a prehistoric mammal.
Artist Alex. Colquhoun glowers from a little
dark frame. Poet Hugh McCrae sticks up like a
beautiful penholder just near by, and the elegant
waddle of politician Dugald Thomson is perceived
a few frames away. Some of the theatrical cari-
catures, including two notable .ones of actors
Dunbar and Geo. Bryant, punctuate the immense
plot of more ambitious efforts, and one or two pic-
tures of a mystical or spookish significance are
perceived here and there.
Allan’s have just published three passionate
love songlets, words and music by Douglas
Hamilton, late of the Frank They
are titled : “Till the Dawn,” “When Fades the
Light,” and “ Lalji ” ; the latter being a serenade
to a supposititious Indian lady, who is invited to
creep very softly to the Gates of Love, where the
singer is waiting to soothe her under the Dream-
land Tree. Seeing Douglas Hamilton in farcical
comedy—he was the Isaac Isaacson of “When
Knights Were Bold ” and the starchy Colonel who
paired off with Charley s real aunt from Brazil —
seeing him in his mummer capacity, one never
would suspect him of such exceeding amorousness
in his drawing-room ballads. . They are not works
of musical pretension, but they run on safe lines
in a pleasant melodious style. And they are.
selling freely enough. There is.always a market
for little love songs that tickle the general ear,
and somehow the name of “ Douglas Hamilton ”
on the wrapper inspires. confidence. It looks so
like the familiar name of a popular composer.
Most people think they have heard it a hundred
times already in connection with serenades and
lullabies, but seemingly they didn’t,, unless it
came to them in their slumbers under the Dream-
land Tree.
The Try Society had, as a decoration to back up
its dance, a Dreadnought, large size, and decked
with lighted portholes.till it looked.like a hotel at
sea. It had its uses. The shadows thrown back-
ward from the hulk made cosy corners for Harold
and Ethelwvnda after the stress of the Scullery
Lancers. All the decorations were bloodthirsty ;
cutlasses and swords and guns, even cannon,
bristled round the room. If a Waterloo warning;
had happened in the middle of the frivolity—the
same as it did at Brussels when there was a sound
of cussedness by night—the community would at
least have been armed.
It was a charity ball, and one degree less than
vice-regal. This means that the official sets were
bulwarked with mayoral pomp and a top-dressing
of local knight and his dame. The frisk brought
in a penny or two for the civilisation of the street
boy.
A wealthy foreign bachelor, who deals in rich;
dress material, and spends his spare time studying
the female species of butterfly who increases the
demand for the fabric, is suffering from severe de-
pression since the departure of his most recent
charmer; she was a dark-haired and dimpled
high kicker of the “’Ook” crowd. Suppers are
“ off,” and the moonlit spins of the belated motor
are a back number. The chauffeur finds his work
limited to a business sprint up the city and down
—nor need he freeze in the arc of leather
trappings and acetylene light for frigid hours
after the day is done. A placard hangs out,
“Wanted, a new comedy co.” Like Hoggen-
lieimer, he’s rich. Like Hoggenheimer, he is bored
in the morning, bored in the afternoon, and bored
at night. Always bored.
Pretty Boy Bottomley.-of the ’Oook of ’Ollarnd
crowd, goes back to England instead of touring
Maoriland with the company. He sheds tears
from his violet eyes all over the tea tables at the
Vienna, saying farewell' (in separate lots) to the
girls of the affluent suburbs who have made him a
cult.
Miss Maggie Moore lias-become the divinity of
a band of Mongolians. The other evening they
presented her with a little gift—a package of
Chinese fodder, comprising sugarcane, preserved
ginger, chow-chow, two pairs of fowls, and sun-
dries. The museum was. strongly wrapped up.
and addressed in a deluge of hieroglyphics to
“ Mag Mooire.”
Evangelistical Alexander has lost one corps of
followers that rolled up strongly to his last Aus-
tralian mission. Then Aleck was a bachelor,
magnetic and soulful, and a permanent guard of
Toorakian girl dogged his meetings. Now Aleck’s
wife travels with him. She was Miss Helen
Cadbury, whose pa makes chocolates and great
wealth." The Yankee evangelist is business-like
in the selection of a rich wife.
One particular type of woman in Melbourne is
so busy being Saved that the house is going to
pot —also the children’s mending is horribly out
of hand, and hubby’s digestion is driving him to
words that the Revivalists would assuredly con-
demn. At the midday meeting (meant for busy
men who wish to take heed of less material
matters in their scrapped food hour) the seats are
packed with women who come early and bring
their lunch, and feed in the waiting time on juicy
morsels of gossip or pious emotion. A cynical
chair-duster and caretaker remarked that the
same pack of women turn up every time, well
fortified with the cold-tea bottle and the
übiquitous sandwich.
Chapman is a magnetic speaker. He is a judge
of humans. He uses all the small mechanical
effects known to a good mummer. His voice is a
command. “Stand up!” or “Sit down!” he
barks at the house with immediate result as if at
drill. His mouth shuts tight in a straight line
over his bulldog jaw. He is keen, and knows
when he’s got ■'em. A critic, seated too near the
platform foot, watched the man expend untold
energy over the huge mass of audience, then drop
exhausted into a chair to mop his brow. “ Shake
’em up a bit,” he muttered to conductor Alex-
ander, “I’m clean tuckered.” And Alexander
came up to his cue, and wakened a cyclonic
wreathing of electric currents by the sheer force
of 4000 voices singing in one tremendous chorus.
The choir leaders are chosen with a general seye.
The tenor could probably draw £4O a week with
,T. 0. Williamson, and become a matinee idol into,
the bargain. His voice is fetching, and far-reach-
ing, and perfectly trained. There are several of
these satellite young men on the platform—all
with voices with a note in them. Also they are.
Beautiful Young Men of the Gibson type, and
extremely well dressed, except about the feet,
with varnished, parted hair, and sunrise socks.
Though Americans are notably well shod, these.
Beauty Men have the bulbous feet and wobbly
boots that invariably mark the Sky and the
young man of religious tendencies. It s curious,
how pietists peter out about the feet.
It is an interesting theatrical co., this of Chap-
man and Alexander. There are eighteen
in all, and they are all on the platform —
the principals and their wives, and the
warbling satellites and their bird-of-paradise.
wives. There are one or two small boys in the
co. The American Small Boy is a species apart
—unique. He is smart, intelligent above the
average small boy, a mischief-maker and a howl-
ing nuisance. Chapman can keep 4000 people
under his eye —easy. He often uses cheap,
mechanical effects; but a ■ glance round the hall
shows almost every pair of eyes cilucd to him—or
his hands—hypnotically. But if Chapman requires,
his eye for the Small Boy, how can he hypnotise
the audience with it? Arid if he doesn’t hypnotise
the audience the profits will slump.
The firm of Tait Brothers and Sons boasts a.
new partner. Brother James Nevin cables from
London the arrival of a son. Mrs. James Nevin
was Bess Norris, the noted miniature painter,
who left Australia to pursue Art with flying feet,
in London.
Either Nellie Stewart is lame or Nell Gwynne .
wears too high heels. They are wonderful, bro-
caded, buckled shoes that match each marvellous
gown, but.if they were a size larger, or if a quarter
of a mile were taken off the heels, it might prevent
a deformed toddle like the canter of a Chinese
empress.
With the browning of the leaf on the imported
tree—the one which is a' skeleton in the winter—
and the breath of autumn asserting itself in the
air, the Hunt Club wakes up, says “Tally ho,”
and then falls violently off its horse. The first
meet of the Melbourne Hounds this season will be
at Oaldeigh Station on Saturday (29th), and . the
hour, is two. Tea at the finish will be at The
Kennels, South Oakleigh.
Blague rats are even following Cupid. The
postal authorities are heavily taxing wedding-
cake, in despair of being able to keep up with the
mending of gnawed mailbags. _ The, newly-
weds send pieces of their indigestible confection-
ery for gushing maids to dream upon. Several
tons of cake in a year make the mailbags a re-
liable lunch counter for the plaguey rat, and
attract him where hot love letters, or business
circulars, or threats, from duns offer but dry
gnawing. Mrs. Newly-wed’s mother and sisters
will cull the list considerably when the tariff is
raised to Is. a time.
Erom “Rosna,” who dwelleth by the castled
Torrens river :
His Ex. of South Australia.has been ill, and so he has
rested from his labors in opening things and chajrm aiming
movements. Nevertheless and notwithstanding, there
was another At Home at the Residence on Tuesday eve,
when Herself and the twin girls shook the hand of a
small and select community and its lawful wife. The
frivol is one of several half-informal affairs of the kind.
The invitations were sent broadcast over the land only a
few days before the event, as a species of surprise packet.
The Ministry and its bride were present, also four
separate and distinct families of Ayers, several branches
of the Giles tree, and the inevitable others-too-numerous-
to-mention. Her Ex. is so stately and graceful, that it is
a joy to regard her. Also she has that indefinable thing
called charm, which has neither length, breadth, depth,
thickness nor diagonal measurement, yet is, withal, a
precious possession and worth many talents, both of
silver and gold, as well as all the notes ever issued by the
Commercial Bank of Jerusalem.
The Queen Adelaide Club for women approaches com-
pletion, and will be thrown open early in July. It
threatens to baa big success, and'Mrs. Box, to whose
energies Adelaide owes the institution, has a fine com-
mittee behind her. ■ The directors are Lancelot Stirling,
J. W. Bakewell, E. W. Hawker and Mrs. Box. The last-
named is chief director as well as secretary and manager.
The charming Mrs. Jim Anderson and Miss Addie Baker
are hon. secs, pro tem., and the copiroittee includes the
Way dame, Mrs. Robert Rymill, Mrs. Edmund Bowman,
Mrs. Leonard Bakewell, and some 19 or'2o more equally
well-known and soundly financial folk. The club house
is the late Dr. Cawley’s old place, which is being specially
and beauteously bedecked and furnished. There will be
a dining-room, two reception-rooms, a silence-room (just
to prove that women can be silent!) a strangers’-room,
and slumbering accommodation for some 11 members.
All the furniture,is to he strictly home grown. The sub-
scription is a modest and retiring £2 2s. Once the club
is opened members may breakfast, lunch, tea, dine and
sup there. That obscure and unimportant animal called
man can go there, provided a member introduces him.
The authorities intend to affiliate with the Alexandra
Club, Melbourne ; also, the Ladies’Empire Club, and the
Austral Club in Britain ;>so straying members can inter-
change, so to speak.
There was an impromptu feature of the Cruelty to
Animals meeting that couldn’t have been more successful
if it had been specially rehearsed. Just as Mrs. Ennis
was reading to an attentive multitude her report on the
four-footed or feathered brethren and sisterhood, a
dog walked up the hall, mounted the platform, and stood
before her wagging his tail with great applause. . He was
a delegate from the Canine Union or the Order of Gay
Dogs or something, and I’m sure he gave Mrs. Ennis some
inside information about cruelty to dogs, because I saw
him talking to her for a long time. We are expecting
Ada Crossley and her medical husband had nearly a
week with the parental Mueckesat Medindie before sailing
hack to England. She had come for a rest, so little did
the gaping outer world see of her. The company de-
parted by the Seydlitz on Friday, a frilly little party
weeping into its lace hanky at" the Outer Harbor the
while. Adelaide was counting on another Crossley con-
cert, and it is wearing an injured countenance because it
didn’t get one.
The eldest nice daughter of a musical family, Florence
Jurs, has been badly injured by an arrow. Her case
is said to be hopeless. The person who discharged
the missile, one Cupid, is still at large, and the
police have no information to offer. Mr. Montague White,
of somewhere in Queensland, is said to have instigated
the outrage. The police have no information to offer
about him either.
That pretty blonde Melbourne girl, Uni Russell, and her
mother came into Adelaide for a brief day last week on
their way home after putting a fourteen months’girdle
round the old globe. The little girl was looking very
bright and well. Site crowded any quantity of fun into
her trip, studied some art in the Latin quarter of Paris,
had her voice inspected and fixed up in Milan, saw some
more art by Mr. da Vinci and other famous Italian corpses,
climbed up Switzerland and Scotland, looked at Killarney
to see whether the bards spoke the truth about it, and
went to the theatre every day. Mr. Russell came over
from Melbourne to meet them and escort them home in
triumph.
They have been blowing things up at our ’Varsity. Pro-
fessor Kerr Grant was making oxygen gas out of potas-
sium of axtzylprnikuvxqr—l think that is correct —when
a tube became detached, a retort overturned, and there
were the two ends and the middle of the father of a burst
up. The professor had the bad luck to be burned rather
severely, and has gone to North Adelaide Hospital for
repairs.
News has just arrived from London of the death from
meningitis,of Dr. Archie Miller. He was a clever South
Australian boy—only son of the Melville Millers, of North
Adelaide—and went to Britain some years ago to finish
bis medical course at Edinburgh. 'He was only 26, and
had just begun a course of study of special diseases in
the London Central Hospital.
On Monday, which is after I write this, but before it
reaches the indignity of p: int, the celebrities who govern
the Queen Victoria Home had (or were to have) a recep-
tion and promenade concert in the Town Hall. Lady
Bosanquet philanthropically lent herself (or is going to
lend herself—just as you look at it) and her hand to be
warmly shaken by many people. The affair is going to
come off with great success which, seeing that it
happened last Monday (unless something prevented it) is
a hard saying and difficult to understand. But when you
write on Saturday for a remote paper which comes out on
Thursday your tenses grow mixed.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


t
5 1
i
%M
imm i
ADULTS.twotofour was
CHILDREN, A HALF TO A
WHOLE PILL DISSOLVED
IN SWEETENED WATER.
la/ce btfon, retiring.
INDIAN ROOT
p
§*» jff
Sift:*
f 1#
m
n
% '> :: - JM
i)
0
■
LA
si
■
t
N
P
Ji'i
A Pill
occasionally
■assures
I Good
I Health"
WOMEN’S BEST FRIEND.
Vl V
OMEN who value health should never be without Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Nurses and Doctors
recommend them, and thousands of women who now enjoy health and strength owe their rescue to
this wonderful remedy. Women in every sphere of life, of every age, and every condition, have proved
the wonderful curative and effective influences of these pills. Years ago pills were the medicine of the poor
only. To-dav the efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills to overcome the common ailments, and restore health
arid happiness to sick and ailing women, has convinced not only the working section of the population, but the
wives and daughters of the more wealthy professional and independent classes that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are woman’s best friend. They purify -the Blood, giving the skin a clear and beautiful appearance, and
keep the Bowels, Liver, and Kidneys in perfect working order.
When Nature, throughout her intricate workings, requires assistance, no safer medicine, no more beneficial
helper, an ill be found than Dr. Morse’s Indian Loot Pills.
ial
J


Wherever you go you will find
Laxo-Tonie Pills curing' mankind.
Their fame is no less
Than that they possess
Every virtue, with cheapness combined.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, l<Ji-d. and Is. Gd.*
Walter Bradley & Go.
284 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Margaret Street.
Artistic Wfell-Made Furniture.
Superior Bedroom Suites, in most
.. artistic designs.
Choice Dining Hoorn Suites, with
latest padded movable seats.
luxurious Upholstered Goods.
; Chesterfields, Lounges, Easy Chairs.
lowest Quotations for Gash.
HEART PRESSURE.
The “Bottomless Pit” is usually the pit of the
dyspeptic’s stomach. What agony and tortureindi-
gestion can produce. By impeding the circulation
of the blood and clogging the system with poisonous
waste, it frequently affects the heart, giving rise
to pressure, palpitation, and other symptoms.
Many of the disorders of the body can be traced
to an imperfect digestion. Laugh at your symp-
toms ! Pooh-pooh them out of existence. Take
a dose of FI’ANZ JOSEF Natural Aperient
Water before breakfast. It will clear the body of
accumulated poisons, send the blood coursing
joyously through the body, and relieve not only
your heart pressure, but a score of other imagi-
nary diseases. Franz Josef Springs, Budapest.*
It was Lady Matilda de Mure
Fell in love with her father’s chauffeur,
Through a cold
That she caught 1
As she ought,
With forethought
He had brought
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis/’ hy C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through Thk Lone Hand. Forecasting
a “ peaceful ” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
ACHING BURNINC
RHEUMATISM.
There is a way to Cure
the Complaint.
This Man had Rheumatism Badly
But was Cured After Suffering
for Two Years.
Thei’e’s a way to cure rheumatism. There sno
need for men and women who have red, swollen
joints and aching limbs to despair, if they set
about getting rid of their complaint in the right
way. Of course the right way to cure rheumatism
is to clear out of the system the cause of the
trouble. The pains and swollen joints are merely
symptoms of the cause which is in the blood.
Easing the pain with poultices and liniments will
not driye out the cause. The best medical authori-
ties agree that acid in the blood is the cause of
rheumatism. That’s why there have been so
many cures of the complaint by Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. They actually renew and revitalise
the blood, driving out the cause of the trouble.
That is why they are the right cure for rheu-
matism.
A remarkable instance of the value of Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills in this disease is shown in
the cure of Mr. James Walker Peacock, St. John
Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, who says:—“l had
rheumatism off and on for about two years. I
was attacked from the neck to both hips, across
the shoulders and down the arms. Every now
and then I’d have to knock off work and lay up at
home. At times I could hardly move in bed, at
other times I could not turn my head nor move
my arms. It was a great trouble for me to lac<‘
my boots; bending at all gave me great pain. I
was rubbed with turpentine and various lini-
ments but I only got ease for a time. Every rub-
bing made the parts so tender that I could not
bear anyone to come near me after each one.
The least movement and I suffered fearfully. I
could only walk very slowly, and very often I was
so stiff that it was all I could do to drag myself
along. I never knew when an attack was going
to take me. Perhaps I’d go to bed all right and
wake up in the morning practically unable to
move. I’d be like this for days before I’d get a
little ease. I might get a sudden bout when
working’ and have to come home and take to my
bed. My mates can tell you how I couldn t get
my coat on with the pain; I had to get one of
them to just throw it across my shoulders. Often
the pain was so fierce that it took me all my time
to keep from singing out with it. I went off my
food completely and lost weight fast. I went to
a doctor and took his medicines but I can t say
that I got much better. A friend of mine in New
Zealand told me to give Dr. Williams Pink Pills
a trial. I did, and it was marvellous the way
thev cured me, and they cured me for good, too,
for I have never had a return, of the rheumatism
since. My health in general is excellent.”
It is important to get Dr. Williams I ink Pills
and to fight shy of anything offered as “just as
good.” The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia Ltd., Sydney, will send them direct for
2s. 9d. per box, G boxes for 15s. 3d., if you have
trouble m getting the genuine.*
This Elastic Truss
Elastic S
Truss—
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.). SYDNEY.
also at Melbourne.
POLITCAL
POINTS
Victorian Judges are making very free use
of the indeterminate sentence. During one re-
cent week no less than eight men were declared
habitual criminals and ordered to be detained in-
definitely. Very little discrimination appears to
he made, but the “ Kathleen Mavourneen ” is
handed out to all and sundry according to the
state of the; judge’s liver. Included in the last
hatch of “ indeterminates ” were two shop-
breakers, a confidence-trickster and a varied
assortment of sneak-thieves. One old chap cheer-
fully announced his intention of killing a warder
with a view to getting out earlier.
“ Minko ” writes
The Brisbane daily press has evolved, out of its own
journalistic originality, an entirely new and grandilo-
quent phrase, which can give the old gag about “ Capital
leaving the country ” 50yds, start and then race it for the
beer-monev and win dead easy.
In referring to each batch of male immigrants the
dailies remark, “ These men are all in possession of
capital and are of the right class,” quite forgetting that
they have declared for years that no money at all is
coming in, and that what capital is already here has its
Matilda packed and vaguely labelled “ Furrin parts.”
Recently on a journey along the border from Mungindi
to Goondiwindi I encountered 14 of the “right class” in
four days. Some had a cheap paper-leather portsanmiy
hung on a stick over the shoulder ; others had small tin
boxes, and two had their mutual kit slung- on a pole
supported at each end by half the combine.
They were all desirous of getting “ wark,” and three
stations in South Queensland have already replaced their
old hands (who got £1 a week and double rations) by men
content with 15s. and “ eight, two and a quarter,” Pro-
bably the ousted hands have gone with their accumu-
lated wealth to Europe for a vacation. The news that a
new £30,000 hotel is in course of erection at Nice lends
color to this idea.
Two Victorian councils lately wearied of
the Murray Government’s procrastination, and
notified that mummy that if it didn’t immediately
repair the State schools at Emerald and Newbold,
near Cobden, they would send their officers to
condemn the buildings forthwith, and the Depart-
ment could go hang. The average shire council
seldom hurries, hut when it heard that children
were being forced to sit in chill, fireless rooms
down the chimneys of which water poured every
time rain fell, it was felt necessary to do some-
thing. The schools will probably he closed, Mur-
ray and co. being at present too busy trying to
finance the money for a Dreadnought.
The Victorian Government is advertising
throughout Australia for a man unlike Johnson to
take the job of third railway commissioner. The
ad. is genuine, and there is no pal of either
Murray or Baillieu cut or dried for the billet.
Above all thimrs, an electrical engineer is needed
Badly to help Kanuck Tait (or is he “Blue-Nose ”
Ta.it) and Fitzpatrick to understand the value of
electricity as a motive power. The Melbourne
tramway concession expires in 1916, and it is
almost certain that the Victorian Government
will take over and electrify the trams, and run
them for the behoof of the municipalities. There-
fore Victoria is calling loudly for a good electrical
railway commissioner.
The Labor party in S.A., taught by the
heavy defeat of its man in the recent Legislative
Council contest for the Central district, is re-
considering its decision to run a candidate against
Treasurer (Peake at the general election next
Match. Peake, whose help made it possible for
Tom Price to form his Cabinet, sits for a South-
eastern district with two Labor members as col-
leagues, and has always headed the poll. If he
turned crusty and induced two Liberals to run with
him for the constituency, they might very well
sweep the poll and knock out both the present
Labor men., There is good reason therefore for
the party to pause and think.
The superabundant folly of Private Enter-
prise gets a further showing up over the matter
of the 2001 b. cornsack. Not only are the 200ib.
bags relatively cheaper than the old abomina-
tions, but the farmer saves expense hv the
additional ease in handling; and the other day
a wheat exporter told Customs Minister Tudor
that the waste of grain is nothing like what it
was, owing to the smaller hags being less liable
to hurst. And yet, though the action of the
Commonwealth has advantaged the country in
every way, not, one of the blathering btate
Ministries has had the honesty to fulfil its
promise to stop the use of the large hags by im-
posing a prohibitive railway freight on them.
These were the first sentences of an article
in the S. M. Herald (May 19) headed “Fleets in
the Air "
But yesterday a Dreadnought might have stood against
the world. To-morrow, it seems, there will be none so
poor to do him reverence.
It seems a fairly good reason for not subscribing to
the Herald’s fund for the purchase of the allegedly
antiquated Beggar of the Sea. But truly the airship
is arriving. A recent cablegram told how a Grerman
airship passenger service between the principal
cities of the empire is to be at work next year.
' And another item of news set forth that Britain is
much worried: at the persistent fashion in which
airships, believed' to he German, wander about its
eastern coasts at night for purposes that are un-
known but are suspected of being nefarious.
JUST TOTTERING.
THE KID: “ Go on, Alfred; I WANT TO SEETHE
SPLASH!”
Thus N.S.W. Premier Wade to Sydney
Deform Conference
When the Labor party said the Government was not
going fast enough, even with their vaunted land-tax all
they could hope to do would be to release large areas of
privately-owned property. To increase the number of
settlers the Labor party themselves would be forced to go
back to the Government policy of making it illegal for
these areas to slip back, and aggregate into large estates.
Now why would the Labor party “ be forced to go
back to the Government policy,” etc. ? •If the
progressive land-tax made large estates impossible
in the first instance—and Wade admits it would—
why wouldn’t it also keep them impossible?
Wade seems to think that if a man owned, say,
£lOO,OOO worth of land, he couldn’t afford to hold
it, because the progressive land-tax would hit
him ; but if he cut the area up into small holdings,
sold it, and then bought it back, the tax wouldn’t
trouble him. It’s a queer theory.
It has been practically arranged that J.
Bull and his Monkey ally are to hold a joint
Exhibition in London some time towards the end
of next year. The show ought to have its novel
points. The whole thing might be arranged in
two rows : on one side the things that Bull makes,
and on the other side the same things that the
Monkey copies—trade marks and all.
DREADNOUGHT FINANCE.
AUSTRALIA (to John Bull): “Look 'ere. old
feller, you've been real good to me all my life.
Lend us a bob an' I'll shout for yer."
Victoria’s Small Holdings manager. Mal-
colm, lately told a Oab.net sub-committee tnat
Agent-General Taverner had sent out tive men
who had no knowledge of farming, and were
absolutely useless as settlers. It looked as if
Taverner had blundered, till inquiry showed that
the tive were the very men Australia needs most
—discharged mechanics from Woolwich arsenal.
But there is no arsenal here waiting to employ
them, so Taverner’s well-meant hint is wasted.
Candid confession of N.S.W. Lands Minis-
ter Moore, at the Liberal and Deform Conference
in Sydney last week :
Whatever we propose, the Labor party is sure to go
one better.
And at the same conference Moore’s ex-chief,
Carruthers, also confessed
With Protection we are going to have more factories.
With Labor always offering something better, and
Protection always providing more factories and
more employment, no wonder the old Freetrade
rump is moaning for “fusion,” and begging
Deakin or somebody to take it under his umbrella
and let it in out of the wet and the cold.
“ Snell ” : The Bulletin has published a
complaint re the Melbourne health authorities,
who permit Brighton market gardeners
to tote edible vegetables in the carts with
which they naul the city’s stable products
out of town. But these authorities have
enacted Draconian precautions in one re-
spect; the gardeners are prohibited by
law from carrying fruit-cases on the loads
of manure without intervening bags or
wraps of some kind. The result seems to
be regarded as satisfactory, but when the
same bags have intervened a few score
times the choice between the manure and
the bag is all in favor of the manure. Any-
how, the idea that the nimble germ can
be fended off by a casual damaged spud
bag or cabbage sack is a sample of fatuity
which encourages the belief that the Board
of Health is so called because of the timber-
in its head.
The Vic. Murray Government has
issued a programme for the forthcoming
session, and the sheet comprises 10 items.
They are mostly small matters, like the
Geelong Sewerage Bill, the Yarra River-
Traffic Control Bill, the Queen Victoria
Hospital Land Bill, and the Essendoti
Tramway Extension Bill; but, standing at
the head of the array, like a mastodon
leading a column of flies, is the Land Tax
Bill. It is understood that Murray’s crowd
is to stand or fall over this Bill; but that
doesn’t matter much. The Assembly will
probably pass it; so Murray will stand.
Then the House of Rich Landlords will
assuredly throw it out; but as Murray has
no control over the Landlords, it would be
absurd and superfluous to fall.
“ Some people think it a wise policy to set
up barriers between nations,” said George Reid
in a lofty and pitying strain the other night while
lecturing at Sydney University. And some
people -go even further than that and set up
barriers between individuals. It is in pursuit of
that nefarious policy that G. Reid locks his front
door at night. Presumably the front door is a
barrier. If it isn’t, what’s the use of it?
According to Sydney Telegraph (19/s’/’09):
Jaunty elimination of the public as a possible factor in
the problem of the political future has characterised the
portentous coalition negotiations of the past week or
two.
And, come to think of it, a fairly “jaunty
elimination” (which is a good expression) Ims
characterised those Dreadnought papers and poli-
ticians which propose to offer the British Govern-
ment about £2,000.000 of the people’s money with-
out the slightest pretence of asking the people’s
consent. They are in the position of the thieving
cashier who jauntily eliminates his employer when
he helps himself to the cash.
Victoria’s land-hungry citizens are quit-
ting now, not by ones and twos, but in droves.
No less than 45 families, comprising 200 indivi-
duals, will presently depart in one lot from the
hotbed of the land-grabber for Bananaland, where
they have taken up blocks running from 1280 to 2560
acres in the Moonie River district. As with those
who have gone before them, these Murray Staters
would prefer to stop at home, but the Rich
Landlord and the Government drive
them out, the former by locking up his
freehold lands, and the latter by leasing
to tiie same Rich Landlord huge areas of
Crown lands for nothing, instead of keep-
ing them for the small settler. The State
Government has consistently refused to do
anything to stop this steady obliteration
of the people, and when the Common-
wealth proposes to do something there is
a shriek to the effect that it wasn’t “ con-
templated.”
Observe an instance of the farcical
nature of Victoria’s land settlement
policy ! Right alongside the Restdown
Estate, near Rochester, about the acquir-
ing of which the lamentable Bent made
a song, lies Burrewang Park. Burrewang,
with a frontage of 12 miles to the main
line, supports one family, where 100
should make a living. No visible effort
has been made to settle this desirable
block—the owner wants too much ; but
for rating purposes it is valued at just one
third the figure at which the Restdown
settlers’ land is valued next door. As
Customs Minister Tudor -lately said, one
reason for a Federal land-tax is that no
similar tax and no effective scheme of
settlement can ever be got through the
Vic. House of Rich Landlords. Though
Deakin may fret about the details, and
his friends Fairbairn and Sledger rave
about the infringement of State rights,
that tax has got to come if ever the locked-
up lands of Australia are to be forced open.
Some land agents now style themselves
“land law experts.” Yet the profession smells
the same as ever.
TORKIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A voice : Are you going to support Fisher? (Applause
and laughter.)
Mr. Deakin : It will be my endeavor in the course of the
next 50 minutes to answer that question.-h Newspaper
report.
Ho, the old Egyptian people,
In the ages long ago,
They understood the value
Of a simple “ Yes ” or “ No ” ;
They knoo the ’ole ’ipocrisy
Of s.niles an’ nods an’ winks,
An’ they built a stony sermon
In the figger of a Sphinx.
An’ that stone ’as kep’ on preachin’,
Through these many thousan’ years,
An entertainin’ lecture
Into ev’rv nation’s ears.
You kin arsk it any question
On a subjec’ great or small,
An’, as it can’t say “ Yes ” or “ Ne,”
It don’t reply at all.
An’ that’s the simple lesson
It’s intended to convey ;
For, though it isn’t gassin’,
You kin plainly ’ear it say :
“ Torkin’, forkin’ ! Wot’s the use er forkin' ?
I’m sayin’ all I ‘ave to say, an' that amounts to nix ;
I’m doin’ all I ’ave to do, an’ that is siftin' here
An’ lettin' foolish ’uinans whisper questions in me ear.
But, bein’ made o’ stone,
I never yet was known
To fork a bloomin’ syllable in many thousan’ year.
For, seein’ as 1 can’t reply, I shuts me mouth an' don't;
So you foiler my example, w’ich I know darn well you
won’t ! ”
But that old Egyptian lesson
Ain’t been learned not to this day ;
An’ the world’s still fond o’ sayin’
Wot it ’asn’t got to say.
We ’ave lost the art o’ gettin’
Lengthy sermons outer stones.
An’ encouraged politicians, ■
An’ invented gramaphones.
There is some (like Mister Deakin)
Takes a brilliant hour or so
To look pleasant on a platform
An’ get out a “ Yes” or “ No.”
Even then ’e doesn’t do it ;
For you’ll find, when ’e is done,
That the “ Yes ” or “ No ” is missin’,
Fer ’e ain’t sed either one.
There are others ’oo kin answer
“ Yes and No,” if there is need,
Both together, simultan’ous.
(Needn’t mention Mr. Reid.)
An’ w’ile they tork the stony Sphinx;
Ignorin’ all the crew,
Is sayin’ all an’ doin’ all
That she’s expected to.
. It’s torkin’, torkin’, nothin' else but torkin’,
■ Sayin’ nothin’ eloquent with large amounts of noise :
Never sayin’, like the Sphinx, all there is to say,
But torkin’ all-around it in a most annoyin’ way.
Torkin' nothin’ by the yard ;
Torkin’ loud an’ torkin’ ’ard ;
Never stoppin’ fer to act, but torkin’ night an’ day.
An’ Australia she listens xoith a buzzin’ in ’er 'tad,
An’ she dunno ’ow to answer ’cos she dunno wot’s been
sed.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Ronisch Pianos
We are showing an excep-
tionally line lot of
Ronisch Pianos, both in
Grands and Uprights,
Their tone quality and
touch are delightful.
Their case work designs
exceedingly artistic.
Catalogue and full particu-
lars are free for the
ashing.
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD.,
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE
sm
W' .
1 . m #%
s»v v
M*A-
-3006 '
-»
0 M-A-
-1 3004
H
j
M-A-
-3005
:
&a
9
•/
• i
I
Ml
afee
4te
r :mm
mm
M-A-
-3007 /
■pf
I
ii
' .j-.t
ill
Ml
Seasonable COATS
at
BUCKLEY’S.
M.A. 3004.—Double-Breasted 54-inch Coat, in
Shadow Stripe, Medium Heather Tweed,
with Plain-stitched Cloth Collar, Strap
across Back. Same design, also in Navy
Melton Cloth. Price 25/“
M.A. 3005.—54-inch Double-Breasted Heavy
Tweed Coat, in Grey and two shades of
Green, Patch Pockets. Price 27j6
M.A. 3006.—50-inch and 54-inch Heavy Navy
Serge Sac Coat with self strappings.
Price 2716
M.A. 3007.—Smart Double-Breasted Coat in
New Peacock Shadow Striped Tweed
only. Price 25 /-
THIS IS A SPECIMEN PAGE FROM OUR WINTER CATALOGUE,
Copy sent Post Free to any address on application.
BUCKLEY & NUNN Ltd
300-310 Bourhe Street, Melbourne.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates, scurf, is; the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., xos. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PlLES.—There is no more distressing and
painful complaint from which you can suffer
than Piles. The most effective cure is Ballas
Balm. Certain in every case. Obtainable from
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*
&
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Aerents—RlCHAßD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COCLGARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Johnson’s unpopularity in Australia appears to
have been public worship compared to the execration he
has gained in the United States. In fact, so great is the
detestation in which he is held that he doesn’t go out at
nights. His treatment of his manager, the veteran Sam
Fitzpatrick, would appear to be the basis of it, and on
that solid foundation he has managed to build quite an
elegant superstructure of unpopularity. The story goes
that when Fitzpatrick took him up, Johnson hadn’t a
dollar, and credit was a thing he didn’t know the meaning
of. Fitzpatrick borrowed the money on his own personal
security with which to take Johnson to London and
Paris ; and when he arrived there the negro ran a rig
that simply ate coin. Although the Mclntosh advanced
a considerable sum for passages and exes, when the match
was made with Burns, Fitzpatrick had to pawn himself
again to raise the money to clean up with before leaving.
And then when Johnson had gained the championship,
and was in a fair way to make much money, he seems to
have managed in some mysterious manner to drop .Fitz-
patrick overboard. Fitz had found himself compelled to
shoulder all the financial responsibilities, and he is still
earrving them. Johnson has the title, the diamonds,
and "all the cash there was to get, and Fitz appears to
have all the debts. So the great Yankee public, which
never under any circumstances regards a nigger as a
brother, declines to even recognise Johnson as a cousin.
In fact, it is freely prophesied that Johnson will come to
a bad end.
The Mclntosh writes from New York : “ Have
been pursuing the 2301 b. giant who rejoices in the name
of James to his lair, and trying to persuade him to fight
Johnson. He has given me the cold look of disdain, and
sneers at £lO,OOO purses, which he calls ‘ Piker’s offers.’
He steadfastly refuses to even state whether he will con-
descend to exchange swats with the colored gentleman.
This is sad news, I know, but as 1 sleep on Jeffries’ door-
step I will no doubt eventually persuade the leg-o’-
mutton-fisted nobleman to entertain the proposition and
dissolve Johnson’s golden smile. After a careful and
painstaking diagnosis of the elf-like James, I have
come to the conclusion that if he ever strikes form and
meets the honorable Jack Johnson in the ring there will
be some damage done. The great Amurkan people do
not take kindly to the colored person. They refer to him
as ‘The Big Stiff,’ and speak of his fighting ability in con-
temptuous terms. I have heard it stated in public bars
and other places of ill repute that he does not
even possess a wallop, which, I understand, is the
George Washington language for punch. Personally lam
at variance with these authorities, having seen the
aforesaid peer hand out some choice uppercuts. To-day
(April 2) I have posted £lOOO, or 5000 dollars in the lan-
guage of the country, inviting Mr. Johnson to meet in
contest one Mr. Burns, and try and repeat his act of
December 26 last year. I have not much hope of Mr.
Johnson covering the money, as he is now in the centre
of the pugilistic stage. He has various gentlemen all
begging to be allowed to try to stop his uppercuts. Chief
among them are Ketchell, Kaufmann and Langford.
The others are too numerous to mention. Ketchell fought
O’Brien the other night, and in one of the prettiest scraps
I have ever seen knocked out O’Brien in the 10th round. A
contest between Ketchell and Tommy Burns would be one
of the most elegant battles we could possibly get; and
speaking offhand it would be hard to pick the. winner.
I am now the owner of the car that is com-
monly supposed to be the fastest in the world
the Benz, that broke 10 world’s records at Day-
tona recently, and averged 100 miles per hour at
the speed trials. I will take the vehicle to Australia with
me when I return home. During my travels I have met
quite a number of famous Australians, all of whom seem
to be doing well. Miss Annette Kellermann is the star
of the American vaudeville world at present. Olive
Lenton, the little Australian serio, occupies a very
prominent position in English vaudeville, and is in the
pleasant position of being booked for several years to
come. Bees and Garner, the Australian musical team,
are well booked and enthusiastically received ; but the
most fortunate of all is Eddie Ford, starred as ‘ The Aus-
tralian Sundowner,’ who is booked right away till 1914 at
an excellent salary. Mrs. Alda—Frances Adler, of Sydney,
in the days arear—is appearing here in grand opera with
Scotti and other famous artists. You will remember the
famous horse, F. J.A., named after her by a distinguished
baronet.”
* * * *
Tahmmv Burns, responding to a toast at
Townsville (Q.) recently, said : “ I may surprise the fight-
inn- world within a year, and fight Johnson. Like a race-
horse, every .man has his off day ; and I think I fought a
bad fi’vht on Boxing Day at Sydney.” You did, Tahmmy ;
you did. You threw all your own pretty precepts to the
winds, and let Johnson practise on you the rules you
had laid down for the successful stousher. You bored
in with the courage of a lion and the common-sense
of a fried owl. You led for his bullet head when his fair
African bingey smiled at you invitingly. In fact, you did
all those things you ought not to have done, and left un-
done those things which you ought to have done, and
there was no stoush in you.
* * * *
Another shocking disappointment befell the
patrons of Melbourne Pavilion the other evening, when
big Bill Lang’s little relation, Ernie, essayed to hit the
ballast out of Mike Williams, the South African champ,
who was such a South African chump when up against
Bill Smith, W. Squires, and Willie Lang. Ernie Lang is
rather a larger edition of Bill, and as he had been shaping
well in the stable since his victory over long Tom Fen-
nessey, it was thought the exile front Erin via Africa
would prove an easy thing for him. But when all was
said and done Ernie was found in a state of hopeless pros-
tration after four minutes’ fighting. It was a calm, still
night. Mr. Mike Williams, whose movements in the ring
are leisurelv and elephantine, smote Mr. Ernest Lang
once and‘Lang conducted himself for the rest of
that’ starlit eve like one afflicted with string-halt,
shock and nervous breakdown. He couldn’t hit Mike in
that pleasant autumn time, neither could he shift out of
Mike’s way. Yet it was good weather for travelling out
of , Mike’s way—cool and invigorating, with only the
faintest zephyr stirring, but Ernest didn’t stir even so
much as the zephyr, though he seemed quite as faint.
His fi<>-hting capacity had simply evaporated. Ernie had
courage, but he lacked nerve, and his opponent, who has
both, smote him out of countenance and off the earth so
far as a ring-career is concerned. Thus did the sun go
down on Mike’s wrath.
Rugby Union matches in Sydney on Saturday
were far from gay. With the solitary exception of the
draw between Western Suburbs and Sydney, every game
was a runaway victory for the top dog* and utter ruin for
the animal underneath. South Sydney got Eastern
Suburbs down and rolled on it by 12 to nil. Eastern
Suburbs would have given its immortal soul to have had
the crafty Messenger for just one hour. Glebe fell on
Manly and destroyed it by 26 points to three, while New-
town did Balmain immense damage that is but dimly
indicated by the score of 32 points to eight. Almost as
cruel was the 22 points to five defeat that University
inflicted on North Sydney. West and Sydney were dead
level with three points each, while St. George had the
bye. St. George was lucky to be out of the wet that
lamentable afternoon.
The result was to make the position of South
and Glebe somewhat better in the competition. These
two clubs are now leading by three points each from the
second row, which is composed of Newtown and Western
Suburbs, with seven points each. Eastern Suburbs and
University have six points each, after which there is
nothing worthy of consideration excepting the pitiable
plight of North Sydney. That club deserves a tear of
commiseration, having so far not won a game, made a
draw, or had a bye; so it is still flying the sign of the
lonely waterfowl.
* ■* * *
The Newtown (Sydney) Club that plays under
Australian rules is fast bringing the Australian game into
contempt. On Saturday last it gave a shocking exhibi-
tion. Two Paddington men, excellent players of course,
were obviously marked. A few minutes after starting
one of them had an eye fairly closed with a beautiful
wallop that would be an assetin the prize ring, but should
be a penal offence in the football field. A one-eyed man
is at a disadvantage while playing any sort of football,
but this lusty fellow kept going at such a pace that it was
apparently decided, in the interests of Newtbwn, to put
his other lamp out. And put out it was. A second
wallop closed it as effectually as even Jack Johnson could
have desired. Another Newtown player appears to have
cultivated the French art of punching with his feet, and
showed a most amazing skill at kicking his opponents
under the shoulder blades. Had he been able to boot the
leather half as well as he could a man whose back was
turned to him, Newtown would have won by about 200
points instead of getting disgracefully walloped by 65
to 34. If the Australian game is to prosper, ruffians
of this sort will have to be shunted out of it.
* * * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union has got its
little knife out. On June 5 the Rugby League has a
meeting with the “ All Blacks ” at Sydney Agricultural
Ground ; and, behold, the Union fixes the match between
the Wallabies and the best of N.S.W. at the Cricket
Ground for the same date. Evidently the Union intends
to make the League’s precarious life miserable.
* * * ■*
The second effort of the Westralian Soccer team
against N.S.W. on Saturday last, at Sydney Cricket
Ground, ended disastrously for the invaders, who were
overcome by three to one. Neither team played as good
a game as on the previous Saturday. The visiting for-
wards ran wild, and the home backs lost their block.
Both sides were over eager, and threw away chances
galore through failing to combine at critical moments.
In fact, there was only one really decent charge the
whole afternoon, and that was when the Westralians pulled
themselves together, and, witha splendid rush, wentclean
through N.S.W. into the net. They never repeated it—
otherwise history had told a different tale. The N.S;W.
forwards were the best men in the field, and practically
won the game. Only about 4000 people rolled up.
* * * •
The holy city of Adelaide is in a most unholy
stew over the vagaries of one Stoddart. Stoddart, play-
ing for Norwood, became exasperated at having a free
kick given against him, and told the central umpire he
ought to get off the ground. Being warned, he repeated
the remark with emphasis. At the conclusion of the
match the umpire informed Stoddart that he would
accept an apology. Stoddart declined to apologise. The
umpire, who seems to have been a long-suffering indi-
vidual, gave him till Tuesday to think it over. Stoddart
didn’t alter his attitude, and so he was reported to the
League. The chairman of the League gave the
recalcitrant Stoddart another week. Stoddart said
he would he blowed before he’d apologise, or
something like that. In the meantime, the chair-
man, apparently forgetting the rule which says
a reported player shall not play till his case has been
considered, allowed Stoddart to operate in the match
against Port Adelaide. This, seemingly, gave St-oddart
swelled head, and when he appeared again before the
chairman he admitted using the words, but once more
declined to apologise. The chairman accordingly passed
him out for a month. Then the press announced that
Stoddart had apologised, and the suspension was lifted.
Stoddart immediately wrote to the press to say that he
had expressed no regret and didn’t feel any. After that
he went to bed, and awoke next morning to find himself
infamous and a storm centre. It looks as though Nor-
wood, which is a club with a reputation to maintain, can
do nothing less than quietly drop this aggressive ball-
kicker.
* « * *
Melbourne’s football mostly caught the average
barracker unawares on Saturday. An ideal football day
induced extra thousands to watch the game as it ought
to be, and risk an odd shilling or two on “ form.” Colbng-
wood received Richmond at Victoria Park. For the first
10 minutes neither side scored ; then Richmond’s
sudden rushing' of a behind set the Magpies
goin<>- in earnest, and at the quarter their tally
was” 19 points to one. By half time they had
raised it to 43 to nine, and only bigoted supporters took
any interest in the uproar. ’Wood eased off a little after
that, but the final score—Ss to 49—was preponderating
enough. Richmond has acquired some novices of great
altitude and much tonnage, and against quick-passing
play they were comparatively useless ; also they possess
the"expensive habit of holding the ball too long. Haifa
mile away, on ’Roy’s ground, that club’s concussion
with South attracted such a crowd that the rail-
ings gave away and excited barrackers slopped over on
to" the grass." Many casualties occurred during the
rush, and one youth got his leg broken. South incon-
tinently bogged in with much vigor and passed ’Roy an
old man walloping—B points to 2, 36 to 8, 56 to 10,
and 76 to 37 being on the board at the respective
quarters. South is now the only unbeaten League team.
Considering all things, Melbourne wasn’t expected to do
much with St. Kilda, but though its lamentable kicking
deserved disaster the strenuous play of half-a-dozen stars
made up for the very moderate efforts of the other dozen.
It was an unexpected win—sl points to Saints’ 40. Across
the park Essendon sustained an unlooked-for reverse at
the feet of the Students, the retirement of whose cap-
tain, T. Fogarty, only nerved them to extra efforts.
Essendon collected its first defeat this season by 59 points
to Uni.’s 68. The most awful capsize, amounting to a
catastrophe, happened at Geelong, whither Carlton had
gone to gather in a sweet and easy victory. After two
hours’ hard battling and fine, open play, it returned in
disorder with a score of 61 points to Geelong’s 85 to ex-
plain away. The trouble with Carlton is the old one that
overtakes every club which sphishes capital around in a
reckless determination to get the best “talent” at any
cost. That part of the “talent” that gets, say, 20s. a
week “ expenses ” isn’t on speaking terms with the por-
tions that get 305., 40s. or 60s. ; and though an energetic
secretary may bluff or persuade or dragoon malcontents
for a time, the old discontent rises again, and once more
the team comes down bump.
The ten Victorian Association clubs brought
their discussions to an equally lopsided conclusion, the
premiers, ’Serav, going under to Brighton by 82 to 65;
Williamstown collapsing before Essendon by 51 to 44;
and Preston playing second fiddle to Ports by
46 to 43. These three losers are hereby noti-
fied that this in-and-out, come-and-go business
is subversive of good football government. Better
examples to follow are those of Brunswick, which
methodically totted up 65 points to North’s 38, and P’ran,
which placed 86 on the board to Northeote’s 55. P’ran
encounters Brighton next week, and the meeting of the
McKinnonites and the Bentites will be a notable circum-
rtance, provided someone will entice the Great Bellower
elsewhere and keep him from slopping- over the pro-
ceedings. , ,
* *
NSW. Motor Boat Club’s race for the cham-
pionship and Albert Cup on Sydney harbor last Saturday
was not a wildly-exciting event. In fact, it wasn t a
race at all, merely a procession, in which Arthur Davies
symmetrical model, yclept Fairbanks, won all the way
just as its skipper liked, and averaged 25 miles an hour
on the job. The second boat was Charles Moseley s Fair-
banks 11., which is a ridiculous way to name a boat, and
quite unworthy of Mr. Moseley. The tail of the procession
was George YVhatmore’s Baby Imperial, the craft that
was to have been a hydroplane, but isn t. Whatmore is
a disappointing inhabitant—he is always threatening to
brin-out something really startling ; and, when the new
contraption comes along, it proves to be just the ordinary
kind of boat that is always inferior to something else in
speed. For years there have been whispers of a 200 or
10,000 h.p. Mercedes that was going to lick everything
that stood against it; but so far it is still in the air.
»* * *
The Duke of Westminster’s 24-cylinder, all-
English Wolseley-Siddeley 11. again carried off the Grand
Prix at Monte Carlo Motor Boat carnival ; which is the
world’s crack best-and-best racing event. The English
boat, developing 750 h.p., led over the whole 31 miles
of the course, with the French winner of last years
Championship of the Sea 15sec. behind. The Champion-
ship of the Sea, limited to boats of the cruiser type was
again carried off by the French, per medium of the
Chantecleer, fitted with a Brasier engine, which ran 1-4
miles in 4hr. 45min. 58sec. Neither Wolseley-Siddeley 11.,
nor the Punhard-Levassor, last year’s winner, started in
the event this year. Why, writeyvots not.
Once a motorist has driven a car fitted with
Dunlop detachable rims, and drifted into a habit of being
free from continual dread of roadside repairs, he will
never of a free will again drive a car with fixed runs. It
does not matter how good the tyres are, there is always
the chance of a puncture, and it’s just that uncertainty
that destroys much of the charm of motoring. The
latest improved form of “Dunlop detachable is parti-
cularly neat, and gives not the semblance of a rattle after
years of service. This ingenious and simple device
enables motorists to replace a complete inflated tyre and
rim on a wheel within the space of ten seconds, leaving
the puncture repairing to be executed at home or in the
o-arage, whilst the “ man of moderate means,” who takes
delight in looking after the mechanism of his car, but
draws the line at laborious tyre-repairing by the muddy
wayside, can, with the aid of the Dunlop detachable
rim, dispense with the services of a chauffeur. The
non-skidding problem, too, may be simplified by
the aid of these rims, because a tourist may use
smooth or grooved rubber tyres ordinarily, and carry
Dunlop steel-studded tyres, fixed upon detachable rims,
ready to substitute directly the nature of the weather
or roads renders non-skids desirable. The rim’s chief
characteristic is its simplicity. Unlike other detach-
able rims and spare wheels, there is not a single loose
part, not one nut or screw to be manipulated. The Dun-
lop detachable rim has been a great success during the
past 12 months, but the makers have not been satisfied
to stand idle ; they have devised a radical improvement
in structural detail, whilst retaining the same principle.
The improved rim is greatly reduced in weight and—
what is even of more importance to the motorist—in
price. Motorists who are interested in this important
subject should send a postcard to the Dunlop Rubber Co.,
Clarence-street, Sydney, for it copy of its illustrated
booklet giving full particulars of this wonderful con-
trivance.*
* * * *
The German Crown Prince is said to have gone
dotty on path cycle racing, and not only journeys hun-
dred of miles to'see events of. moi-e or less importance,
but persuades promoters to run private shows for the
edification of hjmself and his royal dutch. The Austra-
lian hope at the World Championships, A. J. Clark, has
specially interested the young man, who arranged for a
private match in which Clark, Henry Mayer and the
Yankee, de Mara, joined in. Clark ran away from them,
and his imperial Nibs arose as one man, tore his own dia-
mond sleeve-links from his cuffs and insisted on the
Kangaroo taking them as a souvenir. Like a wise man,
Clark took them before the imperial mind veered round.
* * * *
The Dunlop Rubber Co. has issued a gorgeous
artistic souvenir of the first great military despatch cycle
ride from Adelaide to Sydney. It is an interesting docu-
ment, and gives a wealth of detail about the lide that
should make it piost valuable to cyclists. Wheelers
desirous of obtaining a copy should apply to the Dunlop
Rubber Co., Clarence-street, Sydney, enclosing a stamp
to cover postage, when the souvenir will be sent along
gratis. And it is worth having.
N.S.W.. Cyclists’ Union is booming. It is on
the job. It is alive. Dates stretching far into
the spring have been allocated for State and
club events ; and the season opened on Satur-
day with a roar of triumph and a 10-mile open
race over the Homebush road (Sydney), in which 200
riders took part. The final will take place next Saturday,
and includes 44 riders. All the same, the Union will have
to chastise those whom it loves, or it will strike trouble.
The bikist on a road race is beginning to emulate the
motor hog in his endeavors to bump anything else on the
track into the gutter. And the other things won’t stand
Cyclist Frank Watson, who was so badly
smashed up recently, is a lt is to be regretted
that the generic name of heroes is so often Win. Goat.
Watson was wrecked, and now being somewhat patched
up again, he writes to a daily paper “ I admit lam blind
in one eye, but the doctors think I may get some of the
si-ht back in a few months. As for giving up racing,
that is a mistake. I will be riding in the next road race,
and. as soon as my eye is right I will start on the track
again.” Tub Bulltctin’s advice to the young man is:
“"Don’t he a Wm. Goat—chuck it ! ”
* * * *
There are points about a recent English inven-
tion which prevents a motor car running faster than a
predetermined speed. An indicator is marked at the
maximum speed the driver wishes to travel, and when
that speed is exceeded the clutch is automatically with-
drawn, and, if necessary, the brakes applied. The
mechanism is all contained in a box, which can be locked
and sealed by the police, and which cannot be trifled with
by the driver except by Alexander’s method of smashing
the thing with a spanner. The Macedonian, it will be re-
membered, always untied difficult knots with a spanner.
In view of the vagaries of the road hog, the invention is
attracting great attention on the part of the local authori-
ties in England and elsewhere.
* * * *
The increase in popularity of lacrosse iu Sydney
is phenomenal. Whereas a few seasons ago the games
were watched only by the best girls of the combatants,
crowds numbering hundreds, and sometimes thousands,
now look on and whoop madly. There are now ten first-
grade clubs in full swing in and around Sydney on the
district principle, and the game is catching on. Base-
ball is also moving up, while hockey is as healthy as
ever. The best part of the business is that the spread of
these games means that more young fellows are going in
for healthy exercise. The players are not disappointed
footballers who have thrown over the old game because
they had no hope of getting into the front rank—they
are men who, if they were not playing their own parti-
cular game, would probably be sitting in a pavilion
watching footballers. Young Sydney is becoming more
out-door and athletic than ever; and even the girls are
going in for field games in droves. All of which is a joy-
ful thing and means a mighty improvement in Cornstalk
physique in the present, and a stronger, hardier genera-
tion of babies in the future.
* * * *
“‘Micawber,” his curse : “ One thing is certain
-—Olein Hill’s absence is the least and last trouble of the
XI. now in England. And another certainty is that the
luckiest member of the present team is Albert Hopkins,
who drifted into the company at the 11th hour. ‘ Hoppy ’
has been a good player, but has never reached the great
stage that many wiseacres foretold. Take the last three
years, and you will find that Hopkins has keen the most
persevered in member of the bunch. In eight (approxi-
mately) of 10 fixtures he got in as an emergency, and was
nearly always picked upon first selection. And what has
he done to deserve it? His big score in the Australian
Test match at the Sydney Cricket Ground was declared
by many to be a decided fluke. Anyhow, it is up to
‘ Hoppy ’ to do something.”
* * * »
Somebody, obviously a cricket crank of the most
virulent type, sends along this shriek : “ Warren
Bardsley’s success in England cotnes as a pleasing re-
fresher to his intimate friends, who see in his marvellous
score the well-earned reward of sfeveral years of diligent
practice. Almost every morning during the cricket
season, and at times well into winter, Bardsley’s appear-
ance at practice was as regular as the clock. Not so very
long ago this batsman was a crude beginner with a
tendency to lash out. But his careful attention to detail
has eliminated all that, and resulted in his mastering all
manner of delicate strokes. There is no reason why he
should not beat/Trumper’s record by a great majority.”
This sort of thing may be very fine from a cricket stand-
point; from a national outlook it is disastrous- Had
Bardsley devoted about half the energy to the study
of mechanics, or chemistry, or some other use-
ful science, he might have done something that
would have been of real benefit to himself, his
country and the race generally. This paper admires
healthy athleticism, because it promotes national health,
strength and soundness of wind and limb. But this sort
of thing is not sport—it’s professionalism or sheer waste
of time.
» » * •*
The Australian XI. (Ltd.) isn’t on the highway
to glory so far. Two defeats in four matches is a bad
start. The team was supposed to be strong in batting,
but the 210 and 175 against M.C.C. would indicate that
something has gone wrong with the works, bo far the
bowlers, especially Whitty and Armstrong, are what
Johnson Weir called “ towers of strength ” to the XI.
* * * *
When N.S.W. Cricket Association started to
open the replies to its inquiries re grounds, about the
first it struck, or rather that struck it, was one from
Paddington Council. This fool body controls a waste of
mud and mullock that was recently Chinese gardens.
It is named Hampden Oval, and the price of Hampden
was set down at 45 per cent, of the gross takings. As
everybody knows, Paddington worships at the shrine of
Noble and Trumper, who are opponents of the Board of
Control, which the Association supports. So apparently
this idiotic tender was intended to be an insult to the
Association for its action. But it is only an insult to the
intelligence of the Paddington voters who are responsible
for the existence of such a body of know-nothings..
Lyttelton (M.L.) possesses a veteran walker,
named Samuel Vaughan, who, at the age of 69 years, still
takes part in contests, and recently beat quite a large
field over a mile. Although the veteran had 500 yd.
start from the scratch man, a lot of the youngsters were
on equal terms, and the old man beat them easily. Per-
formances like this speak more eloquently of a well-spent
life than many bushels of references from even the best
P eople ‘
A Victorian professional billiard tournament is
happening in Melbourne just now, at Alcoqk’s cosy parlor.
Six players entered for the handicap, and they will play
heats of 800 up every evening until June 9. Memmott
starts from scratch, whilst the limit member of the sestet
has 245 points to the good.
* * * *
Arnst and Webb are still alive and well,
training hard on the Wanganui (M.L.), and skilful press
barrackers are pumping hot air in a manner that indicates
that Maoriland will soon outdo even the almighty United
States in the great art of guff. Summed up, it all boils
down to the statement that both men are hard at work ;
eating, sleeping, and looking well; and on present
form it is an asinine business to indulge in wise talk about
the result of the tussle.
Just as an editor is at the mercy of his printer,
so the Australian Lawn Tennis Association finds it is at the
mercy of its ground caretaker. After having shifted the
date of the Davis Cup to some'time in October, the
Association has done a hurried crayfish, double somer-
sault or back down, in face of the ground man’s ulti-
matum that he cannot have the courts fit for international
matches by October. The most the grovelling Associa-
tion could get out of the autocrat was a gruff promise
that the courts should be fit by the end of November.
Why the deuce the visiting tennis player should be so
specially treated is a mystery. When the Australians
went abroad to win the Cup, they had to put up with
whatever cold and fog were going, and didn’t make a
song about it. But the foreigner expects us to veil the
Australian summer sun, and draw a curtain of mist athwart
the Australian moon for his special benefit when he con-
descends to come here to show what he is made of.
* * * *
The Scottish Amateur Swimming Association
has followed up its threat, and suspended Victorian
swimmer Beaurepaire for not fulfilling his engagement
with H. Taylor last year. Bogey’s troubles ! There is no
reciprocity between the Scottish and Australian Associa-
tions. Evidently, the Scots lost some bawbees over that
non-appearance, and are rubbing it in.
* * * *
“True Bill”: The latest case of “conscience
money” lunacv broke out where conscience never before
had a look in. ‘ One of Sydney Tatt.’s Patrick Moseses was
struck dumb for the best part of a week after receiving an
anonymously forwarded “ tenner ” with the explanation
“ Overpaid a long time ago.” Having recovered from the
shock the P.M. couldn’t be convinced that the note wasn’t
a “ flimsy ” till his bank manager overhauled it.
7r * * »
Some people are lucky. Eight days after
Kooringa had won Adelaide Cup a tired Mount Barker
(S.A.) syndicate discovered it had drawn that nag in
Tatt.’s” sweep, and consequently would divide up
£5OOO. Same crowd has had more than one dip during
five years’ existence —and its hauls now total £lO,OOO.
Yet it was so tired that it apparently took eight days to
look at its ticket.
* * *■ *
The right of pony racecourse stewards to sub-
stitute one jockey for another in suspicious cases worked
well at Ascot (Sydney) last Thursday. Pony Manning
opened favorite for the 14'2 Handicap, but afterwards
lengthened so alarmingly that officials hunted up a boy
other than he who had weighed out, and things quietened
considerably. Manning started at 6to 4 against, and
romped home.
* » » *
The result of the Q.T.C. St. Leger at Brisbane
on Saturday demonstrated that the State’s youngster,
Flaxen, who promised big things a few months ago, has
gone off completely, despite published statements that
training work indicated considerable improvement upon
his A. J.C. Autumn meeting form. Backed at sto 2 on.
Flaxen was never in it, and finished last of four starters.
The failure was all the worse by reason of the fact that
Barallan, who won easily, had had a hard time running
third in the Stradbrooke Handicap earlier the same
afternoon.
* * * *
Things are deadly slow in the Australian scrap-
ping world. We are a decadent race from a bruising
standpoint, and there is no slug in us. The only fighter
of tonnage and degree we have is William Lang, com-
monly known as Bill. There are grave doubts as to the
top-notch qualities of Billiam, but the fact that a judge
like manager Fitzpatrick likes his appearance proves that
he has possibilities about him. Of course, Bill’s woe is
that even a bruiser, like ordinary humanity, is influenced
by his environment. William, among the mediocrities we
have in Australia at present, will never become a world
breaker. But if he gets among giants who will kindly put
a head on him once or twice, he will possibly become
gigantic also.


“Harrison O.” : EvenHingland, with its
prejudices, conservatism and love of effete sys-
tems, is beginning to awake to the unparalleled
absurdity of its system of party government. If
there is one man in the Cold Country who maybe
fairly said to voice the current opinions of the
clubs, and indeed of the uppah and middle classes
of Bull’s land generally, it is Owen Seaman, editor
of Bull’s cherished and revered Punch. Writing
upon the navy question, O.S. hollers loudly for
Elected Ministers (with a fixed tenure of office).
Speaking through one of his typical club-man
characters, he says :
I would use the best men from both sides. I should
like a Coalition Ministry, a Ministry of All the Patriots.
It is an intolerable scandal that the%ountr.v cannot enjoy
the invaluable services of a man like Edward Grey without
having at the same time bo suffer the attentions of—well,
you know whom, simply because the latter happens to
call himself by the same party name of Liberal, though
their two standards are as wide apart as the Poles.
Amusements.
MELBA,
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR, 1909
(Under direction of John Lemmone).
NEW SOUTH WALES
Commencing at SYDNEY, JUNE 1.
QUEENSLAND—
Commencing at BRISBANE, JUNE 26.
SYDNEY,
JUNE.
Y M. C. A. HALL,
1 ' TUESDAY, 22nd
FLORENCE MENKMEYER,
SOPRANO and PIANISTE.
Surnamed by the Russian and Parisian Press,
“THE SECOND LISZT.”
HIGHLY GIFTED DRAMATIC SOPRANO.
55., 35,, and 2s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. G. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening at 7.45 sharp.
THE J. C. WILLIAMSON
GRAND ANNUAL CARNIVAL ATTRACTION.
JACK AND JILL
OUTSHINES ALL ITS PREDECESSORS.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
“P H E LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
WE LEAD, OTHERS FOLLOW.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH AN ENTIRELY NEW PROGRAMME.
ADMISSION—Is 6d, Is, and 6d. Plan at Paling’s, 2s fid.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, Meynell & Gunn Company.
Managing Directors : Clyde Meynell & John Gunn.
EVENINGS at 8. WEDNESDAYS at 2.
BRILLIANT AND ARTISTIC SUCCESS of
Wilson Barrett’s Last Plav,
“LUCKY DU It H A M.”
Interpreted by MEYNELL & GUNN’S NEW
ENGLISH CO., including HARCOURT BEATTY.
Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION OP T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is fid, Is, & fid. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY
(Castlereagh Street, Near Bathurst Street).
THE PLAYGOERS’ DRAMATIC CLUB
will Present the Great Australian Comedy Drama,
OUT ON THE CASTLE REACH
(bv J. C. Lee),
Por FIVE NIGHTS ONLY—May 31, June 1,2, 3 and 4.
MR. REGINALD GOODE as REV. ALLEN RAE.
MISS LILIAN BOOTH as MARJORY.
Mr. W. H. LEVEY, Stage Manager.
Miss A. CHAMBERS, Secretary.
LACIA R I U M,
S Y D N E Y.
G
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY—IO to 12 a.m., 3to 5 p.m.,
and 8 to 10.30 p.m.
A OMISSION, 2s. ; CHILDREN, Morning and Afternoon
only. Is. SKATE HIRE, 6d.
SATURDAY MORNlNG—Children, Admission 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, George St., opp. Railway Station.
’Phone 492, Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
1“ IVO L I THEATRE, SYON E yT
1 Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mn. Haiuiy Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
FLORENCE and LILLIAN, Artistic Musical Experts.
, ; DALE and O’MALLEY, Cross Talk Comedians.
MISS CISSIE CURLETTE, Mimic and Quaint Vocalist.
MR. JAY RYAN, Baritone.
GRAHAM AND DENT. Popular Comedi ans, in the New,
Original One-Act Comedy, A BACHELOR’S DREAM.
THE KLAERS, introducing Trained Dogs and Monkeys,
j MR. JACK KELLY and MISS KELLY.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE SISTERS SPRIGHTLY, Comedienne Dancers.
R. H. DOUGLASS, Monologue Entertainer.
TOM WOOTTWELL, Comedian.
G. W. HUNTER, Comedian Monologuist.
THE LAURELS, Ping Pong Table Act.
Plan at Allan’s. ,W PRICES—3s, 2s fid, 2s, Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE ATTRACTION,
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS
STRUCK OIL.
Prices—ss., 2s. 6d., Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
THE PLAY THAT HAS ROUSED THE EMPIRE.
MAJOR GUY DU MAURIEK’S Famous Play,
AN ENGLISHMAN’S HOME.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
STUPENDOUS AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTION.
MR. WALTER BAKER and MISS FRANCES ROSS,
supported by Specially Selected Dramatic Organisation,
—in —
THE MAN FROM OUTBACK.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
w
IRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
WEST’S PICTURES THE S I LL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE
Silent F.N. Car
Backed by the Belgium Govt.
HERE’S THE TEST YOU WANT.
“ 6424 miles over roughest roads
on 256 gals, of benzine—over 25
miles to 1 gal.
“Then, down with all parts—and
not a sign of wear—anywhere.
“ The simplicity of the carburetter
is inexplicable.
“The Ignition system is a revela-
tion.
“Brakes beautiful— noiseless.
They stop with the same feeling
you get on a high-grade lift—the
car simply comes back to you.
“No repairs since purchase, and
more silent than ever.”
This is independent testimony.
We hold the proof.
TARRAKt
MOTOR CO.
106RUS5ELL.S T ,MELBOURNE.
Sole/Agents for FTats. De Dion's. FN's
Argylls, Rovers. Fords.
TEi5.2992-3030
ir^Ti
TRIM weak, nervous, scraggy,
liliH, FLAT-CHESTED, RUN-DOWN
and UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN.
If you want to add flesh, be made
plump, strong, healthy and vigorous,
send for a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE of
“MIRACULA” NERVE FOOD and
FLESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FAT PEOPLE area BURDEN to
**** themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others, and cannot
possibly enjoy GOOD HEALTH.
Oar NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE your
FAT quickly, safely, and per-
manently. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept,. 2, 44 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
A. M. L. $ F. Co. ltd
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
StocK and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land U Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Bligh Street, SYDNEY.
Our New 1909 Catalogue is Free.
Mention this paper when writing.
“Two Heads are Better Than One”
Sometimes —it all depends on the heads. Same with
bicycles, quality rather than quantity. ONE
B. and B. MODEL 3 CYCLE
is better than six other inferior makes. Built of the
best imported parts, fitted with first-class tyres, and
guaranteed for a year. PRICE .£ll.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The Largest Oycle-buildin;
House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Speaking with a certain amount of bitter-
ness after the collapse of the Broken Hill strike
or lock-out or whatever it was, Jabez Wright
said of his, and the miners’, one-time idol, Tom
Mann, that as a manager he wasn’t worth 2d. a
day, and that he wasn’t competent to run a lolly
shop. The Bulletin has darkly hinted the same
thing for a year or two past, and it fully agrees
with .Jabez.
The High Court dealt Wade’s Liquor Act
(1905) a much-needed biff on Friday last.
Hitherto it has been held that the licensee of a
pub in which illegal gaming occurred was
liable equally with the gamesters, no matter how
little he knew of the wickedness and immorality
that were in train. He might have locked away
every pack of cards whose existence he knew of.
have seen all persons suspected of gambling pro-
clivities safely to their beds, have hidden the
draught-boards, and himself turned in with all
the dice on the premises under his pillow,
and the only bagatelle-table in the baili
wick chained to his bedpost. None of
these precautions availed him anything.
So surely as the Law dropped on to players of a
game of chance in his house the licensee went
down. The High Court’s latest decision —viz.,
that if persons are playing a game for money on
licensed premses without the licensee’s permis-
sion the latter isn’t liable—is of the horse-sense
order. And horse-sense is a scarce and valuable
thing—much scarcer than horse-hair.
S.A. land-holders have had a horrid shock.
The Act which empowered the inter-State rail-
way allowed the Government to take land for all
or any purposes of the line at a common-sense
valuation reckoned from the year before the Act
was passed. That was supposed to be the end of
it. But now the Government happens to want
some more land just outside the city for sidings,
and it is advised that it can take all it wants at
the old valuation (plus any improvements) of
nearly 40 years ago ! Wealthy holders (the S.A.
Company, for example), who have simply sat on
their land and seen the adjacent rail multiply
its value, are liable to get a severe blow
in the pocket if the Government happens to
fancy their holdings “for the purposes of the
line.” It runs out of the city on the north, hugs
the whole west side, and 4 then opens up the hiils
south and east. It has brought into being whole
suburbs, and further towards the Murray—whole
townships. Still, much of the land has changed
hands half a dozen times in the nearly 40 years,
and in view of the injustice to recent buyers it is
said that the Government will not assert its legal
position too literally.
sjjs '
ROAD RIDERS
Who Use
DUNLOP
TYRES
Have a Big Advantage
overßidens of other makes
Owing to their Superior
SPEED a DURABILITY.
All last reasons big Road Races
were won on these nneOpeedTyres.
No other tyre is 5o Good oOofest.
Bevare of Imitations. Sample section of
Road Racing Coyer, posted on application.
w\\
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z,


JU
e=?
V '
Q
fumy
0r How idle the clatter
of competitive claims when
rery World’s Great Race is won on
L
TYRES.
To instance a few The Grand Prix
Targa Florio Cup; Catalonia Cup;
Targa Bologna ; Vanderbilt Cup ;
American Grand Prix. These are
V just a lew mind, and YET you
\ wonder what tyres you i
\Nt should buy.
2
o
5?
&
r
y
e.«a
m
WIN ALL THE
WORLD’S
GREAT RACES
Barnet Giass Rubber Co«
ltd., MEL3OURNH, SYDNEY,
BRISBANE and ADELAIDE.
ANDREW McGEE
3/0
Neat in shape—free drawing 1 —•
made from real French Briar Root,
and sold to you at such a reason-
able price.
McGEE’S French Briar Pipes
come to you asa boon and a smoking
investment you’ll never regret- .
Either of the two illustrated will
please you. Posted anywhere for
Bd. extra.
4/G
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist & Gentlemen’s Hairdresser,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, cr. HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SALOON OPEN ALL DAY WEDNESDAY.
hi
“AT YOUR
SERVICE.”
■ ■ ■
CONCERNING
CINEMATOGRAPHY.
We are Cinematograph Experts, and carry the
largest stock of machines and apparatus in
the State,
No other Firm in Australia has so varied a stock
of up-to-date accessories.
We have a regular supply of films to the extent of
200,000 feet, and are regularly adding new
pictures.
WE MAKE FILMS.
We sell, we let out on hire, we repair Films.
Our prices are bedrock ones, our charges
moderate.
JORDAN’S,
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA .
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkcand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention This Bulletin.] [3
King’s Norton
Cartridges
It’s not for Miniature Rifle Range
shooting alone that “King’s Norton”
cartridges excel. The hollow pointed
bullet is a splendid sporting cartridge.
Sold by all Ammunition Stores
Agents
THE COLONIAL AMMUNITION CO.
1 a * °' MELBOURNE
VICTORIA
?5f
If you’ve been using' Razors for some time you’ll
know just what’s needed. Then you’d like the “no
worry ” PLUM —and notice its superiority.
Its fine blade gives all-round satisfaction, cuts keen
and remains sharp. We guarantee and keep it in
order two years free of charge.
The PLUM
RAZOR,
Price 10/6,
Post Free.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case 21/-
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Scap, 6d
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
We Crind and Set Razors 1/- each.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
TRY ST IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
esksm
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, ttc-
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the arpe
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale toy all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhta & Co. on each Bottle.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 ‘pa-res, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Th'ibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
IN THE PRESS.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPA RA TION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Melbourne, Sydney, London.
All Prices Nett.
i
Jum
147-49 Elizabeth St.,
MELBOURNE
A luxurious shave
will await, you every
morning if you get
one of these high
quality
MAXIM
RAZORS .
The blades are fin.,
fin., or £in. deep,
with round, square,
or Irish points, and
every razor is sold
under an absolute
guarantee of satis-
faction, or your
money refunded.
You can easily pay
a higher price, but
you cannot get a
better razor. Tost
free to any part of
Australasia for
6s. 6d.
Sole Agent for
Maxim Razors :
Business. Robbery, etc.
The London Magazine gives away the Richest
Women in the World. The Marchioness of Graham has
£5,000,000 sterling. Daughter of the late Duke of
Hamilton, with estates in the Isle of Arran, related
to the Duke of Newcastle, Duke of Somerset,
and Duchess of Devonshire. Famous sportswoman,
and an acting master of hounds. Evinced elec-
tioneering ability on b half of her husband, who
failed to get into Parliament. Baroness Von Eckhard-
stein is worth about as much as the Marchioness of
Graham. Daughter of Maple, the London furniture man.
Her husband was first secretary to the German Embassy
in London. Great sportswoman. The Duchess of Rox-
burgh is also sized up at nearly £5,000,000. Was Miss
Goelet, an American. During the Jubilee she vied with
all in magnificence of costume and splendor of jewels.
Mrs. Green, of New York, has £15,000,000, increased from
£9,000,000 left bv her father. She lives in a £2 a
week boarding-house, and wears painfully cheap attire.
Countess Szechenyi, daughter of Con Vanderbilt, is
worth £2,50u,000, unless the Count has been walking into
it. Frau Von Bohlen, Krupp’s. daughter, is worth
£16,000,000. She lives at Essenmostly, in the grime and
smoke of a busy manufacturing town, and takes the
greatest interest in iter business. Has constructed model
bakeries, slaughterhouses, churches, hotels, bin aries and
museums. Mrs. Russell Sage has £17,000,000 under her
thumb. She was the daughter of a farmer, who lost his
fortune, wherefore she had for a period to toil as a work-
ing girl. Mrs. Weightman Walker, worth £25,000,000 is
the most remarkable woman in the catalogue. She had
a large share in making the fortune, as right-hand
assistant to her father, an Englishman, who developed
enormously successful chemical works in America. She
is a valuable convert to the Roman Catholic Church.
“ Typhoo’s” horrible story : Let me point out
how many infectious diseases—smallpox, typhoid, diph-
theria, etc.—arrive in Australia. They are imported by
the gentle Chow, and in this wise : The great distribu-
tors of all the loathsome diseases common to the Far East
are the pawnshops of Canton and other great Chinese
cities. Hearken to a recital of how they do their deadly
work. These huge shops are absolutely' full of clothing
and everything conceivable under the Chinese sun. It is
spring—the weather is getting warmer. The Chow does
not believe in keeping his house full of tempo-
rarily discarded wearing apparel. He conceives
the idea of “trading'” his cast-off clothes for
money. The pawnshop meets his ends capitally. As
spon as he feels that his clothes are getting too hot for
him, he pays a visit to the nearest mont de pietA, and
there, in company with hundreds of his countrymen and
women, all bent on the same errand, he deposits, say, a
coat, for which he is paid a certain amount and receives
a ticket in exchange. This coat is put on a stack of
dozens and scores of other coats, of all colors, shapes, and
sizes and materials, and each stack is sorted into different
allotments which are all regulated as to price corres-
ponding to the material and quality of the article. A
day or two afterwards, the weather becoming still
warmer, John again repairs to the same place and sheds
another garment. Ultimately he is reduced to a pair of
trousers, attired in which he goes through the summer
months. His superfluous duds have all found a resting-
place in the pawnshop.
In course of time the weather gets colder. And so
he once more visits the pawnshop, armed with his
tickets and a few “ cash.” Say he wants a coat. Upon
shewing his ticket, he is directed to one of the numerous
heaps of coats corresponding to the number of his ticket,
and he then selects one to suit him. By no chance what-
ever will he get the coat he deposited there a few months
past. There is no knowing where the coat selected
originally came from, or upon how many more or less
foul Ohows it has rested. With the coat, so it is with the
trousers and all other articles of clothing.
It will be easy to imagine what condition most of these
garments must be in. Enough said. Now to show the
relation of the above to Australia.
At the present time, many of the large ocean-going
tramp steamers visiting our shores carry crews of Chinese
sailors and firemen, who, the last thing before shipping,
visit the pawnshops. They visit these places to look out
for articles to trade with whilst in the Commonwealth
and M.L.
Arrived in an Australian port, the Chow walks ashore
rather more than “ fully ” clothed. He treks straight for
a fellow countryman, undresses, and gets coin for his ward-
robe.
The clothing he leaves is kept until a chance for sale
presents itself. And so the garments which once formed
part of a heap of clothes in a Canton pawnshop eventually
find quarters upon the back of Ah Li in on the Otago gold-
fields, or Win Sam in the Mildura district, and certainly
will lie worn by Wun Lung when smoking the pipe of
contentment in the back quarters of his fruitshop in
Sydney or Wellington.
It is the Chow’s hideous indifference to the age, smell
or insanifariness of his habiliments that makes this trade
possible. I have known Chows that would wear plague
rats if they were cheap and the Health authorities raised
no objection.
Dear Bulletin, —I have been had ;in fact, not
to put too fine a point on it, utterly and absolutely
spoofed. The other day this advt. appeared in our local
paper
YOUNG MAN, 20 (new arrival), will give services
free for six months to thoroughly learn farm-
ing. Can milk, and plough a little.”
I grabbed pen, ink and paper and got into communica-
tion with this jewel of toil forthwith. Back came the
following artless missive
“ Your letter to hand, arid in reply I beg to state
I shall be pleased to come to you for six months free (in
return for comfortable home) and thoroughly learn fann-
ing. I have had six months’ experience on a farm in
Suffolk, England, and can milk and plough a little,
although I have heard that farming is different, in Aus-
tralia. My age is 20, and when lam2l I come into £BOO,
and I want then to buy a farm of my own. If you engage
me I must ask you to be good enough to. send me a postal
note for rav fare, as I have not it by me. I have now
been in Melbourne six months, and have done no work :
so have only a few shillings left. I can come up at once ,
as I am very anxious to get into the countiy. Please
write me per return, as I have four other replies to my
advt. which I will leave until I hear from you. My de-
scription is sft. Bin., fair, strong build, wearing cap and
blue serge suit.—Yours truly, Algernon Blank.”
I sent him his fare, and patiently awaited his arrival.
He never transpired. Ultimately I discovered that about
14 dozen other farmers of a brain calibre approximating
somewhat to mine had dispatched good, red gold to the
bogus work-seeker. So much for Socialism. It is the sort of
thing that invariably occurs when a Labor Government
gets into power. —Yours,
TROPICAL.
THE STRENGTH OF ANTI-SOSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The party opposed to Socialism wants the enunciation
of a strong* policy of democratic progress by a strong
man at the head of a loyal and united following. paper _
The goat that snares his scanty lunch upon the sunburned
flats,
The homeless cat that steals and gnaws bones left by
better cats,
The lean, chop-chasing hound that hangs around the
kitchen door,
And wolfs the scraps, and wags his tail, and hopes for
something more—
They want a lot, like those that hold this stale, sad,
stupid creed '
Of Anti-Sosh, and wail their wants, a sorry crew, indeed *
But though the goat’s poor luck grow good, and dog and
cat be fed,
Old Anti-Sosh will want its wants from now until it’s
dead.
We need but little here on earth —yet Anti-Sosh and
goats
Do with still less. Buoyed up with hope the Anti-Sosher
floats
A-down the tide of time, and lives—still lives !—on hope,
and talks
And prays for what may never be vvhile Cobden’s spirit
walks.
Hear the strong Anti-Sosher’s prayer, which rolls the
wide world round,
That Providence may prosper him whose principles are
sound,
And save United Anti-Sosh-Bung, bishop, Pharisee,
And Moses of the Book, and him who is beer’s enemy.
The solid Anti-Socialistic parson’s drowsy drawl
The purring of a house-cat is, upon a sunny wall ,
The loyal Anti-Sosher sports a cheap time-server’s fad,
And democratic Anti-Sosbers drivel, being mad.
Oh, strength and progress, meaty words are these—for
proper men !
But when they’re seized by Anti-Sosh, we blush for
others, then ;
For progress is not Anti-Sosh which mumbles through
its hat,
Korean that Anti-Sosh be strong whose strength is found
in Fat !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


I
THE LEADING
LONDON MUSICAL TRADE PAPER,
,' ’ v
in its issue of 27th (larch, 1908, says:
An Australian Industry.
aTSr s: ssz:us.
Probably M itral!! H f N the lndustn ' es of Australia of more than usual significance,
closely in touch with^ 61 ” r, 3 rep ( es *; ntatlve of His Majesty’s Government who was so
men t thn U / Y P f haSe ° f the devel °P ment . or gave more sympathetic encourage-
”h\£ “1, .1nf » l ”“ «■« favorably l„
Piano ind U f r i e/ .S wd ' cd L-ord Northcote was particularly impressed was the
in a thorn m y °a f M f SrS - Beale and Co - of Sydney, which he saw greatly develop
General. He 7 sTw Un l p and p PraCt ' Cal t dUr ‘ ng the yearS ° f hls residence as Governor-
Australian people lanos , too, deservedly become favorite instruments with the
Pian^Vramo ratlon showin S Lad y Northcote assisting in the casting of a Beale-Vader Patent
Sen t O F r D remn e t arS a d" Cata '° gUe IsSUed by the flrm ' Lord Northcote * a ' a °
made by Messrs Renle 'h r We , knawn that he was dee P*y impressed with the progress
Y isrs. Beale and Co., and also with the superior quality of their instruments.
was In h o e th U er lq Dronf n ttt Semen A t the Bea ' e P ' an ° reCelVed at the Exhibition
industries so as oon ° U [ Australlan f ,™ U3ins have qualities to develop their manufacturing
success they at u P aucce L ssf L ully wlth the world - For this they merit the splendid
success they are achieving through their modern progressive methods and enterprise.
BEALE PIANOS were awarded
GRAND PRIX, DIPLOMA OF HONOR,
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
at the London International Exhibition, 1908.
BEALE GRAND PRIX PIANOS WERE ORDERED FOR TWO OF THE NEWEST AND LARGEST
HOTELS IN ENGLAND AND FRANCE.
CATALOGUE FREE.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
378, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the G.P.O.
BRANC " ""a" Street, Adelai
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland. C ” eXt (, * P * 0 *’ Br,sb ane (our only address in Brisban
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
P rice of the best imported instruments.


A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold BIRD and SPRAY BROOCH,
Set Pearl, Ruby, or Turquoise,
5/-.
Sas»'<
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SCROLL AND SPRAY BROOCH,
Set with Amethyst,
7/6-
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold SCROLL AND CRESCENT BROOCH,
Set Ruby or Sapphire,
7/6-
M 2
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar “DINNA-FORGET” BROOCH,
Red, Blue, or Green Stone Centre,
106
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold WISHBONE BROOCH,
Set Ruby or Sapphire,
12/6
skSI
•®§ar
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2-HEART AND FORGET-ME-NOT
SPRAY BROOCH,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS. .
Oct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Pearl, Ruby, or Sapphire,
17/6-
fm
r.Q
BP
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gou BAR BROOCH, Diamond cut,
Amethyst Centre,
17/6-
AN
S-EsU
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 3-BAR SCROLL and BUCKLE BROOCH
20/--
ft)
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-BAR BROOCH, Amethyst Centre,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct. Gold 2-BAR BUCKLE BROOCH,
Set Pure White Pearls,
35/--
SO
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£2.
Larger Diamond, £2/10, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold and Floral Spray BROOCH, set with
Fine White Pearls,
£2/15/.
LNJ&-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Cluster BROOCH, set Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, with Ruby or Sapphire Centre,
£lO
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
The Best You Can Buy.
It’s a pleasure and a satisfaction to know that when you huy from us you get the
best goods obtainable. We manufacture and sell to you direct at prices
much lower than you get elsewhere. Try us once. That s the proof.
DO YOUR
SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
You can rely on getting the
same prompt service that we give
to our. local patrons. Goods of
quality at Sydney prices deliver-
ed to your own home is what we
guarantee.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot Gold
Pin and
Slipper
Charm, ?»/6>
Larger. 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Heart
and Dumbbell
Links, 10/6-
Silver, 2/6,
Initials Engraved,
1/6 extra.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold 1 Hoop
Ring, set fine pure
Opals, £2/10/0
Larger Opals, £3.
OPEN
FACE,
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
“Unrivalled” Knockabout Lever Watches,
J-plate, keyless movement, patent ad-
justed balance, dust and waterproof cases,
20/-.
Higher grades, 25/, 30/, 35/.
Kept in free repair for 1 year.
OUR FREE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Should be in the bands. of every
'economical buyer. Write for a
copy to-day. It contains over
3000 illustrations of Watches,
Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather and Optical . Goods, and
is yours for the asking.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Shield and
Dumbbell Links,
13/6-
15ct Gold, 29 1 /.
Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set Dia-
monds and Rubies,
Sapphires,. or Opals,
£6/10/- Diamonds
and Olivines, £4/10/.
ivd
9ct Gold
Scarf Pin,
set Pure
Pearls,
12/G.
15ct Gold,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Ru-
bies, or Sapphires,
£B/10/. All
Diamonds. £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Collar
Stud, 5/6, 6/6.
15ct Gold, 8/6,
10/. Silver, 1/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set' fine
Golden Sapphire, £3,
£4, £5- Price ac-
cording to size of
stone.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Hand-clasp
Ring, 2J»/.
15ct Gold, £2; 18ct
Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold and Enamel
Post Office or Town
Hall Charm, 7/6-
k
Souvenir
of the South !
POST
10/6
FREE.
tn
POST
FREE.
Rec.N=sso.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. GOLD SOUTHERN CROSS BROOCH,
Set with Australian Rubies or Sapphires.
Post 10/6 Free.
In loot. GOLD, 15/.
It would make a really
acceptable gift for
some of the Folk
in the old
Country.
WRITE FOR
ONE
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Claw-set
Ring, Garnet, Amethyst
Opal, or Topaz, 2JJ>/-
15ct Gold, £2; 18ct
Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct
Rings,
Gold Buckle
17/0- 15ct
m
38394*
10
LADY’S WRISTLET WATCH,' Oxidised Case, Lever
Movement, Morocco Leather Strap, in Green, Black,, and
Maroon, 12/C- Higher Grades, 15/', 17/6, 20/. In
Solid Silver, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/. In 9ct Gold, £2/10/.
18ct Gold, set
Pure Double Cut
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£lO- Emerald
centre, £l2/10/.
9ct Gold Dog
and Kennel
Charm, 7/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold Cross-over
RING, set Pure Dia-
monds and Ruby or
Sapphire, £B/10/.
Set Diamonds, £l2/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Signet
Ring, 20 /• 15ct
Gold, £2; 18ct Gold,
£2/10/. Initials en-
graved free.
The Load Watch
Between Me
6 Thee
i'S™®
Mi- wm
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Mizpah
Heart Charm, S/6-
Smaller, 5/6, 6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold Pendant,
set Fine Pearls and
Tourmalin s or Peri-
dots, £2/10/-
WE’LL SEND
YOU ANY
OF THESE
ARTICLES,
POSTAGE
FREE,
TO ANY
ADDRESS.
SOLID
SILVER,
2 51.
‘ SOLID
GOLD,
IF YOU
DON’T SEE
WHAT YOU
NEED HERE,
WRITE FOR
OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold CHARM,
set Ruby or Sap*
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold
Charm,
Amethyst
Thistle,
I^/0
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting Key-
less Watches, Fully Jewelled,
Perfectly Adjusted, 25/- Higher
Grades, 30/, 40/, 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/.
Guaranteed for 1,2, 3, and 4 Years.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Lace Pin
“Good Luck” Wish
bone Charm, 7/6-
A. SAUNDERS
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller, Silversmith, and Optician, 807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEG'RGE-STREEi, SYDNEY. (opposite new railway station.)
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold SCROLL AND IVY LEAF BROOCH,
Garnet Centre,
6/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold BROOCH, Set with Ruby or Sapphire,
10/6
WHEN: M E
mfmsiSQßP
A FROM
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold MIZPAH AND IVY LEAF SPRA\
BROOCH,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold WISHBONE BEE BROOCH,
Pearls, Rubies, or Sapphires,
- 17/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond Set Hearts,
17/6-
iSamM
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2-Bar WISHBONE BROOCH,
Set Pearls and Ruby, or Sapphire,
15/-.
iSjsca
-;’v-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Battle-axe BROOCH, set Pearl and Sapphire
or Ruby, 17/6-
j A. SAUNDERS,
ct. Gold SCROLL BROOCH, Pearl Set, Sprays and
Bird, or Pearls' and Turquoise.
20/-
,■ k :
W.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Set Diamonds and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
25/-.
m
m
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, Set with Fine Pearls
and Amethyst Heart Centre,
50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold SCROLL BROOCH Set toe Pearls
and Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2-
ntC)o
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Set toe Opals and
4 Pure, Double-cut Diamonds,
£2/10/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set with Fine
White Pearls,
£4.
A. SAUNDERS. ~ .
Did Scroll BROOCH, set Fine Pure Double-cut
amonds, Pearls, and Rubies or Sapphires,
£B/10/-


I English Watches
*
N
ROTHERHAMS
m
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889.
London 1862, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate g/ven
WITH EACH WATCH, j
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Kon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director.
H*cso^
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*o*U*l*S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
I
o
5 ■
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
wra
▼.Vi
JMK
R.
3053
No. 10.
AT THE THEATRE.
How often when at
the theatre have you
felt that need for*
something to drink,
and yet haven’t
known exactly what
to ask for?
Try “0.T.” (mixed
with soda, lemonade
or water) next time,
and you will be de-
lighted with its re-
freshing and exhil-
arating qualities.
It’s the ideal win-
ter beverage —the
beverage of health
and refreshment.
Sold by . r . . j
grocers, hotels,!
chemists
every,
where,
but insist
on the
genuine
“0.T.”
RICHARDSON fr MELDu
WHISKY
BRANDY
wine on
BEER o,
MAKES A
DELICIOUS
DRINK-
ALSO THE
BeST
■LIQUEUR
R^TERMCALS
u\
». I
\COL.D g
XJ
JDIXON&O
A CHEAT CURE
for* utcnCESTio/f
STEVENS Small Bore Rifles are not intended for
Kangaroos and Big Game—for small game and
RECORD TARGET SHOTS they have no equal.
We manufacture Rifles, Shot Guns, Pistols, Rifle Telescopes,
etc. All Progressive Dealers handle STEVENS.
J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL CO.,
546 BROADWAY,
CHICOPEE FALLS, MASS., U.S.A.
41
Combination Couch and Bed-
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
S 3
CLOSED AS COUCH.
Shi
”^*=*^3k4r.«
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. j in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
— — SYDNEY.
<&)
tm,
oooocol \
x /I* E'
W*
m
Sh
V
V
Zt
If we COULD MAKE YOU UNDERSTAND
that we WANT TO SEND YOU AN AB-
SOLUTE GIFT, you would READ EVERY
WORD OF THIS ADVERTISEMENT,
and answer it AT ONCE.
Send ns your Name and Address and we will send
yon, FRBB, an exquisite Gold-finished Merry Widow
Brooch. We do this to advertise our Aluminium Egg
Separators, 12 of which we send you with the Brooch
to sell for us at 6d. each. Return ns the money
collected, and we will send you, FREE, the premi-
urns you choose
big illustrated
sent with the
Every prize
money refunded.
Never before
gathered to-
array of beauti-
tive Premiums,
or is made of
all metals, Alu-
cellent value for
After receiving
leave one with
from our
Prize liist,
Separators,
guaranteed or
lias there been
gether such an
ful and dist-in c-
The Egg Separa-
that lightest of
minium, has ex-
-6d., sells on sight.
each of your 12
neighbours—tell them to try It. You call next day,
if they find it satisfactory they buy one. if not, they
return it to you; in this way the Separator sells
itself. IVere our Separators not what we claim of
them, we would not ask you to leave them on trial in
this way. Minors must not apply unless with parents
consent. We send the Beautiful Merry Widow Brooch
free with the 12 Separators. Write at once,
before others get ahead of you. This is at least worth
investigating, as there is no money required.
ALUMINIUM MANUFACTURING COY.,
346 George Street, SYDNEY.
Warehouse: Rear Bank of Australia.
ConiuriM Tricks. Puzzles.
Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES
A Puzzle Pocket Knife
is one of the most useful
novelties obtainable.
Best quality steel blade,
buff horn handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut as
well as to open. Makes
a splendid knife for
general use, also a
superior rabbiter’sknife.
Price, with full direc-
tions. 2/2, post free
anywhere.
Send for our new Illus-
trated Catalogue—just
published.
Wholesale and Retail.
The MULTIPLYING and VANISHING BILLIARD BALL TRICK.
UNIQUE BILLIARD BALL.
By far the best and most effective billiard
ball trick ever invented. This is a superior
method to any other billiard ball trick ever
yet performed. The pecularity of it is that
the balls can be given for examination as
they are produced, to show they are solid.
The performer having turned up his sleeves
and shown his hands empty, gives a minia-
ture billiard ball, about one inch in diame-
ter, for examination. The audience being
i satisfied, he takes it in his left hand and
passing his right hand over it shows two.
Again a mystic pass, and there are three,
which he shows are quite solid. The audi-
I ence now see, to their astonishmet, four
' balls. These gradually vanish one after the
other, till there is only one left, which is
again passed round for examination. An
adequate description cannot be given of this
most delightful effect. If is one of the
prettiest little sleights seen for a long time.
The billiard ball set is made in ‘•ivorine,”
and can be made in any size. The illustra-
tion will give our customers some idea of
the effect that can he obtained with this complete set The sleeves are turned
back whilst performing this trick the whole time, the hands shown empty, and
at any minute, whilst the trick is being performed, the halls can be passed for
inspection.
This trick requires no sleight of hand, and can be performed by any person.
The balls can be made to multiply or vanish at the will of the operator.
Price (with full Instructions), 1/6; or post free anywhere for 2 /~
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between Georg:e and Pitt Streets, Sydney
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH,
Post Free 6d. from "Th«
Bulletin ** Office


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.
X
sv
&
&V 1
THE
J^AICOCK
'f/ Table
Jf IS THE
f MONARCH
• • OE ■
Billiard
Tables.
fV
Av
<o
Sr
%
$S
S?
J**
MEDALS
Mm
AWMW
Wo VVotYver wXJfcovft vt \ seut V ox\ request.
V<
c//etary actaptec/to c/?e prow/tp o'/pest/ve powers
Milk Food N?l I Milk Food N? 2 I Malted Food N 93
from 6/rtt to 3 mortis I from 3to 6 mor Ms I from 6 moatt/s upwards.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
XJnder Vice*Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladles’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
Transformations from £3 15s. Fringes from 7/6. Natural Hair Pads from 21/- Tails from 7/6.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
I
BOOMERANG
m
cm
awarded
If GRAND PRIX
A.TT XJHLE
FMNCO -RBITISH EXHIBITION
"O
% CQ
THAT’S ALL
JUST SAY
o
o
and then you will he sure of getting a whisky made from the
purest materials, a whisky best for health and best for pleasure ;
and with a uniformity of flavour, which can only be guar-
anteed in a whisky offered by the proprietors of a distillery
devoting their whole production to their own brand.
The proprietors of the Stromness Distillery,
which is the oldest, farthest north distillery, have
been making 0.0. (Old Orkney) for generation
after generation. 0.0. possesses that delicate
flavour and exquisite aroma so rarely to be found
in whisky; and as they always hold in their own
bonded store a ten years supply, you can always
rely on getting it exactly the same, no matter
in what part of the world you are.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining 0.0. please write direct
to the d.stillery giving name of your usual store.
j. & J. Me. CONNELL, Ltd., Stromness
Distillery, Orkney, Scotland.
r
v
Edison’s Latest
is tHe
AMBEROL RECORD
THIS marvellous production retains all the beauty of
the famous Edison two=minute records, yet plays
for double the time.
For four full minutes the Amberol runs, and this
gives an opportunity for long songs and selections to
be fully reproduced. The advantage is obvious.
The Amberol is a revelation in phonography, and
the new records only cost 2/= each. Already seventy
splendid items have been listed, and there are more
to follow.
Amberol Records cannot be played on the “ Gem,”
but all other Edison Phonographs will take them by
using two attachments —a differential gear and a new
reproducer. The prices for these in the Common=
wealth are —
ATTACHMENTS FOR
STANDARD PHONOGRAPH 255.
HOME PHONOGRAPH - 355.
TRIUMPH, and other types 355.
The two=minute records will still continue to be
made, and now that the New Horn Equipment is
attached to all phonographs the rendition is simply
perfect.
Call on your nearest dealer for a list of the seventy
new records, and hear a few of them.
It Plays for FOUR MINUTES
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH 00. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.


GABY BORN WITH
TERRIBLEECZEMA
Which Spread Over Body, Head and
Limbs—No Rest or Sleep for
Mother or Child—Doctor Would
Not Let Him be Bathed —Tiny
Sufferer Grew Worse Every Day,
FOUND A PERFECT
CURE IN CUTICURA
“My little boy was born with his legs
and the lower part of his body covered
with eczema. I told the doctor about
it. He gave me a lotion for it and told
me not to wash the little one. I car-
ried out my orders until his head, face
and shoulders were covered with the
humour. Then I informed the doctor
that the lotion was doing no good. He
gave me a different lotion and an oint-
ment, but still insisted on saying not to
bathe the baby. I used the remedies
but he got no better. There was no
rest, no sleep for baby or myself and I
was worn out. Baby was very thin
and seemed to be getting worse every
day. I resolved to give the Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment a trial. I
am thankful to-day that I did for one
set cured him. He is as fat now and
sleeps as well as any child of fifteen
months and I still use Cuticura Soap for
his bath. Mrs. Gauld, Oldboghead
Rothienorman, Aberdeenshire, Scot'
land, Jan. 15, 1908.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
SANATIVE
Antiseptic Cleansing Is Best
Accomplished by Cuticura.
Women, especially mothers, find Cuti-
cura Soap, Ointment and Pills the pur-
vv
est, sweetest and most
effective remedies, for
preserving, purifying
and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair and
hands, for the treat-
ment of inflammatory
and ulcerative condi-
i tions, as well as for re-
storing to health,
strength and beauty
pale, weak, nervous.
prematurely faded, run-down women!
a c , ura o ¥ m ? dies are sold throughout the world.
Set r^ tea Cures. Depots: London, 27,
An^frnHn 011 ?? r r Sc, ' : Paris. 5. Rue de la Paix;
frnnnn a, T ?!v T ° wns * Co., Sydney; South Atrlca,
tw2°s’ Cape Town, etc.; U. S. A., Pottej
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
If AT PEOPLE are a BURDEN to
1/111 themselves and OBJECTS of
RIDICULE to others,' and cannot
possibly enjoy GOOD HEALTH.
Our NORMAL HERBAL OBES-
ITY CURE will REDUCE vour
PAT quickly, safelv, and 'per-
manently. Send for a FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 2, 44 CASTLE RE AGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THIN EAK - NERVOUS, scraggy,
" FLA T-CRESTED, run-down
nnd UNDEVELOPED MEN and WOMEN
If you want to add flesh, be made
plump, stronsr, healthy and vigorous
d r f?!; a FR EE TRIAL SAMPLE of
MACULA” NERVE FOOD and
I*LESH DEVELOPER.
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
Dept. 4,
44 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
/
Try this
SPECIAL
line of
DERBY
SHOE,
in Welted or
Pump Soles,
best Glace Kid,
with Patent
Caps and
Cuban Heels.
Price,
16/6.
Postage 9d.
extra.
If cleaned with Leeming's Cazeka Shoe Paste (6d.
per tin) the wear is'guaranteed.
Send for Price Lists—Free. ’Phone 1799.
LEEMING’S SHOE STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; and
1 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
e/V@)
Glycerine and “ Benzoe ” Soaps
now so much in demand are
PURE Glycerine Soaps
and soften the skin so that Chilblains, Chaps and
“ Redness ” are prevented.
Chilblains, etc., are caused chiefly through the use of
inferior Soaps, which, instead of soothing- and softening
the skin, set up an irritation on account of the inferior
ingredients used in their manufacture.
GLYCERINE SOAPS are obtainable from all
Chemists and Storekeepers throughout Aus-
tralasia and New Zealand.
0
NAPOLEON
SAID
" An army marches on its stomach."
By that he meant that half-starved
men are not strong enough to march.
And you know that. Half-fed men
and women are not stroog enough,
either for work or play. Indigestion
means slow starvation The people
who tire and become depiessed, who
feel life a burden and who go listlessly
to their day's work, would find life
enjoyable if they set their digestion
right with Mother Seigel’s Syrup—
the digestive tonic compounded of
roots and herbs Test it yourself.
I suffered greatly fiom Asthma and In-
digestion. f could not sleep at night from
Asthma, nor digest the little food I ate
After many other medicines had failed I
was quickly cured, two > ears ago, by Mother
Seigel's Syrup."
Extract from letter of Mr. Wu Law
408. Ann Street. Biisbane, Queensland!
November jji d 1908.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
BANDSMEN NOTE,?
SOLE AGENTS for
Hawkes & Son
AND
Courtois’
Band Instruments.
“BEST IN THIS WORLD.”
SUTTONS,
290 & 292 Bourke Street’
Melbourne;
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong.
WHY
STAY
FAT?
When science of-
fers a complete,
'S
positive, safe, lasting and effective cure for
Obesity I It seems a crime nearly, that any
fat woman or man should continue their life
a burden to themselves, and a laughing-
stock for their acquaintances.
“FATCURF”
will reduce your weight by as much as 5
lbs. a week and, at the same time, it is ben-
eficial to your general health. No drastic
dieting or killing exercise is required when
this method is used. It is most beneficial
in all cases of weak heart, especially if
fatty degeneration is suspected. A few doses
improves your breathing. Send 2d. stamp
for FREE TRIAL Sample and particulars
Watworth Co., Suite i s
Linden Court, Casllereagh Si., Sydney.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
... WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Largo Bottle*, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
A HUGE SUCCESS 5
BIRD'S
Bustard
s
Bird’s
Custard with 3ruit
The delictus Fruits of New South
Wales,when form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
and the Youthful alike.
THE
WORLD’S CURE m
FOB
jm Coughs, Colds, Ip
f Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza, Whooping
fjf Cough, Hoarseness, &c<
Tht enormous Success of Owbridge's
x ung Tonic could not have been won r
and continue to increase after
39 YEA S 3, apart from its great in-
trinsic merit as the most efficacious
1 remedy ever known. Beware of Sub •
\stiiutes ; ask for “ QYJBfflDhk /
'■ when buying Lung Tonic and If
JAKE NO OTHER. jof
Sold everywhere
in bottles at Is. ljd..
2s. »d.,45. 6d.,,&i1s
copyright
LOOK FOR THE
WINCHESTER
SEP
TRADE
MARK
A
? if”* *
D
WHEN BUYING
Rifle or Pistol
Cartridges
Winchester Cartridges—
the Red W Brand are
sure fire and accurate. In
Winchester and other
makes of guns they al-
ways give the best results
and results are what
count. They cost a few
pence more than inferior
makes, but they are
pounds better. § 9 &
Sold by Dealers Everywhere.
I
CARBIDE.
For First-Class Results use Best Scandinavian
“ PERNIX” Carbide.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
G 2 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
C'iHEAf’ EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
J Price 2/G. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George.
Street, Sydney.
A housewife, writing lately to an English
paper, complained that the good Australian butter which
she always looked for at the shops was rarely obtainable
under its proper designation. She often got it, she sup-
posed, but it was always sold as Danish butter. Not-
withstanding their talk about the Dm pi re, tradesmen in
r reetrade England are apt to repudiate all connection
with the Empire’s produce. For instance, cheese from
Australia passes for “finest American.” The average
English Imperialistic tradesman wouldn’t be seen dead
with the Empire’s own cheese, unless by accident.
* ■> * *
Heaver writes from Vancouver (B. Colum-
bia): “One of the choicest consignments of grapes and
plums ever seen in tips city arrived here lately from Syd-
ney. The parcel was sold in less than an hour after
its appearance, and tl® merchant consignee vows that he
could have easily disposed of 5000 additional cases had he
had them. The shiprpent went at about 18s. a case. I
think it should become generally known amongst the
growers and shippers of Australian fruits that this West-
ern Canada m rket offers a large demand for their pro-
duce, and that the fruit may be safely shipped to arrive
in good condition. There is, however, one thing that
must be borne in mind, and that is that a lot of care
needs to be taken in the packing. In the case of plums,
every fruit should be Carefully wrapped. Mutton and
butter are shipped here regularly from Australia, like-
wise the various hardwoods of Australia. The local
grocers sell Sydney jam in large quantities.”
<( <l er ” : Unique is H. N. Casson’s new hook on
The Romance of Steel,” the story of a thousand mil-
lionaires, reprinted from Munsky. ‘it ought to instruct
Australia, somehow. Over a thousand fortunes of more
than £200,000 each have been made from United States
lr| o st, ly by working men. A number run up into
millions sterling. Since 1878 Yankees have turned out
more steel than all the world in previous time., The most
lively part of Casson’s book deals with the hu-nt for iron
°. le * Thirty years ago the supply appeared to be running
right out. It was only furnished by the Eastern States.
There was a general quake that the steel industry would
soon be killed. During the nervous time in Pittsburg
Indians kept saying, “Big; iron mountain west of Lake
Superior. All iron.” This became a common joke or
gag, till a whitp man went and found the iron mountain.
Not so good as Mount Morgan, but good enough. How-
ever, this was a wholly exceptional knob, like Mount
Morgan. Nearly all the incalculably rich deposits of iron
about Lake Superior are shovelled up with comparative
ease. Iron is sown, as it were, from sft. to 50ft. deep.
* * * *
“ Steve The awakening of the clerical drudge
to the benefits of trade-unionism will affect the fat and
unholy sweater in more ways than one. In times "one
by, when lumpers, carters and store hands struck work
Fat fell back on his clerks. With a wave of his paw
Adipose would order his clerks to strip off collar, tie and
braces, and bullock freight from store to ship, and vice
versa._ A powerful Clerks Union—and it is going to be
. bigraresC thing in unions in the Commonwealth—
affiliated with the rest of the unions, including the carters
lumpers and storemen’s, will refuse to blackleg when
trouble arises. Writer hopes to be on hand the day an
■ ilficeful of clerks tells the boss that, instead of putting
down pens to help break a strike, they also intend
going on strike out of sympathy. On that dav more
than one very fat and choleric gentleman will drop dead.
“Veritas”: A resident of my State recently
took his wife to a wpll-known herbalist who frequently
sports a huge advertisement in the dailies, and who is
much patronised in consequence. The ladv was suffering
from a form of cancer which had been declared by several
of the leading medicos to be absolutely incurable. The
herbalist carefully adjusted his goggles and put on his
wisest look ; and however little bis real knowledge of
disease may be, he knew' enougli to see that it wasn’t the
usual case in which Nature would effect a cure while he
•scooped in the credit. He took from the table a handful
of seeds and told the husband to plant them, and u'hen
the herb grew to express the juice and apulv it to the
affected part. He added that the cure itself was infal-
lible, and the only drawback was that the medicine was
so strong that it often killed the patient before that suf-
fering person had time to recover. The seeds have b* en
duly planted, and the result is being awaited. There is
only one point about which the husband is sceptical. He
can’t quite make out how those particular seeds, which
were so essential to the cure, happened to be lying all
alone on the table as they' entered, for the consultation
was not prearranged. But he tries to hope that the herb
nun doesn’t keep a heap of pumpkin seeds handy and
pass them out promiscuously. Anyhow, he paid the
herb fiend £5 ss. ...
The recent partial cornering of the U.S. wheat
market recalls a movement that, so far, hasn’t been much
talked about in this country. Some time back, in Rome—
tlie Italian place Bill Wilks imports his nightmares from
there was established the International Institute of Agri-
culture, the purpose of which is, briefly, to squelch
the speculator in foodstuffs, etc. The Institute
hasn’t got properly into its stride yet, but it
has a permanent committee, which set out to
clear the track by cogitating whether the speculator
really required squelching. After hearing evidence, it
decided that he did ; and, judging from some scraps of
the evidence that have drifted this way, the decision
seems reasonable enough. For instance,' London papers
(28/6/’O7) published this cable from New York “ A
sensational advance in prices took place oh the wheat
markets this afternoon, due to a revised estimate of the
Oklahoma, Kansas, and Texas combined winter yield
which is now placid at 50,000,000 bushels, as compared
with 111,000,000. in 1906. There was a tremendous
covering of shorts on the Chicago market. September
wheat jumped rapidly from cents to 100 cents and
in the New York market from 101§ to 106 cents.” ’
Piesident McCara, of the International Federation of
Cotton Spinners, remembered that—“A few years ago
market manipulators raised the price of raw cotton from
4d. to 7d. per pound. The producers got practically
nothing out of the inflation of price ; the speculators
gamed approximately £100,000.000.”
And further that “ About the same time wheat
operators, by a similar series of unscrupulous manipula-
tions—made possible, as in the case of cotton, by general
IctcJc of information cts to the condition and pvospects of
the. crop —put intotheir own pockets nearly £200,000 000.”
Qther people remembered other things, but all tlie
people who could have testified weren’t called—possibly
beoAuse the Committee reckoned that to examine prac-
tically thefworld’s whole population was too lame a con-
tract. So the Institute decided that the speculator ought
to be suppressed. Unfortunately, the methods so "far
devised for his suppression are too feeble to be worth anv
serious mention.
Tarkwa Main Reef (Africa) shareholders have
approved of the agreement with the Great Firm-al] and
the property is now being sampled by the latter’s experts
London papers reckon there oan be no question as to its
value, as it is on the outcrop of the banket formation
and has the Fanti andr'Ajbbontiakoon—both proved mines
—on either side. Addressing shareholders at the Tarkwa
meeting, Alg.v Moreing asserted that the West African
banket was as rich as, or richer than, that of the Rand
also that working costs would be no greater than at
Jew burg.
THE POOR OLD RICH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chancellor of the Exchequer “ proposes to cover
deficit of nearly £16,000,000 by additional
-Cablegram "’ IH he borne chiefly by the wealthy.”
’, j*,' suVv rea< * future glooms for honest in-
Chained to the rock of State the rich man shortly now
must be, J
His thickly-gilded vitals torn by this wild bird and that,
While various kinds of vulture hatch their clutches in his
hat.
Ah, comfortable kings of coin shall soon be comfortless,
And proud, pink, porkish princes writhe in more or less
distress.
Let, then, the gilt-edged goose upraise his cry, sincere
and strong,
O, Lord of Private Liberty and Anti-Sosh, how long?
Lord of the Stout, how long?”
VICTORIA.
H.


THE WINTER ISSUE OF
THE LONE HAND
published on June Ist, is largely devoted to the SNOW-
SPORTS and SNOW-PERILS of KOSCIUSKO.
PERCY HUN PER, in an informative and
entertaining article, describes the sports of
ski-running, tobogganing and skating that
are now making Kiandra the winter resort
of sport-loving Australians.
DR. H. I. JENSEN tells of the adventu-
rous winter he spent on top of Kosciusko.
NORMAN LINDSAY illustrates the
humors of ski-running.
PROFESSOR DAVID appears (in a
colored frontispiece) in his Antarctic
costume, while
DR. W. G. WOOL NO UGH furnishes
an illuminative character-sketch of his
professorial chief.
As to Literature :
BERTRAM STEVENS treats of the life
and work of Swinburne.
PROF. EMILE SAILLENS, the dis-
tinguished French man of letters, reviews
the art of Henry Lawson.
As to Fidticm :
THE WRITERS include such well-known
names as G. B. Lancaster, T. B. Clegg,
and “ Kodak.”
These, with the three serials—Melba’s Autobiography,
“The Commonwealth Crisis,” and “ River Rovers” —are
a few of the 32 contents of
THE JUNE LONE HAND
By the way, the editorial announcement will be worth the reader's notice.’
On Sale Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
How
its
;/c
dome.
o S
BILL BLUEGUM AT KIANDRA.
The London Bank of Australia Limited
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
DAVID FINLAYSON Esq., Chairman.
GORDON HUNTLY CAMPBELL, Esq.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq.
RIGHT HON. SIR WALTER FOSTER, M.P.
DAVID QUIXANO HENRIQUES, Esq.
ROBERT ROME, Esq.
GEORGE SLADE, Esq.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
Presented at the Ordinary General Meeting of Proprietors,
held at Winchester House, Old Broad Street, EC. (Hall
No. 174), at 1® o'clock noon, on Monday, 3rd May, 1909.
rpHE DIRECTORS present their Report, accompanied, as usual, by. audited Accounts, for the year ended
31st December last. , » „ , ,
The Profits, as shown by the Annual Statement of Profit and Loss, after deducting- Management
Charges and Taxes, amount to .. .. • • • • .... . .. ■ ■ £76,329 8 1
To which is added the amount brought forward .. .. .. .. .. .. 26,526 19 10
£102,856 7 11
After providing for interest at 4J per cent, on the Transferable Deposit Receipts for the year,
amounting to .. .. -• •• •• •• •• •• .. .. .. 42,116 16 9
There remains a Credit balance to be dealt with of .. .. .. .. .. .. £60,739 11 2.
Which the Directors recommend be appropriated as follows :
Dividend of 5£ per cent, on the Preference Shares for the year ended 31st
December, 1908 .. .. .. •• •• •• •• •• £9,456 3 0
Dividend of 4 per cent, on the Ordinary Shares for the same period .. .-. 14,716 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund .. .. •• •• •• •• •• 15,090 0 0
39,172 3 O'
The Balance carried forward to next account .. .. .. .. .. .. £21,567 8 2:
During the year a Branch has been opened at Nambour, with an Agency at Woombye, in Queensland!
The Director retiring under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association is Mr. George Slade, who, being;
eligible, offers himself for re-election.
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse and Co., also retire, and again offer themselves for re-election-..
Warrants for Dividends, less Income Tax, will be payable on and after the 6th May next, to those Shareholders
whose names appeared on the Register on the 19th instant.
By order of the Board,
2 Old Broad Street, E.C., W. H. BARBER,
London, 19th April, 1909. London Manager and Secretary.
BALANCE SHEET, 31st DECEMBER, 1908.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital
Ct,603 Ordinary Shares of
£22 10s. each ..' ..£1,386,067 10 0
17,193 5£ p.c. Cumulative
Preference Shares of £lO
each 171,930 0 0
£1,557,097 10 0
Subscribed Capital:—
49,103 Ordinary
Shares of
ea 2 ch loS .’. £1,104,817 10 0
Less
Uncalled and
Reserve
Liability..£736,s4s 0 0
Callsinarrear 372 10 0
736,917 10 0
Add:— 367,900 0 0
Amount prepaid by Trustees
in respect of Uncalled Capi-
tal and Reserve Liability .. 8,190 0 0
376,090 0 0
17,193 5J p.c. Cumulative
Preference Shares of £lO
each, fully paid .. .. 171,930 0 0
Capital Paid up £548,020 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 20,000 0 0
Balance of undivided Profit ... 60,739 11 2
£628,759 11 2
Transferable Deposit Receipts due 1917 935,523 10 9
Other Deposits and Current Accounts 3,392,486 11 2
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (including reserves for
doubtful debts) 720,326 12 8
Notes in Circulation (secured as per contra) 131,309 10 0
£5,808,405 15 9
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,
Cash Balances,
and Notes
of other
Banks £793,021 15 4
Money at
Call and
Short
Noticein
London 75,000 0 0
Investments
and Bills
Receivable
on band
and in
transitu 686,509 17 3
Investments
held by
Trustees
aa'ainst
Notesin
Circula-
tion .. 132,159 9 0
£1,580569- r T
Bills Discounted, Ad-
vances and other
Assets of the Bank . .3,838,130 4 2:
Bank Premises ~ 383,584 10 Cb
£5,808,405 15 9
STATEMENT OF PROFITS for the year ended 31st DECEMBER, 1908.
Balance of undivided Profits, as per last Report 7. 7 7 7 £SS 859 9 4
Less .-—Dividend for the year ended 31st December, 1907 —
On Preference Shares £9 459 3 q
„ Ordinary Shares ” 12,876 6 6
Transfer to Reserve Fund 10,000 0 0
32,332 9 6
26 526 19 10
Profits in London and in Australia after providing- for Interest due and accrued on Cur-
rent Deposits, deducting Rebate on Bills, and making provision for bad and
doubtful debts .. 157 755 3 q
Less: —Salaries and General Expenses in Australia—including Re-
muneration to Local Directors, Rent, Rates, Repairs, Sta-
tionery, Travelling, etc. £67,563 8 6
Salaries and General Expensesin London —including Directors’
and Auditors’ Fees, Rent, Repairs, Stationery, Tele-
grams, etc .. 10,635 3 11
Land-tax and Tax on Note Issue 3,229 0 6
81,425 14 11
76,329 8 1
102 856 7 11
Deduct Interest at 4J% on Transferable Deposit Receipts .. .. „ t .. 42,116 16 9
Balance of undivided Profits as above £6O 739 11 2:
AUDITORS' REPORT.
We certify that we have obtained all the information and explana-
tions we have required. We have to report that we have examined the
above Balance-sheet with the hooks at the Head Office and, the returns
from the Branches, and in our opinion it is properly drawn up so as to
exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs, accord-
ins: to the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and
as shown by such hooks and returns.
London, 2nd April, 1909. PRICE, WATERHOUSE & CO., Auditors.
D. FJXLAYSON,
B. WALTER FOSTER,
R. ROME,
Directors-
W. H. BARBER,
London Manager and Secretary.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
Income for 1908 15 per
cent, increase on figures
for 1907.
47 per cent, of Total
Funds invested in Govern-
ment Securities.
Directors :
R. M. PHILLIPS, Esq., J.P.,
VICTOR E. LUDLOW, L.R.0.5.1.
L.K.Q.0.P.1.,
CLAUDE MANNING, Esq.,
DAVID W. WATKINS, Esq.
General Manager :
J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary:
FREEMAN J. EATON.
Principal Offices i
VICTORIA—I4B Quren Street, Melbourne ; NEW SOUTH WALES—3O Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; QUEENSLAND—Metropolitan Buildings, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ..,
Packet of Ten ... ... 53


Insist on V-I-C-A-R-S’
ECAUSE VICARS’ TWEEDS are all wool,
pure wool, and nothing but wool, grown in
Australia, and manufactured in Australia. The
imported article is a manufactured mixture of
wool and any old “ fillings,” rags, rubbish, and
the rest ergo, Shoddy.” Don’t be put off by tailors’
statements that English tweed can’t be beaten, or maligning
allegations that Australian Woollens won’t hang. There can
be nothing better than pure wool made into Australian
./ •
,4 .
woollens, and its a privilege for every Australian to wear
them. As a guarantee against substitution, Vicars’ name and
\
trade mark is stamped on every two yards of Vicars’ Tweeds.
As for Vicars’ MARRICKVILLE TRAVELLING
~being all wool and nothing but wool —they are
warm, and won’t wear out. If you have any difficulty in
procuring either Vicars’ Tweeds or Vicars’ Marrickville Rugs,
or you don t like the pattern, send a postcard to
JOHN VICARS & CO,
Marrickville.
Distributing Agents : W. S. COOK & SON,
York Street, Sydney ; Flinders Lane, Melbourne.


Indigestion nearly always disturbs the
sleep, and is often the cause of insomnia. Many
cases have beempernmnently cured 1 by Chamber-
lain’s Tablets.*
The Reason Why the Old and Middle-aged Should Use
the Rifle Telescope.
From the age of 40 and up we are all afflicted with
what the learm d oculist would call Prebyopia, or, in plain
English, old sight. The muscles that operate the
accommodation of the eye for different distances become
hard, and no longer able to perform their office. While
we are able to see distinctly at a distance, objects closle
to the eye become blurred or indistinct. As we aim at
the bull’s-eye 200yds. away with the old peep and globe
sights, the bull’s-eye is fairly clear, but the pin head or
aperture is blurred, and our aim is uncertain. With the
Stevens Telescope we see not the bull’s-eye, but a minute
image of it formed by the object glass and magnified by
the eye piece. The formation of the bull’s-eye is at the
place where the cross hairs are laid —both on the same
plain, and equally distinct, enabling the old to see just as
plainly as the young. You have said, and we have heard
you say it—“ If we could only be set back SO years that
we might compete with the young men without a
handicap.” Well, this is exactly what the Stevens
Telescope will do for you.. Be sure to send for beautifully
illustrated 32-page catalogue, devoted to the extensive
line of Stevens Rifle and Pistol Telescopes. Write to the
J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co., Chicopee Falls, Mass., for
this valuable book of reference. Forwarded free upon
application.*
Every man can improve his youthful appearance,
because Messrs. Craig and Aitken, of 654 George Street,
Sydney, have placed within the scope of all their wonderful
moustache producer—Capillarine. However hairless
your face, however slight the down on your lips, Capillar-
ine has a marvellous effect, forcing the young hair to
grow, nourishing the roots, and producing a luxurious,
handsome moustache in a very short while. Capillarine
has never failed to do its work. Its action is prompt and
permanent. The price is 10s. 6d., and will he forwarded
to any part of the world by Messrs. Craig and Aitken
post free.*
IN
BANANA LAND.
The Queensland Government lately sent
an aged and respectable public servant named
Ranking to Maoriland to report on that State s
No-License System and the results thereof. The
aged and respectable Ranking came back and
said that the Maoriland No-License system wasn’t
worth adoption in Queensland, and . by so doing
he roused the aggregate Maorilander, who has a
very high opinion of himself, to great fury.
Ranking said in effect that the No-License System
had merely substituted private soaking for public
drinking, which wasn’t a surprising conclusion by
any means. For in a Maoriland No-License dis-
trict, though you can’t buy liquor in a hotel
at so much a drink, you can acquire it whole-
sale by the case or keg. Consequently, the man
who used to takeone or two drinks in a hotel with
the public eye upon him as a sort of censor, now
consumes as many drinks as he likes out of his
own private keg or case at home, with no public
eye upon him. Probably he isn’t run in so fre-
quently, for whereas the police arrest the man
who falls down amid a great odor of beer
in the street, they don’t arrest the one
who falls down amid a great odor of rum in
his own house. Also, there is less visible
drunkenness in the streets, because the
man who used to get drunk and then go
home now goes home and then gets drunk.
All the same, the Maorilanders here deny Rank-
ing’s statements about the increase of drinking in
a very lofty manner, and are plainly sorry for the
old man’s ignorance. And at the same time their
own official statistics shout this sort of thing at
them :
Consumption op beer ter annum for every 1000 in-
habitants : In 1898, 7995 gallons, steadily rising to 9649
gallons in 1907 (latest figures).
Ditto spirits : In 1898, 634 gallons. Steady rise to 766
gallons in 1907.
Ditto wine: In 1898, 139 gallons, rising to 161 gallons
in 1907.
Therefore it is hard to see what right the Maori-
landers have to complain of Ranking.
A MISUNDERSTANDING.
MRS. PUBLICHOUSE : “ Maria, I thought I told yer to ’eat hup them, pics.”
MARIA: “So I did, mum. I cat ’em all.”
MRS. P. (enraged): “They was for my lunoh—not yours. I told yer to ’eat ’em hup, not
HEAT ’em.”
Passed to the Great Beyond, octogenarian
Daniel Dona von. He knew more of the habits
and customs of the blackfellow than anyone else
in Bananaland, bar Tom Petrie. He schoonered
to Australia in ’3B, an orphan from India, with
a number of other fatherless boys and the first
batch of coolies which cast the shadow of its
aggregate turban on Australian shores. The boys
on arrival at Brisbane were sent up in drays to
the Tent Hill squattage, owned by Gordon Sande-
man. The blacks, for reasons wholly unknown,
decided that Donavon was the reincarnation of a
dead warrior of great tonnage and poundage in
his day. So they taught the boy their language
and lore, and venerated him, and he became a
sort of adopted Binghi. Donavon pub-kept in
Toowoomba at onetime; and finished his work-
ing-life as a forest-ranger—which is by no means
the same thing as a bushranger.
Captain William Town ley, of Bananaland,
sent in his earthly papers the other day. He was
a; Lancashireman who had armied and navied
a good deal in his time. (For instance,
he was an Indian Mutiny survivor.) He
struck Queensland in ’63, and went squat-
ting. Five years later he linked himself
with the Civil Service as gold commissioner
at Gympie, and later at the Gilbert. Then at
Rockhampton he was P.M. in ’7l, and later at
Ipswich. He was put in charge of the St.
Helena penal settlement in ’B2, and two years
after saw him sheriff and comptroller of prisons.
In ’9B he was given the post of Public Service
Commissioner, where he remained til] ’Ol, when
he was retired. A painter, a dramatist, a singer,
and the possessor of an evergreen smile, Townley
the versatile was a general favorite.
“Flinderino”: The landing of the Duke
of York from the Ophir at Melbourne in 1901 was
a tame affair compared with the landing of
Tommy Burns at Cairns. The palatial steamer
Mourilyan was chosen to convey the ex-champion
and his suite from Townsville to Cairns. It was
intended that the Powerful or the Dreadnought
or the Cerberus should escort the Mourilyan up
the coast, but, owing to some bungling .or red-
tapeism, the ironclads did not put in an ap-
pearance. All Cairns gathered on the beach
and cheered when the steamer hove in sight.
Then a rush was made to the wharf, but the
police and the Harbor Board officials had erected
a strong barricade, and only a select few were
admitted on the jetty. The crowd pressed hard
against the fence and spread itself along the
water-front, and became greatly excited. Some
enthusiasts actually waded out knee-deep in the
mud to get a closer view of the man who didn’t
wallop Johnson. As the noble vessel glode up to
the wharf the bosun or the mate or the cook or
somebody on board threw the heaving-line, and
the small bag of lead at the end of the line smote
the president of the reception committee in the
middle of his white waistcoat, and he sat down
quite sudden. All eyes searched the decks for a
glimpse of Tommy Burns, but Thomas was hiding
in the refrigerator or in the bar. The mob yelled
for Tommy and demanded a view of his dial, but
all in vain. The chairman of the reception com-
mittee, who had somewhat recovered from the
temporary indisposition in his waistcoat, addressed
theassemblagefrom the upper deck, and'announced
that the official landing would not take place until
2 p.m. Some of the crowd cleared home for a bit
of dinner, but all were back again before 2 o’clock.
A contingent of Chows from Chowtown and a mob
of blacks from the adjacent camps swelled the
ranks of the onlookers. The Cairns stray goats
also gathered round. The town band took up a
position at the foot of the jetty and played tune-
ful ditties. At 2 o’clock pnnctually.'amid cheer-
ing, throwing of boomerangs, bleating of goats,
flourish of trumpets and general discord, Tommy
and his cobbers stepped down the gangway and
proudly strutted along the jetty. A special cab,
tastefully decorated, was in waiting for the party.
The band, playing “ See the Conquering Hero
Comes,” or some similar tune, headed the proces-
sion to the hotel. The prancing of horses, the
cheering and the general enthusiasm that accom-
panied the grand procession beggars description,
which has already been beggared so of ten I wonder
the police don’t run it in for vagrancy. During
the afternoon Mrs. Burns and her sister held a
reception on the hotel balcony, and Mrs. Ah Sing
and Black Nellie from the four-mile camp called
and left their cards.
“ Politicus ” : The frantic efforts of the
Government to electioneer on all and every occa-
sion provides a straw that very well shows the
way the wind blows. No opportunity is too trivial
to be lost. A Hamilton shire council meeting,
lately, \vas seized upon by the Govern-
ment Whip to pronounce on the position and
make a fairly important statement; and the
local member, who had been wobbling all
the week, got up and expressed his loyalty.
Then the Home Secretary mopped up the
creche meeting, and held forth on the splen-
did democracy of Willum K. (Mrs. K. having
arrived in the motor car), and in heroic tones
declared that the Government was not so shaky
as some people appeared to think. The intention,
if the Ministry can hang together long enough, is
to rush through a Bill for the re-distribution of
seats —and thus wipe out Bulloo, Clermont, and one
or two other Labor strongholds. Of course some of
these constituencies ought to be wiped out. For
Bulloo to return one member fdr 731 electors
when Toombul has only one for over 6000 electors
is a disgrace. Bulloo, Burke, and Carpentaria are
three shocking examples of the rotten borough
industry.
Incentive.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LET lean Ambition seek its goal; fat
Wealth its hoard increase,
Sour Vanity achieve its gauds, and social
triumphs please
Dyspeptic dames and feline fops; beneath the
aching sky
The living hosts, all graveward bound, with groan
and laugh go by.
Ido not enter for the firize. The gold for which
men stint.
Cheat, lie and perjure, rob and kill, fresh
sovereigned from the Mint,
Is not more precious in itself, more perfect in
the scale
Supreme of earthly loveliness than any simple,
frail,
Sweet, yellow buttercup that lifts for any plough-
man’s eye,
Its burnished coin of floral gold from Earth’s un-
erring die.
Nor doth the stamped, white silver seem a fairer
thing to me
Than scales upon the salmon’s side or moonlight
on the sea.
Write not my name upon the lists ! Will any
glory save—
Though I grow' great as Buonaparte—my body
from the grave ?
For where is Artaxerxes now? He shareth with
the hound
That licked his royal feet in fear, a common couch
of ground.
The flesh of fossil beasts and birds ; the mouse
and mastodon,
The flesh that quivered under-claw in primal
forests gone ;
The hearts that gloried with the gods, or cowered
’mid the swine,
A heritage of sure decay at birth received—like
mine.
Let others to the Strident Way ! The proud
inventor feeds
With each discordant, new machine but new-
created needs;
Each fresh philosophy in turn the last entire dis-
proves,
And further from the searcher’s grasp Life’s hidden
truth removes.
All such is Waste and emptiness. My son, but
small per cent.
Of what then strive and sicken for repays the
effort spent.
This spiral whorl that man calls “Life,” this
hurry that we boast
As “Modern Progress” in our pride, is tinsel at
the most.
I will not caper in the dance ; too well the tune I
know ;
’Twas old when Nineveh was young ; amid pre-
glacial snow'
Thej' played it on the boulevards, millennia ago.
When Paris yet a village was of hungry Eskimo.
I will not stumble in the race, with ever-failing
feet,
Where conquest ends in slavery, and triumph
spells defeat.
My house is on the hilltops reared ; the paths
that glamor me
Lie out across the level land and by the level sea.
As Esau have I sold my place; but yet, a
millionaire,
I draw entail my heritage of life and love and air ;
Red health at riot in the veins, the flesh-pot on
the fire,
Full larder and a covering—what more si rail man
desire?
Free Nature’s coffers, spilling wealth, red draperies
of Morn
That riehen o’er the east when Day, another
prince, is born :
The noontide shadows falling cool through forests
darkly fair.
The star tiaras that the Night sets in her raven
hair,
These dower rich my pleasured eyes ; and in my
ears the strong,
Majestic music of the winds that dog white flocks
along
Blue parks celestial, till the rain, their shepherd
grey and old.
In spreading mantle comes again, to gather them
in fold ;
The arias of running streams, the thunder’s
Marseillaise.
The aves and the glorias a vagrant night breeze
plays
On choric harps of forest oak, wild marches of the
seas.
And insects droll and singing birds—these make
my melodies.
The Garden of my Choice distils rare scents from
flowers unseen.
Though never meddling gard’ner delved among
its arbors green ;
And, save by fickle w'inds, unswept its shaded
walks and ways
Still bloom in constant fruitfulness unsown, thro’
winter days.
The Temple of my Worship knows nor heresies
nor creeds,
No pontiff walks its lofty aisles ; no kneeling pre-
late reads
His liturgies of human wants ; but all its shrines
untrod
Are loud with adoration, and the nearer Voice of
God.
So would I that my days shall pass: And if this
hand record.
From all the Beauties of the World, but one
eternal word :
I know my days will not be vain ; nor shall I
weigh the cost
Of earthly riches unattained or human glories lost.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 22, 1909.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Oh. the irony of fate ! Oh, the fatuousness of
events and the ponderosity of atoms ! Alas, for
the spotless banner of White Australia ! Ichabod !
Likewise Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin. ! The
first prize in the Eight-Hour art-union has been
won by a Chinese market gardener—one Ah Slug
or thereabouts.
Another batch of Buffers fluffed last Monday
evening at the Commercial Rowing Club’s dance.
Miss Vera Macdonald, in a frock of shimmering
softness, acquired the popular vote. The room
was thick with mere men unable to get partners,
but they kindly accommodated themselves to cir-
cumstances and the supper.
What a wonderful thing is expediency. When
William Kidston got the time of his life at Rock-
hampton last Monday night, the local press took
a firm hold of the editorial blue pencil, shot out
about three-fourths of the interjections, and
sprinkled in a few dozen flakes of applause, set up
double column headings, and there you were,
you see. Meanwhile another feather is alleged to
have blown out of the Government barnyard in
the person of Herbertson, of Port Curtis, and this
falling away, following upon the recent defections
of Douglas and Redwood, makes a serious hole in
the Ministerial numbers.
The presentation to Lady Chelmsford took place
on Friday afternoon. The deed was ably accom-
plished by Mayoress Thos. Wilson, who clothed
her graceful lines in prunelle cloth, much braided,
and a white satin topee upon which diverse roses
climbed. Frances Chelmsford swathed her shape-
liness (and your new Governoress is decidedly
shapely) in a cream hand-embroidered confection,
and a hat that wept tears of white lilac all over
its brim.
The baubles in question are aquamarines. The
pendant is a big square stone, the size of a postage
stamp, wreathed about with ribbons and true
lovers’ knots of platinum-set diamonds. A big
diamond forms the final drop, and the platinum
chain is studded at intervals with the same pretty
stones. The earrings are just aquamarines, sus-
pended under two diamonds. And the Hon.
Joan came in fora girlish pendant of aquamarines
and pearls, suspended from a gold chain. Hardy
Bros., of this city, did the work.
A struggling mass of femininity wedged itself
into the inadequate space of the mayoral cham-
ber and overflowed into the vestibule. The
address had a genuine ring about it that
was too much for the vice-regal feelings.
Your future Governoress spoke in a quavering
voice of the friendships she had made here, and
with each and all of the subscribers she shook a
flapper and said a word or two of good-bye.
Amid the crush and the draped bunting and the
vegetation, tea and other non-intoxicants were
served. The ladies of the Mothers’ Union got an
opportunity of handing over an orchid-decorated
address and a gigantic prayer book, together with
a promise that they would uphold the Union
“for ever.”
The rhoment the success of the undertaking was
assured, and Mrs. Mayoress had announced her
intention Of entertaining the subscribers at after-
noon tea, the hon. treasurer was rushed with heavy
subscriptions from a number of the kind of women
who are always anxious to shout with the biggest
crowd. But the moment' the accumulated cash
was sufßeient for requirements the lid of the fund
was slammed and locked, leaving these late comers,
whose excuses for not coming earlier were varied
and humorous, out in the cold world, with but
their uncashed cheques to soothe their wrath and
temper the chill wind of lost opportunity.
You will see the pendant the day Lady Chelms-
ford plants her nicely-booted No. 4 on your quay,
for she means to wear it on her arrival.
While the State vice-royalty was thus being,
felted the extra-special Excellency or over-lordi
was enjoying a strenuous week’s soldiering at;
Grantham, which is halfway between this city
and the highlands of Toowoomba. Saturday was;
a field day, and half Brisbane journeyed up for the;
review. The Dudley Earl, with two aides in attend-
ance, told the assembled warriors some home-truths;
on the matter of caring for their horses. Later in the
day, the other half of Brisbane and a smattering of
Toowoomba society assembled at Gatton, five
miles off, and there was an afternoon’s sport, an
afternoon tea, and finally great cheering as the
Governor-General motored off. I saw the Beit
couple, the Bellevue Taylor girls, Mr. and Mrs.
Lyttleton Groom, two wives of the two Captains
Darvall, Mrs. Clifton (a pretty South African),
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Robertson, Mrs. and Miss
Lyster, the Geo. Perry couple, and Dr. Eleanor
Bourne in the enclosure; also Mrs. Redwood and
half a dozen members of Parliament, “all airing
with no little skill their various opinions.”
Breathe it not above a whisper, but something
has gone wrong with the cooler in the Milk Insti-
tute, and unless the accumulated wisdom of three
medical men, two engineers, and a dozen experts
can put it right this week, the babies, who are
already awaiting with their tongues out for the
opening of the establishment, will have to go on.
waiting.
The Masonic Grand Lodge Ball froze gently at
the South Side Hall on Thursday eve. Not even
the final appearance of Mr. and Mrs. Chelmsford
could keep the mercury above zero.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


THE KAMERUNGA STATE NURSERY.
Queensland has established an Experimental Nur-
sery in its Tropical North.
Thousands of plants from this Nursery are dis-
tributed free to the settlers on the soil.
Experiments have shown that the following valuable
commercial tropical plants and trees can be suc-
cessfully grown in Queensland:
Rubber Tea
Cocoa Kola. Nut
Coffee Kapok
Hemp Tobacco
Cotton Rice
Spices Arrowroot
Ginger Turmeric.
Of rubber-producing plants the following varieties
are flourishing , AND ARE BEING DIS-
TRIBUTED AMONG THE PRIMARY
PRODUCERS OF QUEENSLAND FREE:
Para Rubber (Hevea brasiliensis),
Central American Rubber (Castilloa
elastica ),
Rambong or Assam (Ficus elasticaj,
Ceara Rubber (Manihot gldziovii),
African Rubber (Funtumia elastica),
Maniciba Rubber (Manihot sp.),
New Guinea Rubber (Ficus rigo).
In rubber alone Queensland offers fortunes to the
capitalists of the world.
Queensland To-day: the Queen State
of the Commonwealth.
No. XXI.
WEALTH IN TROPICAL CULTURE.
By J. D. FITZ GERALD.
The mode of operations at the Gatton State Agri-
cultural College has already been described. In
addition to this means of acquiring a practical as
well as a scientific knowledge of the use of the
BED OF STRUCTURAL FIBRES (FOREFRONT), PALMS, AND MANAGER'S
HOUSE, KAMERVNGA STATE NURSERY, CAIRNS, N.Q.
Photo, by Mobsby.
soil, there are several experimental farms in
Queensland, such as Hermitage, near Warwick ;
Westbrook, near Toowoomba ; Roma, Begginden,
Rockhampton ; Gindie, near Emerald ; and last,
but not least, the very important tropical nursery
and experimental farm at Kamerunga, near
Cairns. The larger portion of Queensland lies
within the tropic zone. The soil is so suited for
the production of all the fruits, trees, plants and
shrubs which earn wealth for our neighbors in the
Dutch and British possessions in the tropic seas
to the north of Queensland, that in tropical cul-
ture lies another fruitful source of wealth, and of
avenues for the investment of capital and the
employment of labor.
Many of these fruits, plants, etc., are indige-
nous to Queensland; and with them there is no
trouble in reaping the harvest which Nature has
abundantly provided without the expenditure of
human sweat. But there are a hundred varieties
of wealth-producing flora which, it was thought,
could be introduced and acclimatised in our rich
northern areas. I have already referred to the very
interesting work published under authority of the
Government of Queensland, written by the late
Mr. Lewis Bernays, entitled “Cultural Indus-
tries for Queensland.” In this book some 78
varieties of trees, plants, and fruits of high
commercial value were mentioned as suitable
for introduction and cultivation in Queensland.
This list included such articles of universal con-
sumption as tea, coffee, cocoa, nutmegs, quinine,
etc., but did not include either rubber, tobacco or
cotton, all of which, it is believed, are destined in
the future to furnish a substantial quota to the
aggregate wealth of Queensland.
The suitableness of Queensland’s soil and climate
for these products having been ascertained, the
State Government, in pursuance of its policy of
communal organisation of the wealth-producing
activities of the country, established a State
nursery for experimenting with and distributing i
economic plants. The situation of the nur-
sery is at Kamerunga, near Cairns. From
this centre focus plants of high commercial value
are being distributed free to farmers and land-
holders throughout the State, in order that in
time the soil may be put to its most productive
use. Font has already been remarked in these
articles that the Queensland farmer is not bound
down by prejudice, custom, or caste to do as his
predecessors have done, or to continue this year to
grow the crop which he grew last year. There is
no caste system in a free Democracy, and the
Queensland “man on the land ” is swift to adapt
himself to new conditions. It was by reason of
this progressiveness, this looking' for new
ideas and seizing them quickly, that the Queens-
lander built up with remarkable rapidity his
dairying industry— to take one example ; and
where this receptivity of new ideas was accom-
panied by a capacity for patient experiment, the
explanation is found of the wonderful superiority
<>f Queensland sheep, cattle, and horses over those
•i. say, such nations as the Argentine Republic,
which, with a similar typo of country, is a com-
petitor of Queensland in the same markets with
the same products.
The Kamerunga State Tropical Nursery would
have justified its existence had it only been re-
sponsible for the experiments in rubber planting.
As everyone knows, the demand for rubber is world-
wide. The use of rubber in So many ways in
modern manufacture has caused a rush to plant
the trees in all the favorable zones of the world.
Brazil and Africa have long fed the supply, while
the Straits Settlements, and even the Pacific-
Islands, are making a beginning. In the Straits
Settlements the rubber industry pulled the coffee-
planters out of a serious situation created by the
declining price of coffee. The insatiable maw of
Mark-lane (or of Coventry and Pittsburg) still
opens wide for rubber for the triumphal march of
the motor vehicle, which engineers believe and
predict will, in the not distant future, oust all
fixed lines which encroach on the street surfaces.
The work of the Kamerunga Nursery does not
cease with the experiments on its own land. The
staff answers questions addressed to it by
hundreds of persons who look to it for advice and
information. Thus the knowledge gained in the
operations of the establishment is spread abroad
among the people on the soil, and they are kept
abreast of the work which is being done. Besides
furnishing information, the nursery supplies
plants and seeds. In the year 1906-7 the following
distributions were made (I quote from the official
report of that year):—
Plants, 1585 ; seeds, lcwt. lqr. 151 b. lOJoz. ; cuttings,
686 ; bulbs or rhizomes, 361 b. 12oz. : grass roots, 346 ;
suckers, 189 ; fibre plants, 4560 ; sundries, 1 bag of divi-
ded ; and, besides this, three large exhibits of tropical
products were prepared and despatched. The first was
in August, for the Agent-General’s office, London, and
consisted of 25 items, in 3 cases ; the second was for the
A.N.A. Exhibition in Melbourne —50 items, including 6
large growing plants of various tropical products, des-
patched in November, 1906 ; and the third, for the annual
show of the National A. and I. Association, Brisbane.
The preparation of exhibits for these distant shows, etc.,
as well as the fairly large list of local shows at which this
nursery has to exhibit, involves a great deal of work,
especially as most of the items require preparation by
hand, as, for instance, fibres, which have to be beaten
out ; root crops (arrowroot, cassava, etc.) grated, cleaned
and dried ; seed collected, shelled, husked, or threshed by
hand, cleaned, and bagged or bottled ; rubber samples
especially, collected, coagulated and matured.
It will be seen from this that the work at Kame-
runga is done in no perfunctory manner. Then
exhibits from the nursery are sent to the various
agricultural shows which are periodically held in
Queensland during the year. Trophies from the
AERIAL ROOTS OF A WILD RUBBER-TREE
(FICUS ELASTIC A).
The height may he gauged by that of the European at the foot. The
trunk shoots up from the top of the picture, and grows for 80 or
100ft. before throwing out a branch.
nursery were exhibited at five shows—at Ather-
ton, in July ; Cairns, in August; Port Douglas,
in September; Ingham, in September ; and
Mareeba, in June. “These,” says the report,
TAPPING A PARA RUBBER-TREE.
This is known as the herring-hone method , and is
the most popular form of tapping. Planters are
still at variance as to the lest method, as well as the
most convenient implement for the purpose.
“were much appreciated, and gave universal
satisfaction.”
It is interesting to go through the report for the
years 1906-7 and 1907-8, to note the patient experi-
ment in acclimatisation; to mark the failures
and successes; and to realise the amount of in-
dustry and sedulous application necessary to pro-
duce the results which are recorded. Sere is a
report of the experiments on some of the sectional
fields :
Field 3a, Section I.—Opened last season, contains
cotton plot. Work : Trenched and hand-dug, kept clean
with hoe. Planted: Three plots (nianurial experiment)
sweet potatoes, five varieties; three plots, three
WEST AFRICAN OIL PALMS AND MENS QUARTERS, KAMERUNGA
STATE NURSERY, CAIRNS, N.Q.
Photo, by Mobsby.
varieties, cassava ; four rows, four varieties, yams ; three
rows Bermuda arrowroot; one row each Jamaica ginger,
turmeric, Queensland arrowroot, and ramie; beds of citrus
seedlings.
In Field 1, Section 1., which contains croton and palm
walk, permanent trees round headlands, there were
planted : 10 rows of Green Mauritius bean, 6 rows Narico
bean, 6 rows Tonga bean, 10 rows Mottled Mauritius
bean, 6 rows Small Madagascar bean, 23 rows Black
Mauritius bean kept for
seed.
In Field 2, Section 11.,
are the Pard, and Central
American rubber plots, and
mostly permanently planted
with bearing trees. There
were planted : Beds of seed-
ling mangoes, jackfruit,
longans, bunya pines, cherry
guava, Castilloa elastica,
Ficus elastica, teak, mahog-
any, Para rubber cuttings.
Field 1, Section 111., is
planted with permanent trees
round the borders, ploughed
and cross - ploughed, har-
rowed, and sown with 12
rows Italian Upland rice, 8
rows of White Java rice, and
balance Japan rice—mostly
failed to germinate.
In Field 2, Section 111.,
which contains West African
and African rubber plots,
sugar-cane plot, and certain
permanent trees, there were
planted: 20 beds sisal hemp
bulbils, 6 rows pineapples, 4
\ arieties (manurial experi- ;
ment); several rows cowpeas,
sorghums, teosinte, and to- i
baeeo.
To show the intepding
immigrant the kind of j
information which is
spread broadcast through- ;
out Queensland, a few -
items of the annual re- '
port of the results of cer-
tain experiments may l?e
printed here. “Special ’
seed set during the season
includes,” says the in- |
structor —
Puntumia elastica , African
rubber-tree, 26-7-’O6;
germinated freely ;
about 80 plants avail-
able.
Hevea braziliensis, pard
rubber ; at various
times; about 50 ger-
minated.
Layenaria villosa , butter
gourd, 30-7-’O6; did
well; seed available. ;
Hibiscus esculcntus, okra ; ;
a vegetable; did fairly
well.
Laurus camphora, camphor laurel; only few
germinated.
Tectona grandis, teak; timber; only few ger-
• minuted ; plants available.
Strychnos nux vomica, nux vomica plant; failed.
Datura stramomium, datura ; failed.
Aralia ginseng, ginseng, 15-11-’OG; no signs of
germination.
Backhousia citriodora, 21-11-’O6; failed.
Diplothemium martimum, wine palm, 2-l-’O7 ; not
germinated yet.
Trachylobium, sp. copal, 5-l-’O7 ; few plants.
Ananas sativa, pineapple (seed), 11-1-’O7; ger-
minated ; plants promising well.
Anacardium occidentale, yellow cashew nut,
15-l-'O7; few plants.
Anacardium occidentale, red cashew nut, 15-l-’O7;
few plants.
Achras sapota, 15-l-’O7 ; not yet germinated.
Mangiferd indica, special white mango, 21-l-’o7<;
two plants.
Tapeinochcilos pwngens, 21-l-’O7; failed.
Such valuable products as fibres are specially
experimented with, and a large distribution takes
place annually, as fast as the plants are obtain-
able. In fibres, Mauritius, Bombay, Murva and
Manila hemp grow freely, and the plants are dis-
tributed. Extensive preparations are being made
for the fullest experiments being conducted in
regard to the cultivation of 1 tobacco. Seven acres
of land on the banks of the Barron River were
cleared and broken up, and 3724 plants were set
out, although rather late in the season. As to
tobacco, it is bound to be one of our great indus-
tries some day. The tobacco product of 13 States
of the American Commonwealth in 1906 was
valued at £17,058,161, and no soil is more suitable
for the culture of the plant than that of tropical
Queensland. The Commonwealth production of
tobacco is so insignificant that it is not mentioned
in some of the most comprehensive year-books. It
is considered that our climate and soil is especially
suitable for the production of a leaf which can be
employed in cigar manufacture. In 1908 Queens-
land imported tobacco, cigars, etc., to the value of
£181,550. The Commonwealth, which seems to
have all the means of producing the tobacco
necessary for its own use, nevertheless imported ,
tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and snuff in 1906 to
the value of £545,782. It certainly says something
for Queensland that she had the largest acreage
(666 acres) under tobacco crops, in 1906-7, of the
States of the Commonwealth.
Then valuable work is being done at Kame-
runga in regard to experimenting in cotton. The
future of cotton culture, according to the experts,
is bound to be associated with the future of some
parts of North Queensland and its neighbor, the
Northern Territory. Vast spaces which are now
lying waste, except for the jungles and natural
grasses, will be utilised in the future for cotton
culture. Though I have dealt with cotton in
a previous article, a fact which might be empha-
sised here is the suitableness of the soil of Queens-
land for cotton culture, and the fact that, among
the practically illimitable resources of Queens-
land, cotton will yet be one of the richest of its
wealth-producing factors. Cotton goods are in
almost universal use throughout the world. East
and West, North and South ; and if the supply of
the world from other sources dried up, Queensland
and Northern Australia could remedy the
deficiency.
In the Kamerunga nursery, too, cocoa trees are
doing well, arid the report informs the farmer that
“plenty of plants of this valuable product are
available for distribution.” Upon the distribution
of the plants and seeds, the experiments are trans-
ferred from the experts to the practical settlers
themselves, and these, by keeping in touch with
the fountain head of the tropical culture depart-
ment, are able in turn to furnish their experience
of the prospects of the various plants. In those
avenues, also, the commercial test comes into use.
As the State nursery is not carried on upon
strictly commercial principles, but for the benefit
of the whole State, the commercial exploitation of
the various products of tropical culture must
necessarily be in the hands of the farmers who
grow them, and the merchants who handle them
in due course. A proper co-operation between
these will smooth all the roads between the pro-
ducer and consumer, and be to the general advan-
tage of the whole State. Take a few examples
! from the last report:—
i All the fibre-producing plants, says the 1907 report, are
! doing well, and plants or seed are available. Coopa,
: coffee, tea, kola nut, copal, divi-divi, etc., all did well,
, and seed and plants are available. Some Spanish
1 (Zimmer) and Cuban tobaccos were grown on the nursery
for seed purposes, all of which produced good crops. No
; rice was grown this year. Among the spices the
i cardamoms have done very well, producing a good' crop,
! and plenty of seed will be available.
The farmer who applies for and obtains his seed
i becomes a missionary of new ways of adding
|to the aggregate wealth of the State. Thus
diversity of avenues of investment for capital and
of employment of labor will* be secured, and
that is the very best thing that can happen to a
young country, for then the full capacity of its
children is developed, and a youth who fails at
one thing by an improper or unsuitable choice is
not condemned to stew in his own failure all his
life, but can look around for something in which
his special abilities will have a better chance.
After all, that is the negation of caste and is
the essential basis of Democracy. In Europe a
child has mostly to remain as his fathers were—
fin the position in life in which Providence was
pleased to place him.” In India a child’s occu-
pation is pre-ordained by inexorable caste. The
European is learning to break his bonds; the
Hindu has glimmerings of a far-off demo-
cratic dawn. In Australia the choice is free ; and
the wider the range of that choice the better for
the wealth-earning capacity of the nation. It has
become almost a proverb that Australians are
determined not to tolerate caste —and to dis-
courage the half-caste.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
ITons
Commander.
Sails.
NARRUNG .. ..| 5078 G. A. Millington .. May 28
•WARATAH.. .. 9335 J. E. Ilbery .. ..June 26
•COMMONWEALTH 70001 T. J. Hine .. .. July 24
• Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON
CAPETOWN and NATAL
£l6 to £57
£l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbournb Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS <fe CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assuranee, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of [|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 29 THREADNEEDLE STREET, E.C.
Manager : R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. ..£495,599 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 163,501 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stoek) . 72,500 0 0
£731,601 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. -==
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout th- World
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAXit, INTEREST.
EAST TEEM?
WE
W-
<>
$
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
aXT. S."W.
fQontdepieteo.*j|.Co.,|;td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREACrH ST., 74, SYDNEY
■ • AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collms-6t., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
David Braham & Co.,
LADIES’ TAILORS,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
The latest colorings in Cloths, most artistic
effects in Tweeds, and pure indigo soft-finish
Serges are now to hand and open for in-
spection.
Our cutter, Mr. F. J. Murphy, gives his
personal attention and advice to each
customer.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 King Street, Sydney,
TAILORS AND HABIT MAKERS.
POLICY hob tub COMMONWEALTH
Price (>d, from The Bulletin Office.
Shipping.
N ord
D eutscher
L/loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c,
Bank of Reui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Go.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ;
W. 0. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
TN€ »B€Rj>€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE
Steamer.
Tons. | Commander.
f'PERICLES.. 11,000 |A. Simpson
*MILTIADE3..
a MORAVIAN
Leave Sydney.
Noon, June 19
6 800 I A. Douglas, Noon, July 17
’ I R.N.R. I
4,573 A. Robb .. Noon, Aug. 13
« Twin Screw. a One class only.
PARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
pe or .uuruiiu .. From £3i 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 1/s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
t New Steamer.
London
Cape or Durban
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
June 9.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
July 7.
MEDIC, AFRIC, and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation-
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Compa-nt/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
nolipay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
m
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Sydney.
The Commissioners are prepared to pay interest on deposits up to £5OO.
ADVANCE, DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department offers most advantageous terms to settlers or intending settlers on the land, a few of
the important features being :
. (a) Advances made from £5O to £2OOO. ( d ) Loan instalments (interest and principal)
( b ) Low AND FIXED rate of interest during: are payable half-yearly.
currency of loan. (e) Borrower has the right to repay the loan
(c) Money may be lent for any term up to on any instalment date; interest to tnat
31 years. date only being charged.
The tenures imon which the Advance Department may lend are:—(l) Freeholds, (2) Certificated Con-
ditional Purchr. es (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (3) Uncertificated Conditional
Purchases (with or without associated Conditional Leases), (4) Homestead Selections (before or after
issue of the Hon.cstead Grant), (5) Settlement Leases, (6) Settlement Purchases, (7) Conditional
Purchase Leases.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
THIS Department makes advances up to £25,000 upon city and suburban freeholds and on country lands well
situated and of good quality at moderate rates of interest.
Detailed information on application to Branch Managers, or to the Secretary, at Moore Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
OH
EORGE HOTEL,
St. r iilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
SOLID GOLD WATCH PUZZLE.
CHEAT OFFER BY A RESPONSIBLE FIRM.
IT COSTS YOU NOTHINC TO TRY.
To any person who can supply the correct names
of these two well-known English Towns, and
fulfils conditions below, we offer our £S Lady’s Solid
Gold Watch, fully jewelled, English Government
stamped, as a FREE Gift. (Silver Watches
are presented to Gents.).
Send your attempt on a sheet of paper, together
with stamped addressed envelope for reply, to
FELLOWS & CO., Wholesale Watch Merchants,
Birmingham, England. The winner is required
to purchase a Chain from us to wear with Watch.
The name of this paper must be mentioned.
Prize-winners of last competition were : Miss L. C.
McLamarara, Bartley Crescent, Wayville, S. Aus-
tralia; Mr. D. Cray. Bookabie, W. Coast, Australia.
Banking.
Bank of Heiif South (Dales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1.600,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. ... 2,500,000 0 0
£6,600,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. 0. K. Maclykllar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
A ditors • ) William HARRINGTON Palmer, Esq.
auo tors . ( Siiepiieard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.
London Office—64- Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India;
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager,
The |ank of flustralasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,610,000
Reserve Liability' of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,810,000
London Office: 4 Tlireadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and Irom
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
■S.S. Yongala, June 5.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Gran t ala, May ‘29.
S.S. Innaniincka, June 5.
Rest and Cheapest Route to Gold Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
UNION LINE
Winter Excursions to
The Coral Isles of the Pacific
Round Trip from Sydney and back in 30 days.
NEXT sailing, the new twin-screw steamer, “ATUA,”
June 22, for FIJI, SAMOA, TONGA and AUCK.
LAND, transhipping at latter port for Sydney,
thence every 28 days ;
or the new twin-screw steamer, “TOFUA,” leaving
Auckland on June 22 for TONGA, SAMOA and
FIJI to Sydney, every 28 days ; or
Round Tours to Cook and Society Islands.
Tourists may leave Auckland by “ HAUROTO,” June 8,
thence every four weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from the latter port to Wellington per
'• i'.l AN APOURI,” allowing a stay of 30 days in Tahiti,
arriving at Wellington, July 28 ;
or per MANAPOURI,” leaving Wellington, July 7,
thence every five weeks for RARATONGA and TAHITI,
returning from TAHITI to Auckland per “ HAUROTO,”
allowing a stay at TAHITI of 28 days, arriving at
Auckland August 26.
For further information to the various offices 1
and descriptive booklet in Australasia of .
apply— the
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND,
LIMITED, 259 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL h.:AIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.-=H.=S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,400 Tons. T. Prjske, Commander.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - 10th June
„ SYDNEY - - 16th June
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 19th June
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - 24tli June
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets Lsued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
Liverpool' 1 ( £4910s - £ ' l3l3s - £islss - £1717s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. Next sailing,
T.S.S. “DORSET.” For further information, illustrated
books,' pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobirt;
McILWRAITH, McKACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER; SMITH'& Go., Ltd., Adelaide.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 SCent St., Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
I Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
fid. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.


THE GREAT WINTER TOUR
to NORTH QUEENSLAND
rtti
mm
:
■
r
:
i*
as.?-'.
:
.V
- • " ■■
f A, £
$, mmm C
■:>
THE MAGNIFICENT STEAMERS
OF
THE ADELAIDE S CO., LTD.
AUSTRALASIAN UNITED STEAM NAVIGATION C°u«.
HOWARD SMITH CO., LTD
A Splendid HEALTH 8 PLEASURE TRIP
BEAUTIFUL SCENERY.
CAIRNS is an ideal resort for the
invalid, for the tourist, and pleasure-
seeker* Australia has not any winter
trip to compare with it* The round
trip from Melbourne to Cairns and
back can be done in 27 days, Sydney
to Cairns and back in 20 days, Bris-
bane to Cairns and back in 14 da 7s*
The Red Bluff, Cairns Railway, North Queensland.
Barron Falls (North Queensland),
in Flood. 700 Feet.
IT is a generally admitted fact that what
is known as the North Queensland Win-
ter Tour takes a high place in the regard
of the traveller. And justly so. Pos-
sibly in no tour in or around any portion of
the Australian continent are there such
opportunities for recuperation and rest.
They that have already accomplished the
tour have returned and have spoken—and
they have spoken in no mean voice. What
they have seen they have described fittingly
and without embellishment. They have left
their records of balmy days passed in
luxuriant ease upon the deck of a steamer ;
they have excited their less fortunate
brethren by descriptions that seem fabulous
distortions. Yet their statements bear the
impress of truth.
Now, allied to Queensland’s natural
beauties, and its wealth of mineral riches,
is its increasing tourist traffic, more especi-
ally that from the southern capitals along
the coast to Cairns or Cooktown. It may be
said that this traffic, already of considerable
advantage to the state more immediately
concerned, owes much of its growing influ-
ence to the admirable facilities provided in
travelling by the within-mentioned Steam-
ship Companies, whose vessels, all fitted with
the comforts and conveniences that people
have learned to look for in the best hotels,
have inspired a totality of regard for their
safety and general excellence that is scarcely
exceeded in any other part of the world.
In the fh'st place, the tour opens up to the
inquiring visitor a country that is climati-
cally unfamiliar to the Southerner. While
in Victoria, for instance, one experi-
ences the variations in temperate condi-
tions to which one is accustomed, in Northern
Queensland one is transported to the novel
charm and delight of the tropics, with their
luxuriant vegetable arborescent growths.
Here, where flowers and trees owe much of
their vitality to unremitting care and atten-
tion, there they flourish in untrained and
unassisted grandeur. Piero, where at this
season of the year the sky may be overcast
and the days be grey and sunless, there they
are revelling in tropical sunshine from blue
skies flecked with scarcely a cloud for days
on end. Here, where our nights may be
chilly and unappealing, there they are
pleasantly cool and have all the seductive-
ness of a dream. The contrasts are legion
and interesting ; but the significance of that
remark will only he appreciated by the
northward-bound tourist. r Phat fortunate in-
dividual steps on board one of the steamers at,
say, Melbourne, and about 10 or 12 days
afterwards is breathing the bracing atmo-
sphere of Cairns, while enjoying to the full
the inestimable scenic resorts of the sur-
rounding country. Yet, the passage up is
itself by no means the least of the attrac-
tions ; for to laze upon a steamer for 10 or
12 days, and just eat and sleep and talk—
indeed, submit to a glorious indolence amid
the ever-changing effects of sea and sky—
has its appeal for all. In truth, the trip is
not too long to be monotonous, especially as
the frequent ports of call along the route
provide opportunities for little jaunts ashore
to view some of the chief objects of interest
in the neighborhood. Neither is the trip
too short to prevent the formation of those
little shipboard friendships ; the exchange
of vie ws and opinions ; and the arrangement
of pleasant little parties for all manner of
excursions. In fact, this side of the question
is of no inappreciable importance. One con-
sorts with one’s fellow-men without the re-
straints to intercourse that are rigorously
regarded in the cities; one acquires the
knowledge that Australia is not one’s native
State, but a great island continent, waiting
to be explored and to be understood. That
inexpressible parochialism that comes from
long residence in a spot; that instinctive
narrowness that is bred by an unchang-
ing environment; each ceases to be—r
each is scarified out of the being, so to speak,
by the influence of travel. The parochialist
becomes a patriot, almost a cosmopolitan ;
the Victorian, the Queenslander, the Wes-
tralian, each representative of his State, with
his State’s characteristics full upon him, loses
his title and becomes an Australian. On
such a trip as this, one mingles with the
other ; one sees in the other much to admire,
much to interest, much to resp >ct—the bar-
riers of foolish misconceptions and mis-
beliefs are down. The fact that these ex-
tensive trips further the great ideals of
national amity and unity is not the smallest
recommendation of the North Queensland
Winter Tour.
It is after the steamer leaves Brisbane,
and heads northwards, that the traveller
enters the ocean within the Great Barrier
Reef, and, amid placid seas and bright tropi-
cal sunshine, passes for a few days an envi-
able existence that is all too short. Ever
and anon a bold, rugged headland grows
from an indefinite blur; assumes shape and
color ; then glides past, to be succeeded by
long stretches of glittering white beaches,
backed by verdure-clad slopes. Again,
numberless islands complete a succession of
marine pictures, scarcely excelled in pictu-
resqueness in any part of Australasia, if in
the world. And, as the steamer ploughs its
way ever northward, the traveller maybe
reflects that it is well to be alive
and possess faculties sound enough to
appreciate such delights. Eventually,
of course, he disembarks, regretfully retro-
spective on the charm of the last few days,
perhaps even ready to assert that the steamer
has been over hasty in its passage. But
this .feeling soon disappears as he becomes
acquainted with the beauties tropical
Queensland has to offer. Here is a land
that is, in some ways, ineffably strange.
Here he sees, gtowing in tropical profusion,
the fruits that he is accustomed to purchase
in the shops of southern cities; here is
the home of the banana and the pineapple ;
here are thousands and thousands of
acres of sugarcane under cultivation by
stalwart white Australians. Here is tropical
Queensland as it is. Watered by broad
and plentiful water-courses; indubitably
wealthy in timber and mineral resources ;
unsurpassed in climate at this season of the
year ; magnificent in its abundance of moun-
tain and river scenery, it supplies to the
jaded visitor a northern Paradise and a
refuge for health, rest, and recreation.
Tropical Queensland- —indeed much of
Queensland that is not strictly tropical—
must be seen to be realised as a potent
factor in the growth of the national life.
\f>
Cairns is picturesquely situated, has a
healthy climate, and the temperature in
winter seldom falls below 50°. Good accom-
modation can be obtained at a reasonable
tariff, and the fishing is excellent. A trip to
the Barron Falls, and gorgeous scenery
about that part of North Queensland,
should not be missed.
For Full Particulars and Descriptive
Pamphlet apply —
Adelaide Steamship Co., Ltd.
Australasian United Steam Navigation Cw.
'“**■ » .
Howard Smith Co., Ltd.
Agents at ALL PORTS of AUSTRALIA.
Stony Creek Falls, Cairns Railway,
IS'orth Queensland.


It is worth posting on the bedpost that it
was “Wingen” Abbott, the boss reactionary of
the Pastoralists’ Union, who framed the N.S. W.
“Liberal” and Deform party’s plank relating to
the attitude of the State towards industrial dis-
putes. The council had proposed something ; but
it was “ Wingen ” Abbott who suggested the
amendment which was accepted and carried.
Moderately good Liberals like Moore and Oakes
may do the dancing; but it is unspeakable old
Tories like the union-smasher of Wingen who set
the tune for the “ Liberal” party.
Missing Friends.
WANTED KNOWN the whereabouts of
HANNAH or ANNA CLARKE,
daughter of Peter Clarke, late of Enoggera, Bris-
bane. Last heard of 29 years ago. Apply,
Queensland Trustees, Limited, Brisbane.
T. C. BELL.
XTOUR MOTHER IS DEAD, AND YOU
ARE WANTED.
STEMBEL, CHARLES—
/'COMMUNICATE with me as soon as possible.
F. MACOBOY, Solicitor,
Bendigo, Victoria.
Auction Sale.
HOTEL—INVERELL.
A RMSTRONG and FARRAND will Auction
the RAILWAY HOTEL (two-storey
brick building), acre land, business, furniture,
stock, on Wednesday, ninth (9th) June, 3 p.m.
Daily train to and from Sydney, excepting Sunday.
Full particulars on application.
ARMSTRONG & FARRAND,
Auctioneers, Inverell.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW A
SOUTH WALES. V No. 6685.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION J
BETWEEN
FLORENCE EDITH DAVID Petitioner
and
CHARLES STANLEY DAVID Respondent
TO CHARLES STANLEY DAVID lately of Welltown
Station in the State of Queensland and formerly of
Reedy Creek Inverell in the State of New South Wales.
rpAKE NOTICE that the said FLORENCE EDITH
x DAVID has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion without just cause
«>r excuse during three years and upwards. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper Office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Thirtieth day of June now next ensuing-
arid in the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining- further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned free’of charge.
DATED this EIGHTH day of MAY A.I). 1909.
THOMAS ROSE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
Lyndhurst Chambers,
84 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
FOR THE REGISTRAR
JOHN GEO. LEARY (1.5.). Chief Clerk.
SMOKE
E.F.L.
BRIAR
PIPES.
Are best. London
made.
From 2/6 each.
All Shapes.
Write for Illus-
trated Catalogue.
E. F. LIND § CO., 398 George St., Sydney.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
INCREASES THE FOOD
VALUE ENORMOUSLY**
lancet. IT a
00
COCOA
?v
IP TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA ,
DELICIOUS A
DIGESTIBLE^
To Users of Acetylene
Gas
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
$
ROBERT C. SWAN (Sb CO. Ltd
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALLAN’S Dance Album,
No. 6.
A wonderful collection of Dance Music, contain-
ing all the latest successes, including all the popular
hits from the “Jack and Jill” Pantomime, “ Prince
of Pilsen,” etc. The greatest value we have ever
offered to the public for ONE SHILLINC.
CONTENTS:
1. Waltz, AS LONG AS THE WORLD ROLLS ON.
On the famous song which is undoubtedly the
greatest ballad success of to-day. Makes a
splendid Waltz, and will please everyone.
2. Two-Step, THE ALASKAN.
A popular Two-Step. Contains the celebrated
melody “Totem Pole.”
3. Waltz, STARLIGHT MAID.
On the well-known song success of “Jack and
Jill” Pantomime. The time is well marked for
dancing, and it makes a delightful Waltz.
4. Waltz, WHEN YOU STEAL A KISS OR TWO.
A’ quaint melody, being whistled and sung
everywhere. Makes a delightful Waltz. Will
he a great popular favorite.
5. Two-Step, PARTY WHO WROTE “HOME,
SWEET HOME,” NEVER WAS A MARRIED
MAN.
A spirited, well marked Two-Step; one of
' the best.
6. Waltz, JUST SOMEONE.
Written on the popular song. Undoubtedly
one of the finest Waltz Sets published. Ex-
tremely effective.
7. Two-Step, JUST BECAUSE HE COULDN’T
SING “LOVE ME, AND THE WORLD IS
MINE.”
8. Two-Step, TRUE HEART.
A splendid Two-Step, on the successful March
Song.
9. Barn Dance, CUDDLE UP A LITTLE CLOSER,
LOVEY MINE.
One of the quaintest melodies we know of.
The finest Barn Dance you could wish for.
10. Waltz, MESSAGE OF THE VIOLET.
On melodies from the operatic success, “ The
Prince of PILSEN.”
Price, //- / Posted, 1 2.
ALLAN and CO. PTY. LTD.,
276-278 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Pipes
JGBD
, ; '\'
m
&
SPECIAL
Silver
Mounted.
Nothing ever like them
Shown in Australia before.
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCO^ISTSy
If
urtabie
fo
r Procure
at Local
sTobocconist.
apply at'
Wholesale
Depot.
231 Clarence
Street,
Sidney.
*
RAMET'S
MEDICATOR
CURES: Catarrh, Deaf-
ness, Hay Fever, Asth-
ma, Neuralgia, Head-
ache, and Diseases of
Nose, Throat and Ear.
Price, 10s. post free,
Includes Medicator, In-
halent, and Ointment,
with full directions. If
required, extra Inlialent
2S. 6d., Ointment is.
Illustration shows the
Medicator used in two
ways—blowing into the
nostrils, and inhaling.
Briefly, Catarrh is inflammation of the lining membrane
of the nose and adjoining passages. If the inflammation is
not arrested it invades the ears, throat and lungs, destroys
the senses of taste and smell; impairs the sight and hear.ng ;
causes baldness and rots away the frontal bones of the skull.
Dyspepsia and Consumption can also be direct y traced as
starting from the catarrhal discharges. The Ramey Medi-
cator is designed to treat the affected parts by direct applica-
tion. By its use, medicated air is slowly forced through the
nostri's and head and into the lungs. Our inhalent is a disin-
fectant containing carbolic acid. Long-standing cases of
Catarrh, Deafness, Headache, Asthma, Neuralgia, Coughs,
Bronchitis, Colds, La Grippe, etc., yield readily to the heal-
ing properties of our treatment. It kills the germs and re-
stores normal conditions. It is a well-known fact that our
method of treating catarrh and kindred ailments is endorsed
by thousands who have used it. Why piy a specialist a large
sum of lm ney for doubtful results when you can cure yourself
by this simple home treatment? The Ramey Medicator is
highly nickel plated, and should last a lifetime. The medicine
is put,on a sponge in the enlarged part of the Medicator, be-
tween the mouthpiece and nose tubes. Full directions with
every instrument. Send ios. postal note to the Sole Agents
for Australasia: STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 CoMli Street,
Melbourne.
a nrr ■
PRODUCER
MOUSTACHE GROWING MADE EASY.
Not the ordinary, nondescript sort of moustache—but a really,
long:, handsome one—is easily grown by
CAPILLARINE,
THE GENUINE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
AND STRENCTHENER.
A little rubbed on each niyht is all that is required.
Send for a jar to-day.
Sent to any address in the world free
10 6 Post Free
Craig: & Ait ken, 654 George St*, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
a
v
THEN
VITAL
PART
It’s the gold pen that gives
the life, and is the real basis
of value in any fountain pen.
The thorough reliability of the
.HABIB,TODD & CO'S
is due to the absolute mechanical and scientific
perfection of its gold pen —the product of 50 years’
experience—in conjunction with its feed, which is
made on nature’s laws ; and component parts which fit
absolutely. The “SWAN” requires no adjustment, but starts
instantly, never ships or blots, and lasts a lifetime.
SOLD BY ALL
STATIONERS and
JEWELLERS.
O tr illustrated Booklet tells about
the “ SWAN ” —write for it to-day—
post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., Manufacturers,
London and Branches.
Australian representative : \
JAS. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building,
24 Bond Street, Sydney.
rrr
■I E
CAMERAS ALMOST
GIVEN AWAY!
This First-Class Camsra, complete with all
Accessories, Material, etc., necessary to
produce the llnished photograph,
For ONLY 2S. 3d., P ost freo -
NO PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE NEEDED.
Takas Actual Photos This Size.
B
m
S
m
¥*~
Anyone can take splendid photographs with the LITTLE GIANT CAMERA. It is
absolutely the cheapest reliable apparatus on the market. Other cameras, not hall as good,
are being sold for more than double the money, and added to this the purchaser has to
spend sometimes twice as much again on accessories before a finished picture can be shown.
In the case of thewonderful LITTLE GIANT everything is included in the price we,ask.
Only 2s. 3d,, postage paid anywhere—everything just as shown in our illustration. The
camera is a first-class instrument, fitted with a fine quality Meniscus Lens, and measuring only
2$ x 24 x 14 in., takes up very little room, and can he carried in the pocket with perfect safety.
Takes pictures quite equal to the more expensive cameras. We have seen some splendid
specimens of work done by the LITTLE GIANT. We wish we could show them to you.
You’d write straight away for an outfit. Every camera guaranteed, and any purchaser not
entirely satisfied with it, or, in fact, with any goods we advertise, can have his money back in
full. Full instructions for taking the Exposures and turning out the finished photo are given,
and the directions are made so clear that no one need hesitate to send right away and become
a full-fledged photographer in a few days. Bemember the low price. ONLY 2s. Sd. com-
plete with ALL ACCESSORIES, and we pay postage anywhere.
Extra supplies of Accessories can always be obtained from us, price for complete equipment
(including Plates, P.O. Paper. Hypo. Developer, etc.,) Only 6d. post free.
Complete Stocks of all Photographic Supplies and Accessories instock.
Mention this
paper.
H. J. SMITH & (80-, 14 Hunler S - s y“"°y
BILLIARDS LTD.
(Phone
1338 City).
630, 632 and 634 George Street, SYDNEY (near Liverpool Street).
25 Full->Size
AlcocK Tables.
Several Private Rooms, which can
in advance by a ring on the
be engaged
’phone.
BEAUTIFUL SILK PIECES for PATCHWORK
Extra Superfine Quality
, . . No Plain Material at all
LOYELY COLORS. BEAUTIFUL PATTERNS.
Sufficient for a Large Cushion Top, 30 x
24 Inches, only 3/- carriage paid; Two Par-
cels for 5/“, or enough for a Full-Size Ouiit
72 x 80 Inches, 17/6 carriage paid.
Money Back in Full if you ai-e not Delighted.
HPHESE Silks are remnants of the very best Scarf and T 1 e Mater i a 1 s,
such as it is absolutely impossible to buy in any shop. If you were willing to pay ten
times the price, you cpuld not obtain the same quality and variety of patterns
in any other way. The designs and colorings are beyond comparison with any-
thing of the kind you have ever seen. If you are not delighted when you receive the parcel,
you may return it and have your MONET BACK IN FULL. With each order we send full
printed directions for making up. full-size patterns of handsome mosaic designs and metal lic
shapes to simplify the cutting of the pieces. We have Special Parcels oi
Pieces that you may have for HALF PRICE, with a very effective full-size pattern to
follow and metallic cutting shapes, if you send Six Pence we will forward an assortment of
sample pieces for you to judge of the quality and patterns; they will make pretty Pin
Cushions, Brush and Comb Bags, Tidies, Doiley Centres. Send at once and seoure the best pieces
The Onion Manufacturing Company,
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
c T.i
m
Dee Are He Hay Dee Hen Hoe You Gee H Tea
£5O
Given away in sums of £ 1 each to first 50 persons sending correct answer
to above puzzle of one word only, before 31st July, 1909. With your
answer, enclose Fifteen Penny Stamps for a box of DREADNOUGHT PILLS T ifi
best Liver, Kidney, Blood and Bowel regulator ever known. We are giving these presents
to introduce our Wonderful Pills. Names and addresses of winners posted to all com-
petitors. If less than 50 correct answers, the will be equally divided. Write at once,
as advt. may not appear again. The Empire Pill Co.. Flinders St.. Melbourne.


The tale of an old Groper :
Passed the last harbor light, at Fremantle (W.A.),
John Bateman, ex-whaler, ship-chandler, and all-round
Proper of the oldest type. He arrived off Gage Roads
half a century ago in a whaling ship, and in partnership
with his brother Walter, started in the lightering line,
which, until the advent of steamers and the construction
of jetties, was an exceedingly lucrative game. Then they
went in for supplying ships’ stores and selling anything
cast up by the waves —from a beaker of rum to a sailor’s
sea-chest. The business flourished greatly, and, leaving
it to the management of his brother, John turned his
attention to whaling and trading to Java, the Straits
Settlements, China, and other places with sandal-
wood, jarrah, pearlshell, horses, or anything else that
made up loading. There was plenty of return cargo in
the way of tea, sugar, rice, Dutch square-face
and cotton goods, and the shore business soon developed
into an extensive concern. To-day it is one of the best
mercantile houses in Westralia. Old John loved the
ocean. Tlis ship, the Star, went on the rocks when within
a dozen miles of Fremantle, and was pounded to match-
wood whilst the crew was struggling in the breakers.
Half a dozen other wrecks have since happened in the
same place, which is ironically named Safety Bay. The
Corsair Rocks form a barrier, but they are merely the
teeth of the saw. The City of York and Carlisle Castle
went down on the same night—oneon lsland,
the other on Corsair Rocks—total loss in each case, and
42 lives gone. Old man Bateman attained 85 years
and left a large fortune. He married a second
time, when over 70 —a widow with a large, grown-up
family. He was cheery and communicative with old pals,
but had a deep-rooted objection to t’othersiders, press-
men and foreigners generally. The sight of a steamer
crowded from stem to stern with passengers bound for
Ooolgardie sent him into a fit, and when a reporter
attempted to interview him this true Groper shut him-
self up for a week. Apart from ghese foibles, John Bate-
man was kindly disposed to most men, and left a pretty
long list of good deeds behind him.
“DAD’S AND DAN.”
The New VVayback Book you are bound to read, Is.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
Sold by leading Chemists and Storekeepers.
Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or Store-
keeper has not got them, ask him to get
them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to W. G. HEAENE and Co.,
Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
iisS^Gojut
mUR
trim
OVER A
CENTURY'S
REPUTATION.
min
THE GREAT
ENGLISH CURE.
ft LA I R'S GOUT and
ftHEUMATIC PILLS elimi-
nate the poison from the
system, and make you a
new man or woman. They
are purely Vegetable, and
Bherefore PERFECTLY
HARMLESS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
at 1/1X an<l 2/9.
BLAIR S HAVE SYOOft
THE TEST OF TIME.
== Britisl)>flHstralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d*
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Adstralasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORM (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand gpgr- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. YY. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. Janies Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winehcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. 0. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, S 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing’
Skate Co., 501 Weils Street, Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
‘RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
eyes
#
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It : s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
#
I
*
It acts like a charm !n
DIARRfKEA.
The only known Specific fop MM
CHOLERA & ”
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Caneer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively user), by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the world , in bottles , Is. 1 %d. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each.
WA RNIN G -Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN'S CHLORODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the 1 ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co.,Melbourne. Sole Froprietors: Fkeeman’s Chlokodyne, Ltd., London, S.E., England.
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.-
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
positive cure for all forms of
in the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot' become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system—not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force—and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments fop men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
3?
T
=<
v'
%
\\v
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
the McLaughlin go.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
ADVICE
The McLAUGIiUN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED COOK.
Name
Address
♦
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
E6e LEADING
HOUSE ™
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
THE MAINE
fP/F/e
Shewmo PtHe Apa rr
“The Maine” S.S. Rifle
CANT
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain V back sight ... ... «
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards ...
Postage on one Rifle—ls 3d, N.S.W. 2s 2d, Inter-State»
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tink’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book of De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s (id posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handyiiook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and is 6d.
Gop and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No manor woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will he posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Datf., Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hf.ptamEron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street* Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write ior my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere ior the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s Od. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of P uilosopiiy 'ls post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings,-Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 16s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
|mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
Iposted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The Famous Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fe Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation,
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.-
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNS,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Oout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
(Drawn from photo)
“ The Champion ”
the only machiae on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five veara.
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK UP TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
1| “Champion” Phonographs
Given Sway FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “Champion”
Phonograph, we have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
, among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after you receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent with every machine we giveaway. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope, so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutely
free. Write at once to the
ANGLOAUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., Opp. C.P.0., Sydney, fI.S.W.
U/ye BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, sd.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 s G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMATJLT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sn.d bv all Chemists.


7 fcs
>v
n=
I
&
naa
3* <••.• .••
fWjS*
mm
(*&ih
K k »so&
m
3. ;• •.:•:• • f;
&
i
California
Syrup of Figs,
the most perfect laxative of
the century, is the preferred
medicine among physicians
and in millions of families.
It acts mildly yet thoroughly
on the kidneys, liver, bowels
and stomach, and does not
weaken them. It is palatable
to take; and its beneficial
effects are permanent.
California Syrup of Figs,
‘ NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
3^
A
<3
<2
O
3C
Xf
o
Nt*s
To obtain its beneficial effects, buy
the genuine, which bears the
name and trade mark of the
manufacturers.
1 Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch:
7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sewen
Medals;,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birmingham, England,
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
eauty’s Favourite,
The article wbicb excels all others
in improving the beauty of tbe sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis has been tbe
acknowledged and honoured
position beld by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
sKin. No otber soap possesses
tbese qualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
Matchless for the Complexion,
The Mountain Mail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE stars were white and the night was
still
When the weary engine drew
The midnight mail to the foot of the hill—
We heard when her whistle blew.
And we took the giant of all the roads—
The mightiest engine out,
To carry along the living loads
Where the hills lay dark with doubt.
There was never a light in the little town,
And a soft, screened glow from the cars
When we backed the Lord of the Ranges down
In the light af the watching stars.
Soft, as the breath of a summer’s breeze,
The hooks and chains were drawn—
In the silent cars behind, at ease,
The sleepers slumbered on.
There was scarce a cry from her whistle’s chime—
Just a muffled sound in her stack—
And the grades drew near that we had to climb,
And the railway yard slipped back.
Out and away swept the mountain mail,
White steam flung to the stars,
And eight strong drivers bit.ng the rail
To the rumbling roll of the cars ;
For ninety miles through the mountain ways
Her road lay, dark as doom,
Save the narrow track that her headlights’ rays
Cut out from the midnight gloom.
The thrash of the steam and the rail-joints’
“ purr”
! s Were the only sounds we heard—
Rack in the cars, did a sleeper stir—
Or a dreamer speak a word ?
The driver watching, all eyes and nerves,
Threw open her throttle more,
And through the tunnels and round the curves
Her wheels began to roar,
The fireman, flinging his fire-door wide,
Tossed coal and coal and coal,
And the god of speed who dwells inside
Made the Lord of the Ranges roll.
On viaducts, with a six-foot tread,
We flew o’er the black ravine
With never a light to twinkle red
Or show us a kindly green.
Rocking and rolling, she took the curve,
Her flanges cut the steel—
If a sleeper woke at the reel and swerve
He drowsed ere his brain could feel.
The driver spoke to his fireman, thus,
“Look out by the Haunted Wood,
They’re showing a red light there for us
1 : the filling is not too good.”
But the stars were white and the night was still
When the Lord of the Ranges swept,
At the head of her carriages, down the hill
Where the mountain torrents leapt.
We came to the straight by the Haunted Wood,
And never a light was there ;
So the driver knew the embankment stood,
And he shut off all the air.
From a hundred wheels the brakes, released,
Gave speed down the gloomy glen—
If the dreams of a restless sleeper ceased
He slept the sounder then.
Over the hills sped the mountain mail
With flaring white-flung breath,
And the flange of a wheel on a curving rail
Between sweet Life and Death.
In the pink of the gentle-footed Dawn
The Lord of the Ranges paused,
There came the clatter of chains undrawn,
As of chariot-gear unhorsed.
A big-wheeled flier was coupled on
To whirl the train to the sea—
A whistle called, and she was gone,
And the winds of the plains blew free:
And the Lord of the Ranges backed away
To the semi-dark of the sheds.
She does no work in the light of day—
She hauls the folks in their beds
When the thrash of her steam and the rail-joints
purr
Are the only noises heard—
f Back in the cars, did a sleeper stir,
Or a dreamer speak a word ?
MAOKILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Shell Fighters.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ T’VE seen some pretty shell-fighting
between Darwin and Sud Est,” said Big
Nose, the Yankee. “Years ago, when
my nose was shorter, I bought into a shell com-
bine, run by five Greeks and De Bafio, a black-
headed, bull-cheeked Italian with the legs and
body of an elephant. We couldn’t fit him into
American diving gear, but he was handy at
pushing 40-ton schooners off mud flats and sand
bars.
“The Malays, Rotumah men and other lepers
were at our heels all the season, spying on us and
working in our drift, while the Three Moons, a
lugger owned by a Jap syndicate, was to wind-
ward whenever we hit a ten-pound bag of shell.
“In those days the waters between Java and
Thursday were streaked with blackguard schooners
and Liverpool rnainsheet men. The Japs were
, few, but they reckoned the Gulf was a good place
for ‘golden edge’ and ‘black lip,’ and they
quarrelled like cats on a 2ft. plank if you dipped
within a hundred fathoms of their lugger. The
tricks of the Gulf-shellers are old and wicked, my
son, and there’s no limit to man’s devilry when he
is after gold or pearl.
“The Greeks had bottomed on a patch of good
shell in a narrow strait where the sand dunes shot
up at low water, and the floor was clean as a well-
broomed carpet.
“The Three Moons got wind of our luck, and
were down on us like hawks. It often happens
that divers under water come to blows; but the
game requires more nerve than land fighting. A
false step or a twist, and a man is hauled up with
a dead-beer look in his^eyes.
“The Dagoes stood by the rail and watched
the Japs settle down on the shell, and they grew
bitter at the thought of being shepherded and
jumped on year in and out. So they crooned
little songs as the brown men worked, and the
music was full of insults and beast-words.
‘‘The Jap has a temper brittle as glass ; word-
rap him for an hour and you’ll seethe juices of
murder stewing in his eyes. They stopped work
and said something that made the Greeks bend
and spit back. Somebody threw an iron bolt that
struck Tamaso Shani, the Jap skipper, on the
shoulder. The bombardment began. Both lug-
gers were half-loaded with unopened shell, jagged
as band saws and true as rifle shots when skated
through the air.
“ The Japs stood by their heaps and began a
devilish fusillade that cleared the Dagoes off their
deck and drove them below, gashed and badly
hurt.
“ Work began again on the Three Moons, while
the Dagoes sulked and licked their cuts below.
The next morning Captain James Hayes walked
over the sea-line with a brand-new schooner, trim
as a gunboat and shining like a new dollar.
“ The Dagoes hailed him tearfully, related their
experience, and offered him half-a-ton of golden-
edge shell if he’d dog-hunt the Japs out of the
strait.
“Haves listened, and said he’d see into the
matter right away, and he slewed a point nearer
the Three Moons.
“‘Ahoy there. Monkey Nuts!’ says Bully,
cheerfully. ‘ Who advised' you to stroo shell over
a peace-abiding white man’s lugger ? ’
“‘Eh, what?’ A Jap with both hands full of
shrapnel looked over the rail. ‘You come closer,
you pigeon-face ole egg-beater ! ’
“ They say Bully didn’t hear the remark about
the egg-beater, but he showed seamanship in
bringing his schooner under the Jap’s counter and
making fast.
“ ‘Tell you what,’ said he, jumping aboard the
Three Moons, ‘you people deserve a joint com-
mission of sandbags.’
“The Japs gaped at him and his new brass-
buttoned reefer coat. He stooped, and picked up
some 5-inch shell from a heap. ‘ Chickens, by the
Holy ! ’ said he.
“The skipper saluted him briefly. ‘Veri ni
day, cap’n’, he said, running his eye over Bully’s
uniform.
‘ After we’ve sized up your international fish
obligations, the weather’s goi ng to be any thing
it pleases,’ said Hayes. ‘ Where’s vour permit to
scour Gulf territory for immature shell ?’
“Bully had a fine air ; you could have reared a
family of policemen with his voice. ‘Now,
Monkey Nuts, ’ says he to the skipper, ‘ call your
crew for’rd while I adjudicate on your unparalleled
villainies.’
“The Jap skipper didn’t enjoy being called
‘ Monkey Nuts,’ but his long eye fell on the throat
of a brass cannon shining from the schooner’s
stern, and he took the insult grinning.
We’re the Lord High Commissioners of
these parts,’ said Hayes, ‘and it seems that
you bulged your personality on these peace-
loving Dagoes.’
Hi yah,’ said the Japs.
“ ‘Well,’ said Bully, brightening up. ‘lf you
want to boss the seas between here and Shinto
Bay you’ll’have to put up your best man to fight
the Dagoes’best man.’
“‘How you mean fightee?’ said a nuggety
Jap, stepping out. ‘ Knife an’ rastle ? ’
“‘ No knife, Johnny,’ said Hayes. ‘ Just plain
rastle, and as much throttle-grip as you like.’
“ The Dagoes drew their lugger close in ; they
seemed to understand Bully’s argument. De
Bafio spread himself over the rail and signalled
Hayes. De Bafio hadn’t much forehead to speak
of, but you could have rebounded a bullock off his
throat and chest.
“ ‘ Dey trowa shell ata me,’ he said to Bully.
‘By Cristo, I lika de bletty fight now ! No shell
trow, on’y de bletty fight.’ As he leaned over the
rail you could hear him licking his lips.
“ ‘ Holy Peter ! Who blew you up?’ said Bully
staring at him. ‘ You’re a hefl of a man ! ’
“‘I fighta de lot, anyhow,’said the big Dago.
‘I no trowa de shell.’
“ ‘ Come this way, Signor Buffalo,’ said Hayes,
politely. ‘ There’s a Shinto-man here who swears
that your uncle Pietro was hanged.’
“De Bafio climbed over the lugger rail, and
stood by Hayes, staring like a lost bull at the Japs.
“Four brown shelters stripped their loincloths
and rolled like acrobats in front of Bully.
Nuggety, big-hipped little fellows, quick as
terriers, and laughing all the time at the sullen
Dago who had come aboard to fight. Then,
squatting on their haunches, they made biting
remarks about his overfed condition.
“ ‘ One at a time,’ said Bully. ‘ Signor Buffalo
will now oblige with his man-handling entertain-
ment.’
“‘I fighta de lot; Ino fighta one leedle mon-
key. Igo de lot. I trowa no bletty shell,
anyway.’
“‘That’s white man’s talk,’ said Bully. ‘Go
in and don’t let ’em waste your time, Buffalo.’
“ ‘T’sh ! ’ The Jap skipper flung a look at the
boys and cracked his fingers. It was the office to
begin. Thev dropped all-fours around the giant,
and spent 12 seconds measuring him, hip and
eye.
“‘Shimo Yatama ! ’ said the smallest fellow,
and they were on to him, neck, heel and waist,
like long-lost brothers.
“ The big Dago shook as though someone had
sooled four bananas at him.
“ ‘ Ah-r-r-r ! ’ said he. ‘ Ah-r-r-r ! ’
“The Greeks on the lugger yelled like wild
cats. ‘ You trya de cumberlock, Bafio. You
twista de monkey heads.
“The Jap who’d wrapped himself round the
giant’s ankles advised the others to force back his
chin and throttle him with a jitsu arm-lock. Bafio
rolled across the deck, his eyes bulging, his
muscles shaking from hip to throat. Staggering
to a heap of shell, he pitched forward and ground
their naked bodies on the upturned edges for 30
seconds by Hayes’s watch.
“‘Blood,’ shouted Bully smartly. ‘Corners,
gentlemen.’
“ The Japs limped back maimed and shell-
bruised, but at a glance from their skipper they
lay forward again like dogs on a leash.
“Bafio wiped foam and shell-grit from his
breast. His underlip drooped, his hands opened
and shut as though he’d just dropped a packet of
firebars.
“■Time!’ Hayes nodded to the Japs. The
nearest boy jumped alone at the Dago and
secured a jitsu twist on thumb and forearm.
Bafio dropped on his knees, brought the little
fellow over his shoulder, and threw him over-
board.
“ ‘ One,’ said Bully. ‘And he must stay out.’
“The three boys fastened like gate-locks to the
Dago; they whined and fretted, they pinned him
heel and throat. They wanted to strangle him
in sections, or wolf the life out of him. Bafio’s
jaw hung. ‘Ah-r-r-r !’ he said, and his feet clung
like roots to the deck. Then his hand broke
through the jitsu knot of fingers, and closed on a
(Continued on next page.)


A Great Sufferer’s Speedy Cure.
Constipation causes more illness, and is at
the root of more serious ailments, than
any other disorder. Ansemia, Indigestion,
Biliousness, Piles, Headaches, Sleeplessness,
Palpitation, Neuralgia, and many other dis-
tressing ailments owe their origin to a
clogged-up condition of the bowels and
digestive organs. Bile Beans banish Con-
stipation, not by drastic and weakening
purging, but by promoting the flow of the
natural digestive juices, and so restoring
and invigorating the natural functions.
That is the secret of the remarkable success
of Bile Beans in cases of even chronic
Constipation.
“ I suffered from Constipation so severely that it
brought on an attack of Piles,” says Mr. Geo. Weale,
of Mary Street, South Singleton, N.S.W. “I
suffered intense agony always, when either sitting,
lying down, or standing. I tried many so-called
remedies, but without avail. I was happily advised
to give Bile Beans a trial, which I did. The first
few doses afforded me great relief, broke down the
Constipation, and the Piles disappeared. My
wife and aged mother also use Bile Beans, the
former for Biliousness, and the latter when she feels at all out of sorts.”
Wt
Bile Beans, the Standard Family Medicine, are the PROVED cure for
Biliousness, Headache, Indigestion, Constipation, Piles, Liver Troubles,
Stomach Disorders, Dizziness, Flatulency, Nausea, Debility, Female Ail-
ments, Spasms, and all Liver, Stomach, and Digestive Ailments. Of all
Chemists and Stores at 1/1J and 2/9 per box (2/9 holds three times the 1/1J size).
ONE BEAN
ONE DOSE.
for
“THE 20th CENTURY DISEASE”
AND ITS STRANGE SYMPTOMS.
Discovery of Antidote for Nervous Asthenia.
THE POPE’S PHYSICIAN CONGRATULATES THE DISCOVERER.
Dr. A. Kuhner, the well-known German nerve specialist,
has just written a remarkable treatise on the subject of
the disease that bids fair to be known as “ the Twentieth
Century disease.”
The extraordinary feature of this rapidly-spreading
complaint is that it may exist in a man or woman appar-
ently strong- and healthy in every other respect. So
subtle, indeed, is this disease in its earlier stages that the
victim himself may be actually unconscious of it. Unfor-
tunately, the same cannot be said of its distressing later
stages of development.
Beginning with the apparently trivial symptomatic
condition of “sensitiveness” or “nervousness” (or
“ touchiness,” as the victim’s candid friends may describe
it), the disease may, if neglected or encouraged in its
development, progress through some of the following
serious stages
Sensitiveness
Restlessness | Irritability
Melancholia | Nervousness | Pessimism
Hysteria I Fearfulness I Inaptitude for I Dizziness
I I Steady Work |
Memory I Weak I Lack of Mental
Weakness | Will Power | Clarity
Brain Fag | Sense of Failing Powers
Mental Derangement
The ever-increasing number of suicides in which “ Death
from unknown causes ” is the common but enigmatical
. verdict, is proof of the diabolically stealthy progress of
this disease.
DR. KUHNER’S TREATISE.
Happily, preventive medical skill is much more up-to-
date than it was even so recently as when influenza first
raged as an epidemic. To-day medical science has
“ scotched,” if it has not entirely killed, influenza,
though only after it had carried off tens of thousands to
too early graves. And, to-day, medical skill has already
found its antidote for “Nervous Asthenia,” or “ Neuras-
thenia.” Dr. Kuhner generously pays tribute in his
treatise to its discovery by a professional confrere, a Dr.
Karl Hartmann, whose discovery bears the appropriate
name of “Antineurasthin.”
The most extraordinary testimony as to the value of
the discovery is already being published in the medical
and public press.
His Holiness the Pope’s Physician-in-Ordinary, Dr.
Giuseppe Lapponi, of Rome, writes :
“ I made trials in my private practice of ‘ Antineu-
rasthin,’ and shall prescribe it henceforward, as it is an
admirable agent for toning and strengthening the nervous
system. I take the liberty of congratulating you on
your discovery.”
Similar unqualified approval of Dr. Hartmann’s “ Anti-
neurasthin ” has been received from other very high
quarters, as may be seen in Dr. Kuhner’s medical treatise.
INTRODUCTION OF DISCOVERY INTO
THE COMMONWEALTH.
The success of “Antineurasthin” as the antidote to
nervous asthenia is based on Dr. Hartmann's discovery of
the importance of the brain and spinal marrow as the
central station of the nervous system. Dr. Hartmann
has shown that nervousness, nervous debility, neuras-
thenia, etc., do not represent conditions of debility of the
nerve fibres themselves, but of the brain and spinal mar-
row. In further explanation of the wonderful effect of
“ Antineurasthin,” it may be pointed out that it is not a
drug, but the brain and nerve-substance-forming essen-
tials of certain selected foods. Myeline (or Lecithine) is
the scientific name for this brain-and-nerve-building con-
stituent of our daily food.
Now, one of those lingering popular fallacies which yet
have a modicum of truth at their base is that fish food
strengthens the brain'. This it does, but only to about
the same extent (and less than some) as other articles of
diet.
Though we know that insufficient food, or a dietary
deficient in certain nutrients, allows the body and brain
to fall into a state of weakness, yet, on the other hand,
the body, brain, and nerves cannot be strengthened,
either as a whole or in part, beyond the limits set by the
food appropriative capacity of the system.
It is not continual overloading of the stomach with the
finest or richest foods that will build up additional brain
and nerve strength.
No less than nine-tenths of vital power is exhausted by
life's primary processes of assimilation and elimination,
but the demand on brain workers to-day creates a more or
less continual overdraft on the nine-tenths proportion of
life’s capital required for the current working expenses
of the body.
Dr. Hartmann’s “ Antineurastbin ” is a scientific
extract compound from those articles of food richest in
the lecithinic, or brain and nerve-building, constituents.
The value of Dr. Hartmann’s discovery lies in the
scientific fact that “ Antineurasthin ” is not a mere body
and brain food. It is a brain and nerve food solely, and
as such is directly assimilable by the brain and nervous
system. Hence it supplies the want long-sufferingly felt
by those whose work in life entails an undue cerebral-
nervous demand on the common fund of vital power.
Dr. Hartmann’s discovery is one that should personally
and very deeply interest brain-workers in all walks of
life. Every day is heard and seen all too serious evi-
dences of the undue strain of their intense work on the
vital power of the body. And now, on the highest
possible authority, it is heralded chat science has proved
equal to the stern necessity which demanded the dis-
covery of “Antineurasthin”—the brain and nerve food.
No longer need the brain-worker struggle on under the
cloud of fear of failing powers of brain and body. He or
she may, by including “Antineurastbin ” as an article
vitally necessary in the daily dietary, maintain that per-
fect balance of mental and physical power which alone
can uphold health and happiness.
For greater convenience, “Antineurasthin ” is com-
pressed into small tablets, and although its beneficial
effect on the brain and senses is so immediate, yet there
is none of the depressing reaction that follows the
administration of artificial drug “stimulants,” “Anti-vS
neurasthin ” being a special brain and nerve nutrient, |
and not a brain and nerve drug irritant.
This new nerve food comes with hearty commendation
from many scientists, and since its introduction it has
already alleviated much suffering—curing most severe
headaches, acute neuralgia, and sciatica, whilst even ;
cases of creeping paralysis and brain concussion h:jp-.
been treated with complete success.
Space does not now allow further information respeq® ? j
this marvellous 20th century brain and nerve isjf ' fm-
covery, but readers may like to know that tl/fjj, may
obtain a copy of Dr. Kuhner’s remarkable trealaste as
well as a sample of Dr. Hartmann’s “ Antineurasthin ” tyv
sending eight penny stamps to the wholesale distributor
for Australasia, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
The effect even of the trial supply offered to readers
will come as a revelation of the possibilities of modern
scientific building up of the brain and nerve-cells.
The above offer of a supply of “Antineurasthin” for
personal trial purposes is one that should be immediately
accepted by every brain-worker, as well as by every
reader conscious of some form of weakness of the nervous
system.
~ • sa *d he again, pressing down
a • tke bullet head rested on his right hip.
pringing back, he slammed himself against the
.he Jap s teeth had settled in his thigh,
lesslv 6 JaW slackened > and the head lolled life-
Ihe Jap skipper made a sign. ‘Take him
away; he is dead. 5
The crew of the lugger began to whine like
wo ves now It was the kind of croon that comes
rom a drunken woman crying in an alley. Every
ivmg thing on the lugger swayed and moved to
e une, everything except the dead boy lying
face down on the shell-heap.
f JSow for the squeal,’ said Hayes.
Ti.fi . n< l■ i *", e two boys worked his thumb under
Ratios tight-drawn arm until it pressed the eye-
t)a I. As a counter move the Dago tore the other
feUow from his throat-hold and pressed his
shoulders to the deck.
the black thumb. With a forward plunge De
Dafao fell with both knees on the under Jap’s
cnest. lhe Jap’s legs shot out stiffly; a lonesome
Kind of a pain filled in his eyes ; he turned his
t l , e %ht With his chest stove in.
4 -three, said Hayes.
, . The fight faded quick as it had begun. The
iig Dago rolled on his side with the Jap
clinging to him.
, u together in the hot sun, breathing
foot eac h other without stirring hand or
®it slow,’ said Hayes, stooping over them,
fight, eh, sonnies?’
, rn . Take me below,’ said the Jap in a sick voice,
lake me below.’
Help the big white man aboard my schooner,’
says Bully, quietly. ‘The fight’s a draw, gentle-
htSp nCK^ed *° the still figure on the shell-
The two luggers hung apart until moonlight.
iNot a sound came from either boat; you could
hear the fish leaping in the moving tide. Hayes’
schooner stood away about five cable lengths, her
nding-I,ght being dead ahead of the Greeks.
At midnight, a boat put off from the Three
Moons, lhe Jap skipper sat at the tiller until
they fetched the schooner’s side,
i. i Taptin Hayes aboard ? ’ says he.
Guess I’m here, O Tamaso Shani. What’s
your trouble now ? ’ Hayes leaned over the side,
watching him half suspiciously.
You have the Italian, Bafio, on board to
nurse, Captin Hayes.’ The Jap skipper stood up
in the dinghy and wiped his brow. ‘I am full of
sorrow that the accident did happen. lam glad
to hear that you will nurse Bafio.’
14 Oh, he’s Samson One Eye now,’ laughed
Bully. ‘ But he says he’ll take on your starboard
watch when he pulls round.’
“ Tamaso Shani made a sign. The rowers
beside him straightened their shoulders and their
backs were stiff as brass images.
“ ‘ I want you to give this to big Bafio, Captin
Hayes.’ He pushed a small box into Bully’s hand.
4 Tell him that we are sorry. Good-night !’
Haves opened the box as he passed the
binnacle light. A smooth pearl, matchless in
shape and orient, rolled into his palm. He gaped
as he turned it over and over.
44 4 Holy Kafoozelum ! What a beauty!’ he
said. Stooping under the oil-lamp in his cabin,
he touched a figure huddled in the dark bunk.
“‘Say, Buffalo, those derned Japs have sent
you a little present.’ ”
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
The Japanese Frau.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON fan and screen Miss Cherry Blossom
is represented arrayed in silken kimono,
with a broad brocaded obi, or sash, tied
at the back in a fantastic bow, her thick black
hair bunched in elaborate coiffure with tortoise-
shell hairpins, rouged and powdered, bowing and
smiling, waving a fan in the slow dance, her body
bent and swaying on her quaint little wooden
clogs.
The august Miss Cherry Blossom is a geisha, a
professional entertainer. She is let out for hire,
like a pianola. Her smiles are for sale. She it is
who enlivens the tea-houses, attends public enter-
tainments, and corresponds to a fashionable bar-
maid or ballet girl. She is the only woman in
Japan who is allowed to flirt, and with her flirta-
tion has become a serious business, like high-
kicking— not a pleasure. Love is not an amateur
sport in Japan. While the Japanese housewife
attends to the cares of domesticity, spanks the
kids, boils the rice, and tells the local fish hawker
what she thinks of his mussels, the geisha charms
the husband and his guests with singing, dancing,
and highly-spiced conversation. Very frail, very
notorious are these august little misses; and it is
doubtless by an earnest study of their ways—for
they are the women most seen by fore gners—that
the erroneous idea of the charm and blitheness of
Japanese femininity arose.
The geisha must not be confused with the
unfortunate women of the yoshiwara. Fatally
Asiatic is the degrading position assigned to these
women, a position that would at once destroy a
white civilisation and makes a forced marriage
between Europe and Asia, between the Yellow
Man and the White Woman—which is the ambi-
tion of certain Japanese philosophers—a hideous
menace to the future. In the land which proposes
to bring about the “harmony of the races,’’ even
in these enlightened days of battleships and penny
papers, pill hoardings and shoddy teapots, girls,
many merely children, are still sold into the lowest
form of slavery. So poverty-stricken are the
majority of the working peopie that, in order to
save a family from starvation, a girl, wife or
daughter, is frequently sacrificed. Girls are placed
outside the Government buildings in a special
section of the town (there is an imported yoshi-
wara in British Bombay), cooped up in cages or
baskets, with prices attached. Wherever the
Japanese shift, the yoshiwara is their first con-
sideration. In Korea, Manchuria, and parts of
Northern Australia the women of the yoshiwara
are among the first settlers. Europe may be as
wicked as Asia ; but the callousness that permits
girls to be sold like cattle, and which cannot per-
ceive anything wrong about it, could exist only in
Asia, where woman is regarded as an inferior
being.
By law and custom woman is a chattel. When
taken out at all the wife clatters behind her hus-
band. He enters the room first. She stands while
he sits. She dines when the great man has finished.
Humbly, when he goes out or returns home, she
taps her forehead on the mat.
A wife’s whole duty is to drudge and to obey.
To charm is the business of the geisha. After
marriage, according to Japanese custom, the good
woman shaves her eyebrows and blackens her
teeth. The husband is taking no risks, and frivolity
is not permitted.
Always is she in subjection, as mother, wife or
daughter. The wife is handed over as a piece of
property to her husband’s parents. She is the
slave of her husband, sometimes of her sons.
Feminine individuality is non-existent.
Even in young Japan, when the man wears a
sac suit and bowler hat, drinks whisky and backs
the ponies, the position is unchanged. Japanese
politeness consists in rubbing the knees of one’s
trousers, drawing in the breath with a hissing
sound, making curious noises at table, and
spitting promiscuously; but these evidences of
bon ton are reserved for males only. During long
train journeys, in the disgusting Japanese trains,
the husband, carefully wrapped up, lies full
length on the couch, while his wife sits bundled
up, sometimes the night through, in a cold,
cramped corner. She is a servant, and is brought
only to look after the luggage.
A woman has no choice in the selection of her
husband. The match is conducted on strictly
business lines. Every betrothal is arranged by a
nakodo, who strikes a bargain with the parents on
both sides. A girl meets no young man. She is
never taken out for a holiday, a moonlight walk,
a picnic, a theatre party. She has no sweetheart.
Yet, even in Japan, where the sexual instinct is
almost moribund, the anarchic passion of Love
cannot wholly be suppressed. Young couples
occasionally fall in love; but the end is death. It
is not uncommon to read of cases in which, know-
ing that their parents would never consent to the
union, the lovers have performed the joski or
suicide together.
Concubinage is still in force, not because the
family name must at all costs be preserved, for
the son of a concubine, even failing male issue by
the wife, is no longer recognised by law, but
because the Japanese regards his frau as a painted
toy that can easily be replaced, never as the only
mirror on the mantelpiece.
Divorce is wide and free, but all on the one
side. On any pretext, or without, the husband
can get rid of his piece of baggage, selling her, if
he so chooses, to a friend, or an enemy, or for a
period to the yoshiwara. He keeps the kiddies.
He is always in the right. . One marriage in
three used to end in divorce ; now one in five does,
which is quite a good average.
The Japanese frau has not the perennial smile
her picture postcards represent. She works in the
padd y fields amid mosquitoes, and in fever-haunted
swamps. She sometimes drags the plough in the
capacity of a cheaper kind of bullock. At Moji
or Nagasaki she assists in coaling steamers, often
with a baby strapped on her back. It is bad
policy to be a woman in Japan.
At best, Madam Chrysanthemum lives but in
a Doll’s House. And the Japanese Nora' has not
yet learned to slam the door.
LOUIS ESSON.
A Mixed Crew.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I say, it all depends upon policies, and policies must
be dealt with first. At the same time we may be pulling'
in the same boat when our boat is threatened from the
same quarter. There are various kinds of combinations,
from alliances based on principles to fusions of temporary
unions and understandings.— Somewhat cryptic utterance
by Alfred Deakin.
THO’ it sounds a trifle mystic,
Somewhat vague and cabalistic,
When you come to analyse the
inner side
Of political alliance
You will And it is a science
That embraces matters delicate and wide.
It involves the close cohesion of the faction or
cabal,
And the very fleeting friendship of the temporary
pal.
But pull for the shore, lads, pull for the shore.
Never mind wot boat yer in, struggle at yer oar.
Cook is on the gunwale, cursin’ us fer cows ;
Deakin's in the stern-sheets. Manger’s at the bows ;
The stormy vnnds are Mowin' an the enemy’s at
hand ;
We must settle it among us when we’re safely on the
land.
There’s the Temporary Fusion ;
Which is mainly an illusion
When you view it in the light of ev’ry day.
But politically ? —truly
’Tis a state in which, unduly,
You are never pledged or promised either way.
An ideal party union, where a man may trim his
sail;
Though vulgar folk allude to it as “sitting on a
rail.”
But pull for the shore, lads, pull for the shore.
We’ll settle in the harbor when the hurricane is o’er•
Quick is partly inside ; Irvine’s partly out;
Willie Kelly’s overside, flounderin’ about;
Forrest's at the mast'ead, lettin’ out a roar.
Never mind who owns the boat. Pull for the shore.
Then there’s the Coalition,
Which is entered on condition
You can swallow certain principles with ease.
’Tis corruption sugar-coated ;
And no matter how you’ve voted
In the past, you now may change it if you please.
Though the common crowd may scoff at thereversal
of your vote,
If you murmur “Coalition” you may safely turn
your coat.
But pull for the shore, lads, pull for the land.
Never mind who oivns the craft, lend a willin' hand.
Smith is on the bowsprit, yellin' “ Anti-Sosh ” !
Reid is on a tow-line, draggin in the wash ;
Jawbone Neild is founderin’, shoutin’ for a rope ;
But pull, lads, pull, for the shore’s our only hope.
Note you now the Understanding,
Quite devoid of party branding,
Where the parties undertake to understand
That, in certain set conditions,
They’ll—consider their positions,
And reach out for what they want with either
hand.
And for the country’s welfare and the nation’s
lasting good,
They agree to understand that they are all mis-
understood.
But pull for the shore, lads, pull for the shore.
Groom is on the fore ’atch with 'arf a dozen more ;
Knox is in the chart-room makin’ up his mind ;
Wilks is on a hen-coop, draggin ’ on behind.
Never mind the company ; only keep afloat.
You can’t be too particular who’s mannin’ of the
boat.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


“I attribute my present good health to the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is now three years since I first
used it. Previous to that I
was in very bad health. Had
no appetite, could not sleep,
always felt tired. It has built
me up and I feel like another
woman. I strongly advise
women in delicate health to
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as I
am sure it will do them good.”
* Mrs. E. Harrison,
Gawler, S. A.
When tired and debilitated, with
weak and irritable nerves, you need
AYER’S s arsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you are
not persuaded to take some other Sarsaparilla claimed to be
“just as good.” See that you get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No doubt you wish
to be cured without operatlo . T hen send ior particulars
01 our perfectfitting
Automatic Air cushion Appliance
the Best Ruptur" Applianct of the CENTuav
Two Days Trial given. Pamphlet Posted Fre->
CO., 261 Collins St.*Melbouroe f Vic
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,"
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, , Sydney.
Superior to ?
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
' same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
(m)
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SIHGLETON'i, EYE QINT^EHT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist, for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
rne 8 Breakspear,
SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
FIREPROOF
SAFES.
Manufacturers
Government Contractors.
STRONGROOM
DOORS.
IF von don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year's subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
destroys all Hies and
in dining room, sleeping
W
y
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not toil or injure
anything. Oue
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Groce is and
Hardware
Deal a r ■ ,
among wfiorn are:-
Sydney— Anthony Hordern &Sons; Elliott Bros. Ltd.*
O’Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung& Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St. ; Briscoo &Co. Ltd,
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., CJ.S.A,
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
m, 2/9 & 4/6
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
T-x
y
0
SIMPLE. EA SIL Y OPERA TED.
STRAIGHT THROUGH BLOW.
Self-Cleaning <& Self-Grinding Seat.
FACE PARTS PROTECTED.
NO STUFFING BOX.
Note.—The inlet orifice is tapered just above the seat. This
increases velocity of “ Blast,’’ and ensures perfect delivery
without punishment to the seat.
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
Sole
Agents,
Street
Sydney;
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
\ Dog Head Stout, King’s Liqueur Whisky,
•Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Si >ETRUE'UfE^S3tJR^MCfc.
>■>
mm
SSrtti-
g
Said Reuben bo Ra>chel
.Verily, ye* “
My wife I would Chee
5o praky nAtne the day."
Sand RacHcl to Reuben
With look adl demure
"If for wife thou would'sf n»c
Thy Life Chen insure"
sflkid Reuben Co Rakchel
"For ye&rs Ch&.C l'\?e done “
"Then ba>ke me" SAid RacHcl,
My heArb fchou bAstTwon.* g®
’EmbrAca me "quoth Reuben,
'We need fedkr no ills. ||p
Our POLICY ever f|§
To'ta.ke BEECHAM'S PILLS
This the true Life Insurance.
The premium but stndk.lt,
Butr Health, Wealth And Pleasure,
Assure tb ey Co ALL
//
/,//
rS
‘is
.
* 1
W
IIB&
<5?
5%
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
m
a
%
r-
.
Electric Light and Power
Supplied FREE
using the wind as motive power to drive a
“ Steel Wings ” Windmotor
(the motor with a bearing on EACH side of
the windwheel),, which in its turn drives a
Dynamo, charges the storage batteries,
and lights 20 lamps of 16 e.p. each.
The whole plant supplied complete for
£lOO.
No maintenance bills to pay.
No skilled attention required.
Follow the directions. The mill does the rest.
Dept. C,
STEEL WINGS WINDMILL CO., LTD.,
NEXT BAY ROAD STATION, NORTH SYDNEY,
will furnish all particulars about
Windmotors for Pumping,
Windmotors for Electric Installations.
Write NOW.
\
Nikoteen insecticide.
APHIS &. ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
Strength ; long-established, safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. i>. MORRISON,
JProprietor, 39 Hunter-street. tdntet.
Sample bottles and Jull particulars, by poet,
18.4 d. {stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
TERMS ARRANGED.
Do you want a Good Business in Melbourne,
Suburbs or Country from £2O to £5000?
We arrange Terms to suit you.
Country Storekeepers and Shopkeepers should send
us particulars when wanting to sell. Numerous
clients always on the look out for good businesses.
WRIGHT & SWIFT, 441 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
men
A NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders,
May be consulted personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN,"
will be sent FREE to all men suffering from any complaint,
living in the country or adjacent States, or anywhere outside Aus-
tralia. for the next'three months (on receipt of an application and
five stamps to cover the cost of postage), together with Dr. Martin’s Lectures on
“Men’s Special Ailments.” This medical work contains 692 Pages, over 600
Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored Plate. The most
interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is entirely different to those so-called
medical books sent out to the public by so-called medical institutes, etc., being a complete Encyclo-
pedia of information for people suffering with disease. No similar beok has ever been published
in Australia. Persons living in Sydney and suburbs can obtain the work from any of the Sydney
booksellers at its published price 7/6, but to all Men living in the country and adjacent States
suffering from any complaint, the book, as stated above, will be sent FREE for the next three months
on receipt of stamps to cover postage. •
Consultations may be made with Dr. Martin either personally or by letter. Note Address:—
DR. MARTIN, M.D., House,- 251 Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
FREE


Perdriau’s Good Oilskins.
If you believe in out-of-door life, or have to
spend much of your time ©ut in the weather, you
will know the need of a good Oilskin.
We carry's fine range of these in
the long Regulation shape, and price
them at 10/6, 12/0, 15/- ami 17/6.
Wr pay the carriage on the coats,
and guarantee a perfect fit if you
send your height and easy chest
measurement over clothes.
Our famous “Watershed” is the
very best, Oilsjfin made—thoroughly
protective whether you are riding,
driving, or walking. There are
grades at 25/- and 30/-, and if you
"ill ask we will post our special
booklet, ful|y explaining the Oilskin.
Write to-day—NOW !
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
PETROL ELECTRIC LIGHTING SET
FOR
»
V
SOLE AGENT,
T. K. STEALS,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
mBH
fcPA
4
Rider.
Write for
"B”
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
EFFI
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten. lOd.
A MAN FEELS AWFULLY PLEASED
win. n he finds out what
a good, useful, and
economical engine he
has purchased in the
BLACKSTONE
PORTABLE
OIL ENGINE.
OIL AS A DRIVING POWER IS NOW
FIRMLY ESTABLISHED.
—*.
ALSO
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machinery.
AGENTS IN N.S.W.—
Paxman Portable Steam Engines,
Kilgour Acetylene Generators.
SOLE AGENTS-
mm
Oil £ngine
Agents: [VS OFF A T- VIRTUE LIMITED,
7 Bent Street, Sydney , N.S. W.
Oil Sheep ©ip, General Shearing Supplies. And at currie street, ADELAIDE; Margaret street, toqwsqmba, q.
“ Hardwicke,” Yass, New South Wales,
December 18, 1906.
Dear Sirs, —The Black«tone Oil Engine ran
without a hitch, steadily and smoothly,
giving not the least trouble, and would have
done twice the work required. It used very
little oil. lam very much pleased with it.
Yours truly,
H. CAMPBELL LANGTREE.
Albury, N.S
Dear Sirs, —The “ Blackstone ” Oil Eng
grave us complete satisfaction. The con-
sumption of oil was extremely light, and we
never had a hitch throughout our shearing;
Yours faithfully,
COLLINS & M/
MERCHANT
—
Technical Staff.
Electrical and Mechanical.
BANK CHAMBERS: KING & GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
KINDLV ALLOW US TO QIVE YOU QUOTATIONS FOR ANY PLANT YOU MAY
3S,v ''
" RE.
MACHINERY.
Agents for Allis Chalmers Co.
Johnson & Phillips
PLANTS.
(N.8.W.)
. ■ fe: ■ few - v ife :i ; r - :
Ferranti Ltd.
LARGE GAS ENGINE UNITS, etc.
, .... =.. ...
Morganite Brushes, etc.
Maim
li BROADWAY.
NEW
an
m
Ma m AuiruUM 0»»to-
-41 QUEEN STBBX.T
MELBOURNE.
41 QUEEN STREET,
mim
ROCK DRILLS
Air Compressors, Pneumatic Tools, Coal Cutters,
STONE CHANNELING MACHINES
COMPLETE MINING. TUNNELING AND QUARRYING PLANTS.
STRt
KALGOORLIE.
Pneumatic Tool Beit.
Imperial Riveters.
Imperial Piston Drills.
Imperial Holders-on.
Imperial Chipping and
Caulking Hammers.
Complete Stocks* etc., kept, in
Australia.
(SYDNEY) LIMITED, 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Electrical Engineers and Contractors.
Large Stocks of
MOTORS, DYNAMOS, CABLES,
■JUNTO
ELECTRICAL ACCESSORIES.
I
fils
w
MASS.
" -v.-
Blowers, Cone Wheel?, Disc Fans, Hand Blowers, High Pressure Blowers,
Monogram Fans, Planing Mill Exhausters, Propeller Fans,
Steel Pressure Blowers, Special Fans.
LARGE STOCKS CARRIED. WRITE FOR CATALOGUES and PRICES.
'*>4l a'/ittJ-X. »•••••:■*••■
74
&§■ |
STREET, SYDNEY.
Engineers
Merchants,
WELL AND ARTESIAN BORERS.
We are the Agents of the World-famed
KEYSTONE DRILLER CO.
SEND FOR
CATALOGUES.
Our PORTABLE and TRACTION DRILLS, for Well Boring, Coal and
Mineral Testing, have been successful everywhere.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George Street, Sydney ; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
